

se J°ur
gr ocer for
voooo aaxiYH S.A.2M:
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydnby.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best’ Ale or^Porter. Lanont.
ondon &
mencan
■■iiiiiH
\
they the Largest Tailors in the Colonies ? Because they are the biggest Buyers and Importers of any Retail Firm
South of the Line, and, in consequence, can give value unequalled in Australia.
THE FOLLOWING NEW SPRING GOODS HAVE JUST ARRIVED
pv ZEALAND TWEEDS, made expressly to our own Designs
ALSO,
Scotch HOMESPUNS and the New SNOW-FLAKE TWEEDS,
k IMPORTED DIRECT FROM Messrs. HIRD & CO. and OTHER MANUFACTURERS.
e Patterns or call and see our Black Corkscrew for Walking Coats, admitted
oy all Manufacturers represented here to be the best value they have ever seen.
e rfect Fit Guaranteed or Money Returned.
ONLY BRANCH AT PRESENT IN SYDNEY:
er of Sydney Arcade aid George Street;
ALSO AT
jj 7 and 99 BOURKE STREET, North Side;
j; 6 BOURSE STREET, South Side;
Earner EASTERN MARKET, BOURKE STREET;
And 84 LONSDALE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
A. W. EERNE.
norman Mclennan.
J. H. BAIRSTOW.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.,
ardman Bros.
ANUFACTURERS
sssesm
%
GO NiTißwCjliG It S Eh
6mc€lfACTof7Y. Ctf>B& & &001?
/CoarrsS*
'fount
ittrmfts
€sn>
/eye
Waverley Hotel,
COLLINS-PLAOK, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
% vlirt to Visitors, Cnlslne Perfect, Private Sitting Booms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 613
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
TOBAC
Ml
m
II
m
in
DiXSOPSONS
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Brittinbeeg & 0 0.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clabenoe Stbebt, Wynyabd Squabb.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings,
MONUME N T £
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNING n AM,
MARGARET STREET. WYNYARD SQUARE. SYDNEY
MASON BBOTHEBB,
LIMITED,
808 to 269 Kent-stareet,
Sydney,
Bure always In STOCK (or
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BOYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents (or
JOHN WALKER and EONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'B
Cognac.
J. T. GAYBNS
Schnapps and Geneva,
A t ' MELVIN and BOMBS
Sdlnbnrph Pale Ale.
PAIN
SoH.TON'3 PAIN PAINX
CUBES Aki PAIN*
The beeti known remedy (or RHEUMATISM
fEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, fco.
end taken internally cures DIARRHOEA
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all. other
Internal aches and pains.
■jff 1 »oi4 BverjrriSigtP
mm tm< . ■
KVttDlflfOK, NLt PMPRIETOB.
►WB*Sr® SYDKJJVf
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
•Sice.
Business Announcements.
pATENT DIRECT ACTING
mmrnm pumps,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc,, etc.
Over Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
manufactured by tbe Wcstingbouse Brake
Company (limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMEAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
T> M. KILBY
(late of the Deteotive Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
13 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Abaoonder* and wife deiertera traced, and all kindi ot
aonfidentlal lnquirle* Initltuted. Evidence obtained in
dlvoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary caiei, for the legal pro-
feaiion and other*. Oopie* of will*, certificate* of blrtb,
Marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bent* and debt* collected. From R. M. K.'» long experience
in the Deteotive Foroe of New South Wale*, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and eitabliahed agencies in all part* of the
globe, he i* in a poiition to oonduot all lnquirle* with caution,
expedition and itrloteit leorrcy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to al| bnaine** entrnited to hi* care.
CDCC PRESCRIPTIONS are bo
rnu be found In the "LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, fee. A oopy of this
book will be Bent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps, Address—
& WARD ft; CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
W E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE HAIR.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
caxTHJHiisrei—A.isriD l
Millar, carter and 00.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agenoies throughout Queensland,
i 507EEE1GN BEHEST
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic'
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when ono
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM'S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give inßtant Relief and Cure In a few days !
The Australian Remedy. No ohange In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 6b., and 10a.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be Been. Admitted by the Medioal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georgo-etreet, only.
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BEOS., BIGG & GO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
© .
; -v V •f
i'-r
s
IRONMONGERS
o
o
*
H
<b
•« I' ■!
aracsuLusm
ttartK’ during mauMno, Isbwftoa Wton taataß&lAtifii
KIL.SOTRO-FUA.TKD WMtK, COTUKKT, TOOUS,
«AS COOKING STOVKS i—LKONIS FHKTCHKR’S. JBANB fc WALKKR’B,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MAOHINKS, fco., fco.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! _ „
AGAINST ALL RISK® 1
BY TAKING
KRUSE'S FLUID
Gools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
ii ot f
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OT#
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c„ accompanying each bott e ‘
TAKE ONLY” KEIJSI^
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. e {
—lOl
- 1 $ r
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BB^^^
'
5*
jXcstm* on Scalp.
A POSmVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
BIROM
&r
ip
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
jT\ISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
iLr tiona, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Seathsomo Sores, and every species of Itching,
Qealy, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
HStie Diseases of the Blood„Skln, and Scalp, with
Hcsss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Obtioura Rx solvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Maternally, and Cctioura and Cuticitra Soap, the
Qffeat Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
H telling and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers*, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Sftehing Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
Ca both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
glth Outioura Soap and a single application of
®»mou»a, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
tMly, with three doses of Outioura Resolvent,
'Cfill speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Oaalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
t M Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
D*lvxnt. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
tropsat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
9e? years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
bare been obliged to shun public places by reason
af my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
Qlslans; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
M relief until 1 used the Outioura Remedies,
Which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
htek, " How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Australian Consignees,
B. Towns h Co., Hew South Wales.
/WTIOURA RESOLVES;
O fler, Diuretic, and Aperient,? !**nd rfs®
and Perapiration of all
Element*, and thua remove* in®, e ooQ° v \^'a
it cure* »peedlly, permanently, *® .
Cuticura, the Gmsat oki^/^v»
Jelly for external u«e), instantly
Inflammation, clear* the Skin an®
Sore*, and Dandruff, destroy* I' e " (0 2 V
heal* Ulcer*, Bores r «jod
•tore* the Hair, an/ t^ej
Cuticura Soap., an exqui*!®* aggSb
nH r Pni)*t TtAnnlalfa nr«Hared If zlte.ll
and Toilet Requisite, prepared 'l e f > ‘
indi*pen*able in treating Bkin P i0 t >
mor*, Skin Blemishes, Prickly
bum, and Rough, Chapped, or©
onVf -° i 0
Cutlcnra Remedies * r ® t P^ e fr®*®, 0 r jL,
Purifier* and Skin jjigJJ, 0*
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any
table poison whatsoever. tIJ
pure by the Analytical Chenal*
Ma**achu*ett».
For Sale by all retail c^ m rfg[H» D .%e
druggist* throughout Australia > \ o t, “ftp
Zealand. Guticuka, 60 cent* P®‘ 9
$1.00; Qutiotoa Soap, 25 ®®““k*o Ob' 9
r»r. i c . rimarnTTiA
ino Soap, 16 cent*; Cotiouaa
per bottle.
PllFilUH) * T
Potter Drag A Chemical O®"
FALLON S GEORGE HOTEL,
THE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and
spare no pains to make the oomfort of visitors his special study. ‘ ' —“
Hall. Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables
promptly attended to.
; , GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXES.
J. J. FALLON,
ptaP


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—Ho. 447.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1888.
Price, 6d.
A Great Financier: “Little Mirams.”


NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—ivhich you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.”
‘Proprietors i bulletin newspaper CO.,
( Limited,
I
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... fU 0
Half-yearly 0 13 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications vnll be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ive
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1888.
The Pagoda and the Pawnshop.
An article directed against the Jews, and
drawing a comparison between the Israelite
and the Chinaman greatly to the former’s
disadvantage recently appeared in a Mel-
bourne journal, and has since been re-
printed with mora or less comment
by the Australian press in general. The
writer, M. J. OF as hell, accuses the
Jew of shirking all dangerous, laborious,
and difficult work, and of subsisting in
luxury as a mere parasite on the labour of
others, whilst the Cbinaman, no matter how
undesirable he may be as a competitor
against white labour, does at least engage in
work of a productive character, and adds
somewhat to the general stock. The greatest
complaint against the Celestial is that he
works too hard for the wage he receives.
The Jew is accused of charging too much for
the favour of a loan. One does more for
the price than he should. The other does
nothing, and battens on the gold he receives
for goading men into the Insolvency Court.
If the Chinese must go, says Mr. O’Earrell
in effect, what are you going to do about the
Jew, who Is a vampire and not a colonist ? If
the pagoda and the yellow dragon are a curse
in the land, what of the pawnshop and the
three golden balls ?
• • *
In approaching this question we are met
on the threshold with a phalanx of splendid
names and magnificent achievements. The
Jew of history is a grand and august figure.
He and his Arab kinsmen have given the
world a belief in a God, majestic, terrible,
and abstract. Christianity is but the
offspring of the awful and gloomy mono-
theism that forms the basis alike of the
belief of Jew and of Moslem, and true to
our Western modes of thought we have
vitiated the ideal of the one God of Israel
into the equilateral triangle of dogma upon
the three angles of which we place the Holy
Trinity. In the Bible the Jews have given
us a literature which has dominated for cen-
turies the life of Christendom—a literature
which in the opinion of critics ranks with,
though after, Homer, Shakespeare, Milton,
and Dante. Much of our social usage,
our laws, our customs, and our intellectual
vitality we derive from the prophets of
Jerusalem and the sweet singers of Israel.
Most of the ancient history a large percent-
age of us are conversant with is Jewish
history, and the Christ whom we have for
ages revered as the Son of God was a child
of the-tribe of Judah. In the scroll of
modern history the names of great J ews are
constantly recurring. In art, in literature,
in music, from the days of Moses to those of
Maimonides, from Maccab.-eus to Heine,
from Mendez to Disraeli, the Jew i=» ever
to the fore. Andre Massena, whom the
great Napoleon called “ The spoilt child of
Victory ” was a Jew. Soult is claimed as a
compatriot by the persecuted children of
Abraham. Benedict Spinoza, the great
philosopher, was an excommunicated Jew.
Lassalle, the great Socialist, was a Jew.
So was Neander. The musicians Meyer-
beer, Halevy, and Mendelssohn, and his no
less famous father, were Jews. Says Dis-
raeli, in an eloquent passage in * • Con-
ingsby ”
“ The first Jesuits were Jews ; that mysterious Russian
diplomacy which so alarms Western Hurops is organised
and principally carried on by Jews ; that mighty revolu-
tion which is at this moment preparing in Germany, and
which will be, in fact, a second and greater Reformation,
and of whioh so little is as yet known in England, is
entirely developing under the auspices of Jews, who
almost monopolise the professorial chairs of Germany.
. . . Neander, the founder of spiritual Christianity,
and who is Regius Pro'essor of Divinity in the University
of Berlin, is a Jew. Bexarv, equally famous, and in the
same University, is a Je»'. Weiil, tire Arabio Professor
of Heidelberg, is a Jew.”
9 9 •
Throughout the history of the world the
Jews have played an important part. They
are everywhere, and everywhere as an alien.
From the vanishing vistas of the past come
strange sounds as of psalteries and timbrels —
“ the psalms of Israel, the voice of Princess
Sa bbath, sounding across the remote waters
of Babylon.” A glance arear and are seen
the weird rhythmic Orient movements of
Herodias, “ the dark -Jewess like a palm of
the oasis, and with all the fragrance of the
East between her breasts.” The Jew of
history is grand, austere, and mysterious.
His voice is the voice of God crying in the
wilderness. Heine well phrases his emotion
when gazing, from what appeared “the
vulgar Pisgah of his day, behind on an
Eden that was for ever closed, before on a
promised land he should never enter.” But
the Jew of history is a figure belonging ex-
clusively to history. Ho has slight relation-
ship to the Jew of to day, wiili all the vulgar
attributes of the golden spheres, which, like
the fabled fruit ot Dead Sea fame, are hollow
and delusive, and the visionary percentages
which climb, according to the necessity of
the Christian borrower, into the region of
three figures.
* # *
The Jew is the nomad of humanity. He
is everywhere, and wanders into regions into
which Eugene Sue’s creation never pene-
trated, even in the pages of romance.
Gonzani found a colony of Jews settled in
China, in the year 1704. De Pavia made
a like discovery in Cochin China in
1686. In the seventeenth century they had
settled at Cayenne. To-day the Jew is to
be found throughout the world, from the
North Cape to Madagascar, from Kamtschat-
ka to Melbourne. He follows in the vake
of those who must borrow, and lie carries
with him from the Pole to the Equat >r that
money-changer’s desk at which old-time
Matthew sat. He is the reaper of that
which he has not sown —the garnerer of that
which he has never planted. He seldom
now marches in the van of Progress. “The
Jews,” says Disraeli, “ are essentially
Tories
“ Toryism, indeed, is but copied from the mighty pro-
totype which has fashioned Europe. And every genera-
tion they must become more powerful and mora dan-
gerous to the society whioh is hostile to them.”
This utterance, from a Jew, is a threat and a
forewarning to every young Democracy.
• » »
There are in truth two Jews, and each is a
type of his race. One died on Calvary to
save sinners ; the other sold his master for
thirty pieces of silver. The Jew seldom now
performs the part of a redeemer. L ke
Judas, he is too much occupied with the
care of the money-bag. It would seem that
when the golden calf was broken in pieces by
Moses each of the Israelites present took
away with him a section of the image to be a
god to him and to his children for ever. The
true glory of Israel, as Israel, is in her past.
In her warriors, her statesmen, her scholars,
artists, and her poets. The name of
Aquinas, the philosopher, will shine blighter
and longer than the names of Pasta and
Gnisi, who simply assisted in making
more sensuously luxurious the leisure
of the wealthy. Lassalle, the Socialist,
is a grander and more enduring figure
in the world’s history than Disraeli,
the ambitious adventurer and self-seeking
diplomat. The persecuted Israelites who
fell before the sword of Titus are more
blessed in their death than the money-
lenders of the present in their ignoble and
ostentatious luxury. The shekinah has dis-
appeared with the ark and its place has been
usurped by the three golden balls that pen-
dulate above the cash-box of the usurer.
* * *
There are, according to a recent estimate,
only 7,700,000 Jews in the world, and
7,000,000 of these keep a pawnshop. They
have developed an old proclivity into a
science and erected into a fine art a practice
ancient Moses sought to punish by a law.
Yet they are no worse than many of the
Christians amongst whom they sojourn.
Chadband Lapstone is not a whit more
merciful than Marlowe’s Barabas, the
wealthy “Jew of Malta,” or the Siiylock of
Shakespeare’s later play. The spirit of
the present age is the worship of gold, and
Jew and Christian grovel before the metal
deity with equal humility. The Jew is only
an intensification of the evil of the time.
He feeds on the necessity of the wretches
whom the play of Free Competition throws
into his power. Admitted that the Jew is
dangerous to a democratic state, that he is
a parasite upon the labours of humanity, the
same change in the present existence of
things which would abrogate the claims of
Capital,, and clip the alleged rights of the
wealthy idler to idle in luxury, would meet
the case of the bond-holder who pressed his
usurious claim on those that Want had given
him power to bind in the meshes of his
golden net.
* • #
On either hand are we met by an evil.
On the one side, the Pagoda is depriving us
of the right to work ; the Chinaman, whose
life is narrow and whose wants are few, who
is servile, obsequious, and penurious, bids
against us in the labour mart and takes the
bread from out our children’s mouths. On
the other side yawns wide open to the child
of want the pawnshop which, kept by
either Jew or Christian, invites us to relieve
necessity by parting with the hoarded trifles
of a prosperous past. Above, in imagina-
tion, we can read across the cursed doorway
the lines inscribed by Dante on Hell’s black
portals. “Abandon hope,” indeed, for
never again will we call that our own upon
which the finger of the fat broker has fallen.
And they wax gross and greasy and drive
fine horses, live in sumptuous houses, eat
their fill, and sleep without a single night’s
bad dream. Is this confined to the Jew
alone, think you 1 Is not Capital one and
indivisible the world wide over ? Is not the
speculator who ruins whole families in a
lucky deal in stocks as bad in effect and in
reality as all the tribe of Benjamin with all
their bonds ? In this we are reminded of
that queen before whom a Rabbi and a
Capuchin argued a point of doctrine. It was
the case of Judaism versus Christianity.
When they had finished, the king asked his
consort which was in the right. She replied
that she could not say, but did not like the
smell of either the disputants.
* • •
For so small a proportion of the earth’s
population the Jews make a brave show.
They number not quite seven millions and
three-fourths, yet they are recognised every-
where as an enemy. Each Israelite has a
sign, and they “ advance” with the march
of the interest-market. They dress well and
eat well, and their houses are the best in the
street. They live apart and worship apart.
They are a peculiar people, and refuse to
mingle with the nation upon which they live.
They marry only the daughters of Zion, and
will have nothing to do with the barbarian
outsider save to charge him exorbitant in-
terest on undoubted security Because they
are separate and apart they are singled cut
for reprobation and attack. Were they to
intermarry and 1 1 change their names, were
they to obliterate every trace of the Hebrew
from out our midst would exorbitant interest
disappear, would the usurer not wax fat ?
Yea ! For this is the age of the Gulden
Calf, and the Jew worships it as a race. The
Christian worships it as a caste. Destroy
the Jew ! Prohibit his settlement in our
midst! A T ery good ! Destroy first luxury,
wasteful riot, and pampered idlers. The
eagles gather where the carcase is, and the
Jew follows in the train of those who make
food for him in the fierce battle between the
Haves and the Have-nots. Half the outcry
against Israel is from the voice of the alleged
Christian financier who recognises in Mel-
chtsedek a rival wish an aptsr hand. Let
the Jew throw away the three golden balls
that dangle outside his pawnshop, and give
to the community that bright intellect
and ready wit which have made him
famous in history, and we shall then
ask him to aid us in ejecting the
usurer who never heard of Babylon and
whose tears fell—if they fell at all—in other
places than the Gate of Lamentation. The
usurer’s calling is an anti-democratic—nay,
anti-human—calling. It is retrogression, a
subversion of all the triumphs of civilisation,
a destruction of human brotherhood, a
bar to progress, a return to the hideous
grinding and preying of force against force,
the method of a pitiless Nature, and, be the
usurer what he may, of whatsoever race or
creed, he is an enemy to his kind and a
perpetual menace to man. Candour, how-
ever, compels us to admit that his name is
as often Muggins as Moses.
•
The Anti-Chinese movement in Australia
is not so much a racial as a moral and
political-economical movement. Australia
objects to the Chinaman because Democracy
considers men of more importance than mer-
chants. The well-being of a people comes
before the making of profits. The ejectment
o' the Chinese from this Continent is a So-
cialistic movement. A crusade against the
Jews on the lines set forth by the article we
are now noticing is not so much of a
racial or a creedal as of a Socialistic charac-
ter. That the typical Jew is a Jew by
religion, that he is Semitic by origin matter
nothing. He is a parasite. This is good
ground in the cause of Social Democracy.
On this ground, though, not the Jew alone,
but hordes upon hordes of greasy Christians
must relax their grasp on their levies on
humanity. We are agreeable to the reform,
but -Justice demands that upon its being put
in practice it must deal with parasites be-
cause they are parasites—not because they
are Jews.
The attempt of Miss Yon Finkelstein to white-
wash the character of that avaricious old rascal,
Jacob, is highly reminiscent of Froude’s beauti-
fully-toned picture of a kindred character, Henry
VIII., which may be said to have founded the
paradoxical school of history. “ A school which,”
says Justin M'Carthy, “sets itself to discover
that some great scoundrel had all the virtues for
which the world had never before given him credit,
and none of these.-vices which it had always been
content to recognise as his undoubted possession.”
What we nexb expect to hear is an elaborate
eulogy of Judas Iscariot, Esq. '
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Strikes.
Even in this enlightened age many presumably-
intelligent and well-informed persons are nob
backward in expressing the opinion that strikes as
a weapon in the hands of labour against the well-
drilled phalanx of monopoly are criminal and
contrary to the principles by which society is
governed. That combinations exist in the ranks
of the employers is never taken into considera-
tion ; even if it were their meetings to fix the
rate of wages and the selling price of goods would
never be declared criminal, but merely “ necessary
for the protection of capital.” It seems never to
be considered that men employed in other
occupations combine to keep out interlopers
and maintain the price of their labour.
That doctors and barristers form guilds for their
own protection is never spoken of in terms of dis-
praise, while the trades unionism of the labourer
is unsparingly denounced. The worker is con-
tinually preached at. He is told on all sides that
strikes simply waste time and money, and are not
only hurtful bo those directly engaged in them,
but ruinous to the country where they occur. The
employer, who also has the power to end the
struggle, is never lectured; it is presumed that he
must be in the right. None of these sapient ad-
visers are found telling litigants that law-
suits are “ simply a waste of time and
money,” and that, preparatory to engaging
in them they had much better come to some pri-
vate agreement before attempting to gain what is
too often a very barren victory. Combinations of
the worker are the only means by which he can
hope to hold his own in a very unequal conflict,
the strike is his or)ly method of asserting his
claim to higher wages or humane consideration.
The law does not in any way protect him against
the arbitrary treatment of employers; he has no
court of appeal where his claims will be heard,
and, therefore, he is bound to defend himself in
the only way that at present is afforded to him.
Surely if one man has the right to say that he
cannot afford to work at a certain rate
of pay, a thousand men in combination
have a precisely similar right. The law acknow-
ledges the right: so do all people with clear heads
and warm hearts; only those of a petrified charac-
ter who linger among us as if to mark the ad-
vances made in liberality have objections to offer.
“ The world moves,” no doubt, but some folks
stand still in spite of it. These disputes between
capital and labour are bound to occur until the
worker dismisses his employers and trades directly
with consumers, freed from the burthen of middle-
men and sap-sucking parasites.
4. .
The Drivel of our Fathers.
Dear Bulletin, —In Melbourne, the other clay, I
was induced to attend a meeting at which the
necessity of federating with England was the sub-
ject under discussion. The principal speaker of
the evening was a freshly-caught Englishman, who
frankly declared that Australia must federate
whether she liked it or not; that the object of all
statesmanship was the greatest good of the
greatest number, and that, as the Englishmen
were the greatest number, the question of Federa-
tion must be settled solely with a view to the in-
terests of England, while those of Australia should
not be considered at all. I suppose that this is
the view entertained by most English Federa-
tionists, but only a fresh-caught specimen would
be likely to avow it so openly. For my own part,
however, I rather like the theory. The bulk
of the population of the British Empire
is esntred in India; in fact, Great Britain
and Ireland, the West Indies, the vast
expanses of the Canadian Dominion and
the Australasian settlements, and the other
fragments, too numerous to mention, which make
up the realm on which the sun is too tired to set,
only contain at most one-sixth of the population
which enjoys the inestimable blessings of British
sovereignty, while India represents the other five-
sixths of Her Majesty’s admiring subjects. Con-
sequently the interests of Britain are nowhere at
all compared to those of India, and when Britain
realises the sublime truth of her own theory, and
an Asiatic monarch reigns in London with a
nigger Parliament to advise him, the chances are
that Australia will also recognise the beauty and
holiness of self-sacrifice, and will swap Gillies
for an imported premier from the banks of the
Ganges. The orator from Spitalfields concluded
with an eloquent blast about our fatherland, but
he didn’t explain what that had to do with the
case. For my own part I think this gag is getting
too old to impose on anybody. England may be
our fatherland, but the present generation of Eng-
lishmen are not our fathers. They are dead
long since, and the men who want to boss
us are our nephews and uncles, and our
second cousins twice removed, and our
aunts’ descendants by a former marriage,
and all sorts of distant collateral relations who are
so far removed from the original stock that we
have as much claim to rank as their fathers as
they to call themselves ours We can’t be bossed
by our fathers, for they are dead long since, and
we can’t be bossed by our fatherland, for that, de-
spite all the drivel that has been wasted upon it,
is merely an inert, middle-sized chunk of dirt
planted in the North Sea, and is as inanimate as
the common ordinary dust of which other coun-
tries—about which the Englishman doesn’t drivel
—are constructed. Imperial Federation is only a
scheme by which Australia is to be bossed by its
uncles’ grandsons, and the British orators who
scream loudest about the reverence which Aus-
tralia owes to the land of her fathers are beardless
youths who are not old enough to be fathers to
anybody, and whose dignity is based chiefly on
the fact that they are just a Jittle too venerable to
be spanked. Out of such unpromising materials
are Statesmen constructed. —Yours, &c., J. A.
♦
Concerning the Glasses of Kiim.
In Sydney, New South Wales, you can run a
“ great ” business, borrow money wholesale
from everybody you know and never pay it back,
go insolvent three or four times, spend your coin
on works of art while those who purvey the neces-
saries of life for you go unpaid, wrong your own
employes out of their just earnings, mortgage
to man number two the land you have already
sold to man number one, give cheques bearing
private marks for the direction of your banker—
but you mustn’t drink two glasses of rum valued
sixpence and afterwards refuse to pay the publi-
can, or you will, like the Brothers Connors, a day
or two ago, be sentenced to one month’s gaol, with
hard labour, and the devil take you for a fool.
Nothing is more subversive of the public good in
this matter than the protection of the publican
by law. While the most Draconian measures
are taken by the police to prevent a man
from getting a license be is allowed—judg-
ing by the case of the Connors Brothers—to
recover for debt like any legitimate tradesman.


Pawnbrokers and publicans —we now speak of the
publican who lives exclusively by the exchange of
mere grog for money, as most grog-sellers do —are
social parasites who feed on the vice and the neces-
sity of the depraved and the disheartened, and
who should no more be put on the same plane
with the business people who deal in the genuine
exchanges of commerce than Lucifer should be
feted at the same board with Gabriel. All legis-
lation should be against drink and drinking habits,
and to imprison a man for a liquor-debt is too
much like awarding a burglar damages for having
his head broken in the pursuit of his midnight
calling. No publican should have his trade in
human misery protected— and the decent publican
doesn’t want it. Should a reputable hotel-keeper
give a drink to a man unable or unwilling to pay
for it—and it is a thing that seldom happens—he
generally allows the man to go. It is one of the
risks of his business, and he is perfectly willing to
stand them and to lump the results. The publi-
can’s trade is a noxious trade, with many risks
and large profits, and, the security being small,
the interest is correspondingly high. If the pub-
lican is to be permitted to send people to gaol who
have not paid for drinks, we shall expect to see
tipple sold at lid. a glass instead of 3d , with a
corresponding reduction on everything alcoholic
all round.
4.
.lack Kobcrtsoiilsiu.
Dear Bulletin, —I am pleased to notice that you
put a proper value on the pitiful chatterings to
which poor old Jack Robertson recently gave
vent when interviewed by a Melbourne reporter.
That any Australian journalist should regard this
venerable blatherskite as an exponent or repre-
sentative of Australian sentiment is not only a
huge joke but a national calamity. The man has
seen his day ; he is a thing of the past, and he is
as foreign to Australian aspirations and Aus-
tralian thought and sentiment as a naked nigger
from the wilds of Queensland. Among native-
born Australians there is not and there never was
any such thing as national prejudice or ill-will;
yet this is precisely the kind of dissention and
prejudice which old Jack Robertson has spent a
lifetime vainly striving to awaken and cultivate.
And even now in his last years he must make a
final, frenzied effort to foist upon us all his hate-
ful bastard. Old Jack belongs to a class of
peculiarly New South Wales politicians which,
fortunately for the advancement and welfare of
Australia, is rapidly becoming extinct. Taking
into consideration what the man once was,
I say this with pain and horror, but I say it with
truth. If Jack Robertsonism were rampant what
would Australia come to ? You know perfectly
well that Australians when left to themselves re-
cognise no distinctions either in religion or place
of birth. It is only chattering imbecile “ Struld-
brugs ” of the Jack Robertson type that at-
tempt to set up or recognise such distinctions.
What annoys one most is that the wretched
imported old fossils who set up such distinc-
tions, or pretend that they exist, seem unable to
realise the contempt and pity with which all
genuine Australians regard them. However, it is
consoling to know that Jack Robertsonism is as
much behind modern Australian sentiment as the
bullock-dray is behind the express train or the
blackfellow’s bark-canoe behind the fastest of
steam-boats, and it is painful to think that the
poor old man himself seems absolutely unaware of
the fact. Yours, H. J. M'Oooey.
“ Russia llie Indestructible.”
Editor Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazette, has
been on a visit to Russia, and has written so en-
thusiastically of the potentialities of that nation
that some of the London papers accuse him of
being in the pay of the Czar. Listen to Stead :
“Russia is indestructible. You may singe the Em-
peror of Russia’s beard at Sebastopol and at the Baltic,
but there is but the smell of burirng for a moment in the
air, which the spring wind will carry away, while the
Emperor lives on. You may even carve a red, corse-
paven way, like Napoleon, to the heart of Russia, and
just as the returning wave obliterates your footprints in
the sand, so the t.dc of Russian life will silently sweep
away all ve3tige of your victories, f avc perhaps where, as
in the Temple of our Saviour at Moscow, the Russian him-
self erects a pious trophy on the scene of bis.deliverance,
whose glittering cupolas flame resplendent in the noon-
day sun. Compared with other States, Russia is as a raft
to a ship. You may wreck one, you cannot sink the
other. The innumerable village republics which, united,
make up the Empire of the Tzars, contain in every
commune the heart and the head of Russia.
Above all, the Russian cradle is never empty. Compared
with this all other facts are as if they were not. On the
31st December there will be at least a million more mortals
lisping Russian than there were on the Ist of January.
From a million to a million and a quarter is the annual
excess of Russian births over Russian deaths. There are
now nearly ten million more Russians in the world than
there were when the present reign began. Against that
increase all allies will fight in vain. That is the granite
fact which dominates the situation. When Lord Elgin
was endeavouring to browbeat the mandarins in 1860 by
threats of what the Western nations would do if the
Emperor was obdurate, General Ignatikit was much
amused by the reply of a mandarin to the British repre-
sentative. ‘ How many soldiers,’ he asked, ‘ will the
Western Powers send to China?' ‘Oh,’ slid Lord
Elgin, with heroic disregard of the possibilities
of transport, ‘ we will send 100,000 men.’ ‘ All
right,’ said the mandarin, ‘suppose they come, and
each kills 20 Chinamen, what difference will it make ?
Tvto millions or three millions more or less ; it is but as
a bucket out of the sea, a handful of sand from the sea-
shore, compared with the 300,000,000 that will remain.’
Whatever «e do, Russia will remain, and Russians will
continue to inhabit the whole of Northern Asia and Eastern
Europe. That we cannot prevent, though we bleed our-
selves like veal in endeavouring to slaughter them into
impotence, and though we double our National Debt in
the effort to ruin the Tzar. What we can do is this. We
can hammer this great human mass, as Napoleon ham-
mered Prussia, into a really formidable weapon. We can
give a force and a direction to this great glacier of
humanity which it would otherwise never have acquired,
and convert 200.000,000 of men who might have been
friends and oust imers into bitter, revengeful, and deter-
mined foes.”
“ Wc.”
The London Times never learns anything and
seldom remembers anything. The solemn old
threepenn’orth is as pompous to-day as it was 30
years ago when it demonstrated that the Russians
must capture Silistria, and then stood up and
cursed because the Turks declined to pay any at-
tention to its leaden columns of advice, and held
out after they had been shown conclusively that
they couldn’t hold out even if they wanted to.
The TrME.s is a great Hi-Ham worked by steam ;
it is the embodiment of the spirit that finds ex-
pression in a big “ We it is the Pumblechook
of politics and its mission is to take the sass out
of Providence and to give valuable hints to the
Lord. The anti-Chinese legislation of British
Columbia and New South Wales has lately roused
this wooden image to new excitement, and it rises
and puts its foot down with a smash :
“Infact.no British Legislature, not the Imperial Par-
liament itself, has the right to pass Acts such as that of
British Columbia here referred to, or that which Sir
Henry Parkes introduced the other day into the New
Smth Wales Legislature, but has since apparently
dropped. They are breaches of our treaties vith China ;
if we wish to alter these treaties in any respect there is
one way, and one ODly, of doing so—viz., by negotiations
between the two parties to them.”
“We,” of course, is understood to be England
and the Times, but as the Times expects England
to follow its instructions in everything the first
half of the pronoun may as well be left out.
“ We,” in fact, is the Times alone, and this three-
penny us is the only individual who is to have any
say in the Chinese question in Australia. The
Australian intellect is supposed by the Times to
be dressed in the left-off public opinions of Eng-
land, and if they are too short in the legs and too
tight in the collar it must be pared down to fit
them. The aged British Thunderer will drift
along for 30 years before it fully understands that
Australia has ideas of its own—it has spent 30
years already in trying to realise that the Russians
did not take Silistria in ’54 after it had stated dis-
tinctly that they couldn’t help doing so ; and by
the time it begins to awake events will have ad-
vanced so far beyond the horizon of its brain that
it will only sit down and gasp. Even the bush
journalist of Australia —the litterateur whose
clothes are hitched up with string and who spreads
his ideas by means of a press tied together with
old rope—has a more distinct idea that the world
moves than the leaders of British Toryism, and
unless the string and the rope give way his slangy
diction will have more ultimate effect on the
destinies of the human race than the pompous
phrases of the “ horgan ” which never by any
chance leads in the march of progress, but is
dragged reluctantly behind like an overfed dog at
the end of a string.
The London Spectator is troubled about what
it regards as the probable success of M. Pasteur’s
crusade against rabbits in Australia. It appre-
hends an analogous system of warfare when
armies of men are pitted against one another.
This apprehension is not without foundation, but
it is not correct to imply that it has ibs birbli in
the work of Pasteur. Before the French chemist
was heard of the thought was a living one. While
the taking of life on the battle field is sanctioned
the means to the end will be always a matter of
opinion. Sir Jeffrey Amherst, Commander-in-
Chief during the war with the Indian Border
Tribes, directed that smallpox should be com-
municated to the enemy, and infected blankets were
accordingly left where the Indians would get
them. Pasteur’s experiments may bring the'
subject more vividly before the public mind, but
it was always there, and will always be there
while shooting and burning are P gitimate phases
of civilisation.
According to a “ Voice from Bulli ” in one of the
daily papers, “the noble manner in which the
wealthy of the colonies sought to meet the need
of the Bulli widows and orphans shows that they
are not slow to consider the just claims of those
upon whom their wealth depends, and I believe
that more will always be gained when proper
respect is shown by the servant to the master, ac-
cording to God’s own Word, than ever has been
by unwarrantable threats and unjust pressure.”
This ungrammatical and hysterical falsetto
“ Voice ” evidently imagines that the Bulli Fuad
was subscribed chiefly by capitalists and coalmim-
owners, while, as a matter of fact, all classes in the
community put their hands in their pockets; the giv-
ings of the wage-earners being in proportion to their
capabilities enormously larger than those of oth( r
individuals. The “V< ice”considersapparently that
threats and pressure when used by employers are
perfectly justifiable, while coming from the side
of labour they are of necessity “ unwarrantable
and unjust.” No vermin-destroyer has yet been
discovered of sufficient potency to rid us of the
tyrant and his sycophantic excusers.
“ Two officials of the New South Wales Court at
Melbourne Exhibition have been detected pocket-
ing tinned meat.” “ Taffy was a Welshman,
Taffy was a thief,” and that was why New South
Wales got her name, very likely. Isn’t it in the
eternal fitness of things that when people
are so dull and so thick-headed and imter.-
timental as to meet together for the purpose of
commemorating, not the anniversary of the inau-
guration of liberty and freedom under Responsible
Government, but the institution of an accursed
leg-iron tyranny, that they should go in for steal-
ing ? Why, certainly. Anyhow, we quite sym-
pathise with the New South Wales official who
pockets meat at the First Fleet Centennial. Just
about the first thing Governor Phillii I—fc 1 —fc r whom
Premier Parkes has ordered a statue —did when
he got ashore was to hang a boy of 15 years or so,
for stealing a pound of flour, and if a New
South Wales official can now pocket a pound of
meat without being hanged, it is a sign
that we are getting along in the path of
civilisation. It is all very fine to say that such
things needn’t be raked up now-a-days, and that
Australia should be permitted to proceed with its
unmeaning and washy imitation of the American
Centennial without any jibes or jeers; but that
contention simply means that we are to forget all
history and bury our heads in the sand. We
assert that the only New South Wales citizens
who are celebrating the convict Centennial
properly and fitly are the people who are pocketing
meat. And we repeat that the chief sign of real
advancement exhibited by New South Wales in
the year 1388 consists in the fact that whereas the
boy who stole flour a hundred years ago was
hanged, the fat official who pockets meat now is
not even suspended.
That O’Donnell v. the Times was merely a
bogus action appears pretty clear from passages in
the Lord Chief Justice’s summing-up. The old
gentleman, who would not be disposed to strain a
point in favour of the Parnellites, significantly
observed that “ motives had been suggested for
the action taken by Mr. O’Donnell ; vanity had
been mentioned, and a desire to stand before the
public in a prominent position, and others had
been alluded to. There were other motives which
actuated a man’s heart with regard to people with
whom he had been associated, but afterwards
separated from. But to bring forward the case
in that shape against persons with whom for many
years he was acting; to bring the action in a
shape which left these persons no opportunity to
defend themselves was a matter for the considera-
tion of the jury.” The jury had considered that
matter, and the result is well known. It may be
seen that the Lord Chief Justice ignored the
Times as being the defendant, and pointed out
that O’Donnell was really endeavouring to
bring discredit upon his old colleagues —
the Irish party. Previous to this he had
appealed to plaintiff’s counsel to accept
a nonsuit, saying, “you know my opinion
both of the law and of your duty, and if you will
go on you must go on.” Another quotation, and
we have done : “ He (Lord Chief Justice) quite
agreed that it would be a gross injustice to the
defendants, and a still grosser injustice to those
gentlemen (Parnell and others) who had been
named, who, for all he knew or cared as far as
that case was concerned, might be perfectly inno-
cent people, to be dragged into a case W'bero they
could not say a word in their own defence. He
was astonished that any man having any sense of
fairness should seek, for his own purposes, to try
the action in such a way.” These facts were not
mentioned in the Tory cablegrams announcing
O’Donnell’s discomfiture, and from which the
Tory journals of Australia drew such “ convincing
proofs ” of the Irish Party’s blood-stained wicked-
ness. Nor have any of those journals told the
plain truths of the case since the details came to
hand by mail How seldom do they tell plain
truths about anything !
♦
‘ ‘ Our Boys in England ” have got the Melbourne
Herald into a mess. Under that heading the
noisy little journal “barracked” most outrageously
for M ‘Donnell’s team so long as there was a suc-
cession of Australian triumphs to be magnified and
gloated over. When reverses came the Herald
critic nightly built up a splendid fabric of explan-
atory suppositions founded on false conclusions.
If our unfortunate boys went down it was invari-
ably owing to bad light, bad health, or bad luck.
As time went on the Herald said nothing about
defeats, but published a column of praise when-
ever a victory was cabled, said victory being
accepted as 'an indication that Our Boys
were again exhibiting true form after their
inexplicable performances of late &c, &c.
Tne first match against All-England was the
signal for another great boom, but when
it was immediately followed by a reverse the
cocktail journal found an entirely new excuse in a
mean insinuation that Australia’s champions had
all been drinking too much. And now, “Our
Boys in England ” have been just as meanly
thrown over altogether. The familiar heading
appears no more in the Herald, which has even
discontinued a regular publication of the results
of matches as they are played. The Sportsman,
so called, has lately followed a system of omitting
from its weekly list of cricket cablegrams (when
possible) those which showed Our Boys in an un-
favourable light. This is a miserable fact!
+
If it be admitted that the law arrests drunkards
chiefly in order to prevent them harming other
people or sustaining harm themselves, then the
policy which withdraws a being temporarily in-
sane from contact with the community, merely to
confine him closely in the company of a similarly
irresponsible individual, is clearly asinine, and
assuredly responsible for the life of one man at
present. How many men have been seriously and
permanently injured, how many have ultimately
died from the effects of injuries received while
pent up in watchhouse cells, it is impossible to
state. In order that no more lives may be lost in
a similar fashion, that no more “ horrible out-
rages ” may be perpetrated, it is absolutely im-
perative that either more cell accommodation shall
be provided or fewer intoxicated persons arrested.
Public decency, public safety, the tone of public
morality demand that the law shall not in
future afford individuals while under its pro-
tection chances for killing others, illegally
and unofficially, in order that the authorities
may seize the opportunity of slaying the
murderer, officially and legally in cold blood,
and with the avowed object of “ suppressing
crime.” The whole thing is a burlesque on
punishment—a complete travesty of judicialism.
It is calculated to bring the law into ridicule,
hatred, and contempt. The criminal law of New
South Waleß and the method of its administra-
tion are already a by-word of reproach and a blot
upon civilisation.
+
The appeal in the case of Hewart, now finally
condemned to death for killing his fellow-prisoner
in a Sydney police-cell, was not based on grounds
sufficiently logical or important to warrant a re-
vision of theoiiginal sentence, yet, nevertheless,
the execution of Hewart will be on the part of
the New South Wales Executive the gravest pos-
sible error. The man was admittedly drunk at
the time the revolting act was committed. The
jury who tried him recommended him to mercy,
and the public, from the very nature and circum-
stances of his alleged offence, hesitate to regard
h ; m as having been mentally responsible, and are,
therefore, by no means anxious to see him die the
death which all the civilised nations in whose
laws capital punishment is still retained award
only to the deliberate murderer; the evidence
trken at the trial is defective and insufficient;
there is no logical motive for the commission
of the offence; and Park, the wretched man upon
whom it was committed, was not himself in a con-
dition to testify reliably in the case Again, in
hanging Hewart no justification can be given to
the sole reasonable excuse advanced for the reten-
tion of capital punishment. In an extreme case
it might be admitted that hanging deterred pro-
spective criminals from the commission of crime.
How does that apply to Hewart ? His offence,
even were it absolutely proven, is an abnormal
one. The man capable of being influenced in the
same direction is the last man in the world whom
punishment of any kind would deter, for the ten-
dency to commit such an offence argues a diseased
brain. Crimes of a similar character are not
punished by death in Erance, Germany, Italy, or
even Russia. In Americ i, Hew art's act would
most assuredly be looked on as murder in the
second degree; even in England, The Bulletin
does not hesitate to say, the Home Secre-
tary, apart from any merciful recommenda-
tion by the jury, would prevent the exe-
cution of a man whose crime was, from the
standpoint of the natural man, absolutely irra-
tional. The execution of Hewart would be an act
carried out in the face of intelligent popular senti-
ment, in opposition to every humane feeling, and
in shameless ignorance of every principle of
psychology. The daily press of New South Wales
shirks all discussion of Hr wart’s case, possibly
on the ground that it is a specially dirty and
disgusting one. We remember that the outrage
was reported in many newspapers with needless
minuteness, and we would modestly suggest that
what is too dirty to discuss when a man’s neck is
in danger is too dirty to report merely in the
interests of commercial journalism.
Chief among those things which ought to be sent
to the boiling-down establishment and converted
into something useful (like soap) is the creature
signing “Pro Bono Publico ” to letters addressed
to The Editor. We have had our eye on this in-
dividual for many years past, and are in a position
to state that he, or she, is getting slowly and
steadily worse than ever. The very latest instance
of “Pro Bono Publico’s” hereditary madness
appears in a Melbourne paper, and is connected
with eggs. Our venerable tormentor writes that
the new Victorian Budget allows for a 10 per cent,
duty on imported eggs, which will “ cause eggs in
Victoria to become scarce and dear, and also place
a wholesome and nourishing food beyond the
reach of the poorer class.” Now, could the force
of drivel further go? If Victorians will per-
sist in importing eggs, instead of whacking the
local hens with a stick until they lay enough to
meet requirements—and if imported eggs are
taxed 10 per cent., which they will not be—what
then ? Imported eggs will cost an extra penny per
dozen, or thereabouts, and the poorer class who
have to abstain from a nourishing article of food
on that account are earnestly advised to strengthen
their constitutions with sardines or kidneys and
bacon. We belong to the poorer class ourself, but
this hypothetical tax will only place about one egg
in twelve beyond our reach, even if the worst
happens. We shall seek consolation in the fixed
belief that the other egg would have been a bad
’un if we’d found means to buy it.
There are over 80,000,000 sheep, cattle,
and horses in Australia.
Eighty-two thousand rabbits were destroyed
on one station in the Menindie district (N.S.W.)
last month.
Lord Carington describes Melbourne Ex-
hibition as “the world under a glass case.” Neat—
if original.
It has been found that steel mixed with
twenty-four per cent, of manganese becomes non-
magnetic.
“Yes,” said he, “I know I’m drunk, but
I’ll get over that; but you’re a d d fool, and
you’ll never get over that.”
Princes and priests are the only persons
on the continent of Europe, Italy excepted, who
cannot be compelled to accept a challenge to a
duel.
Fat old priest (beaming over a bottle of
wine and a plump roast goose) : “Every roast
goose is an example of the endless love God has
for man.”
The new wire gun at Shoeburyness has
thrown a five hundred-pound shell a distance of
twelve miles, the greatest distance ever covered
by a cannon ball.
Many a rich man is immensely interested
in genealogy until he goes back far enough to find
that his grandfather was sent out for “ taking a
rabbit ” or “ striking his officer.”
One Gunderson, a Christchurch, N.Z.,
mechanic, has invented an appliance that.indicates
when watchmen are not awake to their duties, but,
as it cannot stand a prolonged strain, it will not
apply to policemen.
The Times, though awarded costs, didn't
send in the bill to Mr. O’Donnell. The Times
gave its leading counsel 500 guineas on bis brief ;
O’Donnell s only barrister, a bright but hitherto
unknown junior, Mr. Ruegg, only got 15 guineas.
“What dowry does she bring you 1 ” asked
the notary when arranging the preliminaries to
the marriage of Paul Scarron and Francoise
d’ Aubignb. “ A pair of beautiful eyes, ” replied
the poet, “ a bust that is perfect, delicate hands,
and lovely arms, and a proud spirit. ” “And you
endow her with what ? ” “ Immortality. ”
Anewinflatedbustle,dulypatented, has just
come intouse, made with ablow-off and safety valve.
When the wearer sits down the wind escapes up
her spine, loosens her corset string and blows her
bangs into the most fashionable position. When
she stands up the action tightens the strings and
expands her bustle, whistles to her dog, and sticks
a pin into her drowsy escort.
“ lb’s all very fine,” said Mrs. Fitzboodle,
“for you men to talk about working hard, but
when you leave the shop you’ve done, while a
woman’s work is never done.” “Very true, my
dear, ” said her husband, as he airily tripped over
a broom and sat down violently in the dust pan,
“very true, but if we undertook a job, and the
work was never done, we’d go short on a Satur-
day. See ?”
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —Seeing in a late
issue of The Bulletin a letter signed “ Jim
Mullins,” stating that many Chinese were ar-
riving in the North of this colony, I write to give
the story a most emphatic denial. There is a
poll-tax of £lO per head in W.A., and there is no
direct communication with China. A steamer
arrives here every two months from Singapore
bringing not more than six to ten Chinese,
who find employment as gardeners or cooks in the
tropical portion of this colony. Yours truly,
West Australian, Fremantle, 13th Aug.
Dear Bulletin, —In regard to the present
threatened strike, I think one or two things are
entirely overlooked. All mineral wealth should
be the property of the State. The fuel of a nation
should never be made the means of creating a
gigantic monopoly. The coalfields of every country
should be worked by Government, and the profits
—after giving the miners a bonus besides a fair
wage—should be devoted to the relief of the in-
digent of that country. Now, in NS. W. there is
much silly jabber about the “ rights of capital.”
As well talk about the rights of anything—fire to
burn people caged up in a theatre, or water to
drown them in a foundering ship. Capital has no
rights which would inflict public wrong. Capital
has, in fact, nothing, unless the community con-
fers it. In this, indeed, there’s nothing good or
ill, but thinking makes it so. I would propose, in
all such great enterprises as coal-mining, that the
State, and not the individual, should be entrusted
with their development. The matter is one of
public anti not of private concern, and the conse-
quences are international. Coal is something
which, under modern conditions of civilised life,
can no more be done without than air, fire, or
water. Without waiting for a realisation of
Henry George’s principles in the direction of
nationalisation of all the world’s soil, why not
nationalise, and that immediately, all the coal of
N.S.W., and make it a penal offence for com-
panies to mine for coal under an agricultural
grant?—Yours, Nationalise,
Tim Dowling,
Here drunk as Bacchus lies Tim Howling
He’s spent his blooming screw ;
Yah ! hear his missus loudly howling,
Her kicks can’t bring him to,
Forgotten were his home, her beauty,
And so poor Tim —Alas !
Through drinking rum that ne’er paid duty,
Has friendless gone to pass.
Tim never from the bar departed
So loDg as drinks went round ;
His friends were many and true-hearted
Whene’er he held a pound,
And thus though barefoot Patsy, Molly,
And lacking smock, or shirt,
Tim buys his cure for melancholy,
They thrive among the dirt,
Poor Tim lies soaking in the gutter,
Wet through, inside, and out;
Between his hiccoughs hear him muttor,
“ Mine’s fishkee, rum, gin, stout
Thus Drink, which kings, lords, priests de-
spatches,
Tim’s weekly wage lias scoffed,
The bobbies clap him under hatches,
He’s fined, and let down soft.


CORRESPONDENCE
“ S.S.W.”: What is the use of your pulling a
long face and whimpering about the “ want of considera-
tion ” shown by Labour to the interests of Capital ? Does
Capital ever show any consideration for Labour ? Did
Capital ever give Labour bread and butter if Free Com-
petition cut the reward of Labour down to mere bread ?
Did Capital ever give Labour bread if Free Competition
out the reward of Labour down to garbage ? Does the
average employer of labour give his workmen ss. a week
more than he can help, although they may be living in
a sly, amid squalor and filtb, misery and disease 1 Sing
low, “5.5. W.,” sing small 1 What Bay you of coercion ?
What about coercion on the side of the employer of
Labour ? Does he not enforce his ipse dixit, if he can,
with police and bayonets ? Why worry yourself with
such puerile talk about shearers’riots ? Is their force worse
than the gilded force that makes use of 40 Colt’s revolvers
and 4000 rounds of ammunition ? Wbat of the force of
men employed against their fellow-men and so demoralised
by the bait of bribery as to be “eager for the fr y”
w hich must mean death and widowhood and orphanage ?
And the 14 mounted police and all the armed
threats of those whose wealth is made of
Labour’s sweat—What of that, “ S.S.W. ?”....“ J.H.W.”
(Warwick): The case is too parochial. The world
is full of misery and suffering and woe; the life of
man is a ceaseless rush for wealth, in the course of which
he treads the orphan and the fatherless underfoot that he
may make enough to pay for a big funeral before he goes
to perdition, and all is vanity and vexation of spirit. And
in ths midst of these accumulated horrors you intrude
upon our meditations about a case affecting 11,000 super-
fie’al feet of boards one inch thick....“ Sage ” (Broken
Hill): Not worth while to mock the misery of the
obituary.advertising poet. After all, it's not every woman
who is so steadfast as to write poetry to the memory of
her husband a whole year after he has been claimed by
the undertaker, and then to pay half-a-crown to have the
said poetry put in the Age ; nor is it every daughter
who whites poetry to the memory of her old father, long
dead. Let us hope that when we die we may leave
behind a loving dog which will howl and scratch over
our grave, and a loving woman who will pay David
Syme balf-a crowm to print her little screed a> d
tell the world how she did love us “S.E.”: .As
the copyright of a letter is not the property of the
man to whom it is sent, but belongs to the writer of it,
you cannot legally do anything of the sort
“Snooks”: Thanks. Already noticed, however
“W. 8.”: Of only local interest “ H.J.T.” (Melb.) : We
haven’t seen your M.S “Banana”: We stand cor-
rected....“ A.G.” : Dead? Yes, dead—of pecuniary
paralysis “Trotter Bsthune ” : Will consid r ...
“ W. J.R.” : The unshaven bush poet is a dreary old < hes -
rut of the worst description “Fair Play to All”:
Will endeavour to “ paint the subj'et” as you suggest.
You couldn’t have sent it to a better pla-e. Inspirations
carefully varnished on the premises “ Bally ” (Ash-
tie Id): Thanks... .“Erin.a" : Yarn too small to be of
much use to anybody “ F.D.’ (Port Adelaide): Thant s.
Will find room if possible “Free Trade”: G od idea.
“J S.”: Wrong Pa rkes, Abigail, Ilaynes “Lulu”:
Too steep “Annual Subscriber’ : Better wait ti'l
M‘ll wraith sets the ba’l faiily rolling in a month or two.
.... “E. A. :If the Svdney Post Office “ will only last
150 years" then the Sydney Post Office carvings will
only lad 150 years. And tha.’s a good job
"Buck-tooth”: Your “dentist’s recollections” are tooth
in....“ F. F. Whealy” (Menindie): If the river Darling
were looked the traffic thence would probably flow to
Melbourne. A railway would bring it to Sydney, although
without a permanent water-supply the traffic would
always be of a-rather ipasmodic nature. Looking the
Darling should not be opposed to railway extension to
Wilcmnia. The one is as necessary' as the other, although
so far as the prosperity of the district and not of Sydney
is concerned, the reservation e f the river-watt r is the
horse the Darlingites ought to back Railway extension
without irrigation is like having a cart-lull of goods with
no horse to draw it.. “M. B. Goggs”: Humour thin,
and spread over too much surface “ Australii-for the-
Australiaus-and-not-for-the-Bulls” : If you would com-
press your signature, likewise your “ eers- d,” each would
be more readily negotiable “Susan”: Received
“ H.E.” (Merriwa) : Too sultry young man, and the pro-
fanity of a very amateur brand it that . ..“R bert
Beattie’ (Melbourne): You d-stroy whatever weight your
argument miriit have by u> tr.ing in a temper and ca'ling
people names “ Anti-H> mbug ’: About the talent
of Nellie Fa-ren and Fred Leslie there can be
no doubt. Neither is there any doubt about the ut’er
worthlessness of the piece they are at present performing
in. “Monte Christo, Juor.,’ is a rubbishing a.d sense-
less travesty, but you mustn't blame the artists for that.
They didn't write the piece < r select the piece, or compose
the music for it. “L trie Jack Sheppard” is a stock-
piece with the London Gai-ty Burlesque Company and
the members shine particularly well in it. That it has
been produced by another company p -evious to
their visit is their misfor.une and not their fault.
Royoe, by the way, was the original “ Blueekin ”
at the London Gaiety’s production of the piece
“ M T.H.M. ’: Hiniedto Hip. You have good ideas
both of humour and drawing, but you must learn to
sketch more fre. ly.. . “ Old Forty-niner ’ : Held ov r for
consideratmn ..“Phono”: Tranks. The eentinen-
talists are not nrcsorati.v the people who would abot'sh
cap t.l punishment The h->rd logic of fact and expeiience
is ail on the side of the opponents of the scaffold. The
objection existing to the abolition of the (jeath-penalty is
a purely sentimental o e. and cannot be logically main-
tain ei .... “ Mer ufio” : No, we do rot know colour
of the cloak worn by a P.d >ai doctor of lav s in Italy in
the seventeenth c ntury. Whs nwe were a dec or < f laws
in Italy-at that time we pawned onr clcak to Shylock
in order to pay for a supper of tr pe end onions . .
“The Friend” (Queerslancl): No, tho e are decidedly
not the attentions, &c It would be h, rd to “dish up
the fare ” You write well; send us fomething print-
able ...‘ O 'er-Evposed”: Thants “JSC” (Jun*e):
We wool i like to print your letter in full, but there are a
few' i mall legal d.ffi sultie i in tt-e way > f ralPng a man “ a
ruffianly, ribald, li entiovs, filthy,'obscene, and d:sgust-
ing scoundrel.” “Haldhcne”: Rath r pro'ane in
-pots, but far bet'er than many attempts which come our
way. L’sten and heirymir-n L speak one verse:—
“Still the say' that I must go io church -
As the sole m> ans of savirg my soul,
Else I'll surely be left in the lurch
When the angel is c lling the ro’l ”
.. . .“11.W.F” (Vic): Tuanks, Already noticed
“Wanda’: Please tall on the manager.....“ Nemo ”
(RocAhimpton, Q.): The pr. quoted 's considerably
more lucid th n the average matter of the paper from
which it was extracted.. “TD.” (Auckland, N.Z.):
Complime tary matter of which you desire “ note ” to be
made mid rid “ M. A.D.” (Bourke) : Weshou’dthinkso.
Interna'evidence of » Pged poetry is tuffici rrtly convincing.
, . “ Nondescript” (Waloha) : We never said anything of the
sort, and if w e did it does not follow that the meaning you
affix to it is what we meant. Protection takes all sorts of
forms. The fiscal aspect of Protection is only one aspect.
The most drastic measure of Protection to Australia is
that advocated by hundreds upon hundreds of N.S.W.
Fr'etradsrs—vQ., Exclusion of the Chinese.
History of Botany Bay.
Van Diemen’s Land is as infamous for
old-time horrors as any other part of Aus-
tralia, even including Norfolk Island. The
pretty little southern colony seemed destined
by nature to be a garden and beauty-spot
for the continent, but its first rulers turned
it into an abode of despair and misery, and
of men who were worse than fiends. “ Van-
demonia ” was the sinister name it became
known by in those old days, and no better
step could have been taken when its people
had shuffled off its convict coil than to change
it.y ill-omened name to Tasmania.
* # •
The first convicts were taken to Van
Diemen’s Land by Lieutenant Bowen in
LBO3. He brought with him a surgeon and
ten male and six female prisoners. Next
year came Collins, who abandoned an attempt
to found a convict-settlement on the shores
of Port Phillip, and discharged his convicts
at the head of Sullivan’s Cove, now Hobart,
on January 30, 1804. From that date this
spot was the scene of the usual sights and
sounds of the convict system, which has
already been described in sufficient detail.
It is here and at Port Arthur and Macquarie
Harbour that Marcus Clarke lays the scene
of the earlier chapters of his novel, “ For
the Term of his Natural Life. ” It is possible
that some of the stories that are told
about these places surpass in their
cold-blooded horror anything that is re-
“AND THEY WERE VERT HUNGRY.”
corded of any other part of the convict
settlements. A return of the sentences at
Macquarie Harbour, during the five years
between 1822 and 1826, shows that while
the roll of convicts never reached 300 there,
and in one year was less than 200, the total
number of lashes administered was upwards
of 33,000.
» • •
There was a small rock off the settlement
in Macquarie Harbour which was used as a
place of punishment for refractory convicts.
They were sent to sleep there, and ‘‘ it seldom
happened that an individual could land upon
the rock without getting wet, with the re-
sult that he must either sleep in his clothes
or go without clothing ; the greater part of
them slept in their clothes, and particularly
those who had chains on ; nine-tenths of
those who slept on this small island were in
heavy irons.” -This is from the evidence of
a witness before the Committee of the
House of Commons in 1838. The same wit-
ness described the description of “cat”
with which the 33,000 lashes were inflicted.
It was a double cat-o’-nine-tails, each tail of
which was of a double twist of whipcord,
and each tail contained nine knots, forming
a much more formidable instrument than
the ordinary cat-o’-nine-tails. Deponent,
who resigned his position at Macquarie
Harbour rather than continue to live among
the horrors of that dreadful place, says that
he never knew a convict benefited by flagel-
lation, and that the punishment always
had the effect of demoralising the recipients
to the lowest possible degree. They were
so much degraded by the punishment, he
says, that they often told him they would
never rest satisfied till they had been
executed for some further offence. He
gives an instance of one man who received
100 lashes a few days after his arrival for
attempting to steal a boat. “After he was
taken down from the halberds he imme-
diately turned round to me and said, ‘ It is
the first time I have been punished by the
cat, and it shall be the lasthe added that
the first opportunity he had of committing a
crime which would send him before a
criminal court would be one which should
hang him ; and the man’s words were veri-
fied, for he was executed for an offence
committed at Macquarie Harbour, and that
offence was the murdor of his constable, and
I believe that three or four out of the same
party, who were punished that day for the
same offence, were executed for the same
murder. ”
• * #
The same witness, in answer to a question
by one of the Committee, assured his ques-
tioner that the convicts looked upon execu-
tion as a means of escape from the
settlement. The ceremony produced a feel-
ing, he said, of the most disgusting descrip-
tion among the convicts. “The convicts
were assembled round the gallows for the
purpose of witnessing the execution, and so
buoyant were the feelings of the men about
to be executed, and so little did they care
about it, that they absolutely kicked their
shoes off among the erowd as they were
about to be executed, in order, as
the term expressed by them was, that they
might die game ; it seemed, as the sheriff
described it, more like a parting of friends
who were going a distant journey on land,
than of individuals who were about to
separate from each other for ever ; the ex-
pressions that were used on that
were, ‘Good bye, Hob,’ and ‘Good bye,
Jack,’ and expressions of that kind among
those in the crowd to those about to be exe-
cuted.” Crimes were very frequent at Mac-
quarie Harbour among convicts who desired
to be sent for trial to Hobart Town, and sen-
tenced to death. Others attempted to escape,
and out of 116 who absconded between 1822
and 1827, 75 are supposed to have died in
the bush, one was hanged for murdering and
eating his companion, two were shot by the
military, eight were known to have been
murdered by their companions and of these
six were eaten, 13 were hanged for bush-
ranging and two for murder.
# • *
“Of these six were eaten.” Cannibalism
was one of the developments of the convict-
system, and you will remember how Gab-
bett, in Marcus Clarke’s book, evolved a
scheme for escape, and took with him pro-
visions for his flight in the shape of two or
three living comrades. Among the papers
put before the Committee in 1838 is a report
of the case of a man named Pierce, who is
described as having lived- on part of a com-
rade’s body for two days. But this man
was a fastidious epicure, for he became a
cannibal although at the time he had some
pork and bread in his pocket.
• • •
Mr. Pierce escaped with seven others,
who ‘ ‘ made it up for to take a boat and
proceed to Hobart Town.” They did so,
and landed to walk across the island. After
being without provisions for two days, they
were very cold and hungry. “Bill Cornelius
says, ‘I am so weak that I could eat a piece
of a man.’ The next morning after this
there were four of us for a feast. Bob
Greenhill was the first who introduced it,
and said he had seen the like done before.’j
But to here give details would be too
revolting. Suffice it to say that Marcus
Clarke’s hideous story of Gabbett, of whom
Bob Greenhill was the original, is in nearly
all respects absolutely true. Anyone who
has the nerve and the inclination to read the
ghastly narrative of Pierce will find it given
in full in the Appendix to the Report of the
British Parliamentary Commission on Penal
Settlements, dated 1838. After killing and
eating the last of his companions Pierce
lived on some pieces of opossum he found,
and some birds he caught, until at length
he came across a flock of sheep. He
had killed a lamb and was eating it raw
when the shepherd came up and recognised
him. Then the story goes on until he was
at length captured, tried for his escape and
other crimes, and duly hanged in 1823.
•
This is the authentic original of one of the
stories of the convict days in “ His Natural
Life,” and we epitomise it here to prove
that the worst that has been said about the
effects of the convict-system is true. No
more need be said on the subject, though
volumes might be written. Had mere
sensationalism been the object much that
has been carefully left out would pro-
bably have been retained. No limit
exists to the horrors of Macquarie Harbour
and Port Arthur, and if we stop here it
is because, as before stated, the purpose
of these papers will be as well served
by one representative instance as by 50.
These matters are adduced in illustration of
our contention that the convict-system was
radically and abominably cruel and bad, and
that everything we inherit in our prison
system of to-day, in the traditions of our
public policy, and in the officialism trained
and formed under the old convict-system, is
demonstrably bad in a proportionate degree.
We wonder every now and then that our
criminal law is so harsh and cruel, that men
are flogged in the police stations at the
corners of Australian cities at mid-day, that
the spirit of officialism is so strong, and
that public opinion is so weak—and these
papers are intended to give the answer.
Take any one single instance of what we
refer to, and trace it back from precedent to
precedent in the history of our criminal law
or public policy, and we venture to say that
in every one single instance the origin of
what we are ashamed of will be found in the
state of things which we, in these repre-
sentative instances that have been quoted,
have feebly endeavoured to describe.
The Queen of Servia, whom King Milan is
divorcing, has an acid tongue. It is related that
before leaving Servia she attended a reception
after the Easter Mass when it is the custom for
the Queen to kiss the wives of the Foreign
Ministers, and when the King called her atten-
tion to the fact that she had omitted to salute
a certain one of them she bowed gracefully and
said, so that everyone could hear, “I leave that
agreeable duty to yo'ur Majesty.” At dinner once
the King observed to the wife of the Austrian
Military Attache, that he had been educated at
Paris, whereupon Queen Nathalie observed that
“his guests would find some difficulty in believing
him.” Such incidents as these recurred frequently,
and the King finally refused to see the Queen any
more.
Qua imodo.
(After seeing the Gaiety Buslesyue—a sentimental
man’s version of the Hunchback's unfortu-
nate passion.)
Paris, once upon a time,
You must know,
Held the hero of my rhyme,
Long ago.
He, a man unmeet to woo,'
Loved, as luckier men may do.
He was—well, to say the least,!
Not a Beau !
Talk of Beauty and the Beast!
(Long ago)
She was sweet: her beauty shone
Bright beyond comparison.
Could he ever hope to wed ?
(Long ago)
Body crippled—silly head—
Surely no!
Who would be, for woe or weal,
Tethered to an imbecile ?
So, poor wretch, to cheer a mind
Full of woe,
Other joys he tried to find
(Long ago).
But his thoughts (’twas all in vain)
Always turned to her again.
If to smoke a pipe he tried
(Long ago)
When the wreaths of smoke he spied
Curling slow,
That within his mind would stir
Fresh and fonder thoughts of her.
If he gazed into the grate
Burning low,
Mimicked there, as sure as fate
(Long ago),
Where the embers smouldered dim,
Lo! she looked and laughed at him.
If he walked the gardens round,
(Long ago),
Where the flowers o’er all the greund
Bud and blow,
Then would every gay parterre
Show him features of the fair.
If, to cool his burning soul
(Long ago),
By the Seine he chanced to stroll
To and fro,
Mirrored there as in a glass
Still he saw the gipsy lass!
So, you see, in vain he went
(Long ago)
And in every element **
Searched, and lo!
Earth and Water, Fire and Air
Showed the gipsy everywhere !
Silly fellow ! All the day ,
(Long ago)
He would fool the time away—
Sweetly so !
Trying clumsily to trace
Portraits of his lady’s face*
Cheeks where lilies white, and red
Hoses grow ;
Such a pretty, curly head !
(Long ago),
Hair whose crinkly locks unrolled
Glancedand gleamed like glia t’ning gold.
Little ears on either side
(Long ago),
Merry eyes that opened wide,
Like an 0;
Foamless seas or cloudless skies —
Nought but these would match her eyes.
Cherry lips and teeth within
White as snow ;
Ivory brow and dimpled chin
(Long ago) :
Four French words described her well:
“Chic,” “riante, “petite,” and “belle.”
Brooding thus, he felt the flame
Hotter glow
Lovers often do the same!—■
(Long ago),
Spend their da vs in idle fashion,
Fostering a hopeless passion !
Where’s his spirit now ? Above ?
Or below ?
Is it crippled ? Does it love ?
Does she know ?
Died he ? But his vanished age
Reappears upon the stage.
“ Esmeralda”—that’s the play !
Mind you go !
Farren, Leslie, Danby, Gray,
Lind and Co!
Story, as the hunchback’s good.
So’s the gipsy—Marion Hood.
HUGH W. INNES.


Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. —“ Gaiety Burlesque Com-
pany” 15
Her Majesty’s.— “ Lights o’ London ”
Criterion.— “ Jim the Penman ” „
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy „
Academy of Music.— Federal Minstrels
Sydney Royal continues to show good
audiences, though the excited crush which marked
the first nights of the season has been already
somewhat alleviated. After eight or nine even-
ings of close observation the Sydney public have
come to the conclusion that Nellie Farren is an
angel of light and a thing of joy for ever, that
Marion Hood is a daisy of the first magnitude,
that Letty Lind dances like a fairy, that Fred
Leslie and Charles Danby are almost as good as
Blueskin Rojce, that Fred. Storey manages the
eloquent dialogue which was written for his legs
in a way that is wonderful, astounding, unap-
proachable, and that “Monte Cristo, Junr is
too stupid for anything. There are no points in
it to compare with those which illumine “Little
Jack Sheppard,” and consequently a gold
many of the people who used to rush
the latter burlesque, and exhaust all the
standing accommodation, and put their heads
through the ventilators, and hang on to the roof
by their hair, have successfully stayed away. The
unfortunate absence of Miss Sylvia Grey, arising,
we believe, from an accident met with by that
lovely vision, givts a favourable opportunity to
another dream of gladness, yclept Fanny Marriott,
who does her share in the effort to make things
hum; but the boasted piece is a gaily-painted
shriek without any earthly significance and only
a very strong company could hope to hold it up.
The Gaiety company is strong in every depart-
ment, but it isn’t really stronger than the “Jack
Sheppard ” combination, and circumstances are
rough on it. The celestial Nellie Farren is an
outburst of unspeakable bliss, but Fred. Leslie is
hampered by the special idiocy of his part,
and Charles Danby, who is almost equally good,
suffers in the same direction. Fred Storey escapes
better than any of his colleagues, but this isowing
to the fact that he earns his living with his legs,
and if we had two such legs, or even one, we
would give up journalism and become a race of
bloated millionaires. Still, despite all drawbacks,
so long as one badly-broken-up masher survives
and hangs on to his eyeglass, the Gaiety company
will live, and if they have even a reasonably good
piece in their repertoire they will grow rich be-
yond the dreams of avarice. The scenery is first-
class, and the energy and ability of Mr. Goodman
are sufficient to pilot even a dog-fight to the end
of a successful season.
. « * •
The time for vengeance will come. Aa
we write the small boy is growing who, when he
is big enough, will rush the show of Professor
“Canaris,” at Sydney Academy, and shove that
abject Greek frost off the stage, and the brick is
being baked which will be thrown at an early date
right through the “Shadowgraph.” In the course
of a troubled existence we have met with many
palsied horrors ending with “graph,” but never
before did we encounter so appalling a graph as
this. It consisted of a damp tablecloth with a
light behind it, and two painfully conspicuous
boys without any ejats on moving figures
of horses, goats, pigs, &c., across this plain
and ordinary scene. A naval conflict was shown, in
which a sailing vessel of no particular rig and with
six yards on each mast was knocked about by a
steamer. One of the boys apparently lit a match at
intervals and uttered a whoop to represent the
artillery, and ultimately both vessels went down.
The steamer, however, promptly came up again
and sailed away with one end sticking up in the
air. The sad old Davenport Brothers’ show was
also exhibited, and a “ committee ” of four went
up on the stage to seo that all was fair. _ An
astonished old gentleman, with a look of simple
bewilderment spread all over his bead, formed a
part of this body, and the other members were
evidently the twin brothers of the gentlemen who
used to go into a trance at the Opera House in the
days of Professor Kennedy, and eat soap, and
find half-a-pound of flour in their hats, and pursue
visionary rats with brooms and other imple-
ments. The Professor got h : s dress-suit badly
crushed in his struggles to free himself
from his fastenings, and if he does the
cabinet trick often he will have to buy new
clothes or else go around in a petticoat. The
last part of the show was advertised to consist of
“ Ancient and Modern Necromancy,” embracing
six imposing item —“The Pacific on the Stage;
A Terrible Massacre; Egyptian Necromancy;
The Terrible Flood,” and two others equally large
and pompous; but they all finally resolved them-
selves into the old, shattered, broken-down joke
of extracting 100 yards of ribbon out of a bor-
rowed hat. A j onng-lady assistant in male attire
stood on the stage and looked on without shifting
from one leg to the other more than twice in 10
minutes, but at last the flying Greek made
an observation in a low tone, and she
fled nd didn't come back. Probably he
remark h “Get out!” in the melodious
Athenian Gnguage, but this is only conjecture.
Mr. Hiscock looked cn for a short time, and then
retired, apparently tco full for utterance. We
propose getting up a cash testimonial and an illu-
minated address of condolence for this enterpris-
ing genth man, in view of the m sfortune which
has settled on Ir's house. Subscript ns will be
thankfully received. We yawned all through the
show, and when we got outside we did a final
yawn and dislocated our face so that we couldn t
get cur mouth shut. We th* n retired into a dark
corner and re-set our jaw so effectually, that we
couldn't get it open again for a long time, and
when at last it did get into working order we had
to keep opening and shutting our countenance all
the way home to prevent a relapse.
# * # *
The “ Lights o’ London” are burning low
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and next Saturday
“ Uncle Tom’s’Cabin ” will ensue. It is under-
stood to be a new version, and the domicile of our
father’s brother Thomas will be presented in
sundry novel aspects.
# * # *
A good drama and a first-class company
are not meeting with quite so good a reward as
they deserve at Sydney Criterion. “ Jim the
Penman ” is a piece which merits success for
many reasons ; among others because it conveys
a valuable lesson to forgers who have heart-
disease, and teaches them not to lay nefarious
plans along with a baron without fust making
certain that there isn’t a captain with a wonder-
ful moustache asleep in the conservatory.
Forgers who have heart-disease and who wish
to lay plans with a baron should take him
out at midnight to the centre of a waste
place beside the moaning sea, and then
they should write what they want to convey in
cypher, and let the baron read it by the light of a
match. When lie has finished reading it the
paper ought to be burnt, and the baron should
swallow the ashes, a*id any remarks which he
wishes to utter in return should be breathed
in shorthand through an ear-uumpet, and the
trumpet afterwards split up for firewood “Jim
the Penman ” dies next Friday, and Saturday
night is devoted to “The Candidate.”
* * * #
The boneless Japanese gentlemen have
caught on at Sydney Alhambra, and the air is
thick with the screams of the multitude.
“ Drunk,” a shrieking parody on Warner’s
“Drink,” is even better than the ordinary stan-
dard of F. Smith’s followers, and the balance of
the programme is good for the soul.
# # # #
The Hicks-Sawyer Minstrels, consisting of
30 “cullud pussons” from America, will commence
a big, black boom at Sjdney Opera House next
Saturday, the building haviog been cleaned and
renovated and scraDed in an elaborate manner.
This Soudanese band have been imported under
engagement to Mr. Hiscocks, and that energetic
owner of a tall hat expects to make a great suc-
cess. The Federal Minstrels, meanwhile, are
warbliog in the South, at least some of them are—
the fate of the oth,"-' s is uncertain. It was ar-
ranged that the c > . pany was to leave by train at
9 o’clock one m .ling, and as two of the most
prominent mem rs were still asleep at 8.45, and
were last seen lighting out with their boots ia
their hands at 8.55 with about two miles to travel,
it is feared that the combination did not open in
its customary complete condition, and that a pair
of minstrels are lost and homeless on the railway
system of N S.W.
* * * •
All the artistic and sympathetic souls of
Sydney rolled up in a dense mass at the Criterion
last Wednesday, when a matin e a performance was
given on behalf of the members of the French
Comedy Company, a talented aggregation which
went broke some little time ago on the shores of
Botany Bay because the people didn’t know
enough French to understand what it was all
about. The list of performers included about
half the artists at present playing in Sydney, and
the other half also wanted to assist, but were
crowded out and unavoidably held over till next
issue. The theatre was lent for the occasion by
Messrs. Brough and Biucicault and the ever-
generous Mr. Solomon. George Tank Rignold
and the members of his company appeared with
eel At —whatever that may be—in one act of t> at
successful drama, “ My Partner”; Fred Maccabe
gave a rem irkable exhibition of ventriloquism; and
Mesdames Elsi Sherwin, Agnes Thomas, Phillips,
C. B. Foster, Messrs. Kowalski, Walshe, Huener-
bein, Poussard, Gainor, Hallewell, and Cadzow all
took a hand in a concert with the Criterion
orchestra and M. L°on Caron to keep them
steady in the way they ought to go. Madame
Garetta’s pigeons also floated around in the good
cause ; Messrs. Braham, Read, Palmer, Porter,
Farley, and Dempsey discoursed in song and
otherwise ; the derelict Gauls contributed “ Les
Femmes qui Pleurent ”; and Mrs. W. E. Sheridan
(Miss Louise Davenport) and Miss Lily Lvurel
also sailed in ; while Mr. J. H. Rainford and
other gentlemen toiled manfully and ably in
the heavy woik of management. Mr. Charles
Warner was represented by a £lO cheque, and the
performance and the profits were alike satisfactory.
# # * #
There is an awful falling-off in Melbourne
rink returns since the Government opened their
comprehensive show in Nicholson-street. Those
rink proprietors wh > have no visible means of sub-
sistence beyond slim-legged dudes on wheels are
sitting sorrowfully at the receipt of custom and
wondering what the next six months will bring
forth. Bad times are coming for them and for
others whose surplus profits already begin to
trickle through the Exhibition turnstiles. As the
weather gets warm, Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove will be on the horns of a dilemma akmg
with Brough and B iucicault. Both firms will feel
disposed to pour the flower of their forces into
Sydney- but for fear of the other fellows set-
ting up a transcendent attraction in Melbourne
and thus “bunching” all the available patronage
in one house. By October, wfih the Exhibition
in full swing, Melbjurne people must require a
terrible lot of fetching into a stuffy theatre The
Saturday night lush evill be reduced to a third cf
what it now is, and only the fittest show will sur-
vive long enoue h to prove remunerative. This is
the situation which makes the Triumvirate sit up
and think hard, for they can scare* ly hope to run
their two Melbourne theatres in successful oppo-
sition to the Exhibition, even if B. and B. are
doing no good at the Bijou while knocking out
W., G., and M. in Sydney. The parties interested
can ling several othtr changes with these conjec-
tures, if they havtn’t done so already. There are
two more Melbourne theatres —Opera House
and Alexandra —in either of which Mr. Simon-
sen could reasonab'y expect to do big
business with hi? new Italian company.
The Exhibition will interfere very little with their
prospects, but least of all will it affect the two
nigger halls. Meantime all who spread their
nets to catch the public shilling are thankful that
the Exhibition has opened before it is half ready
and that it certainly lacks brightness. Music is
heavy, and heard only in the concert-hall. Ex-
hibits are heavy—especially in mountains of New-
castle coal and German pianos. Pictures are
heavy, several of the Biicish Loan Collection be-
ing “duffers” sent out for sale by artists who
have had them on hand for years. The cata-
logue is an atrocity and diinking-places are scarce.
* * * *
A certain sense of sadness that is full of
strange foreboding lurks about many Melbourne
shows, only the “Magistrate ” being long for this
world. The Bijou was persistently full every
night last week, and the points of Pinero’s smart
dialogue appeared to penetrate all parts of the
house. Even that hitherto select joke about Mr.
Posket’s pictures being “all genuine Constables”
appeals to the masses, now that the British Loan
Collection has taught them that a genuine Con-
stable isn’t an overfed creature in a blue jumper.
And the Levites who were wont to pass that
wheeze silently by on the other side, make demon-
strative mirth over it in these latter days. At
the Princess’s there are signs that the glory of
Essie Jenyns is not built upon a rock, hence the
original intention of the management to produce
but one play per week has changed in accordance
with the spirit of the times. “ As You Like It ”
fetched a liberal attendance on Saturday, but it
was to be replaced by “ Ingomar ” on Wednesday,
by special command of His Excellency and Lady
Loch, from which we gather that young Victoria
has not yet cut adrift from her mother’s apron-
strings. (N.B.—The advertised “ command ” was
subsequently modified into “desire.”) In the
way of scenery everything possible is being done
for Essie and her imposing relative. Their new
Forest of Arden, for instance, is better than
Nature, because its bright Spring verdure is
scattered o’er with Autumn’s falling leaves while
aught else tells of never-dying Summer. The
dead leaves, however, are in sweet harmony with
Rosalind’s suit, and the picture pleases more than
ever. It is too late in the day to attempt a re-
formation of Mr. Billiam Holloway, or to ask
Essie (and several of her suite) not to drop so
heavily on Shakespeare’s adjectives, when there are
substantives which require looking after. The
murdered text dies happy, perhaps, if Essie does
the deed.
#* # #
Little that isn’t nasty can be said about
the course of events at Melbourne Opera House.
“Martha” was a thing of joy compared with
“ Der Frieschutz,” in which several popular per-
formers were doomed to make objects of them-
selves on Saturday nigh*!. The trouble was about
equally divided between a new tenor, Mr. Charles
Andrews, and an orchestra who put in their time
by playing ghastly variations upon the melody
that killed the aged cow. Under these circum-
stances Miss Colborne Biber, Minna Fischer, and
even the experienced Verdi were generally pro-
ducing discord. The new tenor was a luneless
individual struggling to sink into a pair of bier,
baggy boots every time the awful sound of his
own croak warned him he was still alive. The
inemtabion scene produced an impression, and
minor parts were creditably filled, but the bill
must have changed ere this appears, and if it
mustn’t it doesn’t signify.
## # #
A grateful sprinkling of people fell upon
the Alexandra’s and plains on Saturday, at-
tracted by the “ Mystery of a Hansom Cab.” The
present version is adapted from Fergus Hume by
Travers Vale, and appears to be a difficult nut to
crack for anyone who hasn’t read the story and
can’t get a programme—programmes not being
laid on here, or at the Opera House, by-the-way.
Anyway, the drama contains a cab and a mystery,
and it might be a'l the better for a buggy and a
tramcar. Next week Hiscocks and Friedman set\
up their Sydney success in this unfortunate house.
## # #
Carrie Swain closes a somewhat declining
season at the Royal this week. Next Saturday
the Majeronis make a happy re-appearance as the
Corsicans (girl and guardian) in “Mr. Barnes of
New York.” In the name part George Darrell
promises to be equ tlly at home.
*# # *
Harry Rickards and the Coghills are still
holding forth to large gatherings at St. George’s
Hall, while Frank Clark’s perennial combination
address the meeting in a similar strain at the
establishment named after Her Pre-eminence in
Grief. Also the Lynch Family have been ringing
their little bells round Melbourne and suburbs for
eight weeks past, assisted by Miss Annette Iva-
nova and Mr. John Gilpin. Itis a neat and soul-
ful entertainment, inducing a wild hope that the
Family will be specially engaged to ring the Bells
of Heaven in the Sweet By and Bye. One of
them did ring his little belle at a church altar,
only the other day.
The bridegroom came and the belle was rung,
And said “ I will ” with a silv’ry tongue—
’Twas a bargain made and clinched;
To a single life no more she clung,
So nobedy w ept as the lady hung
Cn the arm of her husband —Lynched.
*# # *
Lm nora Braham and her husband were
passengers for London in the Ormuz.
** * *
John Hillier — who when in Melbourne
was “Hill”—the fourth husband of lima de
Murska, is now musical conductor at the London
Gaiety Theatre.
## * *
Mrs. Charles Dillon, widow of the actor
of that name, and who played with her husband
in Australia 30 years ago, is dead.
## # *
C mntry wife (at the ballet): “Isn’t it
awful, John?” Countryman (drawing a long
breath): “Ye’es; but I’m slowly cettin’ used to
it.”—N. Y. Sun.
** * *
In London, lately, Mr. Brookfield,
comedian, called George Moore, journalist, out of
the Haymarket Theatre and elegantly said, “ I
want to tell you that I consider your journal a
scab upon the head of journalism, and that it
would be better for combing.” Asa retort Moore
blacked Brookfield’s eye.
*■ * # #
“Princiss la” has made her first ap-
pearance ao the Adelaide Royal, and her High-
ness was received in a manner btfitting her rank,
station, and reputation. Nellie Stewart figured
as her representative, and succeeded admirably.
Messrs Elton, Leuonane, ard Vernon, Miss Alice
Barnett, and a ho t of others assisted in the
levee. The company is a strong one and doing
mighty thing?. At Garner’s, Tommy Hudson
introduced his new troupe to the biggest house on
rece rd, and the Fisk Jubilee Singers “ Steal away
toJeius” at the Town Hall, and pocket what
little coin is left.
The hops of the Mayor of Adelaide are
very popular. By the way, his Worship is a
brewer.
Two < f “ the Claimant’s ’ sons have joined
the British Army. They were sworn in under
the family name of Tichbourne.
Having amalgamated, Goldabrough and
Co. and Mort and Co. are giing to add three mil-
lions to vhe capital of the concern.
The accredited reporter of a Melbourne
journal suffered the indignity of being overhauled
by the police at the Exhibition the other day. He
had nothing on him at the time—not a sou.
A certain eminent N.S.W. politician, who
lately visited Melbourne, is graphically described
by a Bulletin correspondent as “about the
foulest-mouthed ruffian N.S.W. could send to the
Exhibition as typical of her vast resources in that
line.” We hope this isn’t libelous, and that no
one will issue an indignant writ oa the ground
that he is the “ foulest-mouthed ruffian N.S.W.
could send to the Exhibition,” as above specified.
The degradation of Parliamentary and ex-Parlia-
mentary notorieties is deep and viscid enough in
N.S.W. for one such to make a proud and lofty
claim to the character described so flatteringly by
our correspondent - aye, and to glory in it.
It has been announced that Mr W. W.
GoHins, the expounder of Secularism, has been
engaged to deliver a series of scientific lectures
from the platform of the Technical College, Pitt-
street, Sydney. This is nob merely a tribute to
the already widely recognised ability of Mr
Collins, but, what is of far more consequence,
direct testimony that the bigotry and prejudice
are rapidly dying out, which would at one time
have debarred any local lecturer holding publicly-
declared views of a similar character from occupy-
ing that platform. The initial lecture of the
series is eutitled “ A Piece of Coal.”
Josllee's Bund Slde
Closely overlooking Tom Tiddler’s ground is
the blind side of Justice, and plenty of other
people’s gold and silver may be picked up by the
fortunate folk who find footing thereon. There are
numbers of roads to Tom Tiddler’s ground, and
Justice herself is not above pointing out new
openings to that field of fortune. The latest is
labelled with the dictum that you need not pay
your advertising account to a Sunday newspaper
unless you like because your creditor cannot carry
out his contract without committing a breach of
the law. That the public will have Sunday
papers, that they are sold in scores of thousands,
and that they are recognised and useful mediums
of advertising, are considerations which do not
affect the decisions of modern “ Justice,” who will
continue to be indifferent to the needs and desires
of the people until the bandages of red tape
in which she is bound and blindfolded, are
relaxed for good aid all. Meanwhile the
Sydney Sunday Times people have to put
up with very hard luck. Their case is that they
received an order to insert a certain adver*
tisement every Sunday for 12 months ; that they
went to special expenss to alter their pages to
suit it, and paid canvasser’s commission on the
full amount of the order ; that the advertiser,
after the first insertion, expressed himself
satisfied ; that he afterwards tried to annul the
contract, which they declined to allow because
they had spent £25 already upon the work. The
Judge decided in their favour on all the issues,
but gave a verdict for the defendant on the
ground that the contract could not be carried out
without illegally employing Sunday lab ur, and the
N.S.W. Supreme Court has upheld that decision.
The Sunday Times proprietors lose the hun-
dred pounds they had earned, and probably,
at least, another hundred in law-costs, and
the defendant gets a year’s advertising for
nothing. No doubt there is rejoicing in the camp
of the righteous, and possibly the Pieimer looks
upon it as a fulfilment of the Gospel according to
Parkes, that the people who published the long
lists of his unlucky creditors should have no par-
ticular luck when they came to be creditors them-
selves. But it is just possible that some of the
righteous may find their toes trodden on by-and-
bye. Suppose, for instance, that the good and
great Doctor Jefeeris were to send an advertise-
ment of a Monday evening lecture for insertion
in a Monday morning paper, no doubt the sacred
screed would reach the office of the se’ec'ed journal
on a Saturday, bub it would not be dealt with until
Sunday. It woul 1 be set no, stereotyped, and
manipulated by a dczen different workmen cn
Sunday before it went to press on Monday morn-
ing. Would the sainted Doctor be justified in re-
fusing to pay for it ? Of course he would ! Justice
has just decided that a contract which cannot bo
carried out without the employment of Sunday
labour is illegal, and one of the consequences will
be that we shall presently see the saints squab-
bling busilv with each other, since saints employ
a good deal of Sunday labour, and are proverbially
not particularly anxious to pay anything they can
avoid paying
Dr. Usher, of Melbourne, has issued a
book on the proper management of babies. Usher
is a good name for such an author.
At Broken Hill are half-a-dozen solicitors
practising, and about half-a-dczen more English
solicitors (new arrivals) waiting for admission.
Within 24 hours after a verdict had been
returned for Mr. Eletclur in the Haynes-Fletcher
case, he receive d 83 telegrams and letters from
different parts of Australia congratulating him
upon the result of the trial.
Among the fortunate few blessed by the
recent N.S.W. mining boom wa3 a poor wretch of
a discharged Civil servant who lately lost his
billet. He invested his last few pounds in silver
stock, good luck stuck to him and he has pulled
off £40,000.
What is the good of being a musical critic
if you cannot give your friends a lift ? This is
the way a critic connected with a certain N.Q.
paper writes about his wife : —
“ Of the pel-formatce it can be said that the great diffi-
culties of the solos were overcome by — as only a
tiue-born artist could have surmounted them. The tix
upon her resourct s was a h»avy one, and no ol e but her-
self in this country could have supplied."
Mr. Speight, the Aictorian Commissioner
for Railways, during a recent visit to Sydney, ex-
pressed a strong opinion in favour of Protection
as the right policy for the Australia®. While in
England he was a thorough-going Freetrader ; but
since he found that the conditions of trade and in-
dustry in Australia are just the reverse cf what
they are in the mother country, he has deem d it
m cessary to revite his opinions, and has come to
the concbuion that the Protects nists are about
right.
A flood of light has bten shed upon the
resignation of Chief Justice Higinbotham is
Preddrnt of Melbourne Exhibition, by the con-
tretemvs wh'ch has arisen between Ci lonel Sar-
good, Executive Vice-President and Mr. MTntyre,
Chairman of the Parliamentary Reception Com-
mittee. It would appear that the ex-Minister cf
Defence has a way of treating his colleagues on
the Commio oi with the same imperious hautevr
which he so ten finds it necessary to display to
his warehou nen, and George Higinbotham is
the last mai a Australia to stand nonsense of
this kind from nybody.
High-torn d Parimn scciety has f und a
new serration The elevated ladies of that giddy
city now make up parties to go and witness sur-
ged opera h io *, amputations, post mortems,
broken legs, and patients who have been run over
by tram-cars, and they attend in nice clothes at
sweet, delightful cases in the morgue when some
particularly interesting dead body is awaiting
identification. When a pretty girl has been fished
out of the Seine they gather in fashionable groups
round ths damp slab on which she is laid, and
sniff elegant scent-bottles, and speculate about the
circumstances which led to her untimely end in
the cold, wet river, and they haunt the criminal
oourts and turn their opera-g’asses on brawny
murderers and other imposing criminals. It is an
innocent species of butterfly recreation and doesn’t
lead to any bad consequences. The jewelled lady
who inspects through an eye-glass the girl who has
been forked out of the river doesn’t go away with a
tragic impression on her mind, which will one day
lead her to jump over a bridge in person, for she
doesn’t want to die in cold, dirty water and suffer
from shivers in her last moments, and she has a
constitutional objection to be a muddy, common-
place body ; besides she hasn’t any place to put
an impression in. But looking at human remains
helps to pass away a long, sultry afternoon, and it
is so interesting you know, and when she is looking
at the remains she meets such a lob of nice people
who have also come to look at the remains, and
generally it is the correct thing to do anyhow.
Life is apt to get slow at times, even in Paris, and
to go and look at a few dead bodies helps to pass
away the time and promote cheerfulness all
round.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
urn mm liquqe
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN 'COLONIFS.
Everybody aaya—and what everybody says must) be true
—that Pennell's Stow-wttttk Patknt Rot.i.rr Fnorß is the
beet in the market
Study your own interest by using PemelFs Snow-whitr
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
hest colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The q-u’ity is ex cep icrally :.rcd, ar.d th> p ice ve y lew-
The Brickbat.
[Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Canngton.).
Modern Society (London) points with in-
dignation to the beastly custom, followed even by
(( merchants and professional men in bcotland,
of living in a “flat” which consists only of two
rooms and a kitchen. The Scotch “merchant and
professional man, ” according to the same authority,
has a box-bed in each room, parlour included, and
he washes himself at the kitchen sink. So do his
wife and his daughters, for the Scotch merchant
never even saw a wash-stand. Every bed holds as
many human beings as can be crowded into it, and
“ one or two members of the family sleep in the
kitchen along with the servant.” This is an
awful picture, but the London journalist in his
innocence and ignorance has failed to do anything
like justice to the horrors of existence among the
upper and middle classes in Scotland. Even in the
highest circles house accommodation is miserably
scanty, and people sleep anywhere. A well-known
Scotch duke of long descent admitted in the Lords
that he had slept for upwards of 20 years in the
area in front of his house and hung his clothes on
the railings, and even then he didn t sleep much
for he had to sit up and watch lest his attire
should be stolen. He had also to get up at four
o’clock in summer and six. in winter m order to
get dressed before it was light, and he had to hire
a special constable to watch over him during the
night. His eldest son and heir slept m the ash-
bin and several times was set on fire through the
carelessness of the servant in throwing hot
cinders on top of him, and once or twice
he was removed by the dustmen when he was
asleep, and was only found when the ashes were
sifted at the depot. Ultimately the cinders
settled on his lungs, and he died of consumption
a victim to an awful shortness of house accommo-
dation. The daughters of the family generally
slept up the chimney. They all washed them-
selves in the kitchen, except when the tap was
frozen, and then they had a dry polish. Their
house consisted of two apartments, but as one was
completely blocked by the family plate and the
armour of the Duke’s ancestors, it was not avail-
able for general use. Ultimately this family re-
moved to a smaller residence, and it has since
been lost sight of. These simple facts are suffi-
cient evidence of the terrible insanitary conditions
of life even in the highest. circles of Scottish
society, and when we mention that among the
artisan population 18 families generally live in one
room, while the stairs are let out to single men
who have to tie their personal effects to the rail-
ings, we trust that the editor of Modern Societi
will begin to understand how little he knows of
the horrors of life in a Scotch “flat.” A tendency
to write about things which he doesn’t compre-
hend is the curse of the British journalist, and
until this difficulty is surmounted it is impossible
for him to achieve anything presenting even a
distant resemblance to genuine greatness.
* * *
Item by the scoffer who runs the Cooktown
Independent
“We can never sneer at the Christian religion or at its
enthusiastic propagandists, but we must really draw the
line somewhere, and we draw it against the Lord beiDg
brought to us in a perambulator, as was the case on Wed-
nesday evening.”
It appears that two she-apostles called on the re-
probate gaffer of the Independent with a view to
laying some fire and brimstone before him, and as
the Bible with which they pursued the broken and
contrite heart was too large and heavy for any one
live woman to carry, they brought it along in a
baby-dray. Arrived at their destination they
tottered upstairs, perspiring audibly beneath their
burden, and falling together in a heap at the door
of the editor’s lair they asked him in accents
exhausted and wild if he was prepared to perish
and what would happen to him if he were cut off m
the night and rose in the morning to find himself
lying down dead. This was what led the scoffer
of the North to pen the above paragraph, and
when we consider the weather and the fact that
two women were pounding the law and the prophets
in his sanctum, and making him feel hot, and
using up the air in a room which was only large
enough for one, and raising dust and ants and
spiders aw they pranced around, we can under-
stand the length and breadth and fury of his
emotion.
• * *
A Queensland correspondent comes along
this week with a pathetic legend about an engine,
which is calculated to make the saints quarrel in
glory and throw tticir halccs at each other
the waving foliage of the Elysian fields. Some-
body 1 , it appears, in a day of aberration was in-
duced to take a railway line within five miles of
Thompson’s Lair, an invisible township that wept
on the banks of a creek that didn t flow anywhere,
and the residents of this dark, abandoned spot at
once began to agitate for a branch. They didn t
get it, but the excitement unsettled their minds,
and they grew dissatisfied with the one ruinous
bullock-dray drawn by two dried-up cows which
had hitherto sufficed to keep up their communica-
tions with the outside world, and in a general
way they longed for a change. So a few
influential citizens and dog-stealers formed
a syndicate and purchased a road engine.
This machine was capable of hauling as
big a load as the dray and the two dead
cows, and things went very well excepting that it
took two men to manage it and three teams to
cart wood and water for it, and that it got periodi-
cally stuck in the mud and required all the horse-
power of the district to haul it out, and that when
the engine wasn’t bogged the wood and water
teams generally were foundered in some ditch and
the engine had to go and haul them out in their
turn, while the whole population sacrificed a day s
work that it might stand round and hooray. But
still the traction engine lent style to the dis-
trict. The parson was understood to allude
to it in his sermon when he preached upon
the advance of human intelligence arising from
the spread of the Gospel, and the editor of the
Thompson’s Lair Ruin had a leader about it in
which he alluded to the gigantic power exercised
by mind over matter, and finished up with a few
remarks about Columbus. Now and then the
engine would reach the station in safety, and then
the driver and the stoker and the timekeeper and
the greasemasber and the consulting-engineer and
the manager would have a three-days’ bust and
drink the health of their beloved Queen ; but
generally the whole concern would capsize into a
crab-hole en route, and then ib would become
necessary to excavate and fib up winches and
donkey-engines and monkey-wrenches, and con-
struct gradients and inclined-planes, and pull and
haul and swear to get ib out again, and by the
time ib was rescued the load of produce would be
tramped flat and its owners would tear around
raving. About once a week the engine would lie
up for repairs, and about once a month it would
be fit for service again, and twice every three
weeks a call was levied upon the shareholders
payable on the second Tuesday after the fourth
Wednesday in the month, and about three times
in every 7 b days the engine would run over
something and inflict grievous bcdily damage
which resulted in a steady average of one ac-
tion every nine weeks or thereabouts. Occa-
sionally, too, the implement would start out
by itself in the depths of the night, and go through
fences and haystacks and blow its whistle in silent
graveyards and lay the whole country waste, and
in the morning the district would be alive with
exploring expeditions, and the enterprising pro-
prietors would go out with nothing on but an
ulster and a pair of boots to check the devastation.
Six months of this work undermined the intellect
of that region past all redemption, and then one
day, when the machine had run over two dogs
and a boy, and raked down a £lOO barn, and the
syndicate had been served with a writ demanding
that they should supply a new boy or repair the
old one and should replace the barn, it was de-
cided to abandon the whole affair and leave it by
the roadside. Accordingly the infernal machine
was run into a larger hole than usual, and the
driver and the stoker and the consulting engineer
and the manager and the auditor and the grease-
master all got off and ran for their lives, and
when the boiler burst and blew the surrounding
cornfields into shivers the only thiDg that was
killed was the reporter of an agricultural paper
who was around taking notes. The commerce of
Thompson’s Lair is now conducted as of old by
means of a bullock-dray, and the traction engine
which lies rusting and mouldering in the cracked
mud, has dropped away into the realms of legend.
The embalmed body of Alexander the
Great has been discovered in an obscure village in
Greece. In his waistcoat pocket was found a bottle
of Marshall’sTonicNervine, which accounts for the
vigour of his reign, the number of his victories,
and the freshness of the corpse.
A cockie’s (‘‘cookie” ia bullock drivereae
for small farmer) eldest son, whose early educa-
tion consisted of hoeing maize, was sent to the
first school that opened in the district. The
teacher endeavoured to impress upon his scholars,
on the Kindergarten system, the knowledge of
things unknown by their resemblance to things
known. Taking the new boy between his knees,
he pointed out that pothooks looked like snakes,
and then proceeded to examine him iipon his
lately-imparted information. “What is this?”
(pointing to a single pot-hook) said the dominie.
“A shnaik, sur.” “And this?” (pointing to a
double one). “Two shnaiks, sur.” “What,
then, would you call this ?” (pointing to a com-
bination of pot-hooks and hangers), “ Two dead
shnaiks and the shtick you kilt ’em wid, sur.”
Aboriginalities.
The tonsorial industry of Toombo (Q.) is
monopolised by a Chow—a fully-developed
heathen of massive proportions, on whom the
blessings of the land have fallen copiously. One
day recently the M.T, for the Barcoo, one
Murphy, was at Toombo, and wanted a shave.
Now, the name of Murphy was abominated by all
Chinamen, for had not its owner advertised
throughout the land his sleepless hatred for the
opium-smoking heathen ! So when Mr. Murphy
strode majestically into Bung Hi’s saloon and,
seating himself before the mirror, demanded im-
mediate attention, the Mongolian opened wide his
almond eyes and glared at the enemy of his race ;
and then he stretched himself and yelled, “ Whaw
for you comee here ? You go ’way ; mee no likee
you Parleemen man Mufy. No good !go way !
go hell!” and away he fled into a back room,
slammed the door, and muttered vengeance in a
foreign tongue, while Murphy, M.P., stood de-
jectedly stroking the stubble on his jaw.
•
The Charters Towers (Q.) post-office was
staggered a good deal last week by the advent of
a letter addressed :
“Mr. Smith
The fiord
Will Find You.”
He wasn’t found, but in returning the letber it
was unfortunately endorsed so that the second
line read : “The Lord (Gone, left no address),”
and people who are acquainted with Charters
Towers say that they suspected it all along.
A man has died from the effects of
“drinking freely undiluted kerosene.” The en-
thusiasm of young and inexperienced grogsters is
apt to lead them astray. Only boozers of long
standing can afford with safety to indulge in such
new stomachic sensations. At least 20 years ap-
prenticeship must be spent in quaffing bush rum,
Farmer’s Friend, sheep wash, and Row’s Embro-
cation before the interior may be trusted to re-
ceive with profound gusto such beverages as
methylated spirits, naphtha, or kerosene. This
stage attained, no known nectar is so divine (so
we are informed) as a pint of carbolic acid, into
which has been grated a chunk of dynamite, im-
bibed from a red-hot goblet through a long-used
gas-pipe.
• # *
When a young man’s mother-in-law’s dead
and patiently awaiting interment, and his pet
pup’s been kicked in half by a horse, it is no time
to visit practical jokes on his defenceless head or
get him on a string. He should be hallowed by
his great grief, and held sacred for seven days. A
little, shrunken, woe-begone man named Molson,
living in the vicinity of Green Gully, Tasmania,
was suffering acutely from the above-mentioned
circumstances one day about a month back, when
advantage was taken of his weakness by a band
of wretches to put up on him an abject trick, dis-
playing depraved taste and a great aching lack of
fellow-feeling and religious sentiment. The little
man was returning from his honest toil on the
evening prior to the day fixed for the funeral,
wearing a thick glamour of pallid sadness com-
mensurate to the occasion, when he was met by
three men and a boy, who gave him a cheerful
greeting, and affected to be pleased to in-
form him that his dear relation-in-law
was not dead, neither was she gone be-
fore, or put aside, or wafted hence—in
fact, she was still a long, strong, voluble ac-
tuality, and had recovered from her cataleptic fit,
and was at that moment waiting at the cottage-
door to whale him with her accustomed freedom
ter net carrying the washicg-water up from the
crcea b- fore e l.f: in the m rnirg. Mols n re-
ceived the intelligence with every demonstration
of profound regret, and seemed to feel his position
keenly. He surveyed his informants with a
heavy eye, and beat his breast and moaned aloud :
“ Alive again ! Oh ! why didn’t they let me
bury her this morning ? I knew something ’ud
go wrong ! I’ve always said delays was dangerous.”
Then he turned himself about with an air of fierce
determination, and, striking for the pub. at Dead-
man’s Flat, went deep into a heavy spree that
lasted five days, and was so dense that he was
quite impervious to external circumstances for
over a week ; at the expiration of which time he
recovered to find his wife’s ma a thing of the past
and himself an orphan-in-law. His first remark
was t “ Then she Vs dead ! Great snakes ! I
must a had ’em bad, 1 thought she’d come to !”
We have been obliged with these facts by a local
paper which furthermore remarks that Molson
has “ sworn off ” for good and all.
* * *
Save us from our instructors ! A new
edition of “Chambers’Encyclopo-dia” describes the
Australian aboriginal as wanting in tenderness
towards his gin and his dingoes. The blackfellow
hunting the kangaroo with a pack of dingoes is
good.
* * *
A Maitland publican has a laughing-jackass,
which makes a deafening noise if you only whistle
at it. Its proud proprietor maddens all the people
who have telephones by setting the jackass laugh-
ing into the machine as soon as he can ring any-
one up.
t* * m
The Leader, says an ordinary ant can
draw 50 times its own weight. What size of a
man a bull-ant can’t lift is not known.
* • *
A settler near Deniliquin has a magpie
which repeats the Lord’s Prayer and drinks
whisky. And yet some people say the bush mis-
sionary exerts no influence in the back-blocks.
The Centennial Hotel, Newcastle.
Mb. Walter Sidney, by the erection and open-
ing to the public of Newcastle of his new hotel,
the Centennial, has revolutionised hotel keeping
in these colonies, though there are not a few who
have seen the place who vow that it is too far ad-
vanced, not only for the Northern metropolis, but
for any part of Australia. However, Mr. Sidney
has had a good experience of catering for the people
there, and doubtless knows what he is doing;
at all events, the travelling public and residents
of Newcastle are indebted to him for a truly noble
hostelry. The Centennial has a frontage to both
Hunter (the main street) and the waterside
thoroughfare, and is equidistant on the latter be-
tween the steamer-wharves and the railway
station, and right opposite the overway bridge.
Both fronts have verandahs and capacious bal-
conies, and the Scott- street end a fiords a magnificent
view of the harbour and surrounding country. At
both ends are bars, two at each, all models of design
and fitting. Round them are hand some parlours and
offices, while the sanitary arrangements are com-
plete. The dining-room is a revelation in refec-
tories and one of the finest rooms in the colonies,
being capacious, handsomely-fitted with all modern
improvements, and especially well-ventilated and
free from all cooking-odours. All along the
ground floor of the hotel are suites of offices and
some bedrooms, chiefly for the proprietor and his
family, as well as the Northern Jockey Club room,
capacious parlours, lavatories, &c. Above on the
top flat, to which easy access is available through-
out, is a passage, the longest in the colonh s, being
246 feet without interruption. For the best
part of this on either side there are bedrooms
interspersed with baths, etc. The bedrooms
are the most luxurious of dormitories—large,
lofty, and fitted a merveille. Each has its
wardrobe of pale oak, mahogany, walnut, rose-
wood, or silver pine with bevelled edges, its
duchesse suite and hand some marble-topped toilet-
stand. All is arranged so that nothing can lumber
the floor. The bedsteads are of the best make,
and each has its wire-wove mattress. The
cretonne hangings are all in harmony with
the furniture and are artistic to a degree. These
were all made and fitted on the premises. Des-
cending to the ground floor we find the billiard
room with two of Alcock’s best tables and as well
appointed as any in the colonies. It is needless
to dilate upon the convenience and cleanliness of
the kitchen and outhouses which are entirely
separated from the guest-rooms, everything being
sent up by lifts. The cellars, it goes without say
ing, are in keeping with the other appointments
The hotel is supplied with milk, poultry, butter,
eggs, and other farm produce from Mr. Sidney’s
place at the junction, and there also the linen
of the establishment is dealt with. Such is the
Centennial Hotel, Newcastle, which it would take
columns to adequately describe. To celebrate its
opening last month by the Mayor, a day’s racing
was held at which the principal event was the
Walter Sidney Handicap.
The most successful of Australian race-
horses can win very little in stakes, as compared
with the English champions. Malua, after being
on and off the turf since 1882, has now got £8522
to his credit, which is less than the Bat'd won
during his two-year-old season. Commotion’s
total of £7706 looks, small beside the £lO,OOO
scooped by Minting in one race, the Eclipse Stakes.
West Australian, Lord Lyon, Gladiator, and
Ormonde won from £15,000 to £lB,OOO each when
they landed the treble —Two Thousand, Derby,
and Leger. No wonder the Hon. James White
thinks of sending horses to England.
John Barry was Mayor of Cromwell, New
Zealand, when, in the flush times of gold digging,
it was the headquarters of the diggers. He was
not a refined person, but he was muscular, and
kept the turbulent population in order. His
method of governing is illustrated by a story in
the “ Antipodean Notes. ” He applied to the
council for a fortnight’s leave of absence that he
might visit Dunedin. It was granted. Barry
overstayed his leave, and thecouncil, beingcffended
thereby, passed a vote of censure on him. On
arriving home, Barry attended the next meeting
of the council, over which he presided. The
minutes of the previous meeting were read, in
which occured the entry, “a vote of censure was
passed on the mayor for overstaying his leave. ”
“Who proposed that vote ? ” demanded the mayor.
“ I did ” answered a member, standing up. John
stepped from the president’s chair, clutched the
member and saying, “ There, take that!” felled him
to the ground. “ Who seconded the resolution ? ”
asked the mayor, resuming his seat in the chair.
No one answered. “ Then, ” said the mayor, “as
there was no seconder, it’s informal. Mr. Clerk,
Ecratch it off the minutes. ”


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whit*
Patbnt Rom.bb Ft.oub, It is the greatest success of the
age.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Perfumery Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on this Scent.
. At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, dose to se»
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Personal Items.
L. L. Smith’s coat cost 160 guineas;
Dr. Stanton Cost succeeds Moncure Con-
way at South Place Chapel, Finsbury.
Cardinal Moran is returning to Australia
per Orizaba, with a number of priests.
With all his glory, Parkes ha 3 not yet had
his name pub bo a patent-medicine besbimonial.
The executors of the late Hon. Henry
Moore, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), have paid probate duty
on £150,000.
The last novel of Emile Zola has been re-
fused circulation in Russia, England, and Thar-
gomindah (Q ).
The degradation of the British peerage
continues. Lord Tollemache has become a brewer
and owns G 9 pubs.
The new Emperor of Germany contemp-
tuously speaks of the Prince of Wales, &c., as
“my mother’s friends.”
Premier M‘llwraith, of Queensland, never
speaks without frequently bringing in the phrase
“knows perfectly well.”
Says Jack Want, Q.C. “ Doctors are
like lawyers—they must disagree ; we couldn’t
get a living if we didn’t.
The late James Squire Farnell’s maternal
grandfather, .one Squire, was the first man who
brewed “tanglefoot” in N.S. Wales.
Mr. Duffy, barrister, examining a witness
in Melbourne County Court: “ Now, sir, can you
tell me anything you have forgotten ! ’
Mr. R. E. O’Connor, who is coming to the front
at the N S.W. Equity Bar, was formerly on the
staff of the Sydney Freeman's Journal.
Mr. Phil. Robinson seems to have forsaken
literature for lucre. He is now posing in Victoria
as the Grand Vizier of the Princess Midas.
There are in Europe at the present time
108 princes of a marriageable age, while of prin-
cesses in a similar position there are only (>(>.
A pastoral staff has been presented to Dr.
Moorhouse, Bishop of Manchester. The Doctor’s
favourite staff, however, is that £lOOO a year.
There were 30 Masonic advertisements in
the Sidney Morning Herald in connection with
the funeral of the la be James Squire Farnell.
Dr. Rose, MP., and his friend, Mr,
J. H. Weeding, are at it again in the Victorian
law-courts—over some land transactions this time.
The Philadelphia Press says that the
Emperor of Russia and the King of the Sandwich
Islands drink regularly to excess and are victims
of delirium tremens.
Pritchard Morgan’s gold mine in Wales
was a failure as far as public subscription was
concerned, the underwriters having to come
to the front and settle.
Before he discovered the cholera microbe,
Robert Koch was known simply as Dr. Koch.
Now he is Herr Geheimer Medicinal Rath Pro-
fessor Doctor Robert Koch.
Bishop Barry, of Sydney, denies that he
has resigned. We quite believe this. His lord-
ship won’t throw away the bone until he gets a
fair grip of that big shadow.
An old-time Australian R.C. missionary i 3
likely to be the new Bishop of Kildare, Ireland.
Father Andrew Phelan is one of those whose
names have been submitted to the Pope.
The richest young man in England is Cap-
tain Harry M'Calmonb, a cousin of Earl Cairn«,
who has inherited a fortune which, when he gets
it five years hence, should amount to £0,000,000.
In Sydney Divorce Court last week, Jus-
tice Windeyer heard a case in which the respon-
dent bore the Scriptural name of Mary Magdalen
•and one of the co-respondents was hight Solomon.
Father Gonsalvo Kavanagh. the eloquent
R.C. teetotal orator, belongs to the “Ordtr of
Preachers,” and therefore affixes “O.P. to his
signature. “ 0.P., ' for a teetotaller, is excellent.
Douglas Alphabet Sladen has written a
ipoem on the Armada. All sensible men were
aware that the Armada fizzle had been overdone,
but no one ever dreamt it would get as low as this.
Sir Robert MoleßWorth, the famous Vic-
torian Equity Judge, has disposed of his Haw-
thorn property to a syndicate for £lOO,OOO. He
.purchased the land 30 years ago for a few hundreds.
We read that “Lord Augustus Loftus
now presides over the bookkeeping department of
the perfumery store recently opened by Lady
Loftus. They have no other means of support. ’
Spofforth, “ the Demon ” bowler, has
arrived in England. When Spof. left Australia
he had with him a wife and one child, but another
'little “ Demon ” made its appearance while at sea.
The three leading lights of the Australian
Natives’ Association in Victoria -Purves, Q.C.,
Field Barrett, and Dr. MTnerney—are lawyers.
One scarcely knows whether to accept this as a
happy augury or not.
The faces in one of the illustrations
•attached to Rider Haggard’s story in the summer
number of the Illustrated London News are
'remarkably like those of the members of an
eminent publishing-firm.
Just before the German Prince Christian
married the popular Princess Helena of England,
ihe had so little spare cash at his disposal that he
had no servant, and occupied a back room on the
third floor of a French hotel at Bs. a day, board
'included.
Bret Harte has got himself elected
respondent in a first-class divorce suit. ~r e
reading those charming stories of his about the
love-entanglements of the women of the v,ierra|,
we have often wondered where Bret got all his
experience.
One day the Ahe referred to < the “ apos-
• tacy,” and on the next to the “ conversion of the
i Princess Helena of Schleswig-Holstein. This
suggests that the sub-editor must have undergone
a change in his religious views during four-and-
twenty hours.
During the life of the late German Emperor
‘William the civilised world provided bread and
butter for 6 popes, 8 emperors, o 2 lungs, 6 sultans
and about 100 presidents. Some of uhese a,re still
1 eating, but the jaws of the majority are tied up
with gxave-cloths.
The rumour that our dear old friend Prince
Albert Victor is to marry the Princess of Anhalt-
Dessau, i* revived in consequmce o: the Princess
of Wales, his mother, having made a special visit
to Dessau to see the young woman. It would be
a good marriage for the prince, as the girl is one
of the richest heiresses in Europe, fairly good-
looking, of genial disposition, and able to play
the banjo.
Rajah Inglis modestly observes that his
father belonged to the class to which the late Dr.
Lang belonged. Dr. Lang was a great man; ergo
Ing’is pere was a great man. Which somehow
reminds us of the old Scotch proverb, “ Many a
guid cow hath but a puir calf.”
't'his, from a rival journal, is very fine :—•
“ The San Francisco EVexixo Bi ij.etix is one of the
most respectable arc! moral of all the daily journals of
California. It is valuable ani interesting. Ithasamode
of lying by indirection, more audacious and cowardly
than aDy of its competitors. ’’
That renowned orator, Dan O Connor,
made a “ grate spaich ” at the annual breakfast of
the Sydney Holy Catholic Guild. As be was
talking to Romans he carefully avoided all re-
ference to the ancient “ Grakes,’ but, according
to newspaper reports, he used the word ‘‘ object ”
six times in as many lines.
Mr. Alexander Fraser, who died in Mel-
bourne, last week, wis not exactly an Adonis.
In the roaring forties he had the reputation of
being the well, “plainest” man in Australia,
but the title slipped away from him years ago,
and of late the old gentleman quite passed muster
in a crowd of “representative citizens” and
C.M.G’s.
Admiral Ryder, K.C.8.. was drowned re-
cently in the Thames. He was G 3 years old, and
was of a literary turn, though he only published
one book —, n“How to Save Life from Drown-
ing.” This volume gave a list of about :130 dif-
ferent things that a man should do when he fell
into the water, nrd the author was engaged doing
them himself w hen he died.
Fifteen people write us to state that
J. H. L. Zillman, editor of the D.D. r ' a/.ette, is
not an ex-missionary to the aborigin s as stated,
but the son of an ex-missionary. We are glad to
hear this. It grieved us to think that anyone but
a religious-paper editor could dream of trying to
teach an Australian nigger about King Solomon,
and Lot’s wife, and so on. Zillman, senior, seem-
ingly did these things, but from what we see of
THE LATE MR. R. L. SEHDON,
(CAPTAIN OF THE ENGLISH FOOTBALL TEAM.)
[Zillman, junior’s, paper, he has not inherited his
pa’s little foolishness.
Mr. Johnson, permanent head of the
N.S W. Public Instruction Department, who is
clean-shaven and sable-coated and otherwise of
clerical appearance, the other day visited a
Roman Catholic denominational school. Now, it 1 s
the fashion in all schools, when an inspector ar-
rives, for the children to stand up; in R_C.
schools it is the fashion, when a priest appears, for
the children to kneel down. When Mr. Johnson
entered the children knelt down instanter, but the
Johnsonian blessing was withheld.
The Guinness Brewery Co., floated a year
ago for £(5,000,030, has declared a dividend of 15
per cent.
[ln the grounds of a Potts Point mansion
is a tortoise which came from the South Seas
over ,60 years ago. There is a local tradition that
■Sydney will never go ahead until that tortoise
■dies.
An indignant , British 3well states in a
Jjondon paper that lie invited a ‘'distinguished
actor ” to stay for a couple of days in hi« apart-
ments, and that the elevated tragedian returned
regularly at four o’clock a.m , and came upstairs
on all fours. He also g;ave a wonderfully accurate
rendering—on the landing—of feeding time at the
(Gardens ; he borrowed almost ah the
dress-shirts in the house and took them away with
him, and he drank up quite all the liquor on the
premises. We inquire in pained accents if this is
meant for Irving.
With reference to a paragraph which ap-
peared in The Bulletin of 25th August in re-
gard to the death at Harwich, England, of Dr.
John Erazer Ewan, “ the circumstances attending
whose demise were,” it was stated, “of a highly
suspicious character,” we are now assured on the
best authority that no suspicion of any sort was
connected with the lamented death of the deceased
—who died from natural and obvious causes —viz.,
cardiac syncope attendant on acute pharyngitis.
Dr. Ewan’s remains, which have been interred in
the family fault at Rookwood, did not leave Eng-
land until 13 days after his death.
POLITICAL
POINTS
By the coal miners’ strike Newcastle loses
£15,000 in wages weekly.
The German army costs per man one-third
of what is spent on the British army per man.
Oyer £1,000,000 worth of Viitorian manu-
factured goods are bought up by N.S.W. annually.
There are more than 40 000 family resi-
dences in Ireland which consist of one room built
of mud.
Melbourne Age seems to be favouring a
project for the absorption of Tasmania by
Victoria.
The N.S.W. Land Act of 1884 has, after
all, outlived its framer. It has also outlived the
N.S.W. farmer.
Parkes says that good Government con-
sists in “ orderly and .sober administration.” That
sounds like flogging a dead horse.
Alfred Deakin says the policy of his
Government is almost wholly devoted to the de-
velopment of the country districts. ■
Says Buskin in Fors Clavigera, “ Every-
one who takes a pension from Government goes
into the workhouse on a grand 3cale.”
dohn Dodds, of Victoria, says :—“ The
stock-tax is a mosquito-tax : it does not draw
much blood, but causes great irritation.”
Cardinal Moran has doclared to an Irish
deputation that the Australians were the happiest
people under the sun, and that the standard of
Imperialism was “for the colonies a symbol of
peace ’’—and he should have added, if he could,
and plenty.”
The Haynes is going to address the elec-
tors of St. Leonards in re construction of a high-
level bridge. From a low-level view, we presume.
The Petit Journal recently appealed to
Bismarck to restore Alsace and Lorraine to France,
to kiss and make up, and then both have a go at
England.
Of 120 British generals, Wolseley says,
109 are unemployed, and drawing an average
allowance of £7OO a year from the country. Poor
country !
The Pall Mall says that “ Imperial
Federation will grow out of Home Rule.” We
hope that Australia will grow out of Imperial
Federation.
The number of soldiers on the European
peace-footing is now 3,920,000, while on the footing
of war, the number of soldiers would reach
10,000,000 men.
The Gillies Deakin Ministry, now all-
powerful in Victoria, proposes to put a tax on
eggs. What admirable foresight! There will be
an election in a few months.
The French are acknowledged to have the
finest guns and projectiles in Europe. Their
Ferminy shell has been shot through an armor-
plate twenty inches thick, and came out with its
steel point uninjured.
President Purve3 told the A.N,A. that
“Australia began its existence as a civilised
nation with the most travelled population that the
world ever saw.” He has evidently been reading
the “History of Botany Bay.”
The last French rifle, as described, has a
ball so small that a soldier can carry two hundred
and twenty rounds, shoots with a new smokeless
powder, and its bullet pierces a brick wall eight
inches thick at five hundred yards.
It is asserted that the late Mr. Farnell,
M. had not once stood in his electorate
(Redfern) since he was returned at the last
N. general election. This must be an error
a?, 01 his way home to Petersham by rail, he mist)
at least have passed through it.
In five years the Governorship cost Queens-
land £36,000 ; in the same period the Premiership
cost £6OOO. A problem in political values might
be worked out of this. As the Governor is to the
Premier so is the Premier to the people; or, as
the Premier is to the Governor so is the Governor
to the Gueen.
The English Government voted £7OOO
towards the expenses of a Commission to the Mel-
bourne Exhibition, as compared with £12,500
voted by Germany and £lO,OOO by the l nited
States for the same purpose. And the drivellers
of the Colonial Institute maunder about the affec-
tion borne by England for her children in the
Southern Pacific!
It is cabled that Misrct Pasha, the Turkish
commander at Er/.eroum, has been placed under
arrest for asking for his arrears of pay. This is a
suggestive item for the petrified military Gamps
of Great Britain and Ireland. It is calculated
that the Duke of Cambridge’s umbrella Wilt open
automatic illy from horror and astonishment when
it hears the news.
The St. Andrews Literary and Debating
Society, Summer Hill, N.S.W., has, so says the
daily press, decided the question “ That a limited
Monarchy is preferable to a Republic” in the
affirmative. An ancient subject of debate was as
to whether it was better to be a Socrates dissatis-
fied, or a pig satisfied. From Socrates no intelli-
gence has reached us lately, but judging from the
tenor of the above clipping, the “gentleman who
pays the- rint” has seen no reason to alter his
opinion, and has no desire to change his condition.
It seems significant that the British and
the German Governments have resolved for the
future to have the same magazine-rifle, the same
cartridges, and the same powder (subject to some
experiments) in large and small arms. But they
are not to have the same bayonets. At a recent
contest of bayonet v. lance at the Agricultural Hall,
Islington, the bayonet doubled up and its owner
—quietly, so as to suggest that it was nothing new-
straightened it out and went on as if nothing un-
usual had taken place. Roars of laughter and
cries of “Good old Brummagem !” followed.
Major Adin, of Vallejo, California —a
gentleman who began life as a labourer in a
blessed Freetrade land, and then emigrated to a
Protected country and became an aggravating
millionaire—recently offered a little remark at a
political meeting. It ran thus :
“The best argument in favour of Protection versus
Freetrade lies in the fact that more than half a million of
those blessed with Freetrade leave their own countries
every year and come here to suffer the miseries of Protec-
tion and remain here until they grow rich on it.”
If Parkes will kindly offer one of his lucid ex-
planations a favourable opportunity now presents
itself.
The great art of stonewalling is coming
into vogue in N. Z. In the Assembly the other
day, Mr. Fish talked about nothing for five hours,
and five hours of solid, unmitigated Fish is worse
even than Neild. Further, our old acquaintance
Mr. Sydney Taiwhanga, a stumpy Maori gentle-
man with a damaged hat and a reputation for
being more ordinary, from a mental standpoint,
than any other man in the House, floored every-
body by holding out for seventeen hours. Even
Fish takes a back seat now, and the Cornstalk
with the iron jaw ranks, by comparison, as a silent
man, whose brevity is almost painful to his
auditors.
A terrible instance of the evils of manhood
suffrage is quoted from Rockhampton (Q.). At
the declaration of the poll on sth May last one
Murray had his arm broken in the crush, and,
after lingering till 22nd July, he died of mortifi-
cation, amputation, and chloroform. The moral
of this sad incident is that representative institu-
tions are played out and general elections are
dangerous to human life and should be abolished.
If Australia were bossed by an absolute monarchy,
and the links which bind us to the beloved mother
country were drawn closer, and everybody were
at once made a duke, such accidents as this would
be rendered impossible.
The N.SAV. Minister of Public Instruc-
tion, in a letter to the President of Melbourne
Exhibition, expresses a hope that there will
speedily be “no artificial barriers to impede the
free, full tide of commercial activity and mutual
exchange of commodities which should exist every-
where, but especially between brethren of one
race and a common realm.” The Age remarks
that ‘ 1 under the cover of a polite letter of con-
gratulation,” Mr. Inglis takes the opportunity of
“putting forward a little Freetrade sophistry.”
For our part, we regard the hon. gentleman's
gratuitous advice to Victoria, of which at the time
he was the guest, as a fine sample of Freetrade
cheek.
On dit that one of the chief proofs which
the Times relies on to establish the alleged fact
that the famous Parnell letter, a facsimile of
which was published in the Times, was written by
the ‘ uncrowned king ” rests on a question of ink.
The original of the published facsimile letter is,
it seems, written in violet. This was shown to the
Governor of Kilmainham, who declared no such ink
had ever been in the jail. This appeared to upset
the theory, but it is now stated that the “ No
Rent ” manifesto which was certainly signed by
Parnell while in prison, is written, according to
experts, in precisely the same ink. Another point
is that the ink in which both are written is what
is called invisible ink, and has to be submitted to
a process, before it appears in its present dis-
tinctive violet hue.
Said Ingersoll recently : -
" Mere liquor does not make drunkenness. The moral
question of the whole thing is to have the burden cf
Government re3t as lightly as possible. Temperance
walki hand in hand with liquor. Ido not think that if
the Mississippi River ran pure whisky, and the banks
were loaf-sugar, and the flats gre w mint, and the bushes
were tea-spoons and tumblers, there would be one more
drunken man than now. lam perfectly willing tohave those
who wear foreign velvets and drink Chateau Yqueai pay
the taxes, but I don’t want to have the fellow who drinks
the domestic article taxed one cent.
Replies an American paper :
“ The eloquent colonel is in error. Mere liquor does
make drunkenness, and temperance does not walk hand
in hand with liquor. If the Mississippi River ran whisky,
without sugar, mint, tumblers, or tea-spoons, a tax of one
cent a glass, or gourd, or tin-cupful would pay the
national debt, depopulate Ireland, destroy the Democratic
party, and convert the great valley into a national
cemetery.
They were admiring an engraving, sub-
ject “ Psyche,” in the French Court at Melbourne
Exhibition, and after a spirited discussion they
decided that the name of the goddess was pro-
nounced “Seesh,” with a long-drawn hiss.
Miss Ramsay, a sweet girl graduate with
f olden hair and senior in classics, has mashed the
laster of Trinity College, Cambridge. It must
be beautiful to hear him telling his love in the
dead languages.


METER INDEX
/f*r
?Re s etf/sha Te o/'AfeTtt <//C v? /f 2 / 7 A
- S ? J .
JjjQ At Consumed 6* ff*
71* <£*“** *“/*"/' A
,/* y“* Jjjm
0< l
'Not fo abiUHL.
after cIU /
* c «=s
L '***?/#$ COALS To
I /ViTV/O?ST/. £- y
£u/~3
\ fa 6a.*kL>~.'n
Ucurt's C** 7 *’. 7 r -Jj * ’ 1
f fa ar^‘tL
' ' V//// i /
0$ At,'4 r 9W
/a«' 7 et Sucfi */»/■<* <"0*1 /’ ■
S?J. IJ. r»Jy*f!fr'" r '
Y/ff/yi/J£Wf (t/K/** 17 )/
C)Ot .
CleHiU (7-/ irn /J Ley s
pUN H £"A fl £■
-So aeTy 7T£M <x /& //own/mq B££ "
A/?//) T<s A/A f~7£ CeJccS Clrpo/pC 7/> e 6c/
Cotp face py <l cOore. ct fove 7~0<6e ofa /^// ?Q ) t' ir p n p <
(Jixf ecc/ft&tp • far J~u)a f/^e
(*Ja& Cc Cos/-/y ??&ct face fipac/e. o/ Coa & (<jfacfi / rf ere
/«$ esery rcas op y> o> . eTu/i/bafyq cdece #e rea?
/J
jL os rAn r/S r. 7%/s / ere Co<i > sf~rik e
et C&a.ij &tde-e/o o'ye^-
I U f/ ere s f/s ! u
I c 4 o fi,sroo« 9c/er *o9* As^V^ C r7°
'CoTy*. r “^'^ 6 * C LrJ }y J <L>r Jl-
aoa?^‘/' CookC *- y Ij* rt CO * X
V"*/-£<ro
e A J-* c/a y s °/ oar
-
(* 1 >£/«"?“* x
\ A/jZQ
) *
The Humours of the Coal-Strike.


The Tug of War—Labour v. Capital.
KING COAL (loquitur) : "HELLO! THE JOKER IN THE WHITE GAITERS AND SHINY BEAVER? I’VE NEVER SEEN HIM DOWN A MINE IN ALL
MY LIFE, AND YET HE SKEMS TO WANT TH E WHOLE SAY IN MY FATE.”


Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medioal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a oonstant medi-
oal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
unrein? staff. For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
tendents.
_ Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
Sven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENDON BROS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOR
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTIi UMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALSNb i GQ-, Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O<
Society
Bollinor
Ay Thamp[?]
The lady-fashionist of a Sydney daily con-
by a cler gy m an—a paper, by the way,
.which is famed for its exhaustive reports of synod
and presbytery conferences—thus touches with an
airy pen the vagaries of the light fantastic toe
which pirouettes in London Gaiety Burlesque at
Sydney Theatre Royal
“Miss Letty Lind wears charming costumes, much
longei than we are accustomed to see on the ordinary
dancer ; they come quite to her ancles, then beneath she
is prodigal in her number of lace petticoats, and when
she flings her leg straight out or straight up, which she
frequently does, you see all these cobwebby lace skirts,
which forma costume very pretty and modest. Later,
when Miss Lind dances a Spanish dance with castanets,
and wears a flowered silk dress opening from a full pink
satin skirt, and when she pirouetted around and kicked
JhP bent back then you saw all the petticoats were of
black tulle, and this, if possible, was even more fascinat-
ing in effect than the white ones.”
Oh, dear!
* * *
“The approaching marriage of Mr. Fitz-
gerald, an Australian native, to one of the three
daughters of the eleventh Baron North, is an-
nounced. Mr. Fitzgerald is the first Australian
born gentleman to marry into the peerage.”
(Gabled to Melbourne Herald.)
Here again we have the fine Roman hand
of the S. F. Newsletter man who the other day
told the world to dabble its toes
“ The gem of poetry that never gets sung, the dream of
a picture that never gets painted, the rattling article that
never written, the riddle of nature that never gets
read, the divine talk that never gets talked—why is it all?
The Greek came nearest to singing the song, the Greek
came nearest to painting the picture, the Greek came
nearest to reading the riddle, the Greek came nearest to
talking the talk: now, why was all this ? For this bein<''
so, the Greek’s life was the best of all worth living. The
barbarian loaded his person with more gems ami gold ;
the Roman piled more money in his strongbox ; we emu-
late the barbarian and fall miles behind him ; we pit our-
selves against the Roman and our inferiority is ridiculous.
When Lucullus dined with Lucullus, the most opulent of
modern feeders shows as a swine in the comparison. A
modern army plays at soldiering beside the feats of
Caesar’s legions. We are beaten out of sight at our own
game, and that game one so poorly worth the playing.
Now to answer the conundrums at the head of this para-
graph : Why was the life of one Greek more interesting,
and therefore better worth living, than that of any five
Romans or any 50 Yankees ? The last month’s list of
American hooks contains five titles, all of which mean How
to make Money. Is there anything on this little pill we in-
habit, with less of the fineness of life into it than grubbing
for money ? unless it be snouting for acorns? What girls
those Greeks had ! O my—such girls ! One such <drl
seems worth many acorns. In presence of that sort of a
girl, singing that sort of a song and talking that sort of a
talk, are not coupons only as chaff ? and registered stock
as husks ? Your Greek cultivated his body, and so got a
divine mind into it and a divine girl out of it. Then girl
and mind re-aoted mutually, and that Greek was glad he
was alive. The gems of Persia and the money hoards of
Rome might go to the devil for all of him. The moial
seems to be, look after your corporeal part and the in-
corporeal will then look after itself. The crown of culture
is its girl. Now, the modern girl—well, she isn’t well
made. She is rather the reverse of wholesome. As a
crown, she is something monotonous in the wearing.
That civilization is crude and inferior, where a man of real
oulture needs to change his girls,”
* * *
Says “Huron,” the S. M. Herald’s Mel-
bourne special
“ Age always has its beautiful side, but age coupled
with dignity and chivalric manner is one of the most
gracious sights in all the world. One such I have met
many times since I came here, R. Brough Smyth, a man
well known to all who know of the early days of explora-
tion and settlement. Years ago I had heard of him and
had turned over leaves of books of his in the library of
Sir William Dawson, then Principal Dawson, the noted
scientist—books on geology, ethnology, and meteorology.
I had talked of him to William Bleasdell, the geologist,
the friend of Agassiz and Dana f and who was as familiar
with the noble work Sir Thomas Mitchell had done out
here long before he was Sir, and of the pompous and able
Sir Roderick Murchison. I had tried in those days to in-
terest myself in the great problems of the ages of iron
and stone, hut all that was left were remembrances of the
labours of the great scientific workers. But it all came
hack when I met Brough Smyth. He was the friend of
Charles Darwin and many another whose letters he holds
and many a story he told of the early days of exploration
and achievement. Now he is a grey-haired, dignified old
gentleman whose days of work in ethnology and science
are over, who is full of recollections of old Governors and
of new ones too, who will tell you of Lord Lytton, or
o,ven Meredith, as he is kncwn to the liters' woild, o
his eloquence, his ability, and his Parisian habits, and o
scores of others.”
This would be all very well had there never been
an enquiry years agone into the allegations made
by the officers of the Victorian Mines Depart-
ment concerning the “dignity and chivalric
manner ” of R. Brough Smyth aforesaid. The
writer hereof attended the investigation aforesaid
in the capacity of shorthand-writer, and as he has
a perfect recollection of the enquiry and its
results, it rather surprises him to find
Mr. Brough Smyth, held up to the world,
per medium of an influential newspaper, as a per-
fect type of a chivalrous and dignified and beauti-
ful old gentleman. No man can be ideally
chivalrous who while conciliatory even unto
obsequiousness as regards his superiors, is not
ideally generous and considerate to the weak.
Huron ’ aggravates his offence by remarking
further on :
“ Fuller still of interesting recollections is Mrs. L,ouisa
Meredith, whose name is so familiar to the people of this
continent for her works upon the flowers of Tasmania,
and for her great literary talent. Stores of personal in-
formation she has about Eaglish poets, artists, aotors,
and authors, dead and living, and of historic figures that
belonged to early colonial days—information which would
be of vast interest, it appears to me, to all who think and
read.”
Mrs. Meredith is indeed a gracious and admirable
old lady, and loved by every man, woman and
child who has ever known her. Bor that reason
we don’t at all like to see anybody set her up on a
pedestal next to the beautiful and chivalrous &c.
Mr. Brough Smyth.
• * *
A local tailor writes to the Wellington
(N.Z.) papers Sir,—lt is with pleasure I in-
form you that my wife, Minnie Smith, gave birth
to two girls and one boy last night at 12 o’clock.
lam glad to add that all are doing well.” We
have been asked where all the Smiths come from.
* * «
Glory ! We cut the following from the
Times’ account of the presentations made at a
a recent Queen’s Drawing-Room :—“ Mrs. H
Trelawny Boodle, by the Duchess of Westminster;
Miss Evelyn Boodle, by her mother, Mrs. H.
MRS. YUNKU PPLE : “Its too bad John; you never tell me any of the strange or
startling news that you read in the newspapers now.”
MR. YUNKUPPLE : “Why, what have I omitted?”
ARS. Y.: " That coroners inquest at Botany. A woman is said to have put poison
in her husband’s food.”
MR. Y.: “Pooh! there’s nothing strange or startling about that. Most wives poison
their husband s food every time they attempt to cook 'it for them.” (And
she packed up and went home to her mother's that very day.)
Trelawny Boodle; Miss Flora Boodle, by her
mother, Mrs. H. Trelawny Boodle; Miss Alice
Boodle, by her mother, Mrs. H. Trelawny Boodle.”
Trelawny Boodle! Plantagenet—Blobbs ! Boodle,
by the way, is the. Duke of Westminster’s steward.
What a temptation there must be to scoop the
boodle !
Bishop Webber, of Queensland, at pre-
sent on a trip to England, is sending English
parsons to the posts that fall vacant in his diocese.
Ihe Darling Downs Gazette, pointing out that
in similar circumstances in Boston appeal wa3
k? the law which prohibits the preferment
of aliens,” longs_ for the growth of the same
spirit in Australia. An Australian Parsons’
1 mon would about do.
* * *
Advt. from the Age :
“ Blank.—On , July, at street, M D
youngest daughter of X. and Z. Smith,aged 4 weeks and
2 days.
niu or B'hy.oame to tell me that baby was unwell ;
l he suffering that poor baby went through there is no one
can tell ;
I arrived home at 7, and saw my baby dear,
And that same day at half past 3 our baby left us here.
Inserted by X. and Z. Smith.”
Poor soul ! And yet after all she meant it as
sincerely as Milton meant what he said in
‘ Lycidas ” or Tennyson in his “In Memoriam.”
* * *
Amelia LavveUa, Queen of the Wallis
Islands, in the Pacific, which have just been an-
nexed by France, ordinarily lives in a hub, but
repairs to her palace when visitors are announced.
She _is described by M. Albert Epardeau
a New Caledonian journalist, as an ex-
cellent woman, very intelligent, very clever,
and blessed with a good heart. She is 68 years of
age and has not a white hair on her head. “ The
recipe ?” The recipe is simple and is commended
bo every lady who can spare the time and who can
boast a clever maid. Her Majesty spends five or
six hours a day at her toilette, being indeed,
despite her age, a great coquette. Several of her
tiring maids are exclusively occupied in pitilessly
hunting down ” the white hairs of their Queen.
The joke is that Amelia has a head of hair which
quite pales the advertisements of “Mrs. Allen’s
Regenerator. ” The faster they pull out the white
hairs, the faster the black ones grow ! Another
detail : She never sleeps without having previously
received a thorough massage, like Hammam. The
Queen has lost the little finger of each hand. The
mutilations bear witness to an ancient custom now
abolished. When a near relative died custom de-
manded that you should lose a finger. Queen
Amelia has suppressed this custom often enough
to retain the use of four fingers on either hand.
The Queen is greatly respected by her people, and
her. subjects only approach her with profound
obeisances. Kivalu, the Premier, is the only per-
son who is held less strictly to the observances of
etiquette, but then he has never been insolvent in
all his life.
* * *
The other night 200 undergraduates from
that seat of learning and refinement, Melbourne
University, forced their way into the Centennial
Exhibition— so of the number omitting the usual
formality of paying for admission —ran amok
through the building, shouting doggerel ditties at
the top of their voices and finished up by assaulting
the police and wilfully damaging property. Of
course the Argus takes the part of these delight-
ful young gentlemen, and alludes to the “ esca-
pade ” as “a mere exhibition of youthful spirits,’'
but it would be interesting to know what would
have happened to 200 larrikins from Collingwocd
Flat who had acted in the same way. As it is,
probably nothing more will be heard about the
matter.
* * •
In Melbourne, last week, Elizabeth Some-
thing, copiously described as “a young woman,”
was committed for trial for stealing a gold watch
and chain. There wasn’t any trouble or difficulty
about the matter, and she was run in
with an ease and fluency which contrasted strongly
with the struggles which marked the case of Mrs.
Rappiport. The poet or the prophet or whoever
he was struck an immortal truth when he said
that a lady may rush in where a young woman
fears to tread.
* * •
A German swindler has just obtained
£3OOO from several Melbourne bankers and mer-
chants on the strength of forged shipping certi-
licates. Not long ago the same man palmed himse'.f
on Mr. Grant Duff, Governor of Madras, as a
friend of Prince Pierre Bonaparte, who was then
visiting India. He introduced himself to H. R.H.
in a railway-carriage, and travelled all over India
with him, being regarded by the Governors of the
various Presidencies as a member of the Prince’s
smte. He seems to have got clear away with his
Melbourne booty.
* • *
According to the Paris correspondent of
the S.M. Herald, the Pope charges something
like a fixed tariff for ratifying consanguinious
marriages. . When a wealthy uncle wants to
marry his niece the charge is 30 per cent, of their
entire, fortune; in the case of poor people, the
price is G per cent. The friends of the Papacy
j ustify the enormous price thus charged by the Pope
on the ground, that the Church desires to discour-
age consanguine marriages. During the second
quarter of the present year the Pope has granted
no fewer than 42 permissions of marriage between
uncles and nieces, 376 between brobhers-in-law
and sisters-in-law. Royal personages, we are
further informed, do not pay in advance for per-
mission, bub are expected to “make a present.”
* •
“They propose to start a Foundling
Hospital in Melbourne.”
A daughter of one of the first families of
Geelong, who has blighted the hopes of many a
tond youth of standing*, has scandalised the upper
suckles of that extremely propel* town by
marrying the tall, dark Adonis who was professor
of skating at the local roller-rink.
* * *
Miss Henty, daughter of Mr. Richmond
Henty, of Victoria, has been married in England,
by Bishop Moor house, to Captain Starkey, an
army officer.
« •
Nearly (>OO young men presented them-
selves at one Melbourne suburban barracks as
candidates for enrolment in the police force during
one week. We have seen those young men, and
are of opinion that the size of their feet precludes
them from follow! ng any other calling.
* * #
From S.M. Herald, August 10, 1888
Tf'Oß SALE. 3 second-hand coffins, large sizes cheap.
Office, Newtown Markets.
The above is respectfully brought before the notice
ot football-players, and amateur skaters. An
opportunity which seldom occurs is here afforded.
Cheapness and large sizes.
• • t
Sir W. J. Clarke, Bart, has informed an
Evenin’ ’Erald interviewer that he would like t
see a system of exchange inaugurated between the
colonial and Imperial troops in order that Austra-
lian young ladies might have a chance of seeing
whether English officers can dance and play
tennis and other things that make life pleasant
truly a most weighty reason. The fact is, Sir
William is a most inveterate matchmaker, and is
anxious that some more of his numerous female
relatives should secure scions of the British
aristocracy as hubbies. Both Lord Charles Scott)
and the Hon. Ivo Bligh were captured at
Kupertswood.
* *
In Great Britain, breweries still continue
to be in demand by promoters, for they are the
only, properties that seem to go down with the
British public. Since Guinness started the
brewery fever, scarcely two years ago, no less than
90 brewery companies ba\e been formed, absorb-
ing an aggregate share capital of nearly twenty-
four millions, with debentures for six additional
millions. Apropos of the Australian Bung-float-
ing fever, here is an interesting little story. Some-
body in Sydney having alleged that it was mere
nonsense to say that even an habitual beer-drinker
could at once distinguish one brewer’s beer from
another brewer’s, an interested person set about
convincing him to the contrary. Thirteen mem-
bers of the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery (who are
generally supposed to be always ready to drink
Assist us, Muse, to sing the news
That comes across the water ;
A native-born has been and gone
And mashed a Baron’s daughter.
Good gracious ! now we wonder how
He ever dared to court her ;
And if he saw his pa-in-law
Before he “ asked ” the daughter.
Which of the three can this one be,
The taller or the shorter ?
(Poet’s license in grammar.)
But CM ye gods, it makes no odds,
She is a Baron’s daughter !
No other man Aus-tra-li-an
' Has wooed in such a quarter,
Or had the cheek of love to speak
To any Baron’s daughter.
O ! happy time, O ! moment prime,
When in his arms he caught her ;
What utter bliss to hug and kiss
A Baron’s blushing daughter !
Some lords and earls among our girls
Have made a heavy slaughter ;
But now we’re quits, we’ve given Fitz.
Unto a Baron’s daughter.
No doubt she’ll snub her loving hub.
If he presumes to thwart her,
And box his ear, the haughty dear—
She is a Baron’s daughter.
* Blue blood and wealth.” We drink their
health
In half a pint of porter ;
And here’s “ Long life to Fitz, and wife ”
(We mean the Baron’s daughter).
BALLADE OF CHURCH AND STAGE.
"ridentem dicere verum
Quid vetat?”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If good be in delight, as all men deem,
And grief be bad to bear, as none deny,
Why should we, like the Ogre Polypheme
With only one—aad that a churlish eye—
Regard the revels of humanity ?
Our sports, no doubt, have each their evil part,
But doubtless each its quantum can supply
Of wise admonishment to head and heart.
Such is the function of the Stage, ’twould seem !
Not Athanasius can with Roscius vie.
His woes evoke a sympathetic stream,
His jests—uproarious hilarity.
.But over Life, which seemed a cloudless sky
Lit by the stars of histrionic art,
Mists supervene whene’er to church we hie
For wise admonishment of head and heart.
How awkward are the pews ! The preacher’s
theme,
Though sound and orthodox, is dull and dry !
The choir, wi th bass’s growl and alto’s scream,
Gives forth an unmelodious psalmody !
Then, wherefore waste your hours on these, and
buy
Base wares in an unprofitable mart ?
The Stage preached “ laughter,” but the Church
said “sigh”
For wise admonishment of head and heart.
Envoi.
Hear Esmeralda smg ! see Gringoire die !
Watch Irollo and the Hunchback’s “tierce”
and “ carte ” !
Sermons, whose only text is “ Gaiety ”
For wise admonishment of head and heart.
HUGH W. INNES.
Melbourne.
The Victorians will spend money on a house for
little ones,
And will save distracted motherhood from
crime;
New South Wales will put her thousands into
white Carrara stones
To immortalise the “statesmen” of our time !
A living dog is better than a lion that is dead ;
An infant brain with all its possibilities of good
Is worthier a pillow in a State House than the
head
Of any man of all the noisy politician brood !


SWEET BOltpyiA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 33. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORF, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOFRVK.
Hope Tor the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti-
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132'
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,”
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, etc., who have been
cured by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 66 William Street, Melbourne,
When next yon bake try Pemell’a Snow-whit* Patint
Roller FLorit, and yonr bread will be as white as enow.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
A prominent Civil servant took his seven-
year-old daughter to see “ Drink ” the other week,
and in the midst of the scene where Coupeau has
“the horrors” the child piped out loud enough
for a considerable section of the dress-circle to
hear her : “ Look, pa ! he’s going on just like you
did last week ! ” Pa tried to smile, but he looked
a deal sicker than Coupeau when he comes back
from the hospital.
PERFECT HEALTH !
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hnckings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
anybody’s beer) were accordingly located in one
room, and the various beer samples, representing
nine different breweries, were brought to these
gallant experts by a man who, so that there might
be no collusion, was not permitted to know whose
beer he was handling. In the result there was an
overwhelming majority of votes in favour of the
beer from but the price of such an advb. in
The Bollettn would be £lOOO at the very least.
By the way, what a delicate little compliment it
was to appoint as beer-experts a detachment of
the Paddington Portergafis !
. . «
An “ invitation concert” was given by Sir
James Macbain and Mr. M. H. Davies in the Mel-
bourne Exhibition Building a few nights ago.
While Mr. Cowen and his orchestra were regaling
distinguished visitors inside, the Victoiian public,
who have to pay something like £2OO a day for the
Exhibition music, remained in the outer darkness
gnashing their teeth. Considering that Sir James
Macbain and Mr. M. H. Davies have both more
money than they know what to do with, they
might entertain their guests at their own cost.
* • *
Alderman Benjamin is to be re-elected
Mayor of Melbourne for another year, and hopes
before the end of his term to write himself Sir
Benjamin Benjamin. Sir B. B. will have to pay
through the rose for the honour. How ready the
aldermen are to re-elect a rich man to the
Mayoralty whenever there is any money to be
spent !
The house in Juliet Terrace, Melbourne,
in which a member of the Victorian Permanent
Artillery was burnt to death the other day, is the
property of one of the wealthiest women in Aus-
tralia. Some few years ago a reporter on a certain
Melbourne daily paper was instructed to compile
a list of the landlords who owned houses of ill-
fame in Melbourne, but the record was never pub-
lished. When the managing propiietor looked at
the names he shook his head and threw the copy
into the fire.
» * *
A. toney-looking individual, with several
aliases, has been feeding the Australian book-
makers with a few thousands which he had pre-
viously obtained under false pretences. The wife
of this crafty Juggins warbled in comic opera not
many months ago. Which reminds us that the non-
professional wooers of actresses are generally
rogues or fools —or both.
* * *
What profit there must ba in “ the ac-
cursed liquor traffic,” to be sure 1 Illiterate pub-
licans live in grand houses, accumulate fortunes,
and drive “flash” buggies; their wives wear
diamonds as big as hazel nubs, their barmaids
dress in silk and seal-3kin, and some members of
' the trade become Cabinet Ministers because of
their wealth and nothing more. Breyeries are
immediately turned into limited liability com-
panies with capital subscribed three times over.
And now Mr. Levien, solicitor and M L.A , says
in open court that it is nob unusual for lawyers to
charge 150 guineas for simply applying, on behalf
of a budding publican, for a licence. Verily,
there must be profit in the beer-engine.
• *
The French police have just broken up a
“religious” institution called the “Convent of
Our Lady of the Seven Sorrows.” The establish-
ment proved to consist of two frisky Sisters, both
more than half drunk, an immense number of
empty bottles, a fat priest asleep on a couch, and
a rich old woman who had been entrapped into
the service of the “ Lady,” and who was com-
pelled to supply funis for the orgies under pain of
being thrashed with her own wooden leg.
* * *
A woman at Ambleside (S. A.), has beetn
arrested for burgling her husband’s house. The
poor creature was separated from her lord, and
could not carry on the time-honcuied, legitimate
practice of pocket-picking.
• * ®
The Exhibition commissioners have played
a rather scurvy trick upon the Crown Perfumery
Company, by forbidding the sale of scent or any
other article not actually n anufactured on the
premises. The firm in question fixed up a fine
stand and lovely maidens on the strength of hav-
ing obtained verbal permission—in London and
again in Melbourne— to sell goods over the counter.
And now the faultlessly-attired young man who
bosses this smart little show is advised that he
and his maidens will be violently cast forth if
they further trade upon the public weakness for
smelling lovely. Under these harrow'ing circum-
stances the disconsolate Venuses are waiting for
an opportunity to squiit some of “Our cele-
brated Crab Apple Blossom into the executive
commissioner’s eye. Nasty, mean old things, don t
you think so ?
* * 6
Now that the word-competition and birth-
day-riddle business is becoming stale, the dis-
tressed-widow-with-the-piano industry has once
more been revived in Sydney. The modus
operandi is as follows : —A dealer buys up a
number of second hand pianos, and he has them
cleaned and varnished and made generally pre-
sentable. A house is hired in the suburbs and
one of the pianos is carted off thither, and a young
widow immediately advertises in the papers that
in consequence of the death of her husband she is
compelled to sacrifice her piano. Of course this
fetches a number of people after it, and the
piteous tale told by the ’‘widow, - ’ who is hired by
the dealer, makes an impression on someone, and
the piano is got rid of at about three times its
value. Then after a few pianos have been traded
off at an alarminer sacrifice, the house is given up
and the bereaved one moves to another suburb,
and so the game goes on. Lately, in Surry Hills,
the supposed dear departed hubby of one of these
“widows” turned up at night time in a breezy
state of liquor, and when his better-half refused
him admittance he began saying profane things
and giving gratuitous advice to piano-buyers.
The timely arrival of the dealer, and a pug'listic
encounter, in which the hubby fared rather badly,
however, saved the scheme from total exposure.
• *
When a woman of Terra del Fuego has
reached 45 it is considered that she has fulfilled
her usefulness, and she is at once, as a matter of
course, knocked on the head, baked and eaten.
When a woman is nice enough to eat it is far
better to eat her than to leave her on the shelf.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 29, 1888.
My Dear, Moorabinda,
At the Mayor of Melbourne’s ball, Lady Loch was a
little “ out ” in her choice of jewellery, for she actually
wore a diamond and ruby trinket against a gown of coral
pink satin. However, as another high priestess of
society sported emeralds with pale-blue silk one mustn’t
be too severe on dear Lady L.’s very minor indiscretion.
She might have worn coral ornaments to set off a ruby
gown.
Somebody says that all you require in learning to skate
i 3 “a pair of well-fitting boots, stockings; that show a
MISS IDA BRIGGS,
Age, 21 years; Weight, 6381bs. Will visit Australia in 1889.
gleam of colour, a tailor-made Buit, and a mind utterly
regardless of consequences.”
The matinee at Sydney Criterion on the 22nd inst. in
aid of the “ dead-broke ” members of the French Comedy
Co. went off like a trcdden-on match in the presence of
Lady Carington, and (it follows) a large and fashionable
assemblage, for Sydney sassiety is very gregarious where
her ladyship is concerned, and would smilingly flock to
gaze on a blank wall if she was announced as intending
to gaze on it too. Every seat was taken and many
camped on the d.c. steps, whilst others wandered like lost
souls under the relentless edict of 11 S.R.O. In such a
crowded house few gowns were distinguishable, but the
geaeral effect was very fine indeed. Lady Carington wore
black silk, with trimmings of passementerie, tan gloves,
black lace bonnet, with scarlet ribbon-bows and short
strings. Her ladyship al3o carried a dark crimson parasol
and a black and gold fan ; a well-known society girl ac-
companied Lady Carington, and wore a tailor-built gown
of claret, with vest of green silk, bonnet en suite,; “ E.W.
in a glossy silk hat [completed the Government House
sample. On this occasion one or two dresses that I par-
ti oularly noticed were a bottle-green plush, trimmed with
pale-blue satin, bonnet en suite ; a leaf-brown silk, with the
whole front of skirt and bodice of superb gold and bronze
beading ; a seal-brown velvet gown artistically relier ed
with pale-pink silk. The performance itself was a pot
pourri, commencing with Rignold in an act from My
Partner” and finishing with ‘ Les Femmes qui Pleurent
by the members of the French Comedy Co. ; these two
sandwiching in songs, dances, ventriloquism, pigeons and
boneless demons in a long and diverse programme. The
money result was £l7B.
On the subject of evening dress people are wondering
how much more back we are to see ? Dresses seem to get
an inch lower each season. They are already off the
shoulders; for years they have been cut down to the
waist in front, and so if they are reduced to the small of
the back behind, there won’t be any bodice lfeft to speak
of. I fully expect the society paragraphists of the season
after next will sit down to airily describe how fetching
Miss Dash looked in a “ skirt and waistband ” of such and
such a fabric. Don’t you ?
Whilst in Melbourne, Fred Monte Christo Leslie went to
see the Steeplechase at Flemington. As he viewed the
teeming racecourse he remarked, “You are a long way
ahead of us in Eogland in this sort of thing, and what
crowds i” By the bye, an importunate interviewer ques-
tioned Fred as to what he thought of the Australian
people. Replied the hero of burlesque, “I think the
fcistes of the people here are refined. They have strong
artistic inclinations. They will not stand such rough-
and-tumble things as they do in England. They do not
want things too broad. The first night audiences are not
at all bad; less trying thin the London or country
audienoes by long odds.” Nellie Farran, by-the-way, is
delighted with things Australian. “I shall come again,”
quoth the angel of burlesque. “I shall come, if for
nothing else than a holiday. I shall just get on the dear
old Liguria, put myself in Captain Dixson’s care, and lazy
through a five weeks’ voyage.” Apropos of Miss Farren,
shortly after her landing, Grattan Riggs presented
her with a pretty bangle with silver coin attached-
as “first pay” in Australia.
Critioism of a portly Toorak duchess on the picture of
Phryne (the Chios of the German Court at the Melbourne
Exhibition.) “ Ugh 1 the bold hussy 1" The duohess in
question, by the bye, goes to the theatre in a costume in
which one can count every knot up her spine !
Some time back a newly-married couple were travelling
on their honeymoon trip from Sydney to Brisbane. De-
siring privacy, they engaged a carriage which necessitated
their paying eight fares, and, as a receipt, eight tickets
were issued them. At one of the examining stations, a
ticket-collector entered and a3ked for “tickets.” The
eight tickets were handed him, and he, not being aware
that the compartment wa3 engaged, asked where the
other passengers were. Said the bride, "We constitute
the eight.” “No, my dear,” said the groom, “we don’t. ’
“ I say we do !” she responded. “We don't!” replied he.
Prom this they came to high words, and it ended by their
separating, she, charaoteristioa'ly enough, giving- him one
ticket and keeping the seven herself.
What will we advertise next ? Says a S.M.H. ad.
T OUISE Blank (daughter-in-law to Sir Blank Blank),
Pianists, 37, Blank-street, Blank.
Now that Louise has set the ball a-rolling, I expect it will
soon become an ordinary sight in the dailies to see advts.
like this: “Bridget Murphy, cook (mother-in-law to the
O'Dooley),” or “ Susan Jones, bottle-washer (aunt to the
member for Mud Flat).” For there’s nothing like adver-
tising good connections.
The St. Philip’s (Sydney) Church of England Grammar
School Athletic Sports take place on the 18th September,
at the Association Ground, Moore Park.
“Thy (alleged) sin shall find thee out.” Have you
heard of the dreadful accident ?
The Sydney Metropolitan Liedertafel met to warble at
the New Masonic Hall on the 24th instant, in the pre
sence of an immense crowd, as various in its attributes as
Bpotted print. The fat woman came in a shiny, greasy
black satin which fitted her like her skin, and to cool her-
self she brought into play a huge rose-pink feather fan,
which looked for all the world like a slice of watermelon.
Another fair descendant of our common grandmother who
called for instant annihilation was a girl with a cockatoo
profile who, to make the resemblance more striking, had
brushed her hair (yellow, too !) straight up from her fore-
head in exact resemblance of pretty cocky’s comb. The
performance averaged well, and though some of the
soloists were not as good as they might have been,
the excellent singing of the Liedertafel, made up
for any other defects. Huenerbein, “Lucy” Allpress,
Miss O'Reilly and Harry Hyndes gave the society a good
lift on this occasion.
Petersham Owls held another dramatic entertainment
and dance at the local talking-shop on the 22nd inst.
Most of the dresses were pretty, but the fro3k was a pale
eau-de-nil silk tulle over a matching slip, with corset.
shaped-bodice of eaude-nil satin, niade sleeveless, with
trimmings of eau-de-nil tulle spangled with crystal.
The private skating party at the Crystal Palace Rink in
honor of the birthday of Sir Alfred Stephen was a sym-
metrical success, the sweet-scented decorations of wattle
contributing not a little to the joys of the aiternoon. By
the bye, speaking of wattle, a degenerate school-boy from
Eogland once described it to me as “ that yellow flower
which stinks.” What a libel on the national blossom !
A painful sensation has been created in a certain Aus-
tralian township by the conduct of a newly-married young
man. He belongs to the Hite, and his bride is a dashing
young lady who was engaged several times and who
bounced several lovers before she submitted to be dragged
to the altar. Now, only six weeks after that joyful occa-
sion her husband has hired a man to paint in large letters
in his outer battlements the device, “Mantraps and
spring-guns set here.” There hasn’t been a burglar in the
district since the beginning of that primitive lunatic—
time out of mind, and the whole district is busy enquiring
what man the husband hopes to catch and what he will
do with him after he has caught him. It is a sad, sad
inoident, and should serve as a warning to everybody who
has a wife, more or less.
A man friend of mine tells me that the most agreeable
little supper he has ever attended took place one night
last week, when he drank beer and ate beef-olives at
12 30 a.m. at the lodgings of a certain rather charming
theatrical lady who took the opportunity of reading aloud
to her husband, and to my friend and the rest of the
little company, the heap of amatory epistles which she
hadreoeived from unknown “ mashers ” sinoe her arrival
in Sydney.
Tne very latest fad at “ Home” is the fingerless dinner-
glove. These, by the bye, are not those dreary “mittens”
which make everyone lcok like an old maid, but are made
of kid, and their advantage is that their wearer can sport
all her rings whenever she negotiates her hash abroad.
By-theby, this fashion has the delightful qualify of being
eligible for home manufacture, for every girl knoivs
enough to cut the fingers ofi her gloves and then stitoh
round the stumps!
Apropos of fashion, I read that " A pretty fanoy of the
season is to have the foot and ankle of the stocking black
as far up as it is supposed to be shown 6ven by accident,
and the rest of the leg of some bright colour such as
green, terra-cotta, or even flesh-colour, the line of divi-
sion being concealed by a band of embroidery.” Very
pretty, isn’t it ? But I think they will have a demoralis-
ing effect, for a woman with a pair of piebald hose of this
pattern will spend her time either in going up ladders in a
high wind, or she will give in to a wild desire to take her
exercise on her head.
Bad news for the admirers of the sylph-like woman ! A
London leading modiste has announced that women are
slowly and steadily getting larger, and the small woman
seems about to vanish off the face of the earth, giving
place to a deluge of large ladies with oily voices and
jowls like the side of a ham, who walk with a waddle and
have no perceptible waist-line —the sort of woman (to be
local) who might be mistaken for a bathing-box if she
started to “do ” the sands at Coogee.
Latterly we have heard a great deal about the callous-
ness of smokers, on the railway and everywhere else, and
as most women stem to regard this much-abused class as
Fiends (with a big F) who, with pipe in mouth belching
forth clouds of smoke, ride rough-shod over the rest of
humanity and have Svery thing their own bad way, it may
probably surprise these judicial females to learn that the
other day, in a Sydney train of nine cars, only one half-
car was reserved for first-class smokers !
In America, the latest invention is alleged to be a fabric
looking like silk which is a non-conductor of electricity.
Already the laws of the country have abolished banging
and substituted the electric chair, and a Murkan papa r
announces that “the chair already seems to us like a
brutal contmance, and, in order to make the poor con-
demned things as comfortable as possible, this fabric has
been invented. A dress can be made of it, and we will
hire a pretty girl to put it on, and sit in the poor fellow's
jap, so that he can die hugging her.” Gorgeous idea,
isn’t it? Calculated to lead to agreatincrea.se in crime
though, don’t you think ?
I rtad that, in England, a master “ having cause to dis-
miss a servant may endorse that cause upon the servants’
earlier and commendatory testimonials thus destroying
the value of these.” If this obtained in Australia, what
amusing reading Bridgets “kara&ters” would be>
wouldn’t they? Something like this, I suppose: “Mary
Jones, housema’d, dismissed because my husband parti-
cularly requested that she should always let him in of an
evening”; or “Bridget O Hooligan, cook, dismissed be-
cause four of my family succumbed to dyspepsia within a
week.” Or else, “William Smith, coachman, dismissed
because my wife admired his figure.”
Aproijos of matinees, if this particular institution
is to obtain in Sydney the “high hat” controversy will
rise from the stalls to the dress-circle. At the
Criterion matinhe one or two three-storied top-knots
kept sitters behind them “ on the dodge ” throughout the
entire performance. I think that there should be a law
passed that every woman who wears towering head
gear to any place of amusement be made to kneel.
Open to criticism—A fashionable woman at the theatre.
Gem from “Monte Christo, Jnr.” “What could you
have better than a soldier for a lover? 1 ’ “Why, two
sailors /”
Rumour says that in Dunedin (N.Z.) the girls skate so
much, both summer and winter, that they are all becom-
ing lop-sided.
At a very “ swagger ” Sydney restaurant, the other
day, as a diner took a copious ladle of soup, in the bowl
of the spoon reclined a gigantic cockroach ! On remon-
strating with the genius in a dress-suit on the appearance
of this unwelcome insect, Jeames replied : “ Oh, lor,
sir 1 wy that haint nothink ! The kitchen’s full of ’em !”
I sse that the latest London masculine fashion
(only introduced at the last Ascot race meeting) is
already appearing on the Sydney Block, and consequently
our trousered “ bong tong” now show more than a glimpse
of snowy shirt-bo3om over which billows a scarf like an
air-pillow. Speaking of men’s fashion, those sprawley
“gutterpup,” “Buttercup,” or tan boots so generally
displayed by our gilded youth, are, in England, now con-
sidered “featful form” aod are relegated to the book-
makers, the “genteel penc,llers ” of the racecourse, et
cetera. Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Something U«w In Sewing Machine*.
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT!
THE restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of
Immense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our calling
s to relieve the home-mother of all that may weary
her in sewing, and to make the same throughout, a
pleasure. That we have during the last seven
years succeeded in so doing; scores of thousands
will testify. And to-day we are supplying a
machine whose range of work is absolutely com-
plete, transcending the hopes and dreams of years.
The construction and form are such as to place it
altogether above and beyond competition, for the
truth of which assertions, as of the following, we
humbly request that your own eyes may be the
Judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
tx the public is, cash, eighteen shillings, nWe
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for
blankets, woollens, or other materials; you may
do over-casting or top-sewing—never before pos-
sible with Sewing Machines—as fast as you can
feed the work. And, above all, you can make
single barred or double barred button holes and
eyelet holes with the most marvellous precision
and perfection. Herein, the fingers of the
practised seamstress cannot with the greatest ex-
penditure of time and labour, produce work of
similar quality. And remember, the Machine-
made button hole, in addition to its beauty,
is inherently far superior, for each stitch
Is Looked. Button holes which ought to
embellish a garment, are often only a disfigure-
ment. Look at our samples and judge the effect
of fine work for yourself. By all means have
good work instead of bad, especially when you
can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it —we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of
the arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods
to be sewn freely to pass underneath. This had
to be accomplished without increasing the weight
of the machine. In fact, the Beale runs with
wonderful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent,
all clicking sounds having been obviated. As is
well known, a good test of the finish of any
mechanism is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar a,nd cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, la
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of In-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
\Ve have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Catalogues and Samples Free by Post.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium,
upon EASY TIME-PAYMENTS
s. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mo': Baking fovdoro, Orient Squat: Slat,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
' SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PEBSIAN SBEESET.
&0., &0.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
IFE PRESERVATION;
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any cokmial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Becketfc Street Wust, Melbourne.
AGING SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
QOGKTOWN, QUEENSLAND*
TO lET
FOR A LONG PERIOD TO A GOOD
TENANT,
Allotment 5 of Section 14, Town of Cooktown,
lately the property of W. J. Hartley, Esq., and
first sold at a fancy price ; it is without exception
UNEQUALLED AS A BUILDING SITE,
and suioable for a
GRAND HOTEL, COFFEE PALACE, or
MERCHANT’S WAREHOUSE,
Besides having the advantages of frontage to
the wharves and Endeavour River, it has still
another and greater one, in having a
GOVERNMENT RESERVE
on either side, so that the
RISK OF FIRE
is reduced to a minimum which is a serious item
in the erection of large premises in our Northern
Territory.
Particulars! as to “Term of Lease,” &c., will be
supplied to Principals only on application to
W. R. SMITH, .
Auctioneer, &c., Cooktown.
Idyll of a ball. Sentimental Ho : “ How
often have I seen you ? ” Sweet Miss (interrupt-
ing) : “Where?” S.H. : “In my dreams.” Sweet
Miss (ingenuously): “ You must have seen mamma
as well, for lam never without her. Doesn’t she
look funny in her nightcap ? ”
They had to conceal their love. The
parents were totally opposed to the match, and
they had to cajrry on the usual sub ros>a lovemaking, i
One afternoon they had met by a pre-arranged
accident, and they were going for a walk in the
suburbs. They came up * quiet street and found
a whole row of carriages waiting apparently for a
funeral. The procession was j ust starting, and as
they came up one of the attendants most politely
took off his hat and waved them into a carriage.
They did not hesitate. They stepped in, the door
was closed, and away they went. They had a
sweet time of it. The funeral over, the polite
coachman asked where he should drive them to.
He was told, and they were taken back to town.
“Whose funeral was ii£” asked the young lady’s
friend, to whom the story had been told. “We
didn’t know; we don’t know now. But it was
lovely. ” —English papert.
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Tramway Handicap, run August 25th, 1888 . 4000
Subscribers at 10s. each. Frst Horse, £800;
Second, £250; Third, £l5O ; Starters, £250 ; Non-
starters £250 (divided amongst them), and 100
Cash Prizes of £3 teach. Tke Hawkesbury
Handicap, run September 15th 1888. 2000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First Horse, £400; Second,
£200; Third, £100; Starters, £100; Non-starters,
£lOO (divided amongßt them), also one of the £5O
Cash Awards of £2 each. Hawk esbury Handi-
cap, 1000 SulmcribersafciJOs. each. The Melbourne
Cup, run November Bth, 1888. 10,000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribe rs are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “Australia,' oare of Mr, ,'Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Offioe,
iGeorge Street, *sydoey, N S W,
Business Announcement.
EWT O N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETM AKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
: S 3
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des’gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
Drawing room cabi.
NETS,
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb,
PIANOFOEffiFCS by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUEELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vhby OOMPtlll
Assobtmbnt,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bod
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair ancTcoucii, tor
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOOKING Ea SY CH ' IRS, elegant and rest*
ful —a speciality. Newton & La^ib.
T> EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13a. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,;
Chests of Drawers, from 10s.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND L A mTb]
furniture and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
RPRTNO * O’OONNETX STREETS
Cardiff, whose hard nut injured Sullivan’s,
and led to that slugger’s downfall, was recently
knocked out by Killen, who has already bested
that other newspaper champion, Kilrain.
A man named Webb was publicly caned
up IN orth the other day by an irate female. The
wherefore is unknown. “Oh! what a tangled
web we weave when first we venture to deceive.”
Mrs. James Brown-Potter’s photograph
has been taken in 140 different attitudes. None
of them, however, include the attitude necessary
in sewing a patch on the ceiling of Brown-Potter’s
pants, or doing up his other shirb. — Exchange.
Two sisters of Auckland (N.Z.) in en-
deavouring bo outrival each other in the smallness
| of their circumferences laced so tight that one
j died, and the second was reduced to a precarious
condition before she could be induced to cut the
string.
Thus a southern evening paper, in its own
chaste and cultured style : “A disgusting scene oc-
curred in the Domain this morniog. A quarrel en-
sued between two inebriates of both sexes, when the
woman picked up a bottle and smashed it over the
head of the man, who is named David Thomp-
®trange to say, that par. was not headed
ifrn loody Bottle does its Brutal Business,
nor j, 7 e . Sexes strive for Supremacy in Slaugh-
ter. Phis was an oversight which must never
occur again.
Poor old Chronic Hard up says he has at
last discovered the high road to fortune. Take
this path and you will surely find it, he alleges.
Start as a professional tipster under a nom de
plume. Tip every horse in the race that has the
remotest chance of winning. You will thus give
for a certainty several of your numerous clients
“ the real M‘Coy.” You will thus become rich,
x ou can then buy race-horses. You may now
make a “book.” You must now succeed. Tip
your own horses to win. Then “ lay ” against
them and so Savez vous ?
From the Launceston (Tas). Daily
Telegraph
. A Question of Propriety.— At a recent fancy dress skat-
ing carnival in Hobart, one of the gilded youths of the
gay Tasmanian metropolis exhibited a refined and elegant
teste m dress, by assuming the character of a convict.
H.E the Governor was present, as was also a prominent
member of Parliament, who directed Sir Robert’s attention
to the questionable company he was in, and passed
certain very caustic remarks upon the costume assumed
by the gifted impersonator. To his perfeot delight .Sir
Robert remarked—“ Yes, that is my son ; but had! known
his intention of assuming that dress, he certainly should
not have appeared in it. ” In extenuation, it has to be
admitted that the representation was most successful, and
on all hands the young gentleman was congratulated
upon having supported his character as though to the
manner born.
Drums which nobody can boat, according
to all accounts, have been brought under our
notice by Dr. Nicholson, of William-Street, Mel-
bourne. To all who enjoy a full sense of hearing
drums are an acbive source of sorrow, especially
with two sticks going at one time, bub Nicholson's
Drums bring comfort to people who can’t hear at
all. They are elegant little instruments, and can
be easily pushed into the head of any man, woman,
or child that turns a deaf ear to the doctor.
Astounding cures are credited to them in many
great cities, an enduring testimonial to their
success being the Artificial Ear Drums manufac-
tory in America. Their hidden influence is bring-
ing the old, ungainly ear-trumpet into richly
merited contempt, and for further particulars read
Dr. Nicholson’s pamphlet. The drum is a
remarkable instrument, indeed.
An American paper thinks that if there
are two people alive who have put both feet into
it they are the Duke of Marlborough and his
transatlantic bride. The duke himself is, from a
social point of view, a bounced man. Her
Gracious has turned her broad and comprehensive
back on him, and as he is hard-up as well as shady
society in general has done the same. The
duchess, on the other hand, has only a life-interest
in her fortune, and can’t even leave a cent to her
children. Consequently it appears that she has
married for a social position which the duke can’t
give her, and he has married for money which the
duchess hasn’t got, and if the lady should have
the ill-luck to be taken away at an early age
leaving him with a lot of noble offspring, he will
be left in such a tight place that the heir to the
dukedom and all its glories will have to be brought
up by hand to save expenses.
The Governor of N. Y. has not signed the
bill substituting electricity for hanging without
knowledge of the method. The condemned
will be taken into a portable hut, like a sentry-
box. Spring locks will close round his neck, waist,
hands, and feet, to keep the body from falling.
This will be the work of a moment. Electric
wires, connecting with the main wires, which
supply light to a city, or from a powerful battery,
will be laid to the place of execution. A metallic
plate is laid on the floor and connected to the'
under wires. A second electrode is introduced
from above, its end descending so near the head of
the condemned that it can be depressed to touch
ei Y a11 isi ready - The feet of the condemned
will be bare, the hair cut short from a small place
°n top of the head-if he be not already bald.
(The poor bald-headed man again. “ If he be not
already bald ” is excellent.—Ed B ) The current
having been tested and ascertained of sufficient
force, as soon as the supreme moment has come,
the sheriff or other officer touches a push button,
closing the circuit and the life of the criminal
before the brain of the executioner can tell what
his fmgers have done. By this process a man
ceases to exist in the five-hundredth part of a
second.
From a pleasure-seeker’s point of view
the N.S.W. Court is now about the most attrac-
tive feature of the Exhibition. .A. generally ad-
mired product of the glorious Freetrade policy is
the waxworks show, which represents Captain
Cook and his officers, in new and georgeous rai-
ment, dedicating Australia to King George the
Third, while a couple of marines are shooting at
some invisible aborigines who, presumably, wish
to continue under the old Republican form of
Government. The stalactite cave is another pleas-
ing exhibit, wherein any young man can hug his
girl unobserved if they wait there long enough,
while the wool and coal trophies form an impos-
ing study in black and white. Sufficient mineral
to make a road is piled about in reckless profusion
and the Carington Pavilion is so truly beautiful
that nobody can get inside without a ticket. But
all these things are as dross compared with the;
series of drawings depicting life on the Noose and
Town and Country Journal, with sketches of
their respective editors—not to mention the com-
mercial manager—thrown in. Nothing more fas-
cinating than the outlines of those human re-
sources of the Parent Colony is to be seen in the
whole show. Modesty forbids any mention of The
Bulletin stand, nor do we care to dwell upon the
delicate subject of preserved meats in tins since
certain officials have brought shame upon N.SlW,
by persistently sneaking that portion of the show.
Pah ! if they had gone for the coal we might
have forgiven them.


PB OSPECTUS
OF THE
Melbourne and Adelaide Heal Estate Company, Limited.
To be Registered under the Victorian Companies’ Statute, 1864.
Capital - £500,000, in Shares of XI each
Present Issue .... 100,000 Shares.
Now offered on the following terms, viz.:—2s. 6d. on application ; 2s. (id. on allotment; and 2s. (id. at intervals of not less than Throe Months. It is not anticipated that more
than 10s. will be called up, as, should the Paid-up Capital require augmentation, a fresh issue of Shares will be made at a premium. Shares will be allotted according to priority
of application. 30,000 Shares are already applied for.
Provisional Directors :
A. BARNETT, Esq., Councillor, South Mel-
bourne, and 21 Queen-street.
G-. S. BEAVER, Esq., (1 Imperial Chambers.
CHARLES BUTLER, Esq., Parkville.
SAUNDERS BENJAMIN, Esq., 82 Swanston-
street.
H. BURROWS, Esq., of Dillon, Burrows and
Warden.
HENRY CHEEL, Esq., High-street, Armadale.
A. F. DEAN, Esq., 76 Collins-street, West.
W. H. DILLON. Esq., of Dillon, Burrows and
Warden, A’Beckebt-street.
WILLIAM HORDERN, Esq , Glenferrie-road.
HENRY HANSEN, Esq., Hansen’s Buildings,
Little Collins-street.
H. B. HIGGINS, Esq., Barrister, Selborne
Chambers.
EDWIN JENKINS, Esq., of Jenkins and Law,
151 Exhibition-street.
E. KELLETT, Esq., Exhibition-street.
J. LANGBEIN, Esq., Daylesford.
N. LEVINSON, Esq., Solicitor, 30 Collins-street
East.
J. W. LINDT. Esq., 7 Collins-street East.
J. H. LONG, Esq , of Long & Co., Elizabeth-
street.
EDWARD LUCAS, Esq., Town Clerk, Brighton.
JOHN M'KELL, E-q., of M'Kell, Speedie
& Co., Melbourne.
HECTOR M‘DONALD, Esq., of Lynch,
M'Donald, Stillman & Co.
C. NEWBOULD. Esq , 76 Collins-street Webt.
HUGH PECK, E-q , 71 Queen-street.
ALFRED PFAFF, Esq., of Fpaee, Pinschof
Co., 13 Flinders-lane West.
C. A. PINSCHOF, Esq., of Pfaff, Pinschof
Co., 13 Flinders-lane West.
W. H. PURVIS, Esq., 236 Elizabeth-street.
E. SYDNEY RAPHAEL, Esq., Solicitor, 40
Elizabeth-street.
W. E. SANDER, Esq., Malvern.
H. B. C. STEELE, Esq., Clarendon street,
South Melbourne.
J. S. SUNDERCOMBE, Esq., Collins-street
East.
S. TARTAKOYER, Esq., 34, Gore-street,
Fitzroy.
CHARLES TROEDEL. Esq , of Troedkl &
Co., 43 Collins-street East.
JOHN TONKIN & SON, Lonsdale-street.
OTTO VOGT, Esq , Melbourne.
J. A. WILMS, Esq , 22 Flinders-lane West.
A. K. WARDEN, Esq., of Dillon, Burrows,
and Warren, A’Beckett-street.
ltankers :
(To be appointed J
Solicitors :
LYNCH, M'DONALD, STILLMAN, & KEEP.
ISrokers:
GREIG & MURRAY, Limited, 10 Queen-
street.
BROOK BROS., 30 Collins street East.
The objects for which this Company is projected
are—
1. The acquisition -of valuable blocks of land
near Adelaide, situate in the favourite suburbs of
Prospect, Malvern, and Hilton as per schedule an-
nexed, comprising in all 280 acres, eminently
suited for subd> visional purposes, and within easy
distances of trams.
2. The purchase, subject to the discretion of the
Directors, of other blocks, both urban and subur-
ban, some of which are now under firm offer, on
very reasonable terms.
The extreme depression which obtained in and
around Adelaide some little time back caused the
value of property to be reduced abnormally, con-
sequently these positions have been secured at
figures which are never likely to rule again, as,
owing to the bountiful harvest, the immensely in-
creasing trade with the silver and copper mines of
the Barrier Ranges, and the pastoral interests of
the north, an era of prosperity has set in which,
for some months past, has caused a great and in-
creasing demand for houses and land, and has also
attracted considerable attention from capitalists
in all the colonies. Transactions of some magni-
tude have already taken place. For residential
purposes Adelaide is unsurpassed. Its hills and
dales, gardens and trees, render it picturesque in
the extreme, whilst the perfection of its drainage
and general sanitary arrangements combine to
make it one of the most healthy of cities. This,
coupled with the fact that houses of a better class
are at present almost unattainable, unite in
making this one of the soundest investments ever
offered to the public.
Applications for shares may be made to the
brokers for the Company, Greig and Murray,
Limited, 10 Queen-street; Brock Bros., 30 Collins-
street, East.
Schedule of Properties.
MALVERN.
Southern portion of Section 243, Hundred of
Adelaide, within two miles of the City of Adelaide,
fronting Unley tram-road, and opposite the
charming Unley Park —23 acres 3 roods 35 perches.
£(>s9l Bs.
Land adjoining this, prior to the erection of the
ornate villas which now adorn the neighbourhood
realised at auction from £4OO to £5OO per acre.
PROSPECT.
Western portion of Section 350, Hundred of
Yatala, about one mile from North Adelaide,
fronting Pulsford and Prospect Roads, tramway
and water main—27 acres 1 rood 13 perches.
£5835 5s - -
There is a good demand for land in this local ity,
which is one of the most fashionable suburbs of
Adelaide. Some few years since £4OO per acre
was offered and refused for this block.
HILTON.
Bismarck Estate, part of Section 99 and 160,
also Section 161, Hundred of Adelaide, close to
North Richmond and Brooklyn Park, within two
miles of the City westward, and near the Henley
Beach Trams —228 acres 3 roods 22 perches.
£24,385 15s.
This is the largest block now available within
the same radius of the Adelaide General Post
Office. £l3O per acre was paid some time ago for
a large portion of this estate, and within the last
three or four months allotments in the adjoining
township of Brooklyn Park have been sold at
close to £2OO per acre.
MOUNTJOYS
Lome Estate Company, Limited.
To be Registered under the “ Companies’ Statute 1864,” whereby the Liability of each Shareholder is limited to the amount Unpaid upon each Share.
Capital: £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
Payable as follows : 2s. 64. on Application ; 2s. 6d. on Allotment; and the Balance (if required) by Calls not exceeding 2s. 64. per Share at intervals of not less than Three
Months. It is confidently anticipated that not more than ss. per Share will be required as proposed above, to cover the cost of the Purchase, and Expenses of Floating the
Company, the Balance of the Purchase Money being made up from time to time by proceeds from Sub-divisional Sales.
Provisional Directors :
The Hon. W. P. SIMPSON, MLC, Sandhurst.
W. H. UREN, Esq.. M.P., Ballarat.
CHARLES ANDREWS, Esq.. M.P. Melbourne.
T. JEFFERSON CONNELLY, Esq., J.P.,
Mayor of Sandhurst.
C. J. RICHARDSON, Esq., Manager, City of
Melbourne Building Society
WILLIAM GARDINER, Esq., Geelong.
DAVID CARSON, E»q., Melbourne.
G. M HITCHCOCK, Esq., (Messrs. Bright
and Hitchcock), Geelong.
DAVID COOKE, Esq., City Councillor, Ballarat.
JAMES MATHEWS, Esq. (Messrs. Mathews
Brothers). Geelong.
ALEXANDER MILLER, Esq. (Messrs. A.
Miller and Co.), Geelong.
WILLI AM SOMMERS, Eq., J.P., “Karonda,”
Hawthorn.
Manager :
W. A. MOUNT JOY.
Bankers :
BANK OF VICTORIA, Geelong.
Solicitors :
Messrs. W. and J. and W. HIGGINS, and T. N.
WHYTE, Geelong.
Auctioneers :
Will be appointed by the Directors in Melbourne,
Ballarat, Sandhurst, and Geelong.
Surveyor :
THOMAS FENDER, Government Authorised
Surveyor, Geelong.
Auditors:
F. W. SMITH and J. A. WHITFIELD, Ac-
countants, Geelong.
Brokers :
GREIG & MURRAY, Limited, Melbourne.
WILLIAM LITTLE, Ballarat.
H. B. CHAPPLE, Sandhurst.
JAMES HENDY, Geelong.
JOHN ELKINGTON, Lome.
Secretary •
H. E. RICHARDSON, Exhibition Exchange,
Geelong.
This Company is being formed for the purpose
of securing the whole of the property known as
“Mountjoy’s,” at Lome, consisting of about 197
acres ef very valuable land. The far-famed
Erskine House, which has accommodation for 140
guests, and the household furniture and effects
contained therein The stabling, nine coaches
and other vehicles, forty-two horses, fifteen head
of dairy cattle, sheep, com, and all the other
sundries in and around the property Large nine-
roomed building, used as a general store and
dwelling. Six roomed building, used by the Go-
vernment as a post and telegraph office. Five-
roomed dwelling, known as “ River View.” And
also about one acre of land adjoining the site of
the proposed railway station at Dean’s Marsh,
which will be utilised for stabling accommoda-
tion, &c.
The Messrs. Mountjoy Brothers, being amongst
the earliest settlers at what is now known as the
“ Queen Watering Place of the Australian Colo-
nies, ” secured the pick of the limited area of lands
in the Township of Lome suitable for building
purposes, and the valuable property comprising
the “ Lome Estate” is beautifully situated, ex-
tending as it does from the table lands overlooking
Loutit Bay, to the magnificent fiats adjoining the
ocean, on a portion of which “ Erskine House ”
(practically a Coffee Palace) is erected.
It is proposed as soon as the Company is formed
to erect several seaside dwellings on the estate,
which will readily let during the season to
families, and return substantial interest, also to
make necessary additions to “ Erskine House ” to
meet the continually increasing demand, besides
laying out tennis grounds, bowling green, and
other improvements, which will not only be the
means of adding to the popularity of Lome as a
watering-place, but will considerably augment the
already very handsome revenue that has been re-
ceived for many years by the Messrs. Mountjoy
Brothers.
The new line of Railway, now in course of con-
struction, to Dean’s Marsh, will shorten the coach
journey by ten miles, leaving a beautiful drive
through the famous Otway Ranges of some thirteen
miles, and the attention of investors must be
specially drawn to the fact that a representative
and powerful Railway League has been formed in
Geelong for the purpose of securing the construc-
tion of a Coast Line of Railway from Geelong to
Lome, with every prospect of success. The con-
struction of either of these Lines of Railway
must considerably enhance the value of property
in the Township of Lome, and cause a much
larger number of tourists to visit the place.
It is proposed to subdivide and sell about 180
acres of the land in Melbourne, Ballarat, Sand-
hurst, Geelong, and during the season, at Lome,
when it is expected the lots will be eagerly sought
after, and highly remunerative returns received.
The price to be paid for the entire Estate, in-
cluding Land, Buildings Horses, Coaches, Cattle,
Fuinituro, &c., as enumerated above, is £40,000.
The Terms have been arranged as follows :
One-fourth cash ; and the balance extending over
three years, bearing only 5 per cent interest, and
it is confidently expected that no more than Five
shillings (55.) per share will be required, the sub-
divisional sales being expected to realise from time
to time sufficient to meet all engagements.
Mr. W. A. Mountj oy has agreed to act as
Manager for a period of three years at a very
moderate salary, and the venders will take up
10,000 shares in the Company, thus showing their
confidence in the undertaking, and will also
guarantee 10 per cent, per annum on the paid-up
capital for three years, and will deposit their
shares with the Directors as security for its pay-
ment.
As has been aptly stated by “ J.H.” of the
Argus, Lome may be looked upon as the future
Sanatorium of Victoria, a pleasant retreat for
those seeking health, a week’s relaxation from
business, and the exercise of their muscles in place
of their brains and nerves. In time it will become
the “Torquay ”of the colon'es, to which its hill
surroundings already share t These hills give it
all the mildness of clima e - i.«t fit it for a winter
resort for invalids, and all the year round for
those seeking a change for a week or so, and, with
the increased facilities of RaiD-av Communica-
tion now in progress, must consi erably increase
in popularity.
Shares will be allotted according to priority of
application.
Application for shares to be made to the
Brokers or S°cetary a f orr>said, where Pros-
pectuses, Plans and other information can be ob-
tained.


Business 4.naounc3tnents.
To Tobacconists, Storekeepers, as
Hairdressers.
Craig & Ait ken,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George-sireet,
Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
Agents for the Celebrated
PLUM RAZORS jii SCISSORS,
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
Army and Navy
TOBACCO
FOR
Smoking
AND
Chewing
Is still the most Popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG & AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s., 145.,
p.p.’s, 7s. ; TWIST.
Cut Tobaccos.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American) finely flavored,
best value in the market, Jib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH-CUT RUBY and LONG
CUT, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
Cigars.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
New South Wales
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P. O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 & 682 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Price List on Application.
A Melbourne Herald man interviewed
the head of Sir Henry Loch’s culinary department
the other day. With so many young artillery-
men knocking about Government House, a poo r
journalist luns little chance of reaching the cold
pie.
A smart youth, who gummed tail feathers
and other good points on to his bird, came near
carrying off the prize at a recent Melbourne
pigeon show. The fraud was discovered at the
last minute, and the judges decided that that
pigeon was a gull.
Agnostic Symes and the Melbourne
Secular Association are now tenants of the local
Young Men’s Christian Association, the latter
sanctified body having bought a large Bourke-
street frontage, part of which is occupied by the
Hall of Science. The long unbeliever will have
to hire another tabernacle presently, as the
Y.M.C.A. intends running up a palatial club-
house on its new site.
From the Argus “On their average
form it can scarcely be claimed that this Eleven
(sixth Australian) is equal to the flower of .Eng-
lish cricket, picked and practised for the purpose
of meeting them.” This is a fib in spirit and
utter twaddle in substance. An. All-England
Eleven, composed of men who are playing for their
respective counties every day of the week, can’t
be, and don’t require to be, practised together,
as the Argus would have it understood. But if
they were not ‘ 1 practised ” —meaning in constant
play—the Australians would make short work of
them, anyhow. Also they couldn’t be the flower.
And if not the flower why the dickens should they
be picked?
The London Times <is a “great journal.”
This is what it printed about the death of Emperor
Frederick:—
“The early summer dawn, began to purple the fleecy
sky. The air was rich with the fragrance of many
blossoms and the promise of a glorious day. Presently
the matin bell of a distiht village spire sent its musical
notes undulating across the meadows, and the pheasants
began to trip out of their, coppices on to the shaven lawns
of the palace, while the lark, nightingale, cuckoo, and
wood-pigeon mingled their rival melodies in the groves
about the death-bed of Kaiser Freder.ck.”
It may be well to mention that neither larks,
cuckoos, or wood-pigeons reside in groves. And
this is the first time we have heard of a cuckoo’s
or wood-pigeon’s “melodies.”
William's Australian Insecticide Is death to all lnseote.
Simple in application—sure in effeot. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing oft a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
aft
g>
%
$
O
O'
<<
4
>
&
4
o
V
s
9
V
V
O
$
o
44
v
C
<y
N
V)
<4
50
4;
o
:
S'
V s
0
%
<< N
V
rC
-
<<^
54
*
o
390/i GEORGE S T
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
Lawyers procreate the smallest proportion
of idiots ; clergymen the greatest.
Perhaps the richest bookmaker in England
k one Pry, the “ King of the Dead Meat Market.”
He kept a little draper’s shop not twenty years
kut has now an annual turn over of half-a
million, and recently has written off a couple of
hundred thousand pounds worth of debts as bad.
It is understood that another great theo-
logical controversy is imminent. The question at
issue is whether, after the Prodigal Son got home
and had his veal, the remains of the fatted calf
were served up cold for him next day, and if so
did he finish it or was there any left and was it
made into hash ?
A Geelong (Vic.) correspondent writes to
state that he lives in a quiet cottage with a
Wesleyan Church in front and an R.C. Church
behind, and yet these sacred influences were not
sufficient to prevent his milk being stolen last
Sunday morning. We are not surprised. We
lived ourselves for some years with a hangman on
one side and a ticket-of-leave man who had
jumped fatally upon his aunt on the other, while
in front of us there was an old clo’ shop and a
pub, and an ash-gentleman kept a depot behind,
and we never lost so much as a flower ; but we
never took the risk of living between two
churches. This cautiousness on our part, com-
bined with an occasional bath and regular
dumb-bell exercise, enables us to preserve our
vigour even in extreme old age, and the shepherd
at the nearest tabernacle has to buy his own milk.
Phil May’s numerous friends will
learn with regret that that popular wielder of the
pencil is temporarily disabled owing to an acci-
dent which befell him in Melbourne. His hand
was slightly crushed, and being unable to draw
with his feet he was compelled to take a rest. The
writer of this paragraph seized upon the occasion
to formulate a metrical curse and pastoral blas-
phemy upon the person (name and address un-
known) who brought about the mishap, but after
expressing his feelings in 176 verses of screeching
fiendishness, he experienced the mortification of
seeing his production consigned to the waste-
paper-basket as too awful to print. Consequently,
he is reduced to making a commonplace statement
in the dull and impotent language of prose that if
he ever encounters the monster in question he will
—[Eleven bloodthirsty threats are here excised by
order of the sub-editor.]
Luxuriant Glossy Hair,.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ KALYDOßremovesfreckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Ronslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872,
CAPITAL, £500,000,
Reserve Liability, £112,322.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors’Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months lg per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
MO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
B &
3“T
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYINO OF TEAS.
10!
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. . ’
isf Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
The Best Ms
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS, *
IS YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lor the above for New South Wales and Queensland,
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Maehinerv
Imported Leathers, &c.: and of the following Special Lines PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POT,mu’
NUBIAN BLACKING i Tanners' Tools and Materials, Indents executed on Favourable Terms
Business Announcements,
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twt
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The aotion of Dandelion, more especially upon
ch© liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov a
mg all impure seoretlons than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 80, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
_ _ . 0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tam worth, August SI, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelyed
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
‘ 1 Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
s , „ “ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney,"
i
JOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Jo3ephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HE ALT H BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words. ■
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen; —
Statutory Declarations.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-streefc,
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me. •
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANH
BITTERS, pmnared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMPANY.


Auctions.
nnnki 2Sni Tip tehber,
ON THE GROUND, At 3 O’Clock.
SOUTH PRESTON.
GOWERVILLE ESTATE.
GOWERVILLE ESTATE.
Choice Business and Residence Sites.
Frontages to Plenty-road,
David, Thompson, and Patterson Streets.
Bell-street Railway Station is close to this Estate.
Land in this Suburb is
DAILY INCREASING in VALUE,
PLENTY ROAD FRONTAGES
Being Easily Sought after by
BUSINESS MEN AND OTHERS.
TERMS :
£5 Per Lot Deposit. £5.
Balance :
3,0, 9, and 12 MONTHS AT SIN
PER CENT.
TITLE, CERTIFICATE.
PLANS IN COURSE OF
PREPARATION.
Full Particulars from the Auctioneers,
G. W. TAYLOR & CO.,
20 COLLINS ST. WEST, MELBOURNE.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success I mv „ rTT I All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. •/ w l are Curable.
Mr, H, E, KDGEUMN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
Oft WILLI 1M STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. lvugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
Uied by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1886.
To H. E. Kugelmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that 1, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when 1 com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chenrsts’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that 1 was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my lied, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
vour advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’ treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. Jam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die. —I remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness —J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
g3T All Consultations Free. 'vßt
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Cure
not being Effected.
The experiment of talking to the severed
head of a victim of the guillotine immediately
after the knife has fallen has been tried over again
at Bone, France. The dcctor seized the head as
it fell from the guillotine, and spoke a few words
to it. He alleges that from the movements of the
man’s eyes and mouth he is certain that the head
understood and tried to reply.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or frond the runners in
the street.
Auctions.
SATURDAY, Bth SEPTEMBER.
On the Ground. At 3 O’Clock.
SURREY HILLS. SURREY HILLS.
WARRINGTON ESTATF.
(CLOSE TO RAILWAY STATION.)
44 Magnificent Allotments. 44
Having frontages to Cotham-road,
Warrington-road, &c.
£lO DEPOSIT. £lO
Balance:
3,6, 9 and 12 MONTHS AT (5 PER CENT.
TITLE, CERTIFICATE.
Solicitor :
T. K. V. COBURN, Esq., 66 QUEEN-STREET’
Plans and .Pull Particulars From the
Auctioneers,
G. W. TAYLOR & CO.,
20 COLLINS ST. WEST, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcements.
K'ng’s Views
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c., &c.,
SIS SHORES ST., between Huter-st. ani G.F.O.
J M PORTANT NEWS.
“ A remarkable find of gold-bearing quartz has
been made at Yilgarn (W.A.) A large area is
covered on the surface with stone containing gold.
Specimens brought into Perth are of a marvel-
lously rich character, one of which, when broken
revealed gold in great quantities.”—S.M. Herald
Juiy 25th, 1888.) “ Arrangements have been
completed for the construction of the West Aus-
tralian Midland Railway.”—(S.M. Herald,
July 17, 1888.)
Telegrams are appearing daily in the Press re-
cording rich gold discoveries in Western Aus-
tralia.
Now is the time to make a profitable purchase
of land in Perth, the capital of Western Aus-
tralia. It is offered for a mere song, but shortly
will nob be obtainable except at much higher
prices, for Western Australia is certainly booked
for a prosperous era, and Perth property will
increase with rapidity even as property has done
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, &c.
EYELEIGH ESTATE, PERTH,
Elevated, good building land ; well-situated, and
-only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting Go-
vernment road. Ten Pounds each lot. Terms—
£l deposit; balance, 10s. monthly. No Interest.
Free deeds absolutely to purchasers of five lots.
Title, Torrens. Pamphlet containing valuable in-
formation and marked plan of the Estate for-
warded to any address on application to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Business Announcements
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON CO.’S
"MARROWBONE LAKE" WHISK?,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
el
O
m & y
il
3-
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3&0 Barm c K Street.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES
WE beg to notify the Pnbllo that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We mb bow offering these exceptionally Oholee
Brands of
CURETTES, alio FINEST BUNDS of Clli&S,
*0
Consumer* Direct at Wholesale Prices l
m Nora this Paioa!
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
" SESOSTRIS " Brand—ln Tin Boxes of 100, at
BIX RHOmrClg EACH t
rn By baying from as yoa will save at least
35 per oent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
II mmi STREET, S7DIST
(opposite Savings Bank).
NOTHING LIKE ITU!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS I
The concealed cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
ds CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, itro
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
Assurance Companies.
THK AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 97 VIo.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital —. 451.000.000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... ... £82,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman,
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years ... 7 per oent. I For 1 year 6 per oent.
For 6 months 1 per oent. 1 For 3 months— 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, Including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwardß.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotion and
Private Contract.
Head Office— lo, &12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. C. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary :
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are —the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
Business Announcements.
JOHN B U C K H A M,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
jomsr BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TATTERSALL’S
XOISm CONSULT4TIOKS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tatter sail's," oare
of George Adams, Tattersall's Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tlokets are requested
to register their letters to ensure Bafe delivery,
also enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GBP. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND SAVOURIES BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
BUU maintain! lti Prestige and standi pre-eminent asson
the hosts o( other brands as
SHI BBSS QUALITY BRIAR PIPR OFFBRBD SO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enters* the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & OO. t
111 OLARBNOE-STREBS.
QBD. GtJBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
FIFES to hand and Regular Shipment* ooming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
BRUITO S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Gan be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Vlotoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 84 Pitt Stems.
BRISBANE Edwabd Btbmt.
MELBOURNE ... ... Sffnctbb Stems.


Hotels.
0-IS .A. ILT t HOTEL,
COBNEE OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSCKOVE
!
s°rTt
ajr%i
T fr. l
»’ lIP 1 w
il|
yfi
mt)
i
& * j
W/-J+
ii
•/i .
Ladies* Drawing-Looms. Leading and
Smoking Looms. Night Porter.
Proprietress.
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel)
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison
Doors open 7 $ Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Ib.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS NELLIE EARREN’S LONDON
GAIETY COMPANY in Monte Cristo, Jun.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's.
KTTFTTCT.D RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink oan be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnios, &c.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
“OOTANY 1 BOTANY 1 BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Saobhd and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
Under the Conductor ship of Mr. Ghas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH ... Director.
QBITI rion theatre.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUOIOAULT.
3rd WEEK 3rd,
and
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
Thelate Sir Charles Young’s World-famous Drama,
JIM THE PENMAN
JIM THE PENMAN
JIM THE PENMAN.
Entirely New Scenery by Mr. W. B. Spong.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington^
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THE JAPS, KOTOMO and MUKEKE,
In an ENTIRELY NEW CHANGE of ACTS.
BONELESS and SINEWLESS.
FIRST APPEAR ANCE
in this Hall of Messrs. Hayes and Holmes,
Song and Dance Artists.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orohestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 8d
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.:—
Bhirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Lavatory and Dressing-Room Provided.
R.NEIL MACK AY, atone time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
oate with this office immediately to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Amusements.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating 1 Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Ib. )
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopfobd, Sub Manager.
B
0N D I
AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
OADEMY OF MUSIC.
Lessee and Proprietor F. E. Hiscocks.
POSITIVELY FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY,
of
HISCOCK’S and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY.
ADMISSION—3s., 25., and Is.,
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening,
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
The Second Geand Juvenile Cabnival
will take place on
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 81.
Nothing will be spared to make this Carnival
eclipse all previous Carnivals. A number of
Novelties, including the Maypole Dance on
Skates, will be introduced.
’Buses will leave Wyny ward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-atoeet, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, la.
G
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
THE MOST FASHIONABLE BINK IN SYDNEY.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladles and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
ADMISSION, Is.
In active preparation,
Grand Fancy Dress and Masquerade Carnival.
Watch further announcementts.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL,
/\ George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
“FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL:'
D BERNARD’S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&c., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
Business Announcements.
THE
‘PLUM"
Razor.
mm
■;.,,,, - ; , .
THE
PLUM"
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; Bet ready for use. Neve*
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
t3T Nine Haircutters always Employed 1
STREET, BRICKFIELD
680 GEORG
HILL, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gaseitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medieval Metal Workers.
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goodß for all purpose*.
Lists and Samples on Application.
NERVOUS DE
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
B I L I T Y.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist In Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cube fob Nbbvoub DlBlkOT AID
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
ll* -11
:; lV i
-•'KV .-Tv
V <■
° . * 1.4 fc * t
' \ v c -V - t -
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory
Specially prepared from Ripe Fbuit, and 1b the best of
all Fbuit Salines.
BSILTB-IITINB, REFRESHING, ttmum
A Preventive of Feveb, Lives Complaints, Headache,
Hbabtbubn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS' GRAPE SALINE.
Get It only at Grocerß, Chemists and Storekeeper).
Proprietor i
WH. PAKBOITB, A.P.S., Greenwich, England*
Aghnts:
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
%
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS St FACTORY,
BILLIARD* CUSHIONS, &0. s MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fltted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CITES, BALLS ia stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & SOWM,
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square 8 LOHDOBr
LEA &PERRINSSAUCE
I
In consequence of Imitations of THU WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUGE tvhich aft calculated to deceit* Jht
have la request thatJPanbaseri t& JM>
heart their SipmSt lhu^
&
wiihmf CthSM & Settle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE it genuine.
Ask /of LEA <*S& Sdutti and j» Name on tVrapfer. Label, SetSk^M
Stopper.\ IVkolesaU and foe Export by the Proprietors, Worcesteri Cromlmm
ttiacbtesll, London, a and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the fyor**, _
ftowlanch’,
MaeaddarOil
irnbnn known for nearly 100 year, ..thebwt wUbhSSM
<Si® -liman hair; It Is warranted free tom any lead or mInMW inensdl . £ Jrerfi and
which rnin the health (rlda Medical papers), w*uewp*™^
ißMtorer. are composed and which rum the health (tM» hair
sweet in the hottest climates and has a ddicate Mid -cS? ord»ndri& and renders the
galling off or turning grey, strengthens.weak haar, OToanux monlt4chel :
Wx sSft, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth ox hMy! j ot
St is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a Deaumrai ow
■tan also he had in a
xi a
which, after great time and trouble, has been especially P r *P*’‘,® 1 * eouri |«?^Sr«maiv
children and fair or grey-haired adult*. Sizes H. «d.; Ts.; family bottles, equal to sour
SOs. 6d.; and double that size, Ms.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR to a hesllng and refreshing tor
the face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, ■™ b ?^ I ‘*nd dlllcsS
of the skin, pimples, cutftn®ous eruptions, etc., ftnd produce* ft beft
■somplexion.
ROWLANDS ODONTO wMtonsthe teeth, presents
the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anyw
S’ articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious Imitations
strengthens
'ROWLANDS'
vimilar nam
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliots Bbos., and E Pbobbbb h 00., Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
the bbiqhton OF 3ST=B-W.
At the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, ® bo -'"®
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most reckercM
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and country |
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that
oomfortable can be found at this really flrst-olass hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Toole
dt Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminst** to make ne*
visitors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
KILMNSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Otfomtb OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.


Hotels.
•jJjfWL HOTEL, HOOUOM.II.W
v vf r '5 It * AJ3 S accommodation for oommsrelal
and others. Private sitting rooms,
Nsroomu JAMBS SIMONS, Proprietor.
JjODNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENSLAND.
distinguished patronage of His Bz-
UlSte lirA Mnsgrave, K.C.M.G. Aooommo-
t|| k.,* br Tltltors. Two-storey buildings. Fjom
Hi li iv?~ 8B * splendid view ean be obtained of
mountain of gold, and within a few
**J Dun °1 the company’s works. Passenger
IjWj , Caches dally from Rockhampton and
Wilt* W. MONCKTON, Pro-
1 M the firm of Monokton and 00.
mount Morgan.
National Natal,
SO BEDROOMS.
®°t®l has been beautifully done up, and
ready for the reoeption of visitors,
ly, Cellar stocked with best brands
Mrs.Hxissss, Proprietress.
FOODS’ HOTEL,
MBIiBOURNF.
■ Railway Tskminus, Spawns nsbbe*.
Patronising the above hotel, which
*ttl ae d had an addition of over 100 rooms,
■tftv ojodem Improvements, suoh as light,
RRI » ftl „jT eU ‘ v entllated bedrooms, large public-
Dsedi u’ room , hob and °° ld Bh ower
•tilt u, f"® bathß passenger elevator, eleotrlo
Jt kt , u ®i )tlolle . and all other hotel requisites, not
Mon ]Jrr asße d In Australia. Visitors can rely
tmur* 1 for early morning trains. Letters
Promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and PiesitiMi
Medical.
P&. SPEER’S
lß» Wee DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STRESS
JW i, 6eor 8® and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. D«.
Onu ,e?ula,f Graduated Physician, eduoated at
j 8ge < U.S. (lor confirmation see New Zealand
Vh,’ 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
ft*, P'U 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
of CHRONIC, NERVOUB, AND
Of thfrT? S - Pour °f these were in the leading
Llfc 6 States, which enables him to treat
r 6ofi . excellent results. All applying to
t ® “is honest opinion of their complaints.
hve ... * n £ >no Mercury used. He 111 guarantee
tj».‘ Sis (p ® ll ? every oase he undert kes, forfeit
**> mS 0 0n doin ? so is this—whe there no
r* Wei thft V\ ICiAOUU YVLLJ AU
Jo it rti„A ro P er remedies, therefore he guarantees
HV|h°rtn ‘'"'hotly understood that he does not claim
*? 8 on]?°f S, ! ll 'ti e s, or to have miraculous power
*fj3[l% i n , *° he a skilled and successful physlolan
blsir l^ d in his speciality—CHßONlC AOT
a tartiT..? Es or MEN and WOMEN. People
. C u M| hy explaining their troubles In
w»vhome. The course of treatment wfll
adviol nt . ertere w >th their business. Examlna-
JWiJ,•i-I),, 40 L. ,ree to all. Charges moderate. H. 3
ID > 3 ar garet Street, between Georae and York
onlv.
b
I 0 H A R D S.
J RaJ***® Botlna BOOK On SELF-CURB
Bfi, , OQa Diseases! price, Including post-
"‘•jC**
Consultation costs nothing,
wI U tell you at onoe whether your
Address—
-1 or not.
STREET, SYDNEY.,
iohards,
Announcement*.
.^EIHAN’S
l *ck o/ls
6 *BROCATION, ~
FOB
„ -i CATTLE & 10SS
i 11811 Grow over Oldest’SoarH.
w i tin Y'W, * M
. IMEDAL,^SYDNEY,|IBBB,
as a Dressing” for FRESH
j sore BACKS, GIRTH
s .^ t °ken KNEES, GREASY
aud QUARTER CRACK,
N to ’ and as an Embrocation
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS
———
■* 3s. OdUgper BOTTLE. |
I 5 ~
ft Agent :
„ MRS -
“STREETj,WEST, I
. 4BEt H3STREBT, redeem?-
I 1
ole Bale Druggists,
Storekeepers.
4a . MlLllilS*
v. ° COMMISSION AGENT,
; NQ KXOHANQB!,
T °WER , QUEENSLAND*.
Business Announcements
m
i
k A3NOA«*
if 30H02J ff»
issvo sivh
f % U inn 17 »<••»>#
4
tw
UMBRIiLLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
STUDY ECOtfOWra
*nd
Ha*« your Umbrella Frame* r<*
corered, and your
ParaaOls re-lined and tnadftaqarf
to If ew, at
J. STJLLIVAU’f
541 George Street,
Brtckfleld Hill, between
li*en'°°l & nd Bathurst Stre-t*
Parasols made to match
ttAnairs neatly ci'
PALAOB FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
STANLEY AND MELBOURNE STREETS.
SOUTH BRISBANE
■lrgt-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID r-YONS Proprietor.
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
T
O RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfem, Sydney.
MANUFACTURING HATTEKS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
’H PORTERS OF Alt THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
FiAnd at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
\>
7 H C ORIGINAL
m "C %
WAUGH'S
%
fIOTJOWtILA.
F|RST ; CLASS AWARD
OR ’ (
HIGHEST'. DECREE OF MERIT
*km Jr*?
ISTHEB ESTINJHEiW.ORLD IS
NONE OTHER BUT I
WAUC H’S
KECE IVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIIEMEOAL
M A NO FA CTUREO r BYjAMES CHAHMOHT
H ARDOUR SV&X.DNR.V
Sold by AH Croc erstfnTCtorekeep erg
Business Announcements.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
€9^
4?
PATENT
PI
LLS
ft?
3
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
■ old Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, Ac. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largctt Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheezing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ‘ime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
rilHB BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
I Sydnev Branchesi
SI PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital 151,000,000 " m
Reserve Fund 600,000 “
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Cnnaaa, odd can offer special faculties for dealing
In BuUlon, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
TraveUers’ Letters of Cred’to.
Drafts issued and Bills oc’lected on most favour-
able terms, at rateß which can be ascertained on
appUoatdon.
N. F. GIBLIh Acting Manager.
e
s*
s
OIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE 1
The Successful Treatment of
N|E|RVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No|Mobb MERCURY ob otheb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M.B.| Ch. M., &o m qmimi* k '
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON ST
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
hfc. established the W~ - ; JJi ■- - J
Victorian Progressive Medical
' ' 58, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE, “
tor the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Afleotions.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
oure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
OONFISsNCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I olaim only to be a skilled and successful Physioian
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
*" M WIM
•"* ■■ Note Address —
nOIUHIVL'IUDICAL INSTITUTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
No connection with any other Medical Institute In
Australia. WT: Box 268. G.P.O.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last Fnine . years. Publisher, Bulletin
t ffiOS. |r\i , . .
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
m.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydnes*
Robert butcher a oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out” Of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
\\f E can recommend the Imperial Haim
W Cutting Saloon as the best In Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen's-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
js
*80X8#**
MA. BRONCHITIS. COUG
J AN0 ALU CHEST AFRECTIONS
ItPAHU) VNW" I _ _
TM'A« A1
aC KH AM P:T<
6. STEPHENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINK CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATI,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREBI,
Between King and Market Streets.
AFTCI HPUI
Moustache and Whiskers.
. Boyd** Beard Elixir did thie, ,
land trill do it on either bald
'head or bare face • Force*
heavy Mouetaehe in from 9 to
4 toeeke and never fail*, 20,000 '
uu« M 0««
Copyrighted. young men already wear full ffgpyrighteA,
beard*, having used Ito 3 pkte. No injury, easily applied, oertedm
in effect. Packets, 1«. 6d. each, 3 for 3a. flit, poet paid, sent undoc
cover, free from observation . Address, Krui SongUu, Sols Agent,
> T3O. Q T. 0.. Sydney, If. B. W
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin,
• 180 PITT STREET.
c
Ibrqae'B-on'Hli*
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tuner. Gold MrnsLS—
PAIIIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION.
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth and
improving the appearance or the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON S FLORIDA V7ATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Ve alert. and of the Manufacturer!—
}. A B. ATKINSON,
24, Old Pond Street, London.
.Trade Mark—“WhiteHose”on“ Golden
bk Lyre.”


ROYALjnOUI|
mr/j
m
POWDER
Absolutely Pum
For Quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of Its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length o;f time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdbb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Walks.
—X 3 . 3PL
unrosns or
mr wziTEa bfibitb, bbibs, &o.„ a*o„ ■»!
Georgs and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
BPMOMALITIESi—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to li yean old)} W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
_(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Maitell’i and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (In wood), imported and bottled by F.R.L.
MT The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. UT All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales' Hotel, 778 & 780 Georgo-streot.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
mr SEND POR A PRICE LIST.
msi-cim tuny imisisiT boom m unini,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Produce Stores ■ gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE— GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS
J
NH3W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREBT, VYH YARD
AND
GO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Molbonraap and London.
ILLUSTRATED GATALOQUM WRH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
ram, not, riWi
musM*
rn Artistic Posing «»d
ftflmMnlng softness an* b *r u ** w
•! t&fSl
6NARLEMONT I "
~4 ROYAL AROAPB^
"^DBTAND
COLE MANE & jff 9
EUCALYPTB vl"
Victory
A Pure Extract from the
Awarded GOLD MEDAL
beating all other
Ist Prize Great Centennial Lxm
Oan be used for SjSft
ohltls, Rheumatism. Neuralgl . oo i,j a 7PP®*"
and Gravel Complaints, i
Gout, etc. Posted to any a hSD ja. pith
“Manufactory:
Md 7 3^U
wBK &Js
registered In Great
late surgeon to H.RA he Freo 0 * 1 « fifK****
Resident Medical Officer totM o{a U» p .
London, specialist for the trear-
and Heart Diseases, fco.
Consultation by letter or -
charge, at Edgar House, “ •
Hunter-street Sydney.
~ BleHlartneyety
HOLLOWAY'S
There Is not a eeuntjy "/KgHttrti.‘ft,
the healing virtues of these g*» * #||t 1» »** j, *S Ijjj H
reoognlaed by thousands of ®”£® fl#l *t *#•* igctf jLf
aliments of humanity their «»upl!Uj!*JSr|B.
cognised. Fullest dfreotlons »«t*** S
every disease IF YOU SUFBW pri l
featured only at 78 , N *!L t ?2? 6 | e * l* l ****
ohasers Bhould look Oo the Label W*"
If the address Is not »*■ Oxtota
spurious.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 34 3
GEORGE
BTR^^'
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIO. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans, Easals, Brackets, Purses, Card Casas and Japanese Cerlos-
BALL PROGRAMMES. _
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE
SEWING MACHINE OEPOTS
IN
VICTOR I A.
MELBOURNE
»»
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
ECHUOA ...
BEEOH W ORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
.... ... Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
Ta«r* 9
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Cocoa
he#^'
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT
Or. PICKLES <Sc SOITS, Caxrieugre -
«T TH MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OP ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA. j|(|*
City Repository:
Metropolitan Manufactory:
5,7, 9, .. LATROBE STREET WEST,
32, 34, 6 BRUNSWICK STREET,
* £t LVo<
Fit 2ll
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY I *//
. —.— •- -- TS®r,
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides far
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or in the Event of Survived, *
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. tsr Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
wa t £>
WIESENER’S WATCHES! WIBSBNBR’S WATCHES! WIESENBR'S
HAVE proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class Watches (in sterling Silver and Gold cases only) are o *'
and the Public can rely upon being served better and cheaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy Shops, where the only aim can be “ to ge®
WALTHAM
W ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATCH COMPANY’S SILVER ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS, from 70s,
Remember the Address-
er
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between Hunter street and Post
Office)'
