

* wonderful remedy :
NERVINE!
Registered Everywhere.
b er > to be a Wonderful Remedy for Nervous and General Debility, Nervous Prostration, Torpidity of
of E Ol1 ’ Pal P itat,on °f the Hearty Nervous Headache, Diabetes, Lassitude, Impaired Nutrition, Neuralgia, Hypo-
%
Energy and Appetite, Female Complaints, Dizziness, Noises in the Head and Ears, Loss of Vital Power, Alcoholic
vNs, Mat? Impoverished Blood, Impaired Sight and Memory, Consumption in.its early stages, Effects of Youthful
6 le Whil f la> anc * diseased conditions of the system proceeding from Deficiency of Nerve Force. A few doses speedily
St a course effects a permanent cure. Innumerable instances emphatically testify to the truth of this statement.
Thousands of testimonials invite the afflicted to test it for themselves.
ac h Drop is Worth a Drop of Gold!
“6 £ u I’etn a
0l? Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for Female Complaints. Every female should have a bottle ready at hand,
s unties, &c., it surpasses all others. As the nervous system is the mainspring of human vigour and healthful regu-
larity, so, where this complicated organism is deranged,
XuiX 1 UJ' y Ovj W XJ.vX C/ UXXXO v vXXXJJXX vuf uv vX vl ujXXXiOXXX XO UlvX Ctli^uLXj
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE!
Pte
?isio
the an< * curative effect like the day spring dispersing the shades of Night. The whole organic system, which
ei ’gy erves for its streams of electric force, is recuperated and renewed with this Great Vitaliser. The muscles rebound
by appetite and healthful condition follow, the skin becomes bright aad clear, and the winter of disease is
e glorious sun of health. Thousands of restored patients everywhere gladly support the forcible truth of these
assertions, and one trial will lender certainty doubly sure.
SbrsDneull’s Tonic TT©r^rlm-e
Is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 3s. 6d. a bottle, and is
Mq
lli sW
Authors of “The Tonic System, and its Value in Treating Disease.”
®eorge-st. ? and 106 Market-st., Sydney,
N■ B. —Beware of Dishonest Imitations.
Opon having the genuine article supplied, and not allow a dangerous substitute to be foisted upon them for the
sake of the vendor’s extra profit.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
/ 6oiPttvsrgvf>
I A*o /
foiAcn ijl
n
*sro
riiWltl
ai'tttr.B.'
®)SHIOSIGIiS^W}2
mmi
Ufa 9 Grnce i factory, mwtqwr V: Branch. £iorce ST. Sydhey
4?irav©rley KCot©l t
OOLLINS-PLAOE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
iamfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No, 513
MBS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
TOBA
*SONS
*
a
so
o
X
o
SIRROCE
50
a
-
I&
DIXSONS
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-steeet,
Sydney,
Hava always in STOCK for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALES
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and -- M,M
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA, ’ ££!“.
AND
BARTHENW A jR 18.
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland whisky,
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYENS
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and BOMS!
Bdinhnrtrh Pale Ala,
MODLTONs
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
not merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures all
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
It is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
"Business Announcements.
The remington type-writer.
'■
B»ve* labour, ifcationery, and time, writing much taster
than expert pen-men, ana condensing matter to less than
one-half the spaoe occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
ooplei may be taken-in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & GO,
410 Kent-street.
It.
M.
E
(late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds oi
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of She world.
Rents and debts collected. Prom R. M. It.’s long experience
In the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to oonduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
gfggrr PRESCRIPTIONS are Hr
be found In the "LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent) Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address—
a WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
u /
QL)
CAN RECOMMEND
8* EUQEIIE’S
(Prom Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address — .
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
A SOVEREIGN BEHEST
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10a.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. I. BOSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 Georsre-street, only..
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., 5 : RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
o
6
IRONMONGERS
<*/
o
&
3
REG
bpkgx a. siiraxaa
Sowing, ML&cMno, koljooloo k\fco \tasfconl
KI_.KCTUO-VUA.TKIJ VvA.UK, CUTI.SRT, TOOXjS,
OAS COOKING STOVES I—UKONIS FLETCHER'S. JEANS 8c WALKER'S
I BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, 8co„ See,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EYEBY HOUSE.
DOGS
FLEAS ruts BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES AMD
AT TnE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESS TO BIKDS
Fo*lS OR OTHER V
ANIMALS
W
W/*' oVV
Ws* e y
y a c > O c o
■’A vQ <>v
r.-. +.' A'
<* .V vaV O
V A >'
o
(V J<V A/
lv'
0\a V
/ > 7*
<3
iV
» tV K 1
0
<?-
o'
,c
» ■ J& ,*5
CH
; ftS X ;s •*
* y \*V ■ *■»<■
4«% - FtLTON-CMMWA
r ** MEtSOMf^
H
o
<(
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE,
the numerous imitations,
and Be^ te
<A
St
Joics«mft on Sctiß
A POSITIVE CORE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FEOM
*JT
m
-
PIMPLES to
gISFIGUBIN-© HUMORS, Humiliating Krup-
tion», Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
ithsome Sore#, and ©very species oil Itching,
fl#aly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
KS4ie Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Bc©»s of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Ootioura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Bat*rnally, and Cuticura and GuWcurA Soap, the
Qff®at Skin Cure# and Beautifler#, externally.
Etching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Sakor#', Barber#', Grocer#’, Washerwoman’# Itch,
Staking Pile#, and Delicate Irritation# peculiar
S® both #exea, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cutioura Soap and a single application of
SSutioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
Sally, with three dose# of Cuticura Resolvent,
Will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
3aalp, when all other mean# absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plate#, ia wrapped about the Re-
OOLvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
oaanly sworn to before the British Consul, which
i?apeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
2®r- years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
(lave been obliged to shun puolic places by reason
9f my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sician# ; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
m relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
Which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
M pure as a child’#. Send for our sixty-four page
M How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases."
Australian Consiunber,
». Towns & Co., New South W»i.»
nUTICUKA RESOLVED
0 fier, Diuretic, andi Apei^^? t}e g
and Perspiration o t al' ImP u^ e
Elements, and thus remove# fl .„d e«
it cure* speedily, permanent•
Cntlctn*, the
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys
heals Ulcers, Sores, -and tlse
store* the Hair, and
Outicura Soap., an
and Toilet Requisite, prep ft 0 p
indispensable in treating
mors, Skin Blemishes,.Fri Wa
burn, and Rough, ftfcdPi
Ontlcnra Remedies aj® fro®
Purifiers aud Bkiu Beautiher* ,VUt«
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any
table poison whatsoever. jgt* 9 / ,|*
pure by the Analytical oh
Massachusetts.
For BW. by all
magnets throughout Austr!'“~’ r 1
CUTICURA,
sl.jy; Outicura Soar, 25 u jja**
IN(i 307 tv 16 cents; Ct?® ic
per bottle.
1
fßjpilSU
I ■ “ .
Pott*** »>rw lltOh»i«* ~)r
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL
T H
E above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and o
First-class Table 0,
LOOSE
Bpare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study.
Hall. P rivate Sitting Rooms without extra charge. -
prom ptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND
other o ','
J. J. FALLON,
pfOf 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 439.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1888.
Price, 6d,
Leaving the Track.
GOODCHAP : “I’M PLOWED IF I’LL PLAY SECOND FIDDLE TO ANY CHAP; AND WHAT’S MORE, I’M NOT GOING TO STOP HERE AND BE RUN OVERI”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO )
Half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly ••• 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
i Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
i
1 The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One,
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every iveek
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is- not delivered by mail, but is, entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
ihsJ£aUetca.
SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1888.
The National Party of Queensland.
The National Party of Queensland, now
organised as a permanent association for the
advancement of Australian independence,
has issued plans and specifications for the
construction of a new nation. Nations, fn
this age of iron and steam and red-hot haste,
are built by contract, and despite the sneers
of old, mess grown, lichen-covered Imperial-
ists—pompous stalactites aggregated together
in the caves of ancient darkness by the slow
accumulation of venerable prejudice and
tradition—this method shows better results
than any which the world has yet seen. Ac-
cording to the teachings of the legendary
fossils who have been handed down from the
rubbish-stores and dust-heaps of the past to
be the hereditary rulers of the earth, a nation
cannot be made —it must grow up slowly and
spontaneously, and in place of seeking its
destiny, its destiny must come to it; but
somehow the world is getting weary of this
system of drifting to meet an unknown fate,
and the old doctrine which bade men and
races to be content in the stations which
Providence had assigned them has been
grievously discounted in recent years. The
earth is full of nations which for a thousand
years and more have put their trust in Fate
and the gods, and in the teachings of priests
and aristocrats and royalties and other clay
images, which posed as the visible deputies
of invisible Providence ; and they have
grown old and decrepid and lop-sided and
barren while waiting through the long
slow-moving centuries for the coming
of the Influence which was to stir
up the sluggish depths of a dead sea of
humanity ; yet their patience was never re-
warded, and the latter days of their old age
find them waiting still. “ Wait and stag-
nate ” is the watchword of the Australian
Imperialist; 44 wait through the glorious
days of youth for the destiny which Provi-
dence and England—which is your Provi-
dence—may have in store for you ; wait,
and hang on to the tottering daddock
of a worn-out Empire; wait, until the
people of the South have so thoroughly
learned the lesson of dependence and sub-
serviency that they are too weak to stand
alone; wait andi stagnate, until stagnation
is your only ideal of peace and happiness ;
wait and grovel, until grovel becomes a vir-
tue, and it is a sin to stand erect; always
and forever, wait!”
Wait as China waited, learning from the
patient, subservient philosophy of Confu-
cius no lesson except that of obedience, until
the. warlike Asiatics of old, whose fierce
bravery in the battle-field should have made
them the freest and greatest of nations, had
sunk into a horde of lying, slavish syco-
phants, whose one manly virtue was that
they knew how to suffer and to die. Wait
as Egypt waited, without a dream of free-
dom except the freedom to obey : without a
dream of greatness, except the greatnes
which consisted in building stupendou
monuments to the ruling Pharoah of th
day, even as the Australian worshipper of
foreign throne raises lying monuments toth
kings and queens of England ; wait as th
Jews waited for the Messiah who wa
to sway the sceptre of the dead Solo
mon— straining their eyes from th
ramparts of Jerusalem until Titus anc
his legions came instead and the sun of. th
Hebrew kingdom set in everlasting ruin
Liberty never comes to the people who hav
learned nothing except how to wait, and th
“ loyalist ” of Australia has no other lesson
to teach. China, galvanised into convulsiv
activity in her old age and striving to acquir
greatness through the numbers of her petri
lied tribes—driving the mjriads of her dum
semi-human bullocks to battle, and feebly
endeavouring to undo the work of thousand
of years of soulless patience by heaping u]
bayonets and cannon—was created on the
policy which makes subservience a virtue anc
builds a religion cut of historical tradition
and as she is so Australia would be if the
worship of crowns and royal lineages coulc
be crystallised as an article of faith anc
maintained until the twilight of the earth
Egypt, great in her arts and sciences and in
the valour of her people, versed in mystic
lore to which even the nineteenth century
is a stranger, learned in every branch o:
knowledge except that of individual liberty
lived as the fossilised politicians c f the pre
sent day would fain have Australia live
for the glory of her kings, instead o:
that of her people ; and when the
Pharaohs fell she went down with them. In
the last days of her glory she spilled the best
blood of her warlike race in the vain effor
to plant the banners'of Arries on the wall,
of Babylon, and the failure of that great expe
dition finished her existence as a nation
When there was no longer a Pharoah to
fight for she laid down her arms, even as
“loyal ’ Australia would lay down hers
when the last of the foreign monarchs whom
she worshipped had vanished from his
throne. A race which has learned nothing
except to rally round a throne' falls when
there is no. throne left to rally round.
+ # *
The world is cumbered with the monu-
ments of nations which have stood still—anc
died, and strewn with the living death oi
nations which have stood still and which are
perishing in their multitudinous corruption,
because they have forgotten how to do any-
thing else but wait for the coming of their
destiny. Yet the dull Conservative of to-
day has no other watch word than to stand
still. Every race and tribe is followed and
shadowed by the fate which will ultimately
blot it out and crumble its power in the dust,
but the doctrines of stagnant Conservatism
bid us wait that destruction may overtake
us, instead of striving by constant motion in
the path of progress to keep ahead of the
destroyer. Let Australia wait upon Eng-
land is their constant maxim, and if England
is already suffering from the creeping
paralysis of old age,- then let Australia
acquire the same paralysis ip her youth that
she may keep step with her ancestor. The
daughter must link herself indissolubly to
the fate of the parent, so that when the one
lies down in the grave worn out with two
thousand years of strife and turmoil the
other may lie down beside her in the fresh-
ness of her youth, and share her tomb.
The Australian National Party has re-,
solved to reject this doctrine, and therefore
it is held accursed by all good “loyalists.”
The motto of the association of which M‘ll-
wraith is the leader and practically the
founder, is “Alliance, not Dependence”;
and one of the leading features of its policy
is the abolition of the right hitherto claimed
by the British Crown to exercise a veto over
Australian laws and thus to compel the
aspirations of the New World to keep time
and tune with those of the Old. In other
words, the association demands that Aus-
tralia should not be compelled to stand still
in her youth at the same point where Eng-
land stands still in her old age, or to' be
hampered by the alliances with which Eng-
land is compelled to shore up the edifice of
her lost greatness and the dry-rot of her
national decay. The complete expulsion of
the Chinese and other servile races from
Australia is merely another feature of the
same principle. The Mongolian curse has
been endured so long mainly because of
British alliances. The crowned heads of the
earth are clinging together for support as
the inevitable fall comes nearer, and in the
desperate efforts of each moth-eaten prop to
find another shaky stump to collapse
against it has come to pass that the emperor
of the petrified tea-chest race is now one of
the secrets of Britain’s greatness, vice the
Bible, which has been ignominiously deposed.
The Australian “loyalist,” too, has given
his hesitating vote for the Mongol on per-
sonal considerations. As the scum of the
stagnant sea of Asiatic man has flowed over
into Australia the fossils of this land have
recognised in the Chinaman a brother who
has grown grey in the pursuit of the great
Tory art of standing still and departing not
from the traditions of his fathers, and con-
sequently v the yellow man has become in
some degree a branch of the great “loyal ”
party in Australia. His departure will be a
serious blow to a tottering cause, and the
blow is only slightly diminished by the fact
that Britain did not interfere on his behalf
lest a worse thing should befall her.
The proposal for the federation of Aus-
trajia in one powerful Dominion, with a
national system of defence apart from that
of England, is, however, the feature in the
National programme which is calculated to
arouse the bitterest hostility. The value of
British defence, it is true, has never been
tested, and at the present moment the
mother-country despairingly acknowledges
that, so far from being prepared to defend
Australia, she is utterly unfit to protect her
own shores from invasion ; but the super-
stitious reverence for the bursting guns and
broken bayonets of the nation of shop-
keepers, which has been carefully in-
culcated in these colonies, has done
as much to maintain the party of
“loyalty” as could have been accom-
plished by the presence of ten army corps.
Like the Carthaginians of old and the de-
generate Italians of the Middle Ages, the
Australians have grown up to put their trust
in the swords of foreign mercenaries, and
their awakening to a knowledge that, for all
practical purposes, they might almost as well
have hired an expensive Papal curse to heave
at any possible invader is a terrible under-
mining of a time-honoured political super-
stition. And along with this comes another
blow, in the shape of a resolve to crush out,
as far as -possible, the imported sectarian
bigotries which have been the standing dis-
grace of colonial politics. The long-estab-
lished union of Church and State in Eng-
land, the blasphemous theory which declares
the sovereign to hold the place of the Deity
as the head and defender of the faith, the
system by which the bishops and priests of
the Anglican communion are paid to grovel
to the throne, and, on the other hand, the
ludicrous claims of the gilded and jewelled
boss of Rome to hold authority, as the
descendant of the shoeless St. Peteii, over
all temporal and spiritual concerns, have all
tended to make the gods of politics agents of
retrogression. The Almighty has been
systematically borrowed to prop up the
cause of monarchy j the penniless Teacher of
Galilee has been hailed as the peculiar pro-
perty of royalty, and the blessing of God has
been solemnly pronounced on everything
which bears the stamp of Toryism and stag-
nation. The destruction of the sectarian
element in politics means that the National
party refuse to recognise the Loup as the
supernatural influence which watches over
everything which is selfish, unjust, grovelling,
and debased, and claim that the Creator was
not himself created to be the organ of the
dirt-eaters of His own little earth.
* •
But the policy of the Queensland National
Party is too vast to be dealt with at once and
in detail. Among its other aims, however,
may be cited the following :
“ The exclusion from the islands and waters of Austra-
lasia and the Western Pacific of all foreign convicts; the
active promotion of all legislative measures calculated to
check wasteful expenditure of public money and prevent
the levying of oppressive taxation, and to' guard against
the abuse of political patronage; to repress injurious
monopolies, and prevent the creation of privileged
classes ; to stimulate settlement on the land, and develope
its mineral and other resources ; to carry on reproductive
public works; to conserve the rainfall ; improve the
natural watercourses, and tap the subterranean waters of
the country; to remedy all abuses in the law, to repeal
all barbarous and obsolete Acts; and to reduce the cost of
law proceedings.”
In issuing this programme of reform the
followers of Sir Thomas MTlwraith have
more than vindicated their claim to rank
as the party.of progress. In every line
and detail of their policy they stand out in
bold opposition to the noisy army of
“loyalists” whose only gospel is that Aus-
tralia should pay due respect to the British
Crown and stand still until Britain moves
with paralytic feet in the path of advance-
ment, and, if not see fit to
advance, that Australia should stagnate along
with her, and petrify like the nations of the
East in stupid, animal contentment, accept-
ing without question the great aristocratic
maxim that whatsoever is is best. The
National party is the organised army of
Young Australia, and compared to it such
purposeless aggregations of imbecility as the
much-vaunted Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion will be eclipsed and ultimately extin-
guished. A society whose solitary qualifica-
tion consists in the fact that its members
were all born on one patch of soil and whose
solitary object is to meet in mutual admira-
tion and drink to the memory of an obsolete
institution is not likely to leave any large-
sized footprint on the sands of Time, and
within a very few years the mighty march of
the National army of progress will have
trodden it and all follies of its kind into the
dust.
The Philanthropist and The Proletariat.
Some philanthropists of the glory-of-God-
and-15-per-cent.-interest-on-capital invested de-
scription yearn to embark in ventures which,
while benefiting “poor, suffering humanity,”
will yield twice the amount to be got
annually by leaving their money at fixed
deposit in the banks. Some of these gentlemen,
assisted by certain well-meaning dolts into whose
ears they have talked confidentially, are at
present agitating for the erection of artisans’
dwellings in the centre of the city of Sydney.
“Why-only artisans’dwellings 1” may be asked.
“Why not also dwellings for solicitors, merchants,
shopkeepers, &c.?” To such a question the phil-
anthropist, smiling at the innocence that prompted
the, speaker, will blandly reply—“ Well, you see,
the people you mention can afford to own or rent
comfortable homes in the suburbs, away from the
heat, dust, and noise of the city.” The retort
quickly comes—“ Then why not build the
artisans’ houses in the suburbs also?” “Well,
you know,” is the reply; “the is
compelled from the nature of his employ-
ment to commence work at a very early
hour, and moreover his earnings will not
permit him to travel long, distances by steamer,
tram, or train.” Still unsatisfied, the inquirer (a
visitor, perhaps, from Utopia) proceeds further—
“ But is not the artisan’s labour as necessary for
the welfare of the community as that of the solicit
tor or the merchant?” “God bless my soul, you
ask peculiar questions, my dear sir ! But, then,
you belong to another world, or you would under-
stand these little matters. The artisan’s labour is
perhaps more essential to the community than
that of any other citizen, excepting the agricul-
turist and stock-breeder.” “Humph! If so,
why is he so poorly paid ; so poorly housed ; why
is his comfort so little consulted that he is com-
pelled to begin labour at unearthly hours, when
others are snug in bed?” “Well, really you
puzzle me. _ It is the custom, caused chiefly by
the competition ' with which the labourer has to
contend ; in fact, it is one of our social problems,
usually acknowledged to be unsolvable. ”
These are questions that would certainly be
asked by a visitor to our planet, and the answers
are those that would of necessity be given by the
honest philanthropist. The more laborious the
task and the more essential its performance to the
well-being of the public, the lower the remunera-
tion paid to the worker. It is not our purpose
here to suggest a remedy, but it may be remarked,
and those who carry pictures of the “lands” of
Glasgow and Edinburgh on the tablets of their
memory will corroborate the statement, that the
“flat” system is in every way unsuited to this
climate.
Imagine in this country of vast, untenanted
areas the erection of huge, skyecaling barracks
where land is scarce and dear. Pack them with
human beings, old and young, drunk and sober,
clean and dirty, moral and immoral; heat them
with innumerable kitchen and laundry fires, and
then conceive, if you can, the dkcomfort, the dis-
turbances. Imagine, if you can, the stenches per-
vading such a building on a hot summer’s day, or
a sweltering night; -the stale flavours from many
pots and pans, the aroma of dirty clothes, com-
bined with that emanating from every yard
and ash-heap. Picture to yourself the
wearisome climbing of stairs by tired, over-
worked feet, and then the midnight noises
that prevent slumber; the ascending wails of
infants, the descending clamour of heavy boots,
the drunken brands of resident ruffians, and then
ask if happiness can be reared in such a den. Then
consider the opportunities for theft in such a place;
the enforced exposures, the compulsory indecencies
of hot weather, when every door and window yawns
for air. The pen of a Zola is required to describe
the discomfort, the filth, the corruption, the im-
morality consequent on such a herding together.
However, “Zolas” are scarce, and philanthropists,
armed with cheque-books, are, comparatively
speaking, plentiful, consequently we may expect
to find ihe “ artisans’dwelling” become erelong
an accepted fact iu Sydney, and a powerful instru-
ment in the hands of the landlord and capitalist
for a still further reduction of the earnings of
labour.
• * *
The workman so far seems quite content to. let
the capitalist and the politician-thief enjoy-for ever
all the beautiful water-frontages which they have
stolen and barred with ghastly bricks and mortar.
Seeing this, the capitalist naturally now proceeds
to give the screw another turn, and knock out of
the workman’s.head all the absurd nonsense about
fresh air, and peace and quiet, and no lodgers in
his home to annoy himself and talk to his wife, and
a half-acme 6f ground, and a garden, and flowers,
and a place for the children to play ir*
As we walked past a certain Blind Asylum the
other day we thought about the hideous appear-
ance and surroundings of English and Australian
charitable institutions in general, hut were a little
comforted by the reflection that after all the poor
blind men had never seen the hard, stern, cheer-
less, prosaic, GoD-forsaken-looking den in which
they make baskets. Perhaps we may lay to our
heart the same consolation in this matter of the
proposed “ Artisans’ Dwellings of Sydney.” The
artisans will possibly be too blind to”see their own
misery. They have been gUen political power.,
and are yet content to live like pigs in any sty
which may be built for them by their master—
they are content to be robbed of the fresh air and
fenced off from the blue water. They deserve to
die the death. Ashes to ashes. “ Flat” to flat!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Reforming" the Lords.
The Marquis of Salisbury proposes to. reform a
long-since discredited relic of a barbarous age, the
British House of Peers, by intensifying its evil.
To those hereditary opponents of the enslaved
and unenlightened voter Salisbury would now
add 5.0 pro. tem. peers, specially selected for their
unswerving devotion to the unpopular cause. The
real object of the “ reformation ” is given away at
the outset by a clause pointing to ex-colonial
Governors as being particularly qualified to re-
strict liberal legislation for the remaining term of
their natural lives. My Loid Courtesan, who
inherits his coronet from a King’s procurer, is to
be politically held together by men of the Loch
and Wobinsox stamp, whose previous aptitude
for irresponsible law-making (or law-obstructing)
has been displayed in unauthorised cable messages
to Her Gracious, expressing the joy, hope, or
grief, of people who care not a tinker’s curse about
the matter cabled of, and didn’t even know a
had been sent until they read Her
Majesty’s gracious reply in a morning journal.
Two minutes’consideration of Lord Salisbury's
specious scheme shows us that the life Peerage is
intended to be a powerful weapon in the hand of
the reigning Sovereign—a weapon made and
weighted to order. The old original worm-eaten
Peerage has become a positive danger, instead of
an aid, to the old lady who dare not flourish it in
the fa ze of her faithful subjects, because her faith-
ful subjects, knowing it to be ridiculously
rotten, would only laugh. But the intro-
duction of 50 “ specially-selected ” men —re-
placed, as they died, by others equally special—
into the House of Peers, would give that blessed
institution a false appearance of moving with the
times, and gain for it a possible amount of respect
from the uneducated. They might fail to see that
the hereditary legislator was not necessarily such
an out-and-out autocrat as his parvenu colleague
the gentleman’s gentleman of the Upper House.
The baronet with a pedigree is disposed to be a
less offensive royalist than the brand-new knight,
and the born peer (who can’t well help being a sin
against Heaven) does occasionally remember that
he “ owes something to his position, haw.” But
the new men, the Brummagen 50, will only
remember -that they owe their position .to some-
thing. While the genuine peer is placidly cracking
nuts and languidly remarking that the Throne is
the great and glorious bulwark of our liberties,
doncherknow, the mock peer will be striving with
fanatic zeal to substantiate that hoary fiction.
Five-sixths of the blue-bloods never speak in the
House of Lords—two-thirds of them seldom set


" ~ ' "
jf alwav'f 6^ 1 ' 3 °bamber. The new bloods
r3, att .® ndance and continually
cAt orm am , C * Flitted to memory when the
n °I were deputy Victoeias
fc e «2 ’be S' 3Aether Lord Salisbury’s
li’ifim, AnH « remains to be seen. We
fi 'u'r? tra^a understood to be
Sfeal ohil i. l - Hempire, perhaps Australia
against an attempt to set
P %So '°^Sse° f Orown as i >art
Another fteucli Scandal.
the Victorian press has
■llA&teted out- , comment upon the eccentric
tw7‘ feßsZ» to u a Young man named
ifc,;' fcte, iEr fl by the South Melbourne
Wk charcrfa lr€d dcck a few
%JgtBe. on ff. ed , w rth being found, sans
SfedJ bo\ A , [, . o humble premises of one
k's>s heautifH < r The case against
'C?Te entered sunple and clear - At
door premises by way
m? 0 the family bedroom
% golden L n - ded ls Presence by pulling
K h >' theh infantMM0 Ping the ckm P led
(#e evlHo lant M Donalds who lay
% !« ult ed iri°\ Went t 0 show
it the ZTa-* woke up at this
ffc * %ir dkf dmgs and called upon
up tn m SS ‘ , Thereupon Michael
Vt VtitfJ&J?**- M \Donald, and pulled
j 5 %i. aroil sed yells of his kin
he S itatirS°? ALl) pcre ' who, withou
N tX of fhe llw ’ h^l ded Michael over to
he jiigu,' That the prisoner “ap
?As£? without A . u nder the influence o::
A that W e will go further
’em W u S tem Porarily a
No n l( s dlc uloiis f when be committed this
However, as there
|^ ati a Buot y to certify that friendlies
Nin ?i ° x tra hai/-ry’ lS^^ e , or actions when
mJ* iBUal mFAf’ tbe Bench passed sen
)> Was know Qer ' After finding that
kSi. the y “let n h- a ° a in s t his previous
|f lybun off with six months
setittip$ e tittip s °her n,!^ Ct A EI ; Hibson is not
onnoi'f tne^^ s ie will now have
to muse u P° n the
du n|eon n n u y ' con ? ected - He can
StNhs J* hfty of and imagine himself
VNle]v etlCe tonefl U !i en:lanly appearance”—
:^4f> d V> a ed l d ? w n into an “ Lnac
v fey, whipp d bis six months changec
l ll|iherß Caa also\m as immediately paid.’
* s cA e Crown r lllllB6 bimself by wonder
» andhSL- W Authorities will re
tW° Ver t 0 a competent
I ne twice-acquitted Mrs
iNtflal A ’"'"mg j ob>
k '
|fc that ’k e New a considerable num
Government
''*• A s yst!! a bf e to rinL It 8 mberent want of
A 1 whi c L ‘ k ° that profit out of the
t\!° fa hn°tL pa,ri y ! and d ti be r , eadil y realised
RHa? th e tram,, therefore it lias re
°tt p? r P°ration e y ii to a “syndicate,’
the coimf 0 bHed what dividends
j>\§, thp S, n an be Pa f$ y< That dividends,
Ast ev hWp ov ernmp 81 f y - rea fi sed is acknow-
INff by ttft itself, and is suffi-
gpofli and 0n A a A n ess with which
oge^ g e^ all over Aus-
Bu, blthere S f ° r tbel t 0 PUt up their bun-
|4>> 0 been « P Ur F ose of taking ovei
Nk n ° aj e entr„ b ? , riJ lPt speculation
as bamed S i ed A itb tke affairs of
f rnS to^ sta f e that they are
V a N t ftw l ' Cla l Prinni^i >d miles of steel rails
t]A e B n a ys were fi P l eSl Ever since rail-
.toi**Wt^tioian< ! St ? ons tructed in New
° a U w that colony have
ffik n? tlw Merely f 6y and the railway-
conlJ 0r the purpose of
C¥ iv 4 ans"t nts and Pr'^id-
iNy ! ken °^' r °Hin» bangers-on, and on
c , os tly „ f . a nd nepotic system
a train . 3 a nd trams
NNw bonpAernmcnf °i ber ex -travagances
t> *4wh"?!»S«ded with
kit 0 L bu , which they have
couti b 2 yond their power
brst reform them-
of ]„ d -tamtly acknowledge
Hh { /mg the foundations
Rf i kc C e me dy ad mimstration, and as
K. kybfrty k tesoG t un their range of
Pltk. s in& a ny t? hand over a huge
f»i t J °t£ tbe r ndir^ P i taliB t who shows
“k °f natural-com-
asT" ° f the ordi nary
A that aT 6 niost reasonable
k'ckech 6 Ported whiF ramway Commis-
wkSBssedbvH Powers similar to
itAe dIL the t° Se special 6 co - ttll . n 8
| miSBlon it would
TCvhH dt o S h on strictly
Bwfekk,^PaA n if a' o, a Political inter-
to secm. a A ry of *3OOO per
i^v !i w’At lt ein e i' fbe l 9 the services of an
K'V b>C a n ank?^ nt would be the
OAv w 1 outlay of over
tAjXk 1 l6d that- aS fi not b een adoptt d
I 7 ikkkntL 0r that 1 fi tbe N se cret powers
\ v ' Pnbli c o f tb ? fgovernment is
NC d be haL the difficulties by
ftSNkk 5* *mt &A )ered - lb ssibly
-tOK w O ,F r eve n £lO,OOO
theiH buy a man
ilkV A.’itjj an ( } j mfluences of Par-
-1 \ iNoAberA safi>iy par tmen tal imbe-
- Jw'yS’&Mll b be Prophesied that
tUen 6 ' 1 it- If ab i Bcfc a fail ure
cannnf d a Government
ift4^nSh SBe Sl^ liBe a reason-
: hafro4l afilc of Sydney,
r» Gat'd New ij bou nds one-third
‘ 1 '\? C H f, t any A°uth Wales, it is
kkN u? 6 (.AV, P cl?? lable dividends
HSN i4N ‘ tb t0 ’ pattered system of
\5 ft ‘£ Ui «traL the solitudes of
f?oS eove r mountain
Mbi .%, fek ln order t'o tap
W tbk ber ?, man himself
051 j y Scotchman
the lines of
K v>t K As f, sacked” before
I b’,V Aik® lacked ere seems no
aNi a bm l Way s ’ bowever, it may
)) !% and T 6 still regarded
I tha t case the
■l% kl bbin t,fJ-j Us t be looked
|i i-ijl 3 Lfl S a m ld the nation of
Ip W tl biler,„„ ' lri 3 to jirovido
KW'llNt Wbi.i Ten v , UV tbe friends
Bk ? ; V f NAanl''Un J° ars bonce the
to coni-
■Hk b„, -i„| - the local poli-
>Hhe C r ; ] hv l \
tion will be found spreading out its tentacles to
grasp them. And unless the .magic influence of
subterranean negotiation has somehow lost its force,
the success of such an attempt will surpass the
wildest dreams of the little knot of capitalists who
are now laying the humble foundations of a gang
which may yet be destined to overshadow New
South Wales from the Queensland border to the
waters of the Murray.
>♦
Sin i Ill's Sympathy.
A Sydney evening paper states :
“ With his usual forethought, Lord ■ Carington, imme-
diately upon hearing of the German Emperor’s death,
telegraphed the sympathy of New South Wales to the
Empress.”
There is a wild joviality about this item which is
utterly beyond the comprehension of the Sydney
evening journalist. Lord Carinuton, it will be
observed, sympathised on the subject of the dead
Emperor, and because he sympathised he straight-
way stealthily arose and telegraphed that all New
South Wales was bathed in woe. New South
Wales, as a whole, didn’t trouble very much about
the matter, and, in reality, nine-tenths of the
people didn’t sympathise worth a cent. Every
day there occur in Australia deaths a hundred
times more pitiable than that of Kaiser Erei ierick,
and until the nation has got through sympathising
with its own brethren in distress it does not care
to spread itself much over foreign soil. The dead
Emperor had lived in honour and luxury for more
than the average term of human life, and, com-
pared to the thousands who die amid sufferings as
great as his without having tasted even a fraction
of the pleasures which made his life endurable, his
fate appears almost enviable. Australia respected
him as being above the average standard of
monarchs in an age when any one could set a
burglar-trap and catch a dozen better men than
the average monarch in a single night, but his lot
was so much happier, even in death, than
that of a large proportion of mankind
that there was not so very much scope
after all for the effusive sympathy which
Carinuton telegraphed -in such ungodly haste.
And in any case Governor Carinuton might have
waited until the country had time to sympathise
before he announced that they were on the job.
At the moment when he, declared the people of
New South Wales to be steeped in grief, at least
half of them were not even aware of what had
happened, and consequently they were not sym-
pathising, whatever the vice regal Baron might
say to the contrary. Next time a deplorable
event takes place in royal circles it would be well
if Lord Carinuton would not be quite so previous.
The fact that the descendant of the Smiths is in a
mournful mood over the decease of a relative of a
patron of his is no proof that the country is in the
same case, and we submit by way of a harmless
illustration, and without the least tendency to
disrespect, thafit. would be quite. as.r,easonable for
Bill Brown to load himself up: \yith:'colonial beer
and then that all N%w fck}»t'h Wales was
drunk as for Governor Ga!un<> - $W' : L> act as he did;
on the occasion under notice. 'of course all New
South Wales migfit but Tt would be as
well to ascertain the’' nH§»in advance.
Parkrs in a Jam Till.
Alter long months of ceaseless worry, Mr. Creed
of the New South Wales Upper House—-who
when he attacks an abuse, always fixes his teetl
in its hind leg and never lets go until the bone
gives way—has succeeded in getting together cer
tain information about the expensive, brass-platec
legions of the colony which he helps to govern
and the knowledge thus acquired is not on the
whole of a cheering description. As far as can be
ascertained from the efforts of various “ Select
Committees” and other -inquiring organisations
the great feature of the JGornstalk forces i-s that
somebody else is responsible, and that somebody
else can never be run to earth. Generally he is
dead or gone away ; sometimes he proves
to be an unofficial person who cannot
be brought to book ; occasionally he has
omitted to leave his name ; but, at all events, he
is never there. According to Major-Genera!
Richardson, the torpedo stores were ordered and
supervised in times past by somebody named
General Scratch! ley, but how General Scratch-
ley came to put his oar in could not be explained;
he was merely engaged to advise on fortifications,
and he seems to have taken the torpedo business
home and looked after it at night. After
Scratch ley vanished from the scene, the ener-
getic Richardson was accustomed to personally
inspect the. torpedo-cables and other properties
once a year, but, with a military candour which is
beyond all praise, he states that his fatherly in-
terest in the stores isn't worth a cent as he doesn’t
know anything about them. Major Penrose,
however, seems to have examined the tor-
pedo-fixings for amusement, and he con-
siders that their value is about the same
as that of General Richardson’s inspection.
The Torpedo Corps, however, moves under great
difficulties, one of the smallest of which appears
to be that it has no place to put itself in, and it
appeals plaintively for the use of the green slopes
of float Island as a stamping-ground for its
murderous designs. Mr., Creed further reckons
that it would take two months or thereabouts to
get affairs in working order in case of an attack,
and consequently, unless the enemy made an ap-
pointment, it is hard to say where New South
Wales wouldgetit. The Naval Brigade, beingunder
a different head from the Torpedo Corps, cannot be
relied upon to help that lame'department over the
stile; and the Naval Artillery Volunteers,
being entirely separate from the other two,
are not bound to support either. The Stores
Department is split up in a similar manner, and
it takes weeks of agony and communication to
wrench twopenn orth of grease from its clutcTOS.
These and a hundred other things, costing alto-
gether about £154,000 per annum, make un the
defence system of Botany Bay, and Mr. <3reed
asks bitterly what the Parkes Government is
going to do about it. And the Parkes Govern-
ment merely regards him with an eye o|lishy
surprise and replies that it doesn’t know. re-
joinder Mr. Creed pertinently remarks "hat
when trouble does come the populace will Have a
short reckoning with Premier Parkes a|Rl Co.,
and when they have dealt with those gentlemen
it will be easy, he confidently predicts, to perform
the obsequies of the whole Ministry in a one-pound
jam-tin.
—♦
Californian Justice.
The March number of the Nineteenth Century
contained an article from the pen of Mrs. Allan d,
entitled “ A Lady’s American Notes,’’; wherein
appeared a passage which gave great offence to
the gentle wielders of the bowie and the Colt who
dwell in the rocky canyons and on the boundless
savannahs of romantic California. The passage
which occasioned all the trouble was as f<|lows _
“ Law in California is not like law anyw.era else It i
chiefly made to be lau. cd at, or at least th
expenditure of a littli .oney in bribery. . jis,HHl i
a very unsettled condition : murders and divorces are
matters of every-day occurrence, and a man who is one
day a popular member of society is the next day thrown
into prison for stealing a few hundred dollars out of a
bank. Religion under any form is at a discount, and
moral restraints can hardly be said to exist at all. But
this is a transition stage, and by degrees, as educated
persons from the Eastern States fill up the West, the
standard of culture and morals will rise.”
Immediately this reached America several Cali-
fornian papers fell foul of it, denouncing it as
“ malicious and false,” “grotesquely absurd,” &c.
That Mrs. Acland’s allegations of lawlessness are
rather under than over stated, the incident of the
acquittal of the assassin of Editor Smith in Red-
wood City, as reported by Californian papers
themselves, amply proves. It was a most
atrocious murder, and the social condition of the
country in which it could pass unpunished must
be simply infernal. The circumstances are, briefly
stated, these : —Editor Smith, actuated solely by
his sympathy for a poor woman, intimated that
the Redwood City (Cal.) Wafer Company had
acted harshly in cutting off the supply to her little
cottage, and charged that a Dr. Powell had been
paid the water-rates along with the rent, and was,
therefore, responsible for the wrong done. “ Such
is the statement,” wrote Smith, “made to us, but
if any injustice is done Dr. Powell, the columns
of this paper are freely open to him for explana-
tion.” The San Erancisco News Letter, com-
menting on the case remarks :
“ It was at most only a very small matter, that could
have rightly provoked no man to imbrue his hands in
human blood, unless he was already possessed of a con-
suming desire to find an excuse for murder. That Raliti
Smith was of so gentle and kindly a disposition as to
intend no harm to any living thing was well known to
Dr. Powell and to all the citizens of the little town of
Redwood in whioh he lived. Yet he was laid in wait for,
followed, insulted, shot in the back, and shot whilst pro-
strate on the ground, and not until four bullets were fired
into the unarmed man was the thirst of the murderer for
his blood slaked. It was a shocking crime. It is even
more shocking to think that seven out cf twelve jurymen
should vote to set the assassin free. We intimated weeks
ago that Redwood City juries had, first and last, rendered
som9 strange verdicts, but this miscarriage of justice
beats the record. It might be well if one of the enter-
prising dailies were to send down the right kind of a
reporter to find out the true inwardness of this bad and,
at present, inexplicable business. Rumours of strange
goings on reached oar ears long before the trial began,
and we so intimated. Tae case cannot be permitted to
rest where it is.”
Heaven knows that Australia has little to be
proud of in regard to her penal code; but it is
questionable if, in all the horrors of her convict
past, any act of similar lawlessness was ever so
callously and inhumanly perpetrated. The ex-
planation of this is difficult to find, as the early
goldfields population was certainly of no better
description than that which opened up Cali-
fornia. There was a strong similarity between
them ;in fact, they were nearly identical. Pos-
sibly the longer period required to settle the vast
territory of America has allowed the goldfields
pioneer population to crystallise into a tynp which
the rapid settlement of Australia did not admit
of. However that may be, and although we do
occasionally lay aside the forms of justice in order
to secure the conviction of uninfluential persons,
we are certainly free from any blots of a character
similar to the acquittal of Editor Smith’s assassins.
It is calculated that at the present rate of increase
in value of the family property the young Viscount
BelgbaVE, grandson of the Duke of Westminster,
will come modest pittance of £7,300,000 a-
year, or £20,000 per day when he attains his
majority ! This, will show you to what wretched
straits th« English aristocracy is being reduced.
Why, just thinfcof this young Belghave —he will
not, if he within his income, be able to
spend more thW what would keep eighty thousand
families in comparative comfort. Eighty thou-
sand clerks in England, by working 10 and 12
hours a day, draw annually, and support families
upon much less than he will then be paid for con-
descend ing to continue living. As for the other
workers—shop-assistants, needlewomen, and com-
mon persons of that description, who are always
tottering on the verge of starvation and generally
go over it in the end, it makes one dizzy to think
how many of them it would maintain in what they
would consider prodigal luxury. “ What has your
lordship done to earn all this?” asks the barber of
himself in Le Mari age dk Figaro, and replies,
“ Youfool, thetroubleof being born!” TheMARiAGE
I)E Figaro was produced in Paris in the year 1784.
In 1781) the Revolution broke out, and in 1793
there wasn’t a lord with a head on him left in
France. We commend these little historical facts
to the careful consideration of his young Lordship,
the grandson of the noble Duke.
In 1863 State aid to religion in N.S.W.
was abolished. Of the large army of clergymen
who were obtaining pecuniary aid under the Act,
and whose salaries were to be continued during
life, 59 now remain in the flesh. These receive an
annual tribute of £10,192 17s. (id. Thirty-two of
these belong to the Church of England, and get
£5590 annually ; 1G profess Roman Catholicism,
and draw £2900 per annum ; five adhere to the
Presbyterian faith, with £702 ; six follow John
Wesley, with £9OO. One of John Wesley’s dis-
ciples, Rev. W. Curnow (now editor of the
S.M. Herald) voluntarily resigned his income
to become a pressman.
“ The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not
want.” At a little English agricultural town
called Petersfield there was a meeting of the
workhouse guardians, and a horny labourer, aged
75, appeared before chat august body to make a
few remarks. He had lived in the parish for half
a century, and had worked hard at planting car-
rots and turnips and carting dirt for GO years, and
he wanted assistance. The chairman, a reverend
vicar who had looked after the local flock for 52
years at a screw of £2200 per annum (or a total of
£114,400), arose to deal with the case. “ What do
you want?” he asked. “Out-door relief, sir, for
myself and my wife.” “ How long have you been
able to work in your lifetime ?” “Sixty years,
sir.” The chairman looked at him critically. He
had himself drawn £550 for a quarter’s salary the
day before, and, as he felt quite fresh and
thoroughly rested himself, he was naturally
dubious about this old man, who said that he felt
tired. “Now, do you mean to tell me that you
have worked for GO years, and yet not saved enough
to keep you comfortably in your old age?” “ Yessir,
I never earned more than Bs. a week, and I had a
familj|to keep out of it.” “Suppose we say 2s. a
week for each of them,” interposed an extrava-
gant member of the Board, but the chairman paid
no attrition to him. “This,” he said sorrow-
fullyyr" is a sad example of the improvidence of
the lower classes. When a man spends his whole
life without making the slightest provision for his
old age he must suffer for his recklessness and
folly. Under protest, and without establishing
any precedent which will bind the Board to grant
any concession in similar cases in future, the ap-
plicant will be allowed Is. a week and a loaf, and a
similar charity will be extended to his wife.” The
Board then made a minute _ of the arrangement,
and the toothless party, having been severely ad-
monished, was allowed to hobble away homewards.
This is the English system but faintly caricatured.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, —I believe you sympathise
with all legitimate unions of working men. By
legitimate I mean of such a nature that the inten-
tion is to render a fair amount of work for a fair
wage without interfering with other guilds. Now
you are aware that in shearing-sheds there are
essentially two classes of labourers: contractors,
i.e., shearers and wool-pressers; and wages men,
\iz., rouseabouts. I have for some years been
employed in various capacities at shearing time,
and at first w'as entirely in favour of the Shearers 5
Union, but the union will not extend its benefits
to rouseabouts, without whom shearers would
have to contract for or perform their own picking-
up, yarding, and branding, therefore I do not be-
long to the Union. Within the last month l(i
union shearers have asked myself or my employers
for tucker and even for a job, knowing that this
is non-union ground. In another month they will
i (somewhere) : “ If ever I meet that
slushy 111 make him rue the day that he ruined
my constitution upon the Castlereagh.” They
will even talk of putting on the cook as a back-
log and slinging him into the oven, unless he is ;
lighting-man, when they’ll peak. I suppose they
are copying the anthropophagists at home, who
dare to insert such advertisements as the follow
mg in some of leading papers
WANTED, a Roast Cook, also Vegetable Maid,
thoroughly experienced, for first-class hotel by
seaside. Reply, stating age, wages required, and
where last employed, to, &o.
Roast cook is good in Otaheite, but I suppose the
vegetable maid is a mixture of maiden hair
maiden’s blush, lady’s fingers, and perhaps pig’
face. Again
WANTED, a Plain Cook, to bake. Two cows kept;
’' no family. Address,
That's what the shearers want —I mean the red
sash mob (cabbage-tree hat, you know). But,
leaving all jokes aside, the rouseabouts have
great pull on the shearers and ought to be at one
with them. Personally I make my livelihood ou ;
of squatters, and find it an easy one and wel
enough paid, if I keep anything near the mark,
perceive a squatter’s letter going the round of th<
papers, which, I suppose, is reckoned a great hi;
as the clerical errors are published literatim. \\
broke in horses for the same squatter and neve
found any trouble in getting my money and new
colts. I got 10s. a head less from a neighbour o’
his ; this other squatter is a Union man.—Yours
Scotty the Wrinkler.
* *
This will show you to what a pitch Protec
tion is coming in Victoria. The Field Natura-
lists Club want to have the platypus protected
N.S. Wales ornithorhyncuses with a desire t<
cross the Murray had, therefore, better start at
once unless they have saved up money enough t<
pay their poll-tax or can get a platypus friend to
smuggle them over on a naturalisation paper.
Ben Hall’s gang of bushrangers once
stuck up a public-house near Eugowra, on the
Forbes-road (N.S.W.). The ruin-seller was re
lieved of some £4O, after which one of the gang
called for drinks all round, and much surprises
his victim by paying cash down for the grog
Every drink was, in like manner, paid for. Tht
party were on for a spree, and by evening hnc
spent with the publican all his own money. The
latter thereupon hoped he would soon be rid of
them without further loss, but this was not
to be, for Mr. Hall, G.M.U , leaned over tin
bar, pointed his pistol at the publican’s head, and
staggered his host by calmly observing : “Now,
old man, you have done a good business to-day
through us, so be good enough to let me be your
banker.” The humorous highwayman got the
money, and cantered away at the head of his gang.
• •
Dear Bulletin,—As the molecule contains
all the constituents of the mountain, so our ele
mentary civilisation in the backblocks is agitated
by passions and motives which move the' courts
and aristocracies of Europe. Let me explain. A
short time ago the daughter of a certain Queens-
land squatter became entangled with a boundary-
rider, and matrimony ensued, The young man
was very swarthy, and nta-in lawand her daughter
alleged that he was the son of a Spanish noble-
man, and that ill-luck alone had reduced him to
station-work. All Spanish noble-men are reduced,
so it is interesting to speculate on what they fall
from. But the “whalers,’ who, of course, know
everything about bush-life, maintained that the
young husband was the son of a deceased horsey-
man and a well-known black-gin. They further
pointed out that the young man’s brother was
a station-manager in the West. The latter ac-
count was generally believed, and at last it came
to pass that people used to invite the squatter and
his wife and his daughter out to tea without’] e«
garding the swarthy Spaniard at all. Of court e
this became unbearable, but ma-in-law was a
woman of tact. The leading squatter in that
neighbourhood was her own brother, and he had a
lovely daughter. Now, ma-in-law resolved that
her beautiful niece should wed the station-manager,
who was brother to her own son-in-law. 1 lad
she succeeded, the swarthy Spaniard would have
to be received in the best squatting circles. But
a relative of the proposed bride Interfered, and,
speaking in uncomplimentary terms of both the
manager and his brother, managed to break off
the match. This is what happens in Queensland,
but exactly the same is taking place on the Con-
tinent of Europe. Princess ’Trixy has contracted
a misalliance, and the smallest German Couit
will not receive her dear hubby except as
lacquey. But having much influence with tl e
new Emperor and Empress, Queen Victoria re-
solved that the German princelings must acknow-
ledge the shady Battenberg, so she picks up the
brother of her son-in law, a “cocky” who has
been ejected from his Bulgarian selection, and
resolves that he shall be united to the highe st
maiden in Germany, Bismarck, however, in-
terferes and spoils the plan which is to make
Beatrice a “ dacint woman” among royalties,
So in this instance crowned heads are the
same as common mortals. — Yours, The Whaler.
*
A certain millionaire N.S.W. squatter,
whose well-known liberality and genial disposition
have made his name quite a household war d among
sundowners and whalers, has been expressing his
opinions rather forcibly—and in an entirety new
style of orthography—about the .utility of the
Shearers’ Union. Someone connected with the
Union sent Croesus a bunds of tracts with a
request that he would distribute them amongst
his men. The great man turned down the corner
of one of the tracts and wrote a fiery epistle
cautioning the Union and all connected with it
against having further correspondence with him
and concluded by lamenting that the Government!
didq’b “bring on the Crimes Act as they did in
Ireland to put down these radians,”


History of Botany Bay.
If these things moved Bourke to vigorous
action, how much more may they not be
supposed to have goaded men like Went-
worth and Warded, and the Patriotic Asso-
ciation they led ? The case of Wentworth
was a singular one. Born at Norfolk Island,
the very hot-bed and centre of all that was
horrible in the convict-system, he went home
at a sufficiently early age to leave his mind
open to other impressions. His character
was formed on something that differed
widely from Botany Bay models, by the
time he returned to Australia in the com-
pany of the man who influenced his future
action so nobly. These men personify for
us the intelligent patriotic sentiment of the
time. They saw with a more sympathetic
eye than Bourke the details of the working
of the convict-system. Occupying no official
position they were in a measure identified
with the colony and its larger interests, as
distinguishable from the \ ested Interests
against which they unrestingly fought. The
terrible social results of the convict rule were
ilways before their eyes, and they saw ship-
load after shipload of rustic transportees
discharged from prison-ships at Circular
Quay, to be dragooned and tortured into
hopeless criminals and duly fitted and trained
for their end—the gallows. Instances might
be multiplied indefinitely to show how surely
and fatally the system worked to transform
the raw import into the finished article. It
will not be necessary to go into detail to
demonstrate this, however, and we will be
content in this case, as in others, to select a
typical case and let it stand as representative
of all.
t * •
Quite a large proportion of those who were
sent out to Australia in prison-ships were
convicted of poaching. From the time of
William the Conqueror, when men’s eyes
were put out for killing a hart, the game-
laws have always been among the most
priceless treasures of British criminal juris-
prudence. The young man who shot a
hare or a partridge was sent to Botany
Bay in the same ship with the murderer
or the habitual criminal. A love for
sport and a borrowed gun have sent more
good colonists to New South Wales than any
other impelling power save the goldfields.
Wo have now before us the police history of
one of those juvenile poachers, drawn up in
the Convict Superintendent’s office for some
purpose of which we have no present indica-
tion, in 1851. The name at the head of
this faded document is “ Hugh Doogan,
and it appears from the record that he
was convicted in Dublin, 1838, of snaring
pheasants, and sentenced to transportation
beyond the seas for a term of seven years.
God knows what history of domestic woe is
summarised in these three or four official
lines, but that there was something of the
kind we may be certain, for the lad was
only eighteen years of age. Like thou-
sands more he was huddled below deck
out of sight, and floated away in due
course into w hat he and the thousands like
him doubtless regarded as the veritable
under-world. He arrived in 1839, took his
place among the working-convicts, and pro-
ceeded to exemplify the working of the
system in his own microscopic way. It may
be here remarked as a singular circumstance
amply borne out by facts and figures that
these young Irish convicts, sent out for petty
offences, formed the class out of which the
convict-system produced its worst and most
characteristic results. It is well-known that
the nationality of these men subjected them
to a great deal of harsh treatment, and their
own impulsive temperament seems to have
added whatever was necessary to make them
promising raw material for the operation of
such a system.
This Hugh Doogan was in the colony just
nine months—about long enough, we may
suppose, to give his fetters time to bite—
when we find him, by this record, sentenced
co 36 lashes for being absent without leave.
After this first step the descent to hell was
easy. Six months later we'find him sen-
tenced to 50 lashes for disorderly conduct,
and 12 months after that to 50 lashes for
neglect of work. Six months later he was
locked up in the cells for 14 days for
drunkenness, and as this treatment does not
appear to have recommended itself to his
capricious approval, we find him absconding
as soon as lie got out of his exquisite little
cell. He was captured and sent to the
treadmill for two months, and six months
after he finished his arduous labours in that
capacity he achieved six months in irons for
drunkenness and assault. Six months after
his release again—the insect we have now
under the leiis seems to have generally kept
within bounds for six months at a time—he
was sent to Cockatoo Island for the remainder
of his sentence. There is no reason given in
the record before us for this step, but per-
haps the authorities thought it a pity to
neglect such a promising instance of the
success of the system by leaving its develop-
ment to.mere cliance. He was quiet again
for just six months, when the record says he
was sentenced to seven days’ cells for dis-
conduct; but this does not seem to
have discouraged him, for we find him nine
days later sentenced to two months at the
treadmill, also for disorderly conduct. Two
ju<jnths after tliat was over he took it into his
head to assault someone —a keeper, perhaps,
for lie was sentenced to nine months in irons
for his little freak. Sent to Blackheath, he
ran away from the stockade there when his
period was over, and there is no sentence re-
corded. It would be useless to speculate
why. But at the end of 1846 we iind him
sentenced to twelve months in irons for re-
peatedly absconding, which was a bad habit.
{Six months after that he again ran rapidly
away, though in what miraculous manner
he did so the dry record before us dis-
dains to tell. At all events, he was
sentenced to twelve months in irons for his
feat a week later, so we may guess that Mr.
Doogan did not succeed in running away
vei’y far.
* * •
Bearing up under his difficulties, he made
another attempt to add to his record three
months later, when he was sentenced to 14
days’ cells for bad and abusive language,
which was wrong and no doubt thoroughly in-
excusable. But two months later we find him
dancing with a light heart on the treadmill
again for two months because he once more
tried to run away. He does not appear to have
taken the same interest in the experiment
of which he was the subject as the reader
does, possibly, but then some allowance
must be made for the personal equation in
these matters. Bad and abusive language,
four months later, sent him for 14 days to
the retirement of his little cell, and in two
months more we find him at the treadmill
again for another eight weeks for abscond-
ing. Then for nine months we hear nothing
further of him. We have now brought this
specimen up to the end of 1847. His
original sentence was for seven years, but
he has already spent nine in penal servitude,
so that we may infer that at about this stage
Hugh Doogan was released. During the
period of his servitude we can count 16
subordinate sentences recorded against this
man, who came to the colony a mere boy
whose crime was the snaring of pheasants.
One hundred and thirty-six lashes are re-
corded here, five weeks in the cell, six
months at the treadmill, and three years and
three months in irons. Add to this the
miseries of the ordinary convict’s lot when
not “ under punishment,” and we get a fair
idea of the educative agencies brought to
bear on this poor wretch, who entailed on
himself a career of life-long misery for
stealing a brace or two of birds.
* * *
Turned adrift at the expiration of his
term, asSve suppose, it is not difficult to
realise his position. This item of humanity
had had no experience whatever of life, out-
side his 18 years of rustic boyhood, and his
nine years under the convict-system. Of
the oitter world he knew nothing. Had
Mr. Doogan been hanged at this point
in his career, and his mental state
diagnosed by an autopsy of the brain
—supposing the operation effectual for
such a purpose —it would doubtless have
been found that the universe for him con-
sisted of a squire and a gamekeeper, a judge
and a court of justice, a prison-ship, and the
chain-gang. This suggests a pfetty meta-
physical study, which we will not pursue.
Only it might be pointed out that, what-
ever the scheme of Creation may be,
a creature in the position of this Hugh
Doogan could have no part or hope in
it. Under the circumstances, what was he
to do, cut adrift, as he was, among people
who had' nothing in common with him ex-
cept in one point ? He solved that question
in the only way open to him, and joined the
only people who had anything in common
with himself. He didn’t take long about it,
either. , For in September, 1848, just seven
months after lie completed his last sentence,
we find him tried at the Maitland Criminal
Court for horse-stealing, and sentenced to
ten years’ hard labour on the roads or other
public works of the colony. This was a sig-
nal triumph for the system as a manufactory
of criminals. It was as certain and as sure
in its operation as the grinding of the mills
of God, and the boy who entered under the
yoke emerged at the end of his sentence a
graduated and hopeless felon, ripe for the
gibbet, and unfit for anything else in the
existing state of the criminal law.
* * *
And just here occurs a singular entry in
the police history before us, which is suscep-
tible of at least one explanation, and we can
think of no other. On the same day that
the last sentence was recorded, Doogan, who
arrived by the convict-ship Waverley, was
charged in the name of Henry Herbert, per
ship Mangles, and sentenced to 12 lunar
months in Sydney gaol for horse-stealing.
Unless Mr. Doogan was imported in sections,
in two different ships, there was clearly
something wrong here. But in the face of
so much that was flagrantly wrong there is
no room left for astonishment at any trifling
detail of this kind. At any rate our speci-
men took his place again among the convicts,
and one month later we find him going to
the cells for 14 days for refusing to work and
threatening the overseer. For 12 months
he is quiet again, when we find him dis-
charged of an imputation that he had been
fighting in the mess-shed. Five months
after that he is sentenced to 14 days’ cells
again for outrageous conduct in the office ;
and so far as this record is concerned br
shows that is his last appearance on tlmt
or any other stage. Whether he dijid
under the system, or was released
and reclaimed—or if this ink-faded And
patched document bearing date Feb-
ruary 11, 1851—was compiled for the infor-
mation of a judge whose duty it may have
been to sentence Hugh Doogan to the last
penalty of the law; there is no evidence
before this writer to show. The rest of this
man’s dismal story is lost among the tens of
thousands of life-stories that lost themselves
blindly among the horrors of the convict-
system, as feeble summer creeks in the Aus-
tralian interior trickle and lose themselves
amongst the desert sands.
* * *
This, then, is the story of a convict in the
forcing-bed of crime which is meant when
wo speak of the convict-system. We have
seen him pass through all the stages, just as
a college-bred youth passes, through all his
academical degrees to become a doctor of
divinity, or a piece of crude ore through its
processes to come out a needle or an anchor.
And just as these mechanical processes could
not produce a fish, for instance, but must
needs result in a needle or an anchor accord-
ing to the design of the artificer, so even
this rustic lad could not emerge from the
system through which he was passed in any
other form than that of a confirmed criminal.
Such a system would have sufficed to barba-
rise a philosopher ; and assuredly this poor
pheasant-filcher was not such. His ultimate
end, therefore, was as fixed as fate and as
unavoidable, and though the record is silent
as to what became of Hugh Doogan, it leaves
very little room for speculation on the sub-
ject. So far as essentials are concerned the
system is the same to-day. The criminal
chooses his career in the first instance, and
so far the responsibility rests with circum-
stances over which he has more or less
control. But once his choice is made
there is no escape from it. Even to this
very day we have every appliance for
punishing and distinguishing those who
break the law, but none for reforming
them. All authorities on prison discipline
admit the fact, and their only reason or
excuse is based on considerations of ex-
pense. By-and-bye someone will discover
that this ground is untenable, and that
law-breaking may be minimised under an
enlightened and philosophic system which
will recognise the fact that crime is a neces-
sary evil, but that its propagation is not a
necessary State function. In that Utopian
clay perhaps the money-vote for the main-
tenance of the Department of Prisons will
be more intelligently employed.
* * *
No doubt such cases as the one we have
individualised came daily and hourly under
the observation of Wentworth and Wardell,
and it is a significant fact that up to the
death of the latter,, these men wpre always
in the front of any movement that tended to
do* away with the first cause of all these
things. As time went oigptnd Dr. Warded
himself fell a victim to the'state of things he
denounced, the action of Wentworth became
less single-minded. He gradually left be-
hind him most of his popular sympathies,
until at last he actually left the colony alto-
gether rather than live under the free insti-
tutions he is credited with having brought
into existence. The stages of this falling-
off will be seen as this account goes on.
Another liberal leader. Dr. Bland, whose
name is one of the best-known of the
popular party, was himself a transportee.
He was a distinguished physician’s son, and
became himself a surgeon in the navy.
He fought a duel with the purser of liis
ship on an East Indian station, and killed his
man at the first shot. Then the lieutenant
was challenged for imputing unfairness. The
men met, but neither was injured. A little
both were arrested, and, on being tried
at Calcutta, were sentenced to seven years’
transportation. ' William Bland was sent to
Botany Bay in 1814, and within a year ob-
tained a free pardon and entered on the
practice of his profession. He was im-
prisoned for twelve months and fined £5O
for libelling Governor Macquarie, and on his
release he showed that his enforced oppor-
tunities for closely observing the working of
the convict-system had not been lost on him.
He at once entered on the career in which
he persevered until his death in 1868, at the
age of seventy-nine years ; and one of the
most striking sights in Sydney for some
years before that event was the spectacle of
this white-haired and benevolent old man,
the greater part of whose long life had been
spent in doing good, and in unswerving de-
votion to the popular cause. Such a life as
his stands out against the'squalid story of
Botany Bay like the shadow of a great rock
in a thirsty land.
* * *
Bland was one of the first members of
the Patriotic Association. He brought
to the popular cause the aid of his voice
and pen, and he also laboured with most
benevolent zeal in his professional capacity
among the poorest and most friendless of the
population. It would be impossible to re-
produce the feelings of the people in his
regard without the use of words that might
lead to a suspicion of exaggeration. The
public charities were his especial care, and
whatever is best in them we owe to the
philanthropy of Dr. William Bland, whose
name! is hone of the worthy few we are so
rapidly Sorgetting. Some day, perhaps,
some papular speaker will make a popular
speech and recall to the minds of those who
can remember him, the venerable figure of
this old-time hero, and all the good work
that he has left after him as a pleasing
memory.
# * *
A series of letters written by Bland to
Charles Buller, M.P., England, on the
rights of colonists in Australia, placed him
in the front rank of the popular advocates..
In his speeches at the meetings held from
time to time to advocate the views of the
Patriotic Association and it. 3 claim for free
institutkA, Bland was always well in accord
with enlightened aspirations of the
i tli a respoi lB '^
class that eventually g ain ? d jj e ffas 3
government that came at , V tereS ts i ll ,
strong opponent of Altered unj
convict-system and all tha un spBiwJ
that unclean thing, and g.^seii
pointed out how those Inter a n<l f"|
to the prospects of the colon)
obstacle in the way of P ro S 0 , ve it on j l ®
his best known speeches h ■ that
rights of the native-born, c ‘. I)o rtant tl lB ,
possession of talent was nioi acres, aII
the possession of ill-acqui 0 { n
stating that for his part Jf tha t of
“stake in the country s< , t j lC seu rrl ',.
and life. For this he earnrf
enmity of the Vested In O time 0
one hand, and was electe i rislat 1 -',' 4 .
of the first members of of *»'
Sydney, when the first > j, j
government was introduce . #
* * mor e
It will be -unnecessary to do regU
give a brief synopsis ° h» v . e 6 jt.
Governor Bourke’s rule- came
what the colony was whei j u ry. 3 J' s o# .
He practically established Jgigntiig
He gave up the privilege Boai' I*' 1 *'
vict servants into the han i aro us P ...
amended the brutal and 0 f »■ 4
discipline, and struck the list' 9
vict-master magistrates ° oUn fcs ' in , e ;
blow. He issued regulai . first .
receipts and expenditure fo^ g MPjfc.
before his coming the Go g< 0 e 0e
thought fit with the re '. ■ 2r atioP' p
lislied a system of free 1 , and j' 1 yjd»
did away with a State Cl lU V o f the .
law which gave it one-seventh
of the colony as its do^ry-, , Victoh
religious equality. He f° ul
acknowledged the liberty a jid c . cC iii
skeleton list is more « lo^B oU rke 3 p L &
than volumes of eulogy t° 9 0 { o
Australian history. dt o J liin 1 p
that the Vested Interests jj*d po \ to tJ> e
the country. The Governor J Jud ge)
Mr. Roger Therry ( after *f
Chairmanship of Q ual ~ v ]Vlr. wWif
candidature was opp ose i aS g a.n.d 'v o s.
one of the Vested Interest h
Treasurer. The latter wa ecU tiv e . * tt>
removed him from th® j n opl ,oS re fe#
for his official irregulari y j|i«
Governor’s will. T lie ” re inst» te
home, and Riddell was rej&rf}
Governor tendered hi to
which Earl Grey begge r ant rg j'»* ) J
He remained firm, fi?* eV g’ h
from the colony wlueh unS c^!sis teP !j
governed—a victim t° has c °
unrelenting opposition
pursued every friend o ■ ■
before and since. * $ "
• * V.nld I
Bourke continued to h fr0 i»
vernor of New South has .
1837. No Imperial ru he. Vi
better of the country to 1 .
stands in the Sydney H 0 f h J/fip
people of the %
and of the condition ° to
survival of which they
endeavours were not ere . jle s () [
had been a miracle if in *
statue in the Sydney G fro' 11 . i th 6 ,
for the people on their
things he found on n , jjis
prospect towards w* l /■, ■
pointed the ivay.
“Let's Be Fools To-ntght:” or, “ The Three
Partners.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
'^Tcon^ etCe>
We, three men of > go)
Striving wealth to
See but little promise
In the coming d»7
Tho’ our hearts are > • *
Hardened near to
We can think a Wj
Of the seasons n° _
Lily days and 0 /
Youthful d»y W >
We were fo° ls &
We, three
Men of
Gave but little pro be
Of what we wou rcb ,ns
When we wandereu
Foes of ] / IW J f r ching s .
Fearing only Jure bo0 l. e
And the village a dgjrf»»
Boyhood nols in *{&»*■
W e were foms
Let’s be f°° os,
We, three men oi
lAen of business^
Gave but little p
Of ability , r iob
When we lived m
Never drew the y(
Hating and
Loving maids a L
. Davs when in® heart® d«
W fr e be?«'»‘° ■
Let s be
We must wear t®'^a*^ (
All our world y got tc '
Calm looks foi o ur C J® jcinfl'
Stern look^^hrin 11 J
Who, from troum yg .
Tasting eartWy^jug
Hate us, Uttje*' yS .
Ever we we
Days when .g bea^tP
When in e £j a a*«> l '
We’ve t°'
Let’s be -
■ T UD 6,l^‘
Mount
HENRY LAWSON


k Jnh»*mnation of the mucous
.. uu 1 the nose and throat,
'o*l ■ ver > faculty and function
'*'■* V) 5 an ™. 411 infallible cure. Sold
°"**niBtB. Full particular*
*'■ NSW
Sundry Shows.
World ” p. 15.
ft 4l Standa^ Wo Orphans” „
The Forger’s Wife . „
4Tif ifiKs Tt Rickards
Wl rth s Circus „
fej (vj^ 4ss Jenyns the Sydney
o, bas been blessed of late with
Sf,? e vii etlt i, lns pirations, but last Saturday
ifwert Intr" struc k them, and they appointed
SS, wfc 010 Play Romeo, rice Mr! W. J.
W ° c casioiT Vaa ~b°o r ed into the background
3 l! t°Ww, Consequently a great many
y understand Juliet’s infatuation
ik"% Vh b er > whereas they used to
J® vI 6 ., lm Pression that 40s. or one
J- meet the case of a pretty sdrl
S 1 of nii n^? 10Us to give herself away to the
cftj 0 | came along. Mr. Holloway’s
"|g™*love a « ■ Lng himself up to look aged
y|P and' tv ca me to a crisis used to turn
yML i nhet ” i n t o a spectacle of May
c ®®aber before last:—
May is gladness,
rosy red,
I, Wibbo S u eet are rigid
ble ln bed.
lit?!? imputations which had
r ablf. v r Romeo’s character, and gave
m . an a chance to die univer-
|V'dentioal , ~?' rr ing his hair, which seemed
J** thatch which Mr. W. J. Hol-
fjs Hi 18 ay i n g the Italian lover, he
V tnflnu^' 0 Perfection—and just here
S ? that most of the leading
jfo hairtyyters at the Criterion have
Jy'ghts or n, ate ’ Possibly because one of
3&t? y Kfe , e concern wears brown hair
« t ov id4^ COrd4ng to the decree of an
k \ yti tin, ‘ e ’ Mr. Inman’s voice is musi-
SAife ]v’v an d his handsome face and
daitiK. t bim look an appropriate
And, above all things,
6 tender without being too
po j S for a ° ne d without looking as if he
vilLyken a Wager, and consequently his
?<W # r 8 a whole, was good. Miss
than to , be more in sympathy with
nL e ',**id .) u ifwe have seen her for along,
MJ rri Pr(iv Pr i s hone with unusual lustre
Wa« 1 Groundings. The garden of
SN A°!} tr if ma° Vored with plush, and there
2i l 0 ly lifft 0 68 m the air, and the humble
Smif.tp with eeitie d to be boiled in tokay
ntir Jtl y s s, v«- a golden fork in a realm of
™ ’ d. Holloway had a good
life' 1 and nur se, and evidently deserved
iikL nbikiiitt * °ther characters presented
CT t! ,** Wefu matures. Wednesday and
be devoted by Mr. Hol-
We for the first time in
wili b9 the deranged foreigner and
a The heavenly Essie
J Mien a ?h Friday in the “ Merchant
kMil yo tpauf ls .l° be hoped that her friends
CS* S be 7 x ? force, and “As You Like
Ban,. r ° . cec l at an afternoon per-
Bof s . her 1 ? 0 , da y. After which Miss
k| U ll>e , 0 hook, and the rolling
hv., and mournful sea will be
1 a ml the much-collared and
A Who bow down at Iter shrine.
& Hick * * * *
fi in 'I 8 ? ten rj? Perishes out of Sydney
last k Uesda y» and meanwhile lie is
vi w ith “ Bric-a-Brac ”-a
S% Jyha coiv,, Us hmds of bosh whiclt is cal-
sense over the head and
“li„ aild the rhinoceros off their
Km h U f°. a ‘® rac ” is built upon no
llXoiL.of tbo • embraces wild jamborees
Vb^ fiSf ‘s anH IC 1 an< l the great, where
y% T«esse 8 mauled marchionesses and
get out of the road of a
it! bon . come in for no particular
? vS l ~il ngmg a song that never ends;
StS j?°P tl,„;' axms i in the course of which
Wk. bp, a , . g m and rush to the door to
a l. find that it is anything
Ksi nPu 1106 to a cow; and
kid*! ifi tk • long-haired beauties sit
K! m i y y ‘ clad Norman towers
aanP r whatever the place may
bal r t v' s > picnics, black flunkeys,
11^8 ’ toff8 > swells, duties,
ft W'Vk Bfi tl' Business is good at
i\Nk. a c’’ ; r these cheering conditions,
«Wr not ev^i 808 to pay to the bitter
b!S ici %u 1 r h tle author—is ever likely
jSfJ I of tk 11 °P era or a fit, but it par-
jhidc 10 nat nre of both- to draw
ttoarL it is more blessed to
tb e y that fills the house to the
L * f l bf> to of a hundred master-
KSn boots.
itXN'r * * *
S ving men of boikd
hojk ant * watch-springs, known as
||j Stop’s should chance to grow
MuN at is lively to enjoy a
'n%k Ve tbo- ydne y Academy; but as
to j. 1 , 1- Part would almost cer-
f kSllo>v we strongly urge
VV tK them and not leave them
fo ,"1 th I hse]i, ailla7 'i n g manner in which
bkf 68 ’ atl< l then sit down amid
tb P ,\ or r t e d ambition, and their
bj I'ft]' Mfiip f / a P es at the back along
KVv'Ws’ are chests are right round
blikd l 'iii• ll mcient in themselves to
iRCi’HS, f *eet it. m.asry. Mr.
Kt’ {Jt H n .tofT^, pane l photographs ” and a
>; l rir &( , rr * e Wilson and Cameron,
Vk t(: oK work. Several features
feV%|il»W?'rtisk j programme, however,
Kft e sri e(l ' Mxss A - R °we is a
SSX L ‘‘Vlw ; l a successful child of song,
k tl>H>ry t^ s Take Mother’s Advice,”
OT J p lng that should be buttered
VVvCs?hnt U !’ <;hermore > “ Rock-a-bye-
v 1,1 sbifU, to much unless it is sung
WWt y On >PPe« to it on Saturday"
, ' yS i^rav.. ae subject of “Women,”
fe * * *
fv&Ses ku tvhose voice is sweeter
and whose figure is a
vi\i& e b hey elegant than a bamboo,
House °- n July J. th
x'Qt K-bsejii ard a new piece. Mu
from the shores of the
' r S and the cornstalk mul-
titude have pined for their old favourite all the
time. Her re-appearance will be like a ray of
heavenly sunshine reflected on the sordid asli-
barrel of daily existence, and flowers are already
being prepared to heave at her on her appearance
behind the footlights.
** * *
A few changes are looming at the Sydney
theatres. “ The Lights of London ” tread on the
heels of the “Two Orphans” at Her Majesty’s,
and Miss Rowland Watts-Phillip and Mr. J. R.
Greville are to shine on the arid waste of Sydney
intelligence. Messrs. Brough and Boucicault
make a triumphal entry at the Criterion next
Saturday, when the glories of “ Turned Up” will
be revealed to the thoughtless sons and daughters
of earth. At the Royal, “The World ”is coming
to an end, and the end of the world will be suc-
ceeded, not —as it ought to be —by the New
Jerusalem, but by “New Babylon.” The
Gaiety, from which the Swiss songsters have fled,
wifi shortly be occupied by the French
Comedy Company, and all the elite who
say “ Avay voo le caneef de mong ongele ”
are taking seats in advance. And there
will be more joy in the treasurer’s office over
one ignorant dude who pays for his seat than
over. ten just men who can speak French without
making a Parisian fancy he is being jawed at by a
Chinese scholar in low circumstances.
## # #
A benefit will shortly be tendered at one
of the leading Sydney theatres to that deservedly
popular actor, Mr. Brian Darley, and as most of
the leading artistes at present playing in the
beautiful but disorganised city will take part in
the performance an excellent result is anticipated.
Mr. Darley has had a long and successful career,
and among the other items in his record
it may be mentioned that he played for
three years with Wilson Barrett, and
supported the famous Modjeska at the
Court Theatre, London, and also during a
MR. ALFRED WYBURD.
THE POPULAR MANAGER.
long tour through the English provinces. In Aus-
tralia he is best known through his great per-
formances as Mereutio in Melbourne and his
personation of the hero in “ Called Back ” at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney). Mr. Darley has now retired
from Rignold and Allison’s company, and is
temporarily disengaged, though it is not likely
that an artiste of his calibre will be long permitted
to remain so.
** # *
“ Hans the Boatman ” has been doing
excellent business at the Adelaide Royal, and Mr.
Charles Arnold’s artistic performance has been
highly appreciated. The support generally has
been good, Miss Pattie Brown especially being a
shining light. Mr. Charles Warner with the full
strength of W. G. and M. s dramatic company
follows. The opening piece, as a matter pf course,
is the same old “ t Drink.”
TV- TV 1 W
“Wanted, unmanageable horses of every
description,” is the plaintive appeal of the manage-
ment of Copgee Aquarium, where “ Broncho
Kenny” and “Texas Charlie”—two wandering
Buffalo Bills —appear again next Saturday on top of
the most frenzied animals that they can borrow to
break their necks upon. The remains of some-
body will probably be on view at the hospital
shortly.
* *C # #
They have boarded up the tank at Mel-
bourne Royal, and its real-water effect has trickled
down a plug hole. Meantime Miss Carrie Swain
is appearing as “ The Miner’s Daughter,” a drama
of strong human interest strewn with autumn
leaves, an alcoholised corpse, and snatches of
tender melody. “Tomboy” was wont to fall
with the proverbial dull thud dir* etly Mias Carr;
paused to catch her breath, but “The Miner
Daughter ” is a well-rounded work of rude art,
revolving on its own axis once every 24 hours, and
only resting on th 6 seventh day. A solid com-
pany - including Messrs. Leopold, John Forde,
D’Orsay Ogden, J. G. Joyce, and G. B. Carey—
supports the central figure. They have all pre-
viously appeared in their respective parts at the
Alexandria, and each of them is happily placed.
If Mr. Henry Hoyte were less lavish with his
emphases he would be well placed likewise. At
present he talks in italics. Diligent search might
reveal flaws in the performance of Carrie Swain,
as Mab, but the average being is too intoxicated
by her talent to hunt for unconsidered trifles.
Only as a vocalist is this unconventional lady to be
judged by the accepted canons of art. And Carrie
can certainly flash a bigger bundle of good notes,
from A to Z inclusive, than some warblers of
larger pretensions. “The Miner’s Daughter”
ought to strike it rich.
## # #
Donizetti’s “Daughter of the Regiment,”
prettily staged, is filling Melb. Opera House bill for
an uncertain period. The music of this work is
attached to a yarn so miserably thin that it won’t
wash Well unless tenderly handled, and Miss Amy
Sherwin’s company require tougher material to
operate upon. The prima donna has enchanted
the morning papers as per usual, but their fulsome
adulations were knocked out of time by a small-
beer chronicle which published a slushy notice of
the first night’s performance several hours before
it came off. It wasn’t the rag’s fault that Miss
Sherwin held back her “full house,” &c., for a
day later than advertised.
** # #
The early worm barely catches a seat at
Melbourne Princess’s, unless the abiding place
has been booked beforehand. There is a conflict
of opinion touching the superlative excellence of
“Monte Christo, Jr.,” and a difference of ideas
about individual members of the company. But
the whole city is agreed upon the subject of the
show simple, taken in its gorgeous bulk. Mr.
Danby is largely mixed up with the principals
throughout, and always gets a score when he’s on
the spot. Miss Marion Hood also participates in
the trouble to the extent of being there when
she’s wanted, but in point of fact, Miss Hood is
wanted oftener than she is there. The public
can’t have too much of anything so altogether
dainty and distangy—a vision of beauty who sings
better than the seraphim. Sundry minor acces-
sories to the plot, of either sex, are not especially
filling at the price, but the two dancing ladies—
Misses Sylvia Gray and Letty Lind—have knocked
’em very, very silly—
There will be bit Ur strife aroused by this poem,
no doubt. High-spirited girls are never satisfied
to divide a luvni’ heart between them—and yet it
must be so. Why are both so d’licious ? Why—
to resume, however. Remaining honours fall to
Mr. Fred. Storey, a remarkable youfig dancer‘of
the Vokes school, but he will not be put into
verse, because he’s not built .that way.
## # *
“ Skipped by the Light qf the Moon ” is
still making the mirthful tear stand gently in our
eye at St. George’s Hall. The Coghill Bros, and
John Gourlay possess special qualifications for
this line of art, and they never lose the thread of
their narrative, though they are often reduced to
holding on by one toe. _ Matters are progressing
favourably at the Victoria, and the French Comedy
Company continuerai sur le job jusqu’au jme,
Juillet, le jour nous Celebrons. Also, the
Juvenile Exhibition announces the approach of its
itter end, a matter for much regret among
ttle innocents. Certain wealthy Samaritans are
continually treating a few thousand children to
this show, light refreshments included ; and what
wish putting through the picnics, arranging com-
petitions, and fetching the full-grown public, the
r .-retary is generally improving the shining
+i? U t> lastly ,_ finally, and in conclusion, “ Jin:
the I enman ” is a standing success at the Bijou,
but must shortly make way for other arrange-
ments.
Arthur Garner, Grattan Riggs, and Charles
Warner went out shooting at Riddell’s Creek,
Victoria, the other day, and Warner shot the
ferret in mistake for a rabbit.
## # #
Fate has arranged that Essie Jenyns shall
not eat her Christmas-pUdding as the guest of
William Creswick, for that sterling actor (says
the cable) died last week. Of all the old school of
tragedians Creswick kept most in touch with the
changing times. His classic “heaviness” was
many pounds lighter than the ponderous dullness
which commonly passed for dramatic genius half
a century ago. Although not a Macready or a
Phelps, Creswick was not so far behind them as
he was in front of men like James Anderson
men whose “legitimate ” art mirrored nature after
the manner of a gravy-spoon held length-
ways. They lived long enough to sicken rising
generations, but Creswick commanded respect
from the grandchildren of his earliest ad
mirers. He had worn a wig for quite
ten years before he came out to Australia
and astonished us by his ability, vigour, and
juvenility of style. The old boy had never, per-
haps, been so liberally appreciated in London.
There _ Shakespeare was rather under a cloud in
Creswick’s best day, at which period he was
managing the unfashionable Surrey Theatre, in
company with “ Dick ” Shepperd, another
vivacious veteran in dyed hair. But that he had
earned a lasting reputation at home was shown at
a big farewell benefit, of which his level-headed
wife asked to see the balance-sheet, by the way.
That same lady, as mentioned elsewhere in The
Bulletin, was the widow of Dr. Bellinfante,
## # #
’Twas at an up-country theatre. Romeo
was just saying, “I would I were a glove upon
that hand,” when one of the audience remarked,
loudly, “Begorra, ye’d want to be a whole bul-
lock’s hide to fit it,” and Juliet looked quite
broken up. That old Australian idol, Miss
Augusta Dargon, is reported to have accepted an
engagement on the New York stage. Dr. Hamil
ton Griffin informs the New York Herald
that Mary Anderson will never marry.
Who the deuce is Hamilton Griffin, by-the-bye,
and how does he know that Mary won’t
marry, and what business is it of his whether
she does or not ? It may not be generally known
that Miss Essie Jenyns was once a pupil of the
lately-deceased Mr. Creswick. The buckjumpingex-
hibitions of the Wild West horsemen at Coogee
Aquarium (Sydney) have not commenced very
brilliantly. On the opening day the horses
mostly refused to buck at all, and pistols had to
be fired close to the ears of one to excite him to
frenzy. And even then the deliberate beast kept
quite cool. “ We’ll rehearse this act again, ladies
and gentlemen,” said a Sydney manager the other
day ; “and, for the sake of Joss, don’t look as if
it were the Judgment Day.”
Sylvia Gray is a lovely fay,
As lightsome as the wind,
And graceful as a fawn at play
(But so is Letty Lind.)
Both sweet are they—’twere hard to say
To which our faith is pinned :
Our fancy may be Sylvia Gray
(Or else ’tis Letty Lind.)
O ! Williamson, Garner and Mus.,
No wonder you make such a fuss
O’er the Gaiety crowd,
For it must be allowed
They have certainly paralysed us.
If a fellow cornea late to the show
I n vain for admission he begs;
Existence were barren
Without Nellie Earren,
And everyone’s talking of legs.
Mr. Allred Wyburd.
Mr. Alfred Wyburd, the champion skater of
Australia, whose portrait appears in this issue, is
a man who has rinked through the greater part < f
his existence, and left his footprints in many
lands. His first public appearance was on the ice
at Montreal, in 1871, and his second was as a
journalist in New Zealand, where he spent several
years in skating for recreation and enlightening
the popular understanding as a matter of business.
He opened the first N.Z rink at Dunedin,
and afterwards travelled through the colony,
giving exhibitions of his slippery art at all
the leading towns. He came to Sydney in
March, 1878, and vvon the championship cup in
the same year; exhibited at the Theatre Royal in
October, and shortly afterwards opened Prank
Smith’s large pavilion at Botany. Next he left
for London, where he appeared at the Crystal
and Alexandra Palaces, and after having toured
through England he proceeded to skate through
Africa, and created general surprise in that sultry
continent. He re-appeared at the Sydney Exhi-
bition, and opened the Protestant Hall'as a rink,
and, in’ company with his brother, performed at
most of the leading theatres throughout this con-
tinent. As a member of Wheeler’s company he tra-
velled through Western Australia and India, where
he opened still more rinks, and then, turning-
theatrical manager, he took Various companies
through Australia, Tasmania, and New Zea-
land. In the latter colony he is now remembered
chiefly as the man who extracted oceans of fun out
of the dismal figure of Medkin in “His Natural Life. ”
A few months ago Mr. Wyburd superintended the
construction and undertook the control of the
beautiful recreation grounds at Ashfield, and he
is now known as the manager of the Crystal
Palace Rink in York-street, Sydney, one of the
finest and most successful establishments of the
kind in Sydney, and, probably, in all Australasia.
Mr. B. It. Wise declines the presidentship of
the N.S’W. Australian Natives’Association, and
in doing So remarks that Australia has to look for
a union with Great Britain which shall be the
union of an equal with an equal, and not that of a
dependency with a superior power. He believes
it is no paradox that a first step towards such a,
union is independence. Mr. Wise has come out
bf his shell and we sincerely hope he’ll stay out,
just to encourage the many native Australians of
ability'and education Who go over to the Imperial
"Federation fad as soon as they get positions in the
world.
Sunday is Peter’s Pence Day, but this
year, we are afraid, his Holiness will fare rather
badly, as the Irish Catholics just now feel like
robbing Peter to pay Paul. Anyhow, the poor
man seems to get very little sympathy from the
clergy, who, when they, according to orders, an-
nounced last Sunday that a collection would be
taken up a week thence for the old man at Rome,
seemed to be very sulky and to wear one and all
a diluted “ To-hell-with-the-Pope ” air about
them. We hear that) the antagonism shown by
the Australian Irish R.C.s to the Pope in the
matter of his Home Rule pronouncement has
vastly disappointed the Orange lodges, who had
thought to make much capital out of Paddy’s
dog-like obedience.


O ON E N E E J) S u F F E R.
The Premature Decay of Beauty in many of our
Women, and the rapid advance of Age, argue an
unhealthy condition of the System, or a palpable
neglect of their sanatory status. What is .com-
monly known among the sex as “Ennui” is no-
thing more or less than lassitude, resulting from
some defective organism or special affection. It
matters not how delicate the frame, how sensitive
the system, how exquisitely strung the nerves,
moderate doses of WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS will
eradicate the causes and produce the mo*st bene-
ficial results.
N.B. —When purchasing Schnapps, specifiy
WOLFE’S, as it is the ONLY GENUINE
SCHNAPPS.
Next to Victoria there is no' by sl li<i
lasian group which is characte y j>e { | )9 t
aheadness ”as Queensland. -V t j,e Vf
this is in a large measure due w
e» c °V
natural resources are great; t
and there is consequently every
speculation. That is, of cours > r( , 3 c,„.
be remembered that the vas 'i,
northern colony would not h eH ter LfO
developed had it not. been for
colonists. Wise legislation h jp P y, P‘ j S j J
to do with the progress of op tila tJ< ?? e d, J
in its early days, when hsPT, ]it» J
and its revenue corresponding,. bfa^J
and its revenue correspond ~ f O ,- »>MKjf
legislation involves the nece? ■> 1 „ y
legislators—men possessed , w J
capacity, a for
patriotism, and a knowledge tho0 t s $
i ■. 4-V.y-. rmA TlPSlj.
ii the newest and the best
colony would make progress- fold 1
n
,fh )u > ! t *
colonies there are such men -- - a
their number is not large, -p 0l v ?r t !2 t !
George Thorn, M.L.A., «*&£.<s. «
regarding whom it is the °P^ lar
say a few words more P artl I(inV ,
liis connection with that co ygntu B,l o o r o i P l .
born in Sydney in 1838, and ev ■
at the Sydney University, * •
He subsequently proceede po J „
settled in Ipswich, of which j er . I
place, his father was i
was returned to the -L e & W^ lC
(Queensland for West More ’ e dinfU p pebJifj,
represented in the two
In 1874, then beingamenah . nh
he accepted the position ffi C e
He signalised his termjrfl'.A
JnLe signal isea ins ««■*** pos u j. /a /i, , a g ’ iij'
number of reforms in th goC i;W ~
which his name will ever be** J
his instrumentality many „ic» l d i',
opened, and telegraphic c oU giy 7gliUd jy
tant parts of the colony y o oB l»° I tow bn
capacity for administration 0J (
notice, and it is no matter ydMr,
in 1876 filling the P°® p wh )C v
Minister of Public _Work*
was, as a man possessing’
could not fail to be, imbued J hl sjf jA
which, if carried out
would tend to its advancem » be^ f
he re-entered Parliament vvb „s c 'i f*/
.lative Assembly for Passim
he continues to represent w
of a^ al «rO' J l l i c , 0
Thorn is a man
excellent constitution;
the strongest are '' Oh'j
was his experience, but a p re ctiHe rtgw. f Uj|i*
Sr
found a remedy for ms *2^Ljcb>
Cure. He writes from 'P C()l rii>P ‘
1887, thus “I ha *' e J, who ,ia
Sake Cure to many peP|’. every
various complaints, ar« j*h» v y i) i>l ll „ >> >
V® n ;i , a fx
C^ e j t J „
been effected. ,
cine and derived th y^ n( ,b a 1
Testimony, commg j^gh
# 'ifj
Ihorn cannot oe 4 01l
remedy to which, ic rete
value,
The Brickbat.
Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington.]
The guile of the Australian coloured
brother is deeper than the Yarra and wider than
Pitt-street, Sydney, and longer and darker than
the thoroughfares of .iamberoo or Doughboy
Hollow, but his talents have not been improved
by culture, and when he comes in contact with
the wily white invader he is generally a bowled-
out son of the soil. Not long since a Queensland
contractor undertook the erection of a lighthouse
on one of the uttermost parts of the earth, and in
default of better assistance he hired 30 big natives
to pull and haul in the service of their beloved
country. But one nigger is so little different
from another, and a big nigger is so like a small
one that at the end of the first week he had to
pay the whole tribe : he couldn’t distinguish the
men who had worked for him from those who
hadn’t, and they all hollered in an uncouth foreign
tongue And collected the money with a club. But
When next day the crowd rolled up to start work,
the contractor uncovered a deep-laid scheme by
which the remnant of a dying race was floored in
the hour of its decay, and the nation which had
shone through the ages of the past had its light
seriously obscured. He painted his gang yellow
and blue, and when next pay-day arrived no un-
painted nigger received a cent. And the worst of
the circumstance is that the colouring-matter is
indelible,' and the foundation has been laid of a
new blue and yellow nation which may one day de-
generate into orange and drab and pale green until
the banana regions are overrun with elephant’s-
breath tribes and red-legged races with purple feet
and ears of old-gold tints, and the affrighted North
js staggered by visions of chrome-coloured warriors
walloping gins whose hues defy the resources of
•spectrum analysis. And, to add to the horrors of
the scene, there will be feuds between the painted
and the unpainted tribes, and the tastefully-
blended nigger who has been reared by means of a
judicious assortment of parents will look down
with contempt on the garish aboriginal who arose
from a crude alliance between two persons of out-
rageous and glaring tints; and elopements and
clandestine marriages will take place through the
unbjidled desire of young and thoughtless
heathens to be joined together when their older
and more experienced parents recognise that
their hues can never maJch each other to
the extent which is essential to domestic
happiness ; and the sweet blossoms of youthful
affection will be blighted by the interference of
badly-coloured or smudged relatives who look with
disfavour on the entrance into the family of a
young and nicely-upholstered bride. The green
father will rise in anger against the blue son and
shed his blood on the hearth of his decorated
ancestors ; the striped brother and the black-and-
tan sister will be at variance, and the tears of the
crushed-strawberry mother will fall over the graves
of her children and she will go out on dark nights
to mourn over their lonely resting-place when
their brutal father, whose incompatibility of
tint weighs heavily on her burdened heart,
is carousing on baked ’possum and dog in
company with his loud and incongruously-hued
companions. And even should the race ultimately
scale the heights of the white man’s civilisation,
and learn to enter into the harmony of chiarooscuro,
the curse of their progenitors will still cling to them
as they revolve through the land of their fathers.
The salmon-coloured gentleman reclining luxuri-
ously in his blue drawing-room will unconsciously
give away his heart to a gamboge-skinned maiden
of a,ncient pedigree, wliojse blush is a living out-
rage on his furniture; and when the days of
their first love are over the impossibility
of finding a background which will be
equally suitable to both their hides will prove
a lasting barrier to that union in which two
souls have but a single thought and two hearts
beat as one. The future looms big with disaster
for a nation which has been varnished in haste
and without due regard to the artistic sensibi-
lities which should be possessed by every man who
goes out to grain and distemper a foreign race,
gnd the end of these troubles cannot yet be fore-
seen. History is too recent and too unreliable to
enable us to form any distinct idea of the results
which are likely to arise through the unauthorised
painting of a hostile branch of the human family,
but the inspiration is of so hazardous a character
that it should be suppressed by every means
known to the law. Fortunately, the present ex-
periment has been tried only on a feeble and com-
paratively insignificant tribe, but some day a law-
less Government may proceed to oil-paint a war-
like empire, and then armed hordes, whose unna-
tural colour refuses to be washed or boiled off, will
be let loose with fire and sword, and the vengeance
of the bloodthirsty legions, whose ferocity has
been roused to fever-heat by the indignities of
their green and blue condition, will be wreaked in
conquest and slaughter.
* * *
The silent little town of Maryborough (Q.)
was basking as usual in the rays of a semi-tropical
sun one day last week, and the policeman who lay
against the Courthouse looked forth occasionally
upon the face of Nature, and reported inwardly
that all was calm. A cloud of dust drove along
the lonely streets, and an occasional goat might be
seen running before the blast and dexterously
steering himself by means of his tail; here and
there, too, a haunted ash-cart was anchored to
something or other ; but on the whole the outlook
was characterised by rural solemnity rather than
by the rush of the madding crowd. The police-
man grew weary of it at last, and-when a strange
animal hove in sight down the long vastness of the
deserted street he slowly dragged himself int > a
vertical situation and murmured, “Thank ’Eaven,
’ere’s a dorg to look at!” This new entertainment
lasted half-an-hour, but at the end of that time
the dog was exhausted and the excitement died
away again. Then the door of an adjacent public-
house opened and a man came out with a scream
and a shriek and fled across the road. He con-
cussed violently against the officer and swept him
before him into the courthouse, and when he got
inside he galloped all over the place and wild cries
of frenzy were emitted from his head. The
officer besought him to calm himself, but lie
only galloped worse than ever and implored
him to telegraph to the Government and the
Federal Council for assistance, and to ring the
fire-bell and rouse the Salvation Army and the
Anti-Chinese League, and to place himself in
communication by cable with the Imperial
authorities, and to urge all friendly foreign powers
to place their armies on a war-footing. When he
had cooled down a little he explained that a man
over in the public-house was in a state of active
insurrection and anarchy, and was looking for a
blank cheque which he wanted him to sign, and
he inquired what would happen if another man
wanted to slaughter him with a fork and he killed
the other man ; and then he screamed for assist-
ance and sprang several feet in the air. and asked
the constable to throw up fortifications round
him and read the Riot Act and the Declara-
THEY DIG SHAFTS, THEY DIG GRAVES. THEY DIG NOT SEWERS.
“ Typhoid is raging fiercely at the silver city of Broken Hill. Several of the best
citizens of the Barrier have died and graves are always kept ready.”— Telegram.
tion of Independence and the Westminster Con-
fession and the Deceased Wife's Sister Bill.
At this point the officer pulled himself
together, and rose to the occasion. Just three
minutes before he had thanked Providence for
sending him a dog to look at amid the prevailing
monotony, and now he was surrounded by a whirl-
wind of accumulated horror and desperation, but
still he kept calm and retained the command of
his mighty intellect unimpaired. Fixing his
visitor sternly with his eye, he locked him in and
ran for two doctors, and when they arrived and
examined the patient and pronounced him to be
tolerably sane, though somewhat excited in his
manner, he made the sufferer pay the cost of the
inspection, and fired him into the street.
He never came back. In the public-house
opposite a little man sat up late that
night with a blank cheque before him, and
waited for tke excited citizen to come
along and fill it up for £lOO as compensation for
having winked at his wife, and he held a rusty
fork in his hand' with which to perpetrate a deed
of blood if the defendant winked again; but the
hours dragged slowly along and he fell asleep at
last, and woke to find the blank cheque and the
fork spread on the floor, and .the grey light of
dawn stealing into the apartment, and himself
rooted in a hard chair, bnt ne’er a cent, did he
gather in.
♦ #
In the little New Zealand town of Simp-
son’s Ruins, which slumbers alongside the rushing
waters of Pelican Bend, close to where Thomp-
son’s bones were found in ’<>2—which same bones
were certified by the coroner’s jury to be the re-
mains of a pre-historic animal dating from the
period when the megatherium and other old furni-
ture roamed the surface of the earth—there
sojourned for many years a simple weatherboard
artist, whose hand-painted barns were regarded
as masterpieces of local art. In course of time
the exercise of his profession brought him in a
small pile, and then, being tempted of the devil or
otherwise led astray, he embarked his capital in a
pie-emporium and ham caravanserai, and invited
the inhabitants of Simpson’s Ruins to come, in
and be refreshed. A varnished hardwood fowl
and a sheet-iron steak suspended in the window
lent an air of superficial probability to the pro-
ceedings, and for a few months the business
dragged painfully along, and then it flickered and
went out. At first a stray customer would loaf
aimlessly in at long intervals, and engage in a
conflict with the loose-jointed waiter, who always
slopped the gravy on the floor, and whose abject
servility led the residents to allude to him figura-
tively as “The Animal;” but Simpson's Ruins
had long been accustomed to dine upon potatoes,
which ic picked up with its hands off a bare table,
and joints which were divided among the diners
by the simple process of each man grasping a
protruding bone, and then all hauling in dif-
ferent directions until the provision came apart,
and it looked down with disgust on the
effeminate luxury of two-pronged iron forks and
mustard that hadn't any flies in it. Ever since
Simpson’s Ruins had existed—and the Ruins were
old even in the remote days when Thompson’s
bones were found—-the residents had abstained
from Imperial riot and had mostly taken their
victuals standing, and they speedily fell away
from an establishment where the simple customs
of the place were set at naught. Consequently
trade languished, until at last a Chinaman and a
dog were the only customers, and as they were
both on the free-list the proprietor grew dis-
heartened. He discharged the loose jointed young
man, and threw the hard-wood fowl and the iron
steak into the next man’s yard; he sacked the
Chinaman, and he ate the dog; and then he
camped in lonely splendour in his abandoned
“cafe ’’—the local Goths were accustomed to de-
scribe it as a “ calf,” and they cursed a lot at the
upstart ways of the man who wanted “to pass off
his shanty for a dashed heifer ”■—and waited for
something to turn up. And just at this juncture
Providence sent him the only real customer whom
he had seen for weeks. He was out buried in
thought on an ash-heap one afternoon, when an
old woman, who had lain drunk for several weeks
around Simpson's Ruins, recovering at intervals to
fight, and fall out of windows, and get drunk
sopae more, crawled in at his hospitable
door and smashed everything to dust and
atoms. She collected the provisions and
danced on them; she assailed the furniture with
an axe and crowded the chairs through the win-
dows, and then crowded them back again; she
found a can of green paint and threw it over the
proprietor’s clothes she hit the plaster image of
. Captain Cook on the nose with the fire-irons, and
rushed the stove in among the crockery, and put
her boots in the kettle; she also heaved coals
through the chromo of a large red Abraham offer-
ing up a very small pea-green Isaac, and the last-
recorded words which she uttered were “Dash.
Isaac !” Then she lay down and died among the
wreck and carnage, and when the stricken owner
of the “calf” came home he found his premises
filled with rocks and flinders, and the mortal re-
mains of “Blackguard Sal,” as she was termed by
her friends, deposited among the debris. He took
her away in an express, and reported to the police
that a large, tight, stray female had shuffled off
from earth on his premises, and an inquest ensued
in due course. The jury viewed the body, and
went through the remains of the premises, and
then tke coroner summed up the evidence, and re-
marked on the brutal inhumanity of refreshment-
house-keepers in allowing poor women to'die on
their premises without medical assistance or the
careful nursing which their condition required.
With tender, motherly care and nourishing diet,
such as grapes and chicken-broth, he considered
that Blackguard Sally might have been preserved
for many years, and the circumstances which sur-
rounded the extinction of -her existence, in hiss
opinion, stamped the principal witness in the cas<f
as a monster in human shape, and a living did
grace to Simpson’s Ruins. The jury -tjhgn found
a verdict to the effect that Sally had died of causes
unknown, and expressed their conviction that the
testimony branded the ex-cafe mai as a being who
should be expelled from decent society and driven
away for ever from the bright shores of Pelican
Bend. The} also made him pay f° , 1 pra ntedW
and the tombstone, and when he ,
remonstrate he was told that unless
the police would receive orders to t,l-
- the man of sorrow and »®l ‘ ce 0 f tb p ,
grease rose and went down to tn ff iiick
local paper and inserted a farewell
ran thus : ]ivin g and
“Bill Tunstall, being- tired of feeding-. bis c®'*;
burying the dead for nothing, hereby a lol®
tion that the inhabitants of Simpsons 1_ onl ed t°?,
hogs. When J came here they were aocmw oilj] g
with their feet in the plate, and I leave |, e eauseI U *T
it. They had a down on me from the P
a fork. There is only one man in the j jy n 't l
himself, and he sat on me yesterday beta. no« ! .
a doctor for a drunken old hag °. eny or I#S
pieces when I war. out, and then died o „
ments. Tliere isn’t any brains in this ■
And with this valedictory notice the u p o n tl' e
evidence of civilisation turned its i e ft for
township of Simpson’s Ruins, an
unknown.
A neat story is told °f a
down South whose sermons are l^ u u nd»F
tical kind. ()n entering the pulp« W
took with him a walnut to illustra tflr,.
of the various Christian churche .. Mjjmi
people the shell was tasteless and nS (i.
was the Wesleyan Church, T-U e W ft
ous, : disagreeable, and worthless j,e wo
Presbyterian Church. He
show them the Holy Roman Apo “ eD ; «
He cracked the nut and found , pfoB |!llD
his reverence coughed violently . ,
the benediction. o>
“Lat the Church throw off roß g i>»j
mincing compromise and denou nun der diA
shapes and in all quarters as its -
men will believe in it as of old.
distinction between the sinner 1 the 1 j|j^
sinner in rags, save to compassi tenl pt»>«
because of the greater severity r
and the indictment nailed upon'
scribed upon its holy of holies j 3 o®s j ( '
needed. So long as its mor<»W. r veS t#j f
morality of the mart dressed ® fJf
will never touch either the sy , fj ff ],ited
affections of those who know wha
chre mercantile morality is. _ (M
A N.Q. reporter lately, a tfi*
addressed an aggressive policema got
and a blanky scoundrel. Whe te d ® J
ears of the editor he was much .
raged. “ A young man,” he s ftl x bey oß<
blockhead when he is unable to g the ,| f .
and d’s in swearing after, listen e r eH>f
blasphemy for which this ome 0 , r iogf
Declining to improve in his L ’ ursl “be i 3 ” $
young man had to leave, and no 1 " re p o rtf r '
the Salvation Army as ‘ the sa i beis
may have been a poor curser, o - a
119 r ■ f
The British Historical
mission have discovered a very i Jf
by John Wesley, dated June > plo m
Dartmouth. It is an energet g . -
the American War, and in it *\: ca n?, AM
prejudices are against the A® ■a\jn Cb>'
High Churchman, the son of a jjigb e3t
bred up from my childhood in s } g taß c !j' c jiiib
of passive obedience and “°“A u di ceS ’
yet. in spite of all my rooted p oP)' #
avoid thinking, if I think at al , in . M
people asked for nothing mor nf i eS t acd afl W o "',
rights, and that in the most in ttpVy
sive manner which the nature ',„+ioD"'
allow.” It ends with the exbogg 1 .
ber Rehoboam, remember x «
Charles I.!”


“I have found Mr. W. F. Gaunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Tours, Nelli* Palmer.” Prepared
only hy W. F. GAUNT, The Pharmacy, Campprdown,
Obtainable from all Chemists'. Take no substitute.*
Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, b3st Snow-whits
Patbnt Rollbb Floor. Ifc'ie the greatest success of the
age.
When next you bake try Pemeli’a Snow-whim Patbni
Rooiißß Fooua, and your bread wll be as white as snow.
PRICE OE
WARMER’S SAFE CURE SEDUCES,
A reduction of Sixpence per Bottle on all of
Warner’s Safe Remedies takes place after this date.
Consumers Should remember this when pur-
chasing the Medicines
Personal Items.
Peter Lalor is again very ill—of diabetes.
The late Professor Hearn, Q.C., of Mel-
bourne, has left £10,380 behind him.
Pritchard Morgan is forming a £200,00Q
company to work his Welsh gold-mine.
The “Crown” valuator thinks that Mr.
Henry Miller left more than £1,300,000 worth of
property in Victoria.
It is said that Archbishop Redwood, of
N.Z., will probably be created a Cardinal during
his present virit to Rome.
Naturalisation papers were taken out last
week by Mr. F. .ludas, of Rockhampton (Q.)
Rockhampton is a hot place.
Oliver Wendell Holmes’s “ Autocrat of the
Breakfast Table ” is classified as a cooking book in
a Melbourne suburban public library.
Jawbone Neild has been elected Mayor of
Woollahra. Luckily the winter nights are long,
and he has a fair chance to talk himself out.
There are 03 persons by the name of
Smith in the N. S. W. Civil Service (the Covernor
not counted), and 1,0 are known to fame as Smythe.
From all we can hear, the great bulk of
the members of the Australian medical profession
utterly scout the idea that cancer caused the Em-
peror Frederick’s death.
A Melbourne paper describes the only
M‘Elhone as a gentlemen with a back a yard
wide; a pipe'with an awfully shorb stem, and the
kick of a horse concealed in his legs.
Notwithstanding the exertions of the
jaynil Dan O’Connor, twelve inches of freestone
still marks the resting-place of Daniel Henry
Deniehy in the old goat-haunted cemetery at
Bathurst.
The latest news of Rusk in is that he is
about to publish a volume of his early poems.
The information to hand before this was that he
was mad. We did not believe the statement
then. We do now.
Dr. Hutchinson, the new Bishop of Cook-
town, came over in the Liguria with Nelly Farren
and company and the Marquis of Queensberry.
The burlesque syren christened their reverend
travelling companion “The Bishop of Rum-ti-
foo.”
We read in an English paper that Lord
Granville Gordon the other day shot a pigeon-
match against another man for £5OO. In another
Eoglish paper we read l hat Lord G.G. has no
money to speak of, and that Lady Granville-
Gordon keeps a milliner’s shop.
The Prince of Wales has given it as his
opinion that the statue of Venus recently un-
earthed at the Indian village of Subiaeo is “ the
perfection of feminine contour and physical
symmetry.” That settles it. It is generally be-
lieved that Albert Edward knows what he’s talk-
ing about.
Froude says that if you ask an Australian
who is the man of greatest mark in the colonies,
Sir Alfred Stephen would, be named. This is
quite true —as regards the ius-tralians with whom
Mr. Fro vide mixed. If you asked a lot of the
people with whom Mr. Froude didn’t mix, they
would say William Beach.
Mr. Goodchap, the present N.S.W. Com-
missioner of Railways, who has decided to retire
rather than acc pt a position subordinate to that
of the new Chief Commissioner, _ entered the
N.S.W. Civil Service in 1854, and is, we believe,
entitled to a retiring alio war ce of £OOO a year.
His present salary is £1250.
Paris Figaro says that when the King of
Sweden recently visited the Pope, instead of.
taking his Holiness’ hand and kissing it, he kis-ed
him on both cheeks. The last absolutely paralysing
infraction of Papal etiquette occurred when General
Grant went to see Pius IX., and shook hands with
him, saying, “Very glad to see yon, Sir.”
Heir Zang, the Vienna journalist who died
recently, leaving a fortune of £1,000,000, is said to
have had a theory that every line in a newspaper
ought to be paid for. He predicted that Queen
Victoria would eventually have to pay for the
publication of her speeches to Parliament. Xang
must have learnt his business on a certain Sydney
daily.
On the Saturday before he died, 'Mr.
Arnold could not resist the temptation to essay
his old prowess, and leap over a low railing, albeit
warned by his physician, on account of heart-
disease, against any kind of violent exercise.
Some 24 hours later, while strolling about after
phurch with his wife, he fell down dead without
any warning. He was only 60.
Editor Stead, of the Pall Mall Gazette,
who fancies he has a Divine mission, doesn’t get
along very well with “his proprietor” now. A
friend of the inspired editor, meeting him in the
street, asked him how things were going. “ Well,”
said the editor, “I am all right with God, but I
don’t know how I stand with Tate Brady. ” He
didn’t say Tate Brady, but that will do.
William Ores wick, the actor, recently
deceased, married when in Sydney the widow of
I)r. Belinfante, barrister, who wa3 drowned while
crossing the Cudgegong River near Mudgee,
N.S. Wales—the future Mrs. Creswick, who was
with him, having a very narrow escape from
sharing the same fate. The Government soon
afterwards erected a fine bridge over the river at
this spot and named it after the drowned doctor.
The magnificence and wealth of the Duke
of Sutherland so impressed the Shah of Persia
during that potentate’s visit to his Grace’s castle
of Trentham, that he privately advised the Prince
of Wales in all good faith that the first thing he
had better do when he ascended the throne would
be to take off his Grace of Sutherland's head, for
such a powerful nobleman must in the long run be
dangerous to the throne. The Shah was, of
course, merely advising a policy which he would
not have hesitated for a moment to put into exe-
cution against any nobleman of his own country
who happened to excite his jealousy, but the Heir
Apparent enjoyed the joke immensely and told it
to the Duke, who was equally amused.
A letter written by George the Third,
when he was still A young man, has been un-
earthed. It is a pious criticism upon somebody’s
religious views, and the good King says : “ I
could have wished that the author had put before
his young friend the only true insentative (!) to a
rectitude of conduct, I mean the belief in a
Supreme Being, and that we are to be rewarded
or punished agreeably to the lives we lead.”
Beckford (the author of “ Vathek”) relates that
he was present when the same monarch received
an officer who had been teaching rectitude of con-
duct to the Lord George Gordon rioters. His
Majesty rushed up to the officer with “ I hope
you peppered ’em well—peppered ’em well—pep-
pered ’em well.”
Mr. Alfred Wyatt, police magistrate of
Seymour (Vic.), was many years ago chairmamof
the Benalla Bench. While presiding there he
was frequently annoyed by an attorney who found
it difficult to be punctual. One day the P.M.
lectured the lawyer very severely for having kept
the Bench waiting an hour. An hum Me apology
was extracted and the ma f trr forgot.en. a few
weeks later the lawyer wa» engaged to appear at
Bookie Police Court and was punctual to the
minute. The P.M. was, however, not there and
did not attend till half-an-hour after the appointed
time. The advocate saw his opportunity and
immediately drew the magistrate’s attention to
the clock. “You are perfectly right, sir !■ I
thank you for reminding me of it, and’’—(turning
to the Clerk of the Court)—“ Alfred Wyatt is
fined 10s. Clerk, please make a note of that.”
The “ Official History of N. S. Wales,”
now being written by Mr. G. B. Barton under
Government authority, will probably be the most
interesting historical work yet issued in Australia.
Than Mr Barton there is no one in this country
more competent for such a task, either as regards
industry, analytic faculty, literary style, or ac-
quaintance with Australian men and events, and
as the historian has had the good fortune to have
at his disposal hundreds of public and other docu-
ments of absolutely fascinating interest which, so
far, have never fully seen the light, there can be
little doubt that the publication will be a literary
success. Nor can there be any doubt whatever
about the pecuniary success of Mr. Barton’s work
(which will be is-ued from the Government press),
provided that a reasonable amount of trouble be
taken by the authorities to place it among the
PARKES IS COMING.
[From, Haines’ Weekly, July 10, 1886.]
publishers. The book will be issued in parts—
each dealing with one Governor’s term of office.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, whose appoint-
ment as an acting Supreme Court Judge in
Victoria has created such a stir, has a little more
experience of the judicial bench than is probably
knovn. He was educated at Trinity College,
Dublin, the Alma Mater of Chief .1 ustice Higin-
botham, and in 1870. w:s appointed a deputy
District Court -fudge for Maryleb me,' Brompton
and Brentford (London). In 1877 he was ap-
pointed a puisne Judge in the Mauritius, and
while in that colony he received the thanks of the
unofficial members of the Legislative Council for
his public services in connection with the intro-
duction of the labour law, and the reform of the
judicial administration of the colony. Since then
he- has occupied various judicial positions in
Australia, Tasmania and Fiji. Sir Henry was
acting-Governor of Western Australia for five
months in 1883.
The Bishops of England, at one of their
periodical corroborees, have bestowed a genteel
and honeyed curse on “Sunday Amusements of
the Rich. ” It came to their episcopal ears that
noble lords and ladies go in for private theatricals,
ratting, comic songs and other sins of the flesh
when they ought to be bowing their heads in
prayer, "Bo the bishops passed a resolution to the
effect that it was really quite shocking and dread-
ful. After these clerical bigwigs had done their,
duty they all waddled off to sassiety gatherings,
where the dukes and marquises dug them in the
ribs, and said, “You make a fellar feel quite
ashamed of himself, doncherknow. ” > And —as
showing -how the bishops’ reproof has fallen on
good ground—all Sunday entertainments are now
concluding with the Doxology, at the express
desire of “Wales.”
POLITICAL POINTS
The Italian Premier is trying to make the
Pope leave Rome.
Cocky Burns, the N.S.W. Treasurer,
doats on one play : “A loan in London.”
The average expenditure in drink in N.S.
A Vales is £-114s. (id. per head of the population.
An English station-owner, a few miles
from Blackheatl), N.S.W., has a squad of China-
men on his place.
Emperors are expensive luxuries, even
when they are dead. Berlin Municipal Council
spent £55,000 on the funeral of Kaiser Wilhelm.
The (Ecumenical Council of Sydney have
restricted Pope Leo’s infallibility to matters spiri-
tual. Leo, perhaps, will.restrict their decision to
Sydni y.
The Pope has denounced the Plan of Cam-
paign, and the Vatican has boycotted the boy-
cotters. What’s sauce for the goose is sauce for
the Propaganda.
‘ 1 One of the members of the Parkes
Ministry is disposed to retire,” says a daily paper.
This doesn’t mean, however, that any member of
the Parkes Ministry is of a retiring disposition.
The N.S.W. Anti Chinese League have
ordered a thousand jerseys with the letters
“ C.M.G.” emblazoned on the breast. No degra-
dation to the wearers is intended. These letters
stand for “ Chinese Must Go.”
Plunkett, new member for the Logan (Q.),
has made up his mind to at once become a great
statesman. His very first move was to send a
circular to every elector in his constituency asking
if- he wanted any road formed or bridge built.
Premier Parkes last week made two im-
portant declarations. One was that, should he
ever be so unfortunate as to have to form another
Ministry, there should be no open questions
between the. members ; and the other that, in
future, he would be exceedingly chary in giving
assent to any more intercolonial exhibitions.
In Ireland, a few weeks ago, an estate of
20<)K acres, with a mansion and entrance lodge,
both furnished, sold for £B3o—about Os’, an acre
and the furnished mansion thrown in. Thus do
the blessings of British ride, and the glories of
the Freetrade system which England inflicted
upon Ireland by force and fraud and violence,
assert themselves at auction.
Colonel King-Harman, whose death was
cabled last week, has just been figuring as the
hero of a Tory job. Last year the Colonel was
appointed Under-Secretary for Ireland, on the
distinct understanding tint he would draw no
salary, but, at latest dates, the Salisbury Govern-
ment were running a bill for his pecuniary benefit.
Anxiety about the “greed,” acting upon an en-
feebled constitution, settled the fate of the Under-
Sec. and his little bill.
Mr. Frank Suttor, who formerly held
office in several foreign-trade N.S.W. Ministries,
met with a splendid reception when at Bathurst
the other night he proceeded to justify his conver-
sion to Protection by narrating his experiences of
foreign travel. He made a good point when he
unearthed an out-and-out Protective speech de-
livered by Sir Henry, then plain Mr. Parkes, in
1851). Then can be but little' doubt that Mr.
feuttor will, at next election, regain his old seat
by a sweeping majority.
The new Emperor of Germany proclaims
that he us going to “foster piety and guard the
right.” , The idea of any of the Hohenzollerns
‘fostering piety,” considering what is known of.
their private lives, is. indeed a colossal joke. The
late Emperor Frederick was universally regarded
on the Continent as an atheist, and he never took
the slightest trouble to remove that impression.
As to “guarding the right,” this young Imperial
tyke no doubt means the country to the right -of
the French frontier. By-aud-bye, however, he
may want to guard also a little bit of the left.
The Birmingham Daily Post has just
published same startling revelations in re the local
sweating system. The Post declares that four
years of such heart breaking labour suffice to
transform a strong hearty girl into a decrepit,
wrinkled woman, too nearly blind to earn more
than 3j. (id. a week at home-work, and out of that
mockery of a livelihood to find her own thread
and needles ! “My sister wants me to start
tailoring again,” said a slatternly prostitute to a
detective constable ; “ but even the life I’m lead-
ing is better than that, bad as it is, God knows !”
The moderate swearing of a recently-
deceased Australian capitalist’s big real and per-
sonal estate is accounted for by " the fact
that much of his freehold land was pur-
chased in the names of his sons. They were
nominal owners of the broad acres while papa
held the. deeds—a little arrangement which works
very harmoniously in a united-family. The value
of each estate so economically conveyed to the
now absolute owners is reckoned in the equal-
parts division of the whole bag of tricks and the
baffled Revenue can indulge in an abortive howl.
Extract from the election address of Can-
didate Hoolan, of Queensland :
“ I fully believe there aie better statesmen amongst the
miners and mechanics of the North than those now occu-
pying the Treasury benches. In making this statement I
particularise a miner named ltoolan, who, for the past 13
years, has been burrowing underground, while blatant
ignoramuses with not a fortieth part of his intellect and
talent have ridden over him rough-shod. I stand before
the electors with a whole heart, a generous mind, a sound
body, a stainless reputation, a fearless nature, and an in-
tellect capable of overturning a kingdom or remodelling
the whole world. If you accept me you will have a repre-
sentative to be proud of li you reject me, I will remain
what 1 have been through life a man. Under any cir-
cumstances, I will always remain, dear boys, yours lov-
ingly, John Hoolan.”
The Pa-kcS Government the other day
brought forward in the N.S.W. Assembly a seiies
of- railway proposals involving the expenditure of
£11,000,000 of public money—-more than half of it
being for the North Coast line, where steamboat
competition will reduce the rates to starvation
limit. When Parkes was last in power he com-
mitted the country to an outlay of £22,000,000 on
public works, and then left Stuart, Dibbs, and
Jennings to find the interest on the money, and
when they failed to make ends meet he cursed
them by all the gods of finance for their “extra-
vagance.” This time he will hand down a liability
of £11,000,000 and-then curse some more at the
men who do not square up his mighty shortage.
The stupid falsehood about the inaugura-
tion of an era of Freetrade in the States has
suddenly and ignominiously exploded. The new
tariff lias been published and the N.Y. Herald, a
leading Freetrade organ, .views it with a sorrowful
eye and wails :
“ It is not a ‘ Freetrade ’ measure ; on the contrary, no
Freetrader can examine it without strongly disapproving
very many of its provisions. It is a measure for tariff
revision made strictly from the Protectionist standpoint,
and there is not a section or clause in it- which does not
show, the influence of Protectionist opinion oHTotectioni-.t
information upon those who framed it.”
Therefore the S.M, Herald ceases to whoop, and
in King-street, Sydney, there is the sound or the
Telegraph weeping and refusing to be comforted.
Rus'den writes to the Times ridiculing the
idea that Australia is solid with Parnell in re
Home Rule. Rutden is right. Australia is no
more absolutely solid as to Home Rule than she is
absolutely solid with regard to Imperial Federa-
tion. Most of Australia’s leading public men and
the hangers on at the various Government Houses
worship at the shrine where titles are dispensed ;
they support Home Rule with their lips, but only
lest they should be accused (with regard to the Im-
perial Federation scheme) of treachery to the com-
paratively free institutions under which they live,
for if they openly advocated Coercion they
would stand convicted before the Australian
populace of disloyalty to the Australian national
cause of complete self-government and anti-Im-
perial ism.
Two of the Mount Rennie prisoners now
undergoing imprisonment for life as a result of
shameless evidence given at a shameful trial, are
in the madhouse. Numberless promises have been
given that their case should be reconsidered, and,
though no living soul can now possibly believe in
his heart that the evidence on which four of the
boys were convicted and hanged and on which
others are now in prison was worth the slightest
credence, the inevitable enquiry, which must
come sooner or later, seems to be carefully burked.
The position of those who took a chief official part
in this hideous travesty of justice is now a terribly
awkward one. The Bulletin offers its cordial
condolences to Governor Carington and the daily
papers in this matter. It is a' very bad thing to
have a hard heart and a soft head.
The Melbourne foreign-trade papers, the
A rugs and D. T,, continue to yelp at Judge
Williams for his outspoken words on Australian
Separation. Had Mr. Williams whined a lot of
twaddle about, the glories of Imperial Federation
we would not have heard such an outcry about the
iniquity of a Supreme Court Judge descending
from his lofty estate into the arena of politics.
The holy Daily Telegraph had far better get its
meek staff of well-greased parsons to castigate Judge
Williams for the apparent enthusiasm wherewith
he administers brutal laws which, not content
with shutting up a criminal for the term of his
natural life, inflict upon the miserable wretch the
torture of the lash as well..- The cross which the
clergy carry up the steep 'stairs leading to the
editorial departments of the various daily papers
is a “ property ” article, hollow, light, and beauti-
fully upholstered; but the cress they prescribe for
the sinners at the gaol is beastly real, and there’s
no nonsense about the knots on the whipcord.


HAR




¥‘DT?nirTT2Q can be effectually eradicated by
f A JS U JV If ja U the use of Clements’Frecklebane
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and a’l ohemists.
Beware of worthless imitations.
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “ Detective Soap.” .Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on the flowers.*
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED*
Established 1853,
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru<
ments: —
mu ail LmEm pianos,
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTEY A Co, AMERICAN ORGANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W.H. PALING ft GO-, Ud.
V 56 GEORGE STREET, three Door* from Q P. 3
Society
A Southern bigwig has proceeded to tike
the starch out of the gorgeous robes which
have been assumed by the N.S.W. Judges on
State occasions since the inauguration of the
Parley ian regime. Solomon in all his glory was
a sesdy-looking individual compared with
Speaker Davies, of the Victorian Assembly.
During the recess, seemingly, that right
honourable gentleman has invested some of his
countless wealth in a scheme for transforming
himself into a thing of beauty and a joy for never.
In a word, he has imported a state robe which is
the same as that worn by his distinguished friend
at Westminster, only much newer. The mascu-
line reason reels and totters as it attempts to
grasp the probable cost of this last addition to
Davies’s personal effects. It would exhaust the
adjectives of 10 descriptive writers and make a
bird of paradise moult with blank despair—
Of blackest satin, worked in rich brocade
Of rarest beauty, is that garment made,
And glittering gaily on its dazzling sheen
(Like summer sunbeams lighting up the scene)
Are beauteous bands of solid shining gold,
Worth monarch's ransom even ten times told.
Mr. Davies was elected to his lofty billet on the
understanding that he would “ entertain largely.”
His gown realises the most extravagant expec-
tations.
♦ # *
Pathos loses its force when it is boiled down
too much. Pathos, properly so-called, is a long
thing and tolerably slippery, and mournful gush
is longer still, being pathos dragged out thin like
a snake hauled out from an ash-barrel when it
doesn’t want to come. Pathos, in unaccustomed
hands, grows too flabby to stand up, and then it
degenerates into funereal gush, but funereal gush
may be compressed to any extent without being
resolved back into pathos. It is a demoralised
and washy tiling that can never be put into
reasonable shape any more, and these two adver-
tisements from the Argus are good examples of it:
CAN not explain what heart contains ; don’t know
seif; painful reason ; misunderstanding. ; Very
ill; do best.
T\7"ILL memory bring back fifty-nine last year?
’ ’ Words before or after would give pleasure.
Patho3 evidently won’t cut up into sixpen’orths
for the agony-column of the daily press Out of
mercy to the little sentiment which still remains
in human nature, no newspaper shoidd ever pub-
lish less than half-a-erown’s worth of pathos.
. * *
Dear Bulletin,— Didn’t the S.M. Herald
Eeople commit a gross breach of etiquette by
ying a Union Jack half-mast high without a
white border on the occasion of the death of the
Emperor Frederick of Germany ? —Yours, The
Strand. [The Australian nation hereby gives to
the S.M. Herald and everybody else the right to
fly the Union Jack or any other piece of rag as
they darned well please. —Ed. B.]
A correspondent, writing to the Mel-
bourne Argus, suggests that it would be a touch-
ing feature of the opening ceremony of the Exhi-
bition if the Early Pioneers of the colony were
rounded up and exhibited in a conspicuous posi-
tion. We think so, too. But the trouble is,
would the Benevolent Asylum authorities let them
out for the day ? Then, again, would the Com-
missioners agree to send them back in the same
order and condition as received ? A file of police-
men —disguised as distinguished Exhibition
officials so as not to hurt the feelings of the old
boys—might carry out this pg,rt of the programme
if the Chief Commissioner of Police would give
his consent, but we don’t fancy he would. Some-
how, we think there is too much poetry about the
idea for it to be practicable.
* *
A lecturer on the Chinese Question, speak-
ing in the Collingwood (Melbourne) Town Hall,
the other night, said : “ I have seen a great many
weddings and funerals in China, but the difficulty
I experienced in regard to them was to tell which
was which.” There is no such difficulty here, as a
general thing. The present writer at one time
enjoyed the advantage of living in a house which
commanded the main approach to a church and
the main road to a cemetery, and has seen a
funeral and a wedding go along for a short dis-
tance side by side at times. On th<=se occasions
he has .noticed with grim joy (being himself some-
what married) the wistful glances the bridegroom
would throw at the hearse as though he would
like to change places with the corpse. There was
no reciprocity, however. Trust a corpse to know
when he is well off.
* # •
Once a year or so the brawny Caledonians
of Wellington district (N.Z.) gather together, to
show their muscle, and drink whisky, and sing
weird Highland songs in petticoats, and mutually
admire each other, and on these occasions Tonalt
foregathers with Tuncan, and the MTherson and
theMTavish lie down together under the table
when the revels are over, and great rejoicings
take place. But this year there was a fly in the
ointment—an amusing old cuss, who had come
along for the express purpose of bringing obloquy
down on the sins of parritch and haggis, and till-
ing the Heilan’men wi’ wrath and uncharitable-
ness. He was a long, mean old man, with Cock-
ney written in every line of his countenance, and
he wore an outrageous, degrading costume of fluff
and rags and dishcloths, which floated in the
breeze as a disgusting parody upon the garb of the
Gael. His kilt consisted of a feminine skirt cut
short, and he stalked along with a pair of long,
famine-stricken drumsticks feebly disguised in
two red stockings, which had evidently been in-
tended for the limbs of a robust female ta x payer.
The calves of these twin bags were stuffed with
straw to such an extent that the wearer's legs
could not pass each other except by describing a
wide circle with the limb that was travelling,
while his body revolved round the stationary prop.
The tops of his stockings were turned down and
the whites of his eyes were turned up. Mixed
up in some mysterious way with the degradation
of the.alleged kilt the shivers of a pair of pants
were just discernible, and they looked as-if a
Chinaman had got tired of them and given them
to a dog, and the dog had slept in them till the
cold weather came on and made him seek a more
promising shelter. As if this were not in itself a
sufficient insult to Roderick Dhu and the rest of
the brose-fed warriors of the past, the kilt was
still further libelled and blasphemously outraged by
the tail extremity of a striped shirt which fluttered
out in the breeze; and with a rabbit-skin for a
sporran, an old sack to serve for a plaid, a greasy
and unhealthy belltopper on his ignoble head and
a big club clutched in his fist this abased parody
on a Scotchman roved about all day amid the
groans of the infuriated Caledoni.ns. He was
too big to be punched, and the smile on his face
showed that he was out for a lark and was enjoy-
ing himself, but the Highlanders did not share in
the fun, somehow, and the proceedings looked as
sad as the funeral of the original seed Scotchman'
upon the northern hills.
• * *
From the Melbourne Aue :—“ Night
Watchman wanted in Brewery. Apply, &c.”
What an Elysian billet for a decayed journalist !
* * *
’Tia now quite the fashionable amusement
in Rockhampton for the men to “wallop” their
wives. The other day a lawyer wa3 defending
one of those woinen-pounders when he said :
“You are aware, your Worship, that his better
half .” P.M. : “Stop! You mean his bat-
tered half.”
* * *
A small dude who was temporarily off the
chain got married in Sydney some ten days ag s ,
and accompanied by his little pansy blossom he
took apartments in an elegant boarding-house.
Owing to the fact that the board amounted to
four guineas weekly while he only earned 355.,
combined with the circumstances that ihe 355.
wasn’t enough to pay for clothes and theatre-
tickets, and that his father said he would be
dashed before he would keep him, and her mother
COMPARATIVE RICHES.
“WE’VE GOT A NEW BABY IN OUR HOUSE THERE!”
“THAT’S NOTHING. WE'VE GOT THE BAILIFF IN OURS.”
‘couldn’t keep her but wanted to come and live
with them instead, and other troubles, the event
did not turn out happily, and after a brief and
stormy epoch of tears, tight boots, quarrels, in-
solvency, reconciliation, vituperation, hallucina-
tion, aggravation and consternation, they left
through the window and did not return any more.
The bill stands thus Two weeks’ board, £8 Bs.;
cash borrowed, 2s Gd.; washing, 10s. (id.; breaking
two vases by throwing them at his wife, 12s. Gd.;
final destruction of same through her throwing
them back again and stating with tears that he
was a ber-rute, 12s. 6d.; damage to toilet-set
during a discussion in the course of which he called
her an old fowl, 25.; fearing a she c t when she said
that mamma was coming to see them, 35.; postage
stamps to write to his uncle about a legacy of
£lOO,OOO which was coming to him, on receipt, of
which he would pay up, 2d.; further discussion
about his uncle and abusing the landlady for
saying that she didn’t believe there was such a
person, Id.; omnibus fare to see his uncle, Is. (id.;
taking away some wine and forgetting to return
it, 55.; broken window, Is. 6d. : total, £lO 19s. Gd.
The landlady states that “ the way parties do
himpose on a poor lone widder is puffickly
sickening.”
* * *
A Mackay (Q.) paper mentions in cold
blood that “Arthur Vandeleur Montague Robin-
son has gone South with a mob of cattle.” We
don’t know whether Arthur Vandeleur Montague
is accustomed to cattle or hot, but if he isn’t, we
are prepared to bet that before he has gone many
miles he will feel as common as if his name were
only Bill.
* * *
The rude forefathers of Byron Bay
(N.S.W.) have been agitating-for years for the
establishment of a telegraph-office in their rocky
fastnesses, and have finally struck a bargain by
which they guarantee that the takings for the first
year shall amount to £B2, and for succeeding
years to £52 of legal cornstalk tender. The day
before the first guarantee expires they intend to
meet for refreshments in the vicinity of the local
office ; then they will ascertain the amount of the
gate-money realised by the electric spark up to
date, and instead of paying the shortage in hard
cash, or in corn, or. other value, they will proceed
to send telegrams to every Billy and Sally of their
acquaintance until the profits have reached the
requisite figure. By this expedient many a far-off
mother wi 1 be apprised that her lost son still
totters in his earthly habitation, and while the
widow and the orphan will be comforted the
guarantors will get the bulge on the Government
of their rowdy land by making it dc something for
its money, and everybody will feel contented.
* * *
Wife : “Be sure to advertise for Fido in
the newspaper.” Husband : “Never fear. I’ll
tie a knot in my handkerchief.” Next morning
wife reads in the morning paper : —“Five shillings
reward. —Lost, a measly yellow cur with one
eye and no tail. Too fat to walk. Answers to
the name of Fido. Smells like a cheap perfumery -
shop after a fire. If returned (stuffed) £5 reward.”
• * *
The Ilev. Breach, Presbyterian “ meenis-
ter ” of New Plymouth (N. /.), is a man of
muscle ; he is no slouch with Lis hands, and kicks
like a mule in its prime. He had a little difference
with his lambs a while back, in consequence of
his Wages having run into arrears and not being
forthcoming on demand, and he straightway
bounced the whole crew out of the sanctuary, and
held the fort for some time, his family and friends
tossing cold boiled hog, senna tea, and other sus-
tenance in to him through a window. The
church committee took legal proceedings, and
secured a power of attorney and a force of police
to storm the fort. “ Once more to the Breach,
dear friends ! ” exclaimed the valiant vestryman
who led the expedition, when it had kicked a hole
through the x>lace of worship, and the besiegers
dashed in upon the pugilistic.parson, who knocked
the vestryman askew, and repulsed the storming
party with several in the ear, and a blow from a form.
After which the Rev. Breach secured an advan-
tageous eminence in the pulpit, strengthening
his position with several loose articles of furniture,
whilst the enemy repaired its front, and called the
roll. When the vestryman had rallied he sounded
the charge once more, but the parson opened on
his lines with a dissertation from an old sermon
on “ Hell in the summer months,” pitching his
voice to a high key, and the besiegers, repulsed
again, retired in wild confusion to the vestibule,
where they plugged their acoustic orifices with
tracts. The conflict was renewed in due time,
and, after a terrific conflict, in the midst of which
the parson appeared to great advantage, hitting
out with the fury of a zealot and spreading his
enemies like leaves in autumn, he was compelled
to succumb to numbers, and such of the storming
party as were unencumbered by breaks and
bruises towed him out of the temple and propped
him against a tree. The latest information from
the scene of action is to the effect that the valiant
cleric is about to sue for £2OO for sermons delivered.
* * *
The following is from the obituary column
of a Victorian paper, and to the eye of the un-
educated man it seems to be decidedly rough on the
corpse:— -
“ She grew in b'eauty side by side,
And filled our home with glee ;
Her grave is severed far and wide
By mount and stream and sea.”
Most painfully widespread lady that ever we
heard of. We would respectfully add another
verse :
Like the leaves of the forest when summer is
green
That numerous female at sunset was seen ;
Like the leaves of the forest when autumn hath
blown,
That dame on the morrow lay scattered and
strewn.
* « *
It has been officially recorded in a Govern-
ment “minit” that the Chinese nation hasn’t
drunk any of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine for several
thousand years, and that their moral and physical
degradation is owing to the want of the only thing
which can keep the human race up to the mark.
A true story of colonial life, As narrated
at a Ballarat Court the other day. It was early
summer time, the grass in the paddocks was yet
green and sweet, wild flowers in great profusion
bespangled the sward, and parrots of brilliant
plumage chattered and swung in the pensile
boughs of the blossoming white gums. ’lwas a
meethauntfurlovers, thatspotin the solitudes of the
forest, and there the lovers strolled. His arm was
wound about her taper waist to assist her over the
chips, and in her willing ear he whispered airy
trifles, whilst she blushed demurely and occa-
sionally observed, “Oh, get away now, do !” with
a great show of tirmness. Presently he uttered a
frenzied ejaculation, and hastily planted his
heart’s delight behind a clump of saplings.
Another couple came with lingering steps and
slow, strolling over the brow of the hill. “ Great
Scott!” he exclaimed; “that’s my wife !” “In-
deed !” said she ; “it’s well we dodged—that’s my
old man!”
* * •
They say that things will shortly be made
very sultry for one of the richest old curmudgeons
in Victoria.
# • ■*
The Sydney “ subpoena-trick ” has been
adopted with much success at Williamstown (Vic).
The subpmna is a mighty engine in the hands of
a dexterous man.
* * *
The iniquities of mining sharks are spread-
ing and seizing upon the community at large.
Melbourne publicans are charged with salting
their quarts.
* * •
“Pay as you go” is a good precept, but
experience has taught us that those who go never
pay at all. We allude to no member in particular.
On Sunday night one well-known Sydney
man said to another: “I’ll bet you a sovereign
that when the account of to-day’s German Ser-
vice at Pitt-street Church, in memory of Emperor
William comes out to-morrow in the daily papers,
it will be stated that 1 the Church was beautifully
decorated for the occasion by Messrs. Blank
Blank, and Co., the eminent drapers.’” And
so it was.
* » *
The Marquis of Queensberry’s letter to
The Bulletin has utterly nonpluss d the Mel-
bourne “ fancy,” who were about arranging a gory
carnival agin his lordship’s arrival in that city.
A movement to induce ladies to remove
their hats when in church, which was mooted in
Melbourne some time back, has lapsed. The idea
was not encourage d by the clergy ; they under-
stand that it js hat-traction which draws the
softer sex into the temple.
* * *
The San Francisco News Letter in a re-
cent issue starls out to sum up the philosophy of
the universe and the mysteries of the past, the
present, and the future. It manfully tackles the
depths of the infinities and the greatness of the
unseen, and disposes of this gigantic contract in a
dozen sentences, thus :
“A hundred million years ago a boy sat on a log that
crossed a deep brook, dabbling his toes in the water, lie
had been swimming : he was playing hookey ; he was
having a good time. The world was .young, also the sun,
likewise the stars. All the eternal things were in their
bright boyhood. Fifty million years later the same boy,
beneath the same moon', was spooning a girl. Something
Came of it, for fifty million more years passed, and another
boy, the offspring of the threatened union, dabbled his
toes in another brook, where he, too, had been in
swimming. The world had grown old then, the moon
had died, all the eternal things were ageing. Only the
boy with his toes in the water could not see it. Because
he was only a hoy and did not know any better. For all
he could tell, life was still worth living. Brethren—
sistern—lectern : why can ye not get things in historical
perspective, and duly correlate the eternities ? Ye are
the boy who dabbled his toes an hundred million years
ago, before the moon went dead. Yea, ye are they who
spooned fifty million years later, when the moon svas dead
as a herring and hung up like that fish to dry. In another
hundred million years lhat celestial object will be no
deader than it is now-, nor the world any older to the in-
teresting child with his then toes in the' then water. The
universe is as old as thou art, and no other. The universe
w-ill last tby time, and not one second longer—that is
not for thee. All history is what thou hast been ; all
poetry is what thou feelest; the sum of human knowledge
is what thou kuowest. Thou canst not prove that it is
one tittle more. All the wine in the world for thee—is
what thou hast drunk : all the wealth in the world—
for thee—is what thou has spent ; all the song in the
world—forthee—is that whichthouhast sung. Then, for the
credit of thy Maker, make not thou an ass of thyself.
Learn, drink, sing, spend all thou canst; thus shall thy
life be ordered in harmony with the uoiverse. Brethren,
dabble your toes.”


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best oolonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
[Interesting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully reoeived
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.*
[?]
846 Maequarie-street North, Sydney, June 27, 1888.
My Dear Moorabixda,— All Sydney is talking about
the magnificent entertainments which Mayor Harris will
give some of these days at the Town Hall. When I say
all Sydney, of course 1 don’t necessarily mean Mayor
Harris himself. The Mayoress of Melbourne, by the way,
gave her first reception months and months ago, but so
far the lady who presides over civic society in the city of
the Beautiful Harbour has made no sign. However, it is
never too late to mend, and we are all hoping for the
best. I heard a man say the other day that Mr. Harris
labours under one terrible disadvantage during his present
term of office : he no longer has Mr. John Davies to act as
his guide, counsellor, friend, and social mentor.
An irascible rich man, who has a mansion building in a
Sydney suburb, had a quarrel with one of his workmen,
and the fellow, enraged, has vowed that he will .set a nest
of white ants somewhere in the building ! Could any
threat be more dreadful to the owner of a spick and span,
brand-new house ?
An old lady with a small hand-bag went into a
Sydney refreshment-room the other day, sat down, and
ordered a cup of tea. It was brought her, and she
took up the sugar-spoon—opened her bag, and dropped
three lumps of sugar into the bag—closed it—put the
spoon back and commenced to sip. Three girls at a con-
tiguous table began to giggle at this juncture, and the old
lady, surveying them calmly, said: “ I suppose it does
make you laugh to see me put the sugar into my bag, but
I don’t eat sugar, and I have a canary at home which lives
on it almost;, so I don't see why I shouldn’t take what I
pay for.” Undeniable, wasn't it?
~ Our Mrs. Malaprop’s very latest. On being spoken to
about certain alterations in a dress she quite concurred
with the dressmaker. “Yes,” said the gilded one, “it
. certainly will be improved by a little alterating.” Mrs.
Mai. also says that the late Emperor of- Germany would
have been dead long ago if Sir Moreil Mackenzie hadn’t
performed trigonometry upon his throat.
At last Plain Bill Holloway has looked in the glass or
come to his senses : he has consented to somebody a little
more llomeofied playing Borneo to Miss Essie’s Juliet, and
in consequence the Divine William’s love-tale goes in-
finitely better. When a star actress plays Juliet we don’t
require a perfect Irving like our old friend W.H. to play
Romeo; for the one part overshadows the other, and with
Essie JeDyns as Juliet all one requires in Borneo is that he
should have slender legs and a nice voice. Inman has
both of these, and now nobody grins during the balcony-
scene. Speaking of Irving, Mr. A. Lawrence, who takes
the part of lame Pierre in the lachrymose drama of the
duet of Orphans at Her Majesty’s is the proud possessor
of a profile that makes him the only Henry’s double.
I hear that one well-known Sydney society woman pays
eight hundred and sixty pounds a year in servants’ wages
alone.
Relic of barbarism, from the S.M. Herat d: —“To sea-
captains and others. For sale, a.child’s caul. Address,” &c.
A young-old bachelor in a Sydney Government billet
ought to owe a grudge to a mischievous girl who, at a
recent private picnic, tweaked his pretty fair hair and the
whole thing came off in her lily-white hand ! “ 'Twas a
wig?” “Yes, a wig!”
1 hear that one of the Melbourne critics who was
allowed the bliss of an introduction to the gorgeous
Gaiety Burlesquers at the supper given by the Trium-
virate, went away muttering unkind things about the
beauty of the ladies.
Candidly, I don’t like the ■“ Two Orphans,” now playing
at Her Majesty's Theatre, Sydney. It’s too lugubrious
altogether—there are too many hysterics, and the only
avowed lover in the piece brings down the scorn and
derision of all engaged couples present by contenting him-
self in the sole, “love” scene vouchsafed with nibbling
the back of his sweetheart’s hand when the girl’s got her
face with her. The gallery doesn’t seem to have caught
on to the true character of Jacques, and I was much sur-
prised to hear a shout of laughter when the bully robs
Pierre of his little earnings! Is it moral obliquity or
dullness of comprehension on the part of the gods, who,
I may mention, are warned (per programme) not to throw
things or spit on the people in the stalls 1
It is now, I see, considered good form in very “ good ’<
society for the widow of a man with a “handle” to his
name, when she marries a man without one, to call her-
self by her first husband’s name. For instance, Lady
Russell, the relict of Sir Howard Russell, Bart., marries
Mr. Baker, and thenceforward she continues to style herself
Lady Russell, and not Mrs. Baker ! This ought to lead to
awkward complications, especially if a Social Purity man
lived next door, and didn't understand, the ways of the
upper ten thousand. One thiog that I notice about this
question of married women keeping to their maiden
names is that when Miss Bloggs marries Mr. Mortimer she
calls herself Mrs. Mortimer, but when Miss Mortimer
marries Mr. Bloggs she hangs on to her virginal patrony-
mic like grim death. Speaking of names—a Sydney
tradesman is written up “H. M. Mails,” and when his
cart flits by excited postmen spring out, thinking to get a
lift to the G.P.O.
An historic Sydney suburb has lately been blessed with a
new Anglican church and a thousand-pound organ, and
the glory has been too much for it. Before the seats in
the new edifice were generally allotted certain of the
older inhabitants were invited to choose their pews, and
this seems to have nettled some of those members of the
congregation who had not been consulted as to the allot-
ment aforesaid. Whatever the cause of the trouble, there
can be no doubt as to the result. A lady member of the
congregation, considering herself aggrieved by certain re-
marks said to have been made concerning her or her
family by one of the churchwardens, complained to her
brothers, young gentlemen well known in Sydney athletic
circles, who severally, set %l>out inflicting personal
chastisement on the churchwarden in question. A police-
court case resulted, which ended in the affectionate
brothers being each fined a shilling with costs, and the
amount of the churchwarden’s doctor's bill; and now a
letter of condolence to the churchwarden on this mon-
strous failure of justice is lying in the church-vestry for
signatures. lam told that some very amusing side issues
of this Little Pedlington controversy promise to see
light before long.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s first Chopin recital
eventuated on the 20th inst. at Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall,- and
proved as I expected, a genuine treat for the lovers of
music in Sydney—who are a small flock, in truth, though
if you judged by their attendance at concerts and classi-
cal recitals you might disagree with me, forgetting that
an apparent devotion to Euterpe is now-a-days amongst
the soulless who ape culture often as false—well, as false
as So-and So’s charming complexion and Miss Asterisk’s
beautiful bust. The hall was crowded with the sheep and
the goats, who all applauded together. Madame Keller-
mann was at her best, and that is saying a great deal,
and I am only sorry that she did not give us one of
Chopin’s mazourkas, too, which, though perhaps simple
as regards technique, are marvellously characteristic. The
evening of the 25th inst. is decided upon for the next
recital.
Sydney Hunt Club met at 9.80 a.m. at the Parramatta
railway station on the 18th inst., and had one of the
stiffest runs of the season. The meet, however, was well-
attended, and the bold and finished riding of a Campbell-
town lady, who took the :tiffest timber like a bird,
evoked the admiration of all present. At the conclusion
of the rim most of the sportsmen hied to Rosehill to the
Bennett complimentary meeting, which was largely at-
tended by ladies in their best bibs and tuckers.
On 18th inst., Madame Summerhayes, assisted by some
of her friends and pupils, gave a pianoforte recital in the
presence of a large audience assembled by invitation.
Madame Summerhaye3 (who wore a becoming costume
of black velvet bodice and train and ciel-blue surah jupe)
was heard to great advantage—most especially in
Gottschalk’s tender “ Last Hope,” which is the best-named
composition I ever heard. Her pupils—for the most part
painfully young—acquitted themselves well, though, of
course, some errors were apparent, but —goodness!—
when I was in pinafores wild dragons couldn’t have got
me on.to the platform even—much less could they have
made me perform when I got there ! How Ido hate the
musical old cats who squirm in their seats and say: “Tut,
tut, what an error ! ” when an eight-year-old makes a
small mistake! Put them up there with the gas-glare
about them and the bright sea of faces beside them, and
if they don’t make three false notes a stave in that absurd
air “ Lilia’s a Lady,” I’m a Dutchwoman 1
The Crystal Palace Skating Rink, York-street, Sydney,
under the management of Mr. Alfred Wyburd, opened on
the evening of 21st inst., in the presence of many
.spectators, who much admired the Oriental devices
and adornments of the new rink. A feature of the open-
ing was the Bicycle Club parade—the evolutions of the
glittering wheels and the gyrations of the gaudy wheel-
men-being received with special enthusiasm. Speaking
of rinks reminds me that Mr. H. J.-Wallace, champion
skater of the world, has “glcde” himself into a fortune
over in Melbourne, where he only arrived two years ago.
Tne fortune came, of course, in the pleasing shape of a
wife, worth £60,000, £20,000 of which she has settled on
her luvin’ husband. A certain other athlete wasn’t quite
so fortunate in his heiress, though he, of course, deserved
all he got. A rich young lady, to whom he was engaged,
discovered that this muscular youth had jilted a girl on
the day before he was to be married to the latter, and she
decided to avenge her sex. So she let him know she was
well gilt, and showed a preference for his society. He
proposed, she accepted. Wedding fixed. Day came.
Guests gathered. Telegram from the lady. She had
taken a leaf out of his book—thrown him over at the last
moment, and left the colony. Hs could only accept the
situation.
Sydney is to have Signor Tessero’s French Comedy Com-
pany at the Gaiety Theatre next week. lam told
that a local subscription-list of over £lOOO has already
been secured. In Melbourne the company commenced
playing with a list of £l5OO, which amount will, in all
probability, be exceeded in the city of the B. H. Parley
voofrongsay? Wee, mounseer. Potts Point is now per-
spiring over Ollendorff and the French dictionary, to say
nothing of Bellenger’s French idioms, which, though an
old book, is the very best French teacher I ever had. The
ways of society are curious. At an English comedy good
breeding is indicated by a superior air of boredom. While
the French Comedy dragged its length along at Mel-
bourne, society (translation in hand) showed its great
intimacy with the French language by accentuating all
the points with sympathetic smiles and shrieks in various
keys.
While Signor Tessero was in Paris lately he asked Sara
Bernhardt if she was willing to visit Australia. Madame
’ replied, “Oh yes, she was quite willing to go to Australia—
quite willing to go almost anywhere.” And then, as to her
terms? “Well,” answered the divine Sara, “firstly, I
require a contract for not less than 100 performances,
10,000 francs (say £400) to be paid for each (£40,000 for
the whole). „ Secondly, half-a-million francs (say £20,000)
must be paid into the bank in advance as a guarantee
against a managerial crisis. Next, all travelling and
hotel expenses must be defrayed and I must always have
at my disposal, free of cost, when on shore, a wqll-
appointed carriage. Then there are a few other little
items over which we need not talk at present—anyhow
lam sure we’d not quarrel over them.” Tessero said he
would consider. He is still considering.
That hard-working corps, the Sydney Philharmonic
Sjciety, gave their first concert of the season on 21st inst.
in the University Hall, on which occasion an oratorio by
a French composer, Jules Massenet, was produced.
“Mary Magdalene” was the title, and the name-part
thereof was taken by Miss Colborne-Baber, who sang her
part with real dramatic force. Miss Yiolette was Martha
(she got tea ready whilst her repentant relative sat on a
soft hassock), and if her voice had been better qualified
for being audible across five backyards in a westerly gale,
and had had less sweet softness of tone, she would have been
a greater success in “ oratio”—as I heard a gorgeous woman
in flowered satin pronounce it. Kowalski conducted with
his usual skill, and the audience, as Lady Carington was
advertised to be present, comprised, of course, all Sydney
We women little dream of the fearful tribulations those
poor unsheltered men have encountered, and are en-
countering during this year of grace ’BB, whioh, alas ! for
them, is leap year ! I myself really thought that the old
custom of girls proposing to their flame 3 was happily
obsolete; but, in sporting phraseology, I find I was on
the outside track altogether. An unhappy male who
resides at Croydon (Sydney) has received already no
fewer than five leap-year proposals, each fair, self-
appointed hride stating, in decisive handwriting, that if
he didn't marry her he would have to present her with
either “ gloves or a parachute” as an equivalent to con-
nubiality ! Their unanimity on the subject of what was
sufficient compensation was surprising, ihe only variation
being in the size of the gloves, which ranged from poetical
6} to generous eight’s.
The Women’s Industries Exhibition promoters are now
on the war-path in Sydney, endeavouring, by means of
weird and voluble lady canvassers, to induce anyone who
can do anything to do it at once. All sorts of things are
to be classed as exhioits : and won’t there be a widespread
desire to scratch the judges’ faces and pull out their
back-hair when the prize-winners are announced ! In my
opinion, the unwary male who judg. s at a baby-show or a
woman’s exhibition takes his life in his hand 1 Speaking
of these canvassers reminds me of one especially pushing
young lady on an eastern circuit who the other day
knocked at a door and had it opened by a gentleman,
whom her shrewd eye recognised at once as the master of
the house. As she was drumming for the women’s indus-
tries, only one course lay open, and that was : “Good
afternoon ; is your wife within ?” “I am sorry to say she
is not,” returned the door-opener, slowly ; “ she has been
dead just a week to-day !”
A correspondent draws my attention to a lady who
advertises in the S.M. Herald for boarders and states
that her house is not situated at “ Terrace-street,
Sydney.” My correspondent waxes wroth at the slight
cast upon ’* Terrace ’’-street, and concludes indignantly :
“We have lodged there.” Well, and so have I. In that
gorgeous thoroughfare kaleidescopically-attired women
with prominent profiles are always going in and out
clanging iron gates behind them. There, when Phiubus
sinks into the west, the usurer’s family light many lights
which burn bright with the oil of the Civil servant who
has been 60 per shented, and part the curtains dyed red
with the blood of the unwary, and throw up the windows
to enable the dwellers in the opposite terrace to gaze, and
marvel at the glitter within, whilst showy young women
torture hundred-guinea piano 3 and squeal scratchy
soprano songs till far into the night. Yes, I have lodged
in “ Terrace ’’-street, and all its ways are known to me.
And I hold it as more unquiet than even Macquarie-
street when the night is advanced and Mr. M'Elhone is on
his legs. Everyone in at least one part of Macquarie-
street knows how idle it is to dream of repose when the
member for the Upper Hunter goes for a big reform at
three in the morning.
Here is a romantic story for the truth of which I can
vouch. The other day a leading Sydney solicitor received
nstructions from London to hunt up a, young man who
had (juitted England 10 years previously, and a draft of
£3OO was enclosed to pay his passage home. After a long
course of advertising a member of a charitable society
called in and directed the solicitor to a certain hovel in
Lower Alexandria, Sydney, a suburb which is built mainly
of old hats and kerosene-tins, broken lath-and-plaster,
fragments of galvanised iron, superannuated rags, pensive
goats, and all sorts of decay ; and the solicitor, knowing
the “ lay ” of the country, judiciously sent his clerk down to
catch the fever instead of doing it in person. That well-
dressed young man explored the barbarous region,
dodging through back lanes and over mud pies and among
broken fences that hung wearily and lop3idedly amid
abysses of mud, and at last he arrived at a hut which
boasted a box and a pile of rags and straw for its sole
furniture. A weary woman who had once been handsome
and who, under happier auspices, would be handsome
again, begged that they should not be turned out of their
dismal abode until her husband was better, and a hollow-
eyed invalid stretched on the pile of rags in the corner
echoed the petition. And these two were the heirs to a
fortune of £30,000! If there are any hidden possibilities
ofjpathos in a solicitor’s clerk I think the messenger must
have shed a few tears as he told them of their good
fortune.
The second day of the Bennett Complimentary llace
Meeting at Rosehill, was numerously attended by all who
take a 100 to 1 interest in the noblest of animals. All the
arrangements (as / understand them) appeared to be per-
fect, only I think the winning numbers might have been
left up just a little longer to give slow comprehensions a
chance. The day being beautifully fine a great many of
the fair sex adorned the lawn and grand-stand arrayed in
their very best turns-out, and if any woman thinks to
wear her second-best to liosehill she must make up her
mind to play second-fiddle when she gets there. One
theatrical charmer, with glittering golden locks, was a
striking figure. She was attired in heliotrope with a
checked trimming—black velvet Gainsborough hat, and
pretty Quaker-like arrangement of cream lace folded
across the bust with most picturesque effect. More ortho-
dox was a dark-green cloth with a bodice embroidery of
gold braid a la militdire —dark-green felt hat with
plumes. A moss-green check trimmed with mess-
green plush was rather too light for the season.
A magpie costume there are always one or two
“mag-pie” gowns at every social function just now—of
black silk with white silk front. A handsome married
lady in black velvet with grey fur boa, red bonnet and tan
boots. Another nice-looking spare rib in brown cashmere
with cream satin side panel and handsome brown dolmah-
ette of brown velvet and fur. Another syren in brown
silk completely spoiled a really handsome costume
by actually wearing dancing shoes! As the wind w 7 as
high the effect is better imagined than described. One
well-known lady wore dark green with a jupe of white
serge embroidered in gold, huge brown fur boa. Fur and
velvet wraps predominated, a 3 the day, tho’ beautifully
fine, was cold enough to make the query current—
“ With blue cold nose and wrinkled brow,
Traveller ! whence comest thou ?”
The train arrangements were simply perfection.
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron broke out into a compli-
mentary dinner to the commodore (Mr, J. It. Fairfax)
on the 23rd instant. Loyalty and loggerheads were,
as usual, the mainstay of the toasting. Apropos,
one of the gentlemen who talked so daringly and nautioally
over the groaning board doesn’t love Neptune when his
waves run higher than an inch, and is in the habit of
saying to his yacht-keeper, when there is the slightest
indication of a “ mare’s tail” in the sky, “ I say, William,
if it’s going to blow, hadn’t we better keep this side of
Watson’s ?” ,
Two or three high jinks are on the immediate tapis.
The Masonic Lodge of St. Andrew intends on the Bth of
July to break out into a ball, to commence at 8.30, at
West’s rooms, Castlereagh-street. The Clyde cricket
club next appropriate the rooms for their ball on the 6th
July, which is to be a plain and fancy-dress affair, and
promises to be a great success. On the 11th, the
usually enjoyable Mercantile ball is to happen, and the
committee inform me that they intend adopting the same
arrangements as last year: the ball is under the patronage
of his Worship the Mayor, and the sale of tickets is
under special supervision, therefore the Mercantiles ought
to score another of their annual successes.
A Darlinghurst prison-official died the other day, and
his advertised obituary ended thus: “Gone where the
,wicked cease from troubling,” &3. This strikes me as
very rough on the poor prisoners.
I hear that at a leap-year ball held lately at Moama
(N S.W.) there were 30 ladies present and only eleven
gentlemen. And just fancy, if you can, what a pleasant
time these eleven had with an all-round average of two
pretty girls and eight-elevenths of another pretty girl
urging them to dance and enquiring at supper-time if
they felt the want of any refreshment. I think if I had
been a man just for once, I would have had quite a lot of
refreshment on that occasion.
To those who believe that Sydney possesses the cream
of Australian society and its ideal ways, it will, I am sure,
come as a surprise to be told of a young lady on the Rich-
mond River who has hit upon the plan of “ sarcastically ”
decorating her rooms for a ball. It may also be men-
tioned that this same young lady attended an entertain-
ment a short while since, for which she obtained “ a pre-
served seat,” and described everything thereat as
“ suburb,” with the exception of the performance of a
female who “attempted something beyond her com-
pacity.”—Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
Parsonal Pars.
Bishop Kennion, of Adelaide, - has come
in for a legacy of £lO,OOO.
A clergyman said he never knew a rogue
who was not unhappy. Of course not: it is the
rogues who are not known that are the happy
ones.
Amongst the prizes offered at a recent
lottery in aid of the Sacred Heart Church, St.
Kilda (Vic.), were two lots of shares in brewery
companies.
Dr. Kelynack, the well-known Wesleyan
minister, of Sydney, believes that the world is
becoming democratic. There are mile-stones on
the Dover-road.
The church is surely becoming scientific.
During a recent sermon a clergyman said- that
Lot’s lady was transformed into a “monolith of
chloride of sodium.”
Varley, the itinerant evangelist, has col-
lected £l5O in Melbourne in aid of a Chinese
mission just when the people are “busting”
themselves to circumvent the Chinp
Rev. Paul Ciipshem now edits the We;-
leyan Advocate, having abandoned the Chris-
tian World. The Advocate is to be congratu-
lated on its editor’s name. Paul is always good,
but Clips’em is excellent.
A “ Human Wick on Fire ” is the heading
of an article in the Melbourne D.T. What a text
for Dr. M‘Eachran in a sermon on Hell! And
yet this only concerned a poor devil who was
spontaneously blown up with rum.
The appalling statement is made in Eng-
land that where one missionary had been sent to
Africa to evangelise the heathen, 70,000 barrels of
rum had been sent for the purposes of barter.
Britain’s bulwark is evidently kept'in wood.
At Lichfield (En£.), recently, three
morally-distorted monsters burgled the residence
of the bishop and carried away, aboijt £lOO in
cash. How much, we wonder,, would Barabbas
and his pal have-realised if they had looted —fcut-
nevermind! m
The Rev. E. P. Roe, the worthy wishy-
washy novelist, says he always invokes the Divine
blessing before beginning a new novel. But he
doesn’t seem to be aware of the still more urgent
necessity for praying for mercy after having
finished his work.
Here is a choice sample of American pulpit
oratory. The Rev, Dr. J. W. Lee, of Atlanta,
said in a sermon—so the local paper says—that
“ the reason the lions didn’t eat Daniel when he
was cast into their den was that he was two-thirds
backbone and the rest pure grit.”
Passenger (to stranger) : “ Minister of the
Gospel, I imagine, sir ? ” Stranger ; “Yes, sir.
I have been a minister of the Gospel for 42 years,
but I am going to retire soon.” Passenger :
“ That is a very sensible move, sir. T think when
a man has made money enough in his business, he
ought to get out of it and enjoy himself.”
Bishop Barry considers that “if living
teachers were employed in connection with our
libraries, galleries, and museums, those institu-
tions would be far more useful.” Perhaps if
“living” teachers were employed in connection
wibh our cathedrals, churches, and Sunday-schools
those institutions would be far more useful also.
This is the experience of an American
clothier. Clergymen are among the most fas-
tidious of his customers. They are debarred, of
course, from wearing anything conspicuous or
flashy, but they always ehoose the finest material.
Silk underwbar, made to order at a great cost, is
a favourite thing with them. Famous or wealthy
men, he says, as a rule, care least about dress.
Wall-street men dress most brilliantly, and actors
dress most showily.
Dr. Dale, who recently visited Australia,
told his Birmingham flock that New South Wales
only provided places of worship for 80 per cent, of
her population, as against accommodation for > 7
and 72 per cent, provided by Victoria and South
Australia. After the meeting everybody returned
home and prayed for an improvement in the
spiritual health of N.S.W. Dr. Dale also stated
that the average Colonial Congregational ministry
is stronger than the British article.
A Gallican bishop was dining at Rome
with a great prince of the church, who inquired
about the situation of his diocese. “I am bishop
of Angouleme,” said the Frenchman ; “ Bishop of
the Department of the Charente,” he added, see-
ing that the Ultramontane eminence, whose strong
point was not modern geography, made no sign.
At last a bright thought struck him. “I am
bishop of Cognac,” s'aid he. “Ah, Cognac!
Cognac ! Cognac !” cried all the guests in chorus,
“that’s something like a bishopric !”
Here is a “ nasty jar ” for the Pope. The
Norfolk News traces the origin of boycotting to
the Council of Tours in 1163. At this Council
the following decree was issued : —“ We command
all bishops and priests to keep a watchful eye upon
the heretics, and to forbid all men, under pain of
excommunication, to harbour, or assist, or trade
with them, that so, through deprivation of the
benefits of society, they may be forced to repent
lof their error. And whosoever shall attempt to
oppose the decree shall be smitten with the same
anathema. ”
Labouchere loves the weed. He writes
“A Presbyterian Convention at Pittsburg has
just passed a rule making it a condition of admis-
sion to the ministry that ‘ the candidate use
tobacco in no form whatever.’ This is a short-
sighted, as well as a narrow-minded, ordinance,
and cannot fail to have a prejudicial effect upon
the ministry. Parsons, whatever sect they may
belong to, ought always to be smokers. Tobacco
widens the sympathies, ripens the judgment, and
softens the temper. It is therefore Nature’s
appointed antidote for all the worst clerical vices.”


Something New in Sewing Machines*
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT!
THE restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of
immense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our calling
s to relieve the home-mother of all that may weary
her in sewing, and to make the same throughout, a
pleasure. That we have during the last seven
years succeeded in so doing, scores of thousands
will testify. And to-day we are supplying a
machine whose range of work is absolutely com-
plete, transcending the hopes and dreams of years.
The construction and form are such as to place it
altogether above and beyond competition, for the
truth of which assertions, as of the following, we
humbly request that your own eyes may be the
Judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra ,
tc the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without;, profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for
blankets, woollens, or other materials; you may
do over-casting or top-sewin|f—never ‘before pos-
sible with Sewing Machines"—as fast as you can
feed the work. And, above all, you can make
single barred or double barred button holes and
eyelet holes, with the most marvellous precision
and perfection. Herein, the fingers of the
practised seamstress cannot with the greatest ex-
penditure of time and labour, produce work of
similar quality. And remember, the Machine-
made button hole, in addition to its beauty,'
is inherently far superior, for each stitch
is Locked. Button holes which ought to
embellish a garment, are often only a disfigure-
ment. Look at our samples and judge the effect
of fine work for yourself. By all means have
good work instead of bad, especially when you
can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of
the arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods
to be sewn freely to pass underneath. This had
to be accomplished without increasing the weight
of the machine. In fact, the Beale runs with
wonderful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent,
all clicking sounds having been obviated. As is
well known, a good test of the finish of any
mechanism is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING. —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent' tension, is
strong and simple. ,
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Catalogues and Samples Fbee by Post.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
open EASY TIME-PAYMENTS.
TATTERSALL’S
MUSTER COSSELTiTIOSS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
«* Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
» Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall's Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
RATOOMBA.— North’s '“Lake ’’ Sub-division
of Katoomba Township will in future be
known as “CARRINGTON PARK.” J. B.
NORTH, Owner.
FOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
BtJtiiiiTiN Office.
Business Announcement.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
©ABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
mm
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed.
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES bV R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
B
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economio
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complbti
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6iB, 6s. 6d.'; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
A
MERICAN PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging epaca
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
QANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Lew.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Stbbstb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustio
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chain
It Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, d’CenoeU-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bee
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB*.
Brief Mention.
A rifle-club—a land syndicate.
Our great political question—Leperation.
Augurs ill—The Sydney Social Purity
Society.
The Sydney housewife rarely cries over
spilt milk, for she knows it is three parts water.
A Melbourne scribe wrote in a Jingo
leader : “ Union is strength.” The compo. made
it “ Onion.”
We read that “at Kiama there is a pig
with only two legs.” Pooh! We can point to
hundreds of them.
At Sandhurst (Y.) the other day, one
John Andrews assaulted William Beer—put a
head on him, of course.
Suburban mayors are becoming educated.
One of these dignitaries, at a recent meeting, de-
clared a resolution carried crim. con.
From Melbourne Age :—“ The witness
found him in bed, and by his side was a half-pint
bottle of whisky half full of rum.” Hie !
Melbourne coroner’s juries are complain-
ing about not getting their fees for attendance.
Nobody seems to think of the corpse—poor thing !
Speaking of old Kaiser William’s death a
Launceston (Tas.) editor says :—“ We remember
nothing so pathetic, except, perhaps, the death of
Socrates.”
A book has been written “ For Middle-
aged Women.” It will be an abject failure. The
author should next write about “Snakes in New
Zealand.”
The great social question in Melbourne
just now is whether Mrs. Rappiport suffers from
kleptomania, or whether she merely klepts for
amusement.
A scheme for killing rabbits with the
human breath has been formulated by an Ameri-
can scientist. Seventy colonial poets await en-
gagements.
There is at Wagga a Chinaman named
Jim Bull. He is half-brother to John Bull, who
sent him along to us, with a letter of introduction,
from Hongkong.
The S.M. Herald has a long article on
“ The Language of Animals.” What a splendid
heading that would make for the N.S.W. Parlia-
mentary reports!
Premier Parkes has decided that in future
no coals shall be allowed in the watch-house. The
bobbies must keep themselves warm by “ belt-
ing ” the prisoners.
A drunk and disorderly was stunned with
a kerosene-lamp at a Hobart hotel lately. The
landlord had heard of the soothing influence of
oil on troubled waters.
There is a policeman in Melbourne named
Dulcare. His untimely appearance has blighted
many a wild Sunday carousal at the little pub.
round the corner. He will not begone.
Kowalski says that many pianos are ruined
every year by the sudden changes of temperature.
This ought to quite reconcile us to the up and
down sort of weather we have had of late.
One William O’Brien is lying under sen-
tence of death at Melbourne for having killed a
rate-collector. Alas for the good old dajts when
men could appreciate a public benefactor !
The young Australian is not a lover of
toil. A Melbourne firm which advertised for “ a
boy to do heavy work ” received only one applica-
tion for the billet, > and the applicant was-dragged
in by his father.
A Melbourne clergyman professes to have
discovered a thick layer of salt and a plug of
tobacco at the bottom of a barrel of beer, and now
his friends are anxious to know if he got to the
bottom by the usual route.
The “ Study of Inebriety ” is the heading
of an article in a Melbourne paper. We may be
wrong, but we certainly think it is a trifle too
rough on the literary staff for the cashier to be
allowed to contribute articles of this kind.
A man, 82 years of age, has been killed
by a Tasmanian “ express train ” —which was pro-
bably going at the rate of about lj miles an hour.
Poor old fellow! If he had been only 81 years
and 11 months old he would have been spry enough
to get out of the way.
A New Zealand paper states, in the bitter-
ness of its grief, that the ancient British rifles
supplied to the local troops are built upon the
principle of the automatic weighing-machine, and
that the enemy will have to drop a penny in the
slit in order to see them go off.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
V Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Coronation Handicap, run at Canterbury Park,
June 28, 1888. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £800 ; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Amusements,
R
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE,
ANOTHER DRAMATIC TRIUMPH.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
MOST EXCITING DRAMA,
THE FORGER’S WIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 25., and Is.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
c
RITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor ... Mr. John Solomon.
Under the managenv fiof
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. P uCICAULT.
SHAKESPEARE T' AUMPHANT.
TWO FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
of
tV. J. HOLLOWAY’S SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY
and last appearance (prior to her departure for
London) of Miss Essie Jenyns.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JUNE 28,
FOR THE LAST TIME,
HAMLET. HAMLET. HAMLET.
produced under the sole direction of w. J. holloway.
Manager for w. J. holloway .... w. h. manning.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAYIS.
LH AMBRA MUSIC H AL.L,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
1884 to 1888.
Come early to secure your seats, in this great
NOVELTY OF FUN.
EVERY EVENING
ELD and HANSON, the GREAT musical kings.
SYLVO, THE INNOVATOR.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
e A R P I o.
SY D N E
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. _ The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
Mr. R. G. AGINTON, the acknowledged
Champion Fancy and Artistic Roller Skater of the
World, Who has just returned from a trip round
the world, has been engaged at an enormous ex-
pense, and will give exhibitions of his wonderful
skill on the rollers every evening for a few weeks
at 9p. m. The Splendid BRASS BAND of the
Naval Artillery will render Choice Selections every
afternoon and evening.
’Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink. _
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi
lion gates.
ADMISSION, Is.
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, WEDNESDAY, JULY 11.
Tickets obtainable from Members of the Com-
mittee ONLY. T „„
Double, 30s. : Gentlemen, 215.; Ladies, 12s. 6d.
W. J. MERRIMAN, Hon. Tres.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
Box 1023, G.P.O.
B
.OTANY 1 BOTANY ! BOTANY !
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
CAR P I O.
OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
U COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals m Australia.
Skating! Skating! Skating!
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a. m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopford, Sub Manager.
HARRY STEGGA,
ITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.:—
hirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
othing in the following makes Cashmere,
iamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Tool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
(vercoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
! o ats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and lravel-
ig Bags, plain and fitted. . Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
■Lavatory and Dressing-Room Provided.
rEIL MAC KAY is NOT authorised to
Canvass for The Bulletin.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
TWO ORPHANS
TWO ORPHANS.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
TREMENDOUS RECEPTION OP
Mr. Bland Holt and his Dramatic Company,
in the most successful of all Sensation Dramas,
THE WORLD.
Prloes as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
C A R P I O.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks.
Acting Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
Last Nights of
Last"'!
Last I
Last j
LastJ
HARRY RICKARDS’
COMEDY and SPECIALITY COMPANY.
BRIC-A-BRAC.
EVERY THING NEW.
Nights
Nights
Nights
.Nights
Positively the Last Nights of the Season.
Admission—3s., 25., Is. ; Doors open at 7;
Commenee at 8.
WIRTH’S GRAND CIRCUS
AND
NEW YORK EQUESCURRICULUM.
Location: ... HAYMARKET SQUARE.
Every Evening at 8.
Gigantic Success!
Houses Crowded to Overflowing 1
Hundreds Turned Away !
Programme that cannot fail to please everybody !
LAST NIGHT BUT THREE.
LAST NIGHT BUT THREE.
Grand National Liverpool Steeplechase !
introducing the Old English May-pole Dance, as
it was danced 100 years ago.
Prices —35., 2s. and Is.
Afternoon Performances WEDNESDAYS
and SATURDAYS at 3 o’clock. All Children
admitted for 6d. Entrance to Chairs and Stalls
in Hay-street, and to Pit in Pitt-street.
ALEXANDER, Business Manager
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thuesday and Satubday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events :
July 7. —Grand Bicycle Match, Clarke v. Lebeau
for £5O a side.
August 4.—The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
G-
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
GRAND OPENING for the SEASON,
THURSDAY, JUNE 21.
THIS IMMENSE SKATING RINK
will POSITIVELY OPEN for the SEASON on
THURSDAY, JUNE 21.
GRAND SKATING PROGRAMME.
GRAND BICYCLE and PROMENADE and
DRILL, conducted and performed by all the
principal Cycling Clubs of Sydney, who have
ING RINK. ,
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE:
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager,
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
n ~ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE. —The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
4LBURY ANNUAL RACES.
MARES’ PRODUCE STAKES, 1889,
of 100 SOVS.,
with a sweepstakes of 5 sovs.
NOMINATIONS,
with 1 sov. each, giving description and pedigree
(of now yearlings), to be lodged with the Hon.
Secretary on or before the
2nd DAY OF JULY, 1888.
Sweep, 5 sovs. for starters, with 3 sovs. entrance,
to be with the undersigned on the night of
general entry. Ten per cent, of the gross amount
to go to second horse ; the third horse to save his
stake. Distance, 6 furlongs.
Weights : Colts, Bst. 101 b. ; fillies and
geldings, Bst. 71b.
Day of Nomination —JULY 2nd, 1888.
CON TEN BRINK,
Hon. Secretary Albnry Racing Club.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TECH BRIGHTON OB' N.S.W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eto., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country i
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
“THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
TT’ictoxia,.
Thb CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, la
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electrio Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages loed.
Gku. E. Scaring % Go.,
PROPRIETORS,
Latb of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
The PALACK HOTEL, ECHUOA, 1b the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Riverina Dletrlot. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartmentß. Private and Public Baths.
Aloock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. E. 1.
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements.
N E
RVOU S D E
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
B I L I T Y.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cure for Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
\ --.^T
* y-:
SUr* S.'jigS*“
p'^>v-'T- --,. i ■■■ '"-t:?*'
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE,
Trade Mark—' 1 The Greenwich Observatory
Specially prepared from Ripe Fbuit, and is the best of
all Feuit Salines.
SEALTH-GITO, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING,
A Preventive of Feveb, Livek Complaints, Headache,
Heabtbuen, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Ferdriau «§fc 00.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
:o :
Rubber Valves, Washers, Goskets, &c., &c. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAYBE
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
KIT.T.TARB OTSHIONS, &0., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
<Dld Tables re-fitted by our own men.
SLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS & BOW£i:
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, Sohojquare,


Business Announcements.
TBLEI ONLY
NOTH llRintlT
Sired Supply Association!
( “~~ ~ '
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
V J
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
cithers.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. Gd. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355.
E ~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
o
. The finest show of ACCORDEOW S to be seen
m the colonies from 10s. Gd. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. 6d.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 355. Od.
. 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/", 15/-, up to £7 10s
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for ,£2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Bill Till
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
■ Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is.3d. each.
* Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cells, Viola Double Gass, Hart,
Zither, k, k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 „ ~ »» £4 10/-. .
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O, Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SINIONSEN, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY
Owing to mention of new explosives there
has been a fall in dynamite. A fall in dynamite
portends a rise in masonry.
The Melbourne Bar say that the pushing
of Sir Henry Wrenfordsley into a temporary
judgeship is one of the Governor’s little jobs.
Mr. J. M. Curtis, solicitor, acting on
behalf of Miss Ellen Stuart, defendant in the
recent celebrated Castlereagh-street-alleged “dis-
orderly-house ” case, has issued two writs against
a prominent member of the Social Purity Society
in connection with recent legal proceedings.
Messrs. Salomons, Q.C., and Wise have been re-
tained for the plaintiff.
In Melbourne City Court last week, “a
smart-looking, well-dressed girl,” who admitted
that she was not yet 20 years of age, was charged
with vagrancy. Mr. Call, P.M., asked her how
she got her living. “He keeps me,” she replied,
pointing to a Chinaman in court with a face like
the seven deadly sins. Another “ young lady ”
named Eva Hogg was brought up on a similar
charge at the same time. She also had been
found in a Chinese den. She was not more than
18 years of age, and she had lived down to her
name already. This is one hideous aspect of the
Chinese question.
A CROSS BABY.
Nothin a; is so conducive to a man’s remaining a bachelor
as stopping for one night at the house of a married friend,
and being kept awake for five or six hours by the crying
of a cross baby. All cross and crying babies need only
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters to make them Well and
smiling. Young man, remember this.—“ Traveller.”
Fever in New South Wales is far less frequent among
the Colonists and Chinese than formerly. This is owing
to the discovery by them of the curative properties of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne. This valuable medicine
checks the progress and rapidly cures all forms of Fevers
and Ague, so prevalent at certain seasons of the year in
many parts of New South Wales. By the older Colonists it
is regarded as a household remedy, and employers of
large bodies of workmen always keep a good stock of
Freeman’s Chlorodyne on their estates.—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
RowLANDS’KALYDOßremovesfreckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
A Man Reported Missing
Is worse than dead to his friends and relatives,
but if a man keeps well by using mi. bell’s (Kid-
ney and liverjiHTTERS he will always be his own
inaster, ahd never be missing. A missing man
nine times out of ten wanders away when out of
liis mind, and nothing affects the brain more
quickly than kidney, liver and urinary troubles.
E
B ■
&
o
$
O'
sJ?
<3
<e>
*
rA
2$
<h
&
V.
o
V
&
9
V
£
O
£
- k x
V
s>
V
jr
<F
O
y
9
9
9
x>
9
O
c>
9
V*
o
<c N
v
<b
v
Y
<C
9
X s
O
390 a GEORGE S T
, Sr„
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
A nigger was arrested in South Melbourne
the other day, for forging a cheque. He was
found up a chimney, and the constable had to
haul him down by the legs. You couldn’t tell
that he —the nigger—had been up the chimney.
How is it that niggers have never taken to chim-
ney-sweeping ? It is an elevating profession, and
they have fine natural advantages for it. But, on
the other hand, why don’t burnt-cork minstrels
do the same thing in the daytime ? It would save
them a lot of time and trouble and soap, as they
would not need to wash from one year’s end to the
other. And what a happy life that would be !
At the Carlton (Melbourne) Court, a while
since, a young man was charged with housebreak-
ing:. When arrested he was in a dying condition.
“ Perhaps,” said the sardonic police inspector, “a
fur ther remand of two or three weeks would give
him a chance of going to one place or the other.”
There is a fine “to Hell or Connaught—to
Gehenna or Gaol ” ring about this which pleases
us mightily. But there are few people like your
minions of the law, from ermined Judge to com-
mon “copper,” for rich, fruity humour—when
they are on their own kitchen-middens, and the
other party can be imprisoned for contempt of
court, or destroying a policeman’s uniform, if he
replies.
ltliciimaf l*m and IM-opsy
Have been considered as incurable, but Dr. bell’s
(Kidney and Liver) bitters was never known to
fail in giving immediate relief and permanent cure
of both these maladies.
The great value of Scott's Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver
Oil with Hypophosi’Uitks in Wasting Diseases is shown
by the accompanying statement from D. C. Freeman,
Sydney, Australia: “ Having been a great sufferer from
pulmonary attacks, and gradually wasting away for the past
two years, it affords me great pleasure to testify that the
above medii ine has given me great relief, and cheerfully
recommend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself.
In addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take.”
Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. (id.
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hockings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all inseots.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
FEES OF DOCTORS.
The fee of doctors is an item that very many persons
are interested in just at present. We believe the schedule
tor visits is 13.00, which would tax a man confined to his
bed for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over $l,OOO a
year for medical attendance alone ! And one single bottle
of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters taken in time would
save the $l,OOO and all the year’s sickness.— •* Post.”
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGH*
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 Via,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Blr EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per cent.
For 1 year .. 6 per cent.
For 3 months.. 3 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Offices-10, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
L'fiA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
<>
CtrTE
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYINO OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS,
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
The Best Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Ineluding Maohlnerv. Imnorted
Leathers, So.; and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS «IOSS, BATIK POlian. vrm a
* Tonnorn' Tool* »n<l Materials Indent. *r*i>nlwl «i> F<iTnnr«l>l. T*-rin».
Business Announcements.
$
Dandelion Ditto.
Wo recommend these BITTERS to be taken twfl
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Vit ith thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have bo unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
Row's Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of Appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane's Win©,
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonio. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row s
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row's Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its ictoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
TRY THEM,
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW'S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
18. 48. 47 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.


PSALMS.
(REVISED).
TTEAR this, all ye people, and giye ear all ye
J--*- invalids of the world, bell’s bitters will
make you well and to rejoice. v
2. It shall cure all the people and put sickness
and suffering under foot.
3. Be thou not afraid when your family is
tick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell’s bitters will cure you.
4 Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of be l’s bitters for bilious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and I shall
have robust and blooming health.
6. Add disease upon disease and let the worst
come, I am safe if I use bell’s bitters.
7. Eor all my life have I been plagued with
sickness and sores, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell’s bitters.
8. He that keepeth his bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
9. Though thou hast sores, pimples, freckles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blood poisoning, yet bell's
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman is there, feeble and sick from
female complaints, who desireth not health and
useth bell’s bitters and is made well.
11. Let not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver complaints.
12. Keep the tongue from being furred, thy
blood pure, and thy stomach from indigestion by
using pell’s bitters.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Gc., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES & QUEENSLAND.
Thousands Hastened to their Graves.
By replying on testimonials written in vivid
glowing language of some miraculous cures made
by some largely puffed doctor or patent medicine
has hastened thousands to their graves j the
readers having almost insane faith that the same
miracle will be performed on them, that these
testimonials mention, while the so called medicine
is all the time hastening them to their graves.
Although we have
Thousands upon Thousands !! !
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures,
voluntarily sent us, we do not publish them, as
they do not make the cure. It is our medicine,
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, that makes
the cures. It has never failed and never can.
We will give reference to any one for any disease
similar to their own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbor, as there is not a neighborhood in the
known world but can show its cures by Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.
A losing Joke.
“ A prominent physician of Pittsburg said to a
lady patient who was complaining of her continued
ill-health, and of his inability to cure her, jokingly
said : ‘ Try Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters ! ’
The lady took it in earnest and used the bitters,
from which she obtained permanent health. She
now laughed at the doctor for his joke, but he is
not so well pleased with it, as it cost him a good
patient.”
Fees of Doctors.
The fee of doctors at $3.00 a visit would tax a
man for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over
$1 000 a year for medical attendance alone. And
one single bottle of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters taken in time would save the $l,OOO and
all the year’s sickness.
Given up by the Doctors.
“Is it possible that Mr. Godfrey is up and at
work, and cured by so simple a remedy ? ”
“ I assure you it is true that he is entirely cured,
and with nothing but Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters, and-only ten days ago his doctors gave
him up and said he must die, from Kidney and
Liver trouble! ”
None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Bewake of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.
THE LATEST FASHIONABLE AMUSEMENT
•PHOTOG-SAP S"2" •-«
We recommend those desirous of obtaining lasting records of their Yachting Cruises, Boating Excur-
sions, Cricket, 1 ootball and Lawn Tennis Matches, and other gatherings, to provide themselves
with one of our outfits, which will enable them to surround themselves with views of scenes and
places in which some of the most delightful hours of their lives have been spent.
1 • ,
pm, k
t
. .
m
// '
m
ft.
a
w
m
f. 7
<wy
A
. v r^
_a>.
LADIES will find that, by learning how to photograph, they have obtained a most interesting and
engrossing amusement for their leisure hours.
By the DRY PLATE process, stained fingers and other unpleasantness is done away with, and a
child can carry the whole apparatus, and it is no longer necessary to take Dark Tents or Chemicals
away from home. Our books of instruction enable even the most inexperienced to produce
creditable pictures. £T FREE LISTS AND PARTICULARS POST FREE.
<3& CO.
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he under fc kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a oertain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC >n»
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spbkr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Offioe hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg feo notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIBAEETTES, also FINEST BSAHOS of Cl^S,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices l
MV Note this Pbioe !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette— the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand —in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH !
MV By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
h mim street, mm
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD. GOD. GOD.
THIS, FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain! its Prestige and stands pre-eminent amon
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The nnders'gned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons in Rating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLABBNOE-STBEET.
GBD. GB-88.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
Prom the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2a. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask (or it and take no substitute.
It Is invaluable cure. See testimonials
MONK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhraa Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemlsiß.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole Agents •
Mathey, Nathan & Co,,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY |
AND
44 Tjltti» Cotxinb Sthkkt East, Msetboubn*.
To Confucius,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thou, too, great Prince of Thought, whose words
have come
Along long centuries of babbling noise,
And wake the brain to-day to life as fresh
As when thy lips were warm with blood, canst see
That not in goodness only, not in sons
Whose heads bend low before parental eyes,
Whose hands delve deep to meet parental needs,
And not in daughters to whose trust and truth
The fair skies witness, is there solid hope
That any people will attain the goal
The seer and sage have longed to bring to all.
Thy lessons found the willing open ears
Of thy wide Empire, and the golden words
Were seized on by the souls of old and young,
And by them lives were fashioned, and the minds
Of the great masses' were withdrawn from sight
And sound of angry warfare over things
That spring from earthly hungers and will die
When earth is quitted, higher than the stars,
Above all radiance of the day and night,
They saw a place of plains where all was peace,
Where winds ne’er stormed, nor rams beat down,
nor fire, . , 1 , , ~
Or ice, or greed, at any time brought deatn.
Upon these plains the masses fixed their eyes,
And thou didst lead them while the centuries ran.
But 10, Confucius, those who gave their souls
Into thy hands were, while they looked on high,
Robbed of the earth about them. Yf ar by year
The land was gathered up and chained by those
Whose eyes received no visions from thy words,
Or who, if seeing, saw besides that good
Below is good as true as good above.
The fault of all thy teaching, and of all
The teaching that lifts eyes on high, is that
In showing man the glory of the life
That lasts for aye, the glory of his life,
That lasts a day, a year, a hundred years,
Is left unguarded ; and a robber throng
Swoop down, and some go back and climb t
. thrones,
And some go back and climb up altar-steps,
And some go back and map out large estates ,
And bound by links of gold they stand as one
Against the masses from whose backs they tore
The raiment till their wardrobes were chocked up.
And from whose mouths they snatched the load
Their dogs and they alike were sleek and fat.
The glory of the life that lasts a day
Is part and parcel of the endless life,
And he is seer of seers whose words will rm o
This truth from all the bells of human thought,
That he who lets the present glory slip
Will feel astray upon the place of plains.
And what is glory here but strong and brave
And constant battle against those whose greed
Would make the many bare to load the few
With rich attire, would make the many starve
To feast the few with sumptuous repasts ;
Would fill the streets with tears that in their
homes ,
The luxuries of sight and sound might be.
Would fill the streets with blood, would fill the
ways , . .'-vo
With death to gorge the passions of their lives .
O, Seer Confucius, why didst thou not-teach
Thy teeming race this duty at their hand .
They then, for they were docile to thy words,
Might have turned round and slain the gang that
prßsssd
Upon them, grinding them to dust, and held
A fair share of their land whereon to live.
Wherefrom to live, and rear a robust brood
That still in turn a robust brood would plant
Upon the fruitful soil; and so, to-day.
Not as a realm of swarming paupers, thm,
• And weak, and corpselike, would thy land be
known, ,
With a high Emperor enthroned as Cod,
And round the throne the brazen cheats and
frauds _ . .
Of superstition, all with minions girt, ,
And all with hands outstretched' and mouths
To prey and batten on the helpless horde !
O, Seer Confucius, thou didst see but half
The answer to the riddle of mail’s life;
Eor in proportion as the masses sink,
The upward way unto the place of plains
Grows daily steeper, and at last is lost.
And back the nation rolls, and falling down,
Horde upon horde, the knife and poison-cup,
And lie and blasphemy and nameless vice
Arise, and, like a maelstrom, round and round
The swelt’ring mass of hideous foul disease
Swirls till the 00x9 and slime and spume •
Shut out the sun; and then within the night
Wild wills explode and Murder’s hands grow red.
See now what all thy teaching has produced !
Thy sons and daughters we cast from oiTr land.
Nor we alone. They have been beaten down,
They have been trodden on through all the years
They gave their hearts to thee; and now the
grace
Of life has left them, and, as lepers, they
Must shiver back and swarm among the slime
Of centuries of meek obedience to
The gangs of tyrants whom thou shouldst nave
taught '
Thy people, as the first step on the road
That rising leads unto the place of plains,
To hurl headlong from the Nation’s brow !
Sydney.
E. LOWE.
Affairs are getting on pleasantly and com-
fortably in Ireland. . Mr. Gilhooley, M.P., has
been sentenced to 14 days’ imprisonment for being
struck by a constable, and when he comes out he
will probably be sued for the rent of the gaol.
Gilhooley was wanted by the authorities for
another offence—as far as we can remember there
was a scrimmage somewhere and a policeman fell
over him, and he was summoned for being in the
way—and on the day of his trial he appeared at
the door of the court in a waggonette. According
to the evidence of ten spectators, the inspector
of police abused him for arriving m such a
vehicle, and declared the waggonette to be
intended as a means of provoking a breach of the
peace; and then he rushed Gilhooley and ordered
him to get out of that. When the two men
were hauled apart, the Irish member of Parlia-
ment got 14 days for being found in a state of
concussion with an officer, and about the same
time Mr. Ryan, of Lisycasey, received a similar
sentence for making a curious sound in his inside
as a policeman passed him. He said he was only
clearing his throat, but the officer alleged that he
had groaned at him, and the authorities reckoned
that two weeks’ confinement would teach Mr.
Ryan to abstain froiri peculiar noises when a con-
stable was about. Ireland is a bad place now for
any man who desires to howl or blow his nose
within ten miles of a policeman, and any Irishman
with a chronic cough had better take to the woods.
M.L.C.—Mummy of the Legislative Coffin.
The “ powerful syndicate” for establishing
a new evening paper in Melbourne is, alas ! no
more. It suddenly expired after issuing a pros-
pectus.
What a fall is here ! For the last few
years Mr. Plantagenet, butcher, has hung out in the
suburb of Lambeth (London), and the royal blcod
of England has toiled at chopping up meat. Mr.
Plantagenet is the lineal descendant of Edward
111., and slaughters pigs where his mighty ances-
tor used to slaughter human beings. His pro-
genitor howled at Crecy, and his progenitor's
fallen son screams out, “ ’Arf pound o’ steak,
sevengpence !” When did the pale earth ever
witness such a collapse before ?
A Burmese cablegram wails :—“ Mr.
Powell, who was engaged exploring and surveying
recently-acquired territory,'was attacked by a
band of Dacoits and most brutally murdered. ’’
What a scream over the loss of one Englishman
who had no business to be there ! And only ihe
other day, when half a hundred native patriots
were “ most brutally murdered” while defending
the land of their fathers from spoliation, the same
cable fraud remarked cheerfully that “the rebels
were defeated with the loss of 50 men.”
According to a long-drawn-out cable-yarn
in the Eve nix.* News, a big political crisis is loom-
ing in England, and in the hour of need “Mr.
Christopher Bennett” has been invited to stand
for some constituency or other which has become
vacant by the death of a Tory who stood Oft. 3in.
in his stockings. “ Mr. Christopher Bennett ”
comes under the same headinz as the crisis, from
Wnicli we presume that he is some kind of a public
convulsion. He declined to stand, by the way,
and poor old Gladstone no doubt feels much
better now.
A City bank. Enter two fashionably-
dressed ladies, one of whom presents her husband’s
cheque at a counter, and on being asked, “ How
will you take it?” without replying to the cashier,
turns joyfully to her companion and remarks —
“My gracious, Nell, it’s right !”
“Carmen Sylva,” Queen of Roumania, who
has just received such signal honour at the hands
of the French Academy, records it as he'r impres-
sion “that, if Gutenberg could have foreseen
journalism, he would have broken up his presses ”
But what if Gutenburg had foreseen dress-im-
provers !
A certain southern “ Exchange Company,
Limited,” is the latest boon offered to investors.
The promoters piopose to buy 50,000 shares at
10s., and the public are requested to buy another
50,000 at 30s. Supposing this issue were applied
for twice over the promoters might satisfy every-
body and net £50,000 at one fell swoop. It’s better
than running a consultation.
Mr. Beckett, of Cardiff, (Eng.) now beams
in the evergreen land, and the way he got there is
a solemn lesson to people who bet on anything
smaller than a dead certainty. There was a lady in
Cardiff a few weeks ago, who had prematurely cut
off a fellow creature in the full bloom of existence,
and public opinion was divided as to whether she
would be hanged or not. There was a good deal
of betting on the event, and Mr. Beckett staked
every stick he possessed on the gallows. If the
lady had been duly suspended he would have been
in a position to spend the rest of his days in an
atmosphere of plush and costly victuals, and could
have rolled in a plated chariot attended by a dog
with false teeth set in gold ; but as it happened,
the sentence was commuted, and the speculative
citizen, finding himself sold by an unhanged
female and left in the lurch by a once-reliable but
now degenerate institution, cut his throat, and
went to that land where there is no variableness
and where ladies are not let out on bail.


CORRESPON PENCE
“L. Jackson ” : We never allow a correspon-
dent who writes complaining of something The Bi lleux
has said, to state that his attention " has been directed
to such and such an article. The persons who never see a
newspaper paragraph on their own account but always
“ have their attention directed ” are usually either pomp-
ous snobs or gilded creatures who can neither read nor
write. We always take care that when epistles from such
people appear in our paper they commence: —“Sir,
Bast week I read in Tiie Bulletin,” &c., &c., which is
quite true, and has the merit of taking the starch out of
them “Esmond”: Parkes never appears to such ad-
vantage as when he is either bullying something very
small or licking the boots of something very large. And
Salomons is never in such form as when he “ stands up in
his place ” in the N.S.W. Legislative Council and makes
what everybody may be quite certain next day’s S.M.
Herald and Argus will call “a few graceful and feeling
remarks.” We love to hear Salomons, Q.C., make “ feel-
ing remarks.” “E.E.”: The dodge in N.S.W. politics
is for the Opposition to turn the Ministry out of power on
the ground that the latter have erected a big deficit.
Then when the Opposition accede to office they make the
shortage bigger still, and when challenged with the fact
they plead that the bulk of it belongs to the late Ministry,
and will have to be met by means of a loan in Hingland ;
as to the deficit which they themselves have constructed,
they plead, as did the poor girl who was confronted v r ith
her baby: “ It's only a little one.” That’s Parkes
and Cocky Burns, anyhow “A.J.L.”: Next week....
“ Arthur Sampson ” : (1.) Long ago. (2.) John Stuart
Mill has declared that all restrictions on trade, or on pro-
duction for purposes of trade, are restraints, and, there-
fore, are evils. For a Freetrader to impose restrictions
on Chinese immigration is, therefore, contrary to his
creed and dead against the cheap-market theory. Only
for the cast iron cheek of the Australian Freetrade party
these facts would place them in a very awkward dilemma.
....“ S.E.” :We don’t object to teetotalism. We only
object to the people who use as their political stock-in-
trade the cerebral weakness which prevents them from
drinking a glass of wine “W. Matson”: Under the
present N.S.W. system of non payment of members many
of the members naturally have to pay themselves. The
lawyers, whose business prospers best in the metropolis,
and who are all Conservatives, can do very well without
payment, but how can a poor and really representative
free-selectors’ member get along if unremunerated'?
When you say that the “ truly patriotic Premier, to his
everlasting honour, votes against the proposal 1 ’ you forget
that Parkes has lived on politics for many a year past, and
that during that time he has been in bankruptcy more
than once, to the great disadvantage of several people
“ Anti-Mongolian ” : Glad to hear from y0u....“ J. N.
Fleury”: Held for consideration “LL.”: You are a
robust dude “ J.S.N.” (Brisbane): A pun like that is a
disgrace to the colony and an outrage on the moral sense
of the community... .“B.B.” (Wilcannia): Thanks for
Chinese yarn....“ W.H.”: You tell us that a N.S.W.
Civil servant who owns property on the Blue Mountains
has just engaged two Chinamen to work for him, al-
though white men willing to work for almost Chinamen’s
wages pass his place weekly. Well, he’s a good Freetrader,
that’s a11..H.G.” (Bal.): Hardly worth criticising.
The lady means well, but it is a shame for the papers to
tell her she is a poetess... .“C.L.” (G.P.0., Melb.): You
are right. Many thanks.... “ Subscriber ” : You say you
“have never seen a kangaroo with its tail between its
legs.” We have: such is, and will be, the chronic
attitude of the kangaroo’s tail until Australia gets rid
of the British lion and all the works thereof....
“S.S.”: Thanks. Your idol, Schey, M.P., is a hopeless
trimmer. He obtained his seat in Parliament by a bare-
faced squirm, and he hasn’t even now the courage to say
whether he is a Freetrader or a Protectionist. However,
nobody paitieularly cares what such politicians as Schey
may call themselves “ J.G.P.” : Thanks. Some of the
advts. are genuine enough, we happen to know. Others
are b0gu5....“W.8.” (B.): We cannot very well allow
you to say in the paper that any official is “a terriable
loafer,” nor can we back you up when you want to
“knock the stuffing” out of the Government servant
who wishes you to add to his surname the prefix of
“Mister.”....“R. M‘D.”: It isn’t poetry; it isn’t even
verse.... “ Splcdger ” : Excellent.... “ S.S.”: When that
politician writes a “minnit” he generally commences by
stating that “he takes up his pen,” and proceeds hur-
riedly°to observe that “ this comes hopping,” also, that it
leaves him well, as he also trusts that it finds the other
man the same, and consequently no more at present from
yours trooly. This style of correspondence used to pro-
duce a favourable effect in the back regions, and was
much admired.... “ A Marshall ”: It ran thus
“ Hang the thief on the cross, was the ancient decree ;
But the cross on the thief now suspended we see.”
The other was
“ In the serenely sinful days of old
Christ spoke with Jewish doctors, we are told ;
But now on earth were He once more enticed,
Our Christian doctors.would not speak to Christ.”
..“S.S.J.": The Chinese merchant is a gentleman in
manner, anyhow, and his word is worth, on the average,
a good deal more than that of a member of Parliament....
“ C.H E.” (Melb.): Thanks. Please write again... “A.
Breto”: Handed to artist for consideration....“O.R.”
(Brisbane): All that you write has already been pointed,
ouiTin Tiie Bulletin “G. Akehurst”: fYou “don’t
like the idea, and think it inexcusably coarse.” But its
no argument against anything merely to urge that “its
coarse ” .“ Le Juste Milieu ” : Quite right. Further
imprisonment may utterly wreok Holt’s health, but, any-
how Holt had a fair and merciful trial, and so far he may
be regarded as to a not inconsiderable extent the archi-
tect of his own fate. But have you ever read the letter
written to Governor Carington by Mr. 0 Mara, bamster-
at-law concerning the trial accorded to the Mount Rennie
prisoners ’ When you have read it, write again and tel
us whether you adhere to your opinion, and if so your
reasons for so doing.... Thomas T. (Cioydon, Rd.) Not
up to the mark... “G. Bentley ” (Goulburn): Will bear your
request in mind “ Anti fossil’ : Thanks.... S.J.
You write a long letter to say that Commissioner Good-
chan has had a fat billet with nothing to do. On the con-
trary, he has worked like a horse for many > ears, ai d
though he has had a comparatively high salary it was by
no means equal to what he could readily have got m
commerce. As a matter of fact, we heard long ago, on
o-ood authority, that he had refused £l5OO a year to leave
the Service and manage a carrying-firm.
A Melbourne paper says that a man was
run over and killed by a tart. Some subscribers
think it was a misprint for cart, but they have no
experience of the heaviness of Melbourne pastry.
The Referee
The Australian Eleven made the best win
of their tour on Saturday last, when they de-
feated Marylebone, which might be looked upon
as a representative English eleven. With three
wickets to fall and only 24 runs to get affairs
looked rosy for the Britishers on Saturday morn-
ing when play was resumed, but they only stayed
at the wickets long enough to run up nine runs,
the Australians thus winning a most exciting
match by 14 runs. The scores were—Australians,
130 and 9G; and Englishmen, 102 and 110.
Turner took six wickets in the home team’s second
innings for 50 runs.
* * *
Apropos of the Australians’ narrow victory
over Marylebone, few people realise what an
extensive association the Marylebone Cricket Club
is. During the cricket season, from May to
October, the committee elect 12 candidates each
week, six cricketers and six non-cricketers. Yet
a well-known member has computed that in the
A DAY OF RECKONING.
M.P. (after the N.S.W. Payment of Members’ Bill becomes law): “I HAVE COME TO
DRAW MY MONTH'S SCREW.”
GOVT. CASHIER: “HUM SEEMS TO ME YOU HAVE OVER DRAWN TI
PRETTY EXTENSIVELY ALREADY-THAT IS TO SAY, THE BARMAN
HAS. HERE IS YOUR REERESHMENT-ROOM ACCOUNT. YOU ARE
OVER DRUNK £120.”
ordinary way, without selection, it would take a
candidate entered in the books now, 4G years
before he came up for election. No wonder people
put down their children as candidates, sometimes
even before they are christened !
* # *
Teemer and Hamm, Yankee scullers, upon
hearing of Hanlan’s defeat, said they would come
to Australia if they had to work their passage:.
Teemer’s reputation warrants his coming, ;but not
so Hamm’s.
* * *
The Sydney University Club promises to
repeat their success of last season. On Saturday
they beat the Wallaroos by 17 points to nil.
* * *
Our young friend, Benzon, the “Jubilee
Plunger,” made £35,000 over Minting’s win of the
Jubilee Stakes, but this is only a drop in the ocean,
and the .T.P.’s horses are to be—or by this time
have been —sold. ~
• * *
Annie Burneck, the Chicago female prize
pugilist, is endeavouring to arrange a match.
Quite a number of interesting single women are at
the same game in these colonies. This is Leap
year.
Rev. P. E. Raynor, of Hobart, is said to
be a great wheelman, and capable of doing 100
miles a day on a bike. His brethren of the cloth
may not be smart wheelmen, but they are good
spokesmen.
• * *
Spofforth visited England five times with
Australian Elevens, bowled 29,591 balls and took
1241 wickets.
• * *
Sandall, the alleged amateur champion of
New Zealand, has set himself a tough job in facing
the Australian amateur champion this week. The
writer would take a shade of odds that Sandall
from first to last does not strike the Sydney man
a blow worthy the name.
* * *
The London Referee gives Kemp small
credit for his victory over Hanlan, and says many
nasty things about the Canadian which it would
be hardly worth our while to repeat.
» • •
Burke and Slavin are both stated to be in
heavy training for their eight rounds, to come off
at Melbourne on 9th July.
* * *
Mr. W. G. Grace is credited with having
taken 15 wickets for 55 runs when playing against
twenty-four of the Bristol clubs last week. Be it
understood, however, that it was not the champion
who did this, but his son of some thirteen summers.
Turner has been trundling better since we
last gave the Australian bowlers’ averages, he
having drawn up considerably to Ferris. Ferris’
score now stands 89 wickets for 1190 runs, giving
an average of 131-3, as against Turner’s 99
wickets for 1377, an average of 14 2-3 runs per
wicket. Percy M‘Donnell heads the list of bats-
men with the fine average of 38 runs an innings.
• * *
We were not far wrong in predicting that
the Australian Eleven would show to most advant-
age when the scoring was small on both sides.
Last week’s M.C.C. team was the strongest that
has knocked under to our boys so far, yet the con-
querors were disposed of for 9G runs only in their
second innings. Should either of the All-England
matches be played on a bad wicket it will not be
11 to 10 on the Britishers, even though they win
the toss. Few people seem to remember that
when the Australians won their solitary “repre-
sentative” victory (though they have twice had
the best of drawn games) they themselves scored
less than 40 at their first attempt.
The English footballers are developing far
more aptitude for the Victorian game than was
anticipated after the strong Carlton team had
made such a “holy show ”of them. At present
the locals are rolling up in their tens of thousands
to witness the visitors’ discomfiture, even-as they
give the cold shoulder to international cricket for
an equally patriotic reason. But, given more prac-
tice and less cakes and ale, it may yet be-possible
for the burly Britons to beat a premier Victorian
team at their own game. And if such an
event did come to pass it would bring lamentation
and woe to an army of critics who honestly be-
lieve that their particular kind of foothill sur-
passed all outside understanding. The Carlton
captain, for example, expressed a scientific opinion
that the Englishmen couldn’t play “ our game
properly if they practised for 20 years. Yet those
same novices defeated Bendigo in their very next
match. If they are intelligent young men, and
avoid banquets, they will certainly knock the
stuffing out of many foolish notions peculiar to
Victorian footballers.
According to Adelaide Figaro, a publican
was unearthed last week in the City of the Saints
who didn’t know there was such a paper as Ihe
Bulletin. The police have been instructed to
oppose the renewal of that man s licence.
Apropos of the discussion re the killing of
murderers by electricity, the Lancet points out
that the symptoms which follow death by light-
ning or electricity are cataleptic, and days after
apparent death- animation may return. the
medical journal mentions a case of a man struck
by lightning, who was laid out for burial, having
the luxury of hearing his own passing bell, and
Vicing 1 in fchf* nick of time.
Sunday Godliness.
A ' Sydney man put an advertisement in the
local Sunday Times, but when the bill was
rendered he declined to pay, on two grounds—
firstly, that the Times people had not strictly
carried out their contract as to the method of in-
sertion ; secondly, that as the Times was printed
and published on Sunday, its owners were break-
ing some ancient English Sabbath-jaw or other,
and therefore could not legally claim payment fcr
any work which they had done. Whether the
first plea was good or not, we neither know
nor care—anyhow it was a mere matter c f
evidence ; but we have no hesitation in
characterising the second plea as one of the
meanest ever set up in a /;ourt of justice.
If the defendant had a good bona-fide de-
fence on the first plea he had every moral and
legal right to set it up ; but he had not, we hold,
either a moral or a legal right to set up the
second plea, inasmuch as if the paper was gocd
enough for him to give an advertisement to and
inferentially to make profit out of, he was not
entitled to take advantage of his own wrong—fcr
the law holds that he was acting wrongly in
hiring people to work for him cm the Sabbath. He
admittedly promised to pay, and should have
been made to pay, provided he failed to prove
that the newspaper-man had not done the work
contracted for in the manner promised. This
is not the sort of justice which will be meted
out to citizens in Australian courts of law
when the Australian National party shall
have wiped from the statute-book the old-
world enactments which disgrace our code.
But we go even further. We contend that the
lawyer’s'argument whi<ih cheated the printer in
this case was based on a falsehood, inasmuch as,
although the Sunday Times is printed and sold on
Sunday, there'is not half so much work done for
it on Sunday as is done on the same day for Mon-
day’s issue of the S. M. Herald or of the Argus, or
any other “ respectable ” paper. The big daily
papers are written on Sunday, and set-up on
Sunday, and are morally just as great an
outrage on the Sabbath law as if they were called
the Sunday Herald and the Sunday Argus
respectively. If, as would appear from- the re-
ports, Editor Ellis lost his case solely because of
the second plea, then he has been “slipped up”
merely because the word “Sunday” appears ou
the title of his paper. The Judge sympathised
with him ; so does every square man.
The Weekly Paper The Best Medium.
The Honourable H. H. Warner, senior member of
H. H. Warner & Co., who are known the world
over on account of their celebrated Safe remedies,
and who spend annually in advertising a sum
that would be a large fortune to any man, recently
said, in an interview with a New York Tribune
reporter, that he regarded the weekly paper as the
surest to repay judicious expenditure of all classes
of newspaper publications. “ I would rather have
a hundred thousand weekly circulation,” said he,
“ than two hundred and fifty thousand daily. The
readers of a daily paper rarely ever read it
through; it is simply glanced over, the salient
points of news are read, and the paper is then
thrown aside. But with the weekly the case is
different. In the country, where a family takes
only one or two weekly pipers, every word and
every line of it is read over and over again, and
in many instances the paper is afterwards lent to
neighbours. Advertising in such a medium is cer-
tain to be remunerative, the' advertisement is sure
of being read—which is the first consideration—
and if skilfully worded generally leads to the
purchase of any commodity advertised.”
Mr. Walker, Minister of Customs, has
thrown some official light on the Chinese Question
as it affects Victoria. In 1883 only 433 new Chows
came to till the Cabbage Carden. In 1886 the
distinguished visitors numbered 1108'; but in
1887 there was a rush of 2049. This abnormal in-
crease would seem to be due in some mysterious
way to the diplomatic enquiries of Bung Hi
and his brother commissioner from Pekin. After
those fat heathen had foxed around Sydney and
Melbourne, they wired home strange telegrams in
Chinese cipher to this effect: ‘"Ship lepers ad
lib.” However, as political difficulties are always
wiped out in blood at Pekin, we feel more of sor-
row than of anger for these commissioners. They
will probably die a lingering death.
We rarely “blow,” but we are going to
do it now. A large section of the Australian Press
seems to live on The Bu-lletin. The Bulletin
has put ideas into the heads of the dullards of the
“ Fourth Estate,” and is the only paper which is
thoroughly and properly loved ■m one side and
hated on the other. The Bulletin has suc-
ceeded in'partially teaching the daily Press how
to arrange and condense its matter, and the things
which The Bulletin began to write five years ago
the daily Press is beginning to write now. The
Bulletin is the paper which is detested by the
newspaper proprietors who are not writers, and
regarded with affection by the working journalists,
hundreds of whom always read it, and con-
tribute to it, and pay for it every week.
Few of our contemporaries, however, have the
honesty to acknowledge the source of their literary
inspirations, and those which steal hardest andac-
knowledge least invariably denounce The Bulletin
as a disloyal and accursed paper which should be
jumped upon by all good Conservatives. But
when our paragraphs have been annexed whole-
sale by English and American papers they are re-
produced in the Sydney Echo, and dished up
afresh in the Age, and the pious Melbourne D.T.
wallows in them, and they turn up feebly dis-
guised in the ponderous Sydney weeklies, and
the Melbourne Herald and the Leader chuckle
over them, and the Australasian gushes over
“an Et>glish exchange ” on the strength of them,
and they are religiously credited from time to
time by various papers, to Reynolds, or the Lon-
don Echo, or the Manchester Guardian,
or Tit Bits, or Modern Society, or the
New York Times, or some other second-
hand source. Even the Sydney Sunday News
this week reproduces from the Springfield (U.S.)
Republican a hunk of The Bulletin's Centen-
nial leader, which it now prints in long primer
but which it regarded as too disloyal and depraved
to steal until it had already been stolen by an
American print and purified by a sea-voyage, and
concludes with this pathetic note written in
thp Roman hand of John Haynes, Esq., C.M.G.
“ The above bit of fine-writing is from the pen probably
of some American colonel, who came over to Sydney as a
fo’castle stowaway, after murdering his mother, and
having been gaoled here for either arson or murder, is
dissatisfied with the place.”
We don’t wish to worry Haynes, but we would
point out that the article in question would have
seemed a good deal more previous if he had not
been too elevated to cadge it direct from our
columns, instead of waiting until it had travelled
twice across the Pacific.


Belle
Hotels.
Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Patllamsalj Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FAMILY HOTEL.
AOo °mmodation for ninety.
Walter meebß every Steamer.
t 8 and Vagrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
*ITZROY hotel,
T STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
'VjOUM Family Hotel.
fUtate s S ng6 and Shower Bath.
""■room, without extra charge.
«. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
Com-
OP ART HOTEL,
IlNSto, Ma oK A Y.
toetolio Accommodation lor
w travellers and Families.
8 -^TR-Sf T-CLASS CHEF.
EBTS Kvkry Steamer.
°rb of Travellers a Special Study,
sample rooms.
A- V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
HOTEL, SOULSUBN,N.S.W
htn nn ? accommodation for oommercia!
, rootoa others. Private sitting rooms,
0 ' j AMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
EAST-STREET, ROCK
cie MURPHY, Proprietor,
il “ j rdngs i—The “ Western Cham
110 to inv recommend the Rockhamptoi
western friends.”
Morgan hotel, Queensland
4nfc, 0y Sir s H n Buished patronage of His Es
k, tor 60 vi«eL UBgrave - K - C. M. G. Acoommc
a smI S ‘^H wo " storey buildings. ®Tor
VSdZ be obtained c
w alk ot ontain0 ntain of Sold, and within a fei
"tlhta °oachna C^ e com P a ny’s works. Passengc
fcletttn tft hWav cf r aily Irom Rockhampton an
V/ t,of the fiZ: tlons - w - MONCKTON, Prc
hi of Monckton and Co.
ACCOMMODATION,
table,
Terms Moderate.
'OTTf Co , rner of
iR and GEORGE STREETS,
. JOF Br isbane.
* BARRINGTON, Proprietor
y^bSlOR
. Hotel, charters tower;
fck . Ujfc tr.i
O, Building erected in aboi
5® r of Gill and Church Streets
J7* M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
a ° p »i Morgan
****«< National Hotel,
Ro t , 20 BKDrooms -
reajy¥® n beautifuily done up, and
v/ttgCfort, p r ° r the reception of visitors.
108 Modern ) iar locked with best brands
W aCe> ®®rs- Heiser, Proprietress.
"ifflr
'‘Nai
ot the oldest Family j
® a *hw» a the colony. Prl
n» a Vla room.
“Ration, Hot and Cold Bat
OOMPIGNK, Proprietrest
°ODg
„ HOTEL
Terminus, Spknobk-stri
au'^ y has n l ßln B the above hotel, whit
■lntern addlt ion of over 100 room
>■ ‘ y entii such as ligh
?' r oom a i. ed bedrooms, large publii
ir> th 8 ’ hot and cold baths, show*
andJi? Ben « er elevator, electr
ia A ail other hotel requisites, ni
too d f o rA Stralia ' Visitors can re
8 ®romv,M arly morning trains. Lebte
p iy attended to. Prices vei
beter woods,
Owner and Proprietor
Albury.
10 to 6 ~—
fp e having become Lessee of
W^ v eiw nr p w ?, ?sotel, begs bo inti-
-0i; ;, Ve H t Q | Public that every atten-
V ervp management bo ensure
k 6 * 8 Re ®t Accommodation pro-
‘kiS of p a -
‘^hl^epart 1118 f ° r Families
kl ttQ a nt will be under the
fcgjj- Solomons.
ds ’ Hob and Cold Baths,
t V VL elj brands. N.S.W. and Vlo-
porter d telegramB Promptly
Solomons. Proprietor.
Business Announcements,
E. L MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION A GENT,
Minins Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
MA«UMCtuR£Ri
t, IMPORTERS Or
pVfs|APSX
438 CEO ACE ST
3YDNEY 1
?/
ft*
Vi
a
or
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£ 0.
gTU DY
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frame# Ca
entered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liierpoo! and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match cos
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
JLEs §om Si
IMANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
'* PORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES;
And ab QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
RELIEF FROI COUGH IS TEN MINUTES.
— + —
3EE 213 C .sSk. 90* * £1
BALSA! OF
HOREHOUND.
Th* meet oertaln and tpeedjr remedy for Coughs, Colds.
Hoarieneu, and all Disorders of the Chest ana
Bungs. It ha. provad Itself the meet successful prepara-
tion ever offered. The «*le le Increasing daily.
IT HAS A MOST PLEASANT TASTE.
In the nursery it i. Invaluable, ae children are fond of
tt. Immediately It 1* taken Coughing ceases, rest"
leeeneee is gone, and Refreshing Sleep ensues.
No lady who has once tried It would ever afterward, to
without it. Prepared enly by
A. HA7BIAN & 00. (late of Neath),
15, Albemabl* St., London, England.
Pries Is. lid., Si. #d., di. 6d., & 111. per bottls.
If not tn ttoek your Ohmiit trill procure it:
ORIGINAL
Baking
P Oto
%
*
Si
AJJu **us?s°« Uf
OBTAIN £0 A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
Oft
HIGHEST DECREE OF ME HI I
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORLD
NONE OTHER BUT
'
VVAUC H S
f” l ; V t. 'K £ 'N U RNATI ON A L
PRIZEMEDAL
«AfIUfACTURFJ> BYjAttEsDIAKHOfi
Hamouk 4 f 4ro«ir
MtyAD tocwßWilaiiral-wi
Business Announcements.
M
0 H U M E N T
In Sranlte, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing*.
Design* and Estimates forwarded on request
J, CITMHINCiHAM,
MA*«AB*T-STR*I!T, Wynyard-squar*, Bydkby.
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH4
&
PATENT
PILLS.
&
*
y$
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams;
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills,' and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
lor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be'found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient Of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fprt to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bbbcuam’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are, on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to. each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches j
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, old nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills ct’looted on moat favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N, F. GIBLIh Acting Manager.
aV’ a
iM. ■
«*w.
CIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE 1
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY or other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &c.,
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Instltutc,”j
63, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address —
PROGRESSIVE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
63, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
tSF No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia, Box 263, G.P.O.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speoial Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
WE can recommend the Imperial Haib
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England^ 1
4n«l is now being introduced Into tha
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should got a,supply
09 every wise mother will certaiply.
use it.
©r. ridge's royal food
LONDON. ENGLAND.
F
“ESSSscWfOT
m. BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
NG HAM
M AS,
OCKHAM
&
I. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
*rT*» «•«»» Moustache and Whiskers.
OvtrfahtM.
.Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, (
\artd will do it on either bald ’
'head or bare face • Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to.
4 weeks and never fails* 20,000*
young men already wear full
iim
Copyright#tL
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkta. No injury, sadly applied, certain
in tiffed. Packets, It. 6dL each. 3 for 3». Qd., post paid, scni under
saver, free from observation » Address, Fraut BOnglM, Sole AgonS,
Box T 30 t O.FmO. p Sydney, W.JS.Wa
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpanlln, Oilskin Make!)
• 396 PITT STREET,
u
im
on Hire.
£
mama&mjgFi
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BODGUET
ESS. BODGDET I WOOD VIOLET
TREVOL I CHYFRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equal led for their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOILETTE OE LONDRES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors.
0/ all Sealers, and of the Manufacturers—
3. & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Hose” on“ Golden
Lyre.” .


ROYALjttWlf
mr/j
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure®
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
IMPOBTJtB 07
r WINBB, BPIRITB, BEERS, &O-, SoO,, 1
George and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old) ; W. Jameson’s, DunviUe’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
r The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. /SF AH brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
&T SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
nan-cuss unas’ ssmmn lira »i imion,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdeen & Sons).
Produce Stores - gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH B
JSTEIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, end London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
rsNi, vmh rzo/ '
For Artistic Posing «M
combining softness and brills
Photograph* oi
GHARLE-tfONT I
ROYAL ARCADE-
STAND
coleMmSe & sf
Eucalyptb w
Victory
A Pure Extract fronv the
Awarded GOLD cm»P etI K<W
beating Bosisto and al -i^ x hibition- ™
Ist Prize Great Centennial Lx
Can be used for Consumpti
shitis, Rheumatism, Neuralg - Q o ids, 5.
md Gravel Complaints, SjWg*
Gout, etc. Posted to any 110S DBA. -jpt
Manufactory: Coot ooß e
Sydney Depot:
Sold by all g *
- Q *•*
The scib n cj m.d-
By W. Knox PA ®f“^ en . SOOjSr
A Book for Young an f over
>ound in cloth, and conta as
lons. Price, post paid-,
dons. Price, post pa ir’ rln « from N
lample free. Those BU ®® llA^e nd
laustion and Diseases should %.
valuable work. Address < rj£ ea» d *
Post Office Chambers, corner *>
streets, Melbourne, Vi°‘ —"T
■ in every P»S Uy '
AB
OLLOWAY’S PILL 3 »ssf
There is not a country in me< iioineo n * fl o jd^ ( ,
eating virtues oi these gf*® - In »** 1#
ivery disease IF YOU SUB™,' j
actured only at 78 Nnw o**?3 D |, n the
shasers should look to the V>
1 the address is not 628 Oxio
Ch ~ E -z^-T 1 SATdB OP
STATIONERY, BOOKS, OHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 343 GEORGE
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, fcO.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing. Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting, of every description.
BOULTON’S ‘‘FLUSH,’
’VALVE,” and “ PAN ”f CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
•ole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PUCE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prior on Application,
ALFRED LAWRENCE^an* 1
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
81 pitTSTß®*®'
StdN**>
BARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Crating, Soda-water, Wine and
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vlgnerons for lees, Candle-m gook °, y
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting. Daß®<* n 1"
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakes’ Liquid A 1 bun-i , _ ar jjos
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawl g ao d 10® o int
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventitive of lustiness.
family use; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or win . j ofli £l°
Invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon In country district iv 3.010,
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extract, » a flop p
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, wing®
lllustrated Catalogue Post Free on jijNEß''
m Publishing Office of “ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, t ftee-
WINE AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW.” Specimen Copms
o- IE”. PICKLES cSz. SOWS, Ca.xrio.g'e
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA. _ ~flr
City Repository: - -5» 7 > 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Manufactory: - 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET,
MEL
fitzbo*
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY,
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE.
B 0 E Tgrff
NEW T ABLE.ArONTINE WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS -A POLICY UNDER THIS ! C L ||| SURVIVA ?
MIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an addition to the sum assured in the event of death within the TONTINL PERIOD
TION IN TONTINE SURPLUS. AST Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom-
I FA&PERRINS SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRI£
SA UCE which arc calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrini
have to. request that Purchasers see that the Label o*t every battle
hears their Signature thus~~
without which 7H> bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and Sou", and see Name on Winger, Label, Botde a
Stopper. Wholesale and fop Export by the Proprietors, Worcesterj C™** a
MacktveU, London, &c.,&*C. I and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
& Qua Oa«u> Cogue* £ CeC f&toa*
ftowlanda,
«n* o*v*t< known for nearly 100 years as
fro b>*mau hair; it is warranted free from
rtMftrtrrr* are composed and which rum
sweet «o the hottest climates and has a -
feair **ft.
1t e#pe«*iai
-an *!•*<• >•*» had
mrr , lod rfSffef
the best and safest preserver * tJi‘ b (re8 t)
om any lead or mineral Ingredient*. wUj kr*P „t» _*s»
the health (vide Mwlicar , t I’^pdef^;
of **>*'
i the health (rule radical papr..,. „
delicate and fragrant bouquet of roae ,pd
Elfins < 'ltT)r tiTnTrng*pibtrerigt;hen» weak °ihi, k er. b**
«micn
Childre- and
lift. «.
>r turning grew, strengthen. weak hair, eradicate. souri .u w.— »„rl i
S»- —
GOLDEN COLOUR*,,
.- a. ...4 hua ItuMn iftlriliriAllV IlfOl fOf til® „,,al
VUUV w
S re»r time and trouble, has been especially prepared {or the to *°
f a ,, rgrev-haired adnlta. Size. 3s Sd.; 75,; family bottle*.
fO*
Of 'he
drf* >i).ii fa” r jrrnv haired adult*, hum a. «a.; vi.; umuj to\
(M M ’be* bze. 11*
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR a healing and r ® rro *^dJeir' >
t». b a ~l anus, it eradicate* freckle., tan, sunburneczema. ™“ trfa | *«>
•be ,id„ pimple., cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a o~ fle c»fr
ROWLANDS" OOONTO whitens the teeth, prevenra *®{J k B B< *^
& Co
-ifigthens the gums, and gi
iWLANDtf’ articles, of 20, Hatton
EoWtANDS 1
(Similar n*,m#
oiroiiar
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bboh., and E. Pbobsbb.
FTW tnnof, n «rfer»t Thbodolitk Tripod in the world ia “ Wieaanar’s Naw Patent” with traversing head. A few of the many reasons for this bold assertion
the leading Government and private surveyors of the present time; it is lighter than the old style ; possesses ample traversing motion; stem wrthteoad steady { ioa t,rU»“j
by wear
the same i
nhantyeahle <*an be ordered bv wire and be sent same day's post), it) is equally enecuive ior au ciaaaea m worn., uum »uu “““ —: — 7 “
ST»%Sd ofddicj.iow to WIESEVEK'a srEAU EACroitv ind D.KECT .npoKTSTOKES. SYnVKV, by far toe larges, oonoen. u. flu. lm. m
Most Improved Goods can be inspected or Manufactured.
