

The Bulletin
OBKrTBDiTWI-A-Ij
'Oi 9 -No. 418.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 1888
Price. 8d»
NEW SOUTH WALES ?-OR WHAT?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
[Written on hearing that the N.S. W. Premier
proposed to change the name of Ne jo South
Wales to “ Australia."]
For better—for worse : through all dreamings
fantastic:
Among rations a maid, but no novice in sin,
She searchesandstiives, with a conscience elastic,
And a heart to her wild will so yielding and plastic,
Through a change of her name a new life to
begin:
Hath this strarge one, of all contradictions com-
pounded,
With all good and ail ill in her nature cc nfounded,
Shall she ever fair right to a noble name win ?
Will he come at her suing, that Name that she
eeeketh ?
Will he kies from her lips the dark stains of her
shame ?
Will he cast her old li'e—the ccrruption that
reeketh—
The red gleam of blood that her history streaketh
Into darkness eternal—that wonderful Name ?
Yes, perchance, though a hundred fierce summers
have seared her.
While her mother, far watching her, almost hath
feared her,
She hath still pride of youth that a stout heart
may tame.
Let her seek then to mate with a name that shall
grace her.
Spurning all the mad follies her hot fancy
bre vs—
Vile things wherewith idiots and snobs would
deface her,
In the rottencst roll of misnomers to p’aoe her :
Through the brain-racking list let her thought-
fully choose ;
''HAD Mrs£LF Auy >v * io rf vPorthß
T&ffM, |T WOULD HAVE BEEN to CONVERT iT tffTO
*AUSTf?AUA 'AS l3Eiir<: more acjrbeaqle To the ear
a(yo Ajy assim iLAT/orr to the pames of ft h£ other
CffE/r? po-t-ne^r
fFt?OKt J//S ACCou/rT OF A POyAfF AtsST/fAUS.J
W&JOS& T
ms
lest, weighted and crushed by a dead load o
drivel,
Lest, sicken* d with bog-wath and wearied with
snivel,
Her one chance cf winning her true love she
lose.
Then, at last, let her rice in her sweetness and
glory;
Let ber shake from her fair limbs foul garments
of old ;
Let her tell without fear the grand truths of her
story—
Though no banner she vaunt, in war draggled and
gory—
That plain, honest record—how, steadfast and
bold,
Those sens cf the North faced tie great solemn
Lore-land ;
How they p'erced to the heart of the burning
Unknown-land ;
How they gained frem the grip of Earth’s bosom
the gold.
How they fought for the right—how they won ;
yet there lowered,
Over eyes that sought light, still a shadow of
crime.
Now that shadow hath faded; those brave hearts
that cowered
'Netlh the hell-cloud that, blinding them, fiend*
laden towered,
Are free ; but a new cltud is looming—the rime
From the ice of the North blown is freezing their
1 faces,
Once so warm with the sun of the South : Must
' the traces
Of tyrarny, wealth-gotten, reach to all time?
To the endr- of the earth? God forbid I Newly
wedding.
I Shaking off tbine old garments, forget not to
stand
In raiment unspattered with baubles ; nor dread-
ing
Scorn of fools who love fetters, when gilded, and
I shedding
All ills that would cling ; till, a Glorified Land,
Thou sbinest, new-named. May it be 1 Ah, I
l tremble,
Scarce hoping, when sworn friends their foul
greed dissemble.
And, fealty feigning, in robbery band.
M.
The Parkes Appropriation.


“THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 PITT-STBKBT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ••• ® 6d.
Cheques Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. V. Archibald
notice.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer Is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but Is entirely In the
Hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1888
The Day We Were Lagged.
For some reason, not as yet very clearly
defined, New South Wales hollers with an
empty and artificial glee in honour of the
hundredth anniversary of the day she was
lagged. Elans and specifications have been
drawn up for a burst of spontaneous excite-
ment, and if the Government has been con-
tent with a middle-sized burst, it is merely
because of the want of means to pay for a
larger one. The coming display of loyal
exuberance is the most extensive that could
be purchased with the money at command,
and its features having been carefully
sketched out —rear elevation, front elevation,
and all the rest —the pent-up loyalty of the
alleged nation yvill shortly be let loose. For
months past the Parliament of New South
Wales has been engaged in organising a
feeble, fifth-rate drunk —a sort of combined
scalp dance and gin conversazione—in honour
of the meanest event in her short history,
and the nation which was built up on the
triple foundation of cat and gallows and
rum, is going to work to dig up the sacred
heirlooms of the past. The rum, alas ! has
long since been drunk, and only the bottle
remains, but the cat and the gallows still
survive—a little worn and moth-eaten, per-
haps, but fit for much substantial service
yet—and New South Wales is to rejoice
—as per sample—accordingly.
* • •
Leaving out the rum, the cat, and the
gallows, however, there is little cause for
exuberance. The fact that a hundred years
have elapsed since the colonisation of Aus-
tralia is in itself a matter of no special im-
portance. In the history of a nation a cen-
tury is a small affair. Assyria endured
through a vast, shadowy cycle of some 2000
years ; Rome lasted at least as long before
the Imperial banners vanished from the
last standing-place of a degenerate race and
the Moslems reigned in' their stead ; and
China and Egypt started their records as in-
dependent States in a far-off era, when an-
tiquity itself was young, and counted the
years of their existence by figures compared
to which a century is nob even as a bucket
in the ocean. And yet the childish, frothy,
boastful celebration so carefully worked up
by the pitiable politicians of New South
Wales is based almost entirely on the fact
that a hundred summers have shone on the
new community planted in the great lone
Continent —that Time has rolled onward
with the colonists as it has done with all
nations since the world was young ; and the
banners wave and the fireworks blaze be-
cause the sun and moon have not stood still
for Parkes as they did for Joshua. The
roll of empty years contains little that is
worthy of any better fate than obli-
vion, so New South Wales is reduced
to the dire extremity of keeping holiday
in commemoration of the first milestone on
the long, slow road to an unhonourcd old age.
A more imbecile subject for rejoicing could
not well be conceived, but the lowest depth
of abject folly is reached when we are
doomed to listen to the empty vapourings of
a race of politicians, who fondly imagine
that they are, in some unfathomable way,
connected with the epoch which has been
made the subject of an ocean of dreary
maunderings that they have kept their
bowed shoulders to the wheels of the chariot
of Time, and that, but for them, the great
machine would have ceased to move. New
South Wales has little except her age to
celebrate, and her empty vanity concerning
a hundred years of existence, in a world
where nations of no account date back to the
beginning of the Christian era, places her as
nearly as possible on a level with the Hot-
tentot chief who spat contemptuously on the
map of the globe, and called out his 480
naked spearmen in grand review in order to
show how easily he could conquer both
hemispheres If it were only worth his while.
For boastful ignorance, Parkes and the
Hottentot stand on the same level.
* * *
The so-called Australian Centenary is a
feeble copy of the great American celebra-
tion of a few years ago, and it resembles it
in the same degree as an ape resembles a
man. The elements of grandeur are entirely
wanting. The great Republic rejoiced, not
on account of an empty flight of years, which
pass alike for man and beast, for the noble
and the ignoble, the slave and the freeman,
but in honour of the triumph of liberty over
grasping tyranny, and in memory of the
immortals who fought and died in the only
cause which can ever render war justifiable,
Australia, on the other hand, celebrates a
century which began and ends alike in
nothing. A hundred years have left her as
they found her—a name but not a nation, a
huge continent content to be the hanger on
of a little island at the Antipodes to which
she is bound by the tie of a common
sovereignty under a foreign ruler, who holds
the throne in virtue of the loose fitting
morals which 150 years ago permitted the
bastard son of George I. to ascend the
throne of the hereditary drunkards of Han-
over. The hundredth anniversary of “ The
Day we were Lagged ” has been deliberately
chosen as the vantage point from which to look
back on a century of which there is little
cause to be proud, and star ding on this un-
holy pinnacle we view the profitless retro-
spect.
* * *
Far back in the dim past a band of gallant
explorers gave to the world a new continent.
Their history supplies more than one date
which might fitly have been chosen as the
starting point of Australian history, yet the
one among all others which has been fixed
upon as the natal-day of Australia is that
which commemorates her shame and degra-
dation, and reminds the world most emphati-
cally of the hideous uncleanness from which
she sprung. The day which gave to the
New World her first gaol and her first gal-
lows—the day when the festering vileness of
England was first cast ashore to putrefy
upon the coasts of New South Wales —the
day which inaugurated a reign of slavery and
loathsomeness and moral leproiy—is the
occasion for which we are called upon to re-
joice with an exceeding great joy. Yet
there might be palliation even for this, if
Australia could show that she had shaken off
the old fetters and the old superstitions of
that dark era ; she might afford then to cele-
brate the beginning of her disgrace, if it
were only to point out more clearly the dif-
ference between what she was and what she
had been ; but the old slavish taint still
clings to her garments, and her chains of
iron are merely exchanged for chains of
gold. The close of her first century finds
her busy rivetting on herself the fetters
which, a hundred years ago, were rivetted
on her by others, and, with the infatuation
of those whom the gods have driven mad,
she constitutes herself the tributary of Eng-
land, and entrusts the defence of her
liberties to a foreign fleet and a band of
naval mercenaries. The principle of taxa-
tion without representation, tvhich America
spent her best blood to repudiate, has been
accepted with acclamation by the degenerate
sons of the South, and Australia pays tribute
to maintain a navy over which she has
virtually no control, and which will
one day drag her into foreign broils on
behalf of a foreign race, and the next
turn its guns upon her own cities
in order to enforce the virtue of loyalty to
England’s foreign Queen. Australia began
her political history as a crouching serf kept
in subjection by the whip of a ruffian gaoler,
and her progress, so far, consists merely in a
change of masters. Instead of a foreign
slave-driver, she has a foreign admiral ; the
loud-mouthed tyrant has given place to the
suave hireling in uniform ; but when the
day comes for the colonies to claim their in-
dependence the new ruler will probably
prove even more dangerous and more for.
midable than the old.
♦ * *
The cowardly plea of Australia’s weakness
is the sole excuse put forward for the miser-
able surrender which commemorates her
centenary. Even amidst a cataract of gush
about the wealth and progress of the new
land this great Continent celebrates the
anniversary of the day its founders were
lagged by an open declaration of its inability
to stand alone, and prays to be sheltered
from the bogey of foreign invasion, even
though the price of that deliverance should
be a new lease of servitude. Other coun-
tries, it is true, with less than a tenth of
Australia’s resources, have stood their
ground with tolerable success against all the
outside world ; Chili, with her scanty,
mongrel population cooped up in a narrow
territory between the mountains and the
sea, has beaten off more than one dangerous
enemy without the loss of an inch of her ter-
ritory ; Mexico maintained her independence
against what was then tlid greatest mili-
tary power of Europe ; Switzerland,
La Plata, the Boer Republic—which, with
its little army of farmers, almost exterminated
the gaudy troops of England and slaughtered
their aristocratic commander at Majuba Hill
—and even barbarous Afghanistan have held
theirownagalnstimmense odds, but Australia,
whose geographical position alone is almost
sufficient, under the conditions of modern
warfare, to guarantee her perpetual peace,
obtrusively advertises to the world that she
is neither Mexico nor Chili, and that—when
danger is to be encountered —she has nothing
in common with either. Even the effemin-
ate soldiers of Egypt made a gallant struggle
before their native land sank into a feudatory
of England, but Australia, by the mouth of
such “ representative statesmen ”as Gillies
and Parkes, declares herself to be some-
thing meaner than Egypt and lower than
the Boer Republic. The declaration is one
which fits the occasion and does honour to
the anniversary of the day on which our
first families were—exported.
*- * *
But still Australia has some material pro-
gress to boast of. A hundred years have
changed the lonely wilderness into a garden,
and planted cities filled with vice where the
naked black fellow used to hunt for grubs.
The land grabber and the lying politician
have nearly ousted the kangaroo ; in
the place where the childlike savage once
held his orgies, a hungry-looking liar is now
passing round the hat for the Parkes
Tribute, and a thousand whisky-mills and
the regular customers thereof blossom where
no whisky-mill blossomed before. The
squashy places in which the nigger used to
camp have been drained, and churches have
been built upon them, in which corpulent
parsons hold forth every Sunday upon the
blessings of being poor and lowly ; the emu
has been scared out of its haunts, because
the site was wanted for a pawnshop, bossed
by an Orange politician ; and the cry of the
wild dog has given place to the howl and
oath of the Christian larrikin. The abori-
ginal no longer wooes his dusky bride in the
romantic bays of Port Jackson, and where
he used, a hundred years ago, to stun that
hapless virgin with a cltib and then drag her
away to his lair, the white man pounds his
wife with a chair-leg, and the eminently re-
spectable citizen and the member of Parlia-
ment shadow little girls in dark corners and
lure them to their ruin, while the tipped
policeman sneaks away in the dim distance
and runs in the small boy to be flogged or
hanged on the general principles of law and
justice. The effluvium of the Chinaman has
overpowered the old odour of ’possum ban-
quets, and open, honest violence has given
place to the “demnition grind” of toadyism
and ignoble pandering to gilded vice. A
single century has brought about all these
marvellous changes, and many more besides.
We have endeavoured to catalogue a few of
the works of the energetic Anglo-Saxon,
but space forbids us to complete the list.
• * •
For the rest, Australia shows many signs
of advancement, and the records of them are
writ large on the documents filed in the
office of the English money-lender. Eng-
lish capital is “imported” every day to
“develope the resources ” of the new land,
and, naturally enough, the English capitalist
takes the resources themselves for his pains.
The Australian digger and the Australian
pastoralist, when they have amassed a for-
tune, drift away to England because the sub-
serviency of Australia to that little country
has taught them to regard London— and not
Sydney or Melbourne—as the capital of this
Continent, and then the impoverished land
floats new loans to make up for the wealth
which has been stolen from her. Every
great and profitable enterprise is cursed in
some degree with English capital; almost
every valuable property is mortgaged to Eng-
lish financiers ; every improvement which
the country boasts pays toll to a greater or
less extent to England, and Australia is
eaten up by the payment of eternal interest
at the rate of 8 or 10 per cent, to the capi-
talists of a country where 3 per cent., or less,
is regarded as the limit at which security
can be obtained. A century of grovel has
almost abolished the virtue of self-reliance,
and Australia has learned to put her trust
in pawnbrokers until she has little that she
can really call her own. Let England but
foreclose on her securities, and Australia
would stand very much where she did 100
years ago.
# * *
And it is in honour of these things that
Australia rises to celebrate the great day
when her ancestors were lagged. Another
such century and it will be time for us to be
transported to Patagonia.
Our Centennial Criminal Code.
Until thirty-three years ago. New South Wales is
supposed to have been governed in accordance
with the spirit of the English Criminal law.
That, to begin with, is erroneous. Bad as Eng-
lish Criminal law was in 1855, humanity had
begun to appear under its black letters. Blotches
of blood had been removed from the voluminous
pages, and unreasoning savagery had sheathed
its teeth and drawn back a few paces from the
judgment seat, while intelligence, that is more
powerful than all brute force, had advanced. The
67 years comprised between the establishment of
the colony and the granting of Responsible Govern-
ment passed here without any modification of the
original code of barbarism, as far as written law
or the spirit that interpreted law, went. W hen
New South Wales took over her Constitution
thirty-three years ago, she took over the traditions
and practices that blackened and reddened Eng-
land 67 years before. This, too, is understating
the fact. The 67 years of wilder conditions, of
more barbaric surroundings, of denser ignorance
beclouding the multitude, of feller instincts for
brutality and vengeance actuating the ruling
classes, forced New South Wales to take over the
traditions with added blackness, and her own evil
practices were added to those of the mother-land.
* * *
When New South Wales took over the adminis-
tration of a savage, blood-stained code, few of her
citizens know civic rights or civic duties. They
had witnessed government by court martial from
their early days. The garrison, in their eyes,
was the fount of justice. The colony wak
36 years old before trial by jury was
thought of. A man charged with crime
was hauled before a judge and three or four red-
coats, called assessors, sat upon him. The lash
was the Alpha and the gallows the Omega of this
tribunal. Even when trial by jury was set up,
the alphabet remained the same. Jurors were
used to seeing daily flaying and hanging. The
laws of England were growing milder ; in France
the guillotine had been condemned, and was
steadily passing out of use ; Belgium had taken
down her scaffold and was building peniten-
tiaries ; Ohio and Massachusetts were throw-
ing away their ropes ; all the civilised world was
coming to see that the life of man, however
degraded, was not as that of the brute but Aus-
tralia was so far away and such seas of moral
scum lay around her shores, that the wave of
reform did not reach her ; and her jurors, many
of whom wore themselves flayed, and her judges
who had been actually brought up sitting at the
foot of the gallows, and several of whom had seen
their relatives on the triangles, gave the subject
of reform no thought. Hence the colony went on,
in the good old way of its forefathers, and hanged
for more offences than any other land of alleged
civilisation on the face of the earth, and as the
natural result produced more criminals in propor-
tion to population than did any other nation, ho
matter how degraded or how corrupt.
* * *
Nearly 20 years ago it was thought advisable to
establish a Criminal Code for ourselves. It had
struck a few minds that we had been acting too
long on a Code, many of whose provisions had
been abrogated by those who made them. There
is detected in the language of those who prayed
for an amended Code a desire for the infusion
of modern clemency into the terrible engine of
punishment. The Commission appointed to pre-
pare the Code, however, served as an effectual bar
to any such reform. 1 he garrison was strongly
represented on it. The members of it were primed
with dark personal experiences. Sir Alfred
Stephen and Sir James Martin had walked the
streets of Sydney with the shadows of hanging
men falling across the footpaths and with the
cries of mangled men ringing in their ears.
Sir W. Mannk»g and Mr. W. C. Windeyer
bad been brought up in the same school.
Civilisation, without corpses swinging in
the morning air and yells resounding through
gaol-yards, was as little possible of conception by
the legal luminaries of that dismal time os a
shambles without carcases. Those men drew up our
Code, and a hideous and ghastly production it was.
Wreck of reason and ruin of life were littered on
every page. Luckily, each particular was not
sanctioned by Parliament. There were present a
few representatives whose sources of information
were not confined to oral narratives of criminal
doings at Btoany Bay, and they broke a fang and
extracted a talon from the legal Frankenstein
here and there as the debate proceeded. But,
nevertheless, the I ode went through substantially
unaltered. By Legislative enactment, the triangles
were erected at the gate of our national life. Boys
and youths were the first to be provided
for. They are to be flogged if they take
part in, or stand looking on at, a cock-fight or
dog-fight. Any male person under 16 years of
age convicted of any indictable offences may be
once, twice, or thrice privately whipped ; any
boy or youth between 10 and 18 may be once
whipped in the lock-up, if he commits a wanton
or unprovoked assault, if he fights, if he throws
any missile, destroys public trees or plants, dis-
figures public buildings, disturbs any assemblage
by hooting or yfelling, or behaves in any other
offensive manner We have omitted certain
offences from the almost interminable list of the
Code, but those given show what liberal old
hands with the lash, where the backs of young
people were concerned, these exemplary jurists
were. But their liberality was still too niggardly
for some. It is recorded that one member of the
Legislative Assembly desired to add “ pitch and
toss ” to the list, and that the genial Mr. Daniel
O’Connor wanted the age to be extended be-
yond 18 and the list to include “ gambling on
Sunday.” Mr. O’Connor was satisfied with
later provisions of the Code. Omitting again the
sections dealing with indecent assaults, there are
13 offences, with multitudes of branches, for
which whipping is ordained. Many of them, such
as garotting and using chloroform, carry the
punishment of penal servitude for life, but the
whipping is thrown in because the fiendish
malignity of these dark ages considered a doom of
living death insufficient without an addition
worthy of Ashantee in the days when its capital
was paved with skulls. To flog a man under-
going penal servitude for life differs in no serious
way from torturing a man awaiting execution on
the gallows, and therein probably lay the chief
beauty of this provision in the opinion of that
Draconian Commission.
' * * *
On the death penalty, the Code is equally ex-
haustive. For 22 offences the gallows is awarded.
In the first place, the Commission presented a
new definition of the word “malice.” Jurists
hitherto made malice aforethought a condition of
wilful murder. The Commission now recom-
mended “that every act done of malice, whether
against an individual or a corporate body, or done
without malice, but with indifference to human
life or suffering . . . shall be taken to have
been done maliciously.” This recommendation
Parliament adopted. Of course, the plea was that
by pointing out the absence of malice afore
thought counsel had saved many necks from the
rope, and cheated the N osky Bob of that day of his
due, and the new definition was constructed to
prevent any more such escapes and to bring the
gallows into every home. The definition was, in
itself a contradiction in terms, but it paved the
way for more hanging, and changed accidental
homicide into murder, which was apparently the
great end and aim of N.S.W. jurisprudence,
A reckless or wanton act may lead to death, but
in England that crime is always “ alleviated ”
into manslaughter, except under pressure of
phenomenal political excitement, as in the case of
the “ Manchester Martyrs.” A premeditated
design to kill is a necessary essential of murder in
the Code of New York. The Indian Code lays it
down that the person charged with murder must
be shown to have known at the time that the act
he commits will in all human probability cause
death. The French Code insists on design as an
essential feature of the crime. Throughout the
States of America only the wilful taking away of
human life can be punished as murder, and in the
absence of proof to this effect a minor indictment
is had recourse to.
* * *
New South Wales, having done its work of
definition thus comprehensively, proceeded to
mark off’ the cases in which it would put men on
trial for their lives. It settled, as we said, upon
22. In Belgium, the death penalty is abolished ;
in Switzerland, opinion upon its abolition fluc-
tuates, the fluctuation showing how little certain
it is that the State does right in killing people; in


France, the penalty is rarely exacted, and that
only when murder is of the first degree and sur-
rounded with the most horrible circumstances, or
when repeated attempts to break the criminal to
discipline have utterly failed; in England the
penalty is set only against two crimes, and one
of these, that of high treason, may be very well
left out of the count ; in some of the States of the
Union there is a tendency to hark back, as in
Switzerland, but in most of them the death-
penalty is kept in the background, and in none of
them is it enforced except for murder in the first
degree ; but in New South Wales under the
Criminal Code that blackens the reputations of
those who dtvl ed it, and blackens and degrades
the Assembly that sanctioned it, the penalty of
death is to-day written up against the following
offences Murder, attempt at murder, setting
fire to apparel, setting fire to furniture, casting
away a vessel, destroying a vessel, destroying or
damaging a building by gunpowder or other ex-
plosive substance, placing any matter or thing
upon or across a railway, throwing any matter
or thing upon or across a railway, removing a
sleeper or other thing belonging to a railway, ad-
ministering poison, causing poison to be taken, ad-
ministering a destructive thing, causing a destruc-
tive thing to be taken, wounding, causing grievous
bodily harm, setting fire to a vessel, setting fire
to a chattel therein, and setting fire to tackle.
There are two offences against females for which
the death penalty is also decreed, but all that
need he said about these is that neither in the
English nor the French Code are they met with
death, while in the Code of New York the graver
of the two offences is allotted ten years’, and the
less five years’ penal servitude.
« * *
Such is the criminal law with which New South
Wales meets the world in her centennial year.
Other nations may point to their literature, their
arts and sciences, their colossal temples, and their
fleets which sail over every sea known to commerce.
They may boast of their dead heroes and their
gods of old mythology, and of their deeds in peace
and war, but New South Wales holds proudly
aloft the blood-spattered statutes which are all
her own. The scalp adorned wigwams of the
Cherokees, in the days when their battle-fires
lighted up a thousand hills, the reeking streets of
Coomassie when Coffee Calcali was in his glory
and every step stirred up some remnant of human
sacrifice, the skull-adcrned temples of Dahomey
when Gezo’s palace was festooned with human
bones, could hardly show a bloodier offering. A
hundred years of the white man’s sway in New
South Wales have left the graves almost as thick
as those which marked the path of the Stranglers
in Hindostan, and, with this awful past behind
us, we drink to the institutions of the colony —to
the Centenary of blood and the plague-spot of the
civilised world. New South Wales owes much to
its forefathers. May the grass grow and the
flowers bloom above their graves, and when their
works, which live after them, have finally passed
away, may their memories—in common charity—
be forgotten.
The Australian Luafer.
The Sydney Morning Herald, the organ of the
well-fed syndicate and the mouthpiece of the au-
riferous sharebroker, sneers with magnificent and
oleaginous scorn at the dirty loafer of the Sydney
Domain, and suggests that, as the beggar will not
work, he deserves to lie down with the lamb
beneath the canopy of Heaven, acd wash his soli-
tary shirt in the salt waters of “Our Beautiful
Harbour,” where the leering shark cruises round
and longs to take him in. The Herald further
suggests that this is the sort of two-legged chunk
of bankrupt humanity which it is intended to sup-
port in Pactolian luxuriance and laziness in the
coming age of ideal Socialism. The Herald —
like all people who object to all systems proposed
for the amelioration of husted-up mankind —con-
siders that Socialism imagines it is within the
bounds of future possibility to assist this tottering
old world along its insolvent orbit by dividing up
the total assets of everybody, an'd then sitting
down to consume them with no thought for the
victuals of the morrow. Certainly, it is difficult
to suppose anybody absolutely wanting the bare
necessaries of existence in the ideal Socialistic
state, but it follows, as surely as light the course
of the sun, that those who work must enjoy more
than those who ‘ ‘ loaf. ” Those who consider that it
is not just that the loafers of the present should
share with the industrious the fat and the fruit of
the earth, forget a multitude of things.
In the first place, the men who now
tramp round the country begging their
daily bread, and stealing their daily butter,
and shirtiing every description of toil, are really
the derelict brigs of humanity. They have lost
heart, because the odds against them are too
great. In the second place, systems of Socialism,
though lamenting this fact, do not propose to
contend against it. They who will not work,
even if they do not die of starvation, will not
have a very comfortable time of it. Free food
will always be food of the poorest and most
undesirable quality. It is a law of Nature that
they who will not work must be content to go
without a variety of things, the possession or
enjoyment of which makes life desirable
Socialism, however, does propose to give every
man an opportunity of applying his labour to all
the sources of production, and afterwards of
enjoying the results of that labour. Again,
Society of to-day tolerates the “loafer,” provided
he is attired in broadcloth and fares sumptuously
every day, but the same Society is righteously in-
dignant if the “ loafer ” has his nakedness covered
in rags of fustian. If he sleep in the
Domain he should be hanged—Socialism is nearly
as intolerant of the man who slumbers in the
palace. It simply advocates simple justice alike to
duke and dustman. It is, however, nonsense to
talk ot people who willnotivork when it is admitted
that there arc hundreds who will work, for whom
there is no work to do. The competition of the
“Johnny Warder” would only the more effec-
tually serve to bring wages down to the bare sub-
sistence point, and he can simply bo added to
the gross total of the “ unemployed.” For every
vacant situation in New South Wales there are
now 58 applicants, and of these 49 are necessarily
disappointed; therefore, says the Herald, let
the loafers reform and seek employment so that
60 men, in place of 50, may scramble for every
vacancy which offers at starvation wages, and 59
may go away weary and heartsick and desperate,
instead of 49. The inveterate loafer, in fact, does
more good as he reclines on his frowsy couch in
the Dqpjain than is accomplished by a hundred
gilded idlers in their fashionable coibs. In a
passive sort of way, he relieves the pressure
upon his industrious starving brethren ; so
far as lies within his power, he gives
them a chance to obtain daily bread, and, in spite
of this, thousands of willing workers are in want.
If a country has within its boundaries one million
tramps, and four million for whom there are no
avenues for the employment of their labour, it
simply means that there are in that country five
million for whom avenues for the employment of
their labour do not exist,
THE “ BULLETIN'S ” CENTENNIAL ORATION.
The undermentioned speeches will probably not be delivered at any Centennial banquet in New South Wales, or, if delivered they
will certainly not be reported by the slavish daily Press. For this reason they are printed here in advance, and when deep answers
unto deep in the great ocean of lies and sycophancy, and New South Wales goes mad over the Centenary of its first gaol and its first
gallows, we trust that at least a few genuine Democrats will try to forget the anniversary of a loathsome tyranny, and spare a thought
for the day which Australia ought to celebrate.
The Day We Celebrate.
On this 26th of January the people of New South Wales will be called upon
to jubilate. This is as it should be. In this the “authorities,” as in the
past hundred years, arrange the festival and “command” the obedient
enthusiasm of a nation of serfs. The 26th of January is the gala-day of
Officialism—the ragamuffin stands without, cap in hand, to cheer a docile
approval when the hired band within the banqueting chamber plays “ God
save the Queen ” to the first toast on the list. One hundred years ago
Governor Phillip landed in the little bight whereon now stands the city o
Sydney. He named the cove after a viscount; the curse of official
patronage began with the baptism of the settlement. He found “ a fine
run of fresh water stealing silently through a thick wood.” The wood has
vanished, the stream still flows, but polluted, subterranean and noxious.
This is typical of our progress from the date of that eventful landing down
to the present day. Our early history would disgrace the annals of an
Ashantea sultan. The pages are stained with blood, with cruel, deliberate,
hut judicial murder. They smell of the gaol; they are marked with the
rust-prints of gyves ; they are bruised and branded with the lash. The day
of the Centenary should also be the day of Atonement. The rulers of New
South Wales —the administrative chain-gang of history which hands down
the hated traditions and perpetuates the hideous memories of the past—not
the people, should upon this day mourn fasting, with their hands upon
their rotten hearts, like to those doomed ones in the dreadsome Hall of
Eblis. Of the long list of the representatives of England’s majesty and
greatness is there one whose name is worth preserving from its fated
oblivion I Not one ! And what a list! From puling Phillip to society-
leading Oarington there is not a man who has for “his” colony done as
much good as poor old Dr, Lang, who, with all his aberrations of intellect,
was a whole-souled, single-hearted, though somewhat eccentric hero. One
hundred years are past, and we are still the fettered bondsmen of the task-
masters put in authority over us. And the fetters are the more galling
inasmuch as they are not now in all cases so tangible. Those
who rank as statesmen, like the officers of the ancient coa-
vict-guarding New South Wales corps, look across the ocean
for preferment, and tyrannize over their fellows for a puppet-decorating
gewgaw from the hands of those who keep watch over the sycophant-
rewarding smiles of Royalty, In Sydney itself, that hallowed spot upon
which first pressed the foot of manacled man, where first the dusky child
of the forest heard the musical clink of the law-abiding leg-iron and the
“ whish ” of the skin-abrading cat; in Sydney itself, in this lotus-land of
loveliness, poverty is not unknown ; in this God-given stretch of luxurious
prosperity, this smiling, milk-blessed and honey-benisoned paradise, men
have actually died of want. Here, on this historic ground, wh*re first was
poured that sacred libation of civilised and Christianised rum, nigh upon a
hundred years ago, thousands have but recently gathered, and besought the
red-tape Officialdom that brought them hither for work, or the coarsest fare
that would keep aflame the spark of life. We have much to be thankful for.
Where Phillip landed white men have had to fight with coolies and witn
Chinamen for the drudgery that will enable them to gain the pittance that
buys the bread of dependence, while the descendants of those same historic
rulers are quietly and luxuriously enjoying the unquestioned possession of
noble stretches of the people’s land. New South Wales has never been
wholly emancipated, she drags a broken fetter at her heel. It was
attempted to change the character of the settlement from bond to free by
simply diverting the stream of convicts which once flowed into Sydney Cove.
But the system remained unchanged. The old Officialdom, the men whose
cradles were rocked to the tune the lash played on a man’s bare back,
whose infant rattle was a hand-cuff, whose teething pad was Ihe link of a
leg-iron; these were retained. One of the Chief Justices of the colony was
ex-Attorney-General of a neighbouring penal settlement in its worst days of
brutal tyranny. His son, bred in the atmosphere of Conviciism, sits on the
Bench of the Supreme Court. 'Jhe gallows was one of the earliest institu-
tions in the colony. It still thrives luxuriantly on the soil made rich by the
spilt blood of judicial victims. It is said that among the first hangings on
New South Wales soil was a boy of 17. We cling fondly to these loved
traditions of our past. Only a year before this Centennial period we hanged
two boys of that age and two but a couple of years older. We did it, too, as a
blood-offering to the New Year. These early judges and jailers were
humorous men, and their spirit survives. The lash was also one of the
earliest, if not one of the most popular, of English imports. We have been
compelled to take many a hated institution from England during 100 years,
but the lash was very salutary. We have been brought up under it We
have been flogged like the blackfellow’s “gin ”to “ make us good.” We
ought to be very good 1 Spare the rod and spoil the child ! Can it be pos-
sible that we should be spoiled after all that was done in loving kindness to
reclaim our fathers 2 They used to drive them to church in those early
days. Now they put the screw on with the same intent, albeit in a different
fashion. The door of Science is slammed in the faces of the people, and a
Proctor is commanded not to preach the Gospel of Nature, because it is
the “Commandant’s” desire that the “Sabbath” be not broken, a free
man dare not moisten his lips on the day sacred to Cant, lest the ghost of
some defunct convict chaplain be outraged. The “ authorities ” have a
great admiration for the folk-lore of their prison- walled past. J hey strove
to celebrate the last Christmas by flogging a man, and would have done so
as in the good old times, but a legal technicality interfered, and the grand
and antiquated ceremony somehow fell through, much to the disappoint-
ment, no doubt, of those same guardians of law and order. It was spoken of
in the Legislature, too, that one judicial tiger recommended a man in prison
to submit to a hideous mutilation, and in this free colony of New South
Wales now celebrating its glorious hundredth birthday, fiends could be
found to applaud. Women, hell-hags, fit to be the mothers of such a
Caliban-begotten brood, smacked filth-stained lips with unction over the
proposal. Some of these women will one day give birth to the men on whom
we rely to hand down the splendid traditions of our proud heroic past.
New South Wales has statesmen ! —alas ! that it should be so ; would she
had none —men who trail their country’s honour in the dust, and solicit our
alms with the unblushing effrontery of a courtezan. One of her “states-
men” recently quoted New South Wales as the “ mother of civilisation in
this part of the world.” Unfortunately, it is true. New South Wales
is the “mother of civilisation in this part of the world,” and
the word “civilisation” carries with it all those horrible asso-
ciations of gyves, and gallows, and gaols —sycophancy and lying
toadyism, robber speculation and commercial theft, ignorant prole-
tarians and remorseless labour-swindlers ; rum and ruin and retribution.
The 26th of January, 1888, is a fitting conclusion to a disgraceful and crime-
saturated period. It began with crime and crime stalks through it red-
banded to the last hour of its blood-stained continuance. The sins of those
it was sought to punish, and the tenfold more loathsome crimes of the
gutter-fiends who acted as their gaolers, have eaten upward, and now with
awful vengeance find a fertile breeding-place in the very hearts of the
rulers of this people. Honesty is openly laughed to scorn ; corruption rules
in high places ; the cardinal virtues are assessed at the rate of interest they
will return ; political purity was sunk outside the Heads many years ago,
and there is no one left to mourn its death ; the marketable vices fetch 200
per cent, in the stock exchange —usurer’s ordinary interest —and the man
most prominently connected with the history of the colony during the latter
part of its first century is, fittingly enough, its Premier on its hundredth
birthday. Beneath his rule we have written our name down on the annals
of the world’s progress in characters of shame and folly. At the end of his
political life he brought all his power and craft and cunning to bear in
order to fetter us to a policy of war and Imperial intrigue. This Machia-
velli essayed also to celebrate this day of festivity and jubilation by a
political burglary, and attempted to filch the common property of the Con-
tinent in order to ornament with an honoured, but rifled, name the period
of his own dictatorship. This man, whom one of his own followers most
appropriately describes as a “ Caesar of sand,” displays his competence for
the management of the affairs and finances of the country, whose
misfortune it is to be ruled by him, by mismanaging and squan-
dering his own, and at the close of a life of imbecile and
spendthrift extravagance is saved from insolvency—for the third or fourth
time—by the dole wrung by threats from unwilling civil servants, school
children, and workmen of the humblest class slaving for a food-wage on
Government relief works. Fill high your glasses, rave loudly of your inde-
pendence, of your prosperity, of the broad-spreading future of the golden
years fading away into the roseate mist of poetic fatness ; “ ret the kettle
to the trumpet speak, the trumpet to the cannoneer without, the cannons
to the heavens, the heaven to earth ; ” wreathe your heads with chaplets of
flowers, gorge like the Choctaws of the forest upon costly viands, swill like
the Vikings of old of the red sparkling wine ; let eyes flash with rapture
and pulses thrill with delirium, until, like Circe’s hogs, you are happy in
bestial enchantment—the salves echo among the tree-clad hills of Sydney
Harbour, the glasses clink, the champagne gurgles down the throats of the
fools who shout “ Hurrah 1” They did all just this 100 years ago 1
The Day We Ought to Celebrate.
On the 3rd December, 1854, not 34 years ago, a deed was done, the influence
of which in some genuine Australian hearts is felt to-day, and will be felt by in-
creasing numbers for many days and many years to come. Whilst New South
Wales was hanging boys and flogging virtue into the hides of hardened crimi-
nals, its young southern neighbour was springing forward with a wondrous
nascent vigour in a race for first place, and the fondly self-styled “mother
colony ” was speedily left lagging in the rear. It has not yet caught up,
though its age is three times that of its rival, and toe area of its territory
four. New South Wales brags loudly of the aid she has extended to her
sister States, forgetting that the moribund institutions which she has pat-
ronisingly bestowed upon them have in nearly every instance been produc-
tive of wholesale trouble and acrid dissension. Is it necessary to cite the
pro-convict faction fights of old Moreton Bay and the separation struggles
of the past, or will that one instance of December 3, 1854, suffice ? We all
know its history; it is familiar as the names of the men who led the
English van on Crispian’s Day to those who fought at Agincourt. Victoria
sprang into existence like Minerva, a perfect goddess clad in shimmering
mail, fresh from the brain of Jupiter. There was no painful preliminary
epoch of agony and death-torture. The convict-settlement notion of coloni-
sation luckily failed through Judge-Advocate Collins’ ignorance and im-
practicable red tapeism. Victoria enjoyed a respite of 30 years. Then came a
race of hardy adventurers, steady sturdy men with strong arms and a free
look of liberty in their eyes. And New South Wales made haste to gather
into the fold of official espionage the new-born settlement. Sydney’s de-
partmental under-strappers were despatched to keep the new outpost in regu-
lation repair, and when V ictoria grew too big to be governed from the vice -regal
sentry-box at Botany Bay, England generously gave her a vice-regal sentry-
box of her own, but of similar pattern, erected on the same plan, according to
the same specifications, as that one overlooking the waters of Farm Cove.
It answered for a little while, just so long—and no longer—as it took the
new colony to assert itself, which it did on the 3rd of December, 1854. When
gold was found, all the brawn and brain of Europe flocked to the port of
Melbourne. These were men who came in search of wealth ’tis true, but
men who dared danger and death and loved adventurous enterprise, many
of them, as much as they loved gold. They were not as the commercial
thieves and titled spongers who visit the colonies in later degenerate days.
These gold-searchers were the fathers of Victoria, and almost the first thing
that happened after their multitudinous invasion was collision with the cut-
and dried system of government provided so generously by England and
copied so slavishly from the fusty pattern furnished by the alleged “mother
colony.” The Victorian Legislative Council, composed partly of nominee and
partly of presumedly-elected members, knew not the people—the diggers.
Those sons of toil were not represented in the official-filled and squatter-
bossed councils of the State They paid an exorbitant fine for the privilege
of working. They were hounded lise dogs by the insolent brats who wore
the Government uniform. Digger-hunting was huge sport. Miners were
chained up by the 50 like a road-gang, and dragged to the police-court to
be fined. Two days every week were devoted by the authorities to hunting
for unlicensed diggers. By and by a man named Scobie was killed in a
brawl at Ballarat, and his murderer was acquitted by the police magistrate
who tried the case. The enraged diggers burnt down the assassin’s hotel,
and Maclntyre, Westerly and Fletcher were imprisoned for the act..
A demand was made by their comrades for their release, and it was refused.
The soldiers marched up from Melbourne to keep order and were harassed
by the diggers who hung upon their trail. Then came the weekly hunt for
unlicensed miners, with the red-coated rabble to support the police.
The diggers resisted and enrolled themselves in a citizen army
under the leadership of Peter Lalor, noblest of diggers and of opponents
to the first manifestation of aggressive Imperialism in Victoria, On
December 3rd, 1854—the day we ought to celebrate—met this little repre-
sentative Democracy and the paid bloodhounds of unjust authority. It was
Sunday morning, the day upon which Officialism was wont to repair to
church, and to pray with sycophantic snuffle for the evangelical
replenishment of their most Gracious Sovereign lady, Queen
Victoria, and the prospering with all happiness of that multifarious
entity euphemistically described in the church service of an
obedient people, as “ all the Royal Family,” It was Sunday morning when
a prayer was put up to Liberty by a digger, and the responses were sung by
the- rattle of side-arms and the whistle of death-dealing bullets. Two
hundred and seventy-six men in the pay of a foreign power, including a
strong body of cavalry, stole forward in the gray mist of morning to carry
by assault the miner’s frail embattlement. They fire alternately—the
diggers and the docile instruments of military foice. The' men behind the
stockade give a ringing cheer, and fire again. Then there is a dash on the
part of the hirelings of authority and the first line of defence is crossed ;
the police rush the inner line, and uproot the flag-staff, and tear down the
banner of rebellious Labour. On come the soldiers, close in the wake of the
police, but Captain Wise, of the 40th, and Lieutenant Paul, of the I2th
Regiments, are wounded, the former mortally. The military rush headlong
over the barricade, carrying the tiny redoubt at the point of the bayonet.
But the insu* gents behave gamely to the last. Thirty of them lie dead in
the entrenchment, 125 are disabled, and taken prisoners; the district is
placed under martial law, the tents of the diggers are burnt and razed to
the ground. and all this happened while the good people of
Melbourne were sleepily preparing to go to church, and pray
for their Gracious Sovereign lady. Queen Victoria ! Peter
Lalor, left for dead in the Eureka Stockade, escaped with the loss of his
a’m, and, like his lieutenants— Vern and Black— defied the cunning of the
police, though a reward of £4OO was offered for his capture, alive or dead. In
the following year, Mr. Lalor and Mr. Humferay, also a rebellious miner,
represented the Ballarat diggers in the Government of the country. The
State had condoned rebellion and was compelled to recognise the will of
the people. Revolt is the parent of reform ; and, though Eureka Stockade
fades into insignificance when placed beside Bunker’s Hill, the meaning and
the impulse in each case of armed resistance were the same. In the dusky
dawn, when the hired soldiers of Imperialism crept forward to take by
storm the rude barricade erected by the insurgent citizens ; when the
ringing voice of Lalor thundered out upon the damp air
of the morn'ng when, with the glistening dew beading their
unshorn beards, the stalwart diggers griped with brown hands
or swung aloft with brawny naked arms the clubbed musket; then-
then was heard in each heart an echo of the shot fired by the New England
farmer which won a nation’s freedom and gave mankind another lease of
hope. 1 hen was heard that voice in the crack of the miner’s rifle that rang
out in the lines of Lang when he wrote to Bari Grey with scathing invective,
and warned him that for three years had that unwitting nobleman been
knocking at the gates of Futurity for the President of the United States of
Australia, The spirit of Lalor and of Lang is the spirit that we long for
in our public men, but it is the spirit that seems to have taken flight with
the men who gave it birth. Lang is dead ; Lalor has retired from public
life. As with America so with Australia. Washington, Lincoln—Cleve-
land ; Lang, Lalor — Parkes. In America of the past, heroes,
patriots, farmers. In America of the present, capitalists and their human
property. In Australia of yesterday, pioneers, diggers, Democrats. In
Australia of to-day, toadies, grovellers, lick spittles. Ihe old impulse is
not dead, however, though the land-thief and the labour-thief rig our
markets and shark our estates ; though our politicians sell us for an empty
distinction and barter our birthright for a mess less than royal pottage.
The people of Australia —the true, the genuin e Democrats, the Australians
—refuse to celebrate the landing of Phillip ; they look across the Murray for
the one representative act of their nationality ; they look across the ocean
for the one representative utterance which foretells their future, and they
find their exemplars in the rebellious miner, Lalor, and the irritable parson
Lang. 'The one, by his heroic action in heading the diggers in revolt against
unjust and tyrannical authority, furnished forth a precedent to Australia,
which all Australians woithy of the name should inscribe in letters of in-
delible print within the red-leaved tablets of their hearts The other, by his
magnificent pertinacity and splendid daring, snatched a grand territory from
convict-loving Officialdom and gave it to the free settler. 'I heir deeds will
speak ever louder than tablets of brass or monuments of marble, but if
there is one thing the people of Australia could, with beautiful propriety,
perform, it is to place in the Fortitude Valley, Brisbane, in the very locality
in which Lang’s first free settlers took up their first abode, a
memorial of this genuine worker and true Australian. The
Ballarat monument still remains to be erected, but alas I
the race of men in Ballarat of to-day are not the stalwart heroes of fifty-
four. They hucsster about a Stock Exchange, and their most magnificent
effort at appreciation of merit is a Statue to a Gublphic and foreign
Sovereign. Let it pass. The men who fought for liberty are not of the
brand to be pleased with flattery. Their deeds live on in default of
tablets. The shouts of diggers are in the air, the ping of the rifle-bullet is
heard overhead, there is a clash of steel and a hurtling of arms; a flag
with the insignia of labour—the pick and the shovel—flaunts proudly in the
morning breeze above us. . . ’Tis a memory of the day that Australia
set her teeth in the face of the British Lion, December 3rd, 1854—the Day
We Ought to Celebrate.


NOTICE.
TO AGENTS AND SUBSCRIBERS,
THURSDAY , 26 JANUARY, being a pub-
lic holiday the next issue of The “Bulletin ”
will be published on the morning of WED
NESDA Y, 25th inst.
In the present style, if one has a daughter
or undo or other relative of the gcds, divinely
tall, it isn't good form to speak of him or faqr, as
such. “ Altitudinoua ”or “ palisady ”is the cor-
rect way to allude to the lengcny just now in the
upper suckles.
At Newcastle (N.S.W.) two residents have
established a large sized coolness over a little
p int of order. One of the gentlemen Hogged his
wife, and the bruised female fled to the house of
the other for refuge As her legel owner couldn’t
get her back he executed and erected a large sign
bearing the words: “No oonekion with thos next
doore." The other man retaliated with a counter
sign: “Nowomen floged hear," and, as already
remarked, a coolness arose In consequence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Offering of Blood.
Sib Henry Parkes, in a sudden flush of Austra-
lian pride, once remarked that New South Wales
was the “ mother of civilisation ” of that Greater
Britain south of the Equator. This, of course, is
stalking lunacy if it were taken seriously. But
then it shouldn’t he, for Sir Henry didn’t mean
it. He never does. He never means anything
when he speaks after dinner. Not even a railway
to the poor, dehided yokels, who banquet him on
the verge of some remote wilderness, and try to
fascinate his suffrages for their one-horse district
by a copious libation of bad champagne poured
out to an accompaniment of jerky, bucolic drivel.
He seldom means anything he says on any other
occasion. Like the Chinaman’s cockatoo, he
speaks usually through his neck, and nearly al-
ways because he cannot help it. An examination
of the lofty panjandramic boast is fatal to its
awe-inspiring magnitude. Suppose the preten-
sions of New South Wales to the maternity of civi-
lisation in these parts be submitted to the finest
and most philosophical of tests —a comparison of
her laws with those of countries which Park«ts
and Co. hold up as models ; with England, say,
or America ; how does the “ mother of civiliza-
tion ” come out of the ordeal ? The spirit of the
laws of New South Wales are certainly
unique. They are founded mainly on bibli-
cal precedent— they believe in propitiation of
vengeful deities by plentiful libations of
human gore. An important part of the old Jewish
ceremonial was the “ sprinkling with blood,” and
the alleged Christians resident in New South
Wales —‘ ‘ the mother of civilisation in the Southern
Hemisphere have borrowed this item from the
elder faith. The High Priest, before entering the
tabernacle, sprinkled with a bunch of hyssop
dipped in blood the lintel and door-posts of the
consecrated edifice. Before entering the open
gates of a New Year it is customary in Christian
New South Wales to propitiate the deity of deficits
and Freetrade also by a blood offering. This
grand old custom fell through this year from
various causes. But, all the same, they keep
holiday in Sydney by killing the fatted criminal—
the fatted calf*moralises on the other fellow's
fate. Christ said, “ I bring not peace on earth,
but a sword,” and His New South Wales followers
have translated it literally and spend some years
of their lives, as in the performance of a sacred
duty, in the arduous work of making corpses and
spilling b’ood. Those Christians who cannot be
soldiers endeavour to become criminal lawyers or
j udges, or hangmen—anything, so they may share
in the great work of promoting modern colonial
civilisation. “ Without shedding of blood,” they
read, “ there can bo no remission of sins.” So
they shed blood, no matter whose, if it be
not their own. They are solicitous, on the
same principle, for the safety of their
neighbour’s soul and the punishment of their
neighbour’s sins. Of their own souls and
their own sins it matters not. The souls of those
who were born to rule were presented to them by
a merciful Providence ready saved. Their time
is altogether occupied in the punishment of the
commission of sins in others. Hence it stands to
reason that they have no time left to commit sins
themselves. The New South Wales authorities
celebrated the advent of last year by stringing up
four youngsters by the neck to kick out their
young lives in the early morning sunshine, no
doubt as a sort of "blood offering” to the special
Providence that watches over the interests of
Imperialism in Australia. This immediate festive
season they have nobody to hang, for the lat .st
outrage has completely burst up. The selfish
criminal possibly with a view of defrauding an
important Christian festival of a very momentous
part of its significance, has evidently resolved to
postpone all the 22 offences punishable with the
death-penalty until a period when he may better
be dispensed with. But, true to the blood-hued
traditions of its convict past, New South Wales,
although unable to celebrate the New Year or the
Centennial by a big strangling exhibition, resolved
not to allow last Christmas to pass without a flog-
ging. So a Frenchman, a demented old crank,
with a loathsome predilection for the unclean
thing, was settled upon as the instrument for
sreriflee The case, however, fr,m purely
technical causes, and from no fine merciful sensi-
bilities on the part of the authorities, fell through,
and a great Christian festival was allowed to pass
without a “blood offering.” In another colony,
which does not pose as the “ mother of
civilization ” south of the line, the Chief
Jus ice recently strongly advocated a modi-
fication of the criminal law in order to mark the
(Centennial Year. But, then, Victoria is so far
behind the “ mother colony ” in such a variety of
things!
*
The Paddington Election.
The Sydney daily Press is In an apologetic mood.
The Paddington election has been lost to the
nigger and Chinese labour cause in spite of the
stupendous efforts made by the so-called Freetrade
Government which collects over £2,000,000 per
annum at the Customs House, and which, while
preaching the lying doctrine of absolute commer-
cial liberty, points proudly to the fact that it has
wrung from the people during the last quarter of
1887 nearly £5OOO more in duties than the semi-
Protectionist Jennings Cabinet did during the
corresponding months of 1886. The Freetrade
Association raised its shoddy banner and brought
to the poll every soul who could be induced to
vote because he believed in Park»s, while those
who did not believe in Parkks were rallied up to
plunge for commercial freedom, and electors who
regarded commercial freedom as a sham were
invited to adhere to their principles and shore up
the Government which levied more in Customs
duties than the Protectionists ever attempted,
and which was consequently more protective than
Protection itself The loyal grovellers of Padding-
ton were summoned to rally round the Chartist
who had gone back on his principles, and
to support the author of the infamous
Defence Hill ; the gilded aristocrats of the
suburbs were appealed to to crush the candidate
who boiled soap, because boiling soap was
common, dontcherknow ; and the Orange pup
was roused from his lair and came forth in n state
of moral mango to howl forth tho old lio of bigots
and renegades, and to tell for the humireth time
how Protection was synonymous with Popery,
and how it was the duty of every Christian to
scream, “to hell with the Pope !” “ Not less
than 3000 Australians and Freetraders should go
to the poll on Thursday to beat back the few
Protectionists and the ring of denominationalists
who are backing them up,” wrote a thinly dis-
guised Orange politician in the correspondence
column of the Sydney D.T., but when
the cause of the cheap German, the
Chinaman, and the Coolie went under at
the polls, the Government crab walked back-
wards down the columns of the daily Press on a
new basis. The 612 local-Optionists who voted
for Mr. Knapp were credited, every one, to the
Freetrade party, on the assumption that only the
men who want Freetrade in everything else de-
mand Protection in the matt-r of liquor, while
those who want Protection for industry are
anxious that whisky should flow like an unfet-
tered torrent through the land, and, on the
strength of this truly Hottentot philosophy, the
followers of the unshaved Parkes claim a moral
victor}'. But the one overwhelming fact revealed
by the ballot is discreetly ignored by the daily
Press. Protection won —despite the childish lies
of the 12th of July fanatics who seek to run the
religious bigotry of the dark ages into modern
politics, and the frenzied efforts of the men who
import foreign shoddy and crush out local manu-
factures—because the Protectionists have gained
1000 votes in the Paddington electorate during
the 12 months that Parkes has blighted r> ew
South Wales with the incredible follies of his dod-
dering old age. One year of the blessings of
“honest government,” and of that mongrel
system which its advocates call Freetrade,
because it taxes trade as heavily as Protection,
but without protecting it, have raised the Protec-
tionist vote from 715 at the last general election
to 1696, and a similar change of sentiment is in
progress in every part of the colony. A few
months ago, when Mr. Wise’s torn and trodden-
on banner could only rouse a majority of 40 at
South Sydney, the daily press exulted over
their victory, but the 13. T. pathetically urged
that if another such success was to be achieved,
the Government cripple must learn to walk
straight in its future dealings ; and again, a few
weeks ago, when the Freetrade majority in
Central Cumberland was found to have declined
from 900 to 300, the Man of Hair was called upon
by his saddened supporters to try if he could be a
little less imbecile in his politics, and a little more
reliable in his fac-s. But these kindly warnings
were ignored, and now Mr. Allen’s victory at
Paddington is for the insolvent poet the beginning
of the end.
♦
Sj
The Poor will not Centenoialc.
The single item on the Centennial celebration
programme which we regarded with a commen-
datory eye has been erased. The poor will not
centenniate. While gorging and guzzling is pro-
gressing in the banqueting chamber of the lofty,
the lowly will not receive a scrap or a morsel in
honour of the close of a century which
many of them possibly have given then-
lives and their fortunes in assisting to
make glorious. The average tax-payer pro-
fits little or nothing by the Centennial. ’Tis
his alone to defray the cost of the viands and the
wines with which the “distinguished visitors”
and local grandees will stuff their skins. The
bill would be paid with sweeter alacrity if he felt
that for once in a hundred years at least his
poorer and more unfortunate brother could
enjoy the substantial benefit of a square
centennial feed. But the poor man, like the
average tax-payer, is left out in the cold; he will
not centenniate. The ox is roasted and the calf
fattened to grace the table and fill the maws of
those whose whole existence is one long feed. It
is not worth while to conciliate the proletarian.
Political influence is too valuable a thing to waste
on a chronically empty stomach. When we
jubilate, we dispense superfluities to those who
have never known what want means. We tender
banquets to inflated wind-bags whose chiefest con
cern in this world is to hear the dulcet rhythm
of their own voices, maundering their own dreary
platitudes, inflicting on a long-suffering world
their own interminable prose and useless chopped-
logic, punctuated with the clatter of plates and
dishes, italicised with the clash of knives and
forks, and the clink of glasses, and emphasised
with the gurgle of champagne, as it floods the
human reservoirs beneath dress waistcoats. But
we do not make the hungry man a happier being
by a single plenteous meals for once in a hundred
years. On the 26th January the hungry will only
be hungrier. The poor will not centenniate.
♦
An attempt has been made by some of the ultra-
grovellers of the grovellingest British Jingoes to
get up a little milingtary enthusiasm about yet
another Jubilee. Whose, do you guess ? Why,
H.B.H. the Duke of Cambridge’s, Commander-in-
Chief of the British Army! It is only British
snobbery and British fatuity which could imagine
such a thing. The twin French Imperialistic
Humpty Dumpty, Prince Jerome, was jeered out
of countenance and office under the nick-name of
Plon-Plon for poltroonery which, beside that of
the uncle of Her Gracious, was reckless heroism.
This hulk mg coward, sent out to the Crimea, as
Connaught was to Egypt, to qualify himself for
the filthy lucre of high place in the British tax-
paid army, utterly lost control over himself when
he got under fire —wept and swore, and, drawing
his pistol, threatened to murder somebody if he was
not taken to the rear I He wns taken to the rear,
and a solemn court of doctors was empannelled to
bring in the verdict that “ the air of the Crimea
was not suitable to his highness.” Cambridge
accordingly was shipned home, and his subsequent
history, as a bigamising skunk who ran away into
a shop to avoid a thrashing from a man he had
wronged, is more or less public property. The
shame of his Crimean exposure, however, has
been kept wonderfully close. No British officer
cares to let the world know the hound he has as
his chief. Jubilee of the Duke of Cambridge
indeed ? The less spoken of the hoary, old, sinful
coward the better, one would think. The temper
of the Democracy less and less brnoks the exis-
tence of such placemen, but the English Democracy
is the most long-suffering, because the most in-
grainedly snobbish, of them all!
THE PIGGOTT FUND.
We have received the following subscriptions to
the Piggott Fund. Farther amounts will be
acknowledged as they come to hand :—A Friend,
£1 ; R.D.8., 10s. ; P.X„ £5.
In an obscure corner of the old cemetery
at Bathurst, the camping-ground of mangy curs
and mal odorous billygoats, lie the remains of
Daniel Henry Deniehy, unmarked save by a bit of
freestone, nine inches high, placed there by an
admirer 20 years ago.
HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
When the Australian colonist of to-day
wakes up now and then, with a spasm of
horrified disgust to find a creature of weak intel-
lect or otherwise mentally diseased, deliberately
fiogged in the police-stations at the corners of
Australian streets, ha is under no misapprehen-
sion, as to where our flogging laws and customs
come from. He knows they come down, with the
people who make and administer them, in a kind
of un-apostollo but strictly canonical succession,
from the men and the manners of one hundred
years ago at Botany Bay.
* * *
It is quite easy to diagnose our progress
since that time. We have only got to compare
the present with the past. The whistling lash
sings a story in the ears of all who will listen to
it, of the survival in colonial life of the influence
of the gaolers of the convict days. The convicts
have gone—let oblivion go with them ! No
offences of theirs could have outweighed their
expiation. But their miserable memories call for
the execution of a pitiless j nstice on those who
once made their chains hang heavier and their
gyves call deeper, and whose representatives
would hang in convict-irons to day the free spirit
of an Australian people, who have nothing to do
with the past other than to submit to be governed
as long as it may p’ease them, by the sur-
viving spirit of the convict-days.
• * *
Deserted by God and man, the convicts
on their arrival were left to the mercy of wretches
whose characters are best painted by their own
acts. The story becomes too Zola like in its
realistic horror to be minutely treated by any
other than a Zola’s pen. Men and women were
fiogged alike at the triangle, or at the cart’s tail.
A Botany Bay “ dozen ” was twenty-five lashes,
and as many as one thousand were often ordered
and administered. Such a sentence as this re ids
now a-days like a sentence of death by torture,
but the presiding fiends had, to some extent,
guarded against that. So we read, in the old
stories, of men who were cut to pieces from the
neck to the knees, and when all semblance of
humanity was thus crushed out of the quivering
jelly that represented the body, as the system had
long since driven the divine image out of the soul,
the victim was saturated in brine to expedite bis
recovery, so that his sentence might be completed
in a similar way. One such sentence, signed by
Judge-Advocate Atkins, John Harris, and Thomas
Jamieson, is given, with others, In the report of
Colonel Johnstone's court-martial. It bears date
1807, and sets forth that seven convicts, having
attempted to escape from the settlement, were re-
captured and brought back. They were sentenced;
one to receive 1000 lashes ; three others, 500 lashes
each; one to hard labour in an iron collar (!) in
the coal-mines at Newcastle ; and two others to
200 lashes, with three years’ hard labour. It is
not difficult to imagine the genial Judge—whom,
you will remember, certain convicts unkindly
wished to flog to death because men had died
under his floggings—joining the festive circle after
delivering this appalling sentence, and being
carried thereafter drunk to his quar. era by convio j
servants who were afraid to break the bloodthirsty
ruffian’s neck l
* * *
We get a pleasant little social picture of
the Judge-Advocate in these lines from Holt’s re-
collections. They make that excellent man live
again. He met Atkins arm In arm with Barring-
ton, the pickpocket, In Parramatta, one dav.
“Mr. Atkins asked me into his housi, and Bar-
rington followed. A bottle of rum’’—this
beverage corresponded to Amontillado and
the like in those days—“ was produced,
and some pleasant conversation passed. At
length I wished to retire, but Mr. Atkins said
he never allowed any bottle off his table till he
saw it emptied. We finished the half-gallon
bottle (!), and were, of course, not a little elevated,
being each of us as full of chatter as a hen mag-
ole in May. Mr. Atkins was not a Judge then,
but acted as a kind of deputy when Judge Bore
was not able ; which frequently happened, for
when spirits were plentiful in the colony he was
generally indisposed.” This was in 1800.
* * •
Another charming vignette is presented in
the following terse bit of description A number
of desperate creatures had been goaded into an
attempt at rebellion. They Intended to seize the
Governor and the officials, and rule the colony
themselves after disarming the soldiers. Of
course they were detected in their plot and were
duly sentenced to be flogged, under the infliction
of which some died. This Is what took place in
one instance:—“We marched to Toongabbee,
where all the Government transports were kept,
who were called out to witness the punishment cf
the prisoners. One man was sentenced to receive
300 lashes, and the method of punishment was
such as to make it moat effectual. The unfor-
tunate man had his arms extended round a tree,
so ihat flinching from the blow was out of the
ques ion, for it was impossible for him to stir.
Two men were appointed to flog -namely, Richard
Rica, a lefr-handed man, and John Johnson, the
hangman from Sydney”—one wonders how on
earth they spared him !—“ who was right-handed.
They stood on each side, and I never saw two
threshers in a barn move their flails with more
regularity than these two man-killers did, un
moved by pity, and rather enjoying their horrid
employment than otherwise. The very first
blows made the blood spout out from the man’s
shoulders; and I felt so disgusted and horriflefl
that I turned my face away from the cruel sight.
... I could only compare these wretches to a
pack of hounds at the death of a hare ; or tigers,
that torment their victims before they put them
to death."
* # •
This is such p’easant reading that we can
not do better than continue the extract. *■ I have
witnessed many horrible scenes,” this onlooker
goes on to say, “but this was the most appalling
sight I had ever seen The day was windy, and I
protest that, although I was at least 15 yards to
leeward from the sufferers, the blood, skin, and
flesh flew in my face as the executioners shook it
off from their cats. The man received his whole
300 lashes, during which Doctor Mason used to go
up to him occasionally to feel his pulse, io being
contrary to law to flog a man bey or d 50 lashes
without having a doctor present. I shall neve*
forget this humane doctor, as he smiled and said.
‘Goon; this man will tire jou both before he
falls!” During the time he was receiving the
punishment he neve’ uttered a groan; the only
words bo said were, * Flcg me fair ; do not B‘rike
me on the neck.’" The hapless wretch knew that
he might sue in vain for further mercies.
* # *
Our apology for continuing these extracts
Is found In our existing flogging laws, and the
whole spirit of our penal system. “The next
prisoner who was tied up was a young lad of
about 20 years of age ; he was also sentenced to
receive 300 lashes. The first hundred were given
on his shoulders, and he was cut to the bone be-
tween the shoulder-blades, which were both bare.
The doctor then directed the next hundred to be
inflicted lower down, which reduced his flesh to
such a jelly that the doctor ordered him to have
the remaining hundred on the calves of his legs.
During the whole time he never whimpered or
flinched, if, indeed, it had been possible for him
to have done so." This lad was asked If hewculd
give information about the alleged plot. He
answered that he did not know anything, and it
he did he would not tell. “You may bang me."
said he, “if you like; but yon shall have no
music out of my mouth to make others dance
upon nothing.” He was put into the cart and
sent to the hospital. “After this terrible execu-
tion was over,” writes the eye-witness, with an
unconscious touch that will strike the reader
with a strarge effect, “the Provost-Marshal and
I walked to Parramatta, and went to a tavern
kept by James Larra, an honest Jaw, where we
dined upon a nice lamprey and some hung beef."
Just so ! The good Provost-Marshall could not
live on floggings. He required more substantia]
refreshment. But even the bref he assimilated
happened to be hung !
* * *
There is a story of how Governor King
ordered a woman 100 lashes for using imperti-
nent language to an overseer. In 1806 the
old Sydney Gazette mentioned in a paragraph
that Margaret Camel, being an accessory to a
theft, was sentenced to be publicly whipped
through the streets of Sydney, at the cart’s-tail.
Io is Byron who says that the first sight that met
his eyes in an English town after returning from
abroad was the spectacle of a woman being
whipped through the streets at the cart's tail, and
Botany Bay was not to be left behind in such a
matter as this—not, it may believed, even if
Judge-Advocate Atkins and bis compeers had to
build a cart for the purpose themselves. In 1829
Judge Dowling sentenced a man to be flogged in
this way from the George-street Police-court to
the Market street wharf, for stealing a pair of
oars. So the popular mind was familiarised with
horrors, and children gazed on in pleased apprecia-
tion as men and women were hanged and flogged
in public for their encouragement. Thus the
natural feeling even of the young was blunted—and
thus, perhaps, it comes about that we have been
unable to see the barbarism of some of our tradi-
tionary laws, and have been content to retain
them so long.
* * *
While the flogger was busy, tne hangman
was not Idle. It is almost a farce to describe the
legal proceedings that led up to these executions,
for legal proceedings, properly so-called, there
were none. A criminal court consisted of seven
naval or military officers—the officers of the New
South Wales Corps ! To hang a man a total of
five voices was needed. The old records tell how
the proceedings were conducted. Eight men were
charged, in 1803, with stealing nine pecks of
wheat. They had been tried for something else
and acquitted, but the Court was clearly deter-
mined to have them, for they were escaped
prisoners. So the second charge was brought.
The prosecutor, as in all such matters, conducted
his own case. In this instance, the Judge-Advo-
cate, who always framed the indictment, prose-
cuted. The Court deliberated for some minutes,
and then passed Bentence~“ All guilty—death !"
That was all,
* • *
For a good many years the authoriti s
just ran up a gallows wherever they happened to
require it—on Plnohgut, for instance; Lower
George-street was a favourite convincing ground,
but afterwards, always with an eye to the pic-
turesque, the gallows was removed to a place
known to fame as Gallows HIH. The officials
liked to see a fellow creature dangling against the
sky-line. It added to the scenic effect of the
landscape. In 1804 the gallows was removed to
the corner of Park and Cast.'ereagh streets, where
the Barley Mow Hotel now stands ; this step was
probably taken in sheer disgust at the failure of
an execution on the old site. Joseph Samuels,
who was suspended in 1803. for stealing a desk
containing money, belonging to one Mary Breeze,
broke the rope in the middle the first time, unrove
it at the fastening on a second attempt, and, on a
third trial, snapped the rope once more. A hang-
man with any pride in his profession would resign
after this bungle, but the Provost Marshal
merely went to the Governor, and had the man
reprieved for his agility. An execution or a re-
prieve-sentence of life or death—never cost a
second thought to the officials of these early days.
It was not till the hanging customs were seriously
curtailed that the authorities fought to the last
gasp before they yielded up an erdng creature’s
life to the popular sentiment asking that an exe-
cution might be stayed.
• • •
Daring the first six years 95 persons were
hanged. In a small population decimated by sick-
ness and famine, this was a highly encouraging
average. But to authentic record—what a hor-
rible chapter of miseries this blank space must
cover! —weskejtof the executiots up to 1825,
In August, 1821, 19 men were hanged together in
Lower George-street, to which place the gallows
had been moved back from the sand-hills
behind the new Barracks. Just be'ore that it
stood at the corner of the Protestant burial
ground in Devonshire-street; and still earlier,
and after leaving the site of the present Barley
Mow Hotel, it was erected near the site of the
present Barker's Mills, in Sussex street. The first
execution at the gate of Dariinghursb Gaol to k
place in 1841.
• * *
Why is this record of the banging and
flogging customs of the early days revived it
may bo asked ; and why should public sentiment
be outraged by the revival of such memories?
Simply because such record explains the genesis
of our own existing Australian customs; and be-
cause the people who can stand those will stand
anything that may be said on this or any other
subject.


TRY THE BRIGHT AND BEAUTIFUL NEW
SHIPMENT
Of the famous St. Louis Lager Beer. It's like the
electric light—makes everything bright and
beautiful. The intellect is clear, the mind bright,
the thoughts regular. With all those who only
indulge in that famous beverage it is the house-
hold word in the hajpy homes. It’s not the
drunkard s drink, but the sensible and common
sense. Try it, and you will never have any other
Lager Beer unless your common sense leaves you.*
Messrs. Hookings and Co., wine mer-
chants, have moved to new premises at No. tio
George-slreet, Sydney (near King-street Arcade),
where their large stock of choice old wines is
offered to a drought-stricken nation. They have
also added a new evidence of civilisation in the
shape c f a retail bodega, where wine is dispensed
by the bottle or glass, which Is about the best
mode of celebrating a centenary that we know
of.*
To those of our readers who have a taste
for music this paragraph will be of special in-
terest. Mr. Slmonsen of the Musical Direct
Supply Association, George-street, frydney, is pre-
pared to furnish musical instruments of all kinds,
from a grand church organ, down through all the
gradations of pianos (grand, square, or upright),
harmoniums, violins, violas, tenors, ’celloes,
doub.'e bass, banjos, guitars, mandolins, dul-
cimers, seolian harps, Somersetshire bells, all
descriptions of brass and reed instruments,
drum-and-flfe band instruments, accordeons,
concertinas (Anglo-German, chromatic scale)’,
English concertinas, professional and amateur
minstrel outfits, bones, tambo wigs, and all other
articles used in the profession. Fittings for any
instrument made. Mr. Slmcnsen’s long experience
in the musical instrument line is a guarantee that
none hue the best work from first-class makers is
kept In stock. A speciality of this house is
the country business, which has grown
to a large extent since its es f ablishment,
as many who live at a distance from Sydney in
this and adjolnicg colonies ard who have
had transactions with the Musical Instru-
ment Direct Supply Association can attest.
Australians, whose musical souls direct them
to acquire this most fascinating art, should call
and see—or write to—Mr, Simonsen, who will
give them a courteous hearing, and adviso them
as to what they require,*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal— " Robinson Crusoe ’• 19-
Criterion Theatre.— 1 " Little Jaok Sheppard »
Her Majesty’s Theatre.— In The Ranks
Opera House- All Star Novelty Combination
Alhambra Music Hall— Sacred Concert >
Alhambra Music Hall— Minstrelsy ... ••
There are one or two new features in
Frank Clark’s show at Sydney Opera House.
Among them may be mentioned Franks own
Homr “ The True Born Irishman," which is more
asinine than the combined stupidity of a police-
man a politician, and a rum-seller, and maybe
briefly summed up as a bumpy melody without
sense. Frank calmly blasts this hunk of rhyme
out of himself every night for the purpose of
showing that all respectable Irishmen love the
Queen above all things, and like to feed on pota-
toes and buttermilk in order to support her uncle
who skedaddled in tears at the Alma, and all the
rest of her relatives, and the relatives of her rela-
tives down to the pawnbroker’s descendant,
Battenberg and his baby; also that England is
the best friend the Emerald Isle ever possessed.
But the odds against Frank are too great, and 600
vears of history cannot be wiped out by a ghastly
anthem and a man pounding a piano. Sylvo,
another new attraction, is a greater success. He
is a conjurer who seems to have sold his soul to
the Prince of Darkness in exchange for the
power of leaving 12 bricks standing in a row
in the air while he picks out three from the
middle and throws them away, and then he grabs
the other nine before they have time to fall.
Sometimes he varies this amusement by leaving
the bricks in the air while he gees away for some
more, and they are still there when he comes
back He is also qualified to throw a bottle up to
the roof and catch it neck downwards on the edge
of a plate where it remains balanced, ana he can
keep six half-crowns tearing round the perpen-
dicular sides of six dishes, each without a bottom,
which is sufficient proof that he is possessed of
15s all at ovee. When the Professor has thus
shown conclusively what an ass Newton was, and
demonstrated by 12 bricks the utter emptiness of
the theory which that alleged scientist based upon
one moth-eaten apple, he retires to make way for
Mdle. Garetta and her pigeons, and Ouda com-
pletes the proceedings by walking head down-
wards on the roof.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) George Rig-
nold is still “In the Banks," and doesn’t seem
able to get out. “Jack Sheppard ” burgles in
tights as before, at the Criterion, and Mr. Dam-
pier pounds away at his great success. The
World against Her.” Also the Royal Pantomime
continues to pant, and at the Alhambra there Is a
new and gaudy attraction in the shape of a gentle-
manly dead foreigner named Ali, whose innards
are made of timber, but who can play cards and
lift sacks of potatoes j ust like a white man. In his
own sphere, Ali is an honourable member of society,
and he can do everything which is required of a
citizen except stand at a street corner and use
cuss vocabulary at the passers-by. He knows a
lot more than the new statue of the Queen, any-
how.
** * *
Bondi Aquarium keeps as crowded as the
interior of a city father after a Municipal banquet.
Everything is lovely, from the ticket-taker to the
penny buns, and the only blot upon the perfect
contour of the beauteous whole (this style, two-
and six) is a case of false teeth in grinning gums
which mock at you from a landing. They remind
the festive pleasure seeker of the dentist's chair
and the first tug—and all sorts of unpleasant by-
gones that once made existence seem as hollow as
the voice of the stone-broke bard.
** * *
“ Missing at Lloyd’s ’’—a howling drama
of the sad salt waves, showing how ships are
sent right under to get at the underwriters—
started to fill the scuttle at Melbourne Opera
House last fcaturday night—
“ Missing at Lloyd’s! " Ah ! what narratives
tragical
Can one recall at the sight of that line _
Crazy vessels and crews, with celerity magical,
Sunk in the ocean to pickle in brine.
The land-lubber’s lines are cast rather more
pleasantly.
His superior craft any danger avoids
‘ Missing on ’Change,” he pats up again pre-
sently —
Lord help the vessel that’s “ Missing at Lloyd’s 1”
Having thus vented our emotion we are left in
a weak state, and must give this pathetic show a
rest for some days. Other Melbourne theatres
are making money, and keeping the even tenners
of their way. The Triumvirate are blazing away
from both barrels. If they miss their poor
pigeon with the Pantomime they bring him to
grass with “ Erminie,” and rejoice in full bags
all the time. There is nothing to say about
“ Sophia." except that Tom Jones grows more
gloomy under misfortune. Also that his style of
castigating the funeral Blifll wouldn’t make an
impression on a pat of butter,
** * *
Coghill Bros, and the Silk Unmention-
ables are humming with the ardour of the blow-
fly who has dark designs on your Sunday dinner,
but the songs of Mr. Simonsen’s Italians awake
the startled atmosphere no more. They finished
with a magnificent spurt, their last week at the
Alexandra being one of the best of the whole
tour.
** * *
Sarah Bernhardt ia getting it rather
rough in Prance on account of her acting as “La
Tosca," A Parisian writer says
No wonder Sarah has fallen so desperately in love with her
part, for not only dees it give her an opportunity to rant,
rave, storm, and gesticulate, but it enables her also to in-
dulge her fancy for the horrible to an almost sickening ex-
tent. For instance, after wallowing deep in property gore,
which she has caused to flow from the breast of a vindictive
villain, she coolly wipes the blood off her lean, fantastic
lingers with a serviette, paws the body about, and dresses it
up with candles and crosses as if it were the corpse of an in-
nocent child, instead of that of a justly, though foully, mur-
dered blackguard. Such by-play cannot but seem over
stretched and long drawn-out, but it ia so like Sarah you
know—so very like.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, the dark and hazy
villainy of “ Firat Class ” has quite “ caught on,”
and the audiences have been large and enthu-
siastic. The vile machinations of the different
villains and the efforts of the good young man to
bring matters to a satisfactory conclusion, prin-
cipally for his own boneflt, are watched with
eager interest. Mr. B. N. Jones, as Dan, gives a
powerful piece of character acting, and Miss
Norris has made quite a study of Peggy, and Mr,
Flemming represents the virtuous youth with
proper feeling. Messrs. Deering, Hambro, Rus-
sell, Miss Watt-Tanner, and others combine to
make the drama a success. The audiences at
Tommy Hudson's show are still large, and with a
view to keeping up his reputation, the popular
Tommy has gone to Melbourne in search of fresh
talent.
** # *
Jenny Lind’s husband hasn’t any hair on
the top of his head. A young man from the back-
woods brought his best girl in to see the Italian
opera, and tbey both sat in a dazed condition
while the tenor screamed his life out on the raging
C. Then he asked her how she liked it, and she
slowly opened a great gulf in her countenance
and said, “ Well, I’m hogged.” A phrase never
met with in a Sydney dramatic report—“sup-
ported by the full strength of the company."
Signor basso-profundo De Alba, who has been so
long gladdening Australian audiences with his
double D has resolved to stay in Melbourne. He
is going to marry a photographic business
with a lady attached. Henry Irving has
paid in £6OO to the Ward Beecher Statue Fund.
Beecher used to invite Ellen Terry and him to
dinner. Irving’s real name, by-the-bye, is John
Broadribb Probably Ellen’s genuine cognomen
is Martha Ramsbotham, if the world only knew
it. American papers say that unless Ellen, Sara
Bernhardt, and Modjeska brace up and get some
better clothes Mrs. Potter will wipe them all out.
Modjeska especially. The latter lady wears a
frock with a mark on the front where she dropped
a jam-tart on it, and the audiences don’t
like that. James MacMahon has returned to
Sydney, after dragging the “ Mikado " through
the uttermost parts of Queensland. The latest
excitement in Newcastle (Eng.) is a ballet-girl
with spectacles. She is new at the work, and
being rather bashful she declines to take them
off, though she has taken off nearly everything
else. When Mrs. Langtry dies from slow poison
on the stage, she sinks into a chair, and then she
and the chair go over backwards together. This
is a great success ; but the next actress who tries
to make a sensation in deaths will have to lie on a
table, and then go back with the table on top of
her. Armes Beaumont, the popular operatic tenor, is
the son of a Welshman, who practised as a
veterinary surgeon in Melbourne 30 years ago. In
1866 the recent W. S. Lyster took Beaumont out
shooting and shot him in the left eye. He hasn’t
A HOTEL SKETCH.
LORD CARNARVON AT BREAKFAST.
CHORUS OF JEWS: “HE’S A-EATING A HEGG!"
been able to see much since. Sara Bernhardt can
stand on her head. Mrs. Towers, mother of Miss
Rosie Towers, the operatic artist who played a
dramatic season at Sydney Gaiety, some years
ago, died recently at Whorp (India) after 12
months Illness.
Mr. Gibbes, M.L.A. for Newtown
(N.S.W.), ia dead.
At Warragul (Vic.) a man was nearly
killed through being bitten by half a snake. He
was fooling with the wrong half.
Another shingle off the roof. On the
motion of Mr. Monk the sum of £lOOO, set down in
the N.Z. estimates, as a contribution to the
Imperial Destitute, was struck out.
M. Pasteur recommends the introduction
of chicken cholera as the only certain cure for the
rabbit plague. For our own part, we regard hog
influenza as more certain and more rapid In its
action, but there might possibly be a danger of it
spreading among politicians.
In an insane moment, some time ago, the
Melbourne Herald devoted a little article to the
necessity of making religion more amusing. The
new movement however, doesn’t seem to have
made much progress yet, and we would suggest
that it is about time the Herald was giving the
subject a fresh boost.
The Forbes (N.S.W.) Gazette contains
the following little thing, which somebody has
dashed off■
M’Donnkll December 17th, at Forbes, N.S.W , the wife
of B. P. H’Donnell, J P., L R.C.5.1., L.M., L.K.Q.C.P.
1., of a son.
We give this little free “ad.” cheerfully and
gratefully. We don’t ourselves tear the sick and
disjointed alphabst in anguish after our brief
though momentous cognomen, bub we respect
those who are better off than ourselves in this
respect, and are always happy to give them a
lift with their swag of distinctions when we meet
them on the dusty roads of this mortal existence.
A Melbourne suburban policeman made
an awful blunder the other night, over which he
is still weeping. A fashionably-dressed, but
eccentric kind of woman accosted him in the
street at 11.15 one night and asked him if the last
'bus had gone to Melbourne. “ Oh, shure now,”
sez he, “it’s not the ’bus you want at all, me
jewel. I know what yer little game is." The
eccentric lady, who was also excitable, let fly
at the copper, and slanged him in such forcible
fashion that he ran her In for “insulting beha-
viour." When she had got to the lock-up, she
requested that her husband should be sent for to
bail her out. “ Oh, yer husband, is it?" sneered
the arresting bobby. “Av course yer a respect-
able married woman, ain’t ye ? Yez all are. An’
who’s yer old man, now?” “Inspector ,”
replied the fair one, quietly. Constable Fogarty’s
jaw dropped, and he looked awful sick like. The
Inspector wt s soon upon the scene with thus der
in his voice and lightning in his eye
Fogarty has applied to he removed to the Kelly
country, or anywhere where he can end his days
peaceably.
Some recent Baptist escapades in N.S.W.,
which will not be further described at present,
help to remind us of a bright, pleasing little
Incident which transpired just outside a small
township in Gippsland (Vic), about two years
ago, A long-haired prophet, who had failed
ignominiously as a sewing-machine agent in and
about Melbourne, struck that rural settlement,
and, pitching his gospel tent, started to preach
baptism with all the latest improvements, and a
few fancy flourishes of his own. The pastoral
population was fairly aching for some excitement,
and, being nowise particular whether it came in
the form of a religious revival, a pugilistic
encounter, or a horse race, patronised the enter-
prising crusader, and duly appreciated his
realistic description of the flaming Hades, pre-
pared for all who scoffed at his new and improved
creed. But they would not convert worth a
hang, and, though his offer to cleanse the cattle-
duffer or horse-thief of his besetting sins,
by immersing him twice in Cow Creek for a
guinea fee was deemed reasonably cheap, nobody
stood out to risk the experiment. Consequently
the revival began to languish after a week or so.
Feeling that something must be done to create
Interest, enliven business, and Increase donations,
the Prophet lowered his charges to ten shillicgs
per baptism, children under 12, half-price; but
still the receipts could be easily shifted without
the assistance of a steam crane, and the evan-
gelist was not content. Suddenly, however, great
enthusiasm was created by the announcement
that Peterson’s Tot had been born again, and was
going to be dipped. Peterson’s Tot was the
daughter of A. Peterson, settler, and the young
lady had an enviable reputation for her talents e s
a wood jamber, scrub-cutter, spud-digger, fencer,
and equestrienne. Also, she could climb trees to
any extent, and swear like the nether Sheol, and
she was the last person the neighbours expected
to be turned from the wrath to come. Tot
was at the next meeting sitting by the Pro-
phet, looking sulkily penitent. She was not
beautiful; in fact, she was raw-boned, stub-nosed,
and shcck-headed, and cged about 16, The dip-
ping process was fixed for the following Sunday
afternoon, and a large concourse gathered on the
banks of Cow Creek at the appointed time. Tot
appeared on the scene, bare footed, and in a robe
of spotless white, and the Professor was looking
more holy than ordinary. He rolled up his pants,
and prepared for the frav. Taking his station on
a sunken log, he stocd the peni' ent before him in
the water, and proceeded to call down grace. In
the midst of bis oration, however. Tot’s face was
observed to become clouded with an expretsion of
anguish, and, suddenly breaking away from the
Prophet, with a howl of pain, she scrambled out
of the creek, and up the bank, landing, as she d<d
so, a fine mud-eel, which had taken a grip of her
toe, and appeared prepared to submit to any in-
convenience rather than part with its prize.
Tot rolled upon the grass and yellel,
and, taking a long breath, she fired off
a list of swear words which Instantly
wrecked the solemnity of the scene past ell re-
covery. Then the prophet remonstrated, and,
after about twelve tries, he hauled off the eel,
and besought the sufferer to come back into the
fountain. But the penitent ia her white
garment, rolled over and over on t e bank, and,
amid wails of anguish, screamed out: “’You be
d d, ye old riogtail! If y’ want me to get into
that infernal blank dash water again, you’ll have
to make it thirty bob. So there !’ ihe Baptist
cast one look of sad reproach upon her and left,
and the converted one retreated, howling and
swearing, to get into her clothes, and go back to
her old, unregeuexate existence.
A SunsAt Fantasy.
Spell bound by a sweet fantasy
At evenglow I stand
Beside a strange sardonyx sea
That rings a sunset land.
The rich lights fade out one by one,
Like to a peony
And drowned in wine, the round red sun
Sinks down in that strange sea.
With red clouds has he chapl6ted
His brows, like him who tied
Of old a rose-wreath round his head,
And drank to Death, and died.
His wake across the ocean-floor
In a long glory lies.
Like a gold wave-way to the shore
Of some sea-paradise.
My dream flies after him, and I
Am in another land;
The sun feta in another sky,
And we sit hand in hand.
Grey eyes look into mine ; such eyes
I think the angels' are—
Soft as the soft light in the skies,
When shines the morning star.
And tremulous as dawn when thin
Gold lights begin to glow,
Revealing the bright soul within
As dawn the sun below.
Eo, hand in hand, we watch the sun
Burn down the Western deeps,
Dreaming a charmed dream, as one
Who in enchantment sleeps.
A dream of how we twain some day,
Careless of map or chart.
Will both take ship and sail away
Into the sunset’s heart.
Our ship shall be cf sandal built,
Like ships in old-world tales,
Carven with cunning art and giit,
And winged with scented sails
Of silver-silk, whereon the rod
Great gladioli burn,
A rainbow-flag at her mast-head,
A rose-flag at her stern.
And, perching on the point above
Wherefrom the pennon blows,
The figure of a flying dove,
And in her beak a rose.
And from the fading land the breeze
Shall bring us, blowing low,
Old odours and old memories,
And airs of long ago—
A melody that has no words
Which are of speech a part,
Yet touching all the deepest chorda
That tremble in the heart.
A scented song blown oversea,
As though, from bow’rs of bloom,
A wind-harp in a lilac-tree
Breathed music and perfume.
And we, no more with longings pale.
Will hearken to its blow—
I, in the shadow of the sail,
You, in the sunset glow.
For, with the fading land, our fond
Old fears shall all fade out,
Paled by the light from shores beyond
The dread of Death or Doubt.
And when Death from a cloud above
His awful shadow flings,
The Spirit of Immortal Love
Will shield us with his wings.
He is the Lord of dreams divine,
And lures us with his smiles
Along the splendour opaline
Unto the Blessed Isles.
A Townsville (Q.) philanthropist, who
always comes down handsomely in time of need,
recently presented a black gin up there with a
bustle. The lady looked over the instrument for
some lime in order to get the hang of it, and then
tied it round her neck with the roots hanging
down her back. Finally she planted her picca-
ninny comfortably on the new perch, and when
last seen she was strolling down the main street
singing “ Gore save’long a grashy Queen.”


A lunatic died in London recently without
an heir of any soil, and his £20,000 worth ot
“ proputty” went to that lovely mjth the State-
Just see that. Only for want of a relation to
claim it, too I And yet lots of people obviously
related to the deceased call and see us every dav'
Peper
And
Salt
Things are not what they used to be.
Men don’t believe in a devil any longer, and they
are weak on a good many other institutions which
reflected credit on the noble past. Man-highly
civilised man, we mean —in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury is a hazy, nonchalant animal, who wants life
greased for him that he may slide through it more
easily, and he is as calm and composed as a
monarch on washing day; and now uncivilised
ig beginning to follow the example of his
elevated brother, and doesn’t get up before day-
break to bang hia fellow-creatures about on an
empty stomach as he used to do. As an example
of this, we quote the case of a Maori who recently
resided at Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.). He was an edu-
cated and affluent potato-coloured party, and was
descended from a warlike gentleman with a big
club, who seldom washed himself. He himself
had no club and
wore clothes, and he
fell In love with the
pretty wife of a
neighbouring set-
tler. His ancestor
would have eaten
the settler, and car-
ried off the lady on
his back, but this
degenerate son of a
decaj ed race wasn't
equal to such tn
exertion. He simply
loafed down to the
house when the old
man was ont chat ir g
a spotted cow, and
asked his love if she
would feel incHred
—aw —to ahem —
fly with him, and
leave that horrid
individual with the
big boots to—aw—
follow his own agri-
cultural instincts,
and the lady said
that she supposed
she might as well.
The native had
brought his shirts
with him on the off-
chance that she
might consent, and
she packed up her
things, and they
slowly and calmly
eloped in a cart to
the rail way stat ion
where they sat down
to wait for the
train. They were
so deliberate over
It that it took them
three quarters of an
hour to elope half-
a-mlle, and as the
old man chased them
in another cirt at
the rate of 880 yards
In 40 minu'es it
naturally followed
that he caught up
to them at the sta-
tion. The lady was
sitting with her feet
on a bonnet box,
and the Maori was
slowly, sadly yawn-
ing betide her. They
lookedat I he old man
when he came in. He
looked at them.
Nobody spoke.
Everybody was as
calm as a funeral.
Then he gently
humped his wife’s
things and the
Maori’s shirts and
umbrella into tbe
cart and drove away
with them. After
this there was a
pause of an hour
and a half, during
which everybody
conld hear himself
think, and at the
end of that time the
Maori came slowly
along and called on
the farmer. He said
that he had been —
aw —placed in a
demned unpleasant
position* It was impossible for him to elope
without his umbrella—quite impossible. He
hid therefore called for the aboriginal
gamp. He also regarded it as inconsider-
ate on the farmer’s part to take his
—not to put too fine a point upon it — aw —shirts.
Conld a follow fly without shirts? Now, really,
could he ? P’raps the white gentleman might feel
Inclined to return the —aw —shirts. Shirts,
dontyeknow ! The lady, too, hadn’t any things.
It was doocad awkward for a lady to elope
without any things. He hai a cart at the door,
and p’raps the farmer wouldn’t mind lifting the
boxes into it. He wouldn't have troubled him,
only lifting boxes made him—aw —perspire.
And then he sat down exhaustedly in a chair, and
tailed off into silence. The two men looked at
each other for a while. Finally the farmer
struggled to his feet, and moved the boxes into
the cart, and for the second time the Maori
eloped down the street at a walking pane. He
reached the station in safety, and about four
hours later a slow train came along and carried
him and his love away to the happiness which
lay beyond. And yet there was a time when the
same deliberate individual's ancestors would run
18 miles to steal a pig. and you couldn’t, sea their
legs for the dust which they kicked up behind
them as they split the atmosphere. What a
falling-off is there!
* • *
Somewhere in the vicinity of Ooonamble
(N.8.W.) dwells an animated poem in the shape
of a man with one ear. The other one was lost in
the course of a happy drunk many years ago, but
who took it remains a mystery, and, until the
earth yawns and that ear comes out on the Jndg-
mont Day and hitches itself on to the head of the
former owner, the murky ferocity of its chawing-
off is likely to continue unsolved Bn*) the ex
proprietor of the organ worries himself very little
about his loss. Providence has showared upon
him wealth enough to buy palaces in slithers,
and twice a month he gets tearing drunk, and
m ikes the welkin ring His family tried for a
waile to break him of this habit by hiring a cheap
teetotaller to keep his watery eye on the old man,
and at first the scheme promised well. When the
t j taring parant came home with a dozen bottles
of rum and looked himself in his badroora, it was
the duty of the melancholy water-drinker to burst
In and wrest them from him, and put him to bed,
and thus many a promising drums was cut off in
the flower of its youth, and there were 18 free
fights, in each of which the man with the one ear
was defeated. But at last the day of
vengeance dawned. The squatter was in his bed-
room with a whole ca r go of bottles, and the tee-
tota ier was impotently raving for admittance.
Ti era was a chest of drawers against the door,
and behind it the old man was drinking the
hea th of his water-keg enemy, and uttering im-
becile cheers. His solitary ear was bright red,
and he was obviously in a state of great excite-
ment. Presently the racket at the door died
away, and then suddenly there ensued a shuffling
in the chimney, and the abstainer shot down
amid a cloud of soot, and stood sneezing on the
floor. The next moment a gun was pointed at
his head, and behind it stood an old man with
one ear who looked careless enough to let it off ao
any moment. “ Spose we make a night of it,"
JfUne' dj f<l/ ; o>{)\0 >{) \ ~ Ttj f IjiSjo Y<4 f j
’’ g f ,~ v
hfy ty
L\*s.- £|«W J
/Jy f 1 ] (M 7^*
'%'f -
PAST AND PRESENT.
GHOST OF CAPTAIN FHILLIP (log): “ I’m so
glad to see that you stick to our good
old customs !”
he said pleasantly; “ there’s a bottle for you.
Whoop 1 Drink you mouldy son of a water-cart
Hooray ! Drink, pretty creature — hie— drink, or
I’ll blow your Rechabite head off I’’ Tbs teeto-
taller's knees knocked together, and with oae eye
on the gun he slowly poured out a glass. “Lesh
be jolly good fellows,’’ said the one-eared man
affably. “ Lssh make a night of it. We won’t
go ’ome till mornlngsh. till daylight —drink, you
melancholy old bullwhacker. It's the best castor-
oil I could get in ths town. I thought p’raps
you’d drop in.” And he drank. All that night
there was a loud, weird orgy in the bedroom, and
borne upon the midnight breeze came the
whoops of a bacchmallan squatter and the groans
and abjeot supplications of a tsetotaUer who was
wading Into his third bottle of castor-oil. The
old man sang wild ditties, and the Band of Hoper
retched in chorus The squatter cheered for the
Queen .and all the Royal Family, and his miserable
victim wailed under compulsion in a minor
oa«tor-01l key. Then the inebriate turned somer-
saults, and the man who was full of medicine had
to follow suit, and flnaTy they both settled down
to profanity, the commander of the establishment
swearing cheerfully a*i everything and everybody
in his shirt, sitting astride of the bed-post, while
the wilted Christian hung doubled up across the
towel-rack with his head on the floor, and blas-
phemed feebly to appease his undressed tyrant
Outside the door, meanwhile, three girls wept
and wrung their hands with horror at the way pa
was going on, and at last, when the noise died
away, they succeeded In bursting their way in,
and, lighting a candle, viewed the scene. Their
parent and the gun were in bed, and in the wash
stand lay an abjeot wreok whioh had once been a
teetotaller. They shook him up. and he opened
his eyes and inquired, with a moan, it there was
any castor oil in hell- and if Satan had only one
ear. Then he went out of the apartment on all
fours, and, after resigning his billet, he made an
attempt! to stand and fell down the stair.
• * •
The age of chivalry is past, or otherwise
the mail clad knights of Victoria would call for
their battle-axes and lay a certain Melbourne
bobby in blood at their feet. Tnls miserable
caitiff brought Louisa Wright before the Prahran
Binch on a charge of “insulting behaviour to-
wards a young man named Murphy.” The charge
ran as follows :— I That the said Louisa Wright did,
on Christmas morning, dress herself up in tights
and call the attention of said Murphy to her fine
limbs, out on the footpath in Chomley-street.”
Louisa, evidently, is the sole support of an aged
mother and paralysed papa Every n'ght she
patiently trudges her weary way to the theayter,
to earn a modest pittance as a chorus maiden.
And when her little part is played, she wriggles
out of the tights, slips on her old bro wn merino
gown, and trudges back to poor mother, who has
been sitting up for her only daughter. Loo,
maybe, was provided with new tights for the
holiday engigement, and sle felt an innocent
pleasure in showing Murphy—a chance passer-by
—how bountifully Nature had endowed her with
the means of procuring the family’s daily bread
For the sake of our vaunted Christianity, it is
satisfactory to fled that the Binch promptly dis-
charged Louisa. The Chairman looked steadily
Murphy and enquired, “Did the fact of her
tiuK you to look at her ghts insult you 1 lo
lich Murphy replied, No.” The Bulletin
lleves him from the bottom of ita soul!
Thera are a good many things that may 1
happen to a man in Queensland, and a new-ohum
at Rockhampton seems to have found this out. A
few months ago he was shot out, an unprotected
stronger, In that city of sin, Chinamen, and suffo-
cation, and after a long search for employment he
was hired by a kanaka at wages just about suffi-
cient to keep him in shirts. Apparently working
for a nigger prayed on hi 3 mind and demoralised 1
him, for he gob drunk and tried to whale a
Chinkie man and gob ignominiously licked. Then
he went gold digging, but the first time he stopped
to rest he fell do wn another it an s shaft and was 1
nearly killed. Also, he fell on top of the other
man and nearly killed him, and when the pair
cime out of the hospital the undermost digger
solemnly warned him that it wasn’t) safe to have’
such galoots in the vicinity, and forbade him ever
again to approach within ten miles of his claim
under pain of biing assaulted with a spade. After
this the new-ohum undertook the charge of a new--
fangled machine in a sawmill, and the second day'
the maohlce lifted him up by the hair and dropped 1
him when the hair came out, in consequence of
which he was Induced to send In his resignation.
A Chinese syndicate which was endeavouring to 1
establish a corner in Tasmanian apples, shortly
afterwards engaged him to more all the bad 1
apples to the bottom of the casks and put the
good ones on top, but when he applied to'
the secretary of the company for his silary,
that Chow referred him to the manager, who’
passed him on to the accountant, wno was under'
the influence of opium and told him to go to the
auditor, who said ‘*No savee, ’ and recommended
him to call on the cashier, which latter official'
had him run in for assaulr, and got him 21datSi,-
When he came out the police warned him to quit ■
the town and he wardered up the and ulti-
mately camped for the night on the water’s edge,
whence he was yanked in by aa alligator and lost'
to view. At least, this is the popular theory, fi r
all that was found next day was his deserted I
camp and naa’ks of a sudden slide into the water,.
complicated by the footprints of 1 a huge reptile
with a scaly tail All flesh is grass.
•
The annual epidemic of typhoid fever is'
raging in Melbourne and suburbs We print, per
kind favour of a ho pital nurse, the versifiedi
ravlrga of a delirious patient:
Those Melbourne dr——
(The poor wretch had, got thisfairwith fils'* poaifti
when Death brought him reliefifr.om-.hi8 sufferings.
Nurse took the precaution to.digjafeet his. man.v-
script before sending: it. along.),
* * *
The scene of this story lies- In the aombre
wilds of Potts Point. It was tho- evening of
washing day, and In the back yard hung a long
line of white garpients with embroidery and other
fixings round the tall the sort of things that a
man couldn’t get into without splitting.them all
up. In the front garden a man was dancing with
rage under a tree and shaking his fist at a window.
He was engaged to a dainty creature inside whose
clothes filled eight large trunks, and he believed
that she was in the sitting-room on the second
floor carrying on with the o her fellow, and that
her views towards him didn't censisb as they
should. Consequently he was dancing and grit-
ting his teeth in a plug hat ut der a tree, and
planning how he could bowl them out. At last
an idea struck him. He shinned up the tree and
gob in range of the window, and then from bis
seat on a knobby branch with a caterpillar crawl-
ing down his tack, he ascertained that his gbl
wna alone, alter all, and, with a s’g’i of thankful-
ness, he slid down again. At least he slid hal'-
way down, and then there came a thoughtful
“wuff” underneath, and he ascertained mat a
dog, bigger than any three doga had a right to be,
was pining for his legs. He hung on then,
and dug his feet Into the bark, and said
plaintively, ‘ Paw doggie I paw beggah!” The
dog frothed at this, and he fled up the tree again.
This time he got as high as the girl s bedroom
and he f pent two weary hours watching her
shadow on the blind as she went to bed, while the
dog sat patiently beneath. When he fancied that
it had got tired and gone away, he started to go
down again, bub tbe cauine tried to get up to
meet him, and he retired ; he tried again, end got
near enough to plant his foot in the animal’s eye,
but the results were so awiul that he tore up
among the branches like a seraph climbing the
golden stairs. He threw curves, carefully culled
from tho great garden of profanity, at the beast,
and it only smiled back at him. Then he fell
asleep, with his tall hat squashed against a
branch, and dreamt that he was sitting in evening
dress on the top of a bnl 1-dog ant. Morning
found him still there, and it was only when the
sun had fairly risen that ho awoke to ascertain
that his lady-love was gsz’ng at him from the
window, av d his own dog lying placidly beneath.
He smiled a wasted, frozen smile at tho girl, and
she smiled back with a superoi ious air and then
slowly and iheumatioally he crawled down. She
heard him devoting the deg which was as large
as a horse, to all tho infernal geda below, and
telling him to go down and bark at tho lest souls,
ar d then he got over the fence, and his crushed
hat vanished down the road. He was never seen
or heard of again.
To MURPHY.
Insult you, Murphy ! We shoald smile—
When such a gem as Loo,
Got up in that becoming style,
Displayed herself to you ;
No doubt you thought Louisa Wright s
Fair form looked beautiful in tights.
She merely gave a pleasing proof—
You lucky, lucky gent! -
Of how her limbs for opr a houffe
By Providence were meant
(Some chorus girls with “ perfect frights ’’
Would like to have Louisa Wright’s).
Though Envy’s rampant, as we know—
A lot of skinny dames
Will vote Louisa’s conduct low
And call her cruel names
(Insulted one would be, to rights
At seeing such as they in tights).
But Murphy, dear, you didn’t blush
A rosy, burning red—
You didn’t to your mother rush,
And hide your little head ;
Each son of Adam e’er delights
In figures like Louisa Wright’s.
Consult the dude of tender years,
The swell of middle age,
The grandpapa who feebly leers
At fail ie» on the stage—
And they will say no earthly sights
Compare with pretty maids in tights.
Folks write of “ human forms divine ”
In gushing terms, but then
They do rot mean the “ dem’d outline
Pertaining to us men ;■
The gi dy author as he writes
Is dreaming of Louise in tights.
And why the deuce they ran her in
Is more than we can tell ;
Does woman, then, commit a sin
By very wed ?
(The poet who this screed Indites
Would like to see ’em all In tights.—Ed. B.)
We know a maiden young and fair
(Her name Is—never mind),
’Tis bliss Indeed to see her wear
A costume bunched behind ;
Yet oft in one of Fancy’s flights,
We think we see her wearing tights.
THOSE MELBOURNE DRAINS.
Those Melbourne drains ! their odoursdread I
Are poison to the worm ;
Men pass them with averted head
And stop a while, to squirm ;
For, well they know, therefrom Is bred I
Tne merry Typhoid Germ.
The Melbourne streets are fine, and broad 1
Nor destitute of trees
They much delight the travelling lord/,
Who wonders when he sees
Such splendour in his walks abroad,
(Each local print agrees).'
The drains are broad and fine as weir,.
That run adown those streets ;,
At every step a deathly smell,
Mao’s nasal organ greets.
And there fhe Germs of Tj phoid'dwell,'
(This chap his lines repeats. —Ed. B.) ■
The Germs are clustered on the ground,.
And riding on the breeze ;
In mult tudes those Germs are found
Oo chimney pots and trees ;
And with the summer time comes round
Preventible disease.
I smell the drain! I sure 1 the drain !
To day so foul and dry—
To-morrow, filled with poisoned rain;*
Still foul, but running high ;
The summer will come round again.'.
And sturdy men will die.


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Roixkb Flour It is made in ths colony from
the best colonial .vheat by the newest patented machinery,
"the quality is exceptionally good, and the price vertf low.*
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, beat Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It Is the greatest success of the
age.*
THAT YARRABRI STEER.
A QUEENSLAND IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I letb the selection one morning quite early,
with a purpose I mean very soon to make
nothing for days but some damper and
taties, and that sort of tucker soon makes you
feel queer. , . . ~ . ,
I’d tried every way, done my level best, aided, by
strong perseverance, from debt off to sheer,
But luck was against me, and, goaded by hunger,
I determined to slaughter a Yarrabri steer.
I left the old woman well-nigh broken-hearted,
the children’s wan faces looked withered and
And°*by Q 1 even now, I’ve a hard job to
swallow when I think of their rags and their
limbs blue and cold.
To bring helpless things to a world where there s
plenty, yet, try as you may, it’s the same, year
by year—
Hunger gnawing the vitals till sheer desperation
spurs men on to do that which oft lands ’em
here.
The Yarrabri run was a stunner, believe me, and
bossed by a Scotchman named Sandy M Turk,
A hard-headed, close-fisted cove. I can tel ye,
who prayed out like blazes in Yarrabri kirk.
He cheated the hands right and left of their
wages, an’ rations, and even their every-day
He cheated me, too-but that we’ll let
this yarn is about that dashed Yarrabri stee*.
I shouldered my gun, stuck my knife in my belt,
not without some queer qualms which I tried
to keep down j ~ , IJlra
But the very last remnant of doubt fled like
smoke, at the look in the eyes that were
turned to my own— , „ . ~ ,
Eyes that ought to have beamed full of mischief
and fan, of a laughter that gladdens a parent
Were*flUed with a glare of mad, wolfish longing;
With brain all ablaze I went for that steer.
The sun shone his brightest, the birds sang their
sweetest, and everything seemed at its best
eV ery w&y,
And I thought with a pang, that ’ud best suit a
woman, of what might have been if good luck
had held sway ; , . , t . . ~ ,
But the thought of the look I had just left behind
me drove everything else from my mind far
and near,
I rode like a red-shank, o’er gullies and moun-
tains, till I came to the run of that Yarrabri
steer.
1 soon spied the mob coming down to the water,
and, spotting my quarry, my heart gave a
thud; ... ~
1 had noted him often, a fine rising four-year-old,
with hide like a racehorse, and fat, fat as mud.
As they came down the hill, with a thud and a
bellow, the knowing old stagers hung back in
the rear.
A shot—then a scamper, a roar, then a gurgle,
and the ground is all red round the Yarrabri
steer.
Out comes my knife from its sheath, quick as
lightning, no time to be lost by quibble or
quirk.
Thank God! there’s the hide off. Ay, mon,
what’s a’ this warkl ” And my blood freezes
cold as I look on M Turk.
So anxious to finish the work out of hand and
gladden the hearts that to all men are dear,
had kept no lookout, and there I was
caught in the bare act of skinning the Yarrabri
steer.
f said not a word as I looked on MTurk, whose
stony eyes never a pitying glance knew,
And I thought of the eyes that were waiting and
longing ; the eyes that would weary as night
onward drew —
And the devil gripped hold of my heart, wnich
throbbed madly, and goaded me on with a
horrible leer,
.frr'H, try as I would, mates, my eyes would keep
turning to MTurk’s skinny throat and the
knife by the steer.
He saw my intention, and, Jove ! how he funked
it. I laughed like a fiend at the sight of his
mug
As he whined out: “ Hoot, hoot, mon, it s only a
beastle. Ye needna be feared ; yere no m for
the jug.
Nae doot ye were put to’t, this awfu’ cauld
winter, for hunger and cauld are twa things
that wad skeer
The stootest of hearts ; so put up yer knifey, an
I’ll help ye along wi’ this braw fine young
steer.”
iFor a moment, I felt like I’d got a backhander
so stunned by emotions of joy and of fear ;
When, all in a jiffy, like a crack from a stock-
whip, up rides Billy Lawton, the d over-
seer.
With a yell like a demon, old Sandy runs to him.
“ Seize the villain 1" he shouts, “ for this work
he’ll pay dear.
Ify© caught the d— — scoundrel (he cannot deny
it)—l’ve jist caught him skinning a Yarrabri
steer.”
.'Not to spin it too long, boys, I need only tell ye
how the big-wigs all spouted, and sent me to
quod;
•How the Judge, with a skinful of Sandy’s best
whisky said a lot about folk sliding back
from their God,
While two pale-faced lads kept their eyes on their
father, this old buffer sent me to do seven
years*
’For striving to stifle the cravings of hunger by
killing one out of some hundreds of steers.
'T know it was wrong, mates —a theft and a sin
but ’tis hard to see childer as mine wor
Ah I well,
■A man’s a weak mortal at best, but starvation 11
drag him down, down to the portals of hell 1
lilt’s a curious world, this world that we’re in, and
Berrima Gaol’s a queer place— mighty queer ;
'■But there’s two things I’d warn ye to give a wide
berth to, and that’s old M'Turk and a Yarra-
bri steer.
[This is the best "apology for cattle-stealing we
have read for quite a long time. —Ed. B.]
JEREMIAH DOCHERTY'S COLLAPSE.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
This happened in a little mining township
in the north of Tasmania. Oar hero is a police-
man. He is nob tall and beautiful, only an ordi-
nary trap, with bow legs and a rich brogue. We
are sorry we cannot provide a magnificent hero
fitted with a commanding figure and profuse
curling, golden hair. To do that we would have to
lie, and lying is a sin. Jeremiah Docherty was a
policeman, the junior protector of the peace and
quiet of fifteen square miles of country. He was
nob a man to go ripping round hunting up crime
and disorder ; he preferred rather to repose in the
shade of a blossoming wattle-tree than to enter
into dubious conflict with the vicious and bois-
terous “drunk.” In truth, Jeremiah was not built
for a guardian of private property and public
decency ; he was put up for a farmer, but the
fates had taken him from the lowing kine of his
fathers and from the peaceful spade and the
potato-hoe, robed his lank form in a uniform that
fitted like a pea-sack on a scare-crow, labelled
him XVI., and spoilt a useful tiller of the soil to
make a bad policeman. Constable Docherty did
nob grumble, though he hung his hands behind
him and slunk about in the cool of the day, and
deliberately, but surely, waxed fat, and was
serenely content with his gentle, lazy lot.
* * *
By-and-bye, there came to the leading
pub. of the place, a witching slavey from Launces-
ton —a dark coquette, with an arch smile and a
winning way, that speedily subjugated the little
fluttering heart of the amorous Jeremiah; and
he went the way of all bobbies —that is, the alley-
"HE NEVER TOLD HIS LOVE.”
HE (to the new barmaid): “WAAL, AND WHAT’S YOUR NAME, THEN?"
SHE: “MY NAME IS PEARL, SIR "
HE (with expression): “HEY? AND ARE YOU THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE?"
SHE: “ NO, SIR. I’M THE PEARL THAT WAS CAST BEFORE SWINE."
way after the cook. Our hero loved beer, woman,
and ballad, with a love that passed all reckoning
—especially beer ; and, often enough, when he
should have been abroad in the execution of his
onerous duty, he lay away in some quiet nook,
sleeping off the influence of the colonial “tangle”
that had been supplied him at reduced rates by
the kind and captivating cook. Sly minx, we
verily believe she loved him not, and but followed
the strict injunctions of her wily employer, who
bade her “square the rat.”
* * *
One day a gang of young prospectors pub
up a game on Private Docherty of Her Majesty's
Police, that would bring a blush of shame to the
cheek of a clay idol. The Sergeant, our hero’s
superior officer, was away attending a magistrate
on circuit, leaving the key and care of the local
watch-house to the zealous Docherty; and, at
about nine o’clock in the morning, three of the
prospectors meandered quietly into the police-
station, lugging a small, strong box along. They
told Jerry that they had struck a rich out-crop,
and they wanted the box, which contained about
£5OO worth of specimens, locked up in the cell for
safe keeping. The dunder-headed Jerry readily
consented to their wish, and swore on his honour,
“ t’shpake niver a worud to a sowl” about the
find. The box was imprisoned and Jeremiah went
about with his nose in the air, looking as import-
ant as a newly-painted Joss on a mud pedestal.
Then those hardened young men proceeded to lay
as much alcoholic stimulant in the way of
the efficient Jeremiah as he could hold.
Through the agency of the beauteous,
versatile cook, the grateful liquor was
poured into him as if he were an ornamental
sink ; and ere the sun had sunk in all his crimson
glory below the western horizon—we like to jerk
in a little style, by the way—he was stowed away
in one of his snug, open-air boudoirs in the scrub,
sleeping the calm, restful snooze of an African
mummy untroubled by indigestion. When pale
Luna peeped o’er a neighbouring hill, two of the
diggers went out unto him, disrobed him of his
official rig, covered up his ungainly form with a
horse-rug ; and, after one of the jokers had pulled
Her Majesty's uniform on over his own attire,
they took up the somnolent number av th’ foorbe, and
humpedhimby an unfrequented route to the station-
house. The police-station was a crazy shanty
where Jerry and his Sergeant boarded and lodged,
and the cell had once officiated as an underground
dairy, bub it was fitted with all the latest improve-
ments in dungeon fixtures, and was strong enough
to resist the blandishments of the most disorderly
drunk that ever stubbed his toe against a brick.
The key to open this recherche retreat was in
Jerry’s pocket, and that gallant defender of the
holy calm of the district was gently run in and
deposited on the pallet of straw and covered up
with the regulation blanket. Then his uniform
was thrown down beside him, and the ribald
young men took away the strong-box and the
horse-rug, locked the cell door, leaving the key in
the look, and laughed a smothered laugh as the?
stole away into the night.
• * *
When Jeremiah awoke next morning he
had a head on him like a prize pumpkin. He
gazed about him, and, recognising the interior of
the cell, dropped his under jaw and gaped in great
amaze. He roughed up his hair, beat his brow,
and tried to think. “Now, fwat’s up?” he mur-
mured, and, suddenly remembering the box of
nuggets, he uttered a sad, low wail: “Howly
mother 1” it was gone. He sprang up, jerked
on some clothes, and banged at the door with
his brdgues, and howled like a maniac in
a fit. The Sergeant, who had returned late
the night before, heard the racket and
opened the door. Private Docherty rushed out
hitching his suspenders : “ Th’ gowld ! th’ gowld!”
he yelled wildly. “ Did yez shift it? ’ and, noting
the dumb astonishment of his chief, he began to
whine, and called down all the choicest curses he
knew upon his own devoted occiput, winding up
with a pathetic request to be told why he was
ever born at all. When he had obtained some
control over his feelings he explained to the Ser-
geant about the gold, and admitted having got as
tight as a chloroformed dog ” at the pub beyant,
“ An’, be me sowl!” he added, “I know divil a
worrd more, on’y th’ gowld’s gone, an Jewish I
was dead an’ buried these twllve months! The
Sergeant was thunderstruck, but he shook up,
and let out for the local telegraph-office, closely
followed by Private Docherty. A wire, reporting
an extensive gold-robbery, was shot through to
the Launceston police, on the heat of the moment,
and very soon the whole of the sleepy little town-
ship was aware that something of unusual interest
had occurred in its precincts ; a dog-fight and an k
accidental death were two of the many wild
rumours that ware circulated. The population
turned out en masse, and gathered round the
“fooroe" to hear the oft-told tale, and when the
Sergeant decided to interview the prospectors,
and glean further particulars, a great “push
folio wed him. They expected some fun, and it
I came.
* * *
The men who had engineered this practi-
cal joke were at work in a cutting
running along the side of a hill within
half-a-mile of the township, and when the
excited procession, headed by the police, came
careering over the brow they scented fun. “ It's
shook ! yer gowld’s shtole ! ” breathlessly yelled
Jeremiah from a distance. “ What are you talk-
ing about ? What gold ? ” asked the gentle youth
who led the last night’s undertaking, when the
people came up. It was said so innocently that it
took Jerry right aback, and he said, feebly : “The
gowld yez left in th' cill lahst noight—y’ moind ?
—it’s gone.” “ Oh! take him home and
put some ice on his head; he’s got ’em again.”
“Fwat! d’ye mane to insinivate that yez niver
fetched any gowld t’ be locked up f’r safe keepin ?"
“ Never a colour. We haven’t seen enough to
stop a back tooth since we came to this God-fOr-
saken country," “ Yez, didn’t fetch a box uv
speciments valeyed at foive hundred pounds ?’’
(This in a very weak, small voice.) “Why, you
lop-eared ninny, you’re drunk 1 Go and bathe
your temples 1 Four hundred pounds worth
of gold for you to mind. Ha 1 ha I
ha I ” and the wild derisive laugh of the
multitude chipped in, and went echoing and re-
echoing away among the hills. Private Docherty
was knocked silly with pure amazement ; ho
sank upon the fragrant turf, and cowered there
like a wet cat on a tombstone, gazing at the
gibing crowd with a dull, lack-lustre eye, the very
picture of helpless idiotcy. The sergeant got his
dander up. He also had been made an ass of, and
he frothed and swore considerably. “ Come on,
you drivelling idiot I You’ll be quilted for this
lot,” he hissed; “ come on, Delarium 1 ” and with
that he grabbed up his subordinate, and returned
with the assembled people.
* * *
Jeremiah retired to the parental home-
stead shortly after this, and resumed pig-culture
and the hoeing of the mealy tuber.
THE “RUSH.”
A NOCTURNE.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
'Tis a placo remote and wild
In a nook of the virgin range,
Whore the sandstone-boulders piled,
In shapes grotesque and strange,
Look down with stony stare
On the slate and granite bare,
On the tent-rows ghostly white,
On the twinkling camp-fire light
By the spectral lamp of Night—
The pale, cold moon.
Away up from the gullied
From the far-off flats and fells,
Come the distance-mellowed tones
Of the tinkling cattle-bells ;
And now, in the night’s full noon,
See I athwart the cold, round moon
The night hawk’s horned wing,
Its eerie shadow fling,
Where the oaverned waters sing
In muffled rune.
From gorge and gully round.
From fissured cave and glen.
Comes the chorussed wailing sound
Of the wild-dog in his den.
From adown the sinuous vale
Where tjie flrst-dew’sjapreading pale,
From hollow, swamp, and rise.
Where the bull-frog gloating lies,
Come the curlew’s treble cries
In weirdest croon.
From the desert-sandstone steeps.
From the furrowed beetling tops,
The glistening torrent leaps
Or prone-down rain-like drops
On the tabled flags below ;
Where it spreads in sheeny glow,
Or creeps to the wall-rock shade,
Adown where the grave is made—
By the big drift overlaid—
Of the virgin gold ;
By the flickering camp-fire light,
With the wan moon’s mild ray blent,
By the things of spectral white,
The bleached rock and the tent,
Where the flaring firelight glows,
And the shifting shadow throws,
Hear the joy-laugh, jest,[and cheer,
'Tis the bearded pioneer,
Who has tracked the metal here
To its mountain hold.
Here the bronzed and fair of face,
The greybeard and the young,
The types of many a race.
Diverse and strange of tongue;
From the North Sea’s storied strand,
From the swart South sunny land,
Here are Saxon, Celt, and Dane,
Conjoint by thirst for gain,
Linked by the magic chain
Of great King Gold.
Who can gauge the great “ To Be ” ?
’Tis the Western Big-life’s Spring
To the Southland of the free,
At the beck of the Yellow King ;
When the deep bed-rock shall feel
The touch of the probing steel,
And the sleeping hills around
Awake to the stampers’ sound,
As it frees the life embound
In the golden rook—
Who may gauge the great “ To Be ’’ 2
Tasmania.
J. M.
During the hearing of a divorce case in
Melbourne, the other day, a witness swore that
the respondent and co-respondent kissed in a
private room, because he heard the noise. Cross-
examiner Purves said it was the drawing of a
cork the witness heard, and that that accounted
for the lady’s face being flushed when she re-
appeared.


f
d
riSvi/i
t
The Same Old Tune (And a Bad One at That)




CENTENNIAL SUPPLEMENT.
HISTORICAL ALLEGORY-THE [?]LANDING OF OUR FOREFATHERS.
Respectfully Dedicated to [?] Airstocracy of New South Wales.


LADINC OF OUR FOREFATHERS.
Aristocracy of New South Wales.
SYDNEY “BULLETIN," JANUARY 21, 1888.




A CANNIBAL STORY.
[BY JAMES EDMOND.]
1 am quite sane as I write this auto-
biography—quite sane, and my pulse is calm
enough to satisfy any doctor as to my mental con-
dition. I am going to be hanged next week-
hanged by the neck till my body Is dead, as the
judge put it, bub then judges are so fond of un-
necessary detail, and till then I have this cell all
to myself—a nice, cool, damp place with a high
window, and thick iron bars to keep people who
are in from breaking out, or perhaps to keep
people who are out from breaking in—but, no, I
suppose it can’t be that. Who wants to be in
here, with the shadows and the spiders, and, worse
still, the chaplain—that smug man of platitudes
who talks, talks, talks, to me about my soul, and
flounders for my benefit through the great African
desert of a creed that he doesn’t comprehend—
and the loneliness and the darkness, and all the
rest of the etceteras which go to make up exis-
tence in the condemned cell? No, I don’t think
any ons wants to break in here. If I were free
and rich, and were anxious to find a safe resting-
place for the family jewels, and the heirlooms,
and the plate, and the other adjuncts of respecta-
bility, I think I would hire this same cell and
store them away in its shady corners, and rest
quite content as to their safety—provided, of
course, the chaplain could be trusted, of
which, by-theway, I am not quite sure.
He is such a shifty-looking individual,
with a loose mouth, and a seedy, far away eye
that evidently hasn’t quite done gazing upon
what its owner calls the lusts of the flash, and
pants that are too short for him, and a gallows
expression, if I may be excused for talking shop at
this solemn moment, and he never looks anybody
in the face—but, after all, I will be done with him
next week, and he matters very little to me now.
Only I would like to tread on him just once before
I die. I weigh 16 stone, and If I only had him
down on this stone-floor I would call him my
“ dear brother,” as he has called me so often, and
then I would step on his chest with the whole of
my massive two hundredweight of manhood and
telescope his bones, and tell them to get a new
chaplain to attend to the soul of their next con-
demned prisoner, as the old one had burst. I
think I’ll do it. The world can spare that
chaplain. # #
Bat I have gay times in this dark cell, In
spite of the chaplain, and at night, when a parsi-
monious Government has partially turned off the
gas-jet, I slug merry tunes that arouse the watch-
ing warders and startle the ghosts of the old con-
victs who preceded me here, and evoke the stifled
curses of the man in the next apartment—a miser-
able wretch with a barrel-organ soul, who Is in
here for life, and who seems to regard it as a per-
sonal injury that I spend my last hours over comic
opera for his amusement. But I expect even he
would sing if he ware in my position, always sup-
posing fellows of his stamp have any sense of
humour, which I doubt. For, after all, it is the
other man who is to be hanged—the man I killed ;
he is to be hanged for killing me, and I have left an
unstained record behind me and am deeply re-
gretted by all who knew me. It is the other man
whom the dreary chaplain shuffles in to exhort
every day, and who suffers beneath the fishy eye
of that lost rabbi; and, as for me, the pathos of
the funeral-sermon that was preached above my
dust was something worth remembering, and the
congregation were moved to tears, and gave
largely to the collection. It is the man whom I
wiped out and sent to perdition who Is spending
his last hours in this dull, damp cell, amid the
spiders and the shadows, and next week he will
be strung up between earth and heaven, and
neither earth nor heaven will see him any more.
The comedy will be at an end, and nobody will
ever know the secret of it. I wonder, sometimes,
if Gabriel himself will be able to sort us out on
the Last Day; there are times when I get en-
tangled in the mystery myself, and lose the run
of my own identity. lam here in some sense or
other, but lam not the Individual I was. He is
here, loo; I killed him, and yet he is here, and
next week he is to dangle on a gallows, and so
he will die twice over, and his second death will
be a hundred times more awful than the first.
And then we will lie together in one grave, and
play the part of a ghostly Siamese twin to all
eternity, and through the cycles of the everlasting
future I will be mated with a clown In a sense
that the poet never dreamt of. But the gaolers
don’t see it, nor the judge, nor that dull dog of a
chaplain, and if I told them they would never
understand, so I will enjoy the secret all by my-
self. Yet I would almost like to have that
sombre old judge here for an hour; he has a cer-
tain amount of brains, though they are of the
cart-horse description, and I would like him to
exercise his judicial Intellect on a question that
I am always trying to solve, and always without
success. I want to ask him where I am. I
want to explain to that law-befuddled old soul
that it is the other man who is shut up In this
condemned cell while they are putting up
the gallows outside ; that the man who
is dead is alive again—that the man I
killed is here waiting to be killed over again ; and
amid all this confusion I want to know where am
I ? Nowhere, apparently. I think when I get
into the Shadow Land I will send out a ghostly
expedition to seek for myself—to find out how I
have been jostled out of existence, and why I
have become so utterly unflxable. I wonder if
there ever was another man yvho, like myself,
was absolutely nowhere, who had neither body
nor soul nor existence of any sort ? I don’t
think so.
•
Let me try if I can figure out the pro-
blem. To begin with, we had been friends since
childhood. It yon want to know what “friend”
means you needn’t look in the dictionary ; I am
better than any dictionary when a question like
that is on the tapis, A friend is someone whom,
as a matter of custom or Interest or something
else, you pretend to love and admire and sacri-
fice yourself to, but whom all the while you hate
with the fathomless hatred of ten thousand devils.
He is a man who presumes upon your good-nature
bs do and say things that no one else would even
dream of, and whom you vow to repay some day
for his friendship when you can plan out a ven-
geance sufficiently awful to express your feelings ;
he is a self-satisfied fool who takes your time and
your money and steals from you the woman you
love, and never for a moment imagines that you
long to tear him limb from limb as his just re-
ward : that is the meaning of the word
“ friend." If you want to describe him by
a symbol, the hyeena is the best I can suggest, I
have met that animal in his native wilds,
and I felt half-inclined to embrace him, and
call him brother. Well, to repeat it, we
were friends, and he lived up to the character.
He married the woman who would otherwise
have married me; he went Into politics, and be-
came famous; he rose steadily and constantly,
and began to look down on me, while I grew rich,
yet remained a nobody. And, unluckily, I grew
impatient. If I had worked and watched and
waited, I might, perhaps, have dragged him
slowly down to infamy, and left him to die in the
gutter ; but I was tired of him, and a sudden
temptation was placed in my way. He owned a
lonely house on the sea-coast which he never
occupied, and one day the fancy took him to go
and look at it, and he asked me to.accompany him.
Nobody knew we were there ; nobody was near
to disturb us; and while the miserable fool was
telling me how he intended to get the old man-
sion repaired, and turn it into a summer resi-
dence, I brought an axe down on his head, and
finished him. He was uttering some ponderous
jest when I did it, but he never came to the end
of it. A sudden, frenzied desire to have a joke on
my own account hurried me on, and his dreary
witticism was cut short.
* * *
I suppose you never had a coipse on your
hands that you didn’t know how to dispose of. If
you have gone through that experience, you will
understand what an awkward thing is the dead
body of a friend. In the first place, it is so long
that you can’t get it into lots of convenient hiding-
places which would otherwise just meet the case.
And then, when you have found a suitable spot in
which to bestow it, it is awkward to remove. If
you are strong enough to carry it under your
arm, it doubles up, and the head knocks
against your legs, and if you drag it along it
leaves a trail that may betray you anytime. And
PLAIN CITIZEN (log.) : “ NOW AIN'T THIS AN AWFUL SIZE OF A THING TO LICK ! "
even if you bury it it is always coming to the sur-
face again, and if you throw it into the sea it is
100 chances to one that it is washed up, and if
you live by the sea-shore it will float 20 miles for
the satisfaction of coming to land opposite your
door, I reckoned up all these dangers and felt
that I must devise something new. And then I
struck upon a brilliant scheme which I carried
out to the letter. I ate him. I evaporated sea-
water in the boiler in the big, empty kitchen, and
thus got the means to salt him, and then I lived
on him for the next fortnight till he was all gone.
I hunted up an old gridiron and a saucepan and
cooked him in all sorts of ways, but he was best
when I fried him with onions. Roasted he was
terribly insipid, and he made the worst stew I
ever tasted, but grilled he was not at all bad. I
got fearfully tired of him at last, but I kept look-
ing forward to the time when he would be
finished, and then I would go back to civilisation
and enjoy a club-dinner once more, and that kept
me up. I burnt his bones even, and then I
pounded them into dust and swallowed them,
and when all was over he had vanished from the
earth as completely as if he had never been. I
burnt his clothes, too, and threw the dust into
the sea, and I pitched the gridiron and the sauce-
pan over the cliffs, and there the matter ended,
and I was done with him.
* • *
There was a tremendous hue-and-cry
after the missing man, and I was indefatigable
in conducting the search for his remains. Per-
haps this may seem like hypocrisy on my part,
but I don’t think anything could have been more
natural or more reasonable. In the first place, he
was the individual above all others who was in-
terested in the search, and I was he, so far as he
could be said to exist at all. Next to him I my-
self was the person most deeply Involved, and
thus I represented both parties at once, and tried
to do my best on both sides of the question. But
this sorb of dual existence, though amusing
enough at first, ultimately grew wearisome, and,
after a while, a change came over mo that I had
never reckoned upon. My double personality be-
gan to come to the surface. I was the dead man
as well as the living one, and even in death he
was the stronger of the two. Gradually my fea-
tures assumed the cast that his had worn, and I
found myself speaking with his voice and think-
ing with his thoughts, until at last I seemed to
become him in every sense, and, standing outside
myself, I raged against my own perfidy, and
called do wn vengeance on my own head. And, as
this change crept over me, the whole crowd of
gaping imbeciles who made up my circle of ac-
quaintances began to regard me with horror as
some new species of madman, and obtrusive detec-
tives commenced to haunt me with a vague idea
that the key of the mystery was somehow in my
keeping, and medical vampires fresh from the
dissec ting room refused to be shaken off, and
hung round me at every turn, till life became
a horror. I was a walking grave, a ghoul,
an itinerant ct arnel-house; I was two dif-
ferent men by turns, and these two hated
each other with an unfathomable hatred and
would fain have given each other to the flames of
e ernal torment. My secret escaped me at last—
and lam here. But I am all myself now, and I
can laugh gaily in my condemned cell as I recol-
lect that it was he who was tried and sentenced,
and whose name will be remembered with scorn
and loathing as long as his memory shall endure.
I wear his outward form yet; I wear it in the
gaol, and I will wear it on the gallows. His wife
comes to see me and to weep over me at times,
and when she kneels at my feet J wish I could
raise his ghost to look at her, and enjoy the spec-
tacle. I struck her the last time she was here,
and that snuffling chaplain told the story of the
interview and how the blood flowed from her face
at the blow. It was all set down to his account.
I wish he could come back to earth to enjoy the
reputation I have built for him.
* * *
This Is a long explanation, and somehow
the problem with which I started seems to remain
pretty much where it did. There is a strange
buzzing in my ears, too, and strange lights flash
before my eyes, and strange things seem to shape
themselves in the corners of my cell; I think I
must be going mad in my last hours through my
ceaseless efforts to work out the problem of my
lost identity. Who am I ? It would be a satis-
faction to know. If I wore free I think I would
advertise for myself, bub then they don’t adver-
tise here, except when they want a new hangman.
Let me try to work out the question according to
algebra. lam x—an unknown quantity, and he
—well, I will call him a, and the chaplain is the
devil, and —bub perhaps I have forgotten all the
algebra I ever knew, for my proposition seems
to be rather incoherent. I will put the ques-
tion to the soulless clod In the adjoining
cell; he is in here for life, because he kicked his
wife’s head off, or something equally stupid, so
he will have plenty of time to think it over —
poor beggar, it will amuse him some of these
long nights after I am gone ; and he can bring
the answer down with him when he dies. I will
howl my statement of the position to him through
the wall, and see how he likes it. Or, perhaps,
the hangman would know—or the chaplain. I
will try him —and, by good luck, here he comes.
“ Holy imbecile, and son of a painted jackass, can
you resolve me this question ?” Ah! he is gone.
Apparently, there is something about my aspect
that makes him prefer ho other side of the cell
door to this. Bub I will Lave him yet., I will oat
my waj through the panels, and lay my hands on
him, and then I will eat him, and but I am
wandering from the point, I must bo calm. I
will wait till that miserable reverend ventures in
again and places his damp, flabby hand in mine,
and opens his battery of platitudes, and then I
will dash his dreary head against the wall, and
dance on his remains, and sing the song of the
butchered chaplain. I will make him into
an opera, and go in for festivity. I feel
the Divine afflatus coming upon me —ah I
this is something like joy—l will ask that
beetle-browed ruffian in the next cell to
come in through the wall and we will make a
night of it —hurrah I —and then I’ll kill him, too —
he will never be missed, and besides he is miser-
able, and it will cheer him up to be killed a little
—and then—and then—l
THE CENTENARY.
Hallelujah ! Sound the tom-tom.
Toot the bugle, bang the drum ;
Jingle on the gay triangle,
Soak your Intellects in rum—
Hl-yah! Selah ! Bong ! say we,
This is our Cenfenaree.
Now’s the time to gorge and guzzle,
This is when we all get tight,
Drivel of the “ Mother Country, 1 *
Take our boots to bed at night.
From all care and sorrow free,
This is our Centoiaree.
Just a hundred years to-day, sir,
Our ancestors touched this ground,
And our fathers—don’t forget it—
In their irons hopped around—
Wonder not we’re full of glee,
This Is our Cenfenaree.
Only think how, as they landed,
Every one went on the burst;
Some gob flogged for shaking whisky.
Others howled and others cursed —
Yell, ye lags! Ju&iJatee !
On our first Cenfeuaree.
Send around the fusll-oil cup.
Pour the snake-juice down your neck,
That will wash out all remembrance
Of that blasted lower deck —
Lay yourselves out for a spree,
This is our Ceufeuaree.
Don’t you mind when BUI the Faker,
An’ the bloke that looked so green,
’Ad their tickets stolen from ’em ?
Oh, the larks that we have seen !
'Nether glash — hie —whoop ! thashme 5
This Is our Cenfeuaree.
Wass or good o’ lookin' glum, eh 2
Don Brittanner reel er wavsh I
Hie —lesh ’ave a nuzzher branny !
Britons never—whoop—ugh—shlaves!
La’s and genTm, fill ’em up— hie —
Givem shust a free times free!
Glory—go-ory—allelooyer |
Thlshesh—our—shen— whoo-op-er-ee !
Battle Hymn of The Republic.
[BY MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE, AMERICAN.]
Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord,
He is trampling out the vintage where the grapes of wrath
are stored;
He hath loosed the fateful lightning of His terrible swift
sword;
His Truth is marching on.
“ I have seen Him in the watch-fires of a hundred circling
camps;
They have builded Him an altar ip the evening dews and
damps;
I have read His righteous sentence by the dim and fiariug
lamps;
His Day is marching on.
“ He has sounded forth the trumpet that shall never call
retreat;
He is sifting out the hearts of men before His Judgment
Seat;
Oh, be swift, my soul, to answer Him; be jubilant, my
feet—
Our God is marching on.
" In the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea,
With a glory in his bosom, that transfigures you and me;
As he died to make men holy, let us die to make men free,
While God is marching on.”
The ordinary public are very conservative
in some things, and a new idea gets but little en-
couragement. Nevertheless, we venture to call
attention to a new invention for killing rabbits,
which promises to supersede all others, and rid
the land of this pest at once and for ever. The
idea was, in the first instance, obtained from a
medical work, and it runs as follows :—“ The fres
flow of perspiration is essential to health. Its im-
portance has been demonstrated by the fact that,
if the pores of a rabbit’s shin be stopped with a
coat of varnish, the animal dies in a few hours."
This is the principle. There are many ways of
applying it. For instance, we could arm the
present rabblters with guns that should project
varnish Instead ef shot, or we could give them a
can of varnish and a brush each, with which to
paint the rabbits. Or we could construct a
machine to do it automatically. Or, better still,
we could get a tank with a hole in it made to cor-
respond, with the opening of the burrows. A valve
could be arranged with a string, so that the rabbit
could open it and come out through the tank,
which would be filled with varnish. Of course in
his passage he would be completely coated. Or,
again, we know from Darwin that any desirable
peculiarity will be transmitted to posterity, and
that it will increase according to its usefulness.
What, then, would be easier than to varnish a
few rabbits for breeding purposes and turn them
loose again ? In a few years’ time with a little
attention we could raise a new breed of rabbits
who would bo born already coated with natural
varnish, and this might be accelerated by cir-
culating fashion-journals among the lady rabbits
showing the advantages of this new style of coat.
There are many more ways in which this idea
might be utilised, and the only reward the inven-
tor asks is to be allowed to starve quietly while
alive, and to have his carcase squashed by a
marble mausoleum when finally defunct. And
that isn’t much, anyhow.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, JANUARY 21, 1888.
ne l m
mm
QEO-HjQiNßOTrtAti
PERSONAL
PURITY
J.D.LAK^
Sturdy
PElMoci?acy
[.Smith Haul
FREEDOM
of the
PRESS


4$
qpi-
BtH
%•
w
K
w
Pi
S
\%
Honour to Whom Honour is Due.
AUSTRALIA (log.): “AH, WHAT GREAT MEN THESE MIGHT HAVE BEEN IF THEY HAD ONLY BEEN TRUE TO THEIR COUNTRY."


THE EVOLUTION OF PARKES.
BY SILAS SNELL.
Deep in the virgin forest of the parent
o lony, nigh to where the waters of the Wollondilly
drifted ’neath the fierce, white son lazily towards
the ocean, the people of the great tribe called
Warrawollong had pitched their mia-mias. The
limbs of the stately gum-trees drooped o’erhead,
and frpm their blossoming boughs a million locusts
shrilly chirruped their monotonous chorus. Whilst
the homely and industrious lubras o£ the Warm-
vollong tribe devilled the ring-tailed ’possum and
grilled the succulent make, the man and their
dogs rtdined languorously in the shade, the
f jrmer cultivating a strong passion for alcoholic
stimulants by patient practice, and the lat:er oc-
casionally turning their deep and steadfast stare
from the roasting meats to snap lazily at a
marauding fly, or grub in a half-hearttd, ambi-
tionless way all along their spines in pursuit of pre-
datory varmint, for the Pilgrim Fathers of N.S W.
had long ago set their manacled feet upon the
sands of the shores of Botany Bay, and pestiferous
rum and the otter agile feature of civilisation were
firmly implanted upon Australian soil. The dis.
tilled molatses, confident in its fatal fascination,
had fairly inaugurated its mission of extirpation,
and was complacently knocking out able niggers
with methodical precision ; and the dumb, yet
maddening flea grouped itself about the camps
of the sable natives, and rendezvoused on their
domesticated dingoes, from whence they radiated
in aT directions to practise upon the lonesome
tribes. _ _
* * •
The Warrawollongs were a mighty people,
numbering many score. Long had they roamed
the pristine woods ere the white Invader seized
on the soil, the men content to win their simple
meal by smiting the old-man kangaroo or tracking
the bushy opossum to his
lair, whilst their gins,
uncomplaining, bore the
bedroom furniture, the
cooking utensils, and
the bric-a-brac. If the
march wore long and the
day oppressive, the
dusky ladles often, with
connubial consideration,
gave their wearied lords a
lift upon the way, the
fond husbands accept-
ing these attentions in
silence, and occasionally
clubbing the gentler sex
to impart agility to their
movements. Then were
the Warrawollongs gaf-
fers over all in the wild
woods and upon the sandy
plains. Other nations
shrank appalled before
their reeking spears, and
with the kidney fat of
their enemies they oiled
their ebon persons, till
the bull-dog ant had to
sand his feet ere he could
secure a grip upon the
weakest of the tribe.
But the advent of the pale-
face foreran wondrous
changes. The prowess
of the mighty strangers
humbled and appalled the
booty sons of the sail,
whilst the white man’s
rum filled them with soul-
ful yearnings and new as-
rlrations. The simple black, who erstwhile had re*
g irded a skinful of baked ’possum, and voluptuous
t ase under the lea of a fierce fire, as the very
acme of felicitous existence, became possessed of
higher ambitions ; ho longed to emulate the white
pfeller, and thirsted for tobacco and for rum,
aimed at mutton and baker’s bread, or strutted
\\ich Jackdaw-complacency in misplaced scraps
cf foreign apparel. The Warrawollong tribe was
the first that was seized by the damning spirit. Its
people had been foremost to greet the pale in-
vader, and foremost to sample his drinks. For
years, with reverential hearts and awesome faces,
they had beheld the mysterious, miraculous
works of the whites—those men who built gaols
to Immure themselves in, whose weapons spat
fi e a d death, and whose waters were agents of
enchantment; and though, as years rolled on, the
Warrawollongs were forced deeper into the
forests in search of sustaining wallaby andnardoo,
t hey clung to their reverence for the whites and
their institutions, and wandered periodically to
the shores of Botany Bay, seeking to barter ’pos-
sum-iugs for rum, er, with native eloquence, to
c >jo!e bread and beer off their white-skinned re-
latives.
* * *
Now, returning after an excursion to the
sea, the Warrawollongs lie encamped by the
Wo’londllly’s waters, and, as the gins patiently
prepare 'possum on toast and baked black snake,
their lords seek the cooling shade, to polish off
the remnants of the rum and bull the bottles. As
the choice bouquet of the grateful liquor mingles
w i h the aroma of the dogs and the grilled Iguana,
the natives yabber of the wondrous whites, and
i ate them above their gods. Their tongues are
loosened by the potent spirit and the eyes of the
Warrawollongs burn, and their hearts beat fast as
they recount the mighty deeds they have wit-
nessed in the camps of the pale faces.
King Billy alone sits stoical and unmoved,
his leaden eyes emit no spark, his fixed smile
bespeaks only a due appreciation of the rum. of
which he has annexed the giant’s share, befitting
h s exalted rank. King Billy, as the brazen cres-
. ent—a gift from the white brother who builds
ibo gaols—pendent from his neck doth vouch, is
the fl-st monarch of that name to rule the Warra-
wcllorg nation. Bill I. has faded into the sear
and yellow leaf; his hoary head bespeaks three-
i core years of wanderings up and down and round
about, and his shrunk shanks and trembling
frame’tell their tale of weakness and incapacity,
I,ike the grotesque mud idol of a South Sea
savage, he squats propped against a tree ; a bat-
tered bell-topper is set jauntily upon his royal
occiput, and the brass insigna of his majesty, a
polished pie-dish, a copper token, and a billy lid,
gleam upon his chicken breast—his only decora-
t ons. Ho joins not in the eulogiums of his
p.ople; the single sound that escapes his
withered lips is a sonorous hiccup which
packs his every joint with a kick like that
of a Queen Ann musket. Grinning vacantly into
the middle distance, Billy the First sits there a
grim mockery of monarchical institutions, and a
fitting contrast to the great HI Ham, the mighty
warrior, who, by force of will and personal
prowess, has risen to his proud position as first
chief in the confidence of the Warrawollong
nation.
• * *
A cold and haughty man is the great Hi
Ham, a man of vaulting ambition, a man with a
mission. Lean and wiry of limb, his otherwise
fine, commanding presence is much impaired by a
chronic tendency to abnormal development of the
lower stomach ; his legs are finedrawn, like those
of the emu, but his joints are large and well-de-
fined, his feet are much more extensive than is
necessary to his habits and mode of life ; his
hair and whi-kers are long and grizzled, his nose
is retroflex, the nostrils Inflated like those
of a spring poet, and his raiment is the simplest ;
a pair of linen cuffs adorn his anch s, a brass col-
lar, with the name “Fido" inscribed thereon, is
clasped about his neck, and he has improvised a
worn and wasted fancy vest into a loin-cloth,
thrusting his legs through the arm-pits, and but-
toning It up the back.
* # *
The Hi Ham is indeed a man amongst
men ; his diplomacy and genius for finance have
won him place and power in the nation ; no chief
has ever eclipsed him in dealing with the white
pfeller; for ’possum-rugs ho can get more rum,
and by his wiles and tact ha can beg more bread
and beer, than any other Warrawollong living.
He crouches amongst his countrymen, bis bott'o
between his knses and his toes curled up; he
speaks little, but hU eyes burn fiercely, and he
hears all. Inhlsbo:om conflicting emotions are
raging, and the contempt he feels for the puppet-
king shines out in his fiery gaze. The great Hi Ham
has a revelation to make to his fellows; he feels
himself inspired to preach a new doctrine, and
now is the appointed time —now is the soil prepared
and ready for the seed. S.artlng to his feet with
a wild, weird cry, the chieftain thumps his
breast with the empty bottle, and calls upon the
Warrawollongs, old men and young men, to listen
and give heed ; and then, in tones which thrill hi's
congregation, the Prophet fulminates his creed.
What though some H'a are lost and others mis-
*Ev ri fhj. OXuf>t/to&ic t*»
Ka >7»«y njCtvo***,
<x /uHx*s4t, .
Hoia) kt unrufd tirvli*
iuL tUd .
d
Co/oK?d from ol f/iofc of
&h CLi/ertij Cr*a£
fSc*- Wney'ftvtte*
placed; these sable children of the wilderness look
for no niceties of speech; the zealot's passion
electrifies their souls, and the bold beauty of his
gospel fires them with a glorious hope.
• • •
Mon of Warrawollong 1 Oh ! glorious
are your destinies, magnificent the meed of your
wisdom and your power 1 Look towards the sea
where the mia-mias of the whltemen are thicker
than the gum-trees around us, and study the pale-
skinned strangers who, coming from ye know not
whither, have grown all-powerful In the land
since ye were children. They have sprung from
the dust of our fathers. The noblest and the best
of our people who go to their graves with skins
blacker than the last hour of night, rise again—
we know not how, we know not when—with faces
like the dawn, and there, with their white
brothers, revel in beer and bread, and mutton and
rum." With fervid passion the Hi Ham speaks,
and the young men and the old men cluster closer,
and murmur, in their wonder: “Go down
blackpfeller, jump up whltepfeller 1" The
great chief paints the glories of unlimited
rum, the grandeur of brotherhood with
the revered and luxurious white man, and
tells them how they may seek that marvel-
lous consummation. His the hand to point the
way, bis the brain to teach them to earn the re-
ward their grandest forefathers have already woo;
no tottering king can mouth the tidings. The
seed is sown, and, deep into the hearts of the
Warrawollong it thrusts its root. As one man,
the listeners leap to their feet, and the voice of
their enthusiasm echoes amongst the distant hills :
“ Go down blackpfeller, jump up white-pfeller I ”
One dissentient alone in that great throng—the wall-
eyed, knock kneed King—fearful of being over-
thrown, seizes his waddy, and advances towards
the Prophet, his arm uplifted, and words of wrath
upon his tongue ; but, ere he can strike the
blow, half-a-dozen empty bottles crash upon
his skull, and King Billy I. is no more.
His dynasty has passed away. The body is
quickly stripped of its badges and its honors, and,
decked with the crushed plug hat, the brazen
sign, the copper token, the pie-dish, and the billy-
lid, the great Hi Ham poses In the centre of a
whirling, leaping, shrieking ring of disciples; he
is declared King of the Warrawollongs, and De-
fender of the Faith. So says a tradition of the
tribe.
* * •
The great Hi Ham ruled his nation for
many years, and his gospel spread to other tribes.
Dissenters ho squelched with a spear, and unbe-
lievers were convinced with a club. The glad
tidings travelled far and near. Aborigines from
the Gulf of Carpentaria to the Great Australian
Bight heard and believed, and the proud name of
the Hi Ham became mighty throughout
the land. As time rolled on the belief
strengthened; the young men of the nations
were attracted by the beauty of the creed, and Ita
teachings encouraged their highest aspirations,
and solaced them in their hours of thirst. Human
nature is ennobled by ibe constant straining to-
wards higher developments. The chieftain who
gave his black brothers an elevating belief,
grounded on hops, and verified by the known in-
destructibility of force and matter, deserved their
honour and obedience, and they were freely
given. The Hi Ham was venerated; he toiled
no* 1 , neither did he spin, but his supply of kan-
garoo and devl'led snake never ran low, and
he had always the run of the rum. He grew a
corporation as big as an air mattress, and did
little in his latter days but sleep and eat. His
work was done; the aborigines knew that after
death they would rise to the bliss of barrels of
beer and rivers of rum if they were fit and proper
niggers, and no v he might pass on to his reward.
The great Hi Ham died of an attack brought
on by over-indu gence in underdone paddymelon,
and the sorrow of his people was fearful in its in-
tensity. 1 hey buried him according to his own
dictum, undtr a spreading tree with a half bottle
of his favourite beverage clutched firmly in his
right hand, in case he should feel dry on awaken-
ing. For two or three months the Warrawollorgs
hung and slung abou n , hoping to see the resurrec-
tion, but long, long years flew by, the whites
surrounded the place with their dwellings, and the
peop’e who had called the Hi Ham king faded and
fell away, till only one obese nigger and two
shaky gins of all the tribe were left wandering
upon the face of the earth. And still the little
mound covering the chlefcan’s dust remained
green and unbroken. Children played abmb it,
and young lovers sat upon it, and dreamed
it was.. but an abandoned ant-hill as
they murmured their fond vows and tender senti-
ments. dhe Hi Ham’s mausoleum was now en-
closed within a public park, and far and wide the
chics andhamlets of the white mao dotted the ver-
dant plains.
• * *
At last came a memorable, bright, still
night. The slowly-atealiog moon peered above
the tree-tops, and, amongst the looming shadows
of the oaks and other foreign flora about the tomb
of the Prophet, cast her beams of ghostly white.
One silvery shaft fell aslant the green mound, re-
vealing two dark figures seated upon the sacred
hillock. Close side by side, with arms entwined
about each other, the desecrators sat, and the
crisp night air bore afar the short, sharp reports of
stolen kisses, and the sound of a damsel's voice
saying, in decisive tones:
“ Now, William John Jones, I'll never speak to
you again as long’s I live —so there I”
A deeper voice threatens to do it some more.
“ You just dare I" in firm falsetto.
And William John, being of a fearless turn,
promptly does so. It was a pretty picture ; pale
Luna bathed them In her silvery ray, and a yel-
low leaf eddied from t£e branches above, andtell
at their feet.
* • *
But, see ! "What causes the fond pair to
start asunder, and, like marble representations of
grisly horror, to sit transfixed, and stare with
wide open eyes fixed upon the earth ? A hand,
white and long, rising from the turf, and parting
them like the finger of fate. A hand and arm,
long, skinny, and ghastly pale. The fingers clutch
a bottle, and, as the lovers gaze, entranced and
smitten with a hideous fear, their hair standing
on end and their lower jaws fallen and rigid, the
green turf rises and breaks, and, like some won-
derous growth, a hoary head appears. Uttering a
s multaneous shriek of mad agony, the lovers
turned two back somersaults, regained their feet,
and fled pell-mell from the haunted spot, William
John in the van, and covering the ground like a
scared kangaroo.
* • *
As if Impelled by some upheaving power
below, the figure continued to rise, until it stood
intact upon the turf in the bright moonlight, one
arm erect clutching the bottle, the whole pose
defiant, and a pie-dish and a billy-lid gleaming on
its breast. It might have been Ajax, but for the
swollen joints and the wide-spread feet. The
hair, whiskers, and moustache were abundant
and snowy, the nose retroflex, the nostrils dis-
tended, the skin white. In the other hand was a
crushed plug hat.
• « •
The HI Ham has risen !
• * *
For a time the resurrected chief stood
like a statue, then the joints relaxed, the glazed
eyes brightened and fell upon the bottle. W ith
anxious haste the Hi-Ham sought a stone, decapi-
tated the glass casket which held bis spirit, and took
a long and earnest pull. Then he sank upon the
mound, and with a bottle between his knees, and
bis eyes brightly gleaming, he crouched and pon-
dered. He was still the great Hi Ham, but h e
personality seemed to be merged with that of
another, greater and more vaulting in its ambi-
tion. The mantle of a powerful white statesman
had fallen upon him, his soul glowed with aspira-
tions, and a mighty fire of confldt nee burned
within his brca?t. A certain imtinct whispered
that the white nation awaited his advent to guide
them from the brink of ruin, from debt and dis-
honour, to prosperity, power, and peace ; that the
people would take him to their hearts In all faith,
and place their destiny in his hands. Knowledge
of the language, arts, and customs of the whites
had oome to him through some mysterious,
spiritual agency during his long sleep. The
moment was opportune, and Hi Ham was ready.
The moon had fallen again into darkness ere ho
had concluded his reverie. Then the Prophet
arose. A garment lay at his feet —an overcoat
which the young lover had forgotten in his haste
and anxiety; he picked it up, and, enveloping
with it his regenerated person, turned and wan-
dered towards the silent city.
* * *
The Instincts of the givat chief had not
deceived him. The white man bowed himself
before him in homage, and there was champagne
in place of rum, and chicken where there had
formerly been ’possum and old-man kangaroo.
They spoke of him as one who had been with
them before, but who, incensed by thair fickle-
ness, had fled, vowing that they should see his
face no more. They called him by a strange
name, and he responded ; they asked his opinions
on finance and politics, and they were answered in
the voice which, many years before, had nego-
tiated offerings of beer and bread from the white-
pfeller under all manner of adverse circumstances.
The warrior who, in a previous state of existence,
had gone out in a crushed plug-hat to squelch the
flames of religious dissension with a club, and
had won his liquor and wallaby by a masterly
policy of borrowing, became Premier of a great
colony, and sent the hat on circuit to raise the
wind when he became hard up. He had waded
through the Valley of the Shadow to grapple
with a big deficit and preach Freetrade to a be-
nighted race; he had upheaved himself out
of the sarcophagus to prove to a nation of scoffers
the truth of the mighty Gospel which is em-
braced in the one great axiom : “ Go down black-
pfellar ; iump up white-pfellar ; ’ and nobly did
he fulfil his mission. The knock-kneed gin, who
had carried him on her back in many a long
march, along with the kitchen utemils, and the
library, and the bric-a-brac, had unconsciously
borne the destiny of Australia as ho welted her
along. For her own part she never rose again,
but the shines in the reflected glory of the lordly
Australian Statesman of to-day—the resurrected
Hl-B am.
A Central Australian Republic.
Dear Bulletin,—lt is. time that something was
being done for the neglected region of Central
Australia. In the interior of this Continent a
great, dusty land is going to seed, and this is
greatly owing to the fact that it depends for go-
vernment, and nearly everything else, on the
coast districts, and politicians who have been
brought up with a water-frontage fail to under-
stand the requirements of a country which doesn’t
need a navy or an army or an Imperial Ins’itute
or a State House, and which would swap all the
Centennial rejoicings that ever was for something
to drink. A Colonial Secretary who has had the
water laid on in his back yard since his infancy,
and a hotel quite handy at the comer, Is not the
man to legislate for people whose water supply
consists of a green ditch with a dead cow in it,
situate 100 miles away, and who seldom sea a
public-house more than once a month. There is a
lack of sympathy between them—to call it b/ its
mildest name—and it is for this reason thao I
would suggest the formation of a Cantral Austra-
lian Bepublio on entirely new and liberal prin-
ciples. The following is the draft prospectus of
the new venture :
THE CENTRAL AUSTRALIAN REPUBLIC.
President (say) Dan, O’Connor.
Vice-President (say) Patsy O'Connor, or William
Gatjnson.
Treasurer (say) O. A. Lloyd, or Henderson Africanus
Minister of Foreign Affairs (say) Mr. E. W. Moon (uow
wasting his sweetness as Consul for Costa Rica). or Con-
sul Oakley, of Hawaii.
Admiral and Minister of Marine (say) Garden Honey.
Minister of the Interior (say) John Lucas,
The other high officers of State boicg of small im-
portance could easily be procured from M Ibourna
Benevolent Asylum. Tne next thing is the Con-
stitution.
CONSTITUTION.
1. All hotels shall keep open day and night.
2. It shall be permissible to smoke, spit, curse, bet, and
drink, in the House of Representatives.
3. No member shall be alio »ed to speak longer than 10.
minutes, and any member infringing this rule shall be con-
sidered drunk, and shall be instantly removed by the Her
geant-at-Arms on a wheelbarrow.
4. The Civil Service shall be paid by piece-work, and no
Government or bank dude shall be permitte 1 to carry a
tooth-pick, or a copy of the morning paper, or an eye-glass
to his office, neither shall he suck the top at his cane.
5. All husbands shall get up and split the wood in the
morning.
6. No crests, armorial bearings, or such-like tomfoolery
shall be permitted on plate, carriages, or any uescnptioa of
private property, and family diamonds shall be prohi oitod
except in the case of glaziers who use them for business pur-
poses only.
7. Dukes, marquises, earls, viscounts, barons, and other
animals, also the female of thelr.speciea, sha 1 be compelled
to drop their titles while within the borders of the Central
Australian Republic.
8. All officials shall be elected by the people.
9. Where was Moses when the light went out ?
10. There shall be no extradition treaty with anywhere.
ParsouS and sky-pilots generally shall be poll taxed, and
shall not ba allowed to leave the terri.ory of the Republic
with more money than they brought wheu they arrived. No
religious body shall bang a big drum in the streets, and all
Chinamen shall be hanged.
I could fix up a lob more Constitution if I had
time, but I have to lecture at the Young Women's
Christian Association to-night, and can’t stop.
The ten articles above mentioned, however, will
start the Republic in a small way, and they can
be added to as it grows, until the new State
boasts a Constitution Act with 26,000 clauses, or
thereabouts. During the first year the President
can hang out in the back premises of a whisky -
store, and Parliamentary business can be carried
on In the nine-pin alley adjoining. It Is no good
for the new Executive to put on costly frills at
the outset; a reliable public-house and a cheap,
plain, yet durable gallows are all the machinery
required to start with, and run on these principles
I am convinced than the Central Australian Re
public has a great future before it—in fact, its
future must be before Ir, as It obv on 1* inic
behind.
Yours, Central Austrau n.


The Fatted Calf.
PARKES “ WELL, ’E HAIN’T AS FAT AS HI ’OPED ’E WOULD BE, BUT, ’AVING HANNOUNCED THAT I WAS AGOIN’ TO KILL THE HANIMAL— 'ERE GOES."
n r T»tAT
f/
goi/T^O' pi.Af 1 ''
# 0
A0 our r HA j
' lAL-
vo
li f >- Eyfs
0
1
-y vao .
O
S'/// y _ 3u/~ Jc/re/y y'ou tyei/er -j~~~//
7 ' y // / you^^/~ /'cyccs //? £i<?'yet>7\/ t '


Wokxh Knowing Jamep’ Detective Cold Water Soap
has made a reputation for itself quite surprising. In the
“ wash-tub, ’ its patrons declare it far surpasses all other
soaps for quickness, ease, and perfection. Its cures in skin
diseases, &c., are wonderful—scurvey, prickly heat, all kinds
of sores, bad feet, horses with greasy heels, cows with sore
teats, mangy dogs, are all subject to its removing power,
while it is so.d at common soap price. The genuine testi-
monials which Mr. James has from ministers, missionaries,
gentlemen of position, working men and their wives, are un-
deniable. Over 200 grocers in Sydney keep it, and all com-
munications get piompt.attention from Mr. 11. James, the
maker, at 70S George-street, Sydney.*
“ To-morrow, did st thou say ? Methought I heard Horatio
say to-morrow." Say to-day, then we shall get the earliest
choice of the choicest of beauties to be found in 402 and 404
George-street; 20s worth for 16s of the world’s art china and
glass, and many are Bray Bros, own specialities. Their Cash
Sale is now on.*
Everybody aaya—and what everybody aaya must be true—
that Pemell’a Bnow-white Patent Roller Flour ia the
beat in the market.*
Infatuated Bearthirsfc hasn’t profited by
his experience with Bookmaker Sutton. Wo read
of him pigeon-shooting with the London Gun
Club, and getting miserably left, as of yore.
The CtAKBNCE AND RICHMOND (N.S.W.)
Examiner states that “ when a man goes for a
shave and sees a few pounds of raw meat on the
counter, it rather knocks him all of a heap."
There is a lot of immortal truth in this sentence.
He takes the meat to be the last customer hashed
up.
Archpriest O’Meara, who recently died In
Melbourne, entered the Church late in life. He
was for a long time in business as a provision
merchant, but at last he abandoned eggs and
taturs for theology, and gave up carrots for a
higher vocation. His quondam curate at St.
Francis, Father W. O'Callaghan, was an attorney
in his early days, but lived to burst up the old
theory that a lawyer never repents, thus reversing
the process of Attorney-General Boutledge, of
Queensland, who smarted as a parson, and left the
vineyard to scream in defence of the Northern
horse-thief.
When next you bake try PemeU’a SNow-wnixß Roller
Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.*
Society
There was a lovely creature in the giddy
throng at a recent Melbourne ball, with a
tires 3 that looked like a dream of summer clouds,
and a sort of patent bounceable india-rubber bust,
and a gold roof to her mouth, and other expen-
sive fixings, and for three hours or so she had a
high old time of it. Then, alas! she came to
grief. Her dress was buttoned up behind, so the
ardent admirer who presented her with a bouquet
about the size of a raspberry tart had to pin it to
her bust. The next thing he was aware of was a
horrible wheeze from his partner’s chest, and a
current of air blowing in his face, and in about
five seconds the lady into a baggy
thing of ignominy, with an old, broken bird-cage
framework— a creature whose upper half seemed
to be roughly constructed of one clean-picked
bone, covered with ropes ; and it dawned upon
him that the bust had burst. She got away some-
how —she never knew exactly how, neither did he
■ —but the people on the flat below her were dis-
turbed by sounds of dancing overhead, that con-
tinued to a late hour, and when a lady at last
went up to remonstrate she saw through the key-
hole a set of teeth in a glass of water, a crushed
bonnet, a pair of high-heeled boots, and a female
whose complexion was half washed off with
tears, and who couldn't have passed for 17 except
at night with the light behind her, attired in
skimpy petticoats, and dancing a fandango on the
shapeless tatters of what had once been a bust.
The visitor, who had corns to holler, respected
her tears and old age, and silently stole away.
* * ■
A correspondent sends us a weird story
about a bullook-driver at Wee Waa (N.S.W.),
who carries patent blacking with hlnj and shines
his boots every night in his camp. From this we
gather that even the child of Nature is falling a
victim to an effete and tawdry civilisation, and is
prepared to sacrifice the simple nobility of his
character for the gaudy harness of fashion and the
meretricious shams of a hollow and impure world.
There was a time when we pinned our faith to
the plain and honoured rowdy of the wilderness,
but alas ! our trust in him is fast drifting away.
He has begun to shine his boots, and in this we
recognise with tears the first symptoms of that
mental decay which has already destroyed so
many heroic lypes of humanity and left a blank
among the works of Hod.
* * *
At this festive Centennial time —when
Australia is on the point of celebrating an event
rather intimately connected with the gallows—it
comes quite natural like to slip in a bit of noose
about Jim Berry, Britain’s Nosey Bob. The
special reporter for a provincial journal has been
sounding Berry's political opinions and kindly en*.-
quiring after his family. His mother and brother
were Liberals “in favour of abolishing capital
punishment,” until Jim took his present billet
under the Crown. But immediately after that
they both fell sick and expired in considerable
agony. The narrative goes on to explain that
poor Berry showed emotion when referring to
this melancholy result of sticking to the wrong
party. “ It killed my mother and brother,” said
he, “ but I always did have different ideas to
them ; I'm, a Tory through and through ” :—
There is a missing grandmother on a sheep
station in the wilds of Wairarapa (N.Z ). She
was aged about 50, but she looked 20 years
younger, and she had 15 children ; she had stuck
to the station all through the old years of war,
when Te Kooti was raiding through the district
and might ba expected to drop in at the back door
any moment and dash her teeth through her back
hair with his club ; and Anally she eloped with
a shearer aged 26—a loud-cursing young man
with a dirty moustache and a hash horse. Her
weeping husband gave chase on his crutches, and
stumped along in stern pursuit till at last he
found the lost grandmother and her youth on
board a steamer. Then he implored her to come
back to her happy home, but she replied that for
30 weary years he had drivelled to her about
frczsn mutton, the price of wool, the rabbit ques-
tion, and the latest Anancial snort of Sir Julius
Vogel, and she could endure it no longer. So the
steamer sailed away, and the shearer now tows
his cadged ancestor rounl the country while he
pursues his calling, and they are happy, except
when he comes home diunk, which is every night
and twice on Sundays, and now and then in be-
tween. Still he allows her to keep some of the
money she makes by taking in washing, and he
occasionally gives her a shove behind when she is
carrying the swag, and, as already mentioned,
they are happy,
* * #
It was at a swimming-bath. The exact
address doesn’t signify, because anybody who
wants to know can get it by applying to the bath-
keeper, and the date doesn’t matter much. Also,
the names of the patties concerned are of no con-
sequence. A thoughtful-looking man in a blue
bathing-suit had s ood looking at the water for
about half-an-hour, and at last he beckoned to
the man who lent out the costumes, and gently
said, “ You c’aange the watsr pretty frequently,
don’t you?” “Twice a week. Had it in clean
this morning. Any fault to find with the water ?”
“ Oh, dear, no! Not at all, not at all I In fact,
all the arrangements are admirable. But—er —
when do you let it out next ” “ Next Wednes-
day, Lost anything ?’’ “ Well, not exactly ; no,
I can’t say I've lost anything,” here the man in the
bine bathing-suit lowered his voice to a whlsner :
“the fact is, I was bathing with my wife's
mother, and I don’t seem to see her anywhere.
She was a stout woman, in a black bathing cos-
tume. You haven’t seen her anywhere, have
you ? ’ The attendant said ho had not. “ Well, I
just remembered that I trod on something soft
down there at the deep end awhile ago, and an
idea struck me Let’s see. Wednesday you
said. I think I’ll drop round then, if you don’t
mind. Of course, it isn't of any particular conse-
quence, bnt I may as well look in. Thanks ; good
morning ”
* * *
A tattooed lady is giving receptions at the
Albert Palace, London. The fair creature Is one
mass of instruction. Her back is inlaid with a
powerful scriptural picture, and her soft, wreath-
ing arms are punctured with outlines of the
saints. Round her waist are mottoes such as
“ Love and truth must prevail.” Other parts of
the tattooed lady display botanical and ornltho-
$
f
Sift
logical studies of a recherche description, and one
or two little poems are worked on her feet.
• •
Thus the D.T. daily installment of high-
toned fiction “ for ladies only ”: —“ He had taken
no base advantage of that sign of tenderness ; he
had not pressed her hand with the vehemence of
a passion that will take no denial. He had been
humble with her, as became him in the basement
of his guilt." Now, if that was the case with the
cuss, what we want to know is this - what sort of
way became him in the first floor of his Innocence ?
And what did he do in the top attic of his aggra-
vation, anyhow?
♦ -x- *
Melbourne saasiety mast be losing tone
when such questions as the following are pro-
pounded in the correspondence columns of the
local newspapers:—
What would you think of a young married lady who, des-
pite her husband’s admonitions, made appointments with a
bachelor friend, and allowed him to accompany her on long
drives in a hansom for which he paid?
It all depends— we should say—on what station
these high flyers occupy. If they are aristocrats
—in the Knglish sense—lt’s very proper, yer
know, and the old man of the lady in the cab
will probably borrow a small cheque from the
noble coon who drives her about as a guarantee
of good faith. It is a way they have there ; and
the husband will go away and drive another lady
about In another hansom, and square things that
way. Bat if the parties belong to the “lower
orders,” and the injured husband wheels brioks In
a barrow Instead of smoking big cigars in a cab
the chances are that it will end In a badly battered
masher, and a sobbing female who has been vio-
lently shook out of her boots.
♦ ♦ *
There is an old lady in Melbourne just
now who doesn’t feel well, and her two daughters
are also indisposed. Her son, lllck, however, a
shock-headed youth of 16, continues to enjoy good
health, and riots round while the rest of the
family are pining away in bed, and stating that
they will never, never enjoy their food any more.
They live in a high-toned suburb and move in s ts-
Slety, but privately they have bean accustomed to
take Btand-up me.le la th, kttohen. aad the youag
iadies forage round in petticoats and curl papers
and do the cooking themselves. A leg of mutton
iasts long enough la that household to become
“S®* history and the butter is a cheap article
with hairs in it. Consequently it is a gala occa
sion when the unwholesome- coking son and heir
l 1 it’
and when he arrived the o her day with an im-
rl™h a 2S
i t
shm diet, had the first square meal she had
enjoyed for a month and Gladjs Ethel Maude
film
aloof from the bill of fare, and when the flsh was
™ ofIT
wh? n h n til«t«n
ing, and when he was iandwd and shaken the
® e .\ a rest, of the story is too aw.ul to
tell. Emily Victoria want into fits in the back
yard on hearing it, and Gladys Sthe i aude
was smitten with an inward pain in the wash-house
When they recovered a little, the whole family
put a notice on the door that they hadLgona for a
1
feebly to bed. They have now been in bei a
week, and are still sufTering. Once a day or si a
dishevelled girl creeps downstairs in a long white
garment, and collars a hunk of stale bread to
avert starvation or catalepsy, and Dick keeps
himself alive by boiling eggs over a candle, or
tries to fry a scraggy chop in boot varnish. When
his mother tries to get up he hollers “Eels!” at
her doorway, and then she goes into hysterics and
drums on the floor with her feet. The family are
now so thin that they can count their bines, and
while they are thus- prostrated by calamity tbe
heir smokes bad cigars in the drawing-room, and
aggravates their sufferings by keeping a horrid
dog which yaps all day in the yard.
Poetry about a wrecked female—copied
verbatim from a Victorian country paper :
“ Physicians sore long time she hore,
Affliction was in vain;
God thought it rest to give her best,
And treed her from all pain.”
There Is a wonderful amount of artistic madness
in this upside-down little thing about the
deceased, and yet there is a greater scarcity of
useful information in these lines than in any other
poem of its size that wa know of. The author
doesn't even hint that the lady is in heaven or
anything of the sort, but dismisses her with a
brief intimation that she has been bonne id from
this vale of tears, and is up a tree. And we ask,
with sorrow, if this sort of thing is calculated to
soothe the path of grief and to lighten the track
of affliction? Was it done wilfully and out of
ungodliness aforethought, and if so, why? Or
was it all owing to the mule-headedness of the
inky compositor, who labours in an inky room
with one bleary eye fixed on his lunch, which he
has stowed in the “d” box, and the other
on the flat bottle which is hidden away among
the italics, that the printer's devil mixed up at
the time when he was larking with the boy from
the Christian paper in the next street, who had
come in to get a proof of the advertisement about
the clergyman In great distress, who had
pawned his watch for £5, and wanted to sell the
ticket for £2 10s. on account of his youngest
dang iter whose mother died in her infancy, being
unable to go to school for want of boots. And
when it speaks of the deceased being up a tree,
does It mean that she is now roosting in the upper
branches of the tree of life, and what does it
mean by saying she is in a tree anyhow, when
she has really gone to grass, and had a big tomb-
stone slumped down on top of her, and—but, after
all there are too many complications in this four-
line screed, and it had better be left alone. Only
what on earth was Providence so tired about that
it thought it rest to give her best, and ?
One of the “ minor Methodist bodies ” of
Victoria, according to the Melbourne Heraed, te
in a tight place at present, and the busted gaffers
of the panorama have resolved—
That ministers’ wives should be able to both pray, testify,
and preach in public, and that young clergymen should not
be allowed to gratify their carnal appetites and feelings by
marrying pretty and, perhaps, kind and affectionate, but un-
converted girls who cannot do these.
We rise to second the motion. In the good times
of the venerable long ago, the Methodist parson’s
popey used to preach testify, prophesy, see
visions, and have fits at revival meetings, and
when the reverend guide to bliss resolved to
marry the girl was always put through a strict
examination on these points before she was quali-
fied to lay ihe shepherd’s tea-things and prepare
his seraphic victual?. But, of late, discipline has
relaxed. The minor Methodists now wed Phili-
stine girls with 20-button boats, who can’t testify
worth a cent, and who don’t know how to pro-
phesy, and dare rot have fits for fear of damaging
their bustles. Consequently, the shepherds have
been gradually weaned from the Loard, and their
wives are no longer yanked out of revival meet-
ings in a frothing, stiffened condition, as of yore.
The collections and the excitement have both
failen off. and a thick-headed sect is going to the
dogs. Therefore, the old craters of the Methodist
community have resolved to go back to the old
system ; the shepherds will marry pretty and af-
fectionate girls no more, and the long, slab-
chested female with the turn-up eyes will again
come to the front.
* # *
Governor Loch, with all the reckless
generosity of a Scotchman, has promised to give
£lOO to the Children’s Hospital, Melbourne—on
condition that 29 other persons join him, and
raise the total to £3OOO. Only a few months have
elapsed since Loch made his munificent offer, but
already six gentlemen have planked down their
promises, and darned the expense. So, unless
Death intervenes, there is a fair chance that the
money will be paid in before Her Gracious cele-
brates her Centennial.
Judge Johnston, of
N. Z, is an animal of
large discourse 1 ooking be-
fore and after. Fully
ten years ago he was hold-
ing forth on the bench
at Timaru, and adorn-
ing his Illustrated page
with scraps of Latin, and
the reporter in a burst
coat and pants that were
gone at the feet, who
was pawing round and
trying to keep pace with
his Honor’s airy dietion,
turned his cui bono into
“kibosh” and thereby
held him up to public
scorn. The other day
Judge Johnston was again
at Timaru, and somehow
the old outrage came
back to his mind. The
old reporter, however,
was gone ; he now walks
the street which is called
Beautiful—in fact he has
croaked. But the way
Judge Johnstone walked
into the new reporter
and shook him up and
banged him down again,
over that ten-year-old
“ Kibosh ” was some
thing worth remember-
ing, and If ever that new
reporter can manage to
be too late when running
for a doctor to treat a
judge taken with apo
plexy he will not miss the
opportunity, and in a
general sort of way Judge
Johnston's blood will be
on his own head.
• •
A Sydney gentle-
man who had carefully
trained up his servant in
the way he should go,
so that, when his wife
was present, he might
not depart from it, sent
him with the box ticket
for the theatre to the
house of a young lady.
The servant returned
while the gentleman and
his wife were at dinner.
“ Did you see him ?" said
the gentleman, giving
him the cue. “Yes, sir,"
replied the servant; “Ae said he’d go with a great
deal of pleasure, and that he’d wait for you, sir.”
‘' What was he doing ?” asked the wife, carelessly.
“ Patting on his bonnet, ma’am."
* * •
Thus runs a sentimental passage in a
tearful novel, which is at present sobbing its way
through a Queensland bi-weekly
“Unfaithful? No. While he lived he would love her —
she trusted him utterly. Dead? No. An Instinct she
could not define or understand, but which was as strong as
conviction, told her that he still lived. But why had he not
written ? That was the miserable puzzle which had kept her
awake many a weary hour in the dead unhappy night, and
when the ram was on the roof. 1 '
No wonder she couldn’t sleep, with such an animal
on thereof. Nobody could, except a policeman or a
-night watchman.
THE BRITISH HANGMAS.
Under the gruesome gallows tree
The British Hangman stands ;
(The Hangman’s name begins with B.,
'Tis known in distant lacds)
And the music of his croaking voice
la worse than German Bands.
He never feels the least disgust
For what he ha* to do—
But he looks his victim in the face,
A Tory through and through.
He goes on Sundays to the kirk.
And with the Tories prays ;
He sees the smug old parson smirk,
He hears the words he says —
How his most Gracious Queen is blessed
In lots of special ways,
And the moral of the Litany
He paj s attention to,
Till, more than ever, he becomes
• A Tory through and through.
The Hangman s mother died of shame
When he took up his trade ;
The Hangman’s brother did the same,
(On both their minds it preyed)
And in the churchyard, green and lone
Those relatives are laid
For they were merely Radicals
With principles like you—
But he rejoices in his job,
A Tory through and through.


PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD.
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railway-
four miles from Camphelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less t han two miles from Menangle
Station, divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AREA 2063 ACRES.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intended departure from the
colony, to submit to auction, at their rooms. 130
Pitt street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April,
at 11 30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly im-
proved properties ever submitted for sale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE’S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOU3E.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings,
stables, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &0., &c. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&o. Elevation above sea level about 600tt.
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains!
%*lt being impossible within the limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MOUNT GILEAD, a descriptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate w-ll be submitted in one lot, and
should the proprietor fail to obtiin a price com-
mensurate with Jhe value of the property, it will
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM. 50 ACRE 3 to 100 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspect at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALE.
JAi'S PAINOfii OF WALE'd HOTEL,
ST. EILDA.
ffl HIS first class Hotel offers superior acoommoda-
-1 lion to visitors acdresidencs, belnginahealthy
and central position, fronting the Bay. near Es-
planade) and Baths, and within live minutes’ walk
of the St. Kilda Railway Station. Priva” e suites
of apart ments. Ladies’ drawing room. Gentlemen’s
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
ex ra charge.
MOULTON'S PAIN PAIN"
CURES AU. PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOO'I HACHE,
SPRAINS. BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &c,
and takea internally cures DIaRRHOEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
internal aches and pains.
Price, £»/- sold ®v©rywSs€E , e
G. E. &30ULTG9, SQis pmiETOH.
M.E LBOUBNB AND BVDN2I
DR. TUKE, M.R.C.S,
Enorland.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
for all Nervous Diseases ; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Dr. TUKE guarantees a
thorough and permanent cure in every case under-
taken, after consultation, by letter or in person.
Consultation costs nothing, and the Doctor will
tell you at once whether your case is curable or
not. Address —
Dr. TUKE, M.R.C.S., Eng„
7 Sprlng-st., Sydney.
JOURNALIST, at present connected with
Sydney paper, desires intercolonial or
country correspondence. Light matter; topical
Verse; Election Squibs; Paragraphs ; Parlia-
mentary Notes; Leaders Supplied.
“ VALENTINE,”
17 Cove-street,
Balmain.
d
~of jSydmg*
JCNOLAN CAV£S:BLU£t
316 CEORCE SI srrvra* Hunts* STxCP.O.
NOTICE.
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoining “Bulletin”
Office, Pitt-street. Apply, this Office.
fJIO JOBBING PRINTERS, &o.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co., Pitt-street,
~ NOTICE.
WILL Mrs. K. BRUNTON, late news-agent,
Newcastle, oblige by calling on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney.
SMOKE AND OHEW
Mill alllTT
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
B
A* My
& ,
nav^
fdf
CUT TOBACCOS.
On receipt of P. O. Order for £1 Is. we will
immediately forward 31bs, VULCAN MIXTURE
In Jib. Packets, noted for its fine flavour, together
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE in
case. And a Dice TOBACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS' CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MBERCHAUM PIPE,
and
Jib. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the colony upon receipt of
P, 0. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us, and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATCH BOXES,
and
All other articles apertalnlng to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKa
COME,
If only to inspect these. We have almost every
kind of stick obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying In price from 6d. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line.
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUBING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We reoommend'you to send for one of our razors,
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
. for
HAIRDRESSERS.
N.B.—Hair made up In any design,
OWBST PRICKS, WITH DESPATCH.
CEms in mm,
Tobacconists* and Hairdressers’
Snndrymen,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
OUT THE ADDRESS OUT.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca ,
T7"ictorla,_
THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
is the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention.
First-class Hotel Service. Accommodation for
200 Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ck 1 Sjeaiing S fi,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverlna District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING'S
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer la a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public
Batha. Aloock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
J. I. & Spearing,
PROPRIETOR.
Taylorfirtf
- HtQHLV NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
WAV BE OBTAINED m ÜBELIED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONV,
BEA001VSFIEI.I) -HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne.
d
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
Lea &PERRI
SAUC
AiTpfSßiie
In consequence 0/ imitations $f THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE which art calculated s» iecswe tks Public, Lea and Femm
have to request that Purchasers m that She Lshd m zmrp hitk
bean their Sigmtmrs ikm-^
without which m htik &/ the W&MGMSTM'MSMIMM
SA is gsnuim.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrmpfer, Label, J&ottk smS
Stopper, f Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse «m 4
Blackwell, London, &’c., N'c~; and by Grocers end Oilmen thromghimt the WorM,
Wholesale Agents : Montefiore Joseph & C 0. ,: David Cohen & Co., Sydney.
U U UU ij
Y&
Y4I
NEWEST INVENTION—GREATEST NOVELTY.
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET,
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear
The Queen Bays: —** These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the cross
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain Thp„'
modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could
Cold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882
Cold Medal, Highest Award
jtob Corsets, London International Exhi
EITION, 1884.
Latest Award !!! Cold Medal Internal
lional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1880.
OA UTION.— Beware of worthless imi
ations. Every genuine Y & N Corset is
tamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
BOLD BY ALL DRAPERS AND LADIES OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIES
CpUDM£^
WARDED TO THE,


The Referee
On Monday next, the British boxer, Jack
Btrarke, will face Larry Foley for eight rounds at
the Carington Grounds, Sydney, Larry has
Worked harder than was expected to get into
Condition for this fight, and, presuming that both
mfiu are tm the job, the meeting should prove a
stubbornly contested one. So far as can be
judged from a fight set-to, Foley has lost none of
the science knocked into him by th® most scientific
boxer the world ever saw, Jem Mace ; and if
Burke is not up to every ounce of his reputation,
it will go hard with him during the limited
number of rounds the men are to contest.
* * *
Turner’s performance against the English-
men in their first Innings was one of the best on
record. His average of 8 wickets for 39 runs, six
clean bowled, needs no comment, more particu-
larly as the Englishmen adopted the cowardly
tactics of standing in front of the wicket to play
the ball, a course in which they were well
seconded by Ulyett, the English umpire. Ferris
also bowled well, bub Turner took the wickets so
rapidly that It gave him little chance to chip In.
Ferris tries to overdo the break, and we fancy
would meet with more success if he sent them in
with less spin.
Carlyon will be a good horse to follow, as
horses go. And, whsn you come to think of it, how
seldom seme horses do go !
* * #
In the late boat race Ned Trickett
wagered his little pile on Beach,
• • #
Over a thousand people paid sj. for ad-
mission to Foley’s on Saturday night, to see Peter
Jackson play for four rounds with Murkan man
Costello. Peter undertook to knock the Yankee
out in four rounds, but for some reason or other
he merely played with him, and allowed Costello
to last out the time. Maybe Jackson’s good
nature would not permit him to knock his smaller
and less scientific opponent about, but Peter must
remember that he had entered Into a contract
with the 1000 people who paid for admission,
which contract he had a right to carry out to the
best of hla ability. However, Jackson himself
Will be the greatest sufferer over the affair as his
reputation as a boxer will be gone when it goes
forth to the world that the Australian 11-stone
champion could not in four rounds put a fighter
of Costello's calibre in his little cot.
Dr. Canny, late Surgeon Royal Artillery and H.M. 11th
Regiment, L R.C.P. jLM.MEO S., Bngland. Registered
in Great Britain and N. 8. W. 61 Wentworth Court Cham-
bers, Elizabeth-street (ground floor) Specialist in Diseases
of the Liver Kidneys, &c. Dr. Canny’s long service in.the
Tropics, &c has afforded him special experience in the
treatment the above mentioned diseases *
It’s an astonishing fact that many people make money in
strange ways. The tradesman oft by short weight and
adulteration. The land company bw keeping the deposits
and tire! payments, then retaking the land. The lawyer
milks the cow, while two of you dispute the ownership. In
“ Australia’s” Consultation there’s no object but fair play.
The numbers are put in the box, subscribers draw, and the
promoters care not who wins. Anniversary Handicap and
Ascot Vale Stakes now open. £5OOO and £3103. Address
Australia.’’ uare of Mr. Hugh Dalreen, 3154 a, George-street,
Sydney, N.S.W.*
HKR MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7. S Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS,
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, 65., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CO OGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUIL I I*G
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia,
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is.
OPERA HOUSE.
Corner of York and King Streets.
Frank Clark Lessee.
OUR FIFTH
WEEK and
LAST
BUT ONE.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
SYLVO
The INNOVATOR. SYLVO The INNOVATOR,
SYLVO
The Premier of Equillbristlc Dexterity.
Marvellous Feats of Equation,
and of
OUR NEW FIRST PART.
Performance ac 8 sharp ; terminates at 10.20,
Admission—ls., 35., and Is.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager,
r
HLIATRB royal.
__ Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and BfinsgrOTfl.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar.
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Prices:—Dress circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Circle, Is.
QBIIBBIOM
Sole Proprietor
Business Manager ...
THEATRE,
Mr. John Solomon
Mr. Joe Davis.
LAST 10 NIGHTS
LAST 10 NIGHTS.
REMEMBER LAST 10 NIGHTS REMEMBER
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD.
The management beg to intimate that, although in
the zenith of its
IMMENSE POPULARITY,
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
LITTLF JACK SHEPPARD
must be withdrawn, as other novelties are to bo
placed before their patrons.
Box plan In the Office of the Theatre where
seats may be reserved from 10 to I.
Alhambra music hall
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... ... Mr. Frank Smith.
KYKRY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers), 38 Performers.
Under the Conduotorshlp erf Mr, Chas. Austin,
Sittings as Usual.
Alhambra
Qeorge-street,
Proprietor and Manager
Stage Manager
MUSIC HALL.
Haymarket.
Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Mr. Harry Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
ALT, ALI, A LI,
THE MOST IMPORTANT ENGAGEMENT
of the SEASON.
THIS MARVELLOUS AUTOMATON FIGURE
is the most irgenious piece of
MECHANICAL ART ever produced.
A MAN’S whole life-time has been spent to bring
this GREAT SENSATION to PERFECTION.
Miss M. BUCKLEY
and Messrs BUCKLEY and HOLLY
will also appear EVERY EVENING.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, 6d,
PSALMS
(REVISED).
HEAR this, all ye people, and give ear all ye
invalids of the world, bell’s bitters will
make you well atd to rejoice.
2. It shall cure all the people and put sickness
and suffering under foot.
3. Be thou »of afraid when your family Is
sick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell’s bitters will cure you.
1. Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of bell’s bitters for bilious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints.
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and 1 shall
have robust and blooming health.
6. Add disease upon disease and let the worst
coma, I am safe if I use bell’s bitters.
7, For all my life have I been plagued with
sickness and sores, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell’s bitters.
8. He that keepeth his bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
9. Though thou hast sores, pimples, freckles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blood poisoning, yet bell’s
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman is there, feeble and slok from
female complaints, who deslreth not health and
useth bell’s bitters and is made well,
11. Let not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver complaints.
12. Keep the tongue from being furred, thy
blood pure, and thy stomach from indigestion by
using bell’s bitters.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Go., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES & QUEENSLAND.
A Great Problem.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the— best
— Qualities of all the best medicines in the
world, and you will find that—Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters have the best curative qualities
and powers of all— concentrated in them.
—And that they will cure when any or all o
these, singly or— combined. Fail till
—A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Hardened Liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has worked a miracle in my case; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morky, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
“ I was dragged down with debt/poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick family and large bills for doctoring
X was completely discouraged, until one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters, and in one month we were all well, and none
of us nave seen a sick day since, and I want to say to all
poor men, you can keep your families well a year with Dr
Soule’s American Hop Bitters for less than one doct )- m
visit will coat. I know it.", *“
A Workingman,
m None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown In
the bottle. Bbwamb of all the vllepoiaonoas stuff
mads to Imitate the above.
the
COL NIA
Ij
MUTUAL
Life Assurance
Society
(Limited).
NEW SOUTH WALES:—
105 Pitt-street, Sydney.
VICTORIA : —
84 and 86 Collins-street, W., Melbourne.
OFFICES
IN ALL THE
COLONIES,
AND IN THE
UNITED KINGDOM.
MmiUMOE
ENDOWMENTS
AND
ANNUITIES.
THE
MODIFIED TONTINE POLICY
issued by this Society is the
most liberal Policy ever devised.
CLAIMS PAID
IMMEDIATELY
ON PROOF OF DEATH
AND TITLE.
VOYAGING, TRAVELLING,
OR
OCCUPATION
without restriction
OR NOTICE.
POLICIES
UNCONDITIONAL,
UN CHALLENGABLE,
AND
INCONTESTABLE.
T. JAQUES MARTIN,
Managing Director,
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys. Is more reliable for remov-
ing all Impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. B. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England.
Fort Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s D anellon Bitters. 1 have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned t—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, Indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as 1 have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
ows
'■EMBROCATION
ft
if \SOLD r
tEVERYWHERE‘I
3/6
Row’s Steane’s Wine
ia a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for It raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane’s Win©.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY,
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW'S
‘ STBANE”S’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemicals, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They should become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row's Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
Instead of drink. As an anti-febrile Is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS.
Edward Row & Company,
18. IS, 17, GKGRGK-STRBKT, SYDNEY,


Centrally
situated
AND
accessible:
TO ALL THE LEADING
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
BRISBANE
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
HQTf ISOl S0U ™
v I LI OFTHE
EQUATOR
£2
&
t
ctß 23 -
//<W<
itiiiini.
1
u
MOTCU
□
ll auil f llt 8
u u
c* DANIELI
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, wit h amagniflcent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Hot and Cold Plnnge and Shower Baths. ®iT COIIEEOIAL EOOI.
C» H* DANKEUt
BETTER THAN ANY GOLD-MINE.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
OF THE
Trust iuMiUnt ail Imknt Conpaiy,
Limited.
INCORPORATED WITH LIMITED LIABILITY UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT.
CAPITAL (in Four Issues of Shares, as stated below) £1,000,000.
Presant Issues, Balances of Unallotted Second
and Third Issues.
Second issue of 20,000 £5 Guaranteed Preference
Saares, to be paid u”'to dl ss. per share at the
option nf th« r .a cash, or by monthly instal-
r>” t, • •> > U js than Is. per share, the balance
or £3 15.,. ..dug guaranteed by deposit of securi-
ties, or cash on deposit, the holders receiving the
rants or interests payable on such securities, or
the interest al ovr d on such cash deposit, to-
gether v ith a bonus of £2 per cent, on the £3 15s.
per share unoalDd, and the dividends declared on
the amount paid up, with the right of alternating
cash for securities, or on notice securities for casta,
or of paying up uncalled capital, receiving thereon
a preferential dividend at the rate of £5 per cent,
per annum and share of profits, as more fully
s ated below.
Third Issue of 90,000 £1 “ Preference ’’ Shares,
to be paid up in full or to ss. per share only, at
the option of the holler, in oa°h or by monthly in-
stalments of not leis than Is. per and bear-
ing a “Preferential” dividend of £6 per cent, per
annum, and a share of net profits.
DIRECTORS:
Sir EDWARD STRICKL AND, K.C.8., Chairman,
ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq , F LA. Deputy-Chair-
man.
CHARLES GEORGE CAMERON, Esq., C E.
CHARLES STUART CANSDELL, Esq, B.L,
J.P.
Major THOMAS SAMUEL PARROTT, C.E.
BANKERS :
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
Limited, Sydney.
Chief Offices: Corner of King and Elizabeth
Streets. Sydney.
London Offices : 3 C cosby Hall chambers,
GREAT SUCCESS OE TRUST COMPANIES.
Trust Associations in active operation in Hol-
land for nearly a century, and in South Africa
for over thirty years, have so won the confidence
of the public that there are now no less than
Eighteen such Companies quoted in the “ Cape of
Good Hope Prices Current,” nearly all of which
unite the business of the management of “ Trusts ”
with ‘' Assorance” and “Guarantee’’ operations.
RECENT QUOTATIONS to APRIL LAST SHOW
CONSIDERABLE INCREASES in their DIVI-
DEND?. In proof of this, attention is requested
to the following tabulated quotations from the
“ South African Share List,” revised to the 31st
March last, of the amount paid up and selling
price per share, and the annual dividends paid,
and their equivalent yield per cent, per annum :
* The shares of the three companies firstly
mentioned in the above list are nominally £2OO,
with £lO paid, the balance of £l9O being guaran-
teed by desposlt of securities or cash, as in the
case of the “ guaranteed shares ” of this company.
The above quotations show the unparalled divi-
dends secured by original investments in shares of
a “ Trust” Company when made at its commence-
ment. so as to secure the advance of profits from
its foundation. Similar companies have also been
established in Sweeden, and 12 in New York,
Chicago, and other principle cities of the United
States ; five in Victoria, one in South Australia,
one in New Zealand, and one other has recently
commenced operations In this colony, THB PER-
PETUAL ; its shares, 53. paid, sell at a premium
of £l6O per cent.
Space forbids any tabulated record of the
American companies, but of those near home it
may be noticed that the company first established
in Melbourne (1878) already pays dividends of
£2O per cent, and its shares of £1 paid sell at £7
per share, giving a profit of £6CO per cent.
Others, not so long established, are selling at a
smaller premium. TRUST COMPANIES, IT IS
CLEAR, MAY CLAIM TO NET THE LARGEST
RETURN UPON CAPITAL OR ANY FINAN-
Cl A.L INSTITUTION. Life Assurance Com-
panies yield in well-established associations from
£3O to £B5 per cent; and the bulk of our “ Land
and Mortgage” Societies pay £2O per cent. As
this Company combines all these operations, a
small profit of but £6 per cent, from each department
will give an early dividend of £lB per cent, with
continued increases year by year as additional
capital is introduced.
APPLICATIONS for PROSPECTUSES and
SHARES to be addressed to the Directors, at the
Chief Offices of the Company, corner of King and
Elizabeth streets, Sydney.
SHA.RE LIST WILL CLOSE
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
P tt» Goto Mbd a i,
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
2333DX N’33TJ3RGKBC-
R. CUNYNOHAMB. Bond-street. Sydney.
Id bulk
and case.
Best BKER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TIECEI BRIGHTON OF 3ST.S_W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &0., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de Hole at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilmlnster to make her visi-
tors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTBR. Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel Is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraul Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect. Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
READ
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“Australian Land Nationaliser.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
JOHIT FAI3I3ELL.
IT Is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
object Is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform—to do
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and induce others to do so. Everybody interested in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS-12s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
Cigar JDirvax.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Piper,
R. CLIFFORD.
OASTLKREAGH STREET
AGENTS WANTED
To handle our fast selling lines. Special Induce
ment offered to first-class salesmen.
Full particulars on application to
B- TOITES,
6 BRIDGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
KOLLEK
SKATES.
V
HOLLER
SKATES.
2000
PAIRS in stock. Best Skaitfe ever
imported to Australia. The
celebrated “ WINNER" BOILER SKA.TES,
complete with all recent improvements. Adopted
by the leading American Rinks for reason of their
Perfect -Action, Durability, Lightness, and Ele-
gance. Intending purchasers should order now
for next season, before lines are broken. For sale
to Rinks and Dealers in lots to suit, at prices that
defy competition, by the manufacturers. MUNCIE
ROLLER SKATE CO., 205 Clarence-street, Sydney
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
o» Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds. Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH. Director.
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDBRA, N.S. W,
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
A Good Night's Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARBT FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particular!
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the science of self-defence.
Olasses now open.
Wh*h m Sydkiv, i» 100 miss Four's 100
Have not seen thb 0111.
Ashfibld re creation ground and
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
SKATING. SKATING.
tKATING. SKATING.
The largest and finest Skating Rink in the
Colony. Large stock of new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admissission : GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds Illuminated by Electric
Light.
[ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.


I
%
s
A FAITHFUL FRIEND.
Jf it were possible to place you in direct com-
munication with all the people interested, you
would get such an enormous qoaatity of the best
kind cf testimony from the
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
of people who own Waterbury Watches that you
would crave for no other sensation during the re-
mainder of
YOUR NATURAL LIFE.
Latitude, longltide, temperature, or barometric
pressure have nothing to do with it. All races
and all peoples, both in the old world and the
new,
KNOW ALL ABOUT THEM.
In the jangles of India, the prairies of America,
the sand wastes of Africa, the cultivated garden
grounds of Europe, the brigalow scrubs cf Aus-
tralia, or the cocoanut groves of the Pacific Isles
THE WONDERFUL WATERBURY
inevitably meets your gaze when your own 50-
guinea-jewelled- all • over - back - ac ion ■ lockstitch-
antiquity has gone back on you, and you have
been compelled to ask the nearest man if it is
anywhere
NEAR DINNER TIME.
The Waterbury Company have established
agencies everywhere. They own the largest
watch factory in the world, and they make ihi-
best watch in the world at a nominal price, and
at the rate of
2000 PER DAY.
They establish agencies, and send their repre-
sentatives into all parts of the earth, and iheir
name stands at the head of the list of
PIONEERS OF CIVILISATION.
The Waterbury has been proved to be the best
and cheapest timekeeper in the world, and if you
have not already tried it, you can easily do so for
the small sum of
THIRTEEN AND SIXPENCE.
You can purchase it from any storekeeper or
dealer, or order it wholesale from Messrs. S. Hoff-
nung and Co , Feldheim, Qothelf, and Co , or T
Willis, and Co., and
YOU’LL NEVER REGRET IT.
Dixon’s American Graphite Pencil possesses all
the recommendations that a perfect pencil should
have, and none of the exasperating eccentricities
common to so many other brands.
FrpjtftMfßNC
Ta
fdf
fllß
XARtEST
jin the Colony.
SYDNEY.
kUU
Wt'mmsir*
BEFORE TAKING.
FROM LIFE.)
“ A mery i h'art doath good like a Medicine.”— Proverbs 17-c, 22 - v.
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORITE? I RON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,”
Contains all the elements essential to produce health and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, »'ures Diseases of all kinds. Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting IPe to activity and vigor, mak»s the feeble
strong, and p-educes an exhilarating effect unon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d., from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the Manufacturer, W. F. CA.UNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitations. Take no Substitute.
I m
••
AFTER TAKING.
(from life.)
T°
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS
AND
CASH WHOLESALE BUYERS.
I have the following DEPARTMENTS in ful
swing, and the GOODS are upon
show, ready for inspection
at my New Warehouse,
608 GEORGE-STRBET,
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER.
DEPARTMENT A.
FURNITURE of EVERY DESCRIPTION
FRAMEWORK of EVERY DESCRIPTION
AUSTRIAN CHAIRS and LOUNGES
AMERICAN CHAIRS and ROCKERS
FURNITURE COVERINGS
PIER GLASSES, TOILET GLASSES
OVERMANTELS, PICTURES
CLOCKS and BRONZES
ORNAMENTAL WARE.
DEPARTMENT B.
FURNISHING IRONMONGERY
SILVER and ELECTRO-PLATED WARE
CUTLERY and DESERT SERVICES
EARTHENWARE, GLASSWARE
CHINA WARE, TEA SETS
DINNER SERVICES, BREAKFAST SETS
TINWARE, BRUSHWARB
HOLLO WARE, MANGLES
COPPER FURNACES, TUBS, and BUCKETS.
DEPARTMENT 0.
IRON, BRASS and NICKEL BEDSTEADS
CHILDREN’S and YOUTH’S COTS
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES
BEDDING, MATTRESSES and PALLIASSES
KAPOK HORSEHAIR, FLOCK, FIBRE and
FLAX
MOSQUITOE CURTAINS md NET
SHEETS, BLANKETS, COUNTERPANES.
DEPARTMENT D.
CARPETS, MATS and MATTING
LINOLEUM. FLOORCLOTHS, RUGS
JAPANESE and CHINA BLINDS
TAPESTRIES, VELVETS, HAIRCLOTHS
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS
CORNICE POLES, ART BLINDS
WINDOW CURTAINS and HANGINGS.
DEPARTMENT E.
GENERAL DRAPERY, LACES, &c.
LINENS, CALICOES, MUSLINS
DEPARTMENT F.
MERCERY, TIBS and SCARVES
READY-MADE CLOTHING
HATS, CAPS and GLOVES
SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, STUDS
SHIRTS and UNDERCLOTHING.
DEPARTMENT G.
BOOTS and SHOES ;
COLONIAL, ENGLISH,
FRENCH, GERMAN,
LACES, POLISH. &c.
Apply for CATALOGUES.
JOHN LAWLER
608 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“ SOMETHING SOFT.”
The everyday meaning of which is that the
gentleman perfers some one or other of the liquid
mysteries which are fearfully and wonderfully
made for the support of people with local optionlst
tendencies. Under the guise of “something soft”
quite a variety of beverages get pushed across the
counter in return for the small coins, which—hav-
ing escaped the Scylla of the collection plate,
are doomed to the Charybdis of the cheerful bar.
Sometimes a gin and soda gets mistaken for pep-
permint and pump-water, or brandy and curacoa
passes itself off for sarsaparilla, and escapes detec-
tion until after it has passed the palate of the
victim and he has gone too far to recede, and has
no better alternative than to tip up the glass
smartly and get the agony over as soon as may be.
It is impossible to help sympathising with the suf-
ferers from these awkward mishaps, they do so
thoroughly abhor the taste of strong drinks, and
they look so miserable until they can get rid of
the taste with a clove or a carraway, or some
other application wisely provided by all humane
landlords for the purpose. But even with the
greatest care these little mistakes will happen now
and then. The only real safeguard is to ask for
Clausen’s Lage". It is decidedly “something
soft,” a perfectly pure and harmless drink, a
staunch ally of temperance and a good honest,
wholesome beverage, with a splendid reputation.
It is better suited to the exigencies of the
climate than any other drink known, and it is un-
questionably the best Lager Beer ever introduced
into Australia. It you have not yet experi-
mented with it, do so now. All first class
hotels keep it, and it may be ordered from
Messrs. Mason Brothers, limited, Fesq and Co.,
Tooth and Co, Allb and Co., Burrows and
Gleeson, Lucas Brothers, R. Butcher and
Co., J. T and J. Toohey and Co., Tidswell,
Wilson, and Co., A. Thompson and Co,, C. Bath
and Co., Cooper, Nathan, and Co., Darcey and Co.»
A. Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co., Stewart and
Co., De Lissa and Phillips, and others.
The latest “ outrage ” is reported from
Brunswick (Vic.), where little Rose Roach, aged
10, states that she was decoyed away by the
glitter of a pew bronze penny artfully dangled
before her eresby a bad mldshipmite, and de-
coyed away from her happy home to a den in
Little Bourke-s’reat. This story saved her from
BRAIN AND MUSCLE.
CENTENNIAL POET (dejectedly) : “ THERE ARK LAURELS FOR EVERYONE BUT ME.”
beicg whipped for staying out late, but the doctor
who was called in said there was nothing the
matter with Rose that couldn’t be healed by
violent concussion with a switch, and the police
can’t find the midshipmite.
One Reason
Why diseases of the bladder and urinary organs
are so difficult to cure Is that they frequently
have no pronounced symptoms. Dh. bell’s
(Kidney and Liver) bitters are peculiarly
adapted to the cure of these complaints and go
at once to the seat of the trouble, giving relief at
once.
Are you suffering from liver disorder, pains in the side or
under the shoulder blades, foul tongue, or bi'iousness?
Are you suffering from nervous weakness and feel
unfit for your daily duties? If so go to your chemist for
Dunstone's Compound Essence oe Dandelion ted
Liver Pills, and you will get instant relief and a sgfedy
ai d permanent cure. Bead testimonials wrapped with each
bottle, of wonderful cures effec ed by this medicine.
Dunstone's Dandelion, 53 per bottle; Liver Pills, Is per
box, of all Druggists Be certain to ask for Dunstone's
Wholesale agents; Elliott Bros.. Ltd., Sydney.
Tattersall's Monster Consultations.— A nniversary Handi-
cap, run January 28th instead of 26'.h, 1888. 2000 Sitbscri -
t ers at £1 each. First Horse, £ 1000 ; Second, £300; Third.
£200 Starters, ±250; Non-starters, £250; to be divided
amongstthem. Anniversary Handicap, run January 28.1888.
10 000 Subscribers at £1 each. F rat Hone, £5000; Second,
£2000 ; T bird £1000. Starters, £1000; Noo-startera. £10l0’;
to be divided amongst them. The Carrington February
Grand Handicap to be run at Carrington Ground, February
18th. to 25.h, 1888. 5000 Subs"rihars at £1 each Fust Man,
£2000 ; Second, £750; Third, £500; Fourth, £250; Starters,
£750; Nonstarters, £750; to be divided amongst them.
Address, “ Xattersall,” care of Mr G. Adams, Tattersall’s
Hotel, Sydney/
William's Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in apylie »tion-sure In effect. This id the only genuine
Inse;t Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it ii perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
dest uctive to ihem. Sold in Is. b lies by all chemist! and
storekeepers. Manufactured inly by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutic 1 ! Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown. Whole-
sale from Meta s E'liott Bros , and E. Prosser & Co.*
NO HOSPITAL NEEDED.
No palatial hospital needed for Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters' yati-ntc, n r large.salaried talented puffers to tell
what D' Soda’s American Hop Bitters will do o- cure, as
th* v tall their own story by their certain and absolute cures
at home. “ New York Independent."
Marcus Clarke oaca prophesied that the
religion of the future in Victoria would be “ a sorb
of mortified Presbyterianism,” and, judging from
the present inflamed condition of Melbourne Pres-
byterianism, the forecast seems likely to come
true. Inflammation generally goes before mor-
tification.
The Australian Christian World says
that Arabia is waiting for the Gospel. Well, let
her wait. But, in the meantime, let her have
some rum to go on v. ii h
A GREAT ENTERPRISE
The Dr.ScuIe's American Hop Bitters Manufacturing
Company is one of Richest, r s greatest business enterprises.
Their Dr. Sonia’s American Hop Bi'ters have reached a sale
beyond all precedent, hav t g, from their intrinsic value,
found their way into almost every household in the land.
“Graphic.’’
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
A Good Remedy eor a Cold —On going to bed take a
dose of Freeman’s Chlorodyne, either in v au r or camphor
mixture. The diaphoretic action of this excalient remedy
speedily produces a general glow, followed by a free perspira-
tion, during which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is obtained,
and on waking in the morning the cold will be found to have
disap pearered. The certainty of the action of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne is very remarkable in Ague; it frequently pre-
vents an attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of the
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries F eeman s
Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the us a of Quinine, and
in the tea gardens r f India no'hing else is given for Agu-
and other forms of Fever. A Physician writes, “ In a sub
tropical climate, such as New South Wales, Freeman’s
Chlorodyne is simply invaluable " —Sold everywhere through-
out I he Colonies. Insist upon having "/reeman’s ’’ only.
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an
K lephant.
Chronic Coughs, Cot ds Bronchitis and pulmonary
Troubles can be cured by fccoTi s Emulsion oe Pure
Cod Liver Oil with Hypophgsphitks. We have absolute
proof of this from all sections of the world. Ie is as palatable
as milk Try it before it is too late. “Gentlemen:-! think
It is only fair to yoa to say that my wife had been laid up a
month with a very sharp attack of bronchitis, courle i with a
very distressing cough throujh pulmonary affection of the
lungs, and the cough had become so troublesome that she
was scarcely able to obtain two hours rest in succession I
obtained a bottle of ‘ Scott s Emulsion which gave her
immediate relief, and six bottles have restored her to her
usual state 1 1 health. I am gentlemen, yours truly,
February 17th 1886. 1 Geo. Faulkner,
Timekeeper Hallamshue Works, Sheffield.
Large and small sizes sold by all chemists.
Many Medicines
Now on the market owe what virtue they possess
to the presence of poweiful and poisonous drugs.
Dr, bell’s (Kidney and Liver) bitters are
purely vegatable, and will not injure the feeblest
and most delicate person.


1i23/porta,ia.t!
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
the onlt
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
BEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Be* to Inform their many patrons and the public
that as the duty on Instruments terminate on
’ Sept. 30th j they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVERI
o
ACCORDEONB, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 15/-, 17/6, 81/-
2 51; 30/-, 10/-, to £6.
Speciality t Patent steel noted Aocordeon, double
-•i bellows, 27/6.
•i Patent German Silver Reeded Ao-
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
1 8, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 10/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Laohenal Anglo German 35/-
„ ~ steel notes 60/-
7/6, 10/6, 16/-, 20/-, 26/-, 30/-, to £2O.
peolalby: Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
tf>, 7/6, 10/-, 12/8, 16/-. 17/8, 20/-, 26/-, SO/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality i Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/8, 8/8, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/., 16/-, up to £7 10e.
About 200 different sorts In stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10a.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
boiui mm mis,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/6,1/-, 4/6,
6/- and 6/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d,, and la. each.
River and Copper Strings, 9d., la., and la. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERT KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Bolter, Cello, Viola, Double Base, Harp,
Mar, ftc., fto.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN.
674 GEORGE STREET,
d
m
jEciem* on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for everv form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FEOM
vft!
V/
Scrofula on Neck
PI M PLES to SCROFU LA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every specie* of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from Infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cure* and Beautiflers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
lor years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
iicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
«s pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
Is. Towns & Co., New South Wale*,
CUTICURA RESOLVES , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henca
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skik Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Saap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies 1
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ror Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
sl. Ki Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ino icvp, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prep arid bt t**
Potter Drag A Chemical Co., fl-a
atssli
f
df
fd
fd
The
‘POTSHOT’
Camera,
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up and effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridicule every
Incident included within the scope of its vision. The POTSHOT Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of toe class known as “DETECTIVE” Cameras. At toe same time
an Immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
Imported by us, and they are well worth toe attention of toe general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
UOHTNER AM) CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
f
d
fd
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITS 1 '
208 to 209 Kent-steeet,
Sydney,
Hare always in STOCK, for
HAT.K to the TRADE and
WHOLBSALB BUY K R S
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA.
AND
■ ART H RN W A K 3
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and 00, B
Cognac.
~ T.’OAYKN , a
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
M
OHUM * W *
In firulte, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Rallingi.
Dnieni and BiUmttei forwarded on Him
S. CVIMIIfCIHAia.
WTUWAaD-WWAMi
\ STK can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
W ting Saloon as the beat in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, Oeorge-streeb, six doors from
Qoeens-streel* A, OOOPBM, Proprietor.
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR " PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to euforee the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
231, OLARENOB-BTRBBT.
Q-BD GBD.
We hare Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to band and Regular Shipmen coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation tor commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound In cloth, and contains over 100 prescript
tlons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address i Doctor W. K,
Parker, Foit Office Chambers, earner Boarke and
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne. Vie.
N
KiWTON AND LAMB.
JTOKHiTUKB and PIANOVOfre*
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERED*
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL STRUS S
HULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.-SIDS
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY OHAIR3
CARVING riHA IKS. and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match. NEWTON AND LAMB,
(ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
V
S 3?
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tlon, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous ositiona
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 25/-,
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. 6d.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up
bolstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs; also, elegantly finished
in Kmbridery, Plush, &o. NEWTON & LAMB.
f
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTA
WRITING DESKS, of varl
ons sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
ing Trays, Stationery Draw
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ru er and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
meats by movable partitions to admit of enlarg ■
ing or diminishing the space when required. Look a
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
□ □
Hi
Drawing room oa
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
MOS'V CELEBRATED MAKERS.
df
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB.
d
fd
'¥>B!DSTBADS, all ilaii
Mlokel-pUted and Blaek
and Bran. ®reat variety.
Bedding,—All description! at
lowest rates.
NBWION & LAMB.
f
SPRING MATTRABSBI
Woven Wire, bail
make i also, Spiral Sprint'
Price, trom lie. eaeP.
CHEAP FURNITURE,—Pine Tables, from
IBa. Cd. j Dining Tables, from 20a. | Kitchen
Dreaasra, from 27e. 6d.j Waabetanda, from 13a. 6d.|
Cheats of Diawara, from AOs.; Wardrobes, from
80s. i Cedar Chiffonlera, from 80a.; Cedar Side<
boards, from S 3 &oh| Clothes Horses, from IBs. Sfi,
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 60s.
KWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW BOOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING fc O'CONNELL STREETS
AND


A GRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW
±S L SOUTH WALES.
GREAT CENTENNIAL INTERCOLONIAL
EXHIBITION.
JANUARY, 21 to 31, 1888.
IN CELEBRATION OF THE CENTENARY.
JUDGING DAY, TUESDAY, JANUARY 21.
OFFICIAL OPENING
By His Excellency, LORD CARRINGTON,
G.C M G.,
On WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25,
At 1 o’clock.
£5OOO will be competed for by upwards of
1000 Exhibits,
Which will represent the
GREAT INDUSTRIES OF THE COLONIES
LI VE STOCK,
Horses. Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, Poultry, Dogs.
WINE,
n ' *
i - M1 m .«i m * WOOL.
SUGAR, and SUGARCANE.
| i.FARM PRODUCE, Grand Trophies.
DAIRY PRODUCE, Grand Trophies.
HORTICULTURAL—PIants, Flowers, Fruit.
AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY and IMPLE.
MENTS.
MANUFACTURES—In Rich Variety.
MINERALOGY.
TECHNOLOGY.
PRODUCTS,
Animal and Vegetable.
PHOTOGRAPHY.
INVENTIONS,
Various, of great value.
High economic interest attaches to a display
Of no less than
3 PATENTED SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
All of which
WILL BE AT WORK
(By steam power)
In competition for excellence.
The recently-developed and perfected
“ REVOLUTION”
IN THE DAIRY
Will be illustrated by
5 COMPLETE and PERFECT
MODEL DAIRIES,
All in full work,
Showing the entire processes
Of
CREAM SEPARATING
And
BUTTER-MAKING
By
STEAM MACHINERY.
NOTE —The Importance of the dairy In our
everyday economy has induced the council to erect
a commodious building especially for this section.
HONEY BEES AT WORK
In
OBSERVATION HIVES.
THE HUNTING FIELD
Will be Illustrated in the Competition for the
Two Great
JUMPING PRIZES—
1. “ THE TRIBUNE ” HUNTERS’ PLATE.
2. THE LICENSED VICTUALLERS’ PLATE.
TROTTING.
THREE TROTTING RACES OF GREAT
INTEREST WILL BE CONTESTED—
1. DISTANCE HANDICAP TROT.
2. MAIDEN TROT.
3. CHAMPION TROT.
The EXHIBITION will contain
A MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION of the BEST
PRODUCTIONS
Of the Colonies, and will afford an unprecedented
opportunity for the study of excellence In all
branches of material wealth.
Open daily at 11 a m,, close at 5 p.m.
The Exhibition Grounds may bo entered either
at MAIN GATES (by Tram) or through RIFLE
RANGE, or through CENTENNIAL PARK, five
minutes from Qaeen-street, Woollahra.
ADMISSION:
MEMBERS FREE, on presentation of their tic-
kets of Membership.
NON-MEMBERS, Is. ; CHILDREN, 6d.
(Except on Judging Day, 2s. 6d; Children, Is.)
PRIVATE CARRIAGES ONLY wIU be ad-
mitted. Fee, ss. (2 or I wheels.) No horsemen
admitted.
'The splendid Band of the New South Wales
Naval Artillery will be preseet by the kind per i
mission of Commander Lee and Officers of the
Corps.
F, WEBSTER, Secretary.
NOTE.—£I la. sent to the secretary constitutes
membership, and secures FREE ADMISSION to
the Society’s Ground cn all occasions throughout
the year.
Ladies Tickets of Admission, 10s. 6d.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Company, Limited, 24 Pitt-s reet,
Sydney New South Wales.
THE CONVERTED CHINAMAN.
The regenerated Chinee is a charming
creature, with a beautiful, simple spirit. The
saved Celestial whote story we will tell went by
the tender, rhythmical cognomen of Slug Ling ;
he was not gorgeous as the blushing rose, neither
did he smell as sweet; he had a complexion like
unto boiled pork, and his features were twisted
all awry, like the reflection of a scorched, gutta-
percha doll in a polished door-i nob; but his face
was illumined with the light of faith, and the
sweet, bland smile, which ever played about his
dark almond eyes, distracted common attention
from a mouth that appeared to have been exag-
gerated by a heavy fall on a sharp wooi-axe
when he was yet a boy. He was a man to be loved
more for his sterling good qualities than for his
personal beauty. Sing Ling was still a wanderer in
the mire and clay of Paganism when he smiled
over the back gate of a Wesleyan household in a
Melbourne suburb, and with a soft, insinuating
foreign brogue requested the hired girl to trade.
He offered “cabbagee,” and “letucee,” and
“gleen-pea,” at a very low figure; and was so
deferential, and smiled so coaxingly withal, t*at
the maiden had no heart to say him ray, and so
he secured the patrouageof the reverendhousebold,
and included it in his good will. From that day
dated his reformation. The parson soon came to
notice his cheery green-grocer, and would oc-
casionally hold the suave, Celestial idolater in
converse. The reverend gentleman was a good
and faithful servant, and never lost an opportunity
of doing his level best to snatch a brand from the
burning. He Introduced a theological element
into their commune, and pointed out the
fallacy of bowing down before a grotesque mud-
idol, explaining clearly and learnedly that such
worship was not in accordance with the latest
scientific thought ; and John smiled bashfully,
yet sweetly the while, and advanced no argument
in opposition ; he only said : “ Welly good, me
saveeand preserved his self-possession and
good humour, though the holy Yang-tse-Kiang
was degraded to the level of the Yarra. It £
impossible to get a Chow mad on questions of
religion, you know; he doesn’t care a copper
“cash” whether Pharaoh was lost in the Red
Sea, or stuffed by an old-time Egyptian and
patented as an improved cigar-sign, and he never
flies up and strikes you with a hoe-handle if you
assert your firm conviction that Joss doesn’t know
enough to get in out of the rain—he only grins
like Folly’s mask on a pie-melon, and agrees with
everything you say in a manner calculated to
make a saint caper round and break the crockery,
and swear. There is really no wholesome humour in
debating religion with a Chinee.
• * *
Sing always smiled the smile of a
prattling babe, and bis instructor was en
couraged; he bought more greens from S.
Ling, and cracked them up to his neigh-
bours, and Sing’s business began to freshen and he
paid greater attention to the parson’s exhortations
and, if possible, smiled a broader, gentler smile
than ever before. Time flew, and Sing awoke to
the absurdity of the belief of his fathers and
became a Wesleyan. He wore a black suit on
Sundays and attended the church with becoming
regularity, and all the elders dealt with him and
introduced him to their friends, and he bought a
horse and cirt and started to get wealthy at a
gallop. He became a pillar of that temple, always
contributed to the platter, and was ever deeply
affected by the sermons. He was careful to wash
himself every day, and people pointed him out as
the converted John, and it was generally under-
stood that he was doing a power of good amongst
his idolatrous, degraded countrymen. After a
while, he was permitted to have a say at prayer-
meetings, and to give addresses to the members
of the Band of Hope, and the congregation said
it was very touching. Sing began to put on fat,
and be did a bigger business in garden stuff than
any other sway-mouthed, lop-eared child of the
sun in Victoria. The parson was proud of his
convert, but humble ; he did not blow about him
much, and when people congratulated him on his
great work he coughed meekly, and said he was
but a lowlv implement in the hands of the
“ Loard ; ” his was not the credit.
* * *
And then all of a sadden the crash came.
One day Sing Ling’s pastor and two or three of
the ofii’e-bearers of his tabernacle happened to be
in the vicinity of the Chinese joss-house, and they
resolved to go in and see the proceedings of the
blinded heathen in his lair. A small, grotesque
Chow dressed in bed-furniture graciously showed
them round ; he was a mean little party with a
meagre and dismal whisker and a face Ilka
glazed crockery, and he revealed many curious
things to the “red-headed devils.” But he
insisted that the visiting Methodists should
keep out of a certain little room, and when they
grew curious and tried to force an entrance, he
raved in excited Shanghai and-butted them with
his head. Then they bore him down by sheer
force of numbers, and feather-bedded their aggre
gate fat against him, and he was swept away by
the advancing torrent of humanity. Feebly eja-
culating “ Chi hi ” he went down on the floor, and
the Methodists burst in, and saw
• *
It was the sanctuary of Joss himself.
Perched on a little platform was a horse-beaded
idol, painted red and green, and stuffed with
straw, which protruded in festoons from his
burst chest, and In front of him grovelled Sing
Ling, got up In the rig of his people, and mumbling
a prayer in pigeon English. He was cursing the
Methodists and all their works—cursing the con-
gregation which listened to bis discourse, and the
elders who bought his “ gleen pea,” and the
parson who had rescued him out of the bond of
sin and the gall of iniquity ; in fact he was
cursing everybody and everything in a voluble
mixed dialect which seemed to contain more pro-
fanity than any other language on the face of the
earth. “ Sing Ling!” gasped the shepherd in
tones of awful reproach, as he staggered back-
wards and clutched at something to keep him
from falling. “ Sing Ling I” shrieked the elders
of the tabernacle. “Look!” groaned Brother
Brown; “ the silver candlesticks from our har-
monium !” The chief Stiggins looked, and there
ware the missing candlesticks standing one on
each side of the old pot-headed Idol. Also the
Blble-ousbion was there sewn like a saddle on
the back of the wretched deity, and six
prayer-books, and a dozen silver-headed
walking-sticks which had strayed from the
fount of bliss, and hats which had gone
amisslng while their owners were fighting
the good fight were festooned around him, and
the Stiggins own umbrella shaded his head,
t ‘Alas, Sing Ling!” said the pastor, solemnly.
Sing Ling stood before him with downcast eyes,
and shuffled with bis feet. “Me bolly them," he
said, sadly. “ You take ’em, all li,” and he tried
to smile, but it was a sickly failure The reverend
gentleman and his followers left that house taking
their property along—left that child of iniquity with-
out another word. Their hearts were too full for
utterance. The House of God had been got at.
and the man in whom their trust was placed had
hooked things out of the blessed sanctuary.
From that day forth Sing Ling never again
hawked vegetables to the doors of the faithful.
His sun had set, and he humped his baskets into
the back yards of the believers never any more.
It was said of the late shent-per-ahent
Aaron Waxman that he kept the trunk contain-
ing his securities near the head of his bed and lay
awake to hear them accumulate interest.
Thb Henry George aspect of the tariff question
has penetrated from the country districts into
Sydney, and a head-centre New South Wales
Land Nationalisation League has been formed,
pledged to the single tax method of raising
revenue, viz., by an appropriation by the State of
all unimproved land values. All improvements
would then go free, industry would be absolved
from paying tribute, and the only thing the nation
would annex for the expenses of government,
and the benefit of the whole community would be
the wealth caused by the needs of population, the
increase of the birth-rate and the aggregate pros-
perity attendant upon communal energy and en-
terprise. A t present this wealth created by the
people is absorbed wrongfully by the owner of
private property. Make Land Nationalisation
a reality, and it will flow into the coffers of the I
TAILOR (loq.): “I SHOULD LIKE TO SEE THE OTHER CHEQUE."
State —the people—which really created it. The
pew movement shows plenty of native vigour,
and the young Australians are rallying round its
standard. At a recent meeting of the newly-
formed l eague, the following members were ap-
pointed a provisional committee to draw up a
manifesto, and lay the planks of the platform :
B. W. FoxALt, F. M. Bladon, M.A., Hugh
Mahon, W. H. Waldon, J. V Dobbie, 8.A.,
John Farrell (Lithgow), F. Flowers. W. H.
Traill, J. F. Archibald, and F. J. Broomfield.
People who have only been born recently
have missed an awful lot of fun. This is a solemn
age; the existing generation has gone back on
the larks of antiquity, and doesn’t tear round as
its ancestors used to do, but booms along in
serene stupidity down the corridors of Time.
Thirty years ago, however, a man could have a
row in Australia any time he wanted to, and he
wanted pretty often. There was an ancient miser
about Melbourne in those days, and he lived all
alone in the solemn grandeur of a two-storey
house in the suburbs. He died there, too, and at
his unobtrusive funeral there was only one
mourner, a splay-footed individual with a weeper
round his cabbage-tree hat, who turned up at the
last moment, and explained that he was the
nephew, sole relative, heir, executor, administra-
tor, and assign of the deceased. There was no
one present to dispute his claim, so he followed
the corpse to the grave, and, when the solemn
orgy was over,'he went to take possession of the
house and its contents, and become a rich man
right off. But, when he got to the front door, he
was staggered to find the residence already
in the possession of a large, middle-aged
woman, who announced herself from the
window as the long-deserted wife of the
interred proprietor; and, backed up by her
son—a long, unlicked cub fresh from the woods—
she called him a swindler and an impostor, and
said that if he came in she would make him wish
he had never been born It was all In vain that
the nephew with the weeper charged frantically
at the front door and endeavoured to burst it in—
the lady leaned out of the upper window and hit
him on the head with a rake, and he retired with
considerable less. Then he endeavoured to rush
the back entrance, and falling that he climbed
half way up the wall with his nails only to be
shot down again, till at lest towards dusk he re-
tired in tatters, and camping in the front garden
started a siege, and waited for something to turn
up. For six solid hours he kept at his post, and
at last about midnight ho was cheered by the
arrival of two more wives who slithered over the
wall with their three children. The garrison was
watching the front, and the new arrivals sneaked
in silently by a side window, and a gay and cheer-
ful fight arose in these premises, which ended in
the first wife and the cub being launched out into
the back yard in a miserable condition. Then dis-
sension started within. The third wife and her
two sons said they could heave the second wife
and her unmarrie d daughter into the street, and
after a lordly racket the mother and child were
also thrown out, and, being out, they fell into the
hands of the first wife and the cub, who were
filled with a thirst for vengeance and who chal-
lenged them to fight. They fought accordingly,
end the mother and daughter were ignominloualy
defeated. But just as her jealous rival
let the second wife up and she was sitting on a
wood pile, wailing* from the effects of her chas-
tisement, there arose a perfect father of a row
inside the house. Another wife had got in by a
side door, and, aided by her first husband’s eldest
son by a former marriage and her second cousin
twice removed, she was making the third wife
and her family wish they had never been born,
while the nephew danced around and rubbed his
hands, and got down into the cellar and drank the
heahh of his deceased relation, and said the old
man must have been a gay old dawg to run away
from four wives and about 16 children, and if
there was anything he really liked it was a good
rousing fight. Presently the third wife went
down, and the other lady sat on her head and
was fast choking her, but a timely diversion
was made by a woman whom the deceased had
eloped with, and who was supported by a mus-
cular youth who had been left on her doorstep in
his infancy. Military evolutions took place all
over the premises now, but, ultimately, the fourth
wife was stunned by a blow from a family picture,
and her first husband’s eldest son by a former
marriage was driven into the coal-cellar and
locked up, with his nose bleeding. The victor
camped in the house for the night, but, towards
morning, the place was stormed again by the
forces in the back garden, and then the police
came and arrested the whole crowd and locked
them up—all except the youth with the bleeding
nose, who was forgotten in the coal-hole, and only
escaped by eating his way through the door two
days later. The old man’s property was swal-
lowed up in the Eiquity Court at last, and the
after fate of the wives is not recorded. 1 his little
story is based on the legend of an old pioneer.
We were always of opinion that the old pioneer
was somewhat of a liar, and now we are sure of it.
Haynes says that Melville bnries a man in
a stained Oregon-plne coffin, and allows the corpse
to imagine right up to the day of judgment that
it is the best Richmond River cedar. Melville,
on the other hand, considers a Chinese-made zinc
coffin would be too good for Haynes.
Some ignoiaut wretch living down Colling-
wood way, who heard that Joseph Symes was
being prosecuted for spouting Freethought on the
Melbourne wharf on Sundays, thought it was Jce
f/“ e > of the Age, that was run In, and sent
his mite ” of half-a-crown to the Age office as
the nucleus of a defence fund I It was returned
with disgust.
