

®7onr
, *ocer for
L
Fry's Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter."— Lancet,
At the Rooms, 16 Collins-street West, at Two o’clock sharp (under instructions from T. S. Sheppard, Esq.).
investors, speculators, business men, private buyers and Others.
IMPORTANT to the GENERAL PUBLIC.
aof accommodating a large fl jet of seagoing vessel*. Fcom the entrance of corner inlet to the prop wed Waarf the distance is about 4 miles, with a depth of water
Vi t 0 1(5 fethons. Agaia, the Toora Property is l nnsitatsly opposite the grevb sanatorlu n, “ Wdson’s Promonotory,” now attracting so much attention throughout the
TOORA. TOORA. -•«
On the Great Southern Railway.
"Ho
The Proprietor of this grand Estate has determined to Subdivide all the space between the Station and the Main Road from Port Albert to Foster, containing
L acres. This important line of railway passes through the TOORA ESTATE, situate on the margin of Comer Inlet, and the construction of the Second Section,
Toora Station, will be let on the 26th November.
Being on the margin of Corner liJet, with the extensive and safe harbour shown on plan, TOORA naturally becomes at a bound the centre of a vast and ever-
Fishing Industry. the chief fishing grounds of’Corner Inlet, and the bays outside of Wilson’s Promontory, are within Two Hours’ Sail of the Toora Jetty,
c
Hi
the greatest despatch can be. given for Fish and Oysters to'the Melbourne Market. The TOORA ESTATE has a commanding position with a richness of soil equal
Uftd in Victoria, and is destined in a very short time to be by far the most important railway station on the Great Southern Line. Next to Hobson’s Bay, TOORA
most important Port on the Victorian coast where vessels of any draught can approach and anchor with safety. Already a Tramway is laid down from the
P to the Jetty, where Schooners and small Steamers regularly ply.
A reference to the Plan, however, will show that a channel of deep water, surveyed by C immanier Stanley, R.N., carries from 4£ to 10 fathoms of water to a
lately oppo3lt9 the TOOR A ESTATE. All that Is wanted is a Jebcy from she shore to this chatinol. and a perfectly safe and commodious harbour is at once pro-
■L - .
* This grand picturesque Country can be reached by boat in an hour from Toora.
TOORA is sumunled on the East, North and West by a Marvellously Rich Agricultural, Dairying, and Pastoral Country ; and, moreover, its Maritime
cannot fail to attract the Com nsrclal Inbsremrse of ths large population nov occupying that vast area of country extending from Toora to the North Gippsland
Many of the Leading Spurs, those Grand Natural Highways, trend to and junction at Toora.
, a Enough has been sa’d to show the Great Importance of Toora Township, yet it has a Startling Future of another character. Tin and Gold have been recently
fh the Surronndi ig Hills in such qu*ntitie3 that 18 L9a>93 hsve been already tskeu up, and the prospects from those which have commence! work are so Rich that
teral Wealth of the District bids fair to make Toora rival the famous Broken-hill country in population and importance.
The present nucleus of a mining community must of necessity rapidly increase Into a large population, whose interests In every respect centre at Toora.
$ . TOORA, already an Important place, is destined to become, long before the Railway has received its final touch, the greatest Emporium of Trade along the entire
H great Southern Railway.
V
' Get Plans, get Plans, and visit the Property before the day of sale. The Vendor Is anxious that every intending Purchaser should see for himself, and verify all
in its favour. The means of reaching Toora is by Coach from Sale or by Steamer from Melbourne. Full Particulars can be had from the Auctioneers.
m ~'
—One-third Cash; the Balance at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, bearing 6 per cent.
=
lt ors: Messrs. Watson, Morgan & Gill, Melbourne. Surveyor: Mr. Ed. Scanlon, Yarram.
j AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION :
ttiEE, sum a co, is ciiins-mt west, Mem,
V
T HCMAS B’CJKRtWS, Jh_lTo©xt.
The Bulletin


HARD MAS BMfc
4*o
t*€ACU
tSCUIT MANUFACTURERS
fijrwas
LOINiTHABQHS
w*m
&
TOBACCO
111
IXSOPSONS
*
o
V
ISIR ROGER
1§
DIXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Seoond Briok Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated comer of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
PAIN
I |*AIK PAIKX
cuaa MA »AIN»
fhe best known remedy for RHEUMATISM
(SURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS. Mo
*od taken Internally cures DIARRHOEA
3 rSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and aU. other
sternal aches and pains.
. »«<4 K»erjrvlKlf
§ & IWBITOh, Ma mmcTOit.
,9m ***** JL> t! VUNt V;
Ir^
E
PRESERVATION}
BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 BoNBDAiia Stbkbt East, Miibobbhi.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to ail
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire • speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mall Ss. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
FOR SALE.—Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
McLEaJS BKOH., KI(»G a co.,
IBOKMOM GSRS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
61S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WANTED IN EVERT HOUSE.
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
HkterlM Capital _ _
ratd-ap Capital .. _
Vital la«*m lut Half V«u .
£549,151
£349,554
•8*9,534
■< * >-
IIPOSIT! I Per tut. to TWELTE UOITES.
AVINGS" BANK BRANCH.
T* PwMM who desire to
Who wish to Mature IN’
IVBBY DAT THAT „ „ ,
Wi BHANOI often the Tory beat opportunity. Depositor* in branoh
9M«iTa nVMpw —at, ptr annum upon their VaUy Balance
4KFLI ri'BB *or Borrowers. fESIS LISESAL
m
w*
‘t P5--~ t :i ..5i :i!'! ii-M-jf' -
*B2 =S
■■ liJi?|!l]|!tlil(ll'L Hi. : 111 111 i>j.J" II j IflliWnT; I 1 ’!.
Ij fMf i
; ;■;!!; if •*:* 11 n 11. r i •
I :: it ri If || !:• I, i I I I I» »•••.«• f- i I
o
VO
c*
%
IRONMONGERS
512
o
H/
o
%
H
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
EFFECTUALLY DESTROY!
ALLNOXIOUS INSECT!
FLEAS.FLiES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHES.AND !S
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIROS D(
FOWLS OROTHER' : .
ANIMALS
supiloxautci. \
SnV»’ *«nYn& V&qUhb, latanftm ¥Yi«-\rewit kSau \\«E\Hni\AiXv
BLKCnK.O-FTIA.TKD W ARK, CTOTLKKT, TOOTJS.
SAB OOOKIKO STOVKS i—LBONIB TUBIOHSKB. JBAKH k WAIiUKt,
BRADVOKtTB WABHIMO lIAOHINKB. fcs.. In,
4
UiVMmAM'VH.
-MELBOURNE
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and BeW» re
the numerous imitations.
BUILDING ASSOCIATION^,
54 COLLINS STREET
£25 Contributing Sha l^
f
ent 0 .11
£JAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon P^ 0
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon thes®
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with ComP
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their
>
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares recei $
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had
£14. 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight forll y ear9 '-^_^ r( g***
■on. JOHN NIMMO, H.P., J.P., T - '
JAMES MIEAMS, M.P., J.P., «
Federal Coffee Pala^
CORNER Of
lEZingr cSs Colliza-s Streets, l^elloo-CJ.^
Containing 560 ROOMS, ia now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitor*-
PRIVATE SUITES sf ROOMS, Magnificently Furnlshe* 1 ' d tf/
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Ouisfo®
Appointments Unequalled in the City. Hfl HI
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FLO u
With exoellont Menu, presided over by an experienced Chtf, assisted by a civil and obliging *taft
— 1 2 n0^
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION Jl
01
HOT, GOLD «nd SHOWER BATHS.
WIGHT PORTE* ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
TKT.IfIR.Ma ADD LJCTTKKS PROMPTLY KBYLL* 0
ma
*>•


The Bulletin
Vol 9—No. 459.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24. 1888.
Price, 6d.
Railway Speight.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
iterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Found Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
xm have Tie Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
sity The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
the National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.”
f aOF«I®TORg ? BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. t
Limited*
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
'ji.s I & Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
tpetr Annum ... ... £1 0 I
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 012 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... .1. 06 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
U be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
kaCHIBALD.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
6 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles ,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
nlian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
migth, or say 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
wmnunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
ihe address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
Satire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
'tee are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
■sf such MSS.
n.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1888.
THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
NOTICE TO OUR AGENTS.
We shall be glad to at once receive orders
for the Christmas Number of “ THE
BULLETINwhich will consist of a much
larger edition than that published by any
other weekly paper in Australasia, replete with
attractive matter and including a supplement
in five colours by Phil May. This supple-
ment, which is entitled “ JUMPS AND
JIM-JAMS, A TEMPERANCE SER-
MON,” will be one of the most humorous and
original drawings ever issued in this country,
and will certainly attain an enormous and
permanent popularity. The stories and verse
published in the number will be of exceptional
interest.
jgp To ensure full supply, early appli-
cation is absolutely necessary.
The Gathering of the Prophets.
At a ponderous feed given the other day by
Alderman Beniamin, of Melbourne, six Con-
aervatlve noblemen of various degrees of im-
portance were moved by the spirit, and ro e
in succession to demonstrate the beauties of
Imperialism and the necessity of tying Aus-
tralia for all time to the crazy wreck of the
British Empire. And jußt here it may be
pointed out, as a striking political pheno-
menon, that heavy feeding is almost in-
variably an incentive to Conservatism, and
that the flame of loyalty burns brightest in
the soul of the man who is gorged and som-
nolent with turtle. Conservatism, in its
most perfect form, Is the art of lying still
and letting the whole earth drift, and the
600 loyal guests who were stoked with ex-
pensive victuals at Mr. Benjamin’s table
were anchored down with food and longed
to loaf in easy chairs and be at rest. Con-
servatlsm means corpulent, unctuous content-
ment, and internal satisfaction, and Mr.
Benjamin’s guests had eaten themselves
into a state of dreamy happiness, and were
fully convinced for the moment that every-
thing that was was for the best. Radicalism,
Republicanism, Nationalism, Socialism, and
every other creed which has a tendency to
do anything that hasn’t yet been done, all
mean discontent, worry, mental exertion,
hurried motion, aggravation, thought,
and anxiety, and all these things seem
Mi’gar &nd uruatisfactoiy to ihe man
of soulful and intellectual fat, who views
his gracious Queen through a halo o’
meat and grease ; they lead to perspiration
too, and perspiration is ungentlemanly, and
they are associated with turmoil and dust —
things which are disgusting to think of
amidst the joyous atmosphere where the
salt of the earth drink to the health of estab-
lished institutions, and drivel about those
“ bonds ” which, as they are always in pro-
cess of being “further cemented,” ever
seem to be in need of repairs. Conservatism,
ia fact, is a parochial sentiment of self-con-
gratulation, propelltd and kept in motion by
food, and when Alderman Benjamin’s guests
had eaten all they knew, they rose to re-
mark, in effect, that this earth was a joyouß
place in which there wai tutkey and fine
linen : only a low class cf people who had to
hustle for dry bread refused to be satisfied,
and would keep on disturbing vested in-
terests when they wanted to be at rest.
• *
Of the six elevated mediocrities who grew
maudlin over the beauty of things in general
Lord Carington, the descendant of the
plain Smith of many years ago, was at once
the mosb incoherent and the most voluble.
Britain, he pointed out, at the commence-
ment of an oration which we are ready to
swear he did not write himself, would never
desert Australia, but would cling to her for
all time with the same deep devotion with
which Mrs. Mioawber clung to her partner
when the commission-trade was languishing,
and there was nothing doing in coals.
Britain yearned over these far-away colonies
and sent them Governors and Admirals and
cheap boots with brown-paper soles, and
exported to them her one-lunged consump-
tives and her pauper lunatics, and bestowed
upon them broken down peers whose manners
and customs were beastly and who tried to
seb new fashions in Australia by keeping
dogs under their beds in the mansions of that
uncultured land ; and Australia, he felt con-
vinced, would reciprocate these sentiments
and cling to the mother-country to the
bitter end :
The world knows this as well as we do ; the world
knows that no more interference would be allowed with
(Quebec or Capetown or Melbourne or Sjdney than with
Liverpool, Glasgow and Dublin—(loud applause)—and this
knowledge enables the Australian colonies to have a de-
fined policy in the Pacifio and to speak and sometimes to
act in a manner which would hardly be considered prudent
at this moment, whatever it might be in years to come,
as if we were living in what s ime would suggest as the
Utopia of the Pacific—an Australia unoffending and inde-
pendent if you will, but from its isolation and inoffensive-
ness voiceless among the nations and perhaps exposed to
perils which the heroism of its defenders might be unable
to avert.
. ® •
Australia, voiceless among the nations,
is to the British Tory the last and
lowest depth of degradation, and when
the orator drove this sentiment home
there was “ applause.” Australia, aban-
doned by England, would be powerless to
raise her voice about the doings of the
Turks and Bulgarians and Serbs in the
Balkan Peninsula ; she would have to lie
ow when Europe was convulsed over the
marriage of some German prince with a
polyglot cognomen, two rebellious sub-
jects, and only one shirt ; and when
an Afghan person that nobody ever
heard of before rose in insurrection
and seized upon a forgotten iuin which had
been slowly crumbling to dust since the days
of Abraham, and six empires stood upon the
verge of war until he let go and vanished
again into obscurity, nobody would take any
notice of Australia ; and if that neglected
Republic threatened to mobilise its army and
take a hand in the disturbance she would
merely arouse a shriek of laughter among
the bloated potentates of Europe. The
perennial squabbles about the cod-fish in-
terests on the shores of Newfoundland would
go on just as if Bhe had never existed, and in
the deep problems about the right of foreign
fishermen to purchase bait in Canadian
waters her voice would never be heard. In
her present situation as an outlying section
of the empire, Australia has a latent interest
in all these and a thousand other complica-
tions, but on the very day that the Austra-
lian Republic is proclaimed she will become
an isolated state, and her vested right to be
licked in everybody’s quarrel will vanish
never to be restored. She will be “voiceless
among the nations ” —and yet perhaps, when
she considers the four thousand millions
which aggregate Europe owes on account of
her “voice” and the 15,000,000 of armed
men who must be maintained that her
utterance may still be heard, Australia might
accept the position and be content.
It is just possible, too, that this feeling
might gain additional force from a deep
rooted conviction that the voice of England
i 3 growing apologetic and very faint, and
from the recollection that even in the days
when the voice was loud and blusterous it
was seldom raised on behalf of Australia.
The system of British protection for these
colonies was inaugurated by the regime of
the degraded New South Wales Corps; it
developed itself in the harrying of the Vic-
torian miners and the slaughter at the
Eureka Stockade ; and then for more than
30 years it was practically a blank until a
few days ago, when its existence was again
demonstrated by the attempt of an Imperial
officer to embezzle the Queensland navy.
Then the Northern colony raised her voice
among nations by despatching a few police-
men to assert her practical independence,
and the living Bymbol of British protection
was hauled ashore as ignominlously as if he
had been a carpet-bag. In the paths of war-
like glory British defence has been a cease-
less failure upon this continent, and the
shelter afforded by British diplomacy is
manifested by the lobb of half New Guinea
and by the resolution to let Australia shift
for herself in regard to the Chinese difficulty
and settle the problem on her own responsi-
bility by raising her voice among nations
and then waiting to see what will happen
next. But trilling questions like these are
best omitted in after-dinner oratory, and
leaving them behind,. Lord Cakington
hurried on to point out a new and somewhat
muddled and incomprehensible danger that
loomed ahead.
* * *
But while we are so secure from outward attack, we
may be exposed in time to another danger. As time goes
on the last formed colonies will, on account of their great
size, be sub-divided, and it may happen that on account
of some misunderstanding or disagreement some remote
portion of the Continent may announce its intention of
separating from the rest. Under such circumstances, it
is very evident England would be unable to give this
country material assistance in the retrieval of Australian
unity; but I venture to think that such a catastrophe
would be averted by the prompt and unanimous action of
those who are forming themselves in her different
colonies under different names, but which are in reality
sections of a natural or national party. To that great
Australian national party every man who has a spark of
affeotion for his country, or who has any stake or interest,
should belong with heart and soul. (Applause.) From
our union with England the colonies are so secure that
we can, with safety and dignity, disregard the aggressive
language forced from foreign potentates by political emer-
gencies. (Applause.) As a united national party, com-
bining all parties in one, we will be able to put down with
a strong hand any internal attempts of separatists. (Ap-
plause.) In this great national party we shall be able to
show the world that Australian unity is no South Sea
bubble. (Applause.) We shall be able to cement a
happy connection that binds us to the mother country
and help to consolidate the confederation of Anglo-
Saxons, which already exceeds the wildest dreams of am-
bition ever conceived by the greatest conqueror the world
has ever seen. (Loud applause )
The unfathomable complexity of this pro-
phecy passes all ordinary human comprehen-
sion. When some “ remote portion of this
Continent’'—in other words, some thinly-
peopled province lying far removed from the
great centres of population —secedes from
Australia, it naturally follows that it will
likewise secede from the Empire, for Aus-
tralia, in the opinion of Caring ton, is to re-
main an appendage of the British Crown tor
ever and ever ; and yet this same noble
viceroy candidly admits, in a moment of un-
happy truthfulness, that should such a seces-
sion take place England will be “unable’’
to cope with the difficulty. When some
fraction of a colony raises the flag of
insurrection England will stand from under
with a firm conviction that if she did any-
thing else she would be broken by the fall.
In theory, and while there is no mortal foe
in sight, Britain is prepared to crush any
and every natioa that threatens the peace
of Australia; whether this continent is
menaced by the moving myriads of China or
the serried hosts of Germany she is ready to
destroy them all with equal facility. But if
a visible antagonist, in the shape of that
small, forgotten province of Australia which
Cakington sees looming upon the horizon of
his dreams, should throw off its allegiance
and challenge her to do her worst the war-
like mother-country proposes to double up.
Her hold upon Australia is based entirely
on the assumption that she is able and will-
ing at all times to crush these mythical
assailants who, without her intervention,
would obliterate Australia from the map,
but if only a small fraction of the nation
she so ostentatiously protects should incline
to try conclusions with the protector of the
entire race that omnipotent bogey concludes
that it would be safer not to be there. The
task of defending British supremacy in Aus-
tralia, when this hour of need arrives is—
according to the political views of Caring-
ton—to be entrusted to the Australian
“ national party,” a proposition which faintly
suggests a wild, improbable dream of Caring-
ton possessed of the key of the street and
faintly entreating Sir Thomas M‘llwraith
bo throw him out the key-hole. Common
honesty forbids us to imagine that the
allusion is intended for the Australian
Natives’ Association, for the idea would
imply that that peaceful assemblage of
“loyal” dullards had stooped to steal the
name of the seditious association founded by
the insurrectionary Premier of Queensland,
and common-sense forbid-, us to imagine that
even Cakington could ha-> e painted a fancy
picture on the broad page of his intellect of
that helpless fossil clad in mail and leading
the loyalist armies of Australia. The only
possible conclusion therefore is that Britain,
in the hour of her despondency, has placed her
trust in the man who has so systematically
insulted her old traditions and set her lofty
pretentions at naught. Of course, among the
infinite possibilities of politics, it might
chance that the dream of the British Viceroy
would one day come to pass, bub the contin-
gency is not worth betting upon. When the
Sheik-ul-Islam becomes the prop and stay
of the Established Church in England, and
the Orange body goes on a pilgrimage to
Rome, and Cakington himself erects barri-
cades in Sydney and hoists the flag of uni-
versal anarchy, the contingency might be
worth considering, but not till then.
* •
A pathetic item of local spread-eagleism, in
the course of which the death of Mr. Dalley
is mixed up as an item of Centennial re-
joicing, is the only obher noteworthy
feature in Carington’s oration. By the
time he tailed off into helpless silence he
had successfully unfixed pretty nearly every-
thing that he wanted to support, and had
trodden the whole theory of Imperial Govern-
ment into the mud, and his deliverance at
Benjamin’s mess will be long remembered
as one of the worst things that ever hap-
pened to the gladsome Smith in the land
of his exile. The only possible item of
earthly stupidity which he omitted to
supply was successfully furnished by Mr.
Gillies, who looked forward with joy to
the time when Australians “ would be able
to support the grand from which
they had sprung,” and dry-nurse the beloved
mother-land in the fast-approaching days of
her second childhood as an act of filial duty
and a national token of eternal gratitude.
It would probably be useless to point out to
Mr. Gillies that the British fathers of the
Australian people are long since dead and
turned to dust; that their graves and last
resting-places in general are not, even from
a sentimental standpoint, worth labouring or
fighting for, and are of no practical use ex-
cept for Halloran and similar Stjen-
kinsesque bards to make poetry about; that
by the time Australia is in a position to de-
fend England—should she ever desire to do
so—the lapse of generations will have so far
wiped out all direct relationships' that we
will be under as great an obligation to fight
for America as for Britain ; and that in
these days of cosmopolitanism men do not
waste blood and treasure to protect an in-
animate mass of earth merely because their
remote ancestors lived or starved or were
hanged upon its surfac?. Facts like these
are wasted upon the Imperial driveller of
the day, and Mr. Gillies’ foolishness being
obviously incurable the only available course
is to let that gentleman die out. The same
remedy may also possibly suit the case of
Sir James M‘Bain, who stated, in tones of
solemn warning, that—
He looked with a great deal of unrest and suspicion on
the attempts that were being made in Queensland to dic-
tate to the Imperial Government as to what Governor
should be appointed. He trusted there would be no
change in the system of appointing a Governor.
This outpouring of M‘Bain uponMTLWRAiTH
seems to have passed in silence. The spec-
tacle of a fiy rising to state in an after-
dinner oration that he looks with unrest
and suspicion upon an elephant, and that he
trusts the animal won’t move, is only cal-
culated to arouse the mirth of a derisive
land.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Chance for the Rejected Governor.
Is IT quite certain after all that there is no place
for Sir Henry Arthur Blake on the Australian
Continent ? No doubt Premier M‘ll wraith has
made Queensland too hot to hold him, but what a
godsend he would be to the press and public
of the City of the Beautiful Harbour, if the
Freeman’s Journal of Dublin correctly describes
his qualifications ! “He was first a draper’s assis-
tant and then a policeman. ” How lovely ! What
a president for a Women’s Industrial Exhibition !
What a judge of the decorations of that historical
boudoir ; what a connoisseur of the excellence of
Mrs. Froust’s cookery ! What a leader of Sydney
society if anything should happen to relegate the
right trusty and well beloved Charles Robert
Baron Yawnington back to the box-seat of the
Brighton coach ! What a godsend for politicians
of the blood-and-iron-and-Nordenfeldt-gun order !
How he would shine as a chief of a committee of
taste in the morning and head of a consultation as
to the best means of spiflicating discontented
Newcastle miners at night. To the one he could
display all that devotion a courteous counter-
jumper bestows on a Dublin beauty; to the other
he could exhibit the martial sternness the Irish
constable vouchsafes to the evicted peasant. Talk
of the glove of silk and the hand of steel, why
there’s the whole combination at once before you
in the person of Sir Henry Arthur Blake. To
the ladies, dear man, he would be a continual joy.
Fancy the pleasure with which they would share
in the honours of Government House as performed
by a host around whom still lingered the echoes
of these witching words “h’and what is the next
h’article?” Fancy the delighted pride of the cook-
maid as she took the arm of pleecsman X, after
stoking him right up to the larnyx with cold pie,
and whispered, “Sure and you, too, may be a
guvnor yet, darlint, and whoy not, indade?”
On the other lt.nd,- i njgine the moral sup-
port that Parkks and all the rest of the
kindly and mercilul gentry, who would keep
the people down with the aid of the military,
and reward their aspirations for freedom with long
terms of penal servitude, would derive from his
presence. Who knows, after all, that MTlwraith
may have been providentially inspired and that
the h’upper classes of New South Wales may not
have cause to bless the day which made him send
his rude telegram toKNUTSi’ORD?
The Fall of Cleveland.
Dear Bulletin,—The hopeless defeat of Cleve-
land for the United States Presidency is a
short, sharp shock for the Freetrade prophets
of New South Wales. For the 24 years pre-
ceding the election of that dismantled poli-
tician to be chief magistrate of the Republic,
the Democratic party missed its grasp of power
every time, and now, after a little triumph
of four short years it has gone back once more to
the icy shades of Opposition. Previous to the
great Uivil War, the Democrats—the party of the
South—was generally uppermost. The States
were ruled by Democratic presidents and bossed by
Democratic senators, and the public offices were
swamped by Democratic nominees, while the Re-
publicans drifted further and further away from
the joys and profits of office. The so-called
“ Southern chivalry ” was rampant in these days,
and though the name of their party suggested
that it was built on the foundation of popular
liberty, its stronghold was among the slave-holding
aristocracy, and its cardinal principle was that
every man should whop his own nigger. Then
came the turn of the Republicans, and from the
first day oi Lincoln to the last day of Arthur
their faction was uppermost. The nation gr e w weary
of them at last, however, and the collapse of Blaine
in the last great contest between the two parties
ushered in an era of Democratic triumph which
promised to last as long as that of their defeat.
Twenty-four years of Republican administration
had made the masses long for a different crowd of
place-hunters, and there was much harmless
triumph amo: g the ruins of the generation that
followed Lee and whooped for old Jeep. Davis.
But Cleveland—a peaceful, overfed, fifth-rate
man, whose real mission in life was to sit down
and breathe stertorously and draw a salary-
longed to do something Napoleonic in the world
of politics, and, in an evil hour, he issued an am-
biguous manifesto, in which a faint tendency
towards Freetrade could be discerned between the


Everybody says—and what everybody Bays must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Floor is the
best in the market.
Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house).
Directors: •
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank' undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 months ... 7 per cent.
T. S. Richardson _ - Managing Director.
lines. Then the S. M. Herald was jubilant, and
there was rejoicing in the columns of the D.T.;
the party which brays with Parses hailed the
President as the new Messiah of Commerce, and
Wise and Pulseord floundered through a bottom-
less swamp of statistics to prove that America
was about to enter upon a career of boundless
prosperity under the guidance of the Democratic
apostle. But even before the ink of these outpour-
ings had time to dry the Preside t had recognised
the vastness of his mista’-n and had taken
it all back. The rest of his term of
office was spent chiefly in frenzied efforts to assure
the world that he had been misrepresented and
misunderstood, but he never fully recovered from
the effects of his stupendous blunder. In the
election which is just completed the party which
he represented was divided into two warring
factions—-the Democratic Protectionists who be-
lieved in the sincerity of Cleveland’s explanation,
and the Democratic Protectionists who did not.
The latter coalesced with the Republicans, and
the results of the labours of 24 years were prac-
tically annihilated. Despite this result, however,
the w.M. Herald and the Telegraph still pre-
tend to believe that a great moral victory has been
achieved by the imaginary Freetrade section of
the American nation, but the pretence is too thin
to deceive anyone except those who are paid to
credit such fallacies. The rank-and-file of the
Democrats have deliberately thrown away the
advahtages for which they struggled during more
than two decades rather than follow a leader who
waß even suspected of Cobdenite tendencies, and
what more convincing proof of their Protectionist
convictions they could afford it is difficult for all
save Wise and Pulsfoed and the rest of the
White Waistcoat Party to imagine.—B.B.B.
♦
Living and Gambling.
Dr. B. W. Richardson, best known as a scientific
leader of the anti-alcohol party in England, has
been lifting up his warning voi«te “ against every-
thing that quickens the action of the heart.” As
Dr. R.’s remarks appeared to have a sinister
bearing on the Cup, they were severely dealt with
by the Melbourne Herald in a crushing article,
entitled “ Does Excitement Shorten Life ?” That
evening the oracle proceeded to demonstrate that
soldiers and sailors dragged out their “exciting”
lives to an unusual length, and hinted that so long
as excitement was associated with “the invigorat-
ing benefits of fresh air and exercise ” it had
rather a Methuselahan effect upon mankind. The
Herald —sly dog!—wished it to be understood that
soldiering, sailoring, and racing were on the same
plane as regards excitement, and that anyone who
followed either of those pursuits would find great
difficulty in dying at all. Unfortunately for
Herald logic it happens that soldiers and sailors
—particularly warriors—lead an existence which is
more humdrum, placid, and regular than that of
the average citizen working for his bread. Sailors
have occasional worries in the shape of storms, or
even shipwrecks. As for soldiers, especially
British soldiers, their time is mainly occupied with
drills, pipeclaying, and other mild tomfooleries.
They may occasionally be shot at by the enemy
from half-a-mile away, or have a hand-to-hand
conflict with niggers who don’t stand a thousand-
to one chance of killing them. The British soldier
in battle is less exposed to danger than a business-
man dodging tram-cars, and only once in his life,
perhaps, does his heart beat as beats the heart of
a stockbroker, or any other broker, when there is
a boom in his particular line. But the racing
man does know something of excitement and it is
a melancholy fact that all his invigorating bene-
fits of fresh air and exercise cannot keep him from
going paralysed on the right side of 00. All
bookmakers and all inveterate backers of horses
don’t ‘ 1 break up ” in this manner, but an awful
percentage of them do. Show us a man of 70
who consistently laid the odds for a long term of
years, or show us one ancient liver by gambling of
any sort. Wealthy men have lo3t thousands at the
game and yet live long, but such are not gamblers
at all.
+
Tire Legalised Rioter.
The summing-up of Judge Stephen in the case of
the “alleged” New Lambton riots was a very
fine exposition of the situation as viewed from the
capitalistic standpoint. However, in arguing
that “men have a perfect right to go where they
please, to’ work where and with whom they please
for what they please,” he administered a direct
slap in the face to the colonial Governments who
at present endeavour to deter the “innocent
Chinaman, not guilty even of any intention of
doing anything wrong,” from landing here, “to
work with whom he pleases, for what he pleases.”
If it be legal to shut out the Mongol on account
of his tendency to lower the standard of wages
and the status of the labourer, then it is equally
legal to hinder the inexperienced, irresponsible
blackleg, whose spasmodic efforts defeats a move-
ment whose object is to maintain the status of the
producer, from exercising his baleful influence.
Again, if the unskilled blackleg have the right
to work for whom he pleases, and the em-
ployer of labour also enjoys a similar right
ofj selection, then the legal associations whose
sole object is to maintain their rate of pay
by debarring outside [competitors from sharing
their returns have “ actually set upon and intimi-
dated innocent men from earning an honest loaf for
themselves and their families.” The legal func-
tionary sees clearly enough the undesirability of
having the hitherto uncircumscribed fleecings of
the fraternity reduced by the vigorous competi-
tion of less fastidious persons; that the coal-
hewer, whose earnings, unhappily for the com-
munity, more nearly approach the margin of
subsistence, should dare, in a rough way, to
exercise precautionary measures of a similar
character is “ a grave offence,” and one that must
be severely punished in order “that the law may
be vindicated and good order and social relations
restored,”
+
Doctor Charles Mackay.
In a Sydney daily paper the Rev. George
Walters, a Unitarian clergyman, calling atten-
tion to the pecuniary troubles of Dr. Charles
Mackay, the Radical poet, song writer, and
veteran humanitarian, who has fallen into ill-
health and embarrassment in his declining years,
expresses hi 3 willingness to receive donations on
his behalf. Though the sound of Mackay’s lyre
may not be destined to echo for ever down the
corridors of time, yet many of his lyrics are
enshrined in the hearts of the people. “ The Good
Time Coming,” ‘ Chen-, Boys, Cheer,” “Tubal
Cain,” “To the West,” and many other nobler
and more prophetic strains are among those that
immediately suggest themselves to people familiar
with the pure and stirring verses of the enthu-
siastic old doctor. Many among our readers who
sat entranced whild dear old Amery, now gone,
trilled forth “Good Company” were doubtless
unaware that they owed much of their plea-
sure to the facile pen of the object of Mr.
Walters’ appeal. That the suppliants on behalf
of one whose heart, as laid bare in his writings, is
animated with the noblest feelings, and pulsates
with a boundless love for his kind, will meet with
a hearty response from his Australian admirers
oannot be doubted. That the genius is often
neglected during his lifetime, that even post-
humous recognition of his powers seldom secures
assistance for the helpless ones he has left behind,
cannot be denied, while that much of this appar-
ent neglect is due to the ignorance of the public
and could be overcome by the energy of those who
are acquainted with the facts is certain. There-
fore, while advocating the ample recognition of
Charles Mackay’s splendid services, it is to be
hoped that Kendall, Claeke, and others will not
be altogether allowed to die out of memory. As
the subject of this sketch has said :
We honour
Overmuch the mighty dead
And dis-spirit
Living Merit,
Heaping soorn upon its head ;
Or, perchance when kinder grown
Leave it soon to die—alone !
(The other day a monument was unveiled with con
siderable ceremony to the memory of Henry Kendall, the
Australian poet. We are now told by a certain charitable
doctor of Sydney that the poet’s mother, from whom he
unquestionably inherited no small portion of his genius
and who is now 87 years of age, has had to find a tem-
porary asylum in a Sydney public institution. The
poor old lady oannot have many years to live and an
appeal is now made to the public for funds to enable her
to pass her remaining days in peace.]
♦
Melbourne Hekald, a journal which suffers
from chronic penny hysteria in its most acute
form, is just now dealing with the somewhat
vexed question of medical “ quackery.” Whether
the man who practises the so-called healing art,
without having passed certain examinations in
which the veriest numbskulls can take honours,
doesn’t give the public better value for their
money than do most qualified lawyers, barristers,
professional accountants, and other birds of prey,
is open to honest doubt. The “quack” doctor
need not necessarily be a villain, who deliberately
plots mischief against his patient, though the ex-
posure of a dozen such is a safe and easy matter.
To expose legal bloodsuckers who make a point of
“selling” their clients for a consideration and
display a devilish ingenuity in working up costs
—to show up accountants who cunningly delay all
business which gets into their remorseless clutch
would be quite as easy, but not equally safe. That
by the way, however. The Hebald appears to
have made a shocking example of one individual
for the reasons that he undertook to cure a case of
phthisis which he didn’t cure, and also because
another party wrote to the Hhrald, complaining
of said individual’s ineffectual treatment. This
letter is published with the avowed intention of
dispelling “any lingering doubt in any of the
minds ” of the public as to the dangerous charac-
ter of the individual above mentioned. Such a
line of argument will scarcely commend itself to
the most successful of doctors. There is probably
no medical practitioner in the whole wide world
who hasn’t been privately denounced as a humbug
in a hundred family circles. The least educated
classes would, if they had the means, change their
doctor once a week in every case of serious illness.
And though there are conscientious leeches who
never assume a power to cure incurable cases, ex.-
perience teaches us that there is a vast amount of
qualified “quackery” in this connection. We
know of at least one instance in which a gold-
medallist M.D. diagnosed a case of galloping con-
sumption in an early stage as “ slight congestion
of the liver.” The doctor in quesbion enjoys a
large London practice, and there are really clever
men in every Australian town who might be justly
accused of similar mistakes. Touching these
Herald “ exposures ” it will occur to most people
that quack doctors require to be very carefully de-
fined, unless it can be proved that they are
migratory animals addicted to aliases, or items in
an irresponsible company. Any undiplomaed
pracbitioner who can hold his own in one towD,
and under one name, for a number of years, must
have conducted his business in a fairly legitimate
manner. He must have cured some patients of
something—or they thought he did. And if he
gets long prices for inducing this comforting be-
lief he is getting no more than is charged by
admitted leaders of the profession for services of
no more actual value. The spectacle of the
Herald exposing quacks reminds us of Nico-
demus reproving Sin. It likewise reminds us of
the pot and the ketttle, and suggests sundry other
historical circumstances too numerous to mention.
♦
Premier MTlweaith has announced his inten-
tion of cancelling the licenses of these Queensland
theatres where Sunday concerts or lectures are
given. He has also placed it on record that he
does not so much object to lectures as to secular
concerts, while to charges made at the doors for
admission to Sunday entertainments of any kind
he has the utmost aversion. Herein he differs
somewhat from the Premier of New South Wales,
who has no objection to Sunday concert?, but
to whom lectures are as a red rag to a bull.
Does not this difference of opinion show the folly
of entrusting anyone with power to constitute
himself the keeper of the conscience of the com-
munity ? The Presbyterian MTlweaith will
allow nothing except the “ Old Hundredth” and
“ Martyrdom ” to be sung on Sunday ; Parkes
the poet cares not what is sung, but declines to
give any lecturer the opportunity to attack him on
that day from the stage of any New South Wales
theatre! So that the question is not one of
abstract right or wrong, but merely one of per-
sonal prejudice.
♦
Parkes smiled the other night when the now
bald, grey-whiskered, and rheumatic Payment of
Members’ Bill reappeared in the New South
Wales Assembly. He knows that while he is
Premier the measure cannot become law. Even
thcueh a majority backed it in the Upper House
it still will not see the light. Who will take it to
Carington? Parses will not. It is very well-
known in certain quarters that Carington will
decline advice on the measure from Minister
Clarke. At the very utmost, all his colleagues
and Parliament can demand of the Premier, in
consequence of the stand he has taken up, is that
he shall present the Bill to the Governor. But
Carington has made up his mind not to act on
his presentation, if the matter come in such a
shape. He will require the positive advics of Sir
Henby. How can Sir Henry, therefore, help
smiling while members, like boobies, go on glory-
ing over abortive victories ?
A young woman died under suspicious circum-
stances at the house of a midwife at the Glebe,
Sydney. The latter was arrested and brought
before the Acting Coroner’s Court. The inquiry
had scarcely opened when it was found that the
coroner’s clerk had to attend the Supreme Court,
and, as a consequence, the inquest was adjourned
for a week, the midwife meanwhile being re-
manded without bail, although it was shown
that her son was on his death-bed and not a word
of evidence had been given against her. Why not
employ an intelligent constable to act as clerk, if
there must b 9 a clerk? In Melbourne, Dr.
Youll, who has been coroner for nearly half a cen-
tury, does all his own “ clerking,” and so does the
county coroner, Mr. Candler, who has held his
office for a very long period No person should
be kept with any charge, grave or simple, hanging
over him or her a moment longer than is
necessary.
The reported deakh of Major Barttelot has
furnished the British sentimentalist and gush-
grinder with a subject, and so the folks who made
a hero of a disobedient fanatic in the person of
Gordon are now endeavouring to raise a modern
Dugald Dalgetty into the ranks of the “noble
army of martyrs.” As Truth points out, Bart-
telot was one of these officious persons who ac-
cept pay from newspaper, commercial, scientific,
or pseudo-benevolent companies to go where they
are not wanted, and where they have no business
to intrude. Should such intruders get lost or
killed, Dalgetty No. 2 at once starts off on the
track of discovery, shooting and floggirig all who
bar his progress, and the world is asked to
admire his “ wonderful courage, heroism, and
pluck.” Your ordinary African explorer is only
a modern highwayman, and in this country would
probably have taken to bushrabging.
«.
Terrible accounts come from Riverina as to the
prospects of the coming season. Wilcannia this
year shows the smallest rainfall ever recorded.
Stations can use horses which are stable-fed only,
and even if the drought does break, the squatters
will then have to face the rabbit-racket again, as
the frisky pests still thrive wherever a drop
of water can be found. In Albury district crops
grown even under the most favourable circum-
stances are withered beyond redemption, and the
poorer class of farmers see nothing but ruin staring
them in the face. It is said that the owner of
Mahooga stationj has had the throats of 25,000
old sheep cub in order to preserve the herbage for
more valuable stock, and as it is impossible to
obtain a sale for this class of sheep, other owners
will be forced to follow his example. Meantime,
however, it is satisfactory to know that the wise
men of the Parkes Ministry have just made the
startling discovery that ‘ irrigation has been
found to have a beneficial effect on places that are
scantily supplied with water.” And we might
also add that lunatic asylums have been found to
have a, beneficial effect on persons who are scantily
supplied with brains.
4.
After all, it seems that the Sydney Morning
Herald and Melbourne Argus had powerful
reasons for publishing the English history of
Frederick the Noble’s poor gullet. In due course
appeared a fac simile of F. the Noble’s letter
to Morell Mackenzie stating that he had asked
his royal mother-in-law to allow Mac. to accept a
German order. Then followed the grateful throat-
doctor’s slush:—“This communication is very
characteristic of Frederick the Noble, showing
as it does his profound respect for the Queen, and
his delicate thoughtfulness for humble individuals
like myself. I know of no other instance in
which a foreign monarch has, before conferring an
honour on an Englishman, not only taken the
trouble to ascertain whether the distinction would
be pleasing to the recipient’s own Sovereign, but
obtained leave for him to accept and use it.” That
paragraph alone would justify the Morning
Herald and Argus in letting the slimy author
inflict columns of technical twaddle upon a weary
world. It is their idea of first-class GoD-save-the-
Queen copy, and although the letter detracts
something from Frederick’s nobility, and the
paragraph convinces us that Mackenzie is an out-
and-out worm, our two Tory newspapers did
everything for the best.
♦
If accused persons, when taken into custody,
would only hold their tongues they would in nine
cases out of ten escape punishment. It is what a
person says at the time of his arrest that is the
most difficult for the prisoner’s counsel to explain
and the strongest link in the evidence for the
pro-ecution. The other day a case came, on appeal,
before the Full Court in Sydney, wherein it was
shown that a thickheaded person called Kennedy
had, when arrested at Dubbo, deliberately made
“a statement,” and, when the statement was
made, as deliberately signed it. This statement
gave him completely and irrevocably away, and
when Mr. Justice Stephen met the case at the en-
suing Assizes the culprit was duly despatched to
durance vile. Now comes in the proof of thick-
headedness. When Kennedy found himself in
gaol he bethought himself of the circumstance that
the Justice who was present when he made the
statement had not cautioned him against in-
criminating himself. On this he appealed to the
Full Court. It is not always that an ultimate
legal decision harmonises with common sense. In
appeals, technicalities are often supreme. In
Kennedy’s case, however, the Court was unani-
mous in throwing the culprit’s after-thought under
the table. If he did not want to contribute to his
conviction why did he not hold his tongue ?
4
A correspondent arises in a contemporary to
offer a few remarks re the Chinaman :
On the German ships a Chinaman would not be tolerated
at any price. If our Teutonic cousins cm make their
ships pay without the aid ot John Chinaman, it is only
reasonable to suppose that other Anglo-Saxon races can
do the same. There is one matter a passenger cannot
help being struck with, and that is the German character
of everything, even to the matches, which are of a well-
known German brand. All this points to the fact and
explains in a small way the solidity of the Germans as a
nation. Lascar or coloured labour of any kind is un-
known on the mailboats of the Norddeutcher-Lloyd line.
It is noteworthy that if by any chance a Chinaman should
be engaged by a captain of any of the boats a distressed
German sailor could demand the dismissal of John and
compel the captain to engage him in bi 3 plaoe.
And meanwhile the distressed British sailor can-
not make a British captain engage him even as a
solitary Christian among a crowd of salt-water
Buddhists, and it is the distressed Chinaman who
demands that the white seaman shall be sacked to
make room for him, that Ah Hi may figure as a
noble tar and ba one of the bulwarks of England’s
greatness. Things are changed somehow.
In Fiji the other day a whiteman who sold
sly grog was fined heavily, and not having the
money to pay decided to bolt rather than go to
gaol. A careful watch was put by the authorities
upon all outward-bound vessels, but the grog man
made himself up as a Fijian and actually passed
himself off as such upon the officer who came on
board to search for him.
Tlie “ Leading ” Newspapers.
What is the matter with the Sydney Morning
Herald, and why did it allow ten whole days to
elapse_ without vouchsafing a single word as to the
propriety of the action of Premier MTlwraith in
insisting that Queensland should have a voice in
the selection of her own Governor ? Is it possible
that the Herald’s mind is so much bigger than
the minds of the rest of the world that it takes
more than ten days to make it up ? Is it a fact
that when the local Telegraph stepped out
quickly and began to praise the Premier of
Queensland for his patriotism, the Herald got
sulky, and made up its mind that if it could not
speak first it would not speak at all; or is it that
the senior journal is not yet quite certain as to the
side on which its bread is buttered? The
position is a difficult one for a small editor
and a wealthy proprietary to tackle. On the
one hand is the certainty that the card of Aus-
tralian Nationalism is the strongest in the pack;
on the other, the fact that Imperialism is very
genteel and not altogether unprofitable; If Sir
Thomas MTlwraith succeeds and the Australian
Governors become practically the elect, or at
least the accepted, of the Australian people, then
wealthy proprietors may bid good-bye to those
visions of G.C.M.G.-ships and Privy Councillor-
ships and decorations and crosses and tinsel that
accompany the “Imperial idea.” Besides, it must
not be forgotten that MTlwraith has dared to
act without obtaining the concurrence, or even
asking the opinion, of the Premier of New South
Wales. He has forgotten that New South Wales
is the mother colony of the group, the leader of
Australian civilisation, the eighth wonder of the
world, the home of Freetrade, and the adopted
land of Sir Henry Parkes. He has acted as if he
thought Queensland was somewhere and he was
somebody, and Granny “does not demean her-
self to take notice of his inperence.”
* * *
But the eagerness of the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph to sing ditto to MTlwraith is, neverthe-
less, exceedingly comical ! Only a few days ago
it was still, as it had been all along, Imperial to
the backboae and spinal marrow. It was shocked
at the conduct oi Queensland in refusing to join in
the Naval Tribute scheme and it echoed the
voice of “ sassiety ” in idolising the “ Imperial
idta.” Every word with which Sir Henry
Parkes and Lord Carington described our
dependence upon British protection and our
defencelessness against German greed or Chinese
resentment was made the test of a “loyal” ser-
mon, and the world began to imagine that the
whyness of the thus would be disclosed in the
announcement that Editor Ward had been
knighted and Editor Gullett made a
C.M.G.' Aha ! How little do we know
which way the cat will jump in this
world! In the present case she is chasing
her own tail and has nearly succeeded in get-
ting her teeth on it. The paper which was the
first to bless the Soudan Contingent and to pro-
claim the unity of the interests of Australia and
Great Britain and to bless the bludgeon and-
bayonet-and-whiff-of-grape system at Jubilee time,
has found out that Separation must come imme-
diately, if not sooner, and that Independence is
the only cup which will rule on the premises. The
curve on the American railway which was so sharp
that the occupant of the guards-van at one end of
the train could light his pipe at the furnace of the
engine, at the other, is nothing to that which the
Telegraph has just negotiated. How blest are
the Sydney people whose senior newspaper is
sulkily Bilent for a fortnight at a stretch on the
most important political question, the only politi-
cal question, of the day, and whose junior organ in-
dulges in hypocritical raptures wholly at variance
with its past utterances. How happy is the con-
dition of Sir Henry Parkes who has thus for the
second time in six weeks been forced to stand
aside and see Sir Thomas MTlwraith calmly
come forward to vindicate the honour of the whole
country and take his place as the foremost states-
man and only history-maker of Australia.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —As a regular
reader of your paper, and an approver of much of
its contents, I ask to be allowed to protest against
your violent attack in your last issue upon the late
Governor of Queensland. Even supposing what
you say of him to be true—which I should be
sorry to admit —is it obeying the ordinary laws
of courtesy (to take no higher standpoint) to steep
your pen in venom about a dead man, and scatter
your hard words broadcast through Australia ?
Does The Bulletin intend for the future to wage
war against the sacred grief of the recently
bereaved ? If it does, many, I fancy, will discontinue
its perusal. It is no secret that the official salary of
the late Sir Anthony Musgrave was insufficient
by at least £2OOO a year to defray the necessary
expenses of his position and his hospitalities. He
and Lady Musgrave cheerfully spent their private
income among us, though I, as an obscure person,
have never enjoyed, or sought to enjoy, their hos-
pitality. Attack the system, if you think well to
do so, but spare its representatives, and, still
more, the dead, as you would wish your own dead
spared. You may call me “ toady ” and “ grovel-
ler ”as much as you like, if you withdraw or
modify what you have said. I am neither ; but
my back is broad, my mind conscious of right
I am, yours &c , A. Bkuce Smith. Brisbane,
26th October, 1888. \De mortuis nil nisi bonuni
is not an axiom; it is merely a sentiment. Besides,
we never said any harm of the dead Governor.
We never attacked himin any other capacity than
that of a public man and we never said anything
of him when living that would cast a shadow on
his memory when dead. Governor Musgrave is
dead, but the system remains. It is not our fault
that he is dead any more than it was our fault that
when living he was the exponent of Imperialism.
He was undoubtedly a good man, as men go, he
was just as undoubtedly one of the worst Governors
the Colonial Office ever sent to Australia. By the
way, systems are best fought in the men that
represent them. And again we did not so much
attack Governor Musgrave as the sycophantic
press that slimed over his bier with revolting
lies —Ed. Bulletin.]


B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACIARDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Die3inker, Embosser, Bookbinder
Account Book Manufacturer, (fee., &c.
Maclardy's £5 Sox of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List of Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B,— Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goods. Inspection invited.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Walter Snell”: M'llwraith might have
alleged, as an all-sufficient reason for Queensland’s re-
fusal of Blake, that Australia doesn’t want Blake be-
cause Blake has been mixed up with Irish rows and would
bring with him to this country in his portmanteau a big
faction-fight. If Blake comes here the Orange party
will oh9er him on every possible occasion and the
South of Ireland men will look sour and curse him under
their breath. Therefore Australia, wishing to be peace-
ful, doesn’t want Mr. Blake. As to what you say about
Blake having risen from the ranks and beiDg therefore
prima facie more eligible from a democratic standpoint
than was Lord Carington, we need only remark that if
England continues to send governors here, we, who wish
to see Australia independent and Republican at the
earliest possible date hope, that she will send us governors
who are either colourless noodles devoid of all really
royal attributes, and therefore calculated to destroy al
veneration for monarchical and Imperial ideas, or
men of the John Morley type of intellect, who will do
something for our democracy. England can't spare her
John Morleys or Joseph Co wens, and is not likely to part
with them. Australia doesn’t want to be taken in
charge by any more policemen. She has been under
police and gaoler Government for 100 years too long
“ Nationalist Nat ”: No, we do not think that “Austra-
lasia will ever require to draw the sword in the cause of
Nationalism.” The real arbiter of peace and war, so far as
Britain is conoerned, is the bondholder, who was responsible
for the late Egyptian campaign and numerous other little
exploitations. These colonies are pretty well mortgaged
to the 8.8 , and he is not going to see his seourity knocked
into smithereens with his own Gatlings and Nordenfeldts
just because the colonies choose to say how they will be
governed. If Ireland owed Lombard-street half as much
as do the colonies, and it could be demonstrated to the
money-lenders that the : r security was being depreciated
by British rule, Ireland would have Home Rule to-day
“An Anti-R evolutionist ": Look at the matter from this
standpoint. Out of every 1000 inhabitants of the United
Kingdom, 30, say, are in receipt of State relief and are
known by the generio and oharitable name of paupers.
Eor the support of these unfortunates—deprived often
through no fault of their own of the means of obtaining
subsistence —the o wners of property and the earners of
wages are heavily taxed. Now does not the Government,
in attempting to supply the wants of those who have not
by taking from those who have, praotically acknowledge
the evils of Monopoly ? Is not their action an admission
that the community of goods has in it the elements of
truth—that it is something more than a “ mere fad" that
will die out from sheer want of inherent vitality?
“W. R. Biokerton ” (Melbourne) : First-class item. Wil)
use “F.W.1.”: With regard to your request that we
will point out where the faults in your poem chiefly lie,
we can only reply that they lie everywhere. We never
saw a poem in whioh they were more carefully distributed
round “A. Tyson”: According to Coghlan, Sydney
has a population of 350,000; Newcastle, 8986; Gouloun,
5881; Grafton, 3891 “Yorkshire Bite” (Braidwood):
Your appalling “Ole on Sir Enemy sParks" has been
thrown out of the window into the lane at the back of our
premises. “ Wet and Dry ” isn’t quite so bad. Standing
alone it would be horrible, but the other thing tones it
down a little “Geebung”: You have got a good hold
of the social problem over which Malthus fell in such a dis-
organised heap. Shall always be glad to hear from you...
“ F.C.R.” (Newcastle): Sir A. Stephen was appo ned by
the Imperial authorities “D. Price” (Waverley) : Your
long communication about the boys who insist on talking
in Sunday-school or something of that sort is to hand.
You aren’t calculated to shine in literature. Tne adver-
tising columns are your best hold ~.“D T. Smitn ':
The “ Wet Paint ’ joke is hopelessly and for ever played
out “Honi”:Your sketch of S'lverton is only a
dreary catalogue..Patrick Daly’ You are of a
parochial turn, Patrick. We don t care muuh fur ..he
opinions of anyone and we care nothing at ail for those
of the man who keeps tne pub. in your looal swamp ...
“ G.S.” (Balmain) : Please call “ P.G.A.”: Thants for
information....” Zaob” : Write often, please ":
Why, some Ignatius Donnelly of the future will discover
that Dan. O'Connor's orations were really composed—if
not delivered—by Peter Jackson “ Rose S. S.”: Some
of your ideas in “ The Waking of the People ’’ are happily
expressed, but the metre is woefully defective. Try
again, certainly...'. “T. Barker ” (Mandurama): Tub Bul.
letin has the fullest sympathy with the cause of the
Shearers' Union, but cannot find space for your long
letter—" Wairba ”: Too crude. However, you clearly
see the vital points of the Hanoverian dynasty. Let
people say what they will, the house of Guelph would
stay on the throne ever so much longer were the Prinoe
of Wales not short and bald and fat. No romance ever
hangs round a dumpy baldhead. Men and women are
attracted by monarchs of the Hohenzcllern order of archi-
tecture, but they revolt at the sight of a squat king who
shows all his skull “Banana Felix”: The Bulletins
fish-lie might not be altogether original, but anyhow it
was near enough. Also, it was a lot better than the
wheeze you send along “R. 8.”: Good item. Will
print “J.S.” (Building Societies): Please tell us all
about it “Somerset”: You say that M'llwraith is act-
ing as he does through mere pique of England, the
Imperial authorities having vetoed his annexation of New
Guinea. The Bulletin does not say that M’llwraith pur-
ued Australia’s true policy in seeking to exploit the
“ Dark Island,” but M’llwraith’s action has justified itself
from an Imperial standpoint in view of the fact that the
British authorities ultimately took whatever of New
Guinea Germany had left, and inflicted on the colonies an
annual charge for governing New Guinea which would
hardly have been a penny larger had they confirmed
Queensland’s action in collaring the entire island.
“You cannot have too much of a good thing,"
and if half of New Guinea is a good thing the
whole of it would have been much better
“ 11.A.H. ” : Received “Snodgrass” (Binalong):
We sniff a libel in your communication “Kosmos”
(Ballarat): Thanks for clipping,...”M.M.” (Captain’s
Flat): We absolutely decline to “take off the old
ororlers in the disstrick.” “ J.R.” (Prahran):
Received “Illawarra ’: Will consider “L.H.N.”
(Brisbane): Pity jou cannot initiate an action
“H.H.": Will ponder over “Urana”: Have read
the documents, but the publication of our views would
serve no useful purpose at present “J.J.M.”: The
wagers go against the orew which refuses to abide by the
umpire’s decision “ Richard Saunders ”: Many thanks.
.... “ Sphinx ”: Will consider
The Referee
The daily press are gushing over the name
fixed by Hon. John Eales for his Grandmaster-
Chrysolite colt—“ The Prince of Wa es,” dropped
on the anniversary of Albert Edward’s natal day.
We don’t see anything to gush over. Had the
Hon. John christened his colt “ Tummy ” he
might have taken the cake. Albert Edward is
better known the world over as Tummy than as
the Prince of Wales, and look what a lot of time
the “ yiddishers ’ would save in crying, “ I lay
Tummy,” in the place of “I lay the Prince of
Wales.” Is it too late for the alteration ? If not
we charge nothing for the suggestion.
* * *
A certain Sidney sporting paper and the
office of a fashionable registry for female ser-
vants are beneath the same roof, and this fact
often causes misunderstanding. When Mrs. De
Pottspoint asks about the antecedents of The
Governess, the horse-reporter calmly takes the
Turf Register and says : “ Boxing Day, ’B6,
Bright R.C. Meeting, The Governess, 7 shun, wins
Flying Handicap; unplaced in Shire Handicap
with 6 stun 101 b. Haven’t time to fish up pedigree
now, but you’ll find it in our Answers to Corres-
pondents next week. Give us yer coat of arms.”
* * *
The Murkan base-ball players will arrive in
Sydney by ne it ’Erisco mail-boat, and will play
MR. W. C. PIGUENIT.
VICE PRESIDENT OF THE NEW SOUTH WALES ART SOCIETY.
their opening game on December 15. Baseball is
like the good old SuncDy-school-picnic game of
rounders, ODly more so. It is considered ever so
much more wicked than horse-racing by the amen-
snorters of the States, and it 3 introduction here as
a professional game will lead to a withdrawal of
the clerical approval of rounders, so that our
youths and maidens a-picnicing bent will require
to fall back on ringy-ringy-rosie and kiss-iu-the-
nng.
* * •
An attempt is being made in Wellington
(N.Z.) to acclimatise baseball. The N.Z. Times,
a paper that has a dreary mission which doesn’t
thrive much—the editress being the only female
parson in N.Z. who’s got ’em on—to introduce the
divided skirt, gravely allows, “Itis a mistaken
idea that anyone can play the game of baseball, or
that it is a game for women and children.” Yet
this lady has written several tons of delirious
columns to demonstrate the sweet suitability of
cricket as a game for gurls !
The Australasian cricket-whallah an-
nounces : “Gray, who last season was ground-
bowler for East Melbourne, has joined the police.”
That’s so ! We no longer shall read, “ Run out —
bowled by Gray,” but “Run in by bowld Gray.”
However, they’ll probably put Gray in charge of a
lock-up ; his cricket experience should enable him
to become a good wicket-keeper. This subtle joke
is copywright. Scottish clients who wish it ex-
plained will please bring their own pickaxes,
• * *
At the anti-gambling demonstration, held
in a Melbourne Church just previous to the
V.R.C. Derby, the Hon. James Balfour strove to
push bis Daily Telegraph among the saints by
stating that that organ of the Y.M.C.A. had
never published the odds on a race since it came
under the sway of Balfour and Co. This nobility
of character, said Balfour, had lost the paper
several subscribers. If it loses several more —.
In that department of Sydney Sporting
Life devoted to the interests of the Licentious
Victuallers appears an article urging the local
publicans to form a union and charge an increased
price for spirits, as is done in Adelaide and Mel-
bourne. The scribe adroitly points out that such
a change would do away with the necessity for
private bars, and he calls on Dr. Jefferis and the
Social Purity Society to co operate with the Trade
in raising the price of the nobbier. Should such a
change occur it will be a triumph for the jour-
nalist and his clients, but what a reproach to the
manhood of Sydney, which would tamely see the
nobbier taxed and so glorious an institution as
sixpenny bars and barmaids abolished ! It is un-
likely that Jack Conway and his mendacious and
versatile man Friday will be permitted to live
after making such a proposal.
N.S.W. will be fully represented at the
Victorian aquatic carnival, both as regards yachts
and open boats, the following craft having gone
over : —The Era, 40 tons, built by George Ellis for
A. Wilson, which has shown herself so far to be no
crawler ; the Miranda, 40-ton centreboarder, built
by Dunn for Jack Want, which, report says, is
not overburdened with speed; the Volunteer, a
30-tonner put together by Dudley for a private
syndicate, who have in view the whipping of all
creation; and the saucy little fi-ton Assegai,
which was built in Melbourne, and now goes back
for good to the colony which gave her birth. The
half deckers are the Itonia, 20ft., owner H. Car-
penter, builder, Golding ; and the Verinna, 22ft.,
built by G. Barnett for VV. Paul. The open boats
have a solitary but speedy representative in the
Elbe, a 22-footer, created by Joe Donnelly for J,
M'Murtrie.
* * *
“ The False Prophet,” we read, “is busy
in the Soudan.” We, however, believe that he
and all his family are trying to tip winners for the
Australian papers.
* * *
Peter Jackson, of Australia, wiil light
M‘Auliffe, the Yankee pug., for a 3000-dollar
“ trophy ” on Dec 28th.
* * •
The Town and Country Journal an-
nounced that the Liverpool (England) Autumn
Cup of 1 mile and 3 furlongs had been run on
Nov. 3, the result being Bayley, 1; Rudolph, 2;
and Joseph, 3. It so happens that the fixture of
the race was Nov. 8, and none of the horses men-
tioned as having secured places were even entered
for the race.
* * •
A constable last jear drew Dunlop in the
big Sydney sweep. This year- Dick Swiveller fell
to the lot of another policeman, who refused £lOOO
for .the ticket. The Sydney “mimber av the
foorce ” is evidently under the influence of a lucky
star. Three star.
* * *
“ Vigilant,” of the Melbourne Sportsman,
said, amoDg other nasty things, that the Cup
horse Tradition was “as fat as a bullock.” Vigi-.
lant himself is a gentleman who weighs, say,
20st.
* * #
Mick J’Brien won £7500 over Mentor’s
win in the Melbourne Cup.
* •
Cricketer M‘Donnell and his “ merrie
men” have cleared nearly £lOOO each by their
trip to England. Their total share of profits is
£12,000.
* * *
Tommy Quoi, an Auckland (N.Z) China-
man, is making a reputation for himself as a rifle-
shot.
* * *
Though the ring won nothing over the
late V.R.C.—were, in fact, heavy losers —the
general public are no richer. The spoil went to a
few powerful stables and to privileged people who
“ were in the know.”
* * .
The fastest recorded time for an English
Derby is 2 min. 43 secs. No less than six Victorian
Derby winners have beaten this record, Martini-
Henry and Trident having each done it 4 stcs.
faster. Abercjrn won the A.J.C. Derby last
year in 2 min. 39J secs.
* * *
A smart man pretending to be a detective
levied a large sum in the shape of blackmail from
the various Bpielers on the ftWilliamston (Vic.)
racecourse on the occasion of the last meeting. A
local paper says he “aped the D. to a nicety.”
He did, he did.
» • *
A few weeks ago nearly every “ barber’s
clerk ” in the city had “ something going for him ”
in the Cup. Something is still “ going for him.”
In most cases it is a sheriff’s bailiff
Two Melbourne wheelmen have started
on a bicycle-tour round the world. They will
dodge the Matterhorn.
► « »
From what The Bulletin has noticed,
whisky and the game_of bowls gang thegither.
The flowing-bowl and the rolling-bowl are first
cousins.
At Moonee Valley (Meib.) meeting on
Saturday the stewards called upon a gentleman
rider to explain why he didn’t win a race which
most outsiders thought he had ridden to the best
of his ability. As nothing came of this unneces-
sary inquiry it didn’t signify much. But the
episode makes us think of many real swindles
perpetrated by better known “ amateurs ” at
Flemington, into which the V.R.C. authorities
never dream of inquiring.
* * «
Musket’s son Manton won the N.Z. Cup
easily by five lengths in 3mia. carrying
fist. 101 b.—the fastest time on record for that
event.
“Queen’s Servants,” or Queensland's
Servants—Whleh?
Should the Colonial Office pig-headedly insist on
Queensland accepting Cold-pie Blake as Governor,
MTI wraith will not, save as a last resor i, be able to
cut off Blake’s salary, as a Governor’s allowance is
not dependent on Parliamentary vote like that
of the ordinary civil-servant. Nor wiil M‘llwraith
necessarily be able to appeal to the country in the
ordinary way, as Blake would no doubt be in-
structed to refuse a dissolution. But it would' be
easy for the head of the Australian National
_ Party to announce that he intended to carry on
the machinery of Government without a Governor
at all, pending other arrangements. He would
notify that a plebiscite would be taken to
confirm his action, and that should the
country decide to uphold the decition of
its representatives as against the policy of
the foreigners of Downing-street—inheritors of
the traditions of the Downing-street of 1770
all deeds hitherto done by the Imperial Gover-
nor would thereafter be done by a convention to be
appointed by the electors It is, of course, likely
enough that the-British Government wbuld there-
upon send to Brisbane that very fleet which the
other day Queensland, to M‘ll wraith’s eternal
credit, wisely refused to join the other colonies in
subsidising; but this does not mean that in the
long run the National party would get the worst
of the trouble, for such a set of circumstances
would at once merge the Australian Nationalists
into an Anti-Foreign party, and history would be
made by leaps and Lounds. All this may happen
within the next few months. Australia may at
once achieve lur manifest destiny through the
jackass-like stupidity of a set of titled nobodies
—old-world prototypes of the Legislative Coun-
cillors of Australia.
William diaries P[?]uenit, Artist.
In this issue w« p lbliah an excellent portrait of
Mr. William uharhs Piguenit), an artist of Aus-
trian birth and education," and a man of whi m
his lellow-countrymen may well feel proud The
uxistence of such a man as Mr. Tigu nit and the
appreciation of his work by bis contemporaries is
a i-ign that the Australias are emerging from the
state of crudeness engendered by the strict übili-
t-irianism incidental to the struggles of early
c lonisation. Mr. Piguenit is a native of Hobart,
and at the early age of 12 he entered the service
of the Tasmanian Government as a draughtsman.
He followed that pursuit for 23 yeais, resigning
in 1874, in consequence of the m*an refusal
of the head of the Department to grant
him a well-earned 12 months’ leave of absence,
rendered all the more necessary in his case by
failing eyesight. He bad devoted the whole of his
leisure to sketching the magnificent scenery of his
native island, and very early in his career won the
silver medal of the N.S.W. Academy of Art,
which was speedily followed by other notable
successes, including the award of a gold medal at
the Calcutta Exhibition. One of the finest efforts
of his genius, a picture called “An Australian
Mangrove tide,” hangs in the N.S.W. Art
Gallery. Since his emancipation from the irksome
trammels of a Government billet Mr. Piguenit
has had more time to devote to his beloved Art,
and he now occupies a high position amongst
Australasian artists, gained by merit and hard,
honest endeavour. He has for a number of years
past resided in N.S.W., and now holds the
honoured post of Vice-president of the Art Society
The champion lady-killer—The White-
chapel murderer.
In view of the struggle with Knutsford,
re the Governorship of Queensland, M‘llwraith
is fortifying his system with judicious doses of
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
In a few copies of last week’s issue of The
Bulletin the name of Cardinal Manning was,
through a printer’s error, allowed to appear under
the portrait of Cardinal Newman. [The editor
who wrote this plausible story is a liar. He did
it himself. He always tries to fasten his mistakes
on to me. However, he has gone home, so I have
last say on this occasion.— Printer, Bulletin.]


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frank ton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Only a few more £lO allotments Evkrleigh
Estate, Perth, West Australia. Send for Plans
and Pamphlets. The Intercolonial Ttivnutmens
00., 9(5 Batilmrst-stireeD, Sydney
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment 00., Ltd., 90 Bathurst-stroet,
Sydney
JOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Australia, Googee^
The short journey to this enchanting bay is almost en-
tirely through open country, with scenery unsurpassed on
any tram-line out of Sj dney.
Tire TOBOGGAN KINK,
a recognised success, the intense speed and delightfully
exhilarating sensation far exceeding all inventions of the
kind, combined with ensured safety.
The Magnificent SWIMMING 15.11118,
with saltwater from the deep ocean continually flowing
through, and freshwater shower laid on.
Saturday Afternoon—Special Holiday Programme.
SUN BAY NEXT X3T The POPULAR CONCERT.
Distinguished Artistes !
Numbers from Favourite Operas !
Apmtsston, Is. ; Children, 6d.
A F, STnrronp, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—“ Miner's Daughter ”...p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.—" The Rajah ”
Criterion.—" The Butler ” ~
Y.M.O.A. Hall.—Miss Adelaide Detchon ~
That dreary place of penance, the Sydney
Gaiety, was re-opened on Monday by the fair and
fetching Adelaide Detchon, who had furbished up
the stage with flowers and ferns, and fancy lamps
and furniture, all tastefully dispersed in front of
the flats and wings of a wood scene, until it looked
as though an upholsterer’s show-room had gone
for a stroll in a primeval forest. Of a primeval
order also is the singing of Mr. Albert A.
Smith, who opens the vocal part of the
proceedings. This gentleman’s performance evi-
dently makes him ill, and it serves him right.
He looks uncomfortable and sings through his
teeth. The audience feel uncomfortable, and Wish
he would not sing at all. The beauteous Adelaide
is clever and attractive, and perfectly aware of
the fact. She puts on more side than a Presby-
terian Assembly, but she is beyond all question
the finest female elocutionist since Fanny Kemble.
Her voice, originally not powerful, has been ad-
mirably and thoroughly trained, so that it is quite
perfect and free from flaw all along its whole re-
gister. Some of her recitations are, consequently,
delightful, especially those which she has evi-
dently been taught by a skilled teacher.
Her “ Charcoal Man ” is delicious ; her Balcony
Scene from “ Romeo and Juliet ” less admirable,
inasmuch as she make 3 Juliet a mere baby, not a
passionate, precocious, Southern woman. Miss
Detchon’s singing is in its Way as good as her
elocution, but the original meagreness of her voice
shows through the effects of the wonderful train-
ing in her songs more than id her recitations.
Her singing of “Caller Herrin’” is a splendid
specimen of voeal art, and in Scott Gatty’s “JDaisy
Song ” she gives an invaluable lesson to the
drawing-room girl of the period. Miss Detchon
is one of the few women who have taken the
trouble to learn their business before appearing on
the stage, and if she could only forget her own
fascinations she would be twice as fascinating.
Mr. Bending, who is a good organist, is also a
capital accompanist, but he ought not to attempt
piano solos at all and he murders Chopin’s,
nocturnes and mazurkas. The Mustel organ on
which he also operates is a sweet but weak-toned
instrument with a bell accompaniment. Mr.
Bending played the overture to Zampa on this
construction horribly, breaking his time and spoil-
ing the piece. He also treated us to an “impro-
visation,” a rather odd name to apply to a pot-
pourri of familiar operatic tunes which winds up
with the well known Huntsman Chorus from
“ Der Frieschutz.”
* * #
The sons and daughters of the Southern
Amateur Theatrical Society sounded the loud
tocsin at Sydney Opera House on Monday last,
and went forth to raise the hair of an uncomplain-
ing audience which was glaringly conspicuous as
having mostly come in on the free-pass system.
An orchestra of about 15 nice young men walloped
the tuneful lyre with reasonable success, and then
the curtain rose upon that aged item of incompre-
hensibleness, “ Boots at the Swan.” There is a
reasonsble amount of talent about the Southern
Amateurs, but they are not equal to throwing
any light upon the problem, and Higgins
himself, as represented by Mr. C. Bellamy in a
moustache four shades lighter than his hair,
seemed to experience considerable difficulty
in getting out of the piece alive. Mr. Victor
Cohen, too, didn’t look like a captain and seemed
heavy rather than frisky, but he tore through his
part with considerable go; and Dr. Burne, as the
deaf boots and the drunk policeman, wiped out
all the other male actors and metaphorically swept
the floor with them. Miss Ina Wildman, how-
ever, took most of the applause and all the
bouquets, and in a general way grasped the vege-
table of success and planted the same on her
youthful brow by her rendering of the maiden
lady with the corkscrew curls. In an unhappy
interval the President of the society came for-
ward and spoke a yard of mangled speech, in the
course of which he said that on the whole—er —and
taking everything into—ahem —if not more so, also
viewing the—haw—er—er—in fact—bum—ah—eh
—oh—yah! The “ Crimson Scarf ” followed, and
the amateurs dropped into comic opera, where,
but for the brilliance of Mr. Ewen Cameron, one
at least of the company might remain to this day.
Mr. Cameron’s Sassafrasso, however, made up for
all defects, and, in addition to keeping the house
in a roar of mirth, that gentleman had an eye to
the properties, and removed the lamp just in time
to prevent it bursting into shivers against the
landscape. The Southern Amateur Theatricals
blossom out into drama four times per annum, but
there will be a rest before the next performance.
# # # *
A gleam of sunshine descended upon the
Haymarket (Sydney) Music Hall on Monday
night last, when Harry Rickards inserted himself
and his company in that rather cramped em-
porium, and was welcomed by as large an audience
as could be gathered together without forcing the
walls outwards into the street. The hunky kids
of Newtown and Redfern assembled in force, and
there was much enthusiasm, and screams that as-
cended to the welkin and did considerable damage to
that organ. The welkin has since closed for altera-
tions and repairs. The performance and the per-
formers were much the same as during the recent
season at the Opera House, and though the latter
suffered somewhat for want of elbow-roo ~ hey
got through to their own satisfaction as well as
that of the audience. It is a cold day when a
Sydney audience will not rise in delirious joy over
Mr. Rickard’s song about that intelligent Briton
who “ landed ” his wife in the eye for wasting his
supply of dog’s meat on the children, and as this
melody is still in good working condition things
are as promising as space will allow at the Hay-
maskot.
# # # #
More “Tomboy” has been raging this
week at Sydney Royal, but this exhausted show
is fast giving out. To-night (Thursday) that
seraphic vision of shreds and tatters yclept the
“ Miner’s Daughter ” will again flash across the
stage, and on Friday Carrie Swain will take a
final benefit for positively the last time, and not to
be repeated under any possible circumstances, as
she isn’t coming back any more this time. On the
ensuing evening (Saturday) the traditional glories
of “ Struck Oil ” will be revived, when Mr. Wil-
liamson will reappear after weary ages of absence
in the character of John Stofel, supported by
Maggie Moore as the guileless Lizzie. Someone
with a reckless soul and a big insurance on bis life
will probably officiate as Deacon Skinner, and the
public will have another opportunity of testing
the accuracy of the funereal stage superstition,
according to which no man can play Skinner and
long survive. The “ Chinese Question ” will make
up the rest of the bill, and if the Sydney public
has any veneration for the glories of the past,
Saturday night will commence a season of pros-
perity which will make the old Royal shake on
its foundations.
# # # #
“The Butler ” has tottered pretty nearly
through its allotted space, and on the last night
of this week the management of Sydney Criterion
will try their fortunes with that bright old
favourite, the “Private Secretary.” Mr. Frank
Thornton has already arrived per the Ormuz,
and his bath bun and his bottle of milk
are slung behind him. The Gaiety is also
about to resume an outer aspect of festivity, and
a voluble advertisement announces that Miss
Dora Wiley, the American prima donna, will
commence an opera season on December 1, with a
company that is stronger than the butter at our
boarding-house, and more enduring than the fowl
on which we operate vainly with an axe cadged
out of the back yard. Sundry private advices
confirm the high opinion expressed in the above
figures of speech, but we will await the advent of
the company before constructing any new meta-
phors on the subject. “The Rajah,” which still
holds up at Her Majesty’s against the sliDgs and
brickbats of Fortune and her daughter, about fills
up the balance of the Sydney shows for the cur-
rent week.
* # # #
Rather more than five years ago “ The
Squire ” was played in Melbourne under Mr.
Wybert Reeve’s management. It failed. On
Saturday this rustic poem made another attempt
to assert its excellence at the Bijou, and the result
was something that seemed like a success to the
uninitiated. Pinero has always held “The
Squire ” to be an original production of his own
brains, as, in point of dialogue, it is; but Mr.
Hardy, who wrote “Far from the Madding
Crowd,” is equally positive that Pinero cribbed
the plot of his chef d'oeuvre from the manuscript
of a play founded on the novel aforementioned,
by Hardy and Comyns-Carr, and which they had
submitted to the Kendals for approval. Anyhow,
Pinero improved on the rejected work, and when
“ Far from,” &c. was run in opposition to “The
Squire ” at another London theatre, that possible
plagiarism won in a canter. The old controversy
is worth referring to because of the calibre of the
parties concerned, and because it was a matter of
burning interest about the time when Hanlan first
gave Triekett fits.
• * *
Th 3 Squire is a sweet, young landed pro-
prietress, newly married to a high-toned, unin-
teresting army lieutenant, but she keeps the story
of her bliss locked within her gentle bosom, lest
the lieutenant's ma diould jib. Under these cir-
cumstances the Squire is much worried by her
steward, a frank and honest individual, who keeps
on telling his love until the poor woman has to
sack him in favour of soipe fossil remains held
together by a smock frock, and described as
Gunnion. Among several other sunburnt vassals
of Squire Kate is a jealous gipsy woman with a
devouring eye. This well-drawn character gets
mad with her mistress and eventually tells the
local apostle of terewth how the lieutenant makes
morning calls upon the Squire in the middle of the
night without ringing the bell. In fact, the
Squire’s marriage announcement is becoming a
matter of urgent necessity when it seems
that the lieutenant has strewn flowers
upon the grave of a former wicked wife
who wasn’t dead after all. Whereupon the
crushed steward sticks up the Squire with
an anxious enquiry: “Is this man your hus-
band ?” and a number of other harrowing episodes
are bathed in tears until the wicked other wife
dies in earnest, thus enabling the parson to finish
up with a few appropriate remarks. There are
outside passages of surpassing excellence in this
pastoral play, and several of the characters drop
remarks which live in the memory. Yet “The
Squire ” has never 4feeen able to hum along much
without the assistance of the company for whom
it wai specially built. The Brough and Bouci-
cault performers, who have sufficient talent to
make many weak comedies appear strong, now
make a strong play appear rather weak. At their
most successful moments they might be much
better. Little Miss Brenda Gibson gets applause
for a wooden representation of Felicity Gunnion,
but she suggests anything save a villager’s
daughter weaned on curds and whey. There is
no rustic flavour about Mr. Ireland’s idea of the
love-lorn steward, and he muddled a big situation
on Saturday night. Mr. Arthur Lawrence is
picturesome and stagey in his garish representa-
tion of a homely country parson, and Mr Bouci-
cault’s fossil Gunnion is not so clever as the lines
of-his part. Again, Miss Lucia Harwood makes
but little of the jealous servant, neither does
Titheradge come up to Kendal (a less capable
actor) as the much-married warrior. Finally,
Mrs. Brough is somewhat helpless in the name
character, which is beyond the reach of any actress
in Australia. Also the new music composed for a
quaint harvest glee is not equal to the original
tune This is a serious criticism of “ The Squire”
from a lofty point of view. If this beautiful play
proves a big draw at the Bijou “ it won’t make no
difference.”
* * # #
“ II Guarany,” a novelty in Italian operas,
made a wild and expensive first impression at
Melbourne Opera House, on Saturday. The
music of this work doesn’t give itself any airs
above its station, but I he plot is overrun by a
horde of dark-brown savages, who dress in beads
and feathers and look beautifully fearful. In the
course of the evening these iDjuns tie the tenor to
a tree and sing at him, while a medieval Cetewayo,
their chief, makes barbarous attempts to mash
the prima donna with his rolling eye. They
are, however, ultimately shot down in their
mountain fastnesses by some more respectably-
dressed bandits, after which there is a brief final
act terminating in the ruthless destruction of
everybody—or nearly everybody—by a guDpowder
explosion. Another tenor, Signor Venturi, sang
and acted in first-class form, and Verdi soared far
above any of his recent efforts in the majestic
capacity of Cetewayo. Signorina Ajmo and
others did themselves justice, and if “ II Guarany”
can’t fetch ’em then Mr. Simonsen will have
reasonable cause for cursing this degenerate age.
• * * #
“ La Mascotte ” is likely to fill the Prin-
cess’s for a reasonable period on account of Nellie
Stewart’s “ Glue-glue,” and other things too
numerous to particularise. Most of the principals
rise to the occasion when necessary, and the
voices of the female chorus are supported by legs
of unusual symmetry. Society asks for no more
than this. Other Melbourne shows are carried
forward from last week, ingenious advertising
having established “The World against Her” on
a firm basis at the Alexandra. But the burden of
this success appears to be breaking down Miss
Lily Dampier, whose tones are even as echoes
from the sepulchre, and whose waist is now re-
duced to 14J inches.
*# * *
According to latest lies, Mrs. Langtry
has at last got her divorce satisfactorily fixed up,
and has been joined again to Mr. Frederick Geb-
hardt, a shrill American boy with money and
curls and other personal attractions. The pair
are now living in retirement by the edge of the
cold, grey sea, and, if the money holds out, the
stage will see the Jersey Lily no more.
#* # *
Here is a chaste little gem from a Chicago
paper which is too good for the howling abysses
of oblivion. Let us observe beforehand, how-
ever, that this is a bit of a report of an interview
with Fay Templeton, the Yankee burlesque girl
who was dismissed from the London Gaiety (this
is a gospel fact!) for wearing too little clothing :
“ I aoted at the Gaiety,” she explained, “ in a burlesque
called ‘ Monte Christo.’ The oritios objeoted to my dress.
They were impertinent. What should English critics
know about dress V The dudes liked it.” And how, the
interviewer asked, did Miss Templeton like the dudeß ?
‘‘Fairly well; the English dude dresses well, but he is
dense —extremely dense.” She was also questioned
about the nobility whom she had met in these parts.
One was Lord Savernake. “He is a young dude who
married an aotress and ran away, or something. And the
Duke of Beaufort; he used to sit in a box at the
Gaiety, and I think he is bald. And—ob, I saw Mr.
Gladstone.” “In a box at the Gaiety?” asked the
interviewer. “ Oh, dtar no, I saw him in Parliament. I
went there just for a lark. Mr. Gladstone made quite a'
speeoh.” What did she think of him ? “He is rather
bald, is he not ? * Had she met the Prince of Wales ?
“ Certainly. He came behind the soenes at the Gaiety,
and was introduced to me. lie didn’t say muoh, but I
fancy he was pleased.” What did she think of him ?
“He is rather bald, is he not ? Indeed, now I come to
think of it, nearly all the nobility of England are bald.”
God bless the Prince of Wales ! God bless our
old nobility ! God bless all the p.ople who are
bald !
I* # * #
A nephew of Vincent Wallace has written
to a Dunedin (N Z.) paper denying that “ Mari-
tana ” was written in Sydney.
•## * *
The late Phil. Day’s sisters are In London
in destitute circumstances.
*J ' *
lima De Murska at latest was In New
York, living in a single room in deep poverty. A
subscription was being raised to send her to her
native country.
** # *
Imre Kiralfy, the operatic impressario,
selects his ballet-girls simply by inspecting their
hands. “Of course,” he said recently, “ a pretty
face has a great deal to do with it, but I never let
beauty run away with my judgment of how she
will look in tights, Some very handsome faces
ornament a very scrawny form that any amount
of padding would not make perfect. I can deter-
mine in the cases of 95 per cent, of the young
women who apply to me for situations whether
they will make a pleasing stage appearance or not.
I do this by judging of the contour of the hands.
For instance, a young woman of tall figure pre-
sents herself to me. As she is liable to be thin,
my examination is done more carefully than if she
were of a shorter build. If her fingers are long
and bony, I can see at once that she would be of
no use, as her limbs would be thin and her feet
long. If her fingers are long, but well covered
with flesh and tapering, then she will b 3 rf good
form, notwithstanding her height. If her fingers
are short and full, then she will be of excellent
figure.”
4 ®
In the good old days the rotten egg was
the censor of the drama We regret its abolition
in this capacity. It purified the stage, though it
befouled the actors, and there is a show or two
running in these colonies that badly want starch-
ing up with stale hen-fruit.
*# * *
Some miserable Auckland (N.Z.) amateurs
gave a performance for a local charity. Receipts,
£4B ; expenditure, £52. What do you think ?
« % «
Here is a fair specimen of the light spark-
ling music-and-the-drama writing which stage
hangers-on contribute to certain Melbourne
papers:—
Little Billie has a gee-gee,
Finer gee-gee ne’er was seen ;
A buggy too to put the horse in,
Billie s doing well, I ween.
We cull this flower of literature from the rollick-
ing Herald, explaining that “ Billie” is William
Elton. If it caught the comedian’s eye perhaps
he isn’t feeling so well as he did, but, on the other
hand, perhaps he thought it a “ capital notice.”
Generally speaking, any sort of jam suits the
perfesh.
## * *
A paity of barnstormers are at present
carrying ‘‘ Hamlet ” through Gippsland’s icy moun-
tains, and a succession of wildly derisive audiences
hoot the melancholy Dane and inquire where he
bought that hat. The excitement culminated the
other night when the Prince of Denmark com-
menced bis monologue, “To be or not to be,” in
the same easy tone that an ordinary citizen uses
when he asks the waiter to pass the bread, quite
unaware that some one had fixed on his back a
placard bearing the legend wrote sarcastic, “ The
audience is respectfully requested not to throw
bouquets.” “We ain’t a-goin’ to throw no
bloomin’ buckets,” yelled the pit, and the actor,
suspecting something wrong, started to twirl
round till be got up to the bill and read it. Next
morning he discovered the originator of the out-
rage and chased him for 41 hours with a bit ov a
shtick, but the ruffian got away and was seen no
more.
*# * *
Maple son, In his “Memoirs,” just pub-
lished, tells a gorgeous story of Patti. She was
singing for him at Boston under engagement at
£lOOO per night in advance. On one occasion he
had only £BOO to offer her agent, who declined the
money. Shortly after Franchi, the agent, re-
appeared. But let Mapleson tell the story in his
own words
“ I cannot understand,” said Franchi, “how it is you
get on so well with Mme. Patti. Mme. Patti does not
wish to break her engagement with you, as she certainly
would have done with anyone else under the circum-
stances. Give me the £BOO and she will be at the theatre
in good time for the beginning of the opera, ready dressed
in the costume of Violetta, with the exception only of the
shoes. You oan let her have the balance when the doors
open and the money comes in from the outside publio;
and directly she receives it she will put her shoes on, and
at the proper moment make her appearance on the
stage." I therefore handed him the £BOO sterling I had
already in hand as the result of subscriptions in advanoe.
After the opening of the doors I had another visit from
Signor Franohi. By this time an extra sum of £l6O
sterling had come in. I handed it to my benevolent
friend, and begged him to carry it without delay to the
obliging prima donna, who, having reoeived £9OO sterling,
might, I thought, be induoed to complete her toilet pend-
ing the arrival of the £4O balanoe. With a beaming faoe,
Signor Franchi came back and communicated to me the
joyful intelligence that Mine. Patti had got one shoe on.
“ Send her the £40,” he added, “ and she will put on the
other.” Ultimately the other shoe was got on ; but not,
of course, until the last £4O had been paid. Then Mine.
Patti, her face radiant with benignant smiles, went on to
the stage, and the opera, already begun, was continued
brilliantly until the end.
## # #
Henry trying, evidently much nettled by
George Moore’s article on “Mummer Worship’’
in the Universal Review, has delivered a speech
in defence of the “ perfesh.”to the Pen and Pencil
Club, Edinburgh.
“Ills Bulletin's" Christmas Number.
NOTICE TO ADVERTISERS.
To prevent disappointment, intending ad-
vertisers should now secure positions , as the
limited space available in this Special
Number is rapidly filling up.
A stranger momentarily left alone in a
barber’s-shop in Melbourne, the other day, at-
tempted to cut his throat with a razor. He did
not succeed—he used the barber’s razor.
“ The Vagabond ” returned to Australia
last week by the White Star steamer lonio, land-
ing at Hobart. He will be again let loose on Vic-
toria by the Age. Julian is fregh from Paris.
A Bulletin correspondent wants to know
whether the N.S.W. Government retrenchment
scheme is still going on. He suspects from the
number of recent appointments to the Civil Ser-
vice that the service is being increased instead of
being reduced.
The London Times, finding It inconvenient
to fight too many libel actions at once —we have
been there ourselves—has apologised and paid
costs to Pope Hennessy. It must be a terrible
thing for the Ttmes in its present frame of mind
to have to apologise to anybody named Hennessy.
The great colony of N.S. Wales has de-
clared itself insolvent. The other day an unfor-
tunate male person named Desailly sued the
Government for £787 and sundry odd coppers,
being money alleged to be due him under the pro
visions of the N.S.W. Rabbit Act, and the de-
fence set up was that there were no assets to meet
the bill, and it was consequently no use making a
row. The Bench —the Supreme Court Bench —
agreed with this view of the case, and a decision
was solemnly recorded that the plaintiff should
wait and see if anything was likely to turn up.
Mr. Desailly’s next move will probably be to file a
petition praying that the great colony of which
Parkes is so proud should be declared insolvent,
and then there will be trouble. Plain outside
people are now beginning to ask where Treasurer
Burns’ surplus has got to all at once, that the
State should be so mist rably dead-broke ; and an
impression ig gaining ground that it is time to
pass round the hat and take up a collection for a
land whioh, according to the Government, is “on
its uppers ” and doesn’t know what to do next.
Ib can hardly be said of Premier Parkes
that he is actually afraid of anybody, neverthe-
less it may be remarked that there is no man alive
who more readily recognises the existence of a
dangerous opponent. During all his political
career Parkes, until the other day, never had
much intercourse, either official or private, with
Mr. C. A. Goodchap, but when preparing the pre-
sent N.S.W. Railway Bill for Parliament he was
confronted with difficulties which, notwith-
standing his thorough knowledge of every subject
under heaven, he found rather serious. So
he sent for the wily Goodchap and began
to “ apply the pump; ” but Goodchap simply
answered in monosyllable®, “yes” or “ no,” and
could not be drawn out. Parkes wanted to see
whether Goodchap was willing to lease his brains,
but Goodchap was not by any means ready to let
Parkes pose at his expense as a great authority on
railway-matberp. At last the Hairy Bismarck
found himself compelled to ask questions of a
more pointed character. Then Goodchap turned
round and said : “ Do you wish me to speak out
unreservedly, and tell you what I really think
about your Bill ?” Parkes said yes, he should be
delighted, whereupon Goodchap proceeded to
tear the Bill to pieces clause by clause. When
4 o’clock, and with it the meeting of Parliament
approached, and the cld man looked with dismay on
the ruin which had been made, he pressed the bell-
knob and called the messenger, to whom he handed
a bundle of papers, saying, in his piping childish
treble: “Take these to the Co-10-nial Trea-surah
and tell ’im that Hi shall not go on with the Rail-
way Bill to-night in consequence of my se-ve-ah
cold.” Parkes evidently thinks that his “ severe
cold ” may return should he not get rid of Good-
chap until next general election shall have been
negotiated—hence the comfortable appointment
he has just conferred on the ex-Commissioner.
For, should Goodchap enter Parliament, he will
undoubtedly be in the next Ministry, and when
he does become a Minister it will very speedily be
found that he is the sort of personage out of whom
a forceful and wily Premier could easily be manu-
factured. The general public have a very hazy
idea of the metal of which Mr. Charles Augustus
Goodchap is really composed.


Wolfe's Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain Wolfe’s,
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
S'ven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
ress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Ru sell-street, MELBOURNE,
PEPPER
Salt
Hev. Sam. Chapman, a very shining light
among the Melbourne Baptists, says that “he
often feels a perfect hunger for someone to preach
tb him ” We will preach to him
A shrunken Chow with a kind heart came
near to meeting a violent death in Little Bourke-
street, Melbourne, the othfer night. Ah Sin was
enjoying a moonlit ramble when he saw two of
the district nymphs engaged in civil war. As a
heathen and a leper, gentle Ah Sin felt grieved to
find a pair of blood-stained ladies hanging on to
each other’s golden hair, so with his long, bony
hands he parted them, observing, “No likee see
little Tobtie fightee, no dam good at allee.” The
intervention of this decayed apparition was ac-
cepted in an aggressive spirit by the rival factions
Moved by one common impulse the nymphs laid
hold of Ah Sin, dragged him down into the open
drain, and solemnly eat upon bis ruins. The
gutter tide was flowing deep and fast, and the fate
of the peacemaker was covered by the murky
waters—but just at that point when he would have
sunk for the third time if he had ever been allowed
to rise meanwhile—a policeman came along and
rescued the drowning foreigner. The leper was
cleansed, but this story is otherwise d void of
moral. .
• * *
A long and elaborate article dealing with
the complicated subject of meat in its relations
to the beloved mother-country appears in a
Sydney weekly, and a careful study of ib con-
vinces us that animal food is the secret of Britain’s
greatness. Half a century ago—about 1837 and
1840 each intelligent Britain ate 661 b, of meat
per annum, and the quantity rose steadily and
persistently until the year 1887 found him devour-
ing no less than 1061 b. in the course of the year.
It is thus demonstrated that the Englishman'of
the period eats every year four-fifths of a pound
more flesh than he ate the year before, and as his
carnivorous tendencies are always on the rise it
may reasonably be assumed on the Parkesian plan
of prophecy, that the year 1.1,887 will find him
consuming nearly four tons of beef annually, or,
say, 231bs. per diem. These figures, of course, are
only approximate, for the world has nob yet
lasted long enough to settle conclusively how
much meat an Englishman can eat when he has
been specially fitted for the work by centuries of
careful training, but they are sufficiently reliable
to point to the approach of an era when the Anglo-
Saxon shall graze all over the habitable globe and
consume his food in every land even unto the
uttermost ends of the earth Then there will be
sounds of digestion and stomach-ache upon Green-
land’s icy wastes and on India’s liver-demoralising
strand, and the whole earth will give itself up to
victuals and there will be a great calm. The last
remark doesn’t connect in any particular way with
thd one which went before it, bub it sounds Scrip-
tural-like and seems as if it filled the bill.
* * •
Some paragraphic fiend on the London
press has dug up an old, infernal story about an
incident which once befell his gracious Queen. It
was some years ago, when Wales used to drink
harder than he can do now, and with less fear of
bringing his unhonoured, bald head with sorrow
underneath the table. There was a garden party
at Marlborough House, and Victoria by the Grace
of God bad for once consented to attend. Conse-
quently the party split up into two halves—the
elderly, pious, and seedily-dressed section gather-
ing round the Queen, while the hard-drinking
aggregation, which sat up late at night to
play cards and indulge in other unholy games,
held aloof as much as possible, and ob-
served in bitterness of spirit that it was a
“ boah.” But at lasb one of Wales’s par-
ticular friends, being filled with the spirit of evil
and feeling himself stared out of countenance by
Her Gracious, who had frozen hard by this time
and was glaring in disgust, lurched heavily across
to the Throne and held out his hand as if to draw
the royal attention to the fact that it had been
washed. Then he looked vacantly in the face of
the royal prerogative and the other fixings, and
said in husky tones; “Y’r fashe p’f kly f’mil’r,
can’t r’memb’r y’r name.” The story stops there,
but there is documentary evidence in existence
among the archives of the Crown which leads us
to believe that Victoria rose and issued her Im-
perial ukase on the spot that Wales’s friend should
be removed at once on a shutter.
Dearly beloved Chappy,
A shepherd sleek are you,
Breaching a garbled Gospel
To all who book a pew ;
According tb your liver •
You paint their future state,
And when you’ve earned your money
You send along the plate.
Vour own appointed elders
Abotlt the aisles do stand,
And if a sheep has moiiey
They shake his holy hand ;
But at the seedy stranger
Most piously they stare—
He hasn’t booked a sitting, <
And he isn’t wanted there; _
Ilearly beloved Chappy,
You boss a little clique,
Who muster round your pulpit
One day in every week j
They are your chosen people,
The salt of Chappy’s earth,
And you have to “ cotton ” to ’em
Or you wouldn’t keep your berth.
Alas ! for all the sinners
Who cannot well afford
To buy the blessed message
You are bringing from the Lord.
The fashionable shepherd
Has a fashionable flock,
And your angels of the future
Are at present on the Block.
Dearly beloved Chappy.
The Scripture tpacheth us
A lot of libtle lessons
’Twere unpleasant to discuss ;
And if you be a Christian,
We are terribly mistook,
For your Collins-sbreet religion
I sn’t written in the Book.
Sharkbites.
In one firm of solicitors in Sydney there
arte six partners.
There is not a Q.C. at the N.S.W. Equity
Bar. C. J. Manning, nbphew of the late primary
judge, should be the next to wear silk.
In S.A. about 18 lawyers are in Parlia-
ment. At the next N.S.W. general election
numbers of the “perfesh.” are coming out.
Solicitors are competeiit to address the
judge in the Bankruptcy Courts. Why should
they not be able to do so in the Jury Cohrts ?
Circumstances alter cases. And there are
scores of briefless barristers around just now who
would very much like to geb hold of soiile cases
that would alter their circumstances.
THE CHALK FIEND.
“WHO CAN TELL WHAT SPIRITUAL COMFORT THIS LITTLE AWAKENER
MAY AROUSE?—PERHAPS EVEN YOU, MY POOR BOY, MAY BETURNED
FROM THE ERROR OF YOUR WAYS, AND MADE TO FEEL THE TOR-
MENTS OF THE WICKED!”
Way, now C.J. of South Australia, at the
time R. I. Stow, Q.C., was local leader of the Bar
there, was a humble drudge in an attorney’s
office. In the future Stow became J., and Way
C.J.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, the “journey-
man judge,” now on the Victorian bench, still has
a tin plate up with his name on in Wentworth
Court, Sydney. Allowing the briefs to accumu-
late ?
Amalgamation of the professions will not
for many years wipe out fat briefs to counsel. In
Queensland, where amalgamation obtains, solicitors
rarely appear before a Judge of the Supreme
Court and counsel still receives his fee.
A tailor in an Australian colony had fivb
sons. One became Q C., K.C.M.G., and Pre-
mier ; another, Commissioner in Insolvency ; two
others, solicitors, and the remaining one a magis-
trate. The brightest and most gifted of all died a
few years ago.
A photographer in a Western county was
elected sheriff last fall. He had his first hanging
two weeks ago, and just as the drop was about to
fall he unconsciously took out his watch, glanced
at the condemned man, and softly said, “Now,
look pleasant, please.”— Yankee Perjury.
Sir Frederick Darley, C. J., said the other
day in Sydney that he “ did not see why attor-
neys should have any more privileges than the
general public.” Why then does his Honor allow
the attorney to “attach ” for costs— i.e , place in
gaol—the defendant or plaintiff, as the case may
be ? The poor client may whistle for the amount
of his verdict, though the attorney is permitted to
pub a stone into gaol and try to squeeze blood out
of it.
The Brickbat.
(Slung by TITUS SALT.)
An Austrian gentleman named Junner-
inan has invented another aid to civilisation in the
shape of an explosive shell charged with a deadly
fluid of great importance. When the shell bursts
the fluid resolves itself into a homicidal gas which
utterly abolishes the spot on which the implement
descended and removes the whole surrounding
district at one jump. It rakes down houses and
dissolves building materials bodily; it sets trees
on fire, and as it passes over the grass it reduces
it to ashes; it wipes out men and obliterates
women and abolishes children, and not content
with merely killing thein it cleans away their re-
mains, and utterly and for eVer chaws them up
and sweeps up the wreckage. It removes hogs
and galvanised iron with equal facility and it
breathes on large tanks full of water, and
after one awful instant of steam and hissing and
frantic combustion the tank is gone for the rest of
time. It overtakes the ordinary garden ass, and
with a sniff and a lcok of wild astonishment the
ass shrivels up, and it does grubbing and clearing
Work with a thoroughness and vigour that leave
the earth bare. It removes tall chimneys and
turns them into dust, and then it removes the dust
and hoists away the place the dust had stood
upon, and \Vrecks the ground underneath the
place as well. It flabbergasts brass statues
and throws the flinders of them overboard
into the general deluge, and it swamps things
ill general, large and small, and bears them
away into unknowableliess. If Junnerman
is in the full possession of his senses and isn’t
lying, one quart of this tempestuous liquor is suf-
ficient to annihilate everything that could be
stood upon three acres of ground, and a hogshead
of it would probably eat the Earth. Nothing is
too small for it to devour and nothing is too large.
It annihilates the fly and along with it the 800
tons of railway-iron on which the insect is sitting
unsuspicious of coming evil; it blows softly on
the elephant and scoops that animal right out of
its hide, and along with the pachyderm goes
the ant which had just been asking the big
animal who it thought it was a-shovin’ of;
it is analogous to faith, for it removes moun-
tains when there is enough of it, but, unlike faith,
it can be carried about in its liquid form in a jug
until a sudden concussion starts it out on its mis-
sion of general wreck, and it doesn’t lean upon an
anchor as faith does, for the thing it leans against
is lost. It also resembles hope, for it always ex-
pects to get there, but it arrives sooner than hope,
and gets away again to damage something else.
When it opens proceedings there is one eternal
rip in the atmosphere, and a whirlwind of fire,
and a row as if the earth had broken into 10,000
pieces and upwards, and a rush of something
through the air, and an appalling crash, and
20,000 roars, and then for a moment the
landscape is filled with blazing serpents
and flying hunks of sheol —and all is
over. Junnerman wants to sell this invention to
the Austrian Government, but the bewildered
Cabinet can’t make up its mind yet whether to
hang him and then burn his dead body and blow
away the ashes, or to give him a hundred million
florins for the patent and make him two dukes and
a prince. The war-party in the Ministry want to
buy the new idea right off, but the older and wiser
members of the administration point oub that
when they had paid over the money the inventor
would probably smile a fiendish smile which would
be heard a loDg distance away, and then throw a
bag of gas at them and destroy them, after which
he would depart to sell the patent over again to a
hostile Power. So for the present they have told
him to stand by and lie low.
• * *
Here is a legend which is calculated to
make the intellect of the Australian digger totter
in his head as he wearily washes out gravel that
yields an uncertain return of 2dwt. to the ton in
lonely gullies where Kum Chew and his brother
Kew Chum taint the balmy breezes of the summer
morn. Away in Borneo, by the side of a little
river, a wandering European has come across a
huge hole in the ground, and he explains the
reason of it thus. Several ages ago a Dyak hunter
—he was named in his mother tongue “ Eater-of-
stfangers at midnight,’ but that has no connection
with the story—discovered a huge mass of gold
embedded in the soil, and after nearly breaking
his back in his efforts to lift it out and live in
affluence ever afterwards he went home and in
vited 3!) able-bodied friends to bear a hand. Then
the whole 40 hauled and tugged and strained at
the mass, but it sat peacefully up on end and
moved not an inch. The company got riled at
this, and refreshed themselves by killing one or
two aged people who lived near, and then they
rolled up their sleeves—at least they would have
rolled them up if they had had enough clothes on
to roll —and started to dig in a frenzy of excite-
ment. All that day they dug deeper and
deeper, and all the next day they perspired
at the bottom of their excavation and delved
away, and still they failed to reach the
bottom of that mass of metal. Eor an entire
week they dug, and at the end of that time 40 feet
of solid gold was exposed, and the company which
wallowed in the earth at the bottom of the hole
had visions of a dividend which would enable
every man to buy the whole earth for himself—
and then the tremendous hunk of wealth slowly
canted over and crushed the whole undressed syn-
dicate into nothing. There was one agonised yelp
of appalling horror from underground, and all was
ovef. After that the Dyaks fled from the spot in
dismay, and never approached it any more. The
gold is still there, and the latest estimates state
that there are not enough oughts on earth to en-
able its value to be written down. The man who
finds it and carries it away will be in a position to
buy up Rothschild and Mackay and Astor
and Vanderbilt and Jay Gould, and set
them to play marbles with Koh-i noors in
his backyard, and if he wants further amuse-
ment he can purchase the solar system and tell
Providence to make another one and call round
any morning for the money. If the Australian
digger is the man we take him for he will start
out at once to look for this treasure. It is still
there, for nothing has yet been built that is strong
enough to remove it, and besides if it had been
moved the earth would have tipped up with the
strain and staggered perceptibly on its axis.
Nobcdy of late has felt the globe reel sufficiently
to account for all this money if it is gone, neither
has the whole human species been observed out on
a stupendous drunk, or the entire area of the five
continents been transposed into one overwhelming
public-house, to show what has become of it if it
is spent, so the force of irresistible logic points to
the conclusion that it is still about. And if
Australia is ever to be the nation that she is
cracked up to be she must have it.
Cold Pic Blake.
Dear Bulletin,-It is very har-r-d to know
what Sir Thomas MTlwraith objects to in
the O’Blake. Why the man was made for
the billet av governing Quanesland. He has
been a Governor before to-day, an’ a po-leece
inshpecthor in Ould Oireland, and a magshisthrate,
begorra ! Not good enough ! Bejabers, what do
the Bananamen want; is it a Dcok they realther ?
The O'Blaik is near to that same, too, for didn’t
his wife’s sister, Miss Gbacie Osborns, of New-
town, County Tipperary, marry His Grace the
Dook of St. Albans, and if the O’Blaik’s wife
isn’t a Dook herself, sure her sister’s one and
that’s coming pretty close up to it. Thin his own
family, tare and ’ouns, but it’s a be-yootiful and
antake genealogy, spreading down from the re-
mote ages of our common ancesthor Adam Brian
Boru. Listen, bhoys, whilst we rade it to yez.
His son—mark ye, ye spalpeens, he has a son, has
the O’Blaik —his son, Misther Harry Irwin
Blake, sez in the papers Johat his ould dad, Sir
Henry Arthur O’Blaik, did the world the
honour of beiDg born at Tuam, county Galway, on
the 18th January, 1839, whirroo! In 1862 he was
married to Miss Irwin, the daughter of Misther
Andrew Irwin, of Ballymore—look at that now !
—Boyle, county Roscommon. In 1874 he was
married agin, and so he was, to Miss Edith
Osborne, the elder daughter and co-heir of
Ralph Bernal Osborne, of Newtown, county
Tipperary, and don’t you forget it! Not good
enough to govern Quanesland ! What are ycu
giving us, bhoys? Why, doesn’t his son say he’s
relaited to Baron Wallscourt, of Ardfry, county
Galway ? Isn’t he the husband of a second wife
whose sisther’s husband is a Dook ? Is it
the refusal of Manchester ye’re axing ? Not fit
to govern Quanesland! You make us shmile.
Didn’t he git Her Grashus Majesthy’s approval,
and ain't he responshible to the blissid Crown
alone ? And if ye want more qualifications, be
jabers— Ain’t his son, Misther Harry Irwin
O’Blaik, bin in Quanesland two years and a
half ? Ain’t he at present in Brisbane ? Wasn’t
he formerly engaged in the sugar planting indus-
thry in Fay Jay, and isn’t he the sort of son for a
man to have who wants to pursue the sugar in-
dusthry in Quanesland? Qualifications! Now,
look here, bhoys, what do yez want ? Didn’t Sir
Henry write a book about the “ Picshcors from
Oireland ”in the year of our Lord 1884 ? Didn t
he publish it, too, under the pathriotic name cf
Therence M'Grath, and hasn’t he bin a fray
quent conthributor to the Noineteenth Cintury
and St. James’ Gazitte, of which no less than
six copies are printed every day in the wake ?
Qualifications! Bad cess to ye, isn’t Lady
O’Blaik a “litherary woman of conshiderable
qualities ” hersilf ? Hasn’t she got a reputation
as a writher? Isn’t she authoress of “Twelve
Munts in Southern Europe,” now! Didn’t she
write “ The Realiti es of Freemasonry ?” Tel 1 me tb at!
Besides, bhoys, isn’t she an arthist of conshider-
able sthoyle ? Isn’t a Governor whose woife is an
artist good enough for yez? Besides, the O’Blaik
is a direct discindinb of Terence Feargus O’Blaik
who shid his preshus blood in the faction fight at
Murtogh-Mannough between the MacShandy-
gaffs of Ballyhooly and the O’Flantyballyans
of Killaloe, Isn’t he relaited to all the anshint
blood of Oireland ? Didn’t his fathers and his
uncles and all his relations marry all over the
peerage and contract intimate acquaintances wid
most of the names in Burke’s “ Landed Gin try ” ?
Wasn’t the Duke of Loontylannigan a near neigh-
bour to Patrick Muldoon O’Blaik, who was a
second uncle thrice removed to the gentleman who
performed the thrying part of great-great-great-
grandfather’s cousin to the subject of the prisint
sketch? Not good enough to govern Quanesland ?
Does MTlwraith want the Prince of Wales?—
M. Murphy.


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Pathnthd Arti
fioal Ear Drums, Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effected. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
(ti red by these Drums, and who reoommend them —D»
NICHOLSON, 36 William Strrrt, Melbourne.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wil
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B. —Only two hours from Melbourne.
FORBIfiIH STAMPS FOR COIIECTIW8: Our
new price list can ba obtained on application.
Selections of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, POST FREE 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. Old collections purchased,
P A. VIWDIff A CO., Box 660, General Post
Office, SV»>M V
JOHN M‘EWAN & CO.,
auctioneers,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
35-page Lifet Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale Issued Dally.
All Lists posted Free on application,
Personal Items.
Blake, C.M.G.—Cold Meat Glutton.
The Governor of South Australia rides a
tricycle. Even this is better than riding the high
horse.
Oliver Wendell Holmes says the “best
three books ” are the Bible, Shakespeare’s Plays,
aud a good dictionary.
Herr Schleyer, the Inventor of Volapiik,
has gone where a universal language is an ac-
complished fact. In short, he’s dead.
Kerry, the “New Guinea explorer,” means
to publish his experiences, illustrated by pen-and-
ink sketches bj himself—and also of that nugget,
we hope.
The Executive Council of N.S.W. in 1864
consisted of (with the Governor) eight persons, of
whom only Geoffrey Eagar and Peter Fawcett
now live.
Sir Hercules Robinson is not likely to ac-
cept another colonial governorship. He thinks he
ha 3 been exiled sufficiently long from Newmarket
and Sandown.
Boßwell, who represented NZ. at Mel-
bourne draughts tournament, is. the only N.Z.
draughts player who succeeded in beating “ the
Herd Laddie” Wyllie.
Dr. Gerhardt, of Dresden, who is figuring
so prominently in the squabble between Sir Morell
Mackenzie and the German doctors, was at one
time in practice in Wellington, N.Z
The largesse of our old friend Benz on, the
“ Jubilee Juggins,” was positively tremendous.
He paid one cousin’s debts to the extent of £15,000
and he was profusely generous to his friends.
A Sydney paper states that Frank Gardi-
ner, the once-notorious bushranger, is not dead,
as has been alleged. He is on the contrary very
much alive, and is now somewhere in Australia.
Guard Darby, who had charge of the
first railway train which ran out of Sydney, in
1855 has just retired on pension. Sixsmith, the
driver of the engine on that day, retired last year.
In delivering his tirade against the colony
of Victoria, Angus Cameron, M.L.A , evidently
forgot the many pleasant nights and pleasant
fellows he met at the Eclectic Society in Melbourne
.J udge Gillies, of N.Z., decided, the other
day, that a man whose friends sought to secure his
release from a Lunatic Asylum was of unsound
THE STORY OE A ROCK.
“My wold,” said Botch, the great Austialian landscape painter,
“What a study of a rock! I’ll bring my traps here and paint
it. It will be the making of my reputation 1 ”
Ho g«-es home and
prepares a huge canvas.
Then lajs in a new tkotuhing
umbrella and unlimited painting
materials.
And proceeds to where the lock teas, for
a ayndicatB had been formed to blow it up
with blasting-powder and rain the artist s
hopes.
mind but was still capable of managing his own
affairs.
The present Czar of Ruisia, when a boy,
killed his brother Nicholas, accidentally, when
playing at leap-frog A memorial church to the
dead Prince, has just been erected at the Mount
of Olives.
Rev. J. H. Zillman has resigned the
editor’s chair of the Darling Downs Gazette,
and has gone to England by the Jumna on a
leeburing tour in the emigration interests of
Queensland.
On the Common, at Molong, N.S.W., is
buried, in an unmarked grave, a brother of Eng-
land’s corn-law reformer, Richard Cobden. He
kept, as an inn, in the years gone by, the house at
Vale Head, now the homestead of Mr. Bett, J I.
Lord Tennyson is not likely to leave an
autobiography behind him. He recently likened
the process of such public exhibition to “being
ripped up like a pig,” which coarse expression one
would not expect to hear from the lips of the man
who wrote “ Elaine. ’
J. G. Knight, Commissioner from the
Northern Territory to Melbourne Exhibition, was,
a generation ago, an architect in that city, and
designed the marble palace which was intended
for the Houses of Parliament. The design, how-
ever, has been modified.
Monanga, the black king of Uganda,
Africa, has 15,000 wives, and is on most excellent
terms with ever so many other ladies. He
butchers five of his spouses daily out of pure
cussedness. He is the biggest slave-merchant in
Africa, and disposes of 150,000 slaves annually.
Rumour saya that the Dake of Norfolk
is contemplating a second marriage—with the
widow of American General Sheridan. Considering
that the Duke’s present heir-apparent is dumb,
deaf, blind and insane, any further propagation
of his species is to be deprecated on scientific
grounds.
The late Marshall Bazaine was the son of
a Versailles greengrocer. In his latter days he
was reduced to penury, and in a letter to an officer
who had served under him he wrote : “It is not a
loan that I ask, for it would be dishonourable to
call it by that name, as I have no hope of being
able bo return it.”
Sergeant Jem Dalton, whose rich brogue
originated the term “ larrikin,” passed out of
Melbourne history last week. Dalton was a bor a
policeman, and after his friends had persuadtd
him to send in his resignation he turned gently
over on his sick bed and died forthwith. He had
nothing else to live for.
The Jolimont railway-accident of. six or
seven years ago shortened the lives of several men
who escaped from the disaster with scarcely a
bruise. It was a common idea that Mr. Auc-
tioneer Bliss had got excessive damages out of the
Victorian Government until that genial old war-
rior prematurely died. And now Mr. Lange,
another of the “lucky” Jolimont brigade, has
been cut off in the early autumn of his wholesale
wine and groceries career. Mr. Lange (Lange
and Thoneman) showed symptoms of paralysis
very soon after the great smash.
Lord Lucan, a muddle headed warrior,
regarded as partially or solely responsible for the
“Noble Six Hundred” doing something they
couldn’bgeb out of doing, died, it is cabled, the other
day. His Lordship was a giddy old man, and at 70
years of age he figured as the protector of two
French women who become mixed up in some
forgotten trouble. All his life he ate and drank
phenomenally little and had his food and drink
apportioned to him by measure and by weight—a
Eractice with which he was early indoctrinated by
is father, who had got the idea from Louis
Cornaro’s curious old book, now well nigh for-
gotben.
When Jay Gould retired from business re-
cently, on the plea that he “ wanted rest,” his
dubious fellow countrymen said to themselves,
“ Yes, the rest of the railways.’ Bub the great
financier really is ill, and we read that his sole
amusement in seclusion is the study of plans for
a mausoleum for himself and his wife. He pro-
poses to complete all ihe details of his Dst re3biDg-
placa, if possible, during hiR life. It will be very
elaborate, richly ornamen'ed, and guarded by in-
genious mechanical contrivances against burglars.
This tomb will be 100 feet in height, and will
cover half an acre of ground. Is will be adorned
with handsome pieofs of soulplnr-*, and the walls
will be of granite three feet in thickness The
doors will be guarded by irg ni us mechamcal
devices, which will ensure destruction to any rash
individual not knowing the way to open them.
The coffins of the great financier and his wife are
already being manufactured by a Boston firm.
They are to be of solid mahogany seven inches in
thickness, elaborately carved and ornamented,
and will cost £lOOO each.
The N.S.W. Government has decided that
the “ Ordnance Storekeeper and Barrack Master,”
a person who is understood to be in some way con-
nected with the “ Gunpowder Act of 1870,. «haJl
in future be known as the “ Deputy-Assistant-
Commissary-General of Ordnance, ’ provided he
can carry the Dame without falling down. The
man who suffers from this cognomen is also loaded
down with the title of Major and is pretty nearly
crushed with salary and allowances.
A recent Queensland Parliamentary return
contains much interesting information concerning
the alienation of land in that go-ahead colony.
The four largest holders—Tyson, 229,748 seres;
Archer, 179,240 acres ; Fisher, 101,947 acres; and
Taylor, 147,310 acres—own amorg them about
three-quarters of a million acre 3 of freehold land,
and are, in consequence, strongly opposed to the
imposition of a land-tax Among other large
owners are the Bank of N.S W„ 128,975 acres ;
the other banks combined, 120,000 acres ; while
the Brodribbs, Menzies, Douglasses, Fairbairos,
M‘Connells, Macanshes, Wienholts, and Willises,
hold areas varying in size from sixty to a hundred
thousand acres. Two million acres of Queensland
soil are apportioned among 15 individuals, firms,
and corporations, while the total unalienated ar f a
is between 11 and 12 million acres.
The new American anti-ChinesB law is a
document which says a lot in a very small space.
It is about four inches long altogether, but inside
these small dimensions it manages to lay di|ym
two immense principles : first, that the Chow wno
is outside shall not come in; and second, that
when the Chow who is inside goes out he shall re-
main out. All the small restrictions of the old
law are abolished right off, and this little thing
which the U.S. Congress has dashed off fills the
place of a score of elaborate enactments, and saves
so much trouble that the people are beginning to
wonder that they never thought of it before.
POLTICAL
POINTS
The sales of real property in Victoria
during the present year total the enormous amount
of £11,000,000.
Shakespearian epitaph on Habigle’s retire-
ment from political life—“ Minister to a Mine
deceased.”
A Cairns (Q ) Chinaman named Jimmy Ah
Ohing purchased £5701 worth of land at a recent
local Government land-:ale.
Sir Homy Paikissays that members of
Parliament in Australia should be, above all
things, thorough Englishmen.
Premier Parkes is as mad as a wet hen at
the manner in which MMlwraith and Queensland
are rushing along towards Independence
Humph ! Lord Norman by declines the
“cold shoulder ”in the shape of the West Austra-
lian governorship. Beggars may not be choosers.
Shakespeare revised (for the use of N.S. W.
politicians): “There’s something rotten in the
State of Denmark, that taken at the tide leads on
to fortune.”
Sir Henry Blake’s salary as Governor of
the Bahamas was £2200, and at Newfoundland be
drew £2400. The Governorship of Queensland is
worth £5OOO.
‘• Dawvid ’ Buchanan, M.P.,(N S.W.) says
that Statist Coghlan’s book is “a bewildering
jumble of fallacies glimmering through an atmos
phere of incoherence.”
Mr. H. Tennent Donaldson does not
attribute his conversion from Freetrade to Pro-
tection to Pulsford, so it is very likely that P>. R.
Wise is guiby this time.
At a dinner given by the Canley Yale
(N.S.W.) Progress Association recently, the first
toast was “ Tae land we live in,” and that of
“The Queen ” was the last.
The interview between M‘Uwraith ar.d
Griffith, in which the latter agreed to concur with
the Q reersland Premier’s action in objecting to
Governor Blake, only occupied four minutes.
N.Q. el.ctlon advt.
Wanted, electionearing agent. Good pay to tha
sort. Mast bi a loud-mouthed, shameless liar. Apply to
the English, Irish, and Scotch candidate.
An N Z. number of Parliament has ju t
had judgment recorded against him for w-iges that
had been owing for four years. This legislator
has to stump up right off or go to gaol for three
months.
In N jrth Queensland, the other day, a
flash of lightning slid along a wire fence and killed
nine head of cattle which were standing in a row.
This should bs a solemn warning to all our rail-
straddling politicians.
The Parkes Ministry do not want ex-
Commissioner Goodchap to enter N.S.W. Parlia*
ment, so they have given him an appointment (f
£l5OO a year to travel round for a few and in-
spect the railways of the earth.
Ex-Empress Eugenie declares that she his
important papers which prove the entire falsity of
the writing attributed to Emperor Frederick —
that Napoleon wanted to engage in an alliance
with Germany against England.
Minister for Justice Clarke, of N.S.W.,
“admits that Judges and Ms.P. are not on all-
fours.” Quite so It is a long time since we saw
a judge on sell Tours, but we have often seen a
member on all-fours —in the refreshment-room.
Premier M‘llwraibh, we hear, will not
back down to the Colonial Office., What will pro-
bably happen, should the Imperial authorities
persist in forcing Blake on Queensland, will be
M‘Jlwraith’s resignation—and a deadlock.
Three members of the N.S.W. ministry—
Messrs. Clarke, Sutherland, and Abigail—are in
favour of payment of members, while five— Parkes,
Burns, Brunker, iDglis, and Roberts—-are opposed
to it. a bill in favour of the principle is, how-
ever. to be introduced.
A deid-alive Brisbane Griffibhite weekly
would regret if M‘llwraith broke down just now.
And why ? Because it would be inconvenient for
the health of our only ownest Psalmyell to step
into his place. There is an idea in Brisbane that
Griffith is working for a coalition.
M‘llwraith’s pivot, as the Colonial Oliice
well knew, is and has long been Home Rule and
Nationalism for Queensland. It has pleased the
Colonial office to endeavour to foist on Queens-
land an instrument, a flagrant instrument, ot
Coercion in its most repulsive form.
One-tenth of the total wealth of civilised
nations is represented by the railroads of the
world. The capital engaged in banking is but a
trifle beside it. The world’s whole stock of money
of every kind—gold, silver, and paper —would
purchase only a third of its railroadp.
Mr. T a thill, M.P., was growling in the
Victorian Assembly about the partition of his
electorate, when Premier Gillies wiped him out by
remarking, “ We’ll throw the Beechworth Lunatic
Asylum in to make up, and if we allov- the
inmates to vote your election will be certain.
The British authorities have issued a
warrant for the arrest of Dinizulu. By. and bye
there will be no war. A potentate will simply
issue a warrant for the arrest of the other fellow
and hand it for execution to the police, who will
scruff His Majesty allee same Captain Wright.
The“‘ Times declares that the Australian
Anti Chinese agitation is the “outcome of a poli-
tical trick ” ; it also avers that the opposition to
the appointment of Cold Pie Blake to the Queens-
land Governorship is purely Irish. We are be-
ginning to think that the Times is edited by John
Haynep.
Premier M‘llwraith says that Queensland
is too yonng to think of estaldishing an ammuni-
tion and small-arms factory for herself. . That
indicates an indecent halt A colony playing fte
forward game which, under M'Hwraith, Queens-
land has been playiDg, should not confess to such
raw immaturity.
An open-hearted member rose to make a
few remarks 'he other evening in the N.S.W.
Assembly. Hs said that he didn't know anything
about the question then before the House, and he
wasn’t going to oppose the motion because he
diln’t know what the motion was about, but he
hit that he must say something. Then he went
on and faid it.
Mr. Henry Tennant Donaldson, a Foreign-
trade candidate at last N.S W. general election,
is the most reesnt convert to the doctrine of Pro
tection. He opposed Mr. Coll, at Yass. Mr.
Donaldson, who wields a slashing pen, and often
employs it m the cause of Liberalism, is a nephew,
wa believe, of Sir Stuait Alexander Donaldson,
the earnest Colonial Secretary under responsible
Gov.-inment in N.S.W.
Sir ‘Enry Pa'kes broke out into “ potry ”
over the N.S W. financial question the other
night. He ta'ked about—
The pride to rear an independent shed
To give the lips we lose unborrawed bread.
Some of the memb rs sighed heavily then. They
were probably wishing that particular sort of
pride were a little more general amongst pro-
minent politicians as it were.
Ic is thought by some of the Chinese resi-
dents of Sydney that Quong Tart will meet with
same thorns in the Flo wery Land. His country-
men do not all consider that his influence in Aus-
tralia has been used to the best purpose. Tart will be
asked to explain what he meant by saying some
time ago that there were Chinamen enough in
Australia, and will be interrogated as to his dif-
fuse liberality towards Europeans and his sober
economies when Asiatics were the objects. There
are Chinamen in Sydmy who say he ought to be
ling-chi’d.


THE BULLETIN, SATURD
Off His “Beat”:
THE COOK (loq.): "We don’t want YOU here, .Policeman Blake. This


[?]d Pie Blake.
man and myself can eat all the cold meat on these premises.”


Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs beoause
they oan get those useful artioles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Psrfumbry Co.'s
Btands in the Melbomra* BxhiMtlon. All Melbourne
U on this Scent
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Go., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-Btreet,
Sydney.
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Evebleigh Estate, Perth, West Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans. W .T Douglas, 9fi Bathurst st.. Sydney
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1858.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin ]
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, whioh cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM
W. H. PALING i GO-, W.
«RI GEORGE STREET. two doom ftom F.Og
Society
Bollingen
[?]
There is jubilation in Auckland (-N.Z.)in
jalap and ipecac, circles ; the poultice-makers
shout with glee and all the pestles and mortars
sing together for joy, while the rival sawboneses
smile the dislocated smile of malice and envy -
Dr. Bond, late of the Auckland Hospital, and Miss
Crisp, lady superintendent of the same bower of
bliss, have just been married. The average ijut
would doubtless remark that Miss Crisp has
entered the bonds of matrimony—not being the
average ijut, we forbear. The local paper gushes
over the “ sweet simplicity ”of the affair. Some
of the following particulars are culled from the
journal in question : On
the ' marriage morn the
lady went about her offi-
cial duties as usual, poul-
ticed this patient, blis-
tered that, gracefully ap-
plied a leech here and
the stomach-pump there.
Then she measured the
various boluses. It may
be she was slightly more
profuse with the Epsom
salts and rhubarb mix-
ture than usually, and
that her hand trembled
with generous emotion as
she gurgled out the cod-
liver-oil, otherwise this
heroine evinced no emo-
tion. When she was
through with the diur-
nal pills and plasters
she tripped lightly into
the hospital ambulance,
and was ‘' tooled ” by a
festive grave-digaer to the
mortuary chapel, where
thenursingstaff, in heavy
marching order, and car-
rying bouquets of ca mo -
mile flowers and dande-
lions, together with most
of the undertakers off
duty, bedizened with
funeral wreaths, awaited
her. The lady, unlike
most similarly circum-
stanced heroines, was not
attired in a simple blush-
rose with one priceless
diamond in her hair, but
in a nurse’s uniform. On
her left breast glittered
the Zulu,SoudaD, Turkish
Indian Mutiny, Crimean,
Waterloo, and Siege, of
Saragossa and Poictiers
medals, while the Royal
red cross, the label of
Cockle’s pills, set in
jewels, and other decora-
tions were grouped
loosely around her.
“Colonel” Haultain, a
venerable militia relic,
gave the bride away,
while it took two able-
bodied Anglican psalm-
s miters to perform the
operation and securely fasten the bandages. The
wedding presents were mostly surgical instruments.
Afterthe ceremony thehappypairdroveoff 'inidsta
shower of crushed linseed to witness a delightful
amputation We somehow fail to catch on to the
“simplicity” of this turn-out, but congratulate
Dr. Bond on having snatched an advertisement
both cheap and crisp. Oh !no cards !
In Sydney, the other day, Mr. Capulet-
Jones, who, despite his name, is a first-class civil
engineer and a good soul, went to Wentworth
Courb with a view to taking an office. There was,
he found, only one office vacant, and he thought it
would suit him admirably. He looked to the
right, and saw on a door-plate “Villeneuve
Smith, solicitor.” Then Oapulet-Jones looked to
the lefb, and read on another door-plate, “De
Oourcy Brown, mining agent ” This was too
much. Being a humourist, as well as a civil en-
gineer, Mr. Capulet-Jones incontinently fled, and
took an office far from the haunt of the Montmo-
rencis and Plantagenets.
• * »
Vicomte Jouffray D’Abbans, N.Z. Consul
for France, and who lately fell out with Hon.
George Fisher, N.Z. Minister for Education, is a
perfect master of the subtleties of English as she
are spoked. Recently—desiring to explain to an
American lady, resident at Wellington, that he had
been principally struck when in England with the
enormous calves of the British flunkey, and know-
ing it is bad form to use the word “legs” to the
Yankee maiden —he explained that the “ Domes-
tique Anglais has universally immense little cows
to his latter limbs.”
* * •
Geelong is still the giddy old place that it
was ever so many years ago when a social purity
committee was appointed to sit on the gay doings
of Graham Berry. The present Mayor, Mr.
Humble, who is a teetotaller and doesn’t come
home late o’ nights and wind up his watch with
the hair-brush, gave a banquet to celebrate his
election, at which ginger-pop and lemonade took
the place of Johnny Walker and Pommery Sec;
and when at the end of these hilarious proceedings
His Worship invited the company to meet him at
the Yarraville Wesleyan Church on the following
Sunday morning “and there attend divine service
wibh him,” the aldermen did not seem paralysed
with the invitation but pronounced to go on the
understanding that there should not ba a special
collection. Gee-long!
The Percies and the Howards have fallen
out at Hay, N.S.W., where a gentleman of the
former name possessed of those fine old raiding
propensities which have ever distinguished the
House of Percy, walked into the Howard’s
drapery-store, and, seeing there a pair of pants
just the length of his feudal legs, took possession
of them in the first-class 15bh century fashion
The Howard, who appears to be a prosaic and
degenerate son of a gun, instead of apparelling
him in sheet-iron and throwing gloves at the
Percy’s head and crying “ by my halidame !” and
“ forsooth !” called in a policeman—a common
ordinary “ copper.” And now the Howard has
got his pants back and the Percy has a broad-
arrow quartered on his armorial bearings The
old nobility don’t pan out for much in this beasbly
country.
* •
A change has come o’er the spirit of our
dream. Potts Point no longer talks of “ sassieby.”
It savs “ sow-ciety,” and don’t you forget it.
* * *
The anti-coloured feeling runs high in
Queensland. A smart sassieby woman, driving
down Queen-street on race day, with a kanaka
groom beside her, was jeered and hooted. How
hawid !
* * *
An eccentric “ physician ” known as
“ German Charlie ” has lately been credited with
some wonderful “cures” at Riverstone (NiS,W )
A line of Coaches is advertised to run to his resi-
dence, in whose vicinity numbers of patients are
DISCIPLINE AND DEMOCRACY.
OFFICER : “SAY, SERGEANT, AS SOON AS THE ENEMY [?]E[?]CHES THE BRIDGE, WE WILL OPEN FIRE. THE
DISTANCE TO THERE IS TWO THOUSAND ARDS.”
SERGEANT : “NO SIR, ONE THO SAND”
OFFICER: “HAW, PERHAPS YOU KNOW BETTER!”
SERGEANT : “I SHOULD THINK I DO."
encamped for the purpose of consulting him. His
charges are small, and on a grateful client, whose
case bad hitherto been deemed incurable, handing
him a cheque for £5O, the “ bush doctor,” after
deducting the few shillings which formed his
regular charge, most unprofessionally returned the
balance. He will, it is asserted, only prescribe
for a certain number daily, and an ailing Cabinet
Minister, who condescended to attempt to inter-
view him lately, was somewhat chagrined to find
the consultation postponed till the following day.
. * *
Sir Henry Blake’s son is “ in a bank, ’
and is a great favourite in Brisbane athletic circles.
Philosophers say the greatest pleasure in
life is the pleasure of anticipation. A Sydney
tailor, who has just filed his shovel, says this is
a lie.
# ' *
Dear Bulletin, —On Saturday night, in
Sydney, I was handed a paper entitled “Social
Purity Journal,” from which I quote the following
extract :
Every lawful [sic] means will be adopted to obtain evi-
dence. The Social Purity Society has been censured
because it has employed secret means to do this ; the
course has been forced on us, and we shall not hesitate to
follow it.
Thus it appears that these prying hypocrites in-
tend to continue the practice of boring partition
walls, &c It is not only people of ill-fame who
are endangered, but any honest person who may
chance to fall under the suspicion of one of these
pests is liable to have the privacy of his home
invaded per medium of a gimlet.—Yours, etc,
H.R.
• *
Jean Luie, of Tichborne-case notoriety,
recently sentenced to five years’ imprisonment for
dabbling in the matrimonial agency business, was
recommended to mercy by the jury “ on account
of his grey hairs.” Every day young cockerels
and old fowls are recommended to mercy on ac-
count of youth or age, while for the middle-aged
rooster no one has a word of sympathy.
I » *
The well-advertised Dr. Schwaizbach, of
Sydney, notifies all unmarried short sighted
people that children, both of whose parents areshort-
sighted, will most certainly inherit the defect.
He admits, however, that as love is blind he does
not expect much good to come from the notifi-
cation.
* « *
Sir Daniel Cooper leases all his lands. In
the Point Piper and Woollahra deeds there is a
stringent clause against public-houses; but no
such clause exists in the Waterloo leases.
A recently-deceased magnate, some time a
member of the N.S.W. Assembly, has disinherited
his son for marrying a jjirl who had committed
the crime of serving behind a counter.
• «
The chalk-fiend has been captured writing
up “ Hell ” on one of the gate-posts of Hyde
Park, Sydney. As he now languishes in limbo,
a fall in chalk may be anticipated, while the Devil
will require a new adverbising-agenb. For terms
and other particulars, apply to the editor of the
Protestant Standard.
• •
The advantage of doing anything for an
Australian learned society is beyond price. Some
months ago a well known surveyor accompanied a
patty into the interior of Australia, Before leav-
ing he was asked by an equally well-known Vic-
torian society to collect plants for them, for which
they generously said they would pay. The mis-
sion was faithfully carried out, and the collector
spent many weary hours classifying and drying
specimens, &o. Oa his return he sent them to the
President, who, in reply, thanked him for the
trouble takeD, there being two new species
amongst them, for which he had much pleasure in
handing him one shilling each !
•
One or two of the Sydney newspapers
show strong signs of starting a crusade against
Railway Commissioner Eddy, but judging from
the attitude taken up by Eddy aforesaid it is
tolerably plain that all the newspapers in N.S.W.
won’t break his heart. When M.P.’s call to see
him they have to state their business to his secre-
tary just as though they were common, ordinary
persons not privileged to travel free on Govern-
ment passes, and when they do manage to get an
interview the Commissioner never offers to shake
hands with them—never sees their fists if he can
possibly help it. When a couple of potentates
wearing long-sleeved hats and a cigar apiece
arrive and introduce themselves with what has
always been regarded as the awe inspiring an-
nouncement: “We are Mr. Brown, the member
for Smith’s Curse, and Mr. Jobson, the member
for Doughboy Hollow,” the Commissioner merely
gives a grunt and says he's glad to meet ’em and
what may their business be, please.
• *
New York, we read, has lost its wonderful
chimpanzee, who used to eat with a knife and
fork. That chimpanzee, viewed from the stand-
point of a censorious civilisation, was a long way
behind many of our aldermen. They have ad-
vanced to the stage where people use forks for
ornament and eat with their knives only.
*
“ The controversy on ‘ls Marriage a
Failure?’ is,” says Bishop Moorhouse, “foolish
impropriety, tending clearly to the unsetblement
of reason, the corruption of women and national
chaos.” The Sydney Echo has been publishing
the whole controversy, and it is alleged that since
reading the episcopal announcement above quoted
senior proprietor Fairfax has snorted a good deal,
and that the numerous clergymen on the premises
have sprinkled the dust of despair on their bald
heads.
* • *
Not long ago the office of one of the Mel-
bourne Consuls was broken into and robbed. The
burglar’s spoil consisted of two black-lead pencils,
one of them split and much gnawed at the butb,
a bunch of rusty keys, and four empby square gin
bottles.
Someone has jast figured out the fact that
if Baronet Clarke’s real and personal property
were reduced to pure gold, it would weigh about 20
tons. If William wants any of it reduced we are
perfectly willing to lend a hand.
The Whitechapel murders recall the fact
that the N.S.W. police have never yet been able
to secure the slightest trace of the practical joker
who, some years ago, used to amuse himself by
stabbing women in the groin in some of the most
crowded parts of Sydney. This jocular person
had several good innings at the game (with a year
or so after each innings), and carried Lis knife
out in triumph on each occasion. Apropos, the
champion record-and-iron-safe-breaker, wbo’lately
gob away with the £GOO in cash from the Carring-
ton Ground, had better keep dark, for the foorce
has a clue at last and intend to follow it up, if
necessary, till the Day of Judgment, or, if showery
then* until the day after.
* • •
Mr. “Jack” Want, Q.C., thinks of leaving
again for England. Another yot ?
* * •
Worth makes the man, so says Pope’s song,
And want of worth the fellow. Pope, yeur’e
wrong.
Worth makes the woman, and she, they say,
Makes fellows want when the bills they pay.
—LtFE.
*
Dear Bulletin, —Sir Henry Blake, nomi-
nated to the Governorship of Queensland, was
some 20 years since an Inspector of Police in Ire*
land with a salary of a couple of hundred a year.
He had no family influence to forward his in-
terests, but had the good luck to marry the eldesb
daughter of Bernal Osborne, then a brilliant .wit
and well-known member of the House of Commons.
Although the Semitic Bernal had climbed the
social ladder himself by marrying Lady Osborne,
of Newtown Aimer (?), a wealthy heiress in her
own right, he resented the visits of the poor sub-
inspector, and on returning after an absence
would sneeringly ask,
“If the policeman was
in the house ?” Blake
was an attractive fellow,
with a great deal of
dash, an expert at mes-
merism, and a clever
amateur actor. Miss
Osborne had the choice
of sharing his lob, and
being disinherited. She
married Sub - inspector
Blake, and her younger
sister, the Duchess of St.
Albans, receives a rental
of £BOOO a year, half of
which was the right of
the elder sister. Mrs.
Blake made many sacri-
fices, lived in povei ty
and social ostracism, her
mother’s bitter hate pur-
suing her. Lady Osborne
died about 1880, and in
her will disinherited the
wife of the policeman.
Mrs. Blake again showed
her plu?k by taking for-
cib.e possession of por-
tion of the property,
and, wi r h the aid of a-
pisml and cutlass, drove
ohree caretakers out of
possession. The Duke
and Duchess of St. Al-
bans (Mrs. Blake’s
younger sister) became
ishamed of legal pro-
ceedings which were
taken against her, and a
sum of £5OOO was paid
by the executors of
Lady Osborne to the
fil-treated Mrs. Blake.
A family reconciliation
was arrived at, the
sporting Duke liked the
stern and much-injured,
clever Irishman, and by
rapid strides, Blake be-
came County Inspector,
Stipendiary Magistrate,
and then Divisional
Magistrate. In the days
of their poverty, Blake
and his wife trusted a
good deal to help from the
“Grey Goose Quill,” and
the Irish sketches of the
former are very clever and pleasant reading. The
Duke of St. Albans has considerable political in-
fluence with the Tories and his brother-in-law was
readily advanced to the Governorship of the Ber-
mudas and then of Newfoundland. Mrs. Blake is
very clever and has been of great help to her hus-
band in his gubernatorial duties. —Anon.
» « •
The Indian Masonic Lodges have passed
an ordinance rendering hotelkeepers ineligible for
membership. The proposal of such an ordinance
would be met with riot in the lodges of Australia.


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
Everybody should use Pennell's latest best Snow-whits
Patbnt Rollbr Flour. It is the greatest suoness of the
age.
When next you bake try PemelPs Snow-white Patent
Roller Floor, and your bread will be as white as snow
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this oolumn will at all times be thankfully reoeived and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
Medical Experts.
In the average medical man prejudice and pro-
fessional caste is very strong. He is educated in
this atmosphere, and his associations in after years
but strengthen his early teachings. Yet there
are minds in the profession, active, alert, vigorous,
abreast and ahead of their day and generation,
who refuse to be bound and stand still. If they
cannot cure with their list of preparations they
are willing to try others, albeit they are cf another
school or mayhap no echool at all. If a new
theory for the successful combating of disease is
advanced, or a new preparation for the alleviation
of suffering humanity is discovered, they do not
cry it down because it is new, or because it comes
to them out of the beaten track of precedence.
Scores of reputable physicians, becoming dis-
couraged at the results of their prescriptions in
their own cases and in those of their patients,
have put aside prejudice and used Warner’s Safe
Remedies for the diseases for which they are
recommended with' the most gratifying and per-
manent results. They have freely attested these
facts over their own signatures, and have gladly
given their testimony that for the cure of diseases
of the kidneys, liver and urinary organs, “War-
ner’s Safe Cure ” has marked an epoch in medical
jurisprudence Read the attested facts from men
who have graduated from the best medical colleges
with highest honours, and have made the science
of medicine a life long study.
ROBERT W. STIRLING, L R.C.5.1., the
well-known practitioner of Dunedin, N.Z , writes
under date of June 7th, 1888, “I have in various
instances prescribed “Warner’s Safe Cure’’and
“ Warner’s Safe Pills ” for kidney disease, Bright’s
disease and severe forms of indigestion, and have
seen it attended with most gratifying results.”
R. A. GU> N, M. D., Dean of the United
States Medical College, New York, says:— “I
had everywhere heard of “Warner’s Safe Cure,”
but somewhat hesitated to recommend it—but a
personal friend, whose application for insurance
on his life was rejected on account of Bright’s
disease came to me. A chemical and microscopical
examination of his urine revealed quantities of
albumen and granular tube casts, confirming the
Bright’s Disease After trying all the usual
remedies in vain, I directed him to use “ Warner’s
Safe Cure.” Within four months no tube casts
could be found, and only a trace of albumen ; and
as he expressed it, he felt “ perfectly well.” After
this demonstration of its power, I prescribed it in
full doses in both acute and chronic Bright’s
Disease, with the most satisfactory results. I
find that in Bright’s Disease it seems to act as a
solvent of albumen ; to soothe and heal inflamed
membranes, and wash out epithelial tubes, and to
prevent the destructive metamorphosis of tissue.”
A. E. LEGGETT, M.R.C S.E, of Nelson,
N. /., writing August 6th, 1888, testifies—“A
case that came under my observation affecting a
serious disorganisation of the kidneys, the disease
was kept in abeyance by the application of “War-
ner’s Safe Cure, ” and when deprived of the use
of this medicine, the patient suffered a relapse
proving nearly fatal, but on resumption of this
specific the patient recovered his health.”
C. E. TENNENT, MD, of Auckland. N,Z.,
says, September 22nd, 1888—“ I have prescribed
“ Warner’s Safe Cure ” “in conjunction with
“ Warner’s Safe Pill’s,” in kidney diseases and in
incipient Bright’s disease with very happy results,
and can safely recommend it as an excellent
remedy in all diseases of the bladder, kidney, and
liver, and more especially in senile cases.”
ST. LOUIS, U.S.A.
St Louis is famous for making the best Lager
Beer in the world, so say every one who has tried
it. Beware of frauds and see every cork has the
name of Anheuser on it. The public should ex-
amine every bottle before drinking, The ship-
ments are now on the market and are acknow •
ledged to be the best Lager Beer that has ever
been in Australia. The purest and most whole-
some tonic in the world. Ask for the Anheuser
St. Louis Lager Beer. Take no other.
HWKET HORONIA, the New Perfume. Manu
factured from th West Australian ‘ ‘ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Soli Everywhere. Price, 3s 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st-, East,
MELBOURNE.
[?]
840 Macquarie-street, North, Sydney, Nov. 21, 1888.
Mt Dear Moorabinda,—
On the 15th iost. I hied me to the Y.M.C.A. Hall to see
and hear Mis 3 Adelaide Detchon. The house was crowded
with the usual a-sorted throng always to be seen at shows
held in semi religious halls, The goats wore evening
dress, whilst the sheep were tailor-made and kept their
hats on, making people behind them yearn to make per-
sonal allusions occasionally. Before I went seven youths
and a man with a bald head told me to “ prepare for a
vision,” so I prepared and saved myself a perhaps too ex-
quisite surprise. Miss Detchon is very pretty/ Her hair
is golden and she wears it arranged dla Grecque. Her
gowning, when I saw her, consisted of a yellow cashmere
made in one and draped in graceful olassic folds; for
ornaments—a diamond butterfly on a gold ribbon, a
diamond orcss on a dark ribbon on her breast, and a
diamond bangle—but. goodness ! what does it matter
what she wears ? It is the privilege of beauty like herß to
dress in rabbit-skins and b.ts of old hoop-iron, and yet
“get there” with the regularity of clockwork, isn’t it?
Her entertainment consists of recitations, songs, ard imi-
tations of birds, in which she is ably seconded by Mr.
Bending and Mr. Smith, who contribute instrumental and
vooal mus’c in a way to make one glad Eirirpe grew up.
And apropos of Miss Datchon, people of fixed ideas as
to the laws of contrast have asked me did I not consider
it daring for such a fair-haired girl to don so relentless a
yellow? Certainly not. Ellen Terry frequently turns
out like a canary and she is tow-coloured, yet looks a
vision of delight in the hue. As somebody remarked,
“ Sunlight bicomes every woman—therefore yellow is
every woman’s colour.” And the supposition appears to
be a true one.
A disciple of Brassey, enthusing reoently over “ sick-
nursing,” announces that an indispensable attribute to
success in the invalid tending line is “ a hand of steel in
a glove of velvet.” Quite so. Nurses, especially of the
Betsy Prig class, are renowned for the hand of steal," are
they not ? Speaking of nursing, Florence Nightingale
has paid pretty high for her ministrations to the wounded
during the Crimean war, for I read that “ the long hours
of standing during the hospital work have affected her
spine,” and she is at present an in-patient of a private
hospital.
Now that the dancing season is, or should be, over—for
dances continually crop up all through our blazing
summer—the following little calculation as to the dis-
tance traversed by a girl who dances every item on her
programme may explain to the sassiety damsel, who is
now exhaustedly staggering about on the mountings,
why she should feel as if her boots were a burden, and the
weight of her back hair too grievous to be borne. One
waltz will take a girl six times round a ball-room 80 yards
in circumference, and, as she turns once in each yard,
• that brings the distanoe up to 1440 yards, which means
that eaoh waltz is three-quarters of a mile long ! If 18
waltzes are gyrated through during the evening, the dis-
tance traversed is exaotly 14 miles —and 14 miles “ done
on an ice-cream in an artificial atmosphere, and late at
night, too ! But, there 1 why do I waste mine eloquence ?
Rather than husband her strength and adorn the ball-
room wall for one or two numbers the average girl would
spend the summer in plaster of Paris !
I read that “an old gipsy, who says he can prove his
descent from Pharoah, asks the Austrian Empire to make
him a king.” This is awfully ridiculous. If all descend-
ants of Pharoah were to be made rojal personages we
should have to address the members of every shindycate
as “ Your Higbnesi,” whilst those airy, hapless individuals
one reads about in the evenirg- papers, who pawn the
family frying-pan, would have that familiar article ap-
praised by a personage with a crown on who would put
his sceptre on the counter while he paid over the money !
No, ib would never do to make all Pharaoh's descendants
kings.
Apropos of the Melbourne Cup, I hear that a milliner
in David Jones and Co., Sydney, has landed £5OOO through
the old familiar “ sweep.” When the news reached her
she—fainted ? Not exactly. She laughed at her good
fortune—a novel proceeding among big sweep winners,
isn’t it 1
Ferocious S.M.H. advt. :
WANTED, a Man to kill and boil. T , Parra-
matta-road, Petersham.
However, there is a crumb of comfort for the hapless ap-
plicant for this awful situation. It might have been pro-
posed to boil him first!!
Apropos of “ads.,” a particularly somnolent daily
recently advertised “ a quantity of lead for sale." Tbe
proprietary has, I presume, formulated a heroic resolve
to make a clean sweep of ils accumulated leading articles.
A misguided youth enthuses to me over a surprise party
which happened at Bur wood (Sydney) on the ith, when a
number of high-spirited persons banded together to
knock the dust out of the carpet of a local person who
had never done them any harm. The MA. concludes his
raptures with the satisfactory remark that “the evening
was enjoyed thoroughly by all who took part in it. ’
Nonsense ! I will wager a new hat two people didn t enjoy
themselves thoroughly—the host and hostess. In my
mind's eye, Horatio, I can pioture the awful glare that
illumined those two faoes when your knock was heard on
the lintel. Nobody likes these festive assaults, and some
evening a surprise party will sally forth on its head, and
nobody will enjoy himself thoroughly but the undertaker.
I’iie second vice-regal “ gaiding ” party eventuated at
Government House, Sydney, on the 14th, when the usual
promiscuous throng hustled through the gubernatorial
portals. The weather being rather uncertain very few
fine feathers were flaunted. The attendance ran into a
“several few” as Greville says in the “ Rajah.”
And apropos of the “Rajah/ it wi ' ' ’ ip’t. at
Her Majesty’s on 17th inst., whfn t i - i -*• ■■ r ■
was crowded : snobdom will go and gt.z c u.i u<t .• k n •• 1
if it is only under V.R. patronage. Lady Caingtcn > .i.
a pale-blue satin gown with sleeves and bertha of pale-b'ue
mulled muslin, Buede gloves, a row of pearls fastened by
a magnificent clasp consisting of one large turquoise sur-
rounded by diamonds round her throat, a scarlet artificial
rose held by a diamond bird in her hair, diamond bangles,
a white satin fan with mother-o’-pearl sticks and a cream-
„satin opera cloak. Miss Hamilton wore a black gown cut
low and sleeveless, with one white rose in her hair and
one at her corsage, tan gloves, black gauze fan and gold
bangles. Miss Walenn also wore deeollette black spotted
net, and tan gloves. The Baron, who doesn’t appear to
me to have aged a day since he came out to the kawliney,
wore a white gardenia in his button-hole and didn’t yawn
oftener than he could help, though a paternal manage-
ment had placed a towering basket of roses on the edge
of the vioe-regal box for his Ex. to expire behind occa-
sionally; and the Hon. Rupert, “E.W.,” and two “dis-
tinguished visitors ” (one of whom had a piece of stioking-
plaster on his nose, the indirect result, I presume, of the
Melbourne Cup) formed a bored-looking background.
Miss Adelaide Detohon, in a d.o. box, wore a
decollete gown of a pale tint, without sleeves,
diamond ornaments—-her golden hair dressed, of course,
a la Grecque and a corsage bouquet of whtie
flowers and foliage. Behind the floats there was a great
diversity of dressing. In the first act Miss Kate Bishop
(who I think has somewhat forgotten how to gauge the
theatre with her voice, for she was sometimes inaudible)
wore a gown of Bhot heliotrope silk entraine over a
V-shaped bodice and skirt of white mulled muslin. Miss
Watts-Phillips appeared in a white India muslin frock
made with full sleeves, and a white hat. In the second
act Miss Bishop wore a mauve-pink silk dress looped over
jupe of cream lace, adding, in the third act, a Leghorn
ZERBINI.
hat trimmed with mauve-pink ostrioh feathers, while
Miss Watts-Phillips appeared in both acts in dove-grey,
with Grecian draperies comiogfrom the bodice, and a
drawn grey gauzs hat trimmed with ash-grey ribbon. In
the fourth act Miss Bishop wore a dinner-dress of pale-
pink plush, with a bdw and ends of pink moire ribbon
down the front, and two bows, like pink birds, on each
shoulder, Miss Watts-Phillips wearing a simple white
dinner-gown with V-shaped bodice whioh became her
immensely. And that is all I have to say about the
“ Rajah”—except that two rather amusing fiascos oc-
curred. First, in Act 1, when the Rajah pulled Craigin's
hat off he pulled his wig away too ; and, second, in Act
2, when Richard Jocelyn hauled his coat off, out showered
quite a collection of ladies’ cabinet-portraits. As the
photos, didn’t seem to be required in the action of the
play I suppose they were tributes from love-lorn maidens
laid at the feet of Mr. Walter Hoyte. The girls will be
pleased to know that he carries them about with him any-
how, though perhaps the fact that there were a dozen
will fill them with an irrepressible desire to scratch the
other eleven.
Captain Ogilvy, A.B.C. to Sir Henry Loch, is engaged
to marry Miss Anderson, step-daughter of the Hon. H. J.
Wrixon, Victorian Attorney-General. Captain Stanley,
another A.D.C., is to marry the sister of the lady named.
Captain Ogilvy, by-the-bye, is a person whose oldest
friend has never seen him without what Nellie Farren
would call a “ conservatory ” in his eye.
An hysterical and obviously unmarried female shrieking
in the S.M.H. Women’s Column over the gaudy nom de
plume “ Liberia,” discusses the women of the 19th Cen-
tury. He* sole aim appears to be to warn women that
they were never intended to be married. Says she, “Most
women are under the erroneous impression that they are
borne (sic) to become mothers and housewives. . . . •
All I want to show is what a mistaken idea it is to think
marriage and maternity is the . . . only fulfilment of
woman’s destiny.” Lower down, however, “Liberia’
forgets how she commenced, and, dipping her pen deep
into the ink, quotes the words of Carlyle: “Produce-
even if it be the iminitesimalest particle of an atom—iii
Gol’s name, produce.” Quite so, “ Liberta.” Consult
the first column in the S.M.H., and you will see that a
number of ladies daily carry out Carlyle’s instructions to
the letter.
I have read that the “Melbourne householders have
devise! an assooiation to take the form of a limited
liftbi iry oompauy for the purpose of bringing from
home ” yourg girls of the servant class in sufficient
numbers to supply local requirements. The scheme is
to organise a human aggregation to be registered as
“ The Australian Domestic Servants Supply Assooiation,
Limited,” with a nominal capital of £20,000 in shares of
£1 each. “ The girls would enter into an agreement to
obey all the lawful commands of the Association as well
as those of their masters and mistresses, the latter being
responsible for the passage-money payable in instal-
ments.” Good gracious 1 It reads like Paradise,
doesn’t it ? Fancy a eervant-girl obeying all the
lawful commands of anybody ! But then she
never, never would! Every housewife knows that
a servant bound by an agreement to a place she dislikes
is fifty times more try iDg than Bridget unbound, and then
there is the ordinary contingency that you may not
approve of her, and to oanoel agreements is a fearful
bother. However, I hope the A.D.S.S. Association floats,
for —
We are tired of wild contentions with fearful things in red,
We are tired of being hired, and we want to hire instead ,
We are tired of a slavey who's for evermore in love,
We are tired of girls with bangs the tint of the Golden
Gate above: »
We are tired of taking orders and we want to issue some,
We are tired of giving wages for ttart iwver done ;
Imported help may not do much— but then it cant do
worse
Than the fearful things we cringe to now who oook or
wash or nurse.
Do you know, dear, “ the use of cotton is falling into
disuse amongst first-class dressmakers ?” The new idea,
instead of getting the figure to correspond to one lay
shape, is to individualise each person’s figure into its own
style, whioh strikes your Sappho as being more sensible
than trying to make the figure fit the dress. The only
emergency that oalls for the üße of cotton is this : When
a long, lean, scrawny shape comes to be fitted, a dress-
maker with any conscience at all will take pity on those
poor shoulder-blades which threaten to out their way
through the fabric, and pad with cotton to bring the
middle of the back along the spine out flush with the
awful bones, which, instead of sticking out like the pro-
peller of a screw-steamer, are then mercifully concealed.
There is much excitement in a Southern city over the
1 pement of a clergyman’s daughter. puring her
mother’s absence from home this yout*g ady started for
Melbourne, borrowing the necessary passage-money from
the household “help,” and got united in the bonds
ironically called holy, to a young man who does not fulfil
her parents’ ideal of a son-in-law. Rumour says that the
local police authorities are instituting very tender en-
quiries concerning the bridegroom’s whereabouts, as he
somehow forgot to fettle various accounts, jewellers’,
tailors’, &c., before leaving.
If there is one paper on the face of the earth that
would enjoy being kicked by a monarch and which would
love to see a colonial peerage firmly established, it is the
Sydney D.T. It must “ make believe,” and this is how it
makes believe in a recent article on the housing of Sydney
newsboys:—
Once the old house was a scene of wealth and dignity.
Those unyielding floors were brushed by costly robes and
dented by the sheaths of jewelled swords; cocked hats
were hung in the hall, and sweet nothings whispered on
the landings. Then the neighbourhood went down ; one
of the most charming views of Sydney was given up to
dirt and squalor, and the old house lost caste. The gal-
lants who drove there once in carriages bearing their
family crests and who were proud of the emblazonry as it
flashed in the sunshine continued their visits, but now in
hired cabs, and generally when it was dark at night.
Oh 1! “ Bearing their family crest ” has a fine old-world
flavour about it which makes one almost forget that if
the crests were there they probably consisted of some-
thing like rum.
I have been doing the theatres this week, commencing
with Carrie Swain as Topsy in that old, stupidly lugu-
brious drama, “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” at the Theatre
Royal. In the d.o. one had almost to co-ee to one’s
neighbour, but the other parts of the house were very
full. In a box opposite me was a decidedly *“ see-more ”
costume of black laoe with a spray of white chrysan-
themums. The wearer was a pretty gill, and 1 should
like out of my mature experience to warn her that when
she wears waistbands instead of bodices she should never,
oh never, lean very far forward on the ledge of a box,
because quite a dire effect is then produced and they
make opera-glasses very powerful just now. On the stage
there was but one get-up. As Mrs. St. Clair, Miss
Lucelle spottfed a pale heliotrope silk tea-gown, made
with a Watteau back, front of cream Spanish lace fastened
across the pale heliotrope ribbon. The play itself —
alleged to have been dramatised by Mies Swain—is the
usual “ Uncle Tom ” melange of slaves, religion, rum,
Topsy and Eva ; and, apropos of Eva, Baby Ogden as
that somewhat washed-out cherub is one of the successes
of the lachrymose procession.
A correspondent writing to yours truly from the Rich-
mond Biver, grows almost maudlin over the calm conduct
of a lady whose bustle came off whilst she was on the
wild high Cat a local concert. It seems that, instead of
breaking down and beating a confused exit, she calmly
went on with her warble, and then manoeuvred a graceful
retreat, kicking her bustle behind her !
You may talk of fabled heroines who lived in days of yore,
And faced the storm of battle in fields that swam with
gore,
Yet nobler far that gallant dame who never moved a
inuscle,
But kept on calmly singing with her feet fasb in her
bustle.
A sad storyette has just been related to me about the
doings of a red-haired and freckled Sydney civil-servant
who is a Wesleyan Sunday-school teacher from malice
aforethought. Recently the “gospel-foundry” in which
he is a leading light, broke out into a picnio, the chosen
spot being within walking distance of the lamb’s baok-gate
on a hot and arid paddock. During the day races were
started for the lady teachers, and 17 girls in their best
frocks and tight boots pelted over half a mile of sand
whilst the civil-servant sat in the shade and noted as
umpire, for he was to present the prizes. Well, some
won, of course, when, with a magnificent air, the c.s.
presented the Ist, 2nd, and 3rd girl with—his own photo, 1
Somebody advertised the other day in a daily paper for
“a band used to dipping jam-tins." I think the average
small boy would do the work pretty well, don’t you ?
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Messrß. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of
a large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps-
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the HapsbUrg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The follow-
ing are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The liiost easy and durable Action yet in-
vented, viz , check-lever with front escapement,
lhe parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the bass
Covered with copper only. The vibrations are
reverberated by a sounding board specially secured
against changes (f temperature, imparting a clear,
full, round, delicious singing tone in marked con-
trast to the tin keitly, metallic sounds of inferior
instruments. .*
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double oblique, the
firings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
\tnume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichrrd.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
Oth. 1 hey have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from
the bottom of the case to the extreme top of the
wrest-plank, securely bolted through the latter.
Compound studs sustain the whole with absolute
rigidity. That these precautions are necessary
may be understood frcm the fact that the tension
Of the wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons.
Thus the rapid mutations of our climate are
resisted and tuning is only required at long inter-
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
-Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
a s P ecial safeguard against change. A
Kplit Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg-.
9tb. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge backs
are provided. 15 8
. IGth .- AH interior blocks and bearing are secured
ip their places by screws, which is a great excep-
Won to the usual style of construction.
llth. The whole action is made adjustable and
Interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebonv, with
Or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
. , t\s ■ CIIAR bES S. PACKER
!L»i ant Pia ?* Bt > and . tlle greatest composer Austral
naa known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Tbalben
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world
Slnge . r S,T Mario ’ Grisi, Labiache ; the author i
If® „ Crown of Thorns, ' and many other noble compos
tions, handed us the following:—
“ Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
M J„ ha J e tested the Hapsburg- Pianos, imported b
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, an
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, an
instruments. The tone and finish are a
trehlf w,k e dl The proper balancing of bass wit
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider thei
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introducec
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote •
n«it y * n n 80Umi8l ? S PIA NOS HAPSBURG, de Messiem
Beale et Compagme aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVEf
fe-jSSSJ? ayo,r aussi charmde que surprise de 1
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER™ a un
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES Je lt
rteommandeentoute sincerit l ;. ALICE CHARBONNE'I
dU Conservatolre de Paris, Sydney, $
„ _. CERTIFICATE.
PTAvnQ V f B ? b i ected Messrs. Beale and Co.'s HAPSBUR
to the severest tests, and am greatly surprise
a "f d ?L^ ht . ed their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS an
Jruwr.K. I cordially recommend them.—fSienedl AT.TC
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of tTe Consen" toire ,
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.” aervaroire <
C ; R° b ' nBon > of South Australia, th
°A Unf f rl the - F - iag and other Patriotic songs
HAIsmTTi t p°p 0 T l i f 'vr l f I!,Sle i an ’ exa “ lined and tested th
a “ d S ave h,s unqualified reoom
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaidi
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Palrn ® r > Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland
sHected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano oi
account of its special sweetness.
■ The BRISBANE COURIER.
„ n „ Tbe Plan ° used for the accompaniments and the soloi
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both sir gers am
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
e ,, Plan PU sed on the occasion was a Hapsburg of;
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power. ”
ufru The AUSTRALIAN.'
blended beautifully with the accompani
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru
ments.. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pun
and P° we f ful ' and ‘t B qualities under the thrilling toucl
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.’
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone. ”
AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
.hi« Th TU Q aPBburgr , P ! anos are a]l of excellent workman
•?’ p - Tbe ma " ual throughout is remarkably sensitive tc
tntiwlv f« 0 a ?l th *i vol . um ® is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
„ . , VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
<i vr BlBbo P s : cou rt, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
*f 8 ‘ Ken m°n has much pleasure in saying that she
?wt K° Se k ° have u us , ed the Hapsburg Piano at the
much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
in™ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos. ”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organe
baye , b ®f n 80ld - The best only is the cheapest. The
be autifui design, simple construc-
P atent ludiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive oases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPAEY
Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 George Street, Sydney.
MATTEL WHERE YOU LIVE we will supply you
PAYMENTS ° r ®'* n ’ 0r Harmonium upon EASY TIME
& A 0 R I N 0.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Dfelacltrino <t Co., Cairo, and 21 Cockspur
Street, Condon,
Purv ®y° rs to H.R.H. Dukb or Con-
naught, H.R.H. Princb Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
» ARMY and NAYYI T
CLUB } London
” CLUB ... London
„ CARLTON CLUB ... London
inn i j- and over
- 100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
t! black watch
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
>, COLDSTREAM
GUARDS ...
Windsor
*• royal engineers
>. LIFE GUARDS
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
London
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
■arrerTa rown,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
SAVANNA, MANILLA nd GERMAN CIGARS,
ALSO
<3T Sole Agents for the Cademeno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
'Joors open 7 Performance 7.45: Carriages 10.45
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
And MISS KATE BISHOP
in
THE RAJAH or the COLLIERS’ STRIKE.
a o, Pbiobs, 55., 35., Ss., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibnle from II to 0.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Managsb.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
lessee. Mr. S. Lazar j Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS OE
THE MINER’S DAUGHTER.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23,
FAREWELL COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT TO
MISS CARRIE SWAIN.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s
JgONDIAQ U A R I U M.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is. j Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
POWERFUL COMEDY COMPANY
in
Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN MERIVALE’S
IRRESISTIBLE COMEDY
THE BUTLER. THE BUTLER.
THE BUTLER. THE BUTLER.'
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse. ■ -
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
H
IGH ART PHOTOGRAPHY.
For artistic posing and effective lighting com-
bining softness with brilliancy, the Photographs
of
OHARLEMONT & 00.,
Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Carington
“ By Appointment.”
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
£2O
iO'O Sl'SiUUfp njciiUw
V&
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
| Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Mane JRoze.
THE
Y &
PATENT
Diagoui Stm Corset
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabrio.
Exquisite Model, Perfeots
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N.
_ Corsetstamped ,, Y&NPatenti
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,'' in oval.
Three Gold Medals! I
Bold by all Drapers and Ladies' Outfitters.
s. FREEMAN * SOM,
IMFOBTKBS
AND
MANUFACTURERS,
Siibi'i Eakinr Fswien. Omit Soun Sint.
EGG A CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD A CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELFRAISINQ FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, FE&SIAX SIEEEET,
AO., *O.
STEAM WORKS j
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the best Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable for broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s *• Parrot ” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only lead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all ohemlstß. Bosisto’s “ Parrot ” brand.
TPIREI y ilt.E ! FIRE !
i::ir great sale -53
OF
DAMAGED
Drapery,
Clothing,
Millinery,
. Ac,, die.
DAMAGED BY FIRE AND WATER,
AT
LARCOMBE & CO.’S,
WATERLOO HOUSE,
7S, 77,79 Regent Street, Men, Sydney,
Sale will Commence THURSDAY, November 22.
MAGNETI C OM,
The Great Curative.
WETTON & Co.’s ELECTRIC BELTS and
APPLIANCES for Ladies and Gentle-
men are undoubtedly the best agents for curing
all Nervous Complaints, Rheumatism, Bronchitis,
Paralysis, Loss of Appetite, Sea Sickness, Lassi-
tude, Headaches, and Indigestion. “Magneti-
con ” Appliances are pronounced by thousands to
be the surest cure for all Ladies’ Ailments.
Consultations, or advice, through post, Free.
An experienced Lady in attendance.
Send for Price List :
“ MAGNETICON ” DEPOT, 97 PHILLIP ST.,
Sydney ;and
London and Cheltenham, England.
ALL TRAMS PASS THE DEPOT.
DYMOCK’S GREAT EXHIBITION OF CHRISTMAS
CARDS AND PRESENTATION BOOKS.
Largest and Cheapest Assortment in Australia!
100,000 Volumes of Books, and 70,000 Christmas Cards-
SEND FOR DYMOCK’S MARVELLOUS PACKETS !
BEST VALUE IN THE WORLD!
Grand Assortment for Is., Worth 10s.
The 2/6 is the Amazement of all, Worth 20s.
The 55., Unequelled for beauty and Assortment worth £5.
Itymoch (book arcade), 142 King St., Near Tram.
Carington favours Australian Federation.
Right you are, Baron. Let us have but one
Guv’nor.— Star.
A sow up at Cobargo, N.S.W., has given
birth to a litter of 18, and yet the erection of the
new House of Parliament hangs fire.
A man whose cow won a medal at the
N.S.W. Centennial Agricultural Show was unable
to get the trophy, but he secured the value
thereof by a decision of a local court and the cow
is now happy.
Some particularly smart speculators from
a Southern colony have burnt their fingers over a
big Sydney property. They bought it a little
while ago for something like £85,000 and have now
offered it for under £71,000.
Mountains are rarely jealous of each other,
but they sometimes show a great deal of peak.—
Harper’s Bazaar. Yes, and some of them are
awfully stuck up.— S.F. News-Letter. That’s
just about how we summit up, too.— Bulletin.
The natives of New Guinea murdered a
middle-aged sea-captain the other day, but, find-
ing him to be uneatable, they buried him. If we
are to propitiate the natives of New Guinea, none
but young, succulent missionaries should be sent
there. It is playing it low down on the unsophis-
ticated savage to send him scraggy, nicotine-
soaked sea-dogs who would not even pass muster
in the hash at our boarding-house.
New Zealander, who has settled on a
faraway isle in the Pacific, lately wrote to his
people in Maoriland asking them to secure him
the seeds of some of the finest oranges procurable
as he had decided in the intervals of lotos-eating
to start fruit-growing. His mother attended a big
horticultural show, and, regardless of the hideous
expense, purchased right out, at a fancy price, for
the benefit of poor, dear, lonely, faraway Tommy,
the whole of the prize orange exhibits which they
consigned to the distant Island. When Tommy
opened the consignment he found that his dear
ma, innocent soul! had bought him navel-oranges
—oranges without pips !
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
FULL’ SUITES for DINING ROOM.—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in oanvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
In Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
SIJ
a
RAWING ROOM OABI<
NETS.
Bablt English
OHIPPBITDALB DBSIBHIS,
Nnwiosr lb Lamb,
PIANOFOR iES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makera at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE,
A V«*T Oomfkiii
ABBOBTIMM,
Many quite sew deaigaa.
Niwion & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order In
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful— a speciality. Newton & T.amr.
X>EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb,
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each,
CHEAP FURNITURE.— Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.)
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
■Puma * O'nONNET.T STREETS


Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
FOR NIGHT SWEATS
ol consumption, gives speedy benefit
“Mr Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
/m, and be will suit you to measure from £3 3s.
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi-
man, “ My Tailor," 154 King-street, Newtown.
nARNARVON
CARNARNON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARNON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CABNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
CARNARVON
The name of the Subdivision of the
great LAND SALE at NORTH
SHORE, to take place on the
Ground, on SATURDAY AFTER-
NOON, December 8.
The CARNARVON ESTATE is
situated in the very centre of
NORTH WILLOUGHBY, and is
certainly the choicest part for Villa
and Cottage Residences.
The WILLOUGHBY and GORDON
TRAMWAY will pass the property
within a very short distance of the
Estate.
A SPECIAL FEATURE—The
distance to Carnarvon Estate is less
than that of Burwood and Ashfield
from the Circular Quay.
The TERMS of the SALE to be
unexceptionally easy—£3 deposit,
and the balance extending over 5
years, interest 6 per cent.
G. T CLARKE and CO., Auc-
tioneers, Walker-street, St. Leonards,
and 126 Pitt-street, Sydney, from
whom plans and all other informa-
tion are to be obtained.
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
"I he very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those plaoes,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will be the beginning of a new
era.”—Extract from Governor Broome’s speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PASDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO EACH EOT. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Land. Torrens’ Title
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Mrs. KNOWALL at SIX O’CLOCK AT NIGHT.
cltV „)
ft
mm
mini's
liiaaii
It is no good telling her about the Hows Hows Prepara-
tions, she will have her old way.
“None but the most foolish would ever be without
them.”—Mrs. A. Sandon, Womerah Avenue.
£25 will be given to any lady solving the problem In this
picture and written matter ; also, £lOOO for better com-
pounds than our own (one month allowed).
Americo Persian Starch Polish «V Washing
Cream Co., SYDNEY.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
OF *
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOkERS.
BEWARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE STREET.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Pabbamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and' Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
Min aaa given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brradalbanti
IiUiUUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
ows
1-EMBROCATION
»/
){ xV SOLO }(
'.\EVERXWHERE'i
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthub Gayll.
OT PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED Tt
BY
The Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price - ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBIjRMLS^
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others, Private sitting rooms,
sample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor,
Parsonal Pars.
An ex-commercial traveller is now filling a
Anglican pulpit in a Melbourne suburb. Of course
he has taken orders.
A clergyman received three months’ from
the Richmond (Vic.) magistrates, the other day,
for using intemperate language in a public place.
It is well for the cloth that the pulpit is not a
public place.
Rev. E. C. De Garls, of Sandhurst (Vic.),
has deserted the pulpit with the intention of en-
tering Parliament —and becoming a Minister of
the Crown, no doubt. They never make ministers
of the Gospel C.M.G.s.
Colac (Vic.) Reformer apparently thinks
it has unearthed a new brand of clergyman. It
mentions that a service was conducted by ‘ ‘ the
Rev. Mr. Yeo, a visiting clergyman, and one
having a good reputation.”
A Scottish divine, Principal Cunningham,
recently declared that Scotland groans under the
multitude of her churches, and asserted that if “a
thousand of them were burned down and their
ministers banished for ever it would be a great
Godsend for the country.”
Lecturing on the New Hebrides at
Chalmers Church, Melbourne, a returned mis-
sionary stated that, cannibals though the natives
were, such was their antipathy to the French,
they would not under any circumstances eat a
Frenchman. The lecturer was proudly conscious
of the fact that the natives regarded him as a
very edible morsel, and implied that the French
were incapable of ministering to the wants of
these particular heathens. We know that the
clergy are commanded to feed the lambs, but it is
possible to construe Scripture too literally. A
pastor may be accused of over-zeal who voluntarily
becomes a pasture for those lambs to graze on.
Archdeacon Farrar and the Bishop of
Peterborough complain, we read, that their sermons
are printed without their knowledge or consent.
Thisisinexpressibly sad. The Founder of the Chris-
tian religion was never so shabbily treated by the
publishers of His day, we feel convinced. His
sermons were printed per special arrangement
with Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, who paid
a lump sum down for the copyright, on the under-
standing that they must bring out the Word in
cheap editions. And now we have the Archdeacon
and the Bishop spreading glad tidings against their
will, without making a stiver out of the saved
souls. It’s disgusting, that’s what it is !
San Francisco News-Letter says :
We have sore need of a good, sterling, sersational
preacher in this city. Since we lost the Reverend
Soudder, or rather Boston snaked him away from us, we
have not had a soul who could work up the Christian to
the squealing point, and make him pay his pew-rent in
advance under the penalty of immediate damnation.
This isn’t orthodoxy, but it is very near to abso-
lute truth. It puts things in a business light, and
reveals religion as a system by which a man is
damned to make him pay up If this beastly
candour is objected to by any existing branch of
the church we can only ask that branch to demon-
strate its. sincerity by damning a man who puts
half-a crown in the plate and pays his pew-rent
annually in advance.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —I notice in your
paper a paragraph about an old gentleman who
intends to leave his property for Church purposes
in Scotland. Perhaps you and your readers will
not object to a Scotch fool giving his opmion on
the subject. I think that the Scottish people
(and perhaps all grown-up Europeans) have been
taught a great deal about religion already, and if
a lot of them don’t want to do right now, it is
about time to let them take their chances of going
to the devil (read Titus 3rd and 10th), and Chris-
tians should teach the ignorant heathen millions
instead.—S.F. Teralba, H. and W. Railway,
Nov. 3rd, 1888.
The Christchurch (N.Z.) Cathedral Chapter
appeals to the public for £750 to restore the spire
which was toppled over by the late eaithquake,
while the spire of the Freethought Hall (once a
Lutheran Church) never turned a hair. The
Chapter will get the lucre, though : since the
spire collapsed the gilded youth of Christchurch
have had no place to take their second-best girls
to on rainy evenings. The Chapter charged one
shilling admission to the spire, and the staircase
was always full on wet nights. Apropos, the fact
that the Cathedral spire was wrecked by earth-
quake shocks while no hotels were damaged
should for ever settle that well-debated question,
“ Is there design in nature ? ”
Canon Selwyri, who has taken an active
part in trying to settle the Newcastle coal miners’
strike, comes from a worthy old stock. His
father, the first Bishop of N.Z., was to preach
the opening sermon in a new church in England.
As the Bishop was an eloquent speaker the
wardens took advantage of his popularity to raise
money by selling tickets to the elite of the neigh-
bourhood. When his lordship arrived, he found
the church crowded with rank and fashion, while
the sons of toil were very much outside. He made
no remark, but when the time for the sermon
came he marched down the aisle, threw open the
doors, and with his back to the fashionable con-
gregation, preached to the humble folk outside.
In Maoriland it is impossible to awing any
kind of cat without smiting some variety of
Amen-snorter. Still the saints are not happy.
They have just held at Wellington a “United
Ker-ristian Conference ” to ruminate on the sin-
fulness of things and the scarcity of the unsancti-
fied threepenny. A rev. vessel, one Potter,
opined that the meagre quantity and inferior
quality of family devotion accounted for the de-
pleted condition of the “ treasury of the Loard,”
and suggested that steps should be taken ‘ ‘ to find
out what families omit this important duty.
Since which all the dead-beats and suspected hen-
snatchers plead when before the Binch that they
were “ only mouching round to find out whether
the family neglected its religious dooties, yer
washup.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury is patron
of the English Burial Reform Association, but
while cutting down funeral expenses in some
respects he and his committee heap them up in
others. The cemeteries within his own diocese
were purchased with the ratepayers’ money, but
his Grace has divided them into consecrated and
unconsecrated grounds, and set up a tariff which
is business-like in every particular. A grave for
an adult in the unconsecrated part is 7s. 6d., and
in the consecrated part 13s. Id. ; a child’s grave is
4s. lOd. in the former, and 103. 4d. in the latter;
a brick grave in the former £4 14s. 10d., in the
latter £lO ss. 4d.; iron rails, 2s. 6d. in the former,
and 10s. 6d. in the latter, and so on. The extra
price does not represent the services of the church
or anything beyond the supposed value of the |
consecration. Truly, burial reform is still needed.
A Sydney daily paper, referring to the
sculptured figure representing the Transfiguration
in the reredos of the local St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
says:—
The Saviour’s figure in the new work, on the other
hand, has an appearance of stoutness ; the countenance
is not only uninspired, it is not even intellectual, and ex-
presses nothing unless it be a lumpish indifference. The
hands, too, are coarsely wrought, and beside the pathetio
delicacy of the old design the whole looks rough and un-
finished.
This, after all, is the Christ that is worshipped
nowadays—a Deity fashioned by the hands of
money-grubbing soi-disant Christians, unintel-
lectual and enshrined in lumpish indifference.
Our contemporary’s remark is an unconscious
satire on the God of the money-bag, and it thus
unwittingly casts mud at the Divinity worshipped
by the average church-goer from the bottom of his
sordid little soul.
Jones, the Victorian hangman, wears a
choker.
Many a Civil servant who la personally
tall is officially short.
We beg to call our readers’ attention to the
salvage sale at Larcombe’s, Regent-Street.
The question of a statue to Mr. Dailey
will be considered at a meeting convened for 16th
December by Sir John Robertson.
The most dangerous politician is he whose
emotions circle round the facts that he has a sowl
to be saved and a body to be decorated.
It is announced in a daily paper that Canon
Kemmis “will give readings at the N.S.W. In-
stitution for the Deaf, Dumb and Blind ! ”
Bishop Goe thinks that eventually Aus-
tralian bishops will fill Colonial sees Dr. Gee
goes behind us ; we would not drown them.
Says a Sandhurst (Vic.) paper, speaking of
a woman who was assaulted by her lord : “ The
poor wife turned her head quickly, and received
the blow on h°r nether jaw.” These women know
their sir ng pouts.
THE LATE “DR.” DEUMMOND.
[The above is a portrait of “Dr.” Drummond, who practised as a physician in N.S.W. for
some years under stolen diplomas, and who died at Colombo, Ceylon, immediately after his
arrest for absconding with £6500 belonging to his wife.] The above is from a Photo, by Tuttle & Co.
The Chinese Government have Imposed a
£lO poll-tax on Britishers entering the treaty
ports—this as a retaliation for the Australian poll-
tax.
Under the heading of “ Crack this Nut ”
the Snooze has t an alleged quotation from
Lloyd’s Weekly Dispatch. There is no such
paper in existence.
Somebody in the N.S.W. Upper House
a’ked Premier Parkes to take a drink. “Hi never
drink with hany of my creachaws,” facetiously
replied the Hairy Bismarck.
Miss Essie Jenyns’ fiance, it is under-
stood, is “in the colonial-ale trade.” Great art
thou and mighty, O Tanglefoot! Persuasive and
all-potent art thou. O Sbaggerjuice ! O Sheoak,
we bow down before thee ! —like the rest of the
Press.
Pope Leo is said to be at a loss how to
dispose of one hundred thousand bottles of wine
and thirty thousand pairs of slippers which he
received as Jubilee offerings. He should start a
shoe-shop with a 6d. bar at the back, and have a
convenient side-entrance to the latter for Sunday
trading.
The following is an extract from an ad-
vertisement appearing lately on the front page of
a London daily paper
“ /Company Director ” Supply Company (Limimsd).—
This company has acquired the life interest in
a large number of noblemen and gentlemen, and is
prepared to supply single directors or full boards on
reasonable terms. Apply, &c.
Writes “Hop.” from Melbourne: —“I
looked in at The Bulletin stall at the Exhibition
the other day, and seated at a table poring over a
bound volume of the paper was (of all men in the
world) a parson ! The tempter of souls put it into
my heart to ask him “if he was the gentleman in
charge of The Bulletin exhibit ?” Did you ever
see a reverend gentleman turn sky-bine with in-
dignation? “I’m NOT,” said he—and I could
swear that he added mentally, “Not by a d 4
sight 1” It was Saturday, and he was doubtless
getting up a sermon on “ Pernicious Literature.”
It has been reported in the Victorian
Legislative Council that the warders of the Kew
Lunatic Asylum went in a body to see the Mel-
bourne Cup, and as they couldn’t well leave the
patients loose with no one to look after them, they
took a lot of assorted madmen along to enjoy the
show, and left the rest behind to take their chancer
on general principles.
In the “Domestic Industries” section of the
recent N.S.W. Women’s Industrial Exhibition, of
which Mrs. Carl Fischer was the delegate and her
daughter, Miss Gertrude Fischer, the secretary,
the following special awards were made, amongst
a few others :
Poultry and fish in aspic : Gertrude Fiscber, Itjindwick,
marked by judges, “ Worthy of a prize." Only one entry.
Fish: Second prize, Gertrude Fisoher, bronze medal.
Special prize, given by Mr. Alban J. Riley, M.P., for best
grilled ohop, £1 Is.: Awarded by three judges to Gertrude
Fischer (20). Gold medal, presented by Miss Walker to
the best amateur cook, judged by work in the exhibition
kitchen, by exhibits, and finally by the result of cooking a
dinner for 10 persons (higholass cookery): Gertrude
Fischer, ltandwiok. Lady Darley’s prize for Vienna
Schintzeler, £110s.: Gertrude Fisoher. Lady Darley’s
prize for the amateur oook of the greatest number of
dishes, £1 Is.: Gertrude Fischer. Mrs. Alban J. Riley’s
prize for ices, creams, &c ,£1 Is.: Gertrude Fisoher. Mr.
Alban J. Riley’s prize for best milk puddings, £1 Is.:
Gertrude Fischer. Mrs. Guy’s prize for best scones, £1 Is.:
Gertrude Fischer.
That's the sort of a girl.
A general election looms In Victoria, and
the W. Melbourne voters, being desirous to take
time by the front of the countenance instead of by
the heels, have invited two gentlemen, named
Gunn and Douglas, to contest the district. A
pathetic appeal has been addressed to these per-
sons, in which they are implored to come forward
and save their bleeding country, and, in the
course of this effusion, the admiring constituency
gushes thus
Your qualifications, both politically and socially, are
undoubted, being of that high order of excellence only
obtained by long and practical experience. We are sure
that your presenoe in the Legislative Assembly would add
dignPy ard respectability to that Chamber, and glorify
our “(he'ion of y-u in no sta’l de r<:e. We are positive
that you would legislative with your usual earnestness,
and questions of moment would receive your ablest con-
sideration. Bribery and corruption would be known no
more; larrikinism and personalities would not b 9
tolerated ; defaulters would no longer be posted in the re-
freshment-bars ; reformation would triumph ; and your
inestimable qualities, both as politicians and gentlemen,
would be revered, and your actions in general beyond
criticism.
After reading this we fear that Gunn and Douglas
won’t live long. They are too great and good for
this common, sinful earth, and their certain fate
is to pine suddenly away and join the seraphic
throng.
The only barristers in Sydney now living
and in practice who have sprung from the lower
branch of the profession are Dr. Donovan and
Mr. Scholes.


.Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
tS" EVERY REQUISITE H
AT <s.
PRICES WHICH DEPI COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM
BRAND of
Razors & S cissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
FROM ~
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
FOR
Town and Country Customers,
Note A pdress—
Craig & Aitkeu,
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
S3r Price List Posted on Application.
A man admitted in a Sydney Court of
Justice, the other day, that he had sold his illegiti-
mate grandchild for £l5 to a childless German
couple.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-olasa Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 Gfeorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
&
%
&
%
$
a
X
*3
a
A
S'
m
<b
&
A
Yi
tK
%
D
V
&
S>
V
<s
o
i\
&
v
o
&
&
&
9
*
>o
rfS
&
o
©
O
<< N
X*
v
&
*
,
V
r
£
.o
a
o
390 a GEORGE S T
sTsrioisr :srsr
There are two ex-Civil servants at the Bar
in Sydney - George Reid, who drew £6OO as
Under-Secretary for Justice, and is now making,
say, thrice that amount; and R. E. O'Connor,
M.L.C., who quietly annexed £250 per annum for
doing nothing as an officer of the Legislative
Council. He now clears at least £3OOO.
William’s Australian Inseotlolde Is death to all lnseots.
Simple In applioation—sure In efieot. This Is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perf eotly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
eapeoially, the Inseotioide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemiats and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Blllott Bios.,
and E. Prosser ft Co.*
r
it?
Jx,
ci
O
H*
S
T
O
u
T
,
DEUSSA 8, PHILLIPS
' 3* 5 Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
HO. 78 GLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
I :
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYIM6 OP TEAS.
INDENTS ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES' SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tbs Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FURLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Go..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS
18 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
let* Agents lot the above for New South Wales aid Queeaalasd,
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery
imported Leathers, &o. j and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH
I tJTFBTA V KLAOtTTNO i Tamara' Tooli Materl.la, Tadeatf arsaotsd o. V*Yonr*\»lr Ta»no»
DR. RICHARD,
sa
OM
RO
NSU
CO
D? RICHARDS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollabie temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
q BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist yon materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves-
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney-
off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
<r
Consultation Free,
TO BE DEVELOPED LATER.
“So your old uncle is dead, Charley?”
“Yes, died yesterday.”
“He was a very eccentric old fellow. Do you think he was altogether right in[?]his head?”
“Well —er —I couldn’t say, you know, until the will is read.”


Business Announcements.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
BRUNTO IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Gam bo obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Viotorla.
BYDNEY .„ 84 Pit® Stbmh.
BRISBANE... ... ...Edwabd Stbksb.
MELBOURNE _ Bsbbbv.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success! CONBULT / All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. / l are Curable.
It, H. I. EUGELUANH, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
«0 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call oan write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance. .
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
oomplete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
nS ReacT the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1888
To H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Soience, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to'certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe oough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I oom-
menoed to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the oure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
lnourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
oines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
dootors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex.
your advertisement . ,
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you oould guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT. Witness-J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tar All Consultations Free. "M
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is inourred in the event of Curb
hot being Effected.
a umiiiv Him!
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolobeux, Aching Fains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why enffet those exoruoiatlng Fains when oni
bottle of
DB. SOUTHAM’S RHKUMATIC FILLS
will give Instant Belief and Cure In a few days t
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and IBs.
CUBE FOB BLIQHT,
BOSS’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION,
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Byea. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Plight!, but strengthens the Bight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its.agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I, L EOSS, Pharmaceutical Ohemlit,
SSI Qeorize-street, only.
WANTED, Files of Thb Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Q-13 .A. IT ID t HOTEL,
OOBNBB OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
Bw'SU
COSCKOVC
VmM\
cflfeiiri'M
{'(flift;
f
j.
SsC
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
Do COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’B Hotel) ... Proprietress.
THE
“ Pi UM
Razor.
THE
“PLUM"
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for nse. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosl Haircutting Saloon,
KST Nine Haircutters always Employed ! IS*
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch A Sound and Beliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BEHADFROMALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
W erdriau «§& C#o. 5
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washebs, Gaskets, &c., &o. Moulded to any Blze. Rubber goods for all purpoau
Lists and Samplos on Application.
&PERRIW
/# consequent* of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Leaand /Watf
have to request that Purchasers S& that the Lahti Sb_cm*y Mi
hears their Signature thus**
without |trhick 90 bottle of the original WOECE9 TEESffiLRMt
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask fot LEA and PERRIES Sauce, and set Name on Wrapper, Label, BattU mM
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester ;. Crosse ami
bias kite 11, London , &c.,&C. J and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World
* CkM Iu«fo Oobxp & OdC
"Wla-a-t is yoiar HoloTo3r'?
M
fe
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keep a
bad one. If you have a
taste 1 for Art : if you
want a -remunerative
hobby—try
Photography !
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it—every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you.
. \ : y
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE w PHOTOGRAPHIC WAREHOUSES.
i-.y
LICHTNER & CO.,
24 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ .Buildings, Albert Street, BRISBANE.
tr Send 2d, Stamp for our Illustrated Instruction Book and Catal&srue, " THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER."
Assurance Companies.
THB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCK and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, IT Vic,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ~ 51,909,091
Paid-up and Subscribed ... 589,098
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy.
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at tho following
rates of interest
For 8 years 7 per cent. I For 1 year 6 per oenl.
For 8 months * per cent. | For 8 months— 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the oorporate seal
Of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotion and
Private Contract.
Hiad OHIO!— 10, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Aet, 1871.
CAPITAL, £500,010.
Sydney Offioe,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STRBBTB,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DBPOBITB i
8 months, 5 per oent.
® ,! ® M
19 i, 7 H
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1£ per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
COMPANY, limited.
Capita! £600,000.
Sydtej Dices: Corner of Met 1 York Streets.
Accident , Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents , Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commeroial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS reoeived at 12 months, 7 per oent.; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 6 per oent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Direotors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Basinet* Announcements.
W I BAJA AUSTRALIAN
niltt 4 Christmas Card Series,
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THE MOST AUTISTIC SERIES PUBLISHED.
H. King, Photographer, 316 George St., Sydney,
BETWEEN G.P.O. AND HUNTER STREETS.
TATTERSALL’B
xoxsm coxmTATioxs
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Buiabtiet Offioe.


Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December,
. 1888, from persona willing to contract for the erection of two gates, 8 chains post and rai
fencing, 3 miles 12 chains fencing of posts and 4 wires, and attaching wire netting to about 3 miles
20 chains fencing—between a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales
and South Australia, near a mile post marked “131,” and a point on the said boundary line
about 20 chains north of a mile post marked “134.”
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to Messrs. George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers,
Currie-street, Adelaide; and the Mining Registrar, Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-
proof Fencing, Section 6.”
'i JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the erection of one gate, 4 chains post and rail
fencing, 43 miles 40 chains fencing of posts and 3 wires, repairing 32 miles of existing fences, and
attaching wire-netting to about 75 miles 40 chains fencing—between a point on the boundary line
dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South Australia, near a mile post marked “183,”
and a point on the Baid boundary line about 40 chains north of a mile post marked “ 258.”
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia; Messrs.
George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide: and the Mining Registrar,
Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed, “ Tender for Rabbit-
proof Fencing, Section 7.”
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December,
. 1888, from persons willing to contract for the erection of two gates, 8 chains post and rail
fencing, 26 miles fencing of posts and 3 wires, repairing 5 miles 40 chains of existing fences, removing
1 mile 60 chains old fencing of posts and 3 wires, and attaching wire-netting to about 31 miles 40
chains fencing,—between a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and
South Australia, about 40 chains north of a mile-post marked “ 258,” and the 290th-mile post on the
said boundary line.
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia; Messrs.
George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide; and the Mining Registrar, Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit
proof Fencing, Section 8."
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December
1888, from persons willing to contract for the erection of three gates, 12 chains post and rai.
fencing, 25 miles 20 chains fencing of posts and 3 wires, altering, repairing, &c., 30 miles of existing
fences, and attaching wire-netting to about 55 miles 20 chains fencing,—between the 290th-mile post on
theboundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South Australia, and the south-west
corner of the Colony of Queensland.
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia ; Messrs.
George Ferguson and Co , Unity Chambers, Curry-street, Adelaide ; and the Mining Registrar,
Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-proof
Fencing, Section 9.”
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS Sr FACTORY
®ILLIARt (QUSHIONSg &0. 8 MADE ON THE PREMISES,
3ld Sables re-fitted by our own men,
«fIIM,ODES,IAIiBte Btock t also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS » MWU,
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
§ HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
Proprietor.
FIKSX-CIjASS
Wines, French Liquors & Savanna Cigars a Speciality £ Sense. Cuisine Francaise,
TisJj&xM JulKtj i-'JiiARLS
cW5a end sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, »Snealthy action of the gvme, and fieli*t®=
(My fragrant breath can beet be obtatafi by dissareiag snmnf tooth gowtes nm -vrjsStsr
C®fi taring dally
ftowlanck>
n Oaonto
Djntlfriee, a white powder composed.of the most recherche Ingredients of the Oriental!
warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; lit whitens and preservon
™ teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the rums, and give* ©
ftleMing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise £>
'highly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes mi
it***®* possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as © ram* ©»sl
tootft powder: such BOWJuANM’ ODOOTOJm* )jp?W W!»
Ho other’'Odomto fis
A®WUBD$* MACASSAS
(Ms’ end golden-heired people end cMHrau
2s as*? osSfi fta a goSfisa ®bBw 8®
ROWLANDS' KALYDOR b»«ttC<e ffii® soaqj>tadon,ai«dlMte«
d._-3 ,V> nVH- fT*rr*.b dVsJJffleSs. smyTrWF*
-M.o' dfnwM- ,;,..<Vi9»aDI >Sfi *-€j3k»*o te*«O«BSHQ-
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros,, and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
2?a.jfte©3a.’s % Grape t Salixxe.
TRADE MARK—“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from RIPE FRUIT , and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor:
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., t' QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PERSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
OHIKCn HILL, SYHNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
rpHIS Magnificent Hotel is now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Fore'gn and - Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J, ROWAN, Manager.
mm
mf*.
iffli
-'i'i
Telegraphic and other communications to he addressed to the Manager,
Cla-rera.d.on Hotel, 2v£anl3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchd
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
AT THE CORPORATION BATHS.
Since a paragraph appeared in one of the papers to the effect that Mrs. Langtry
was taking cold baths as a preventive against a tendency to corpulence, several of our
citizens are regularly taking a morning dip at what are appropriately termed the
Corporation Baths.
After killing the late Captain Ancel the
natives of New Guinea report that the old salt
was not fit to eat. They are terrible back-biters,
these Papuans.
“ Warfare does not stalk abroad amongst
us claiming its myriad victims,” says the Argus.
True ; but wharf-air does. Go to Circular Quay,
Sydney, for instance.
A youngster fell down a shaft at Golden
Gully (Vic.), the other day, and when a rope was
lowered to him he fastened it round his neck and
was hauled up all serene. Hanging comes quite
natural to young Australians.
A Melbourne milkman has been fined for
neglecting to have a water-meter attached to an
extra tap on his premises. Milkmen can’t afford
to pay for water by measure these hard times.
A hon. member created a slight breeze in
the Victorian House the other night, because a
baker had been appointed to some position in the
Civil Service, “for which he is wholly unsuited.”
The M.P is out again—a loafer will find himself
quite at home under Government, and a baker is
quite inured to the most onerous duty of the Civil
servant—waiting for a rise.
The only profit, so far, out of one of the
best-advertised N.S.W. silver-mines has been ob-
tained by selling water out of the shafts at so
much a gallon.
Kent Chew, a Chinaman, was sulibeated
by fumes in a room in Little Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne, a week or so back. It is said to be a case
of sewer side. Kent chew see ?
The Orange Grand Ledge of Victoria has
voted £5O to the Times, “to assist it in its at-
tempt to prove the charges against Mr. Parnell.”
Not to procure justice, you’ll observe, but to
squelch Parnell by hook or by crook.
Lord Carnarvon, according to a late cable,
has written in the Times that, “with regard to
the Governorship of Queensland, the telegrams
which have passed on both sides show that a
hard political problem is involved, but there is
abundant room for an adjustment of the dispute.
In a matter like this they must look to the good
sense of the Government and of those who are
truly the Queen’s servants in Australia.” Tor
“ Queen’s servants ” read flunkeys. Who are the
“Queen’s servants” in Australia? Why, every
man, save M’llwraith, who has a title. Every
snob who prowls round Government ’Ouse. Every
man whose wife wishes to become “Lady Smith.’>


Hotels.
Centennial Hotel,
SOOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Gold, and Showeb-Bathb on each Flat.
BILLIARDS! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel Is now opened, and admitted to'be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It Is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
jwdldlngs. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
“Otters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
Tl/roUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS
iyj.— LAND.
Under the distinguished patronage of His-Ex-
Jollency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-Btorey buildings. From
J*o balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
wo celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
Wnutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
mall coaches daily from Rockhampton and
Hlbra railway-stations. W. MONCRTON, Pro-
Motor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
MOUNT MORGAN.
taaansland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
la now ready for the reception of visitors.
Rvery comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
Mr Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiseb, Proprietress.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
Railway Tebminus, Sfenokb Street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
find all modern improvements, Buch as light,
*°”F, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large publio-
*POcq, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
•olephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
Mng nailed for early morning trainß. Letters
**d telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.*
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
***ween Gsorge and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr;
le a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
***V*rd College, U.S. (lor confirmation Bee New Zealand
***ette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
***ette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
!•**» to the study ol CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SOCIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
rjwltals of the United States, which enables him to treat
iff complaints with excellent results. All applying to
Will reoeive his honest opinion of their complaints.
®*perimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
ijjositive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
s?®®* His reason for doing so is this —when there is no
gtfcnio disease, and nothing but .an inorganio trouble, or,
rather words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
result, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
g! Ve d with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
Wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
Perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
J 1 claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
BSjbUghly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SOCIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
' ' ‘ their troubles in
J[s?j*|ng at a distance can, by
r**»il be treated at home. 1
oe treated at home.’ the course of treatment will
Sr? any way interfere with their business. Examina-
g® *nd advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
ST* , A, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
T?*ets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
to 12 a.m. ; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
**°U*.m. only.
PHISCmiPTIONB are to
■ '■■ be found In the “ LIGHT AND
for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DEJ
and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of
J** 8 book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
*** Cq Pb. Address—
8. WARD & 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
COLEMANE&SONS
Eucalypte Ojiri a
iM
Victory O intments
*HE tree of life.
Battues* Announcements
SKATE BOJ-lEKS.
mURKEY BOXWOOD, gu ranteed the best in the Am eri-
J- can market, at the following low prices :
14 in. Boxwood, in not less than 10.000 lots .. $l5 per lot
2 in „ „ 10 000 „ .. $l7 ~ ,
1J in „ 50,000 „ .. $l2 „
2 in. ~ „ 50,000 „ .. $l4 „
Through rate to Australia about $1 50c. per 1000 rollers.
Address-
JOHN T. lO«G,
182 & 184 S. CUrk-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
LAST WEEK! LAST WEEK!
HATS. HATS. HATS.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
20 per cent. DISCOUNT for one month ONLY.
Our noted Guinea Silk flats at 17s.
Our noted Halt-guinea Felts at Bs. 6d.
Straws, 3s. 6d , 4s. 6d. and ss. 6d. at 2s. 9d., 3s.
6d., and 4s. 6d.
Pullover Cork Helmets, 12s. 6d at 10s. 6d.
__
MORLEY’S BEST HOSIERY at cost price.
UMBRELLAS, &c., at cost.
C F. FRIDDY and Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
LAST WEEK ! LAST WEEK!
rjpo FARMERS, AND
£60,000 to Lond.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
atreet, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, HYGIENIC
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
fold* Send your full address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners in
the street.
u
V®\I*TCASTLE*SOuy
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
VPOSTERS OFAUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And ati ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
onYAMttk A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
'P '
highest Decree of merit
Bass*
ov
ISTHE BEST INIHLWORLDI!
NONE OTtfgß BUT
WAUC H S
rtECEiVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
p r 1 z f. m i a A u
Manufactured byJamesChaiwoii
H A a e O v AJ!*ilO» KJ
Sold by AH Croctnj^i!»«l*tt««
ffa«ina«« * nnoanoement*,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
s
m
PILLS
&
&
&
S?
V*
©
Are MiiTenMdly ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorder* such as
W md and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
did Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
S< urvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
Bensationo, Ac. The first dose will giro relief
in twenty minutes. .
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box Of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invariable,
M a few doses ol them carry off all humours* and
■bring about all that is required. No female should
’d# without them. There is no Medicine to be found
•quel to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of 'all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
an ensured by their use.
Tor a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Diver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organa in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largett Sal* of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheesing, A c., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
an the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short lime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Be tail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2a. fld. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Sealers everywhere.
NJB. —Full directions are given vrith each box.
mun BANK or NEW ZEALAND,
JL Sydney Branches s
II PITT STREET, and 688 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... ... ... 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United Statee of Amerloa and
nan offer special facilities for dealing
la Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts Issued and Bills oc'looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIh Acting Manager.
IPS
. o** ..
B
OIENCK CONQUERS DISEASKJ
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
vm 41 according to the Laws of Nature and the
im 11 , Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobs MERCURY ob othkb Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr.* iT. C. WRIGHT.
M.B„ Ch. M., &C.,
"•EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds, the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”!
fiB, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Net*
roue Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections. H> -
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affeotions, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the Bystem. It matters not what your
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
years that the Dr. understands your oase.
’.CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Bufierers can be treated equally well at a dlstanee.
■ h. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not claim
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
I Ji.im only to be a skilled and successful Phyelolaa
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
PIOBSSSSIVE mm IX3TITUTB,
63, Fundbbs Btbbqbt W., Mslbocbnb.
gar Mo tonneetien with any other Medical Institute In
* Australia. Box S6B, G.F.C
w
office.
ANTED, Files of Thb Bulletin Cor the
last nine yean. Publisher, Buixwrni
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout
FIRST
QUALITY.
*/>£>
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
V. BalcMn, Johnston & Oo„
Cemmercial Chamberi, Bond-Street, IffiHß
Robert butcher as oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine aal
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out* at
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
t. STEPHENSON
HAS OH BALM —
WINK CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VAl||
RUM, SHERRY, ft; WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fcO.
COOPERAGE,
88V KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STRESS,
Between King and Market Street*.
***** ttoamah* Md WUikort. ufoh on—
«****»*«*.
fip v d c *eor* fdlaeir did thU
und i trill do it on either bald I
/«*6 l or har* fact Force*
heavy Mouatacn* in from 9 to
4 week* and never fail* 210.000
vaunt) men already w*av full
DtanU, having umd 1 u 3 pkte Vs injury, aaMy applied, oertak.
in iffktt. Packntt, Is. 8d <m*k i/or in, 8d. pott paid, rrnt under
Mwrr,Snefr<rm obtrrvanot. !?>•«■& Sen*!**, Ssl*
ft a »
OwvrifMeA
WALDBK, Tent, Tarpaulin, OilaMn.lIalM*?
19 100 PITT 8TRBBT.
UMBRg LLAS
«£<OVER£O.
STUDY ECOStmm
»»<*
Hu® your Umbrella KnaMh O
errrered. and your
Parasols re-Unnd and i
to Hew,
J. StJLLIVAMr%
Ml George Suw|
Brickfield Hill, betarwM*
Liverpool and Bathurst StVNto
Parasols uiade to tuauA M*
tumes Repairs neatly «,juaMM4,
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Piotubh and Moptmua
• Btokk, 899 George-atreet (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts out with real
Special attention paid Sohool Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited. (
ATKINSON’S >1
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
all others forte lasting and natural
' fragrance.
Three Gou. Msdals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA,IBB4,
tor pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson's celebrated
EAtT DE COLOGNE.
u unequalled for Its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name,
ATKINSON’S OLD GROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
Others tor cleansing and softening the skm.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
0/ all He alert, and of the Manufacturer!—
J & E ATKINSON,
14, Oi® Bond Street, Boh non
Trade Mark—" White Koee" on" Golden
Lyre." .


BEHAN’S
Blcucfc Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
SB, CATTLE t DOSS.
Will male* Hall Grow trn Oldest Sean.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED aa a Dreutnf for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORB BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and aa an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepare* Bair Bp
J. Behan & Go., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wmokmalb:
Elliott Broa., Australian Draff Co., S. Hoffnnnff
and Co., J. Brash, Son aad Co., W. H. Slropaon
and Son, SB3 Georffe Street, and Batter roe.,
Wynyard Square, STDtnrr j Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbubamb j E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lena, Melbourne.
J. BEHAI, TA, » flit Street, Icdfen.
PRICE m. It. 6d. Ftr BotiU.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlees aad Storekeepers.
a blessiho m imr family.
HOLLOWAY’B FILM AMD OINTMENT.
Thera is not a country in the aflvilsed world where
the healing rirtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of enfferers. In ell the ordinary
tilments of humanity their benefleient action is at once
recognised. Fullest direotioaa are supplied for their uee
in every disease. IF TOD SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at T 8 Nsir OrrosD sr., London. KT Pur-
chasers should look to ths Label on toe Boxes and Pota.
if the address Is not SM Oxford-street; London, they are
ipurioua.
IMPOBTKR OF
WINHS, ST* I HITS, BB»'R8 &CJ„, &>0» 1
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson's Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. tt *, im-ivi lie's, Roe's, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell's and Sazerac s Brand (5. 10. 5, and 21 years old.)
TM Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P R.L.
JW The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes cgr All B and* of Colonial Wines
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout arriv., g by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
WMesa e and Single Bottle Departments, 782 ai d 784 neorge Street, Sydney.
SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LACIES' REFRESHMENT SOON and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AWD
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST. FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
A. BOWMAN’S '
[LONDON MAD*
HIDE L BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30a.1t0 21b.
IMS PITTISTm SYDNEY (Near Tatter*aU'»d
-
Porpoise "Hide Wears Twice
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTEDIALL OVER LONDOft
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL
S LONDON FASHIONS} 1
AND
Fresh Groods Every Eortnig^'
MASON BROTHRB^
*63 to*269’ksNT ST®***'
ifwnri.
Have always in too*
to the Trade and
Buyers Only>
IRONMONGERY
GENERAL* HARD****’
GLASS, CHINA,
BARTH EJ* W > *
WINES, BEERS * S?** 15 *
BUL^MKMHAND I®*’ 1 ®*’
JOHN WALKER^^ 01 **
Old Hignland Whl*W’
GO*
J.
SORIN awp
Cognac-
J. T. GAY**'®,
Schnapps and G®®
A. MELVIN AW»
Edinburgh Pal®
TTsT" IE3"Q.I.I.©xcL., G-ooxg*© S“tx©©“t 9 33 T> xx^y 1 *
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIOS.
BABB PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT TH»
BEWINS MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
V I C T O R I jflL.
MELBOURNE m Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
f , M New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
„ M 59 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
Tayfoffi
HIGHLY NUTRITfve
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB BACKETS THiOUBHOUT TNI
G-. F- FICSTLiIES <sc SOIfTS, Carriage BiaUd.©* 0 '
THB MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS HIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Rapoattary i
Metropolitan Manotaetory i
B, 7,8, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST, REIBOU 11
32, 84, 38 BRUMSWICK STREET, PITZRO Y>
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY
XTEW TABLE. -TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY
PAID beina RETURNED «n ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the
SURPLUS. OT Branch** in all th* Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
9LM
UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE WHOL^^fA 1
Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL PAR*
Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Dani*h Herbalist. Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Cukh fob Nebvous Dkbiutt and
Dssa&aas. It gives special advice to all kind of offerers. Address
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
167 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK. SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL &
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brash and Bell Founders.
Finish***, Plumbers, GAsriTTEHs, Ship A General Smiths, Abt 8c Mkduetal
Boiler Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
tif* a
0°
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo ******
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every <*•*
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose » ,«»A^
Wt ACCOR® ITOKIU, E >M%sul« Placet Sydney, aad Stauinore
