

nphlet, containing Photo. Views of this Property, sent Post Free.
to any Address by
D & KING, Auctioneers
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
MOORBANK
FARMS.


Business Announcements.
P
sjsia
5255
rnrr^-
yCoiirtvSm
7 . *»*
falAClt
fieriNffis
VP.
b£a9 jr/ten factory, f branch. Sconce SI Sydney
OOLLINS-PLAGE, OOLLINS-STRKBT EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Urnfort to Visitors, Cnlsine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 613
MRS. M. OOLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
TO
£
S 3
3?
SIR ROGER
56
a
2*
I&
LIMITED,
268 to 269 ’Kent-street,
Sydney,
Sara always In STOCK flor
SALK to the TRADE ?and
WHOLESALES
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY,fand '
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHS N*|W [S,
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and BOMS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J, SORIN and CO.'B
Cognac,
J. T. GAYENB
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ai MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ala,
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN*
The beet known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
WEURALGtfA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &0.,
end taken Internally cures DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all. other
Internal aches and pains.
sold everywlejrp
11 tiOIHJON, sou ramroft.
.ftOOfillE AND BYDNEY;
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
•dice.
Business Announcements.
PATENT DIRECT ACTING
MB FIPS,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Over Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by the West inf; house Brake
Company (Limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
T> M. R I LEY
(late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Abioonderi and wife denerters traced, and all kind! ol
confidential inqulriei instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
teuton and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, end established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully ana
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his oare,
Cgrg PRESCRIPTIONS are to
■ HI Safa bs found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, fee. A oopy of this
book will be sent Free, Bealed, for Six Fenny
Stamps. Address—
S. WARD «c CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
is:
« CAN
B.
RECOMMEND
EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK,
ffrenoh and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
MILLAR, CARTER AND CO.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
A SOVEREIGN" REUSE?
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Dolobeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 6a., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ROBE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street, only,.
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
HI
Darts’ Dartag UL&aMaa, IsDastas Yaiat, iDaa Dartwra. l
KI.KCTRO-PIiA.TKD WARS, CDTtROT, TOOTS,
1 GAS COOKING STOVES i—LKONIS FLETCHER'S. JKANB Sc WALKER'S,
1 BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., Ico,
rwii
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISR» n
OUSE’S FLUID MIMES&
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the S®
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of B IS
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
tioP®
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OT|j
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, <jtc„ accompanying tack bo
TAKE ONLY KRUSj^'
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d* eao^'
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT
jtf
GiticurS
aI
fficisms on Sc»'ij»,.
A POSITIVE SURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
ft \
\\\ S )P
r
PIMPLES to
imBS-IGUEISf© HUMORS, Humiliating Krup-
iXP tions, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
SsOathsomc Sore*, end every specie* of Itching,
(iagly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
BMe Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Stas* of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
©oticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Oaternally, and Outiouba and Outiouba Soap, the
Skin Cure* and Beautifler*, externally.
StcMng and Burning? Skin Disease*,
Baker*’, Barber*', Grocer*’, Washerwoman’* Itch,
28#hlns Pile*, and Delicate Irritation* peculiar
8® both aexea, instantly relieved by a warm bath
Mth Outiouba Soap and a single application of
©STIOUBA, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
(Sally, with three dose* of Outiouba Resolvent,
Will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Baalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
i A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, i* wrapped about the Re-
QOLVEnt. Also, one hundred Testimonial*, *ol-
OMnly *wom to before the British Consul, which
irapeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
S»r year* from Disease* of the Skin and Blood;
Slave been obliged to shun public places by reason
«f my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
mo relief until I used the Cutiouba Remedies,
Which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
aa pure as a child’s. Bend for our sixty-four page
Ittk, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consignees,
IK. Towns ft Co., New South Wales.
CUTIOTRA RESOLVES
ffler, Diuretic, and Aperient* ag<L«
and Pewplration of aUWh"fsA 0
Element*, and thu* remove* . e
it cure* speedily, permanently*
tnrfflV
Chutlcura,, tins G-bkas? SKiSf C .flay o t{o a set :
Jelly for external use), instantly I g c9 lp® KiP f
Inflammation, clears the Skin an
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys V “- 0 g yv
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discb» J®gjlß» -✓'A
•tore* the Hair, and *utifie*
Outlctura Soap., an C^jjakW
and Toilet Requisite, prepared F
indispensable in treating Skin al -j,
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly e9 gy
burn, and Bough, Chapped, or »
Cntlcnra Remedies »r® i ? e . e
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers 1 c jn* v '; t v
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any oth®* teed. ,
table poison whatsoever. wu f at , gi w
pure by the Analytical Che® 10
Massachusetts,,
——V. 9 „o
Fox Sale by all retail c £^j4si» lll fe e Vic
druggists throughout Australia. 1 j f-
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents pej ctJ&LfP'
sl.'oo ] Cuticura Soap, 25 tents
XN6 Soap, 16 cent*! CUTictf®*
per bottle.
Pbjipabib * t ¥
Potter Drug * Chemical tl °"
FALLON'S GEORGE HOTEL,
rjiHE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and oth^'ije
JL spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his speoial study.
Vv v ' T> First-class Tables. 1,6
Hall. Private Sitting Booms without extra charge,
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXES.
J. J. FALLON,
prop


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 442.
SATURDAY, JULY 21, 1888.
Price, 6d.
“Jim” White: A Sporting Sketch.


The Bulletin
Hie National Australian Newspaper
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
Limited,
\
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO
Half-yearly ... 0 12
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with tvhom we do not wish
to interfere.
ihtJftaUetca.
SATURDAY, JULY 21, 1888.
The Gaoler’s Image.
Speaking on the question of the erection of
statues to public men, The Bulletin ven-
tured to lay it down last week as an incon-
trovertible axiom that—
“To erect a statue to any man is a seriom public re-
sponsibility. A tablet or a bust in a church or hall or
private building is an unimportant matter, but a statue
or a column in the open places of the city charges the
popular sentiment of the general public with a sense of
responsibility for the man so commemorated. There can
be no greater piece of public impertinence than for a he le-
and-corner committee to take upon itself to express th
public sentiment in public monuments without giving
that sentiment an opportunity of declaring itself cn the
subject.”
The ink in which these words were printec
had scarcely time to dry before the public
sentiment of Australia was shocked and dis-
gusted by the publication of the following
item in the Sydney daily papers. The
reference is to a deputation headed by Sir
Alfred Stephen, which waited on the Pre-
mier on Friday :
“ Sir Henry Parses, on receiving the deputation
said he understood that the deputation were in favour of
the erection of a statue to the memory of Governor
Phillip. Without waiting for any remarks upon the sub-
ject, he might say at once that the Government intended
to invite Parliament to erect a statue. That had been
decided upon for the last 12 months. It was their inten-
tion to erect a colossal statue in the Centennial Park.”
For monstrous impudence, and a brutal slap in
the face to the growing nationhood of young
Australia, this gross outrage on the public
sentiment goes far beyond anything of the
sort that even Sir Henry Parkes has
hitherto had the temerity to offer. Let us
see what this thing is that Sir Alfred
Stephen and Sir Henry Parkis deliberately
propose to do.
• •
A little more than a hundred years ago,
when pregnant women were hanged in
England for petty theft and white-faced
wretches were gibbetted in rows for stealing
bread—when women were flogged in Bride-
well, and prisoners were found by Howard
in the Bishop of Ely’s gaol, “chained down
to the floor on their backs, with iron-spiked
collars on their necks and a heavy iron bar
on their legs”—the Lords Commissioners of
His Majesty’s Treasury decided to found a
hell upon earth of the scum of humanity at
Botany Bay. The gaols were swept of their
contents, and its victims snatched from the
gallows and the very jaws of a felon’s death,
to be packed away in ships to the uttermost
ends of the world, there to increase and
multiply after their feculent fashion. To
lead them forth it was necessary to
find someone with a not too nice
sense of delicacy, who would not
be too particular about the service he went
on, or the duties on which he might be em-
ployed. The choice of the authorities hap-
pened to fall on Captain Arthur Phillip.
It might be supposed that the qualification
for such a post was not high, and that any-
one might be selected to fill it. But this
was not so. Lord Howe entered an objec-
tion when Phillip’s name was suggested for
the post of the first gaoler of the new con-
vict settlement. “I cannot say,” he sa
“ that the little knowledge I have of Capta
Phillip would have led me to select him
a service of this complicated nature.” ]
got his commission, however, and the
weirdly wonderful Argonauts set sa
Arthur Phillip was the man who led the
outcasts of civilisation to Australia as the
iirst convict gaoler. Pie is the direct pe
sonification and embodiment of the fel
blot on the country. And this is the man
whom Sir Alfred Stephen asfcs the peop
of New South Wales to erect a statue !
* * *
Australian history, written by fraudule
hands, has yet to some extent told us t
truth about Governor Piiillip. His fir
act was to imprint on the charter of this ne
land the impression in gules of that blood
hand of penal legislation of which the r
mark to-day is almost as red as ever. P
was not six weeks on the shore of Sydm
Cove before he brutally hanged a hungr;
boy who had stolen some bread from tl
store. This lad was barely 17 years of ag
But Pudge-Advocate Collins, who was tl
first judicial authority of the colony anc
Phillip’s personal friend and apologis
has left us a record of Phillip’s rul
The story told in Cohins’ history is suffi
cient to fix on Phillip the infamy of havin
sowed the seed of that system that wa
afterwards to grow to such rankly luxuriai
fruition under his lieutenants, Hunter anc
King. One instance is given cf a man wh
complained that the record of his convictic
had not been sent with him to Botany Bay
and that he was compelled to work as a con
vict for a longer term than that of his sen
tence. His case was one of many. Thi
extract from Collins shows how the human
Governor dealt with this kind of difficulty :
“On<3 of these people having, io the presence of h
Excellency, expressed himself disrespectfully of th
Lieutenant-Governor, he was brought before the Crimina;
Court acd tried for the same, of wh’ch offence beir
round guilty he was sentenced to receive six iiundrk
lashes, acd to wear irons for the space of six months.”
In another instance the chaplain detected
convict in the act of stealing potatoes from
his garden. This vegetarian received 30
lashes and was chained for six montls to tw
ether wights who had pilfered from Phillip’
own garden. A soldier who filched some
thing from the Governor’s garden got 50 1
lashes. A man who was suffering from
scuiwy was sentenced to receive 1000 lashes
but his physical condition was too low to
admit of the sentence being carried out; h
therefore received his lashes in instalments
whenever he had sufficiently recovered fron
one hogging to be able to endure another
But these pages of Collins’ history o
Governor Phillip’s rule are nothing but one
continuous record of hangings, floggings
and starvation from bad management
If the thousands of lashes inflicted by
Phillip’s orders on the miserable outcasts
he ruled had fallen on his own shoulders, he
would have been cut into as many pieces as
if he had been hoisted by a dynamite explo
lf the boat in which he was to cross
the Styx had been loaded with the shades o:
those who had been hanged by his order, the
vessel would have foundered long before ole
Charon reached the other side. He inau-
gurated a bloody rule that lasted right down
the gaol-corridor of our early history, and
which reddens and reeks in the penal code of
to-day. This is the man to whose memory
Sir Henry Parke,s has promised on behalf
of the people of New South Wales to erect a
colossal statue !
* * *
If there js the faintest spark of healthy
public spirit in the people of New South
Wales the public opinion of the country
will summarily denounce and protest against
the infliction of this gross indignity—this
wanton falsification of the popular sentiment,
and insult to the truest and most natural
feeling of the growing Australian race. If
that statue of Phillip be raised it will fix
u P on the people of Australia an indelible
character of infamy that will never be got
rid of as long as the impudent libel may stand.
Its very existence from day to day will be a
hissing brand of shame in' the flesh
of every individual unit in the community.
For that colossal statue of our first gaoler-
governor will stand to remind us and our
visitors and our children’s children, from day
to day, that we are still ridden by the curse
of convictism and the spirit of the gaoler’s
authority in high places—that we are un-
worthy of the free institutions which were
introduced more that 30 years ago to wipe
out every trace cf the old gyves-and-gibbet
rule, and that we had better go back at once
to the felon institutions and the convict-
system that we are preparing to so affec-
tionately commemorate, and resign the right
of self-government and the manhood suf-
frage, the free Press, and the trial by jury
that the statueless Bland and Wardell
j ought so hard to obtain, and of which we
are about to prove ourselves so miserably
and contemptibly unworthy. For it must
be remembered that this proposed statue of
Phillip has a public significance, or none.
Ihere can be nothing colourless about this
proposal to do imperishable honour to our
gaoler governor, who first riveted the felon’s
fetters on Australia’s limbs. Of old, men
raised statues to heroes and demi-gods. We
build up monuments to gaolers.
• .
The issue put before public opinion in this
proposal for its solemn adjudication is a
straightforward and plain one. It excludes
all question of the Imperial connection, for
it appeals alike to the patriotism of Austra-
lians and the honour of Englishmen. The
issue is one that concerns that healthy
national sentiment which looks forward into
the fair future of Australia, desiring to see it
unfettered by adverse conditions in the race
of progress and untrammelled by any malign
traditions of infamy and disgrace. It con-
cerns, on the other side, that surviving spirit
of old convictism against the unrelenting op-
position of which every privilege we now
enjoy had to be fought for to the bitter end,
and which still exists amongst us with its
head turned always back to the days of the
gibbet and the triangles, the New South
Wales Corps, and the bloody era of Botany
Bay. From week to week for many months
past the instructive story of these red-
handed days has been told without exaggera-
tion or extenuation in the columns of Tiie
Bulletin, and it is not necessary that we
should repeat or recapitulate anything here.
No country in the world has ever been
cursed with such a degrading histoiy as ours.
The sun never shone on a scene where the
daily life of generations was lived out under
such appalling circumstances of legalised
horror as that presented by Botany Bay in
the first 50 or (50 years of its dismal history.
It reeks of blood that calls for the judgment
of posterity and of history as imperiously as
that of Abel called aloud to Heaven for
vengeance. We who live in Australia under
liberal institutions, and who are making the
most promising portion of its history from
day to day, were not consulted when
Governor Phillip first blackened our
national character with the felon brand. But
we are called on to-day to ratify or denounce
that action—to build a statue to the
myrmidon chosen to carry out that act of
sacrilege, or to reject the proposal with
something more worthy of the occasion than
mere derision and scorn.
Who are the men who propose this statue
to Phillip ? Sir Alfred Stephen is the
surviving representative of the old convict-
system of the colony. He held an official
post, and was trained and formed under the
Imperial regime. He does not see things
with the clear bright eyes of Young Aus-
tralia. His vision is distorted by a mental
strabismus contracted in youth, for which he
is not responsible. And who is the man
who has given the people’s consent in ad-
vance to this disgraceful and degrading pro-
posal i Sir Henry Parkes was an immi-
grant from Birmingham at a time when the
old officialism was yet strong—a pseudo-
Australian politician who learnt his trade
from no other models than those nominee
legislators whose proceedings he watched
with reverence and awe from a respectful
distance, 40 years ago. He is a man who has
gone back on the Chartism of his early
manhood, and sold the young Democracy
which chose him for its leader into the hands
of the successors of the official classes of the
Imperial system. This man, who should
have nothing in sympathy with the past of
Australian history, has actually committed
the country as far as he can do so to an act
which will give the lie direct to 'every
national aspiration and every principle of
Australian Democratic progress.
* * •
Governor Phillip will probably get his
colossal statue. In the absence of an active
public spirit or a hfalthy public opinion this
insult and affront to the community will, in
all probability, be consummated. Twelve
months ago, we are told by Premier Parkes
in a tine spirit of haughty indifference, he
decided to erect that statue in the Centen-
nial Park he has laid out, and in the neigh-
bourhood of that State House which has
somehow or other, certainly not before any
intelligent expression of popular opinion,
fallen away into forgetfulness. He has not
thought it worth his while to consult popular
opinion on the subject of the proposed
statue. A hole-and-corner committee of
men who represent nothing of Australia but
the most dismal chapter of its miserable
past, has encouraged him by its approval to
make public his cowardly conspiracy against
the Australian national sentiment—his plot
to bastardise and blackguardise that sen-
timent in the face of the whole
of the Australian Continent, and of
the world. This proposal to erect
a statue to the first gaoler of convicts in
Australia is an experiment which is about to
be tried on the people of this country. If
they consent to such an outrage, and allow
their representatives in the Legislature to
become aiders and abettors in this domestic
treason, it will be a conclusive sign that all
public spirit is dead and non-existent, and
that all we have heard about the national
sentiment is but an empty form of idiot
words. Have the young men and rvomen of
Australia nothing to say on this national
subject Have the men and women from
other lands, having nothing in common with
the first (50 years of Australian history, no
protest to make against this projected libel on
their adopted country ? If they have, the time
to make it is now. Before it be too late the
people at large should express a decided
opinion one way or the other, as to whether
this statue of Phillip should be erected to
perpetuate a disgraceful memory or not.
Such a proposal would be made in no other
country in the world but this. In no other
land under heaven would the rulers dare to
act in the name of the whole people of the
country in such a matter without giving the
public voice an opportunity of making itself
heard. The Bulletin challenges Sir Henry
Parkes to test the public feeling of the
country on this question of a statue to a
convict-gaoler. We dare him to put a. plain
and straightforward issue before the people
—a statue or no statue, the past or the future,
the convict-brand or the national Australian
sentiment. We invite him to put before the
people of the Australian colonies at large—
for this is not a matter that concerns
New South Wales alone—the simple
and distinct question as to whether he is to
ask the Governor who hanged four boys
two years ago after a trial which was
a mockery and a farce, to unveil the
statue of the gaoler-Governor who first
introduced the system whose traditions
were followed in the Mount Rennie case
by Governor Carington. We challenge Sir
Henry Parke,s to put that issue before the
people ere he goes on with his nefarious
scheme. And-although the cast from which
the proposed statue is to be made now
actually stands in the artist’s studio in
Sydney, showing that all the preliminary
steps m this gross political conspiracy have
been already taken—if there be an atom of
honest and natural spirit or spark of national
sentiment among the people, The Bueletin
dares Sir Henry Parkes to stand up before
a public meeting—a meeting neither over-
awed by batons and bayonets, nor cajoled
by the presence of a pretty woman in even-
ing dress—and publicly take his answer.
Some Eye-Openers.
The Sydney dailies have lately had a deal to sa
about the New South Wales Defence Forces anc
the special Parliamentary granb of £46,000 jus
passed for military purposes. One day the daili
aforesaid, who seem to know very little about th
real state of affairs, bestow upon the forces of tl
colony, officers a,nd privates alike, the most absurc
and fulsome praise ; next week they inconsistent]
denounce them as “painted soldiers,” who on
waste the people’s money. We propose here se
ting down a few facts just to show people the tru
value of the New South Wales Defence Forces
at present constituted.
* * *
The New South Wales “ Army ” staff is well o
the road to become, like Mark Twain’s Sout
American Army, a multitude of officers commanc
ing one private, and if Mark Twain’s heroes wer
as noisy and overbearing as their New Sout
Wales brethren-in-arms, what a bad time tha
private must have had ! There is a pcmanei
staff of 83 officers for a total, of all ranks, of 6,4 S
men, which total includes 3,138 reserves, of whic
a very small percentage are efficient. But unde
the new estimates the number of staff officers is t
be very materially increased.
® * •
The New South Wales Permanent Artillery i
tarred with the same brush. Though numbering
ranks, only 370, it possesses 14 commissioner
officers, or one to every 27 non-commissionec
officers and men ! A glance at the ranks held by
these officers, too, will surprise the uninitiated
There are two colonels, two lieutenant-colonels
two majors, three captains, and five subalterns
They toil not, neither do they sjnn ” (excepting
improbable yarns about real or imaginary amours)
‘ yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like
one of these.” The surprise that one feels at so
large a number of officers being necessary for the
government of so small a body of men is no
allayed by a glance at their previous occupations
Only one had had any previous experience in
artillery, two belonged to the Royal Marines, one
was in the Dragoon Guards, and two were in
British Infantry Regiments. Although with the
exception of the first-named these men coulc
hardly be considered fit to officer an artillery
force, they would be esteemed quite competem
and desirable when contrasted with certain of the
others —of whom one was previously a clerk in
brewery, another a clerk in a tobacco-factory,
and the others bank and Government clerks.
* * *
Nor, with regard to previous experience, is the
staff any better off. Of the few who had pre-
viously worn uniform, some were trained in the
Royal Navy, and others, having resigned lieuten-
ancies in British Infantry Regiments little known,
had come out here to engage in civil occupations,
until they found a friend in power who kindly
pitchforked them into a good position in the unfor-
tunate New South Wales Defence Force.
Throughout the force the decided opinion is that
there are far too many officers on the general staff,
and that most of them are as incompetent as they
are arrogant, which is saying a great deal. On a
field day they gallop aimlessly all over the field,
and orders are repeatedly given, only to be counter-
manded before sufficient time has been allowed for
their execution.
* * *
But it is said that henceforth New South Wales
is to have a new and better order of things. The
forces are to be re-organised. Even the authori-
ties do not seem to know exactly how far the
changes are to go, beyond the fact that there are
to be three new ma jors. Two of them are to be ap-
pointed in connection with the proposed mounted
infantry force, and are to be ex-cavalry officers.
The appointment of cavalry officers to organise
and command mounted infantry will simply per-
petuate the Lancer nuisance. Potts Point has it
that the Permanent Artillery is to lose its four
colonels, one of whom is to resign, and the other
three are to be superannuated, but are to be
solaced with police-magistrateships! The “good
Government ” will appoint men to administer the
laws whose sole qualifications consist in their
being too old, incompetent, or gouty to act as
officers of a military force whose chief duties are
to furnish sentries at Government House and keep
a few alleged forts clean !
* * *
If the Government carry out their announced
determination of following the recommendations
made by Major-General iSchaw, a great many old
volunteer officers will have to go. This their
sergeants and men will regret, as they will sadly
miss the easy familiarity with which these officers
salute them, and their cheery inquiries after “the
old woman and the kids.” It is said in defence of
these ancient warriors that if they were competent
to pass the prescribed examination they have a
perfect right to the positions they hold. But
what farces those examinations were! Those
held now are far more difficult than the ones set ten
years ago, yet even now they are ridiculously easy.
A subaltern on joining is allowed twelve months
to pass his first examination, and it is no more
difficult than that which a corporal has to pass to
take the rank of sergeant. Officers should be con-
stantly examined, to see that they have kept pace
with the changes that take place every few months
and then they should be examined practically as well
as theoretically. At present the examinations are
written only, open to two serious abuses, viz. :
that many men whilst able to recite with ease


whole pages learnt from a book (nay, even to write
a book themselves) in applying that knowledge
utterly fail, and that those who don’t know copy
from those who do, and thus it very rarely
happens that a candidate is plucked. But officers
(and this applies more forcibly to the permanent
than to the volunteer) are not at all blamed for
not passing their examinations, and when vacan-
cies occur they are duly promoted to higher rank
whether they have passed or failed! “ He’s a
good sort ot fellow, and a friend of the .
Give him a leg up.”
• • •
But, again, many of the officers (the young men
especially), conscious of their shortcomings, are
anxious to obtain instruction, but no means are
open to them. True, there are classes in the differ-
ent regiments for what is facetiously termed
“ catechetical instruction, ” which consists of the
Adjutant asking questions from a drill-book. The
idea of his giving a lecture to explain the terms
used in the book never occurs to him. These
“ catechetical instruction ” glasses are simply time
wasted. The class proper lasts about three
quarters of an hour, and the adjourned meeting
(held in the nearest public-house which boasts a
cosy parlour) fully an hour, so that about 10
o’clock the catechised wend their several ways
homewards in a perfectly amiable frame of mind.
* * •
A glimpse at one of these classes is quite re-
freshing. The young one 3 appear with some
attempt to look smart and soldierly, the “ old
school ” turn up in most remarkable apparel,
generally of extraordinarily large check pattern,
with clay ‘ ‘ nose-burners, ” and polluting the air
with breaths strongly suggestive of rum and
onions. They freely admit that what they are
most anxious about is the pay they receive. This
they jealously guard, and not a penny do they
ever offer to encourage rifle shooting or cleanliness
in their companies. So far fro'm it, indeed, that
they compete against their men for the club shoot-
ing prizes, and these “officers and gentlemen”
actually accept money prizes of 55., and then
wonder why their men do not look up to them.
# # *
A story which is going the rounds just now will
serve to show what sort of men some of these
officers are. A meeting of the officers of an in-
fantry regiment was hold a short time ago to de-
cide whether it was desirable to procure mess-
dress. The old men, of course, opposed it on
account of expense, and one, hailing from the
Band o’ Cakes, put forward, as an additional ob
jection, that if he wore mess-dress he would have
to assume a white shirt, and he had not had one
on for 20 years !
• * *
The Torpedo Corps has [of late come in
large amount of criticism, nor is it to be wondered
at. The disclosures brought to light by the recent
commission of enquiry show that the most gross
mismanagement has prevailed in connection with
that corps for years past. This is not a matter of
marvel, either, for whilst care is taken that the
men selected should be thoroughly suitable for
the work they are intended to do, not
a single one of the officers is a trained
scientific man, although a few of them
gravely arrogate unto themselves the title of
scientific because they are telegraph - opera-
tors and so on! The authorities could easily
officer this force with suitable men, but the same
spirit prompts them to appoint duffers as induced
them to send in command of the light infantry
portion of the much-vaunted Soudan Contingent an
artillery officer, and to put at the head of the Pay
Department a gentleman who could not be ex-
pected to know aught of figures, he having been
brought up all his life amid pipe-clay and buttons.
* * *
Premier Pakkes, in his speech on the Estimates
the other night, declared that in future the right
men were to be put into the right places, and for
a start a man has been appointed Sfrgeant-Major
Instructor of Musketry, who, although highly
esteemed by all who know him for his many ex-
cellent qualities, is by no means a recognised
authority on musketry; and as he cannot shoot
well himself it is not quite clear how he is going
to teach others.
• * *
Much might be said about the Reserves,
and especially about that pride and joy of the
barmaids and nurse-girls, the Sydney Lancers.
An incident which occurred in connection with
the last Queen’s Birthday Review will give
the reader a fair idea of how things are man-
aged there. The members of that plutocratic
corps did not want to attend the parade, as races
were on at Randwick, so a circular was sent to
the members imploring them to attend, and wind-
ing up with the intelligence that “to allow gentle-
men time to attend the races after the review,
the latter would be held an hour earlier than
usual —namely, at 11 instead of 12.” This was
done, and the gentlemen referred to graciously
condescended to appear at the Review, and thus
the honour of the colony w£s saved.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Press Impartiality.
Mr. Gaunson, in unsuccessfully proposing a reso-
lution last week for the establishment of a Vic-
torian daily Hansard of the Queensland pattern,
attacked the Melbourne Press for not reporting
him. Mr. Gaunson, an Australian native, than
Vttiom no keener debater or more outspoken man
ever sat in a colonial legislature, has for years
been consistently boycotted, misrepresented, and
vilified by the Melbourne daily Press, amongst
which, since the Symes “ turned dog ” on their
old-time principles, there is now no paper of truly
Radical sympathies. Mr. Gaunson’s Parliamen-
tary career has been a most honourable one; in
point of ability, eloquence, and persistent devotion
to the cause of the masses he has, unhappily, few if
any prototypes in the other Australian assemblies.
Nor has he any rival in the art of saying the awk-
ward thing at the right time. Neither New
South Wales nor Victoria has a daily Hansard,
but each has a weekly official report of the
Parliamentary debates, and it is the curse of
politics in both colonies that the electors, instead
of diligently studying the Hansard account of
what takes place in Parliament, persist in attach-
ing credence to the reports given by the daily
newspapers, which reports, with hardly an excep-
tion, are and ever have been false, malicious, and
garbled to suit party purposes. Instances are
quite common in Australian daily newspaper
offices—the man who writes this is one who knows
—of the reporting staff being told, by the fat pro-
prietor or boss, to always “cut down So-and-so,”
to “never let So-and-so’s name appear in our
paper if you can help it,” to always report Smith
in the phrase “after some remarks by the hon. mem-
ber for Brown’s Water hole”—and so on. We have
known a reporter to be led aside by his owner with:
“You’ve to go up-country with the Minister for
, and are to attack him on every point.”
Then, a few months later, the order was, “Yo
are to go up-country with ” (a frienc
of the newspaper - proprietor, who couldn’
write or speak three consecutive words of decen
English any more than the newspaper-proprieto
could himself, but who had, nevertheless, bee
pitchforked into a Ministry) “ an’ mind you r
port ’im fully, and at once send down anythin
’e wants to appear.” Then, one day when it wa
stated that certain maunderings of the Honou
able So-and-So had not been fully reported in th
paper, the order was, “ Sack ’im !” (the reporter
Such are the interior workings of a not inconside
able section of the Australian Press, which, i
scores of cases, is merely used as a means o:
glorifying the proprietors and their relative
even unto the third and fourth generation back
wards and forwards, and of advancing by direc
and indirect means of puffing and suppression a
the commercial and other jobs of the brood wh
have their fingers in the pie. As for the countr
press—Heaven help it! In at least one colony
writes with a bill of sale over its body and sou
pinned on its chest all the time. To the Austra
lian elector Thk Bulletin says : Read Hansard
If you do, and are possessed of any intelligence
when next election comes you will, fifty chance
to one, throw out your member with such violenc
that you will fracture his political skull.
♦
The Encumbrance of Worldly As»et».
One of the murky problems of Australian financ
rises before us once more in the columns of Th
Australasian
“ The prosperous condition of Victoria is testified to b
the revenue returns. On Saturday the accounts for th
financial year were closed, and they show an excess of re
ceipts over estimate of £650,000, while the total receipt
amount to £7,607,000. All departments are buoyant, anc
there is a sufficient increase in the payments by selectors
to show that farming is not depressed in every distriol
Mr. Gillies may choose either to increase the expend:
ture to get rid of the surplus, or remit taxation. Th
latter, as has often been pointed out, is the safer course.
Possibly we have not given to the subject of pub
lie finance all the attention it deserves, and - con
sequently we may be unnecessarily impressed b;
these few dull lines of solemn; small print. Bu"
still the anxiety of our Melbourne contemporar;
to find out how the colony is to disencumber itsel
of its assets reads like wooden-headedness of the
first magnitude. In times that are past one or two
Australian colonies have been blessed with
series of surpluses, though none have enjoyec
such good fortune in this respect as Vic
toria; and in almost every instance the finan
ciers of the State have successfully got ric
of the accumulation by remitting taxation, anc
having thus relieved themselves of a troublesome
responsibility they have raised another big loan
with a light heart, and have pushed forward pub
lie works with patriotic energy. Then, when bac
times followed, more big loans and more publi
works ensued, for loans and public works are in
stitutions which go on for ever. The colonie
borrow when times are good, because they can
afford to build new railways and bridges every
where and anywhere; and they borrow when
times are bad because they must build rail
ways and bridges somewhere, whether they can
afford to do so or not, in order to furnish employ
ment for hundreds of starving voters. No Aus
tralian Treasurer, apparently, ever dreams o
ceasing borrowing, unless when the credit of his
colony has sunk so low that any further financing
becomes impossible; and no Treasurer, under
any circumstances whatever, dreams of
systematic attempt to reduce the burden o
national indebtedness. If Mr. Gillies wishes to
make a new departure and to lay the foundations
of a fresh era of solvency—to quote the burning
language of Seth Pecksniff’s advertisement foi
a pupil and boarder—“a favourable opportunity
now offers.” The proposed attempt to “get ric
of the surplus ” merely signifies that a determinec
effort is to be made to dissipate the assets which
will be badly wanted in some future period of de
pression, and to replace them with borrowee
money, the interest of which may weigh heavily
on Victoria in a coming era of poverty and u mis
fortune. For complex insanity this scheme stands
absolutely alone. Any ordinary exercise of reason
would suggest rather the abolition of future
borrowing and a resolute effort to construct al
future public works out of current revenue. If a
time should come when the country has no further
reproductive works on hand even then there is
no urgent need to “get rid of the surplus” until the
\ ictorian debt has been completely extinguished,
evenastheAmericannationaldebthas been brought
down to zero. The example set by the bankrupt
nations of Europe has apparently inspired the
financiers of this continent with a conviction that
a nation must be ballasted with debt to save it
from an inevitable capsize—that avast burden ol
foreign liability is the natural and reasonable con-
dition of a State, and that any attempt to abolish
this condition is an inverting of Providence
and an insult to the science of political
economy. It is time, and more than time, that
this venerable superstition were exploded. Debt
is no more the natural condition of a nation than
a diseased liver is of an individual, and the
modern system of finance is as unreasonable and
unhealthy as wooden legs. But the motto of the
average colonial statesman is always the same—
“ Things will last my time” is the text of his
policy, and when things fail to last his time he
leaves to his successor a big insolvency schedule
and a powerful reason for raising some more loans,
while another political failure goes “ Home ” to
become a representative Australian and a Knight
of the noble order of St. Drinkall and St.
Gorge.
*
Co-operation v. land Nationalisation.
Dear Bulletin, —Please allow me to state the
case for Co-operation in reply to Mr. Farrell’s
letter on the above Subject. Some of Henry
George’s disciples (Mr. Farrell, apparently,
among the number) seem to suppose that when
they have said Land Nationalisation they have
said everything ; that this one project covers all
the evils that exist, or can exist, in this world.
Now, Ido not believe this. I think there are
many things that the land question would have
very little effect on, and I deny that the adoption
of Henry George’s theory means the millennium.
First, let me explain what I mean by Land
Nationalisation. So far as I understand him,
Henry George advocates simply a tax on land.
Such a tax would not go far enough, for it
would still allow landlordism to exist. A
capitalist could secure a large piece of
land, pay the tax, and then let it out
to tenants just as at present. If we want to do
away with landlords we must go further than this
and confiscate all rent, that is, allow no one to re-
ceive money for land except the State. While
allowing all the good such a law must do, I claim
thaij there would still be evils left to deal with.
Besides Land Nationalisation we must have Co-
operation. The first result of a Land Bill such as
I have mentioned above would be to send enor-
mous numbers of people on to the land, and
they would be forced to the land as at pre-
sent by two things, Competition of Capitalists,
and Invention of Machinery. The competi-
tion of capitalists and invention of labour-
saving machinery both mean reduction of wages
to the workman. He is forced to one of two
things, starvation or living on the land. Now, I
maintain that it is impossible for a civilised man
to live by his own labour on the land. He cannot
supply all his needs himself, nor is it advisable
that he should. He must depend on his fellows
for some things, and this means that he
must produce not onjy enough from the
land for his own needs but some for sale or
exchange. When we see the powerful induce-
ments for men to settle on the land it is easy to
see that it must lead to overproduction. If we
acted logically, when we found we had too much
produce we should stop growing so much, but in-
stead of this being done the course taken is pre-
cisely the opposite. A man who gets a certain
sum of money for a quantity of corn would, if the
price were lowered by over-production, naturally
reason that in order to get the same amount of
money he must grow more corn. So that, strange
as it appears, over-production leads to greater
production. If this state of things continued we
should soon find that instead of living comfortably
on the land the people would barely have enough
to pay the small rent demanded by the State.
Now, this is all the effect of competition, and in
order to remedy it one thing remains to be done-
kill competition. This is where co-operation steps
in. In fact, co-operation is the extension of the
principle of nationalisation to capital. Land
Nationalisation abolishes competition in land, co-
operation abolishes competition in wages. One
does away with monopoly of the earth, the other
with monopoly of wealth, the produce of the
earth. One gets rid of the landlord, the other of
the capitalist. Understand, we do not want to
abolish capital any more than the nationaliser
seeks to abolish land. It is the monopoly of either
we fight against.—Yours truly, Cockney.
-
CliaiJr!
A Speaker’s life is not a happy one. His duties
are monotonous and irritating, and demand not
only unremitting attention, but the possession of
“high personal qualities.” He nrast be familiar
with Parliamentary law and practice, calm in
judgment, prompt, decisive, determined, wholly
unbiassed, and owner of great tact and discrimina-
tion. In fact a man may possess the major part
of these qualities and yet be disqualified for
office by his utter lack of one that is thoroughly
essential. Thus it is that the right man is rarely
to be found in the chair, and that even Mr.
Young’s warmest supporters in the New
South Wales Assembly at the most
faintly uphold him by saying that he is
improving and better qualified for the posi-i
tion than any newcomer. This may be'
doubted. His laboriously attained knowledge of
Parliamentary procedure is of little use, when his
lamentable want of tact is taken into considera-
tion. Indeed, it is probable that one with half
his technical knowledge and a fair share of
“gumption” would fill the office more satisfac-
torily. As for the charges of favouritism and
tyrannical interference, these are more easily
made than disproved, and will continue to be
made until the Speaker becomes simply an officer
of the House, wholly oblivious of the claims of
party, utterly unconcerned as to who is “in” or
“ out.” At present the Speaker is perforce a mem-
ber of the House, elected at the opening of each ses-
sion by the members to his dignified position. This
is an outcome of the days when the Speaker was a
nominee of the Sovereign, and in his hands an
agent for corruption and bribery and an instru-
ment of obstruction. Thus it became necessary m the
interests of free discussion, Parliamentary purity,
and usefulness that the Speaker should be chosen
from among their own ranks, and not as heretofore
by the monarch. Therefore, the people are doomed
—because of the sins of royalty and the spirit of
routine—to endure a disorderly House, much of
whose disorder is due to a widely spread dissatis-
faction with the man whose duty it is to preserve
order and whom the spirit of party alone main-
tains in office.
+
Last week the Foreign-Trade journals of Sydney
had an opportunity of exposing the Foreign-
Trade Government which muddles the affairs of
that unhappy colony, and their silence under these
circumstances was solemn and intense. The
annual report of the New South Wales Auditor-
General has just come to light, and by its showing
the Parkes Administration garbled the accounts
for the year 1887 to the extent of rather over
£137,000 ; and in addition to this they perpetrated
a disgraceful trick on their predecessors by annex-
ing some £35,000 of the revenue of 1880, and credit-
ing it to the ensuing year, thus adding another
imposing sum to the much-talked-of shortage be-
queathed by Mr. Dibbs, and propping up their own
miserable incapacity at the expense of anopponent.
The first balance-sheet of the “ honest ” Govern-
ment, according to the Auditor-General, was
framed in a way which hid a deficiency of £172,000
—a circumstance which doesn’t come under the
head of lying, but is closely akin to that diplo-
matic finesse which regards it as partially un-
necessary at times to tell all the truth if it isn’t
convenient. Mr. Burns’ statement for 1887
revealed the appalling fact that the Parkes Ad-
ministration had drifted to leeward to the extent
of £500,000 in the short space of 12 months, but
the champion expounder of the colony attached a
number of explanations by which he claimed to
show that some £470,000 of this amount really
didn’t matter at all. The revised figures, how-
ever, not only confirm this half-million deficit, but
add to it the other deficit which was so judiciously
smothered, and even Mr. Burns’ lurid eloquence
would hardly suffice to explain away this stu-
pendous vanishment of the national assets. The
certified statement of the accounts of New South
Wales—almost the only public document issued
under the Parkes regime which seems to be abso-
lutely beyond suspicion—declares that the
Foreign-trade Government, which was appointed
for the express purpose of instituting an era of
financial reform, muddled away in the first year
of its existence nearly £700,000 more than it re-
ceived ; and the one point in which it appears to
differ from the benighted Jennings-Dibbs Ad-
ministration is that it lacks the airy truthfulness
of that unlucky Cabinet. “An honest man is the
noblest work of God,” for the old gag still holds
good, but an “honest” Government is evidently
built on a different plan.
4
The demand for Mr, Garrett’s resignation is the
great political question of the moment in New
South Wales. Fach of the Sydney daily papers
has had a leading article about Garrett, and
some of them have bad two or more. The
D.T. rose to say that he must go ; the News
declared over and over again that he had got to
depart ; the Herald thought that possibly, if
there was any reliability in something that some-
body was supposed to have said, under circum-
stances which probably required further considera-
tion, to another alleged person who was under-
stood to be prepared to affirm that he thought ife
had been said to him, but who was waiting for
confirmation, it might possibly be as well for Mr.
Garrett to reflect and endeavour to decide
whether he 'might not be the better for a rest ;
the Star intimated that his space was a greater
pleasure than his association ; and various other
papers urged him to pack up his traps and leave.
At this crisis The Bulletin offers a little friendly
counsel to Garrett, and its advice is—“ Don't
resign ; hang on ! ” _ If Mr. Garrett has been
doing anything let him keep his pecker up and go
and do it again. Let him keep on doing it.
1 arkes always does. Parkes’ little weakness
consists chiefly in not paying so much in the £as
there is room to do, and he has kept on doing
it, and nobody has taken any notice, or if they
ever did take any notice they are forgotten.
Other Ministers also have their small peculiari-
Les, and they keep on doing it considerably.
Therefore, let Garrett be happy while he can and
go and do it again. And if any interfering paper
comes round and asks him to g'ive up a good
situation just because he is said to have been doing
it, let him ask that paper how it finds its organ of
consciousness. We don’t know.
Our auld acquaintance, Donald Dinnie, has been
refused a license for a Melbourne suburban bote],
on professional grounds. Mr. Judge Moles -
worth, who is himself no milksop of a man, put
the matter thus i—“ There was evidence that
Sunday after Sunday Dinnie’s hotel (one formerly
tenanted by Donald) had been visited by num-
bers of young men, who were attracted by the
fact that the licensee had won a reputation as a
wrestler. The fact that a man had this reputa-
tion was in itself a strong reason for consider-
ing him an improper person to hold a licence.”
” ho that knows anything about the surroundings
of ‘ ‘ champion ” athleticism can conscientiously
find fault with Judge Moles worth’s summing-
up ? Dinnie may be the grandest wrestler and
the most noble-minded man that ever wore a kilt,
but it is his fate, and the fate of all his profes-
sional colleagues, to have a magnetic power of
attraction for the most foul-mouthed, lazy, and
dangerous class of society. Let either of those
two well-conducted young fellows— Burke and
Slavin —stand in a well-thronged thoroughfare for
five minutes, and then let an intelligent observer
carefully study the faces of the crowd who
gather round the hero of the hour. The intelli-
gent observer will see the force of Judge Moles-
worth’s reasoning straight away. Every
sport has its large or small proportion of
respectable patrons, but the same old lot of
out-and-out blackguards hang on to them all.
And Dinnie has the misfortune to belong to a
branch of “ sport ” which is chiefly remarkable for
hangers-on, and which promotes a most obnoxious
v type of hero-worship.
\
A literary person, whose name ought to be
Thomas Clod, in order that his earthly cognomen
and his stupidity may match each other, publishes
this telegram in Sydney D.T., with a view to
propping up the Foreign-Trade interest•
‘' Bathurst, Thursday.—During a recent visit of Mr.
Dibbs to Bathurst he asserted that Sir Hercules Robin-
sox, when Governor of New South Wale 3, stated that he
had all he could do to prevent Sir Henry Parkes from
turning Protectionist. Mr. Dibbs also stated that Sir
Hercules had given up Freetrade principles and advo-
cated a Protectionist policy for the colony of which he is
now Governor. Mr. Sidney Webb, the secretary of the
local Freetrade Association here, wrote to Sir Hercules
Robinson on the subject of Mr. Dibbs’ statement, and has
received a reply from Sir Hercules’ private secretary, in
which the latter, on behalf of the Governor, says there
never was any struggle on his part to prevent Sir Henry
Parkes turning Protectionist, nor does he now advocate
Protection as the best polioy for Cape Colony. Sir Her-
cules advocated a Customs’ union between all the colo-
nies of South Africa, which would admit of one uniform
tariff against the outside world and unrestricted trade
internally and coastwise throughout the whole of South
Africa.’
If “ one uniform tariff against the outside world ”
is not Protection of the strongest and most de-
finite kind, then what is Protection, anyhow? If
this is not Protection, America, which has Free-
trade among 60,000,000 of people, is not a pro-
tected country. A general tariff against all the
world and unrestricted internal trade is the pro-
gramme of the New South Wales Nationalists
to the letter, and as this is Sir Hercules
Robinson’s programme likewise, it either follows
that Robinson is a Protectionist or that the New
South Wales Protectionists are strong Free-
traders to a man. The question whether Sir
Hercules struggled with Parkes or not is of
small importance. Men like the South African
Governor are apt to be a little particular as to
whom they struggle with.
--
The S.M. Herald, in a leading article last
1 nday, accused Messrs. M'Elhone and Garvan
of cowardice in the. matter of their denunciation
of the alleged delinquencies of Mr. Garrett,
the New South Wales Minister for Lands. The
Herald is the last paper on earth which should
attribute cowardice to anybody. The Herald,
without a word of protest, allowed all the ordinary
forms of justice to be set aside in the case of the
Mount Rennie prisoners ; yet on the morning of
the execution (which savage act of reckless ven-
geance was carried out ere the circulation of the
Herald had. been completed) the paper appeared
with a sneaking leader denouncing the manner of
the prisoners’ trial. When Hon. Henry Core-
land, whom the Herald well knew to be an
honest and straightgoing man, appeared at a St.
Patrick’s Day banquet, and while under convivial
influences made a rather foolish speech, which, being
obviously the outcome of the conditions of time and
place, should have been allowed to pass for what it
was worth —which was nothing—and treated-
with a little generous brevity, the Herald,
which never did like Mr. Copeland or his col-
leagues, but which is too cowardly a .paper to
knowingly impute anything upon which anybody
might found an action at law, went out of its way
to politically assassinate a good Englishman and
true (whose only crime was that he sympathised
with Ireland, and was game to say so) by means
of a verbatim report of his incoherent utterances.
And then, how about the Herald’s treatment, 20
years ago, of the miserable lunatic who was inter-
viewed before his trial-for-his-life! We like to
read articles in the Herald about cowardice.
Even Parkes despises the cowardice of the paper
which weighs three-quarters of a pound— teste his
speech at the Centennial Press banquet.
Speaker Young, of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly, was, some years ago, a sailor before
the mast. (He is still “at sea,” by the way.) His
appointment to his present position was altogether
unsought and unexpected by him. Those who
know Mr. Young in private, and are aware how
honourable and manly has been his conduct
throughout a hard commercial struggle, are dis*
posed to sympathise with him in his present diffi-
cult position, and to resent the unnecessarily
brutal character of the attack made upon him by
Mr. David Buchanan.


CORRESPONDENCE
“ 8.N.” : It is hard to get a member of Parlia-
ment to take up such a c.ase in N.S. Wales. The average
member (having an eye to what he calls “ social position ”)
is afraid to interest himself in endeavouring to redress
any case of injustice, however flagrant, in which influential
persons are the offenders, for fear that he may offend
“ good society,” or be accused of “ sympathising with the
criminal classes.” Members will not touch the Mount
Rennie case, because it is “too dirty”—the fact, of course,
being that there are few 7 members of the House whose social
position and motives are absolutely unchallengeable.. ..
“ESA.”: Too incoherent. We consider that the mari-
time unions behaved with great want of consideration in
the Alameda affair. Their end could just as easily hive
been obtained by adopting gentler measures with regard
to Captain Morse, who met them very fairly, and
was not, it must be remembered, his own master....
“ Thomas Oa en ” ( ‘ Reyealer of the Scriptur”): Seventy
pages of mere drivel “F.W.” (Townsville): It isn’t
law, and if the man was not subpoe-aed and didn’t incur
any expenses, it isn’t justice either. We hive not time
at present to say what it is ...“ Alligator ”(N Q): Many
thanks. Why' not send in original news? “ P,Y.‘
(Melb.): The Journal is owned by a Limited Liability
ho., to the secretary of wbi li you should make your sub-
scription payable....“ J. Newton” (Parramatta): The
commercial success of the S. M. Herald arhes frcm a
cause which ought to be patent to the du'lest understand-
ing. The paper weighs half a piund—and if another
paper weighing three-quarters of a pound were started
to morrow it could crush the Her ald in short order. And
while on tins subject, just think wdnt hitherto undream'-
of powers for good would centre in a paper that weigh'd
a hundredweight and I laid to be carted round, t vo num
bers at a time, in a van “R.C.M.” (N.Z): The
“ parody on ‘ Gcd Save the Queen,’ from a Gravesend
p.per, ’ which you send us, was written f ir and originally
published in The Bulletin and his g-one the rounds of
the Briti-h Radical Press .“M. B. Goggs”: Please ca 11...
“ JD.’(Ballarat): Rather a clever little yarn “An
Adm'rer” : When we get what we cons'der are good
tilings (for o.r purposes), we print them without altera-
tion. If we alb wed ou'side writers to run our paper it
would go to the de\il (frcm cur point of view). As to
acknowledging things from other papers—what is the use
of crediting to a paper something which it has not
originated, but only stolen ? We oniv acknow ledge what
is original...." Nobody” : Your literary style is unspeak-
ably horrible. A sinful waste of notepaper and stamp?.
“Subscriber” (Rookwood): Mr. Selwyn Smith
“C.G.MG.”: Very good “ Iluinanitas” : Excellent,
and much needed. Next week “ Robert B.” : Thanks.
Next week “B. B. A. A lioary, gory Tory
Uackran Creek ’ : Purely pastoral verse, whidh would
only look well in the poet's corner cf the Down and
Gemtrek. Stand back and look at a hunk cf it :
“ To the pastoral community, no doubt, they are a curse ;
Pent as for Pasteur's remedy it might again prove worse ;
Which is the chicken cholera of which I don t approve,
Though I don't doubt but what in time the plague it
would remove.
Put to our poultry farms also it soon would put an end,
I pon which so many families for a living do depend.
As their fowls would scon fall victims to this contagious
d sease,
Mhich is said would kill all birds from emus to pee wees.”
.. “ V .T.R.” (Prahran) : A paper is published there under
the title of the Miner. We cannot say for certain if it
has a rival yet....“ R M.M.” (E>mbowen): Salaries of
Australian Governors are : X S.W., £7OOO ; Queensland,
£5OOO ; S. Australia, £5OOO ; Victoria, £lO,OOO ; W. Aus-
tralia, £3OOO with £133 allowances. President of United
States receives £lO,OOO and governs about 50 times the
population which Sir Henry Lcoh bosses for the same
amount. Australian Agents General receive : N.S.W.,
V‘2ooo ; Queensland, £l5OO ; S. Australia, £l5OO ; Vic-
toria, £2500 ; W. Australia, nil. .. Otto. F.” : Many
thanks. Will enquire “Brimstone": Thanks ...
“T. Hawkings”: Many ttianks. Next week “A
Liverpool Girl”: Will republish “H.H.C.”: Next
week “E.A.”: We cannot do so. In the absence of
proof to the contrary, the inac ion of the S.A. authorises
w ith respect to the crew of the shipwrecked Star of Greece
must be regarded a 3 mest disgraceful.—[Many letters held
-over.]
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos of The Bulletin's
reference to the Council of Tours, it) seems
as if, in condemning the Plan of Campaign and
Boycotting, the Pope has set himself in antagonism
wnh a higher authority than that of the Council
in question. In the 2nd Epistle of John, 10th
verse, boycotting of the strictest sort is enjoined:—
if such and such persons “ come unto you . . .
receive them not into your houses, neither bid
them ‘ God speed ’in ocher words, send your an-
tagomsts to Coventry —have nothiny whatever to
do with them. The genuineness of the 2nd Epistle
of John lias often been called in question, but the
Pope maintains its genuineness Why, then,
does he condemn the. boycott? The old gentle-
man has been magnificently sold by the idea of
Salisbury admitting a Cardinal to a feat in the
British House of Lords, and has out-Adrianed
Adrian IV. by bidding God-speed to those who
divorce the Irishman from the soil he tills, thus
making himself partaker in their evil deeds.—
Yours truly, P.W.N.
Bardett Smith denies that the N.S.W.
Court at Melbourne Exhibition is in a backward
u ui a i t. -n t 4.
Had all hands stuck to the ill-fated ship,
Star of Greece wrecked last week near Adelaide,
not a man would have been lost. As matters turned
out, the attempt to reach shore cost 17 lives.
T . ■ , , j*l ~T n , , ,
It is stated that Mr Goodchap will enter
Parliament on retiring from the N.S.W. Com-
missionership of Railways—with a view, possibly,
to getting the Ministership of Works in a future
Government.
Premier Parkes has approved of the pur-
chase of horses for the N.S.W. Permanent Artil-
lery, and has, it is rumoured, given orders that
none are to be bought which have ever run in a
w IIJ be r !T e^ ere « d t i iat T h l n the
N.S.W. artillery went to the Soudan the horses,
many of which had been in the omnibus-line, re-
fused to mo ve on with the cannon until they heard
a noise like that of the shutting of a ’bus-door.
“ All aboard 1” yelled the conductor, and on they
went to glory.
History of Botany Bay.
The Lien on Wool Act was passed by
the Council to enable the pastoralist to
give a mortgage over a forthcoming wool-
clip. It was not confirmed in London, on
the ground that the principle of granting a
mortgage on a growing crop was not recog-
nised by law. The difficulty was overcome
by re-passing the Bill, which, having the
force of law in the colony until its rejection
was announced by the Secretary of State,
gave local pastoralists the temporary benefit
of the measure for the season. The Solvent
Debtors’ Bill and the Usury Bill were re-
jected by the Council. The former was in-
tended to place a legal obstacle in the way
of creditors who wished to rush a debtor’s
estate to a forced sale—a practice by no
means unfamiliar in the past. The latter
measure proposed to fix the rate of interest
recoverable on loans and mortgages at 5 per
cent., to apply to all existing mortgages.
• » #
The two proposals directly hit two blots on
our early commercial and business record,
the characters of which have already been
sufficiently explained. They came into
existence under the uncontrolled domination
of the class whose power it was hoped to
limit by a partially elective Legislature. But
the result of the very first election held in
the country, certainly under a restricted
franchise, showed that the public spirit was
scarcely intelligent enough to discern what
it wanted, or to put forward the proper can-
didates to represent its wants, if known. It
is not reassuring to note the motives, so
characteristic of the narrow spirit in which
the task of self-government was entered on,
BOYD’S IMFORTED SHEPHERD.
which were attributed to the mover of these
measures. It was openly alleged by his
opponents that all Wentworth’s proposals
tended directly to his own pecuniary profit.
But whether this was so or not matters little.
* * *
Another proposal gives us the first in-
stance we can find of the exercise of
the Governor’s power to refuse his assent
to a measure. A committee’s report was
adopted by the Council recommending a
uniform postage rate of twopence for the
colony. Sir George Gipps vetoed the pro-
posal. He also refused his concurrence to a
vote in favour of a National System of
Education. One very important action taken
by the Council was in respect of its attempt
to control without reserve the local public
expenditure. We have seen how one step
had been already conceded in this direction
m 1835. Mr. Richard Windeyer, a man of
liberal sympathies, moved a reduction of the
future Governors’ salaries by £looo—from
£5OOO to £4ooo—and, on the motion being
passed, the Governor informed the House
that his instructions did not allow of his
assenting to its act. At this time the Civil
List reserved from local revenues by the
English authorities amounted to upwards
of £Bl,OOO, and it was held by those who
wished to see the colony self-governed
as far as possible, that such ° a sum
™ to a population of
130,806, as shown in the census of 1841.
But it was claimed that even the sum
asked for was too small. The Council was
asked to supplement it in certain par-
ticulars. Some of the members took the
opportunity to question some of the original
items. But here the Governor interfered,
and withdrew the Estimates on the plea that
they were fixed by the Secretary of State,
and were above revision. The additions
were not voted, but the claim to the right of
control on the part of the Council was de-
feated.
* * *
This gives the story of the growth of the
Legislature up to the time of Governor
Gipps. It is instructive, as proving that the
interests of the colony, as a general rule,
inquired protection rather from the first
legislators themselves than from any outside
official power. Some of the Governors were
bad enough in all conscience, and some of
the efforts of Downing-street authority to
control colonial affairs in the wrong direction
were baneful to the last degree. But the
singular fact about our history is that in
all these instances it was the local
members of Council who suggested
these misdirected efforts of authority, and
who aided and abetted the Governors in the
work they tried to do. The plea on which
the agitators founded their appeal for Re-
sponsible Government was embodied in this
fact—the fact, as they themselves said, that
the local Legislature had not shown itself
‘ 1 either capable or desirous of supplying
the wants or representing the feelings of
the colony.” The logical corollary from
this position would have been the
sweeping away, utterly, and root and
branch, of every adjunct of the sys-
tem they objected to, when the moment
came for reform. We will see that this was
not done. The reformers fought what they
set about to reform. They were about to
have a chance to do all that Bishop Hinds
recommended. But they neglected to take
the chance when it came.
* * *
During the period of Governor Gipps’
rule the relations between the public and
the ruling classes the Governor represented
became s:i'l more strained. The principal
points o; opposition had reference to the
appropriation of large salaries from the re-
venues by the home authorities, and also the
fluctuations in the price of land, which rose
and fell at the mere will of the G overnor.
The whole question of the uses to which
the revenue of the country should be put
also formed a standing subject of public
agitation, and it began to be generally held
that the practice of transportation, which
rendered necessary such enormous outlays
on the police and prison system of the
colony, should be done away with.
* t (
Gipps came into collision with public
opinion chiefly over the land, and it is in-
structive to note how the power of the popu-
lar agitation was directed from its legitimate
ends by Wentworth and others, to play into
the hands of a class. The price per acre in
1843, when the first elective Council met, was
£l. This caused the most intense dissatis-
faction among those who hoped to get land
at 55., and build up estates to last for all
time. Distress followed on dissatisfaction.
The Bank of Australia failed, live-stock be-
came unsaleable, and the colony was only
saved from financial ruin by the device of a
squatter named O’Brien, of Yass, who began
to slaughter hi§ stock and boil the carcases
down for tallow. In this form they realised
more than the living animal. It was at this
unhappy juncture that Gipps proposed to in-
crease the taxation of land, and establish a
number of regulations and restrictions of a
somewhat harassing kind.
* * *
The squatters formed an Association for
their protection. The leader was the ■
notorious Ben Boyd, a gentleman of the
London Stock Exchange, of unlimited credit
and aristocratic connections, who came to
the colony in his own yacht, with the
avowed purpose of acquiring the ownership
of a million sheep and founding a pheno-
menal fortune in Australia. He brought
money to the colony at the period of Its
greatest distress, in 1841. For a time he
had everything his own way. The squatters
of the colony followed his lead as their own
flocks followed the bell-wether. He "knit
them together into an organisation, and de-
vised a number of plans to carry on pastoral
operations with the aid of as few shepherds
»■ possible, and the employment of no more
than the very minimum of labour. It was
part of his policy to cut the wages of his
shepherds down to 3s. lOd. per week
Hitherto these shepherds had been al-
lowed by their masters rations of meat,
flour, tea, and sugar. Boyd proposed to
save the two last items, which he regarded
as unnecessary waste and extravagance. In
his evidence before a committee of the Coun-
cil in 1843 he gave it as his opinion that any
more wages than £lO per year only drove
men to the public-houses. He imported a
great number of islanders from the South
Seas, giving them a Scotch cap and a blanket,
and sixpence per head, for their services as
shepherds. But they died off rapidly. He
engaged in whaling pursuits, and in nearly
everything else he could turn liis active
hands to. But he came to a mysterious end
in some remote island in the South Seas
while away on one of his enterprising
cruises, and the name of Ben Boyd was
heard no more. The squatters’ movement
went on badly without him, although Went-
worth threw into the scale in the squatters’
favour all the weight of his influence, ob-
tained as a representative of the interests of
the peojfle of the colony at large.
* ® *
The matter of immigration also began to
attract attention. Bourke commenced the
custom of devoting a portion of the revenues
of the colony to this purpose. He decided
that the best way to check the preponder-
ance of the convict element and the influence
of the convict-masters, would be to intro-
duce a new leaven of free men and women
by a system of assisted immigration. The
matter was badly managed by the agents in
Lngland, however, who aimed at securing
hie bounty offered them at all costs, making
the type of emigrant sent out an entirely
secondary matter. The results of this state
of things were of the most disastrous
Character. The streets of Sydney were soon
flooded by an influx of friendless females of
good character, and females whose reputa-
tions were anything but spotless. In 1840-
41 the total number of respectable females
who were unable to obtain employment
counted up to 600. These women rapidly
fell away into immorality, for which, indeed,
they were abundantly prepared by their
experience on board the licentious immigrant
Ships.
* * •
The name of Caroline Chisholm demands
mention here. This philanthropic lady
threw herself nobly into the work of assist-
ing the friendless immigrants, and rescuing
these unfortunates from the necessity of
sleeping in the parks and gardens of the city
rather than succumb to temptations of their
position. She established for their reception
t!ie Sydney “Immigrants’Home.” This insti-
tution began with a store-room 7ft. square,
and the work went on until it developed
into an agency for the supply of servants,
dealing with thousands of cases of otherwise
friendless and homeless immigrants. This
noble lady well earned her title of “ The
Immigrants’ Friend.” She instituted pro-
ceedings against the captains of immigrant
ships whose conduct on the voyage had been
particularly atrocious, forced the immigration
officers to introduce some method and order
into their work, and though she had had
little or no money to start with she succeeded
in the space of about four years in providing
for upwards of 11,000 friendless new-comers
who would otherwise have been thrown on
the streets with no means of subsistence other
than their own poor resources.
* * *
&ir George Gipps left the colony in July,
1846. His term of rule is remarkable as
witnessing a wonderful measure of increased
activity in the public life of the colony, con-
sequent, no doubt, on the introduction of
the elective principle into the Constitution
of the Legislature. The way was now cleared
for the transportation question, which was
finally dealt with in the term of the next
Governor.
When, at the close of the last New South
Wales Parliament, Frank Suttor, who had repre-
sented Bathurst for 12 years, as his father had
before him also for a number of years, announced
that after careful study he had come to the conclu-
sion that a protective policy was the best for the
country, he aroused the indignation of all the
Calico Jemmies ” of the Western City, and
amongst others that of a wealthy retired store-
keeper, now a member of the Legislative Council.
This gentleman, who is known as the “Wealthy
Grocer,” in the. upper circles which he now adorns,
forgot the dignity of his position as a member of
the Council, and like his master, the Premier, he
stumped the little electorate for the sporting
Doctor who had been induced to put aside his
pills and pestles to contest the city. The Doctor
at that time knew a good horse When he saw one, but
he knew nothing about politics or speech-making,
and the Hon. Edmund Webb undertook to be his
mentor. Of course the “creature Protection”
came in for many hard knocks, and the little
Doctor, aided by Webb and Parkes, triumphed for
the time. A funny incident occurred at one of
the meetings. An irate elector asserted that he
knew when Mr Edmund Webb went the whole hog
for Protection. This, of course, was indignantly
man of molars and the asserter
to the proof. “Don’t ye remember,
Mr. Webb, when tin years ago ye were opposin’
Mr. Suttor when the Public Schools Act was
before the public, and ye wor addressin’ a crowd
from the balcony of the Royal, and the b'oys and
bushies in that crowd were rather lively (ye didn’t
get in by the same token), and whin ye had done
your speech ye were afraid to come down among
the crowd in case yer beauty might be spoiled,
but ye had to come and you appealed to Bill Paul
and yer committee to form a body-guard round
ye for your protection , and they did and in that
way ye marched to your home. If ye weren’t
a Protectionist then I don’t know what ye were.”
The voter’s sally brought down roars of laughter
at the expense of the honourable Webb.


At Mark Young's Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors,
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, olose to ssa
Vtb* Hone* and bugjfiaa lot hire
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg,
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
the “ Crown of Thorns,” and many other noble composi-
tions, handed us the following
“Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
“ I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES,
ie declare avoir 6t6 aussi oharmee que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a una
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES. Je les
r4commande en toute sinc6ritA ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney, 20
Juin, 1883.”
CERTIFICATE.
“ I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of “ Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and' tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
"The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
“ Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
" Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (Which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 Georgb-strekt, Sydney.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
upon EASY TIME PAYMENTS
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—Taken from Life” p. 15.
Her Majesty’s.—“ Lights o’ London ” „
Criterion. —“ Turned Up ”
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy .
New Opera House. —“ Woman in Red
Royal Standard.— “ Life for Life ”
Academy op Music.— Federal Minstrels ~
The “ Woman in Red ” painted her grue-
some autograph on the air at Sydney Opera House,
last Saturday, and struck the fair land of Aus-
tralia with a thud. There is a lot of weight about
this old, iron-shod melodrama, and when it comes
on the stage quite a lot of people want to hie them
away for ever to some isle of rest, but still it has a
few friends left who rally round it in the hour of
its decreptitude. Perhaps the chief objection to
it is that it consists so largely of “ Leah ” mixed
up with a woman who couldn't be, owing to in-
herent impossibilities ; also that it is pervaded too
much by a shapeless infant who was stolen from
the tents of Judah during Judah’s temporary ab-
sence on urgent private business. The charm
of the drama—if it has any charm—lies in the
way the bereaved Jewess keeps her weather eye
open for her daughter, and the energy she mani-
fests in the 200th act when she locks up the last
member of a valorous but incoherent family and
goes to drag her lost descendant from the gilded
home where she lives in simple innocence with
her hair hanging down her back. Miss Ada
Ward held up the “Woman in Red” almost
single-handed, and made a noble-looking heroine
out of a female who in less able hands would
probably have taken to gin. Many a lady
in Rudiga’s situation would sit down with her
hair in her eyes and her frock split in 17
places and swill schnapps out of a broken nosed
teapot Mrs. Edwin Palmer was rather a
nice Countess, and Mr. Frank Gerald, as a non
descript armed man who made his living by
bursting into houses and then nobly refusing to
take anything, was also a high-class character,
but the balance was misery. The long-lost daugh-
ter wasn't worth the row that was made about
h er —i n fact, many a mother would have paid a
good deal to have her taken away and dropped
overboard; and the shadowy diagram of a com-
posite spook with red legs, who to feel a
fit coming on, was played by Mr. F. Stanmaur.
It was alleged to be a count. Also there was a
corpse which could not be removed conveniently
because the count, who was carrying the latter end
of it, kept treading on its coat-tail; and a sym-
pathetic fiddle in the orchestra which invariably
gave a cry of woe when any villainy was about to
happen.
## # #
The roaring frolic of “ Yice Versa ” serves
this week as a prelude to the more serious incom-
prehensibleness of “Turned Up,” at Sydney
Criterion, and in the course of 50 minutes of
shrieking conglomeration affairs get so sultry that
the audience feel a desire to take off their flesh
and bones, and sit down to cool. “ Vice Versa ”
is the awful tale of an old, bald merchant who
wishes to be his own schoolboy son, and of the son
who wants to be the old, bald merchant, and of
how they both were gratified to_ the fullest extent.
The spirit of the rowdy youth is transposed into
the fleshly tabernacle of the ancient plodder and
scorches its bald head while making toffee over
the dining-room fire, while the outer husk of the
boy, inhabited by the inner consciousness of the
hopelessly-floored father, goes back to school with
ss. pocket-money and a solemn warning not to
make a beast of itself. It doesn’t, either. The
hoary image from the city finds that it has lost its
taste for marbles, and doesn’t care any longer for
the dubious strawberry-jam which is compounded
wholesale out of the half-pound of strawberries
that are brought in conspicuously at the front
door of the jam-factory and the ton-and a-ha’f of
unsaleable carrots that are smuggled round unob-
trusively to fhe back entrance, and the old man
turns up his son’s nose at the riotous, three-cor-
nered jelly tarts with currants inside and a feeble
paste on top that bursts up when one even thinks
about it from a distance. He breaks down, too,
over blasting problems about the way three-
fourths of a man bought nine-tenths of a horse
for seven-eighths of 3s. 7yd., and, consequently,
what part of 9s. 2fd. would he have to pay for
two-thirds of something that nobody ever heard
about, and he objects to being violently caned by
the master, and threatens to write to his solicitor
if the boys flick him in bed with wet towels.
Meanwhile his son disgraces the shiny head that he
has cadged by turning somersaults on it, and spins
tops in the office of tire old-established firm, and
addresses his father s clients with his utterance
choked by buns, and draws large cheques for
sticky liquorice, and otherwise raises a devil com-
posed of toffee and sour apples and stick-jaw, and
wearing a crown of jam and a leering grin of
hardbake and ice-cream. “ Vice Versa depends
in the first place on Mr. Brough as the body of
the Roman parent, which is afterwards inhabited
by the larky soul of Master Dick, and in the
second on Mr. Boucicault as the human form of
Dick, which is caned with equal liberality, no
matter whose soul is inside. Mr. E. B. Manning,
in his part as the schoolmaster, aho retrieves his
reputation, and proves that in a congenial billet he
is an artist of no mean order, and Messrs. Harris,
Willie Warde, G. Lash Gordon, and Mbs Emma
Temple make up the rest of a cast that is stronger
than the breath of a brewery and as joyous as an
election meeting at which somebody is killed.
** # *
Tessero’s French comedy was beamed
upon by the vice-regal moustache on Monday
night, when the people whose early education was
so badly neglected that they never learnt to ex-
press themselves in Parkesian Saxon presented a
double bill consisting of Mallefille’s “Les Deux
Veuves ” and “ Les Vivacites du Capitaine lie,
by Labiche and Martin. The first was a
light comedy not to be taken with any
degree of Teutonic seriousness, and the latter
was longer, only more so. Mons. Marsay, a care-
ful actor with eloquent teeth and a satirical mous-
tache, bore the weight of the edifice of both pieces,
and was well supported in the first little comedy
by Mdlle. Linange and Mons. Marchand, and m
the second by the talented actress, Mdlle. Der-
mancourt, Madame Raymond, and the capital low-
comedians Messrs. Blanchet and Marchand, the
acting of the latter as Desambois being particularly
humorous. The audience laughed as much as they
could when they vaguely imagined they had
caught hold of the ultimate residuum of a .vapour-
ish French joke, and mentally worried their pallid
reminiscences of Ollendorff and Dr. Ami until
their eyebrows wore a pained expression and their
white foreheads looked as if they couldn t help it.
The vice-regal yawn caverned itself over the glit-
tering dialogue that didn’t mean anything, snd
the show dispersed at a late hour with consider-
able dissatisfaction that there was no villain in
either piece, and that he wasn’t killed by a lift
that wouldn’t work, or a spring-dagger with a
canvas hilt that always finds its way intuitively to
the heart of the usurious insurance-man that can
only find time to die at the end of the fifth act. The
French Comedy Company mean well, but they
talk too much to be the offspring of a vigorous
nation, and we are slowly beginning to feel why
the French people failed to march to Berlin dur-
ing the recent Franco-German campaign.
** * *
Mr. Fred. Hiscocks still waits for Nature
to take him to her bosom, and in the interval he
fills up his time with minstrelsy. Assisted by a
brother in the flesh known as Friedman he has re-
opened Sydney Academy, and so far the building
has been occupied by a sea of humanity, all rush-
ing for front seats. The company includes among
its miscellaneous glories one large demon and one.
small one, who perform some very clever acrobatic
feats and enable us to form a faint idea how the
Devil looks when standing on his horns' with his
hoofs and tail sticking up in the air. Arthur
Sullivan and Ethel Silvena supply a magic enter-
tainment, and most of the members of the old
Federal Minstrels raise their heavenly songs as of
old. The performance concludes with the “ Lights
o’ Sydney ” in eight acts —an unholy attempt to
“ take a rise ” out of Rignold’s show, which would
justify that gentleman in swearing profusely and
falling from grace.
#* # #
The poor but honourable citizen in the
hard hat who elopes with the sister of the ruined
swell that has gone broke through the machina-
tions of the sporting gentleman with the profusion
of jewellery on bis sinful bosom, the same having
led him astray in order that he may afterwards
make the lady his bride, which arrangement
doesn’t come off, owing to the poor but honourable
man in the hard hat, is once more in evidence at
Sydney Royal. This time he is called “Taken
from Life,” and personally he is described as
#i>
vW Wc coye
O J K
A MELBOURNE CLUB SWELL.
Walter Lee, but his name doesn't matter much.
He can always be distinguished by the fact that
he holds his head very far back, and afterwards
gets into low circumstances and labours hard to
support a wooden baby, and also rejects offers
varying from Is. 01. to £li)0,000, while the man
who makes them has to retire cursing, with his
ill-gotten wealth bulging out of his tail
pocket. The only variety in the story arises
from the facb that he doesn’t always get
into gaol the same way, and the only fun
in the piece belongs to Titus Knott, the
remains of a human ruin gone to seed, who
muses outside public-houses and gaols, and suffers
a good deal from the voice of nature calling for re-
freshments ; and Bland Holt executes this part
with his accustomed grace. Messrs. Walter
Howe, B. N. Jones, and Leonard St. Lawrence
support sundry other characters which will remain
flat and solemn despite everything in heaven or
earth or the other place ; Mr. Charles Holloway
plays well but looks too refined as the bad man
who lays for the good man with the hard hat, and
Miss Myra Kemble and Mrs. Bland Holt sustain
with grace and ability the parts of two ladies who
ought to revolve on a happier axis. As far as the
drama goes there is no urgent reason why Mrs.
Holt’s lady should revolve at all, but she help 3 to
lend enchantment to the view. Miss Maggie
Oliver also rouses applause as an unnecessary but
clever lady’s maid, and some dozen more unneces-
sary characters pervade a piece which isnt abso-
lutely necessary in any case. The scenery is
beautiful, as usual, and must have used up nearly
live pounds of paint, Alone in London will be
revived next Saturday.
*# # *
A model of an ingenious “ sliding rink, ”
the invention of Mr. Lascelle, is now on view in
the premises of Mr. Stevenson, of 352 George-
street Sydney. The “sliding rink, when in
actual use. will consist of a large extent, of flooring
arranged in a series of inclined planes, down
which the rinkist will slide with a velocity that
will surprise himself. The use of shoes slightly
greased will make skates entirely unnecessary,
and the sliding rink will probably be found at
least three times as unexpected and a good deal
sooner than the ordinary pattern. It presents
splendid facilities for beginners, as the novice can’t
stop himself any more than the adept, when once
he gets started, and in point of speed it can only
be matched by falling downstairs along with a
two-ton iron safe. The suddenness of the new
invention should make it a great success.
** * #
At Melbourne, when the sun is low, The
Harry Rickards-Coghill show Is drawing like a
dray- horse, so St. George’s Hall fills rapidly ; The
toot ongsomble’s doosid smart; It cheers the
bashed and bleeding heart, And at the finish none
depart In tears or yawning vapidly. The welkin
(what is welkin ?) rings With shouts of joy when
'Arry sings, And all the novelties he brings Are
lighter, brighter, breezierThanmanyseenat former
shows ; Though pleasantly this metre flews, We’d
rather finish up in prose, Because it’s so much
easier. The new variety spec, contains a violent
pressure of talent to the cubic inch. After
the Coghills and a choice selection of their
old adherents have condensed themselves into a
brief first part, the Rickards combination take
possession of the festive scene. None of the
sweetness is too long drawn out and nobody ex-
cites the guffaw of glee at the expense of mode s y’s
blush. Enthusiasm reaches its zenith when the
rorty ’Arry explains how a bull pup’s pound of
steak was basely sneaked by the mother of an
emaciated family.
*# * #
Melbourne theatres generally remain
where they did the week before last. The Gaiety
Burlesquers are introducing fresh songs and
dances into the fifth week of “Monte Christo,”
and on Saturday they will appear in “ Miss Es-
meralda.” “Bachelors,” at the Bijou, has caught
on nicely, while “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” fills all
parts of the Royal, saving the dress circle, where
a proud aristocracy is but poorly represented.
Once again a river of real water ebbs and
flows in the Royal tank. It is partly
frozen over now, and after Eliza has picked her
frightened way across the field of floating ice the
villains, who have still pursued her carefully
wobble off the track and become sunk in the
wave. This is a wholesale infringement of George
Rignold’s alleged patent rights in cold plunges.
#* * *
Now that Miss Amy Sherwin’s season at
the Opera House is pretty nearly wound down,
bright ideas crowd upon her harassed brain. On
Saturday our old friend Yerdi (noblest Roman of
them all) joined a company already strengthened
by the engagement of Armes Beaumont. To meet
this additional expense, the management reduced
prices to their normal scale, and gave the show a
fair chance to make a glorious ending. “ Faust,”
with Beaumont, Verdi, and Miss Sherwin in the
principal parts, should be worth listening to.
# # #
The Novelty Extravaganza people are still
wreaking vengeance upon such poor unfortunates
as wander into the Alexandra in the vain pursuit
of pleasure. A clog-dance has been dropped
promiscuously into the plot, and likely enough a
brick or two will be dropped into it if they don’t
look out.
Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of thei? new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of a
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps •
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked’ contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, the
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
studs sustain the whole with absolute rigidity.
That these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
and tuning is only required at long intervals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by g;lue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
burg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW TEE
MOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
PEPPER
Salt
We are regretfully forced to the conclusi
that the Argus isn’t the paper it was. In its o
apoplectic, stertorous days it Was known chief
as a pompous institution that never institutec
anything, and its principal aim was to keep
tail of the British lion curled and scented, and
attend funerals; but in later times it has d
generated into a giddy old dog of a journal, a
a spirit of levity has entered into its soul.
respect for old-established circumstances has c
Creased a lot, and in a recent issue the tremendo
nature of its falling-off was instanced by an atta
Upon one of the noblest of Australia’s traditions
the Governor’s speech at the opening of Parli
ment. The speech, as a rule, is a respectab
statement of what ought to happen if it isn
too much trouble, issued by an over-paid ma
who is tired and wants to go to sleep, anc
it . is generally slung together as loosely an
clumsily as a bag of rats ; and owing to these di
tinguishing features, the ArIGUS moves that
should be abolished and that, in future, the Pr
mier should explain his policy by handbill. W
hold that this idea is undignified and unworthy
an old-established paper weighing half-a-pounc
The Governor’s speech was never supposed to 1
worth anything, but it is one of the monumen
of the Empire, and when it is read everybod
rises at once and wants to know why the Sheo
the Cabinet didn’t keep its promise to erect a new
hog-trough in the prosperous agricultural distric
of Smith’s Curse. * Everybody howls on th
loose when the Governor’s speech is unde
consideration and if they didn’t get th
chance to do this somebody would probabl
burst with suppressed emotion. Finally
string is tied round the speech and it is crowded
into a trunk somewhere, and then the House goe
and does what the Governor told it not to do, anc
doesn’t do what the Governor told it to do, anc
the Governor doesn’t care whether it does it o
not. Besides, he has quite forgotten by this tim
what he said in the speech, and very often h
didn’t know it at the time. And if he had known
it he would only have said it was a “ boah ” —a
least he might have been too tired to say it but h
would have thought ib, always supposing that the
man who is paid to do his thinking didn’t happen
to be in, and he had to have a vague impression
himself till the secretary came back to lift the
load off his mind. Anyhow the Governor’
speech is a noble institution, and a patriotic
country is resolved to hang on to it to the last.
* * *
In their feverish anxiety to keep abreast
of the popular leaning and hand-in-hand witl
public sentiment, Melbourne churches are includ
ing gymnastics and card-parties in their pro
grammes of events, and taking many pains to
train the young idea to shoot for gaol, and put the
heavy caber. Christ Church, South Yarra, first
set the example, by running a corrugated-iron es
tablishment to which the congregation resorts
three nights a week, to gyrate on cross-bars,
heave rocks, ring the dumb-bell, prod each other
with single-sticks, don the gloves, and climb the
greasy pole. When business is fairly underweigh,
this church hopes to turn out a regular supply of
large-hinged, muscular Christianity, witli knotty
meat-hooks and a comprehensive grasp of the intri-
cacies of scientific pugilism. The officiating parson
already displays improved ability in pounding the
pulpit, getting in his left with telling effect and
exhibiting great staying powers ; and, thanks to a
little training, the congregation now takes its gruel
with good grace, but is anxious to induce the rev.
gentleman to conform to Queensberry rules, “three
minutes up and a minute’s rest.” This is a glad-
some reform, and we look forward with joy to the
time when prayer-meetings will wind-up with a
glove contest between two elders, or a great con-
tortion act by the pale curate, and when parsons
will cease their vain endeavours to overthrow Old
Nick and wrestle each other for the plate-money,
collar-and-elbow. Fancy reading in the paper of
the near future“ On Sunday evening next the
Very Rev. Slogger Brown will officiate at St.
John Sullivan’s Church, and preach on ‘Boxing:
an Accessory to Grace,’ taking for his text the
18th verse 15th chapter of Proverbs (revised edi-
tion) : * A wrathful man stirreth up strife, but he
that is smart with his hands knocketh him out.’
The service to conclude with a mill of eight rounds
between Elder Ben Burke, the light-weight, and
Brother Foley, surnamed ‘ The Game Chicken.’”
* * *
A hundred or two infatuated admirers of
the “noble art” paid 55., 10s., or 203. each for
tickets entitling them to see Burke and Slavin
give a precious dear show, but found themselves
locked out from the anticipated bliss. Now comes
an announcement which should point a moral
even to these poor Jugginses. “ With regard to
those who bought tickets and were unable to gain
* I t has been decided to make these
ayadable for the contest to take place in a month's
tim e . We knew it. The Battle of Burke and
• blaym is coming out in monthly numbers-to be
continued in our next
The Australasian states
"Cardinal Howard is hopelessly insane. He has been
removed from Rome by his cousin, the Duke of Norfolk,
to Arundel Castle. The Cardinal is 6 feet tall, of great
learning-, and a most popular prelate. He was formerly
a captain of Life Guards and took to the church after
being jilted by a beautiful Irish girl.”
This story may be true—we don’t say it isn’t.
Only we have our doubts. Last thing before it
broke down the cable was busy appointing fresh
madmen among the aristocracy, and we have
grown rather dubious about eminent lunatics of
great learning and a fathom in dimensions. If
the Australasian will withdraw the beautiful
Irish girl and part of the learning and reduce the
WHAT IT HAS COME TO.
SYDNEY SOLICITOR (to brother professional): "I GOT AN OVERDRAFT TO
DAY FROM THE UNITED BANK."
BROTHER PROFESSIONAL (admiringly): "BY JOVE! WHOSE DEEDS ID
YOU LODG, EH?"
Cardinal to sft. BJ,in. we are willing to admit that
he was once a captain and that he is as mad as a
damp monkey, but we can’t go much further than
this at present. Or, if our Melbourne contempor-
ary prefers it, we are willing to say that he was
a militia lieutenant 6 feet in height, and that he
was rejected by a plain Irish girl with a brogue
and no money; or we are open to allow that the
I riah girl was as fair as the dawn if the Austra-
lasian will admit that the Cardinal couldn’t spell
words of two syllables; or else we will acknow-
ledge all the rest of the story if the Melbourne
journalist will take two feet off the height of his
overgrown lunatic. All history is based on com-
promise, and we want to strike a fair average,
but the Australasian insists on overdoing things
If it is willing to drop the Irish girl altogether and
leave the Duke and the castle out of the story, it
can have its Cardinal increased to eight feet high,
or if it gives up the lunacy and the Duke we are
willing to back up a plain assertion to the effect
that a bishop 4 feet 0 inches in dimensions pro-
posed ineffectually to six ordinary females. Again,
supposing the Cardinal is dropped altogether, we
are open to make the duke a homicidal maniac,
and, as a final offer, the girl may be enlarged
"O eleven feet if all the rest of the story is
abandoned. But as the yarn stands at present
there is too much of it—there is indeed.
* * •
The Albany (U.S.) Argus publishes a sad-
dening narrative, which ought to serve as a warn-
ing to young girls who contemplate entering upon
the three-cornered estate of matrimony, also to
middle-aged and elderly girls, feminine ruins, and
British females in distress. Twenty years ago
when the heroine of this tale had just reached the
kissable age of 15, she was wedded in Connecticut
to a prepossessing husband, who lavished his affec-
tions upon her for two years, after which he be-
came consumptive and coughed himself up on to
the golden ramparts of the future state. He left
no children, and the vision of bliss who had glad-
dened his heart got all his money, and bestowed
herself on a bad egg from New York. Life with
this second gentleman was a perpetual drunk, and
for one lurid year he lived amid a forest of bottles
and a rolling tide of dice and cigars. Then he
took all the rest of the money and fled to London
where he wallowed in fog and gin and carried on
w ud jamborees, until at last he grew weary of
existence, and wound up by writing a pathetic
letter to his wife and shooting himself. The ill-
used lady had by this time come down so low that
It was said of a dunder-headed witness in
a Melbourne suburban court last week, that he
could nob tell how many beans make five. “Can’t
I;” indignantly retorted the galoot, “ What
kinder beans d’yer mean ?”
N.S.W. barrister examining -witness, an
old German, who was supposed to be “a bit off” :
You were in the madhouse once, were you not?”
“No.” “What! were you not mad?” “I vas
neffer matt, but I tink I knows one dat soon v ill. ”
“ Peaceable Citizen,” in Melbourne Herald,
suggests that licenses to carry revolvers should
be issued to gentlemen of well-known standing
during Exhibition time. We thought that prepara-
tion had already been made for receiving “Dis-
tinguished Visitors.”
A bank manager was charged at Brighton
(Vic) the other day with chopping down a three-
railed fence with a walking-stick. The Bench
gravely remarked that it didn't believe it could be
done, but fined defendant five shillings with two
guineas costs. Truly the ways of J.sP. are past all
understanding.
Of the 30 Early Fathers who constituted
the first Legislative Council (1856) of Victoria
only the Hon. James Cowie is left to tell the tale.
He can tell it, too, with a spice of humour, bu ;
the veteran’s historic experiences are mostly kep i
to himself. The name of James Cowie never ap-
pears in the Melbourne papers save in his capa-
city of magistrate on the Eitzroy bench, where, by
the way, his brother beaks must find him some-
thing of a refuge in the time of trouble. Certainly
no amateur justice in Victoria understands his
whole duty to “ drunks ” and petty larcenists
better than Mr. Cowie, for he sat on the judg-
ment seat at a period when many of Mrs. Rappi-
port’s judicial admirers were still sucking taffy
and saying their prayers. Thirty-five years ago,
when Geelong possessed a live present and the
hope of a healthy future, Mayor Cowie ruled its
municipal roast, and he ran, we believe, the first
trading steamer between that town and young
Melbourne. He was a “representative Vic-
torian ” before the term became associated with
everlasting banquets and Governors’ levees, but
there is nothing of the C.M.G. about this patriarch
among old identities, nor does he ever come for-
ward to state that his little pile is the result of
his landing here with twopence-halfpenny and a
determination to succeed in life. Henry Miller’s
death left James Cowie the very last of the
Councillors, and he looks likely to hold that
honour for many a long day. He has discovered
the elixir of life in Scotch whisky, taken in cold
water and strict moderation.
she had to tie her hair with string for want o
the wherewithal to purchase a ribbon, but she
braced herself up and married a quiet-looking
man who fell off a steamer, and left only hi
memory to console his widow. But she subduec
her sorrow, and went to the altar with
a Massachusetts citizen who afterwards blew
down a gun, and saw it go off. He
had his head along with him at the time
and he didn’t get it out of the way quite sc
quickly as he had intended, so he was laid in the
cold, cold ground, and his soul went away to
knock at the golden portal. His successor helt
out for five years, and for the most of that time
he presented no features of thrilling interest. He
never stayed out late, or swore, or forgot to wipe
his boots, and life drifted along easily and pleas
antiy, until at last he fled with a woman who hac
a husband already, and left two homes desolate.
Ihe missing gentleman never came back, and the
divorce court, after viewing the circumstances oi
the case, decreed that he should plant his cold
feet against his weeping wife no more. His
memory was regretted chiefly because the next
man was too lazy to think, and never took any
exercise except when he walloped his darling until
she couldn’t stand. He laboured to keep her up
to the mark by means of a large strap for a year
or two, and then he was also shunted by process of
#7' j® seven th husband came along shortly
afterwards, and, as he is comparatively young and
healthy, it is hoped that he may hold out for
some time. His partner in life is also still young,
and having fully recovered from the shocks she
experienced at the hands of her sixth husband she
is decidedly beautiful, and she owns 100,000dols.
which she has piled up in the course of her stormy
career. Occasionally in the summer time they go
away for a holiday and visit the graves of the con-
sumptive husband and the one who blew into the
gun, and at other times they recall old memories
of the man who fell off the steamer, so that in a
quiet, innocent way they are quite happy. The
moral of this story is that life is a to-s-up, in the
course of which we are liable to come down
heavily, and that the paths of this flowery earth
are strewn with pitfalls into which the lion falls
on top of the lamb, and his blood is on his own
dead.
PUOS, SLUGS, AND MUGS.
hey, the modern pug
Fights according to the law,
And he’s ready for a slug
Just as long as it’s a draw ;
ou P a y your brass
To behold the hollow show,
You are probably an ass—
Sing ho, sing ho—
Yery probably an ass,
You know.
Sing hey, a howling mob
And a pair of sucking doves,
Who are not ‘‘upon the job,”
Though agoing for the gloves;
1 hey light the proper rounds
With a proper puff and blow,
And you’ve had your little pounds’
Worth, ho ! worth ho !
\ ou have parted with your pounds,
And go.
Sing hey, another mill
And another rousing “gate”—
They will keep it up until
No one rises at the bait;
You can bet yortr boots and socks
(An expression which is low)
They’ll strike matches on the box,
Sing ho, sing ho—
Safety-matches on the box,
Just so.
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin,—Some years ago there lived
near Grenfell (N.S.W.), one Michael O’D ,
who (a staunch son of Mother Church, by the way)
took a more than ordinary fancy to the local parson’s
milking cow, and what is more to the purpose, he
sank all religious prejudices and actually purchased
her-resolving to guard against all evil conse-
quences and drive out the effects of the “ Revised
Version” by sprinkling her with holy water before
milking. When about to milk her for the first
time, he emptied along her back the whole contents
of a bottle which he supposed contained holy water
(but by mistake he had brought with him a bottle
of nitric acid kept in stock for doctoring foot-rot
in sheep). The effect surprised the cow and also
Michael, who remarked to his wife, who was
superintending affairs: “Howly Moses, Biddy but
look at how she shmokes ! Be jabers the Prodeetan
was shtrong in her.’’—Yours truly, Bally.
* * •
The looseness and uncertainty of witnesses
on the subject of hell is the great stumbling-block
of the Australian magistrate, and this difficulty
appears to be growing steadily larger and larger.
Only the other day it assumed new dimensions, in
addition to the dimensions it had before. A
blackfellow was the chief witness in the case then
m progress, and as everything was understood to
depend on his testimony, it was considered neces-
sary to sound his religious knowledge with un-
usual care. So when the aboriginal stalked into
the box and reached out a long, dirty, matter-of-
fac. claw for the Scriptures, he was brought up
abruptly : What are you going to do, Jimmy ?’’
inquired the Lench, and Jimmy turned round
and gazed indifferently at the white authority
through the maze of hair which hung 1 over his
eyes. “Him go swear,” he answered, listlessly.
JJo you fully understand the nature of an oath
said the magistrate, solemnly. “Kiss him book
all same white pfeller, baal gammon,” responded
the languid son of the soil. “Yes 1 yes ' But do
you know what wili happen to you if you do not
t , ruth? reiterated the powers of the law.
Ihe black man leaned against the side of the wit-
ness-box as if he wanted to fall asleep. His eyes
closed two or three times, and then opened again
slowly, but at last he collected his thoughts and
pointed with one murky finger at the plaintiff •
i s pose my fren’ lose ’im case then,” he ex-
plained—and the magistrate groaned as he con-
templated the mental darkness of the aboriginal
* * *
Such cities as Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane are now filled almost to suffocation with
solicitors and barristers, and in a few years it
seems probable that many of this tribe will be
reduced to such straits that cannibalism will become
an established practice. A few gentlemen of
eloquence and large discourse are still making
liberal incomes, but the majority of the profession
are duller than stagnation, and thicker in the
head than a large book. Probably they are too
miserable to be fluent and persuasive. The real
home of Australian oratory is now to be found in
the bush, and the oratorical fire of the back-blocks
attorney, combined with his deep knowledge and
his almost superhuman readiness of resource point
to him as a man who will ere long efface the thin
and washy city lawyer and leave him to earn a
humble living by carrying fish. Only last month,
at Charleville (Q.), there was exhibited a striking
manifestation of that Napoleonic promptness
which enables the solicitor whose mental faculties
have been sharpened by ceaseless contemplation
of nature in its wildest aspects, to snatch victory
even in the moment of defeat, and to overturn the
deep machinations of his enemies. The case re-
lated to a bucket. According to the plaintiff’s
story the defendant had borrowed a bucket of
water from him, and had then come back for
another bucket. He did not return the vessel
and when the plaintiff interviewed him on the
subject he unlawfully stated that he would keep
the blessed bucket. There was a gleam of lurid
triumph in the plaintiff’s eye as he gave this testi-
mony, and he glared at the other man’s attorney
with a piratical look. But the attorney was un-
moved. With a fixed aspect he stood up, looking
like a great reck in a barren land, and stated in
accents stern and wild that the plaintiff could
have his bucket when he brought back the de-
fendant s tin-dish. Demosthenes could not have
said more at such a crisis. Neither, in all pro-
bability, could Kikero. Then the pent-up
emotions of the crowd found vent in tears. The
plaintiff collapsed heavily into his seat amid the
rums of his shattered ambition. The magistrate
in a voice broken by emotion, said that he didn’t
see how he could order the bucket to be given up
and he hurled at the head of the plaintiff an order
for 10s. (id. costs. At this stage of the proceed-
ings that miserable man arose and fled, and was
seen no more.
* * *
The recent appointment to the N.S. W.
Magisterial Bench of an obscure Sydney store-
man attracts attention once again to the manner
in which these appointments are made, and the
local standing of the appointed. Certainly J 8 P
m and around Sydney have had their claws cut’
and are now almost as harmless as John Davies’
historical “wooden-leg blister,” for the Stipen-
diaries do all the work. In the back-blocks,
however, the unpaid article still flourishes luxuri-
antiy. We remember an old-time J.P. who
religiously occupied his judicial seat on fixed days
air weather or foul, and who always arrived in
town on the afternoon previous to court day, so
that he might have ample time to hear all current
gcissip, and imbibe refreshment sufficient to shore
him up against the great mental strain incidental
to the exercise of the judicial function next morn-
m £* -ti-6 was a constant visitor to the five or six
pubs, which adorned the little town, and by closing-
up time he was in the happy condition of being
unable to pick his own particular hotel out of the
number. On one of these occasions he got so
noisy that the genial Irish sargint in charge of
the town locked up the J.P. for safety. On
waking in the morning he found himself with a
throat like a lime-burner’s wig, and a mate in the
him. On comparing notes it was found
that his fellow-prisoner was to be a suitor that
day at court, and the pros and cons of his case
were carefully gone into. The considerate lock-
up keeper discharged both on their own bail to
appear at 10 o’clock. At 10 sharp the J.P. pleaded
guilty and was discharged with a caution. He
immediately mounted the rostrum and took a part
in the causes adjudicated on until his cell-mate’s
case came on. The latter had been rubbing his
hands all the morning congratulating himself on
having a friend at Court,” when to his utter as-
tonishment (for he had “shouted ” many whiskies
and soda for the J.P.) the latter was the worst of
the crowd and imposed the heaviest fine the
Bench could inflict.


Personal Items.
Tli3 King of Servia has divorced his wife.
Mr. Wolf is going to change his name.
We suggest Lamb.
There is in Sydney an editor who once
wrote a cookery-book. Name ?
Poet Whittier, now in his eightieth y ear,
mourns that he never got married.
The Marquis of Queensberry left Sydney
for America by the Alameda last week.
Mrs. Henry Labouchere has come out as
a political orator in the Radical interest.
The Marquis of Queensberry smokes a
pipe in the street, and we rather “ cotton ” to him
on that account.
“ If you jaw me, I’ll throw you down the
stairs.” That is how the Mayor of quells
insurrections in the Council.
Phyllis Broughton, the much-photographed,
is sueing Viscount Dangan, a young sprig of
nobility, for breach of promise.
Kaiser William did not die such a rich
man after all. Jimmy Tyson could have bought
him with the Crown thrown in.
The beautiful and ever-young Lady
Dudley, it is said, is engaged to be married to a
French cavalry-officer without a penny.
The well known legal firm of Gillott,
Snowden, and Crolcer, Melbourne, have an articled
clerk in their office named Chin Hong Fat.
The Tories are now very solicitous about
John Bright’s health. T wenty years ago they would
have felt cheerful at the prospect of his funeral.
Sir William Manning is amongst the
oldest five Knight 3 Bachelors in the English
order of knighthood, having had a handle given
him in 1858.
Spurgeon, it is reported, is about to
resume his relations with the English Baptist
Union. It is understood that he has eased up
slightly on hell.
Editor Winter, of Melbourne, is taking
lessons in dancing and deportment. So far as the
deportment is concerned, we consider this a sheer
waste of money.
Sir Walter Scott was an ardent fisherman,
and when he endeavoured to form an idea of
Paradise he always supposed a trout-stream
running through it.
C. T. Studd, of cricketing celebrity, was
married at Tientsin, on 7th April last, to Miss
Priscilla Stewart. Both are engaged on the In-
land China Mission.
Queen Victoria’s full title now is :
Queen of England, Ireland, and Scotland; Em-
press of India; Defender of the Faith, and
Mother-in-law of the German Empire.
Maurice Kelly, the oldest man in New
Zealand, has just died at The "Wade, Auckland,
aged 104 years. He had drunk whisky and such
things for 00 years. Liquor always kills a man in
the end.
It will interest some to learn that, as a
Privy Councillor, our own “ Plain Bill ” Dailey
takes precedence of the English Chancellor of the
Exchequer and next following the Knights of the
G-arter. There, now !
It is announced that the Emperor of China,
suffers from sleeplessness brought on by think-
ing about his aunt. That miserable Imperial
female has no palace to live in, and the circum-
stance preys upon his mind.
Mrs. Crawford, of divorce notoriety, has be-
come very religious and has joined the V esleyan
body. She is a devout and enthusiastic adherent
of Rev. Hugh Price Hughes. Like Becky Sharp,
they all finish up with a pew.
As an equerry-in- ordinary attached to the
department of the Master of the- Horse in Her
Gracious’household, the Hon. W. H. P. Caring-
ton. brother and heir to the present Governor of
N.S.W., has a salary of £5OO.
The treasurer of one of the Melbourne
branches of the Australian Natives’ Association
is called Swindells. There is no decayed old-world
superstition, such as belief in omens, about the
young men who belong to that branch.
The wife of a friend of W. S. Gilbert gave
birth to triplets—girls—the other day, and was
puzzled to find name 3. “Ah,” said the
Ballads” man, “call the first Kate, the second
Duplicate, and the third Triplicate.”
Dr. Macartney, the venerable Dean of
Melbourne, has just reached his 90th year. There
are few men in Melbourne who walk with a more
buoyant step, and his clear, penetrating voice
even now can reach the furthest recesses of fet.
James’ Cathedral.
“Mint-sauce” Jones, M.L.A., has just
remarked in the Victorian Parliament that it
was not always profitable to have an action with a
newspaper.” Jones speaks with authority. It
cost him—or somebody —not very long ago, £->OO
to screw £5 out of the Argus.
At Sandhurst (Me.) a few days ago, Mr.
Purves denounced the clergy as consisting of two
classes: “Brimstone” and “Treacle. Pastor
Nish has since retaliated. He did it in a church,
and he treated of Purves under three headings :
“ Asafcetida,” “ Skunk,” and “ Pole-cat.”
A collection of stories and sketches by
Australian writers in London is now in the press.
The editor is Patchett Martin and the contribu-
tors include Mrs. Campbell Praed, Mr. Haddon
Chambers, and the irrepressible Douglas B. W. A .
Sladen, who is no more an Australian than was
the Bishop of Rum-tifoo.
It is stated that the retired slogger, Jem
Mace, has two sons in the Wesleyan ministry.
Their college training was paid for out of the
funds which Mace realised by putting a head on
his opponents, and many a heavily-grassed pugilist
'has thus been indirectly blessed as a means of
calling sinners to repentance.
Melbourne Agf. remarks that “ the greatest
master of English in our own days has been Mr.
Bright, who is unacquainted with any language
but his own.” This is scarcely correct. Luskin,
Gladstone, Cardinal Newman, and George Eliot
—all good classical scholars—are Mr. Bright s
superiors in their mastery of English.
As evidence of the extravagant manner of
living adopted by a certain N.S.W. millionaire
squatter {not Tyson), it is alleged that he has
worn one cabbage-tree hat for 33 years. His
culinary arrangements are very simple. He uses
tin-plates and pannikins and drinks nothing
stronger than hop-beer—which he brews himself.
According to the World, the Emperor of
Brazil was in the course of his illness saved from
syncope by respirations of oxygen gas, accom
panied by frequent hypodermic injections of
caffeine, of which, on his worst day, he took the
enormous quantity of 31 grains in 21 hours. There
were also hypodermic injections of ether and
strychnine.
The latest about John R Minnie Palmer
Rogers is not so bad Minnie was appearing in
New York, and “Yours merrily” went to the
Herald office to thrust one of his everlasting
cigars upon proprietor Bennett. Bennett declined
the hoary hospitality, on the ground that he had
two cigars in his pocket. “ Then give me one of
them,” said Rogers.
It is with the daughter of an almost penni-
less Irish peer that Prince George of Wales has
fallen desperately in love, much to the concern of
hi 3 parents It has been stated in the prers that
the young lady’s father was a Scotch peer, but
the idea of a peer who was a Scotchman having
nae siller carries its own refutation with it and
may be summarily dismissed.
After a long silence, “the Vagabond’s”
letters are appearing once more in the Age, The
first contains this sentence, “ I and the handsome
chief officer, as good a man as ever trod a, plank,
exchange reminiscences,” &c. The position of
the first personal pronoun of course denotes that
J.T. is handsomer than the chief officer, and
better than any man who ever trod a plank,
Says a London paper :
“Lady Parker, the widow of a former Premier of
N.S.W., who died early this month at Lewisham, could
carry her mind back to the time when all the servants
in colonial houses were convicts, and she always said that
they were infinitely superior to any other servants.”
They were much cheaper, anyhow, and mere
plentiful. They were likewise much more civil.
If you gave 50 lashes to Miss Bridget M'Grath or
Miss Mary O’Hooligan (who wears the big bustle,
and spends four shillings a week out of her seven-
teen on cosmetics) she would turn round and “ give
you notice.” O for the good old times! Apropos,
The Bulletin’s “History of Botany Bay ” will
THE EMPEROR’S PROCLAMATION.
be published in a little while, in book-form, price
one shilling. It is designed to let Young Australia
know a little about the political bedrock of his
own country.
Rev. Alex, Marshall, of Scots Church,
Melb., has intimated in a sermon that he doesn’t
believe in a material hell, and that he does believe
in ultimate universal salvation He will believe
in several hells when tho 36 “ grim Geneva minis-
ters,” the Revs. Rentoul and M‘Eachran, have
their attention directed ” to his heresies. Mel-
bourne Presbytery, after a year of comparative
peace, must now be “ 3poilin’ for want of a
batin’.”
When Sir Henry Parkes and Sir John
Robertson were introduced to Mrs. Gordon-Baillie
in Sydney, over a glass of champagne, Mrs. G.-B ,
who, as the world is now aware, knew her way
about, informed Sir Henry that “he so reminded
her of Tennyson ” (adding mentally, no doubt)
“ but I haven't read your poems. ’ t his quite
charmed the Premier. “Old Jack listened
quietly for a while, and then, speaking in his usual
unreserved style, informed the lady that he was
quite sure she was an artful humbug.
One of the straightest and moat genuine
Wesleyan parsons in the Southern Hemisphere
is the Rev. Lorimer Fison, an old Oxonian who
sowed his wild oats on Ballarat in its nuggety
days. We are not sure that he did not exert him-
self at the Eureka on that memorable Sunday
morning in 1854. He made his pile and went to
England, and in right good style—colonially, he
“ blued the lot.” Then he returned to Victoria,
working his way before the mast and proved him-
self as good a seaman as any to the manner born.
He took to gold digging again, but found the
work not as of old and gold mighty scarce. After
knocking about for a time he laid aside his Oxford
High Church notions and joined the Wesleyans,
volunteering his services as a missionary to I ip
long before annexation, and where, for the las. ->
years he has laboured honourably' for the conver-
sion of the heathen.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Coal-league—Colleague.
The cases of the Mount Rennie prisoners
are to be considered “by-and-bye !”
Up South they don’t allow members who
have black eyes to attend Parliament.
Albury will probably be chosen as a site
for the proposed federal small-arms ammunition
factory.
The orator is above the mere speaker, yet
“Orator” Buchanan was unable to prevail over
Speaker Young.
Haynes, M.P., has on foot a scheme for
bringing about a mobilisation without notice of
the Australian forces.
Amei'ica’s banking capital represents
971,000,000 dollars; her dairy interests amount
to three billions of dollars. And Australia’s ?
The N.S.W. Government has taken the
Orange hall at Dubbo at a stiff rental as a Lands’
Office. This is a new way of subsidising the
Yellow Pup.
Persons visiting the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly are “ enjoined to maintain silence and
decorum.” The M’s.L.A. want to monopolise the
other things.
Major Parrott points out
that of 1100 or 1500 boys at one
large Sydney school, only about
30 or 40 are put through a course
of drill.
A Member of Parliament
who returned from England not
long ago, says that N.S. Wales
is chiefly known “at home ”as
“the place where they have
fights in Parliament.” He adds
that in the obscurest country
villages, the inhabitants whereof
had never previously heard of
N.S. Wales in all their lives,
he read in the local paper
graphic accounts regarding the
style in which the hon. member
for So-and-so took the other
hon. member by the neck.
Tim Healy, M.P., forcibly
pointed out that though the
Pope condemns the Plan of
Campaign and boycotting, yet
when the Sardinians and Pied-
montese “ grabbed ” iris territory
he disputed their position inch
by inch, and put arms into the
hands of Irish soldiers to fight
out his Plan of Campaign ; fur
ther, that he subsequently boy-
cotted Victor Emmanuel. Ex-
communication is simply the
clerical boycott.
Uncle Abigail, the N.S. W.
Minister for Mines, admitted
in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly last week that his
colleague, Mr. Garrett, the
N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
holds reserves which give him a
right to mine on 0,553 acres
under the Pacific Ocean, and
for which he pays no rent what-
ever. Eor an additional 3,193
acres he pays Is. per acre per
annum, and for another lease
he pays 2s. per acre per annum,
besides a royalty of (id per ton
on all coal raised therefrom. •
“Saccharine,” made from
tar, is 300 times as sweet as
sugar, and 70 or 80 tons of it
would suffice for all the breweries
in England for a year. A com-
pany, capital £1,000,000, having
been floated to produce the
article and crush the sugar-
trade by supplying the jam-
makers, &c., the Salisbury
Government have prohibited
the use- of saccharine in beer-
making as calculated to pre-
judicially affect the revenue.
The saddest-looking man in the Victorian
Parliament is named Graves, and his voice is
equally lugubrious—Graves’ tones are invariably
so. ( Laughter).
“ South Australian politicians can hold
their own with any in Australia,’’says an Adelaide
weekly. No doubt they can, and they can also
hold somebody else’s very well indeed.
“ The Tory policy of coercion in Ireland is
intended to crush a combination and not a con-
spiracy—a combination which is the sole defence
of the weak against the strong.”— Gladstone's
latest speech.
Mirams, M.L.A., in a lecture last week on
“Australasian Federation,” said that “the
N.S.W. Freetrade party was giving its last
despairing kick in its desperate, almost rabid, op-
position to everything Victorian.”
Had the N.S.W. Government not agreed
to allow the postmen to have pockets in their uni-
form, it was the intention of Mudgee Haynes,
M.P., to move in Parliament that the Postmaster-
General’s own pockets should be sewn up.
Walter, of the Times, advocates the treat-
ment of Irish political prisoners as common
felons. When Walter’s grandfather was in Newgate
in 1789, for libelling the Duke of York, he whined
a great deal about very trivial indignities.
The King of Spain has a salary of £200,000
a year and he is only 18 months old. If he saves
his money until he is of age he may be able to
start a daily paper,in the interests of Freetrade
and have some fun with it for a year or two.
“ Half-a-crown on his .Sunday hat is what
the workman pays for protection.”—Adelaide
Observes. The workman won’t complain ; after
a long spell of Freetrade the novelty of" having
even half- a-crown on his hat will be a pleasant
change.
On a Melbourne suburban train over 100
persons were recently detected travelling without
tickets. Yet the Victorian lines pay good divi-
tends. How is it that offenders of this cHs aie
never discovered on the N.S.W. railways, which
don’t pay good dividends ?
During 1887, 1,10(5,630 gallons of spirits,
195,894 gallons of wine, and 2,334,228 gallons of
beer were imported into N.S.W. There were
17.981 convictions for plain drunkenness and
92(5(5 for drunkenness complicated with insurrec-
tion, ‘ 1 tarin’ me uniform ” and other offences.
Mr. Pritchard Morgan states that the
Welsh goldfield, on which his mine with tin un-
pronounceable name is situated, is 10 miles long
by 50 broad, and in places it pans out 500 to 1000
ounces to the ton. We earnestly draw the atten-
tion of Chinese fossickers and others to the pro-
pect thus opened for them in the other great 1 ree-
trade country.
New song for Minister Abigail:—“l
Know a Bank.” Song for the N.S.W. Minister
of : “ Little Brown Jug (and Bottle Depart-
ment), How I Love Thee 1” (with chorus by the
Postmaster-General.) Song for the N.S.W,
Minister of : “ Here’s to the Maiden of
Bashful Sixteen.” Song for. Parkes: “Roberts,
toi que j’aime,” with “Alone in the World” as
encore.
The English House of Lords, which Lord
Salisbury is “tinkering” just now, consists of—
including the bench of bishops—s4o members. Of
these 279 were created in Queen Victoria’s reign ;
Lord Melbourne created 31; Sir Robert Peel, 7 ;
Lord John Russell, 10 ; Lord Derby, 2 ; Palmer-
ton, 12; Derby (again), G ; Palmerston (again),
19; Russell (again), 10; Derby (again), 7; Dis-
raeli, 12; Gladstone, 34 ; Beaconsfield (including
himself), 45; Gladstone (again), 38; Salisbury,
15; Gladstone (again), 8; Salisbury (present ad-
ministration), 17. The oldest title is that of Lari
of Arundel, created in 1155 by Henry the Second,
“ Replying to M‘Elhone, M.P., Premier
Parkes last week denied all knowledge of any
member of the Government having purchased
statuary from any member of the present Parlia-
ment He believed the statement belonged ‘to
that region far beyond the realm of this matter-
of-fact world.”’ Let M’Bihone ask the question
again, thus: —“Did any member of the Parkes
Government ever purchase, or authorise the pur-
chase on the public account, from any official or
ex-official of the Australian Banking Company,
Sydney, of any statuary, or statuettes, or other
works of art? If so, who was the Minister who
purchased (or authorised such purchase), from
whom did he buy such works of art, what was the
price, and what has become of the works of art in
question ? ”
The N.S.W. Government have not yet
made up their minds about being officially repre-
sented at Paris Exhibition ne*t year. Tp f. Bul-
letin respectfully submits to Parkes, Abigail, and
Co that it would never do to countenance the
commemoration of so monstrous an .event as
the French Revolution; that, as Hingland will
not be officially represented, it would be unde-
sirable for New South Wales, which usually
plays the role of Imperial England’s jackal, not
to follow the example of the “ dear old mother
country ;” and that, as France is an uncivilised
country, containing a lot of Papists and atheists
and no believers in the Kiama ((host, it would, in
the interests of “ Protestant Ascendancy,” true
piety, and “good government,” be altogether un-
desirable to afford any support to the frivolous
festivities of an obscure community of frog-eating
savages.
Thus the London Referee in a leading
article :
“ The most awkward item in Mr. Smith’s proposed t ote
ot Credit, however, is the £850,000 he wants for fitting-
out an Australian navy. The project i 3 specious, for we
are assured the Australians themselves will bear the brunt
of the work, and only ask us to give them a start in
naval enterprise. What does that mean ? During the
past few years they have been greedy for conquest. If a
stopper had not been put upon their zeal they would have
tried before now to annex the whole of New Guinea, and
would thus have involved us in a war with Germany,
which claims a quarter of the huge and worthless island.
They are now no less anxious to pick a quarrel with France
about New Caledonia. When we have provided them
with a navy, how long shall we wait before they are at
loggerheads with one or both of the two European nations
which, the timid people aver, are anxious to invade
England ? England, of course, could not be neutral if
there was war between its Australian dependency and
either France or Germany ; and the surest way of trying
whether a Home Counties Volunteer army can save Lon-
don from being sacked is to encourage Queensland and
New South Wales in their bellicose mood.”
The Referee is partly right and partly wrong.
Right, in that the Imperial party badly want
Australia to starb a big army and navy ; wrong,
inasmuch as MTlwraith’s formal annexation of
New Guinea was with the view of anticipating the
Germans.
I' he Melbourne Leader has an agricultural and
iastoral inspiration on the subject of dogs which
/orry sheep •
“The worried animal is fastened under the dog’s belly
i’ith strong wire, so that the dog cannot possibly get rid
if it, but must trail it about wherever be goes. He is left
pith his burden for a whole day, and after that he is dis-
gusted and repeats the offence no more. The plan has
ieen also tried with a setter that worried geese, and with
lerfect success.”
We regard this as an admirable device for politi-
cians. Let Parkek travel round with all the
svilted, half-mast Acts of Parliament which he
ias compounded, only to find them broken down
and incapable, tied to his manly che3t, and then
de won’t be able to get into the House unless part
of the wall is pulled down to make way for him ;
and in a general sort of way let the politicians of
Australia have the outward evidences of their
sins hitched on to them—and then it is just pos-
sible that a universal reformation may ensue.
Some practical Christianity from a London
paper: —
“ A few weeks since a meeting was held in the City to
consider ‘Christianity v. Poverty.’ It was decided to
follow up the meeting by a similar gathering to be held
in Exeter Hall. The question is a mighty one. Will the
speakers courageously tackle it ? Take two illustrations.
The Archbishop of Canterbury indulges in horse-exercise.
That is legitimate, and to be commended. But the Arch-
bishop cannot go from Lambeth Palace into Ilyde-park
without being followed by a groom at orthodox distance.
The groom, of course, ride 3 a splendid horse, which must
be well fed, and the feeding of which costs more
daily than is expended on a Wiltshire or Dorset-
shire farm labourer's home. The question is, How
much poverty is produced by the Archbishop’s
groom, and the well-fed horse on which he rides?
Take another illustration. On Sunday afternoon last we
witnessed in a London church 42 candles burning in the
chancel. The afternoon was unusually bright and sunny.
But the stained-glas3 windows of the church prevented
God’s sunlight from entering the church. Hence the use
of candles. The result w r as, we had artificial instead of
natural light, impure air, and straining of the eye 3. But
this is not all. The consumption of the candles was so
much taken away from the wealth of the nation, or so
much unnecessary and reprehensible waste, and this
waste, in the name of Christianity, is a cause of poverty.
We scarcely know which is the more regrettable—an
Archbishop on horseback, with a splendidly-fed groom on
a splendidly-fed horse behind him, or 42 candles worse
than wasted in a Christian church.”


/l ; ~
Mr :4'o'<c£ey ‘&« ■> Js/firq a f /s c/e** <>yec/ay | / — /
/! tfcue/tls 07C4 >7 c 6"/*! $ /$ ‘ / 7J/t/clay $a n. J< 0 / , / A r /
/ OU'/-C c«?7i,,/- <<"# 4,s Hyrc/e.-cJ-o. C>'rx <j <z £„fe,- u./r>en c/ W-t" fa 3 ar '' f
/ *//«/ -*
~ - ,/-Se*y*! /* ** &**
. , / / / 6<* rot <-<sJo ftytJt &
/ar y<a /«- - £ £">q /e*- n ; - y e '
' s<■//- ?a c
| <f/-. ?/'<• tZ-c. ■...:.==:
J cc vy n cfi £ a/'e- <>? />
it, ctyef <t/~ /ay<S ’*
/r <fo *o ?f* 4<"-rrccLp* <SecJ~
K<£s. 7S V* kk
J Uoccryey t’oy//y u. <7 of Ueyu- rf*' *u
'ff(Usury Of fr e~ U<-> rr, &- 6y foy '"> J '''" ' ■/O'L-e
tu.r/i/Ly S'U a f AozS'* r -/rc,s,rUs«.o /S' 0 t>e /t> Ul .
ofust c-f e re.
Ur l) y
f£e- net/- I
Cufe'' f i'
presey /
7vrj}S o<-ot~ f f/.
/ ( tfu rnf, j l
JVV/ f n Vo 14. /e- -
iy7s./)<‘j* 7 /'*■? et °
dr/yt .’ e. <e•■ ? t.l - 0.1 of C‘ > fJ’ , ‘ / 7 O
Coy7iyu.e. rfpe/T- /ocirozy fa’ nerer ojf-
qc lon* CoS* '* «> /A
/S c to<X>? C 5
L* 5/>o'sci //«
V/V-sf /
/ rr/*? ffi c j /cr-
s'c ~<"i *■ 1 a y e rUJ y
" jy) o y'/u - J a M/fl)~ i( $. * o'/e^
'7ye.y/,'r // Jy'’*S,c a ' f e?
7/-J &o?Ayy fye-'J
Clf'C a. r-4.<y oy J <*jd
\ rfytr °/f'* r ' r
y /-oc*-aif <y S 7~5
j v 6> c 7 f 7~ ya
I Coy sty ayc <?• yfrs/szt/e,
v f~y ,j> j e Coi< 7c C ,_c
yjoss/Oty />/-cce.e.ct J-ccr/^er
{/* 6c- Ca.)7e,cj J-C)- oy
<3-5 /-ooC^
IvjXJ y i s// ft A
ILaV" i/' /c/e-JX. < ue - Ctre -',
err ex
OrycLor+tc/ 7fa «-//,<. cC/for?
artcf v/rofo, r ,, e?4d s4^
6<t J-ytxdp fiens. uy-/i>~
~> y y y r/l *
// Z/~ 7u>-yj OU-Z /o' 6&
7fo/~ /*>* /> Lc6 Ais Q*'
__—. cjtucl e, /£> ocLg //~4) ai
-f 6>v-/ Cb/opici) &<2c->-4,j
/o Syfcf' ■
Ca /'& fie re /acA~/7y '9 r ' o// fi~
(c J c ' ir a 5 po7fi/y‘ <*-boa./' /.one
Co*s e~ JJ _5 tA e~ J~ .&ct A- cJc a-o ocj Cjfia-re- jfi'a.nt- L
A 5 «*• Oct j ccrpc-f ayj.4 r-& fiT /berJoyciJly
Co y cCttcfi fifi e. Sy ijcf /C ct ~7o~ t To »p &.
/i
/A>w,
y tfcke.
/r
*€*</t,
*y *■ Y cf/c/ a >?c/ ■—
v ?r M phyi \
.-,-\V <.5 A
«/ #r *
V <* t,
'm a <
o*% a.v« f
W' 1 f. n‘
y^W
r"^
/h '
. -If n m* tr
/ fCe, I /
* rv
/ J**' Sju.f o,c/ife,y /ur'er-erj
7> ( f-4u r?c7 7^a j'e./t-'SS /
Ja//-&/p yC cc y&ric/p/c <t-
-7% ty »,/,
J-O, /f< / ~- />*>-7u. u ; ar * i
U 3 /s<Ly iJert. 6*7f~ jfroc*
c& Os 7 <se. 7* s 3
7'L (j-/?oi'C /6 Cl of
f>)-o/be./-7if~
Ttj e 5 y/-)ot / (-* u*
o v’y e jes
A 0 "^2
A Good Investment.


The Parkes Low Comedy Company.—Announcement!
The versatile Francis Habigle will appear in his new original and amusing character of “The Wandering Minstrel.” His new song, “Just Before the Battle,
Mother” with unseen chorus “Just Before the Bottle, Mother,” is immense. This will be followed by a Bacchanalian Break-down, by an old, well-known favourite.
Other startling features are in preparation.


Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medioal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff. For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
tendent.*
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whits
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
Ihe quality Is exceptionally good, and the price vGry low *
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’e Snow-whit* Patwbt Rom.** Plod* it tbt
’'w* " .
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITEr.
Established 1853,
Are as usual showing the largest acd
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prioes
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable irsbru-
ments i
UEBEL and IMSTR FliM
The Wonderful 7KM PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTE? & Co, mm mm,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obiaine Elsewhere
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING & GO-. Ltd,
ise OHOHCnt STREET, three Doers teem 9.P.®
Society
Bollinge
[?]
“A gentleman of noble birth would be
glad to Teach one or more pupils daily, Violin,
Piano, or Organ, in return for residence in ventle-
man’s family. Apply to Carlingford, G.P.0.,
Melbourne.”— (Argus advt.)
Mr. Dow, the Victorian Minister of Lands,
is beginning to fear that Mrs. Gordon-Baillie’s
sympathy with the Crofters was not so beautiful
as it seemed. The spell woven by the washer-
woman’s enchanting daughter is broken, and
the faint aroma of her pleading presence, which
still, hangs around Mr. Dow’s office, serves but to
remind him that woman is a vain thing. Mrs.
G.-B. almost talked the susceptible Minister into
giving her 5 per cent, of Victoria whereon to
settle the poor dear Crofters she had never seen.
9 •
About three times a week, on an average,
Lady Loch reminds Sir Henry that he was so
very foolish as to publicly nurse Mrs. Gordon-
Baillie’s children at a Melbourne concert. “I
always feared she was a dangerous woman, ” says
lady L. To which His Excellency replies, “And
you are generally right, my dear.”
Dean Cowper lectured on divorce at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, the other Sunday. A
fortnight previously he lectured on marriage.
The Dean has just hit it. There is, ordinarily
speaking, only about a fortnight between these
subj ects.
* •
A N.S.W. country parson had bewailed
for a long time the multiplicity of his duties. His
pathetic. appeals for help moved not the compas-
sion of his unmindful flock. On a recent Sunday
he announced that he would adjourn the service
in order that relief might be immediately given
him. The congregation put down their Bibles,
and forthwith formed themselves into a committee
of the whole to consider the question. The dis-
tressed parson, who had quitted the church dur-
ing the discussion, returned half-an-hour after-
wards, and was much relieved on learning their
decision to be that “ a catechist should be ap-
pointed,” but his joy was turned to consternation
when later on he learned that the assistant was
to be paid out of his own miserable stipend.
* * *
In an extensive Church of England parish
in western N.S.W. the poor parson, “a real good
sort,” went for nine months without his screw.
As he was getting out at elbows and shoeless, and
his butcher and baker—who were not orthodox—
began to grumble for their coin, he looked up the
churchwardens and desired them to get the
parishioners to pay up. After a big struggle one
quarter’s salary was gathered and handed to the
little parson, with a promise that the other two
should be soon forthcoming. After waiting
Eatiently for some time, and some more quarters
aving been entered upon, the unhappy parson
shook the dust from his feet and departed for
fresh fields and pastures new—and that parish is
still in his debt, and will no doubt remain so till
the end of time.
9*o
By following in the footsteps of great men
it is stated upon good authority that we can make
our lives sublime. The same observation also
applies to great women, consequently the following
is a case in point:—
Some time ago Mrs. Langtry found, to her great regret,
that the American climate was far more trying to the
complexion than the even temperature and moist atmo-
sphere of England. The sudden changes of heat and cold,
the furnace-heated rooms, and intense frigidity of the
winter air dry up the skin and lay the ground-work for
wrinkles. Then the keen, dry atmosphere keeps the
nerves at a high tension all the while, and the pressure of
the active life of this country increases the impulse
towards nervousness. Before long she was horrified
and disgusted to find that the smooth silkiness of her
skin was becoming dry and shrivelling into slight
wrinkles about the eyes and mouth. She sat down
promptly and wept, and after the due and natural over-
flow of feminine distress, dried her eyes and began to
search for some unguent, some mollifying cream which
would help her to withstand the ravages of an unfriendly
air. Nostrum after nostrum was tried and thrown
aside in disgust. While she was half-heartedly experi-
menting with a certain emollient, procured by grating
cocoanut, twisting it tightly in a thin muslin cloth and
rubbing the face with a white cream obtained in this
way, she suddenly discovered what was meant to end her
woes. A wandering American, who had lived many years
in Persia, and had lately succumbed to the promptings
of homesickness, was brought to call, and drifted into
talk of the manners and customs of that Eastern land.
Incidentally he mentioned that the Persian women ward
off wrinkles by applying uncooked veal to their faces, and
no sooner had he shut the front door than one of the foot-
men was on his way to the nearest meat-shop. There he
procured several broad, thin strips of veal, and Mrs.
f ° r ‘ not at home ’ to every one,
retired to her chamber, disposed herself on the lounge,
he r countenance entirely covered with veal,
allowed herself to be read to sleep by her maid. Ever
r h fo> she has, throughout all her travels, gone
through this performance twice a week, and finds her
years UnfUrroWed by any new insi S nia of the passing
The Bulletin earnestly entreats its readers
not to scoff. The picture of a brave woman
U P with her face covered with meat and
nobly defying Time and space and old age, is
meant to. excite admiration—not ridicule. The
odds against her are tremendous; with a raw
cutlet in her hand she withstands the decrees of
fate and the hitherto inexorable destiny of
humanity ; she waves her chop on the shores of a
boundless sea, of death and bids the waves roll
back ; she raises a rampart of raw provender and
from behind it challenges the remorseless in-
fluences of decay; and the banner of her victuals
waves in the van of the great army of mankind as
it presses onward towards the goal of immortality.
Even the struggles which the gods watched on
the plains of Troy sink into insignificance com-
pared to the conflict maintained by one woman,
armed only with half-a-pound of food, against all
the forces of the unseen world; and her name will
go down to posterity along with that of the
.Norse heroine who stood alone on the castle walls
when all the defenders were dead and hurled the
last-remaining missile—a solitary dried codfish—in
the faces of the enemy. We forget the name of
that woman.
* * *
A “young widow” advertises that she
“ desires to keep house for a widower.” We
shouldn’t wonder.
The Marquis of Queensberry reports that
he lias been robbed of 30 sovereigns, and has no
idea who took them. We have no doubt that this
is correct enough, but the average English noble-
man who strikes Australia doesn’t get robbed of
30 sovereigns,, and if he attempted to pass such a
THE MARQUIS OT QUEENSBERRY.
story in public he would be knocked on the head
as a hopeless liar before he was half through.
Sydney tobacconists complain bitterly that
they have lost much trade since the roller-skating
mania set in. The young man who dawdled away
his time in the smoking and betting dens now
gyrates at the rink —where smoking isn’t allowed.
* «► *
The prospective nuptials of a certain
citizen, for which invitations have already been
issued, are likely to have a damper cast upon
them in consequence of the initiation of a criminal
charge against the bridegroom-expectant.
Although ex-banker Holt has already been
beaten twice in the Equity Court in his attemp
to get the Rosehill Racecourse from the Bank o:
New Zealand, he is now going to the Full Couri
to try and get the judgments upset. The affidavits
he has filed in support of his case are said to be
very lively reading.
* * #
They say that a lady who was recently
tried in Melbourne upon a serious charge declared
that no court in Victoria would cdrivict her of
anything.
s * e
“Well, John,” said a Melbourne lady to
an exiled Mandarin who supplied her with vege-
tables, “ are you married ?” “Yes,” replied the
worshipper of his grandmother with a gleeful
grin, “me got two wife in China.” “But,” re-
marked the lady in language popularly believed to
be specially suited to Chinese comprehension,
“ that not right, John; one wife good ; two wife
no good.” “No, no,” chuckled the hardened
heathen, “one wife (hitting himself in the chest)
fightemme; two wife (striking his fists together)
fightem they.” And the Caucasian thinks he
knows something !
• *
The late Miss Mackinnon, sister of the
original proprietor of the Melbourne Argus, was
an old lady with a benevolent bias in her dis-
position One day she was walking down
Bourke-street, Surry Hills, when a man who was
driving a load of wood ran after her, and, holding
out a ring, said, “Did you drop this, ma’am?’
“No, my good man,” she replied, “I did not.”
“ But, ma’am, are you quite sure ?” he persisted ;
“I saw it shinin’ on the footpath just where
you’d passed, and I picked it up and ran after
you.” She informed him again that it was not
hers. “Then,” he said, with a look of extreme
distress on his face, “ what am Ito do with it ?
Will you take and keep it?” Of course she wouldn’t
do this, and advised him to advertise it. He said he
couldn’t think of doing that, as, after he had de-
livered the load of wood, he had to go up-country
for his boss. Would she keep it for him, and ad-
vertise it, and when the owner turned up she
could give him any reward there might be after
he had returned from the country ? He was a
poor man, but he couldn’t sleep in peace with any-
body else’s property in his possession. Touched by
such rare honesty in humble life, the good lady
took the ring and gave him all the silver in her
purse, amounting to something short of a pound.
She duly advertised the ring, but nobody appeared
to claim it. About a week after she was telling
the story at the breakfast-table of the house where
she was staying, and praising the honesty of the
good wood-carter, when a gentleman at the table
asked to be allowed to see the ring. He inspected
it for a moment and then handed it back without
a word. “Is it very valuable ?” asked Miss Mac-
kinnon, with a shade of anxiety in her voice.
“Not very, madam,” replied the gentleman,
drily. “Well, that’s a relief,” she said, “not
being mine I wouldn’t like to keep it if it were
worth much money.” “You need have no mis-
givings on that account, madam,” said the gentle-
man, staring hard at his plate, “you can buy a
drayful of the same kind of ring at three shillings
a dozen—retail, they would be about sixpence
each.” We did not hear whether at this point
Miss Mackinnon fainted or not, but we believe it
gave a shock to her benevolence from which that
excellent quality never thoroughly recovered.
* * «
One of poor Phil Day’s most successful
gags, when playing the Doge in “Estrella” at the
old Melbourne Princess’s, some years ago, was
conveyed in a threat that he would “ adjourn the
court and let the spectators lose themselves in the
corridors.” The new Law Courts had just been
completed, and the joke was at once recognised as
having a solid foundation. As a matter of fact,
people are continually losing their way in that
huge Palace of Justice even at the present day,
and only last week Attorney-General Wrixon
managed to get himself entangled in the labyrinth
of passages while on his way to the Banco Court,
to defend the Collector of Customs in the great
Chinese alien case. He was finally rescued by a
law reporter, just as he reached the same entrance
from William street for the seventh time,
* *
• Canon Bromby, of Melb., whose
wife is about 50 years younger than himself, is an
enthusiastic advocate of Woman’s Rights. It’s
much better, you see, to be an old man’s darlin°'
than a young man’s slave.
* • •
The New York Shroud is the official
organ of the United States Funeral Directors
(aiighce Undertakers’) Association, and it is pro-
bably the most depressing journal ever published.
In keeping with its title are its motto—“ The
Hour Cometh ’’—and its frontispiece—a broken
tombstone and a hearse being driven into a ceme-
tery by a man in an abnormally solemn hat. The
contents include portraits and biographies of
eminent undertakers—one of whom is described as
chpery, and another as “jovial and courteous ”
—the latest styles of “burial caskets,” several
columns of humorous matter (apparently, from its
intrinsic quality, thrown off by some versatile
director” in the intervals of graver duties), an
editorial censure on “hearse-racing,” and an an-
nouncement that a few good second-hand hearses
a,re now being disposed of by a member of the
Association about to retire from business.
* * *
Whilst Rev. Dr. Bromby was conducting
service in the Melbourne Cathedral the other
Sunday night, a thief entered the parson ave and
took a collection. He got away with £l.” in cash,
“ u Jv. m( Ty left the plate—which shows that he had
sufficient grace not to rob a fellow-man of his
means of earning a livelihood.
* * »
Dear Bulletin, —In a late issue you give
an account of a man at Molong (N.S.W.), who
with the help of two wives, raised a family ’of 14.’
1 now write to tell you that we can beat you badly
over here. In a little town six miles from
Dunedin (N.Z ) two families lived next door to
each other, and there were eight children in each.
But the worrying part of the circumstance was
that one lot consisted of eight boys and the other
of eight girls, which was peculiar, not to say
exasperating. The mother of the former family
died m giving birth to her ninth boy, but the
other lady and her ninth girl got on all right. But
somehow she seemed to lose heart when the com-
petition dropped off, and she was left to run a
bloated monopoly, and she has only had three
more girls since. I merely mention these facts in
passmg, and l now come to the Jumbo family,
with which I calculate to double you up. In the
same village there lives a man who has only been
married once—your prize gentleman was twice
wedded —and he has an array of 22 mixed off-
spring. He is 6ft. 4in. in height, and the gentle-
man with the 12 daughters is 4ft. lUin. These
dimensions haven t anything to do with the case,
but I quote them because a Freetrade individual
in Dunedin told me that figures can prove any-
thing, so I suppose that, properly handled, these
would show that the short man is bigger than the
tall one. — Yours, &c., Mo a.
* * *
An exchange informs us that a young lady
from one of. the colonies, who also happens to be
a great heiress, has been compelled to return
home, because she was pestered to death in London
by fortune-hunters.
* * *
A bachelor of 43 who “ promises to be a
kind husband advertises in a Sydney evening
paper for “ a loving orphan or a lonely lady with
means. ” He wants the sweets without the bitters
—the bride and the boodle without the people-in-
law. This youth has cut his eye-teeth.
* * *
About the most thriving of the Melbourne
tabernacles is Christ Church, South Yarra. Dear
Lady Loch patronises this fane, and pews are
freely booked in advance.
* * *
The Roman Catholics of Manly Beach are
about to build a new church. Mr. Dailey heads
the subscription-list with £l5O.
* * *
The nasty thing ! During the course of
her recent lecture on City Life in Jerusalem, Miss
Yon Finkelstein rather annoyed the married-lady
portion of her audience by informing them that
Dear Carlingford, you ought to get
A thousand answers to your ad.—
To have you in their social “ set ”
A thousand mothers would be glad;
But, Carlingford, take our advice,
Don’t rest content with bed and board—
Toorak will pay a thumping price
Eor one descended from a lord.
You are a stranger in the land,
Perhaps, and little know your worth ;
There is out here a large demand
For gentlemen of noble birth.
A member of the old noblesse
Who plays the fiddle ! How unique !
Old fellow, don’t you go for less
Than five and twenty pounds a week.
They’ll think you cheap (ask Baron Smith)
For them no deeper joy on earth,
Than sitting down to dinner with
A gentleman of noble birth.
Go forth and choose the marble hall
You mean to hang your tile in,
But as for teaching—dash it all !
Teach manners ; dem the vi’lin !
NO NEWS FROM HOME.
(WITH BANJOE-WANCIE ACCOMPANIMENT)
No news from home,
No news for we,
Is sent beneath
The deep blue sea ;
Our daily lot
Is dry as dust,
Life’s tommy rot —
The cable’s bust.
How is the Queen ?
We cannot tell.
Has Bismarck died,
And gone to dwell
Among the pure,
Among the just?
One can't be sure—
The cable’s bust.
Can Boulanger
Be King of France ?
’Tis hard to say—
He stands a chance;
The Czar is yet
Intact, we trust.
Who’d care to bet—
The cable’s bust !
What is the state
Of Erin’s Isle ?
On what new mash
Does ‘Tummy’ smile?
Hot yarns about
The uppah crust
We don’t get out—
The cable’s bust.
No news from home,
No news for we !
It’s hard to find
Ideas, you see;
We sling this rhyme
In sheer disgust,
Excuse the crime—
The cable’s bust.
P.S.—Most of these verses read best backwards.


Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, best Snow- whits
Patint Roi,l«b FuOua. It Is the greatest euooess of the
at*.
“the wives of Jerusalem made it a rule to don all
their best attire in the house for the delectation of
their husbands.” There now ! Did you ever !
* * .
“Now, there goes my wife to hear that
red-headed parson tell her of her faults. Yet,
when I try to tell her of them at home there is a
terrible racket. I can’t understand women.” —
Meditations of a husband, page SOVoI.
A bill has been introduced into the South
Australian Assembly for extending the franchise
to women over the age of 25 years —the period at
which, in Australia, old maids begin to get spite-
ful.
« • »
Schoolboys have now a very important
matter to discuss. Some female in America has
been inventing a new form of punishment for
troublesome youths ; she has hit upon the idea of
displacing the time-honoured birch by a mustard-
plaster, which is stated to be a most efficacious
remedy when applied to unruly lads.
* #
A widow ha 3 brought a libel-suit against
an editor for publishing in an obituary notice of
her husband that “the deceased had gone to a
happier home.”
* * *
A Sydney evening paper describes the ex-
plosion of the mine placed beneath the derelict
vessel last week as “a dull thud.” They can’t
help it. When heaven’s gates open unto them or
the portals of Sheol shut down upon them with a
snap, it will still be “a dull thud.”
** e *
A country paper in N.S.W. recently pub-
lished a leading article about a new kind of cook-
ing stove. This is tne pass to which Freetrade
and free newspaper postage have reduced the
journalist in the back regions of the cornstalk
colony.
* * *
The proposed statue in Sydney to John
Dunmore Lang recalls an old story. The worthy
doctor’s antipathy to all sects but his own is well
known. No creed came in for heavier sledge-
hammer blows than did the Roman Catholics;
until some years ago in Melbourne —as the whisper
hath it—a member of the sturdy Presbyterian’s
family was placed under a deep and lasting obli-
gation to Sir Charles Cavan Duffy—and from that
day to the hour of his death no ungenerous word
in connection with Roman Catholicism ever passed
the Doctor’s lips. The Chinese will probably
wish to subscribe largely to the Lang Statue
Fund, as the old man was an earnest friend to the
race and succeeded in getting the first poll-tax
removed, _ out of gratitude for which some 400
Chinese, in sombre European black, accompanied
the doctor’s body to the grave.
* * *
“ M.P.” writes to Melbourne Herald
asking what would relieve an old lady suffering
from a nagging pain in her chest. We strongly
advise “M.P.” to keep away from the House for a
while.
* * *
An Adelaide paper ha 3 just heard that
statistics prove that very few criminals are re-
cruited from the ranks of married men, the vast
majority being bachelors. Then the innocent
suffer ; the married men wear the fetters.
* * *
A Melbourne weekly says that “ the
third year is the China wedding,” but does not
know why it is so called. We do : because that’s
about the time when the bride begins to heave the
crockery.
* * *
Melbourne Argus says : “ A new material
called ‘ leatherine ’ has recently been manufac-
tured in England. It can be sold at 3d. a lb., is
said to be as tough as leather, and is designed for
packing and bagging.” Recently manufactured !”
Why, the stuff has formed the staple diet of our
refreshment-rooms for the past ten years. It is
called “ rump steak,” and is designed for the pur-
pose of helping along the medical and undertaking
business
•* ' v
Miss Leah Thompson, a daughter of the
“ Leviathan ” bookmaker, has just made her
debut as a vocalist at a Melbourne concert. She
sings beautifully, and it is said that when her
father removes his household to London Miss
Leah will make her appearance on the stage.
The Ballarat local optionists, not content
with carrying the war of prohibition into the
publicans’ camp, are now crusading against
tobacco. Government is to be petitioned to reduce
the number of tobacconists’ shops, and the next
step will be to make smoking in the streets a
misdemeanour punishable by flogging and impri-
sonment. By the way, Dr. Rose, of North Mel-
bourne, a bright and shining light among the
local optionists, neither drinks nor smokes.
« *
Mistress (to applicant for a cookship) :
“ How old are you, Bridget 1 ” Bridget (with a
sigh like a lion’s yawn) : “ Ah, mam, nayther av
us will ivir see 40 agen, Oi’m thinkin.” The cook-
ship is sti ll vacant.
w * *
The Prince of Wales spoke a few remarks
lately to the members of the Christian Young
Men’s Gymnasium, and his simple, feeling obser-
vations were noted with pride by a number of
pious watertoast journals, several of which were
moved to tears. Here is a sample of the cause of
their emotion :
“ I am glad that you combine with Christian education
healthy recreation, which must, no doubt, tend to be of
the greatest benefit to the community at large, and espe-
cially to young men who are exposed to so many tempta-
tions in a great city like this.”
Then the cheers of the gymnastic young Christians
went up and shook the heavens. Wales himself
isn’t a gymnastic Christian, and his bald head
turns somersaults no longer, neither does he walk
on his hands or slog for the kingdom of heaven.
But he sympathises with the good young men
who jump, and he lends his muffled voice to the
cause, just as Carington bestows his melancholy
yawn and the wide panorama of his back teeth upon
deserving movements in New South Wales. Let
us eat and preach.
* * *
Since the break occurred in the cable
many Australian newspapers have been inventing
and publishing “cablegrams ” apparently intended
to be humorous. We have read a lot of these
alleged jokes and have noted the wonderful re-
semblance between them and the yarns which
have been traded off upon us during long and
weary years as veritable cable-messages. It is
well to have now and then a week’s leisure
wherein to marvel at one’s own credulity.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 18, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
I am told that recent events in a certain large city tend
to partially bear out Bishop Barry’s allegation that some
Australian women—l myself have met with but little
proof of the sweeping indictment alleged to have been
uttered by his lordship—are fond of liquor. Two or three
fair creatures, well-known in society, have been in the habit
of frequenting a certain fashionable restaurant and drink-
ing in the morning “ to try and get over their dreadful ner-
vousness.” The other morning a pair of these charming
persons started a little orgy, in the course of which they
severally consumed so muoh brandy that one of them had
to be carried out and sent home in a cab, while it was
found necessary by the attendants to put her friend's
head under the pump and send post-haste for the doctor.
Were I a man and had a wife who was an habitue of “ the
ladies’ room” and had a taste for “James Hennessy,” I’d
never let her out without a muzzle. It is a
shame that private drinking-shops shouid be al-
lowed to exist. Apropos, Lady Carington while
out shopping sometimes goes into a restaurant
for refreshment, but she never enterß an estab-
lishment where “drink” is sold, and therein she shows
an excellent example which should be followed by every
woman who has at heart the true interests of her sex.
Once let a woman get into her head the monstrous idea
that when she feels weary she must have alcohol, and she
is doomed for ever.
Here is a recent case of enfant terrible which happened
in a certain Sydney drawing-room that shall be nameless.
A conversation occurred between the hostess’s little
daughter and a lady friend, as follows Lady Friend :
“How is your sister in England now?” Child: “Very
well. Ma had a paper from her the other day.” L. (cor-
recting): “You should say a letter.” Child: “ But I
don’t mean a letter. It was a paper—a Christian
World.” Lady: “Oh! did they put in a paragraph
about her ? ” Child : “ Oh no ! but she always writes on
the margin, and so we hear from her for twopence! ”
This reminds me of that other guileless infant who
domiciles in the far interior of N.S.W., and whose mamma
recently gave a dance and wore thereat a new gown of
shimmering black satin. As this august form gleamed in
the doorway Young Hopeful (allowed to stay up, look on,
and criticise) screamed out shrilly : “ Hi! ma ! you look
just as if you were buttered all over ! ” Fancy that, just
as you fancied you were making “ an impression ” on your
visitors !
It is the fashion in London just now for ladies to take
their knitting or crochet to the theatre, as our great-
grandmothers did, or said they did, in the long ago.
I wonder whether the fashion will be generally accepted
out here ? The other evening a comely widow showed the
occupants of the dress-circle at Sydney Theatre Royal how
it looked, but I don’t fancy she will be ready to repeat the
experiment, although it would be really glorious fun to
make, during comic opera, articles of clothing to cover
the nakedness of the ballet and throw the same
instead of bouquets. It would be so like the average
girl who cannot put two stitches in a baby’s boot,
and who spends her time at home sucking chocolates
whilst she reads about choice young men with poetic
legs, and blonde heroines who weep crystal tears in
rose-hung boudoirs, to make her attendant swain hump a
huge bundle of wool and knitting-needles to the theatre,
so that she could toy with it between the acts ! Its a pity
this fad of “ theatre-work” doesn’t take a more useful
form than wool-twisting, since some women follow
fashion like sheep. If only some grande-dame would
commence taking her husband’s gloves or shirts, or her
own holey stockings to the opera, and would openly sew
up the rents during the intervals, a vast multitude of pin-
fixed men would arise and call her blessed.
The 12th was a social data in Sydney—Lady Carington
holding a reception at 3.30, and the “ Mercs.” annual
ball eventuating at night. As to the reception, it was
small and select—the smallest yet held—so all the dresses
were visible and the majority looked very charming in-
deed. Her Ladyship (who received on the verandah and
in the garden) wore an elegant get-up of electric-blue silk
with two loose hanging panels at either side of brown silk
checked with gold and fringed at the ends with gold and
brown. Bodice of blue, with diagonal fold of the brown
checked silk; browney-yellowy velvet bonnet, trimmed
with cream bows and brown strings ; brown veil; dark
brown boa, mastic gloves, and a moderately lengthy crim-
son en tout cas completed a costume that didn’t altogether
please me. However, I don’t suppose Lady Carington
dresses solely with a view to the admiration of yours
truly. Mrs. Admiral Fairfax was fittingly attired for a
sailor’s wife in mastic-hued canvas, with matching
collar and muff of fur; brown bonnet, ornate
with brown passementerie and brown ribbon. Miss
Dundas, dark-blue sergerette with white “ poodle ”
boa, dark-blue high straw hat, ornate dark-blue and white
silk. Mrs. Dan. O’Connor wore a handsome dress of
black lace over a rose-coloured jupe with passemen-
terie trimmings and scarves, and draperies of black silk.
Miss Carroll, a well-cut dress of crushed strawberry with
vest and side panel of white silk, high hat of maroon
straw, ornate crushed strawberry ribbon and wings. As
for the men present, Admiral Fairfax was a mass of glit-
tering gold braid. The Baron wore a fawn-coloured “ hard
hitter ” and a cut-away coat. Consul Griffin and Major
Dane went about like twin-brothers, arm-in-arm, with
glossy top-hats on. The “Vincent Vayne,” of “New
Babylon,” wore a pair of large, yellow and brown checked
■continuations, tan boots, and a red flower in his coat.
And irresistible “E.W.” and the rest of the Government
House people wore white flannels and played tennis.
There! the men of Sydney can’t say now that I never
give them a turn, can they ?
A Sydney gentleman met with an acoident re-
cently, and for a day or two he was lying at the gates of
death, while four doctors did their best to keep him
from going through. About 7 o’clock in the evening
things were just at the worst; the household was turned
upside down and utterly scared ; everybody was
demoralised, and the doctors were gathered round the
patient and awaiting results. Just then a loud knock came
to the front door and a lady entered. She was the loudest-
dressed creature in all the suburb, and on this occasion
her clothes were absolutely vociferous. There was no one
about except a visitor who was waiting in the dining-room
for news of the sufferer, and she seized him. “ I under-
stand that Dr. X is here,” she said, breathlessly, “and
I must see him instantly.” “ I am afraid that that is impos-
sible, madam,” was the reply ; “he is engaged in a con-
sultation with other medical men, and cannot possibly be
disturbed.” “ But I must see him ; the matter is absolutely
imperative, and I will be obliged if you will tell him
that I am waiting for him.” The visitor declined the
responsibility, and the lady sat down in high dudgeon.
Halfan-hour passed and nobody moved, but anyone
could have heard the woman in the loud clothes going
mad as she sat. At last she got up, trembling with indig-
nation. “ I request that you will instruct someone to in-
form Dr. X that I desire to see him instantly," she
said, with alarming sternness ; “the case will admit of no
further delay.” The unfeeling man said that he was
merely a visitor to the house, and declined to move, and
suggested that she should send for another physician,
whereupon she partially stifled her feelings for 30 minutes
more. At the end of that period she burst—figuratively
speaking; in other words, she gave up. “ Perhaps, sir,”
she observed, with tremendous dignity, “your feelings
as a gentleman will induce you to send Dr. X to me
the very instant that he can be spared from this important
matter that he is engaged upon. My poor, dear poodle is
so sick, and I want the doctor to see him without delay.”
And she left in a tremble, arising partly from rage and
partly from a carkingfear that the inflated fat beast might
have choked itself into the grave in her absence. This is
a solemn fact, as lots of people will tell you, but, ail the
same, that accomplished surgeon, Mr. X , wouldn’t
like to be accused of acting as a dog-doctor.
That unique festivity, the Spinsters’ ball—given by 30
of Sydney's fair unclaimed blessings—came off on the
13th inst at Needs' rooms, and proved that unmarried
hostesses can make a ball as big a success as anybody
else. Like the recent Bachelors’ hop, this ball was very
toney indeed, only the most noli me tangere members of
Sydney upper-tendom receiving cards of entree. Lord
and Lady Carington, Lord Bertie, the Hon. Rupert
Carington, and Mr. Wallington formed the party from
Government House, and the company numbered about
300—a great many more than the somewhat circumscribed
ball-room space could possibly carry, so that dancing was
impossible and many and pretty toilettes hadn’t a show.
Nevertheless, the ball was a success. It's not only the
dresses and the dancing that make balls “gee,” is it?
The refreshments were charmingly managed by Baumann.
The first matinee of Tessero’s French Comedy Company
happened at 2.30 on 14th inst., but, as there was a gory
football match on at the Association ground, and a
trotting-meeting at Rosehill, the Gallic performance was
very badly attended. Had there been a dog-fight at
the Zoo, I expect the Gaiety would have been positively
empty. A sprinkling of Sydney culchaw, some Press
people, and several families of small children brought to
improve their budding accent, summarised the audience.
The comedy chosen was the amusing “ Voyage de Mon-
sieur Perriehon,” wherein Mons. Blanchet in the title-
rdle gained the lion’s share of the laughter. That
“beggarly account of empty benches” must have been
very dispiriting for the actors, however, and I would like
to suggest to Tessero that, if he wants to attract the
Sydneyites to his show, he must introduce a prize-fight
(in Irish) at the rise of the curtain or a marvellous sword-
swallowing- serpent between the acts ; or else put the
ladies of his company into tights. That is never known
to fai'f'in Sydney.
Those Sydney mammas who dress their young
daughters from head to heel in shimmering satin, glitter-
ing passementerie and ostrich tips may learn with advan-
tage to themselves that two summer dresses worn by the
Princesses Victoria and Maud of Wales were simply as
follows : Of grey, with a fine thread-line check. The
bodices made in points which are laced up at the neck
with grey cord and left open at the waist to show a tight-
fitting tan-cloth waistcoat. And what guys a lot of the
Sydney mothers do make of their girls ! The other day I
saw a fat millionairess in flaring claret brocade, scarlet
bonnet, and tan boots! “carting” along her three
daughters (all under 15), and all attired in short peacock-
blue velvet dresses, with colossal improvers, which they
waggled in atrocious caricature of fhe waggle of the
loudest “ woman,” whose swagger ever offended your
eyes. Girlish simplicity ! They don’t know what it
means when they are “ more than seven.” And what a
brood of little cads are being dressed up in Eton suits—in
broad white collars (“so English, you know”) and t&ll
hats ! These horrid little prigs, becaned and begloved,
and with all the cunning of old men, ere they are 11 years
old, will probably turn out excellent matches by-and-bye
for the waggling velvet-clad maidens of nine and a-half
years.
White short complexion-falls have had a pretty good
bid for popular favour for some time, but now their race
is run, and fashion decrees that the veil must correspond
with some part of your attire, generally the head-gear.
Hence, if you wear a red hat, wear a red veil ; a blue hat,
a blue veil; a spotted hat, a spotted veil—and so on.
Apropos, spotted and coloured veils are much more in-
jurious to the eyesight than the plain white ones. Isn’t
it a pity that fashion so often tends to ruin our health ?
Mrs. Mitchell’s bal>, given at her residence, Etham,
Darling Point, on 10th inst., was a great success. The
same may be said of Dr. and Mrs. Garrett’s dance, at
Calingra, Woollahra, on 11th inst., where the prettiest
dress worn was, I think, one of bronze moire and flowered
China silk, jupe of the pompadour (pale-pink roses on an,
ivory ground), and train of bronze moire.
The N.S.W. Poultry, Pigeon, Canary, and Dog Society
hold their eleventh annual exhibition on the 18th, 19th,
20th, and 21st inst., at the Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park.
The Elite Skating Rink, Sydney, will be the scene of a
Grand Juvenile Carnival on 20th inst. On 24th inst., the
members of the Sydney Private Dramatic and Operatic
Society appear in “Trial by Jury” and “Written in
Sand,” at the New Masonic Hall, under the management
of Mr. Albert Montgomery. On 26th, the East Sydney
Rowing Club’s social happens at West’s rooms. On 28th,
Rosehill Racing Club hold another of their enjoyable and
nicely-arranged meetings. On 4th August, the English
football team meet N.S. Wales again on the Cricket
Ground, when I hope that the Cornstalks will make the
best of their very-last chance of retrieving their lost repu-
tation.
At the State Ball, held at Buckingham Palace, the
Princess of Wales wore a lovely toilette of pale-blue and
silver, with pale-blue ostrich plumes and diamond orna-
ments.
The thirteenth annual ball given by the members of
Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club commenced at 9 p.m. at
Needs’ Rooms on 12th inst., and finished at 3.30 next
morning. A more successful public ball has never coma
off, and, though in point of numbers (the attendance
totalling about 100 couples), it was not so important as
many of its predecessors, still there were quite enough
people present to fill the rooms, and waltzing with a
chance of space to rotate in was a treat after so many
overcrowded floors. Many of the dresses were very nice.
A lady lately married looked charming in electrio grey
tulle overmatching silk slip relieved with clusters of
scarlet poppies ; Louise Davenport wore a very uncom-
mon costume of cream broche and purple satin, with
hand-painted satin panels and draperies cf cream Spanish
lace, hair charmingly dressed a la Grecque, and fastened
with a pearl-dagger ; one young lady was very effective
in the club colours (white and scarlet): Beach's colours
were also worn, a bl’ck lace dress being relieved
by yellow ribbons ; very pretty also was an elephant’s
breath tulle overmatching moire slip, with clusters of
autumn leaves ; an awful gown consisted entirely of
glaring yellow, and looked like a dream of biliousness or
an apotheosis of mustard ; black silk draped with gold-
spotted net looked very well, and a mildly pretty dress
was a white lace skirt, with pink-silk sash and smocked
pink silk bodice. Callaghan provided the most delightful
refreshments that ever tempted mankind along the road
to dyspepsia,
Poor Mrs. Chippendale—the charming old lady who so
ably supported Marie de Grey when she toured the
colonies with her English Comedy Company—is dead.
The very newest colour is called “ Pompeian yellow,
but were it named according to its hue, “ pickled salmon”
would express the exact tint admirably.
A lone widow, mourning in memoriam the death of her
luvin’ husband, poetically wails in one of the papers
1 ' Dear husband, how I miss thy face
When dark’ning shades appear,
■ And long to hear thy loving voice
In evenings lone and drear.”
If that’s all the bereaved grieves about there isn’t the
charm of novelty in her sorrow, anyhow. Most wives
miss their husbands “when dark’ning shades appear,”
and those women whose hubbies are still staggering
through this vale of tears generally have the pleasure of
knowing in their “ evenings lone and drear ” that the old
man’s “loving voice” is far away in a bar attached to a
theatre. _
A recent advertisement in the S.M. Herald for a lady
help for the country concluded with the sweeping pro-
viso, “Must be willing to do anything." “Willing to
do anything ” is rather a vast order, isn’t it ?
Fanny Liddiard has gone over to Melbourne. On the
31st inst., Lord and Lady Carington, attended by the fair
and massive Hon. Rupert Carington, also leave for the
City of Wide Streets by special train, arriving in time for
the opening of the Big Show. The stream of visitors is
already beginning to flow into Melbourne, and your own
Sappho must shortly pack her other collar and comb and
brush for that town.
As Mercy Merrick, in the “ New Magdalen,” Sydney’s
old favourite, Ada Ward, wears in the second act a most
delicious costume —an eau-de-nil satin Princesse robe,
open down the front and made en train, embossed with
large, pale-pink roses and foliage, the edges of the robe
vandyked and lined with pale rose satin; front of pale
rose satin covered with cream-spotted gauze. The night
I ventured to seethe “New Magdalen,” Brian Darley’s
towering figure loomed in the d.c. I wonder what he
thought of Frederic Stanmaur's “ w T ar correspondent ” ?
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie—that charming and wicked adven
turess who fooled almost every public man throughout
Australia —has been arrested, with her husband, on the
sordid charge of defrauding several London tradesmen.
Should the case come before a jury Mrs. G.-B. will pro-
bably be found “not guilty’’—don’t you think so?—
Yours affectionately,
SAPPITO SMITH.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
Typhoid Fever.
Among the thousand ills that flesh is heir to,
typhoid fever seems at present to be claiming the
majority of victims. It is necessary to say but
little with respect to this disease, by which so
many colonials are yearly taken away. It has
formed the subject of numerous medical exhorta-
tions, and a still larger number of newspaper
articles. The disease still remains with us, and
the unfortunate part of the affair is that many
of those who fall victims, are persons who en-
deavour to comply, so far as their knowledge goes,
with the conditions of life which would ensure
immunity from it. No man can be expected to
be bis “brother’s keeper,” and, moreover, no
man can be expected to know what his neighbour
is doing. Thus the most careful and cleanly per-
son may have living next door to him someone
who is altogether regardless of the commonest re-
quirements of sanitation. Typhoid germs are
prevalent in all defective drains and sewer pipes,
and if our systems are in a low condition the
germs are easily impregnated. How many of
those among us are in a condition favorable for
the germs of disease to take effect in, is demon-
strated by the large numbers stricken with, and
those who die from, typhoid fever every week.
Why not then take every precaution by fortifying
the system with the use of Warner’s Safe Cure, so
as to render the danger of contagion almost im-
possible. In recommending this great remedy we
offer the following from grateful colonials who
speak of its efficiency :—
The Ret, William Campbell, Presbyterian
minister, of South Dunedin, N.Z ? writes, June
Cth, 188$ :—“ Warner’s Safe Cure has very often
been brought under my notice as a specific for
kidney, liver, and general debility, i know of
several instances of protracted suffering,, where a
cure has been effected through the agency of this-
medicine ”
Mil. IT. E. Sr acklock, proprietor of the South
End Foundry, Dunedin, N.Z, writes, June
?ltb. 1888 : —“For three years prior to the taking-
of Warner’s Safe Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills, I
had an attack of headache every three or four 1
days, which would last from six to twenty-four-
hours with more or less violence. I found relief
from the|prst dose. I took altogether six bottles
of Warner’s Safe Cure, and two vials of Warner’s
Safe Pills. I have not taken any for ten months,
and during that time have not had an attack.”
Mr, R. Green, keeper of the Keppel Bay Light
Ship, writes from Rockhampton, Q., June 5th,
1888 “Ten years ago my work obliged me to
pass thfe greater part of the night in an open boat
off the coast of Peru, and as a result I contracted
a very severe kidney complaint. But it was not
until two, years ago, when getting completely
drenched, that the disease became clearly manifest
to me, accompanied by inflammation of the
bladder, causing a painful cessation of urine. I
tried several remedies without permanent relief,
until last October, when I obtained Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Pills. I derived great
benefit from taking two bottles, but it was not
until I had taken twenty bottles of Warner’s Safe
Cure, and twelve vials of Warner’s Safe Pill-, that
I felt the disease was surely overcome. Two
months ago, I passed a small round substance the
size of a swan shot, and in addition I have got rid
of a large amount of sandy or gritty substance,”


TWENTY YEARS BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
J. 11. WHITE’S CIRCULAR.
WEEKLY PRICES CURRENT
ON THE
FORTHCOMING HANDICAPS,
As quoted at the principal Sporting Clubs.
This Circular will be forwarded Weekly on each
THURSDAY, Free of Charge, with all market
alterations that have occurred during the week,
receipt of application addressed to
TI Kl' COMMISSION AGENT,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Member of Victorian Club, Melbourne,
and Tattersall’s Chib, Sydney.)
Many gentlemen residing in the country have
written complaining that they often cannot obtain
reliable market quotations, without the trouble of
sending weekly to Sydney or Melbourne for in-
formation.
This circular will be most carefully compiled
each week, and will give reliable information of
the prices quoted at the Victorian and Tattersall’s
Clubs.
Having been before the public as a Turf Com-
mission Agent for the last Twenty Years, and
being a member of all the principal Sporting
Clubs, gentlemen will have their commissions
executed with fidelity and dispatch on receipt of
their favours, at a commission of 5 per cent. on
winnings only.
All Prices are subject to Met Alterations,
THE ROSEHILL CUP.
500 Sots.
To be Run for on Wednesday, September 1.2,1888.
One and a-half miles. 91 subscribers.
From 20 to 1 on the held.
HfflESßlffl GRAND HANDICAP.
One and a-half miles. Run Saturday, Sept. 15.
From 20 to 100 to 1 on the field.
DOUBLE EVENT—
ROSEHILL CUP A HAWKECBURT HANDICAP.
1000 to If (mixed).
METROPOLITAN STAKES.
Two miles. Run 25th September.
From 15 to 1 on the field.
DOUBLE EVENT—
HAWKESBURV HANDICAP & METROPOLITAN.
1000 to 5 (mixed).
CAULFIELD CUP.
One mile and a-half.
From 25 to 100 to 1 on the field.
MELBOURNE CUP.
Two miles. Run Gth November.
From 20 to 1000 to 1 on the field.
Rouble Event—Caulfsell and Melbourne Cuns,
1000 to 1 (mixed), g
DOUBLE EVENT—
MELBOURNE DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP,
5000 to 25, or 1000 to 5, or 200 to 1 (mixed).
j. H. WHITE S SPECIALITIES :
' TREBLE EVENT—£3OOO to Twenty Shillings—
Metropolitan, Caulfield Cup and Melbourne
Cup (mixed).
TREBLE EVENT— £2OOO to Twenty Shillings—
Rosehill Cup, Hawkesbury Handicap and
Metropolitan (mixed).
brting Price Commissions Executed.
PR O SP ECTUS
Of the
SIR GARNET AND HIGHLAND MARY
GOLD-MINING COMPANY,
Limited.
CROYDON, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
To be registered under the Companies’ Act.
Nominal Capital, £130,000 in 130,000 Shares of
£1 each.
30,000 Pully-paid Shares are retained as part pay-
ment for the property.
100,000 Shares to be issued to the public as fully
paid, on the following terms, viz., 3s. on
Application, 3s. on Allotment.
£130,000.
THE SHARES BEING ALL FULLY PAID
UP, NO CALLS CAN BE MADE.
£30,000 —The amount realised by the issue of the
100,000 Shares will be dealt with as follows: —
£17,500 The cash required for the purchase of the
three mines comprising the property of
the Company.
£12,500 Will be paid to the credit of the Company
as working capital, which will provide
all the required machinery and pay the
labour expenses until crushing can be
arranged—less the expenses of floating,
viz., Printing, Brokerage, etc.
£30,000
Provisional Directors :
Russell Barton, Esq. James Dove, Esq.
J. Ahearn, Esq. James Dickie, Esq.
John Wheeler, Esq., W. Monie, Esq.
J.P.
Solicitor :
W. T. A. Shorter.
Bankers :
Australian Joint Stock Bank.
Secretary (pro. tem.):
E„ H. C. Bristowe (Bristowe and Lewis), 247
George-street, Sydney.
Local Agents :
Messrs. Barker and Frew, Croydon.
Brokers :
Sydney : Messrs. SOUTAR and HO ARE,
137 Pitt-street.
Brisbane : Messrs. GROOM and STUART.
This Company is formed for the purpose of
securing the Sir Garnet P.C., Glengarry P.C.,
and Highland Mary No. 3sb., three distinct mines,
on the Caledonia and Highland Mary line of reef
at Croydon, and comprising an area of 12 men’s
ground.
The gentlemen associated with the forming of
the Company have every confidence in placing it
before their friends and the public as a sound
mining investment.
Judging from results already obtained and the
present prospects of each of the mines, there is
sufficient stone in the stopes from the 120 ft. levels
to more than return the subscribed capital, and
dividends may be expected from the very first
crushing.
The work done in each mine proves the reef to
be rich and large, between well-defined walls.
Therefore, with judicious and frugal management
and the necessary good results must
be obtained.
The subscribed working capital will be expended
in providing the necessary machinery for crushing
and working the mine, and provide for the raising
of a large body of quartz during the completion of
the machinery.
No prospecting has to be done in any way; all
the dead work necessary will be to open up the
mines and prepare the shafts for working the pro-
perty on a very much larger scale than hitherto.
The reef has been proved highly payable for over
2000 ft. along the line, and the Highland Mary No.
2 (which is recognised by everyone as one of the
most valuable mines in Queensland) is only 100 ft
off our northern boundary, while the Sir Garnet
United and the Nos. 3 and 4 Sir Garnet companies
are on our southern boundary.
This line of reef is blocked off from end to end,
and even extended blocks ; but it is expected by
many that the block shafts will have to go a
great depth before cutting the reef.
Crushings to the end of April:—
Sir Garnet P.C 549 tons, yielded 20190 z. gold.
Glengarry P.C 156 „ „ 4370 z. gold.
No. 3 S.B. Highland Mary 94 „ „ 98oz. gold.
Including surface stone ——
799 tons 25540 z. gold.
The last crushing of the Sir Garnet, taken from
the lowest level, not included in the above, and
just put through the mill, yielded 5250 z. per 100
tons.
The Highland Mary No. 1 South yielded 7610 z.
gold from 343 tons of quartz.
With such unquestionable returns it is deemed
unnecessary to give sensational assay results or
exhibit parcels of specimen stone.
A map showing the Croydon Goldfield and the
workings of this reef can been seen at the office of
the Company.
The registered office of the Company to be in
Sydney, and a local agent will be appointed at
Croydon in the interest of the shareholders in New
South Wales and Victoria.
Mr. Webster, whose report appears in this pro-
spectus, has held responsible positions as Mining
Manager at Charters Towers for several years, and
has several valuable properties under ins super-
vision at Croydon, and great confidence is felt in
his statements upon these properties.
CONTRACTS AFFECTING THE COMPANY.
The only contracts affecting, the Company are
the following
Date, 10th May, 1888.—John Angus M‘Donald,
William Warren, Francis Stimpson, and
others, called Vendors, with Alexander James
Webster as Purchaser.
Date, 12th June, 1888.—R. J. Webster, John F.
Hobbs, and Christopher H. Ingoldsby, with
Bristowe and Lewis.
R. J. Webster, John Fletcher Hobbs, and Chris-
topher Herbert Ingoldsby, with Russell Bar-
ton and James Dickie.
Copies of these documents can be seen at the
office of the Company’s Solicitor.
REPORT by ALEX. J. WEBSTER, Mining
Manager, Croydon, April 28, 1888.
The Sir Garnet P.C. is situated on the south
end of the Highland Mary line of reef, and con-
sists of an area of 200 ft. along the line of reef by
400 ft. in width. 549 tons already crushed from
this claim has yielded 20190 z. of gold, averaging a
little over 3oz. 13dwt. to the ton.
Work Done.—An underlie shaft has been sunk
a depth, from the outcrop, of 100 ft., the reef vary-
ing in size from lOin. to 2ft. Gin. in thickness.
This claim has not been worked to advantage
through want of proper system in working.
The Glengarry P.C. adjoins the Sir Garnet,
and has the samp area. The greatest depth ob-
tained on the underlie is 120 ft. There was an
early crushing of 156 tons, which yielded 4370 z.
of and another crushing lately, of 370 tons,
which yielded 7650 z. of gold, making, from the
two crushings, a total of 12020 z of gold.
The reef varies from 2ft. to 3ft. 6in. thick of
clean quartz.
No. 3 S.B. Highland Mary adjoins the Glen-
farry, and has also an area of 200 ft. by 400 ft.
'his claim has been proved from the surface, by
an underlie shaft of 130 ft., carrying a splendid
reef, measuring from 2ft. to 4ft. in thickness, the
whole length of the underlie workings. The first
crushing of 91 tons yielded 98oz. of gold ; 150 tons
now awaiting crushing at the mill looks like 2oz.
The total area of the three (3) claims is 600 ft. by
400 ft. The total quantity of quartz crushed, viz.,
1263 tons, has yielded 3844 oz. of gold, worth £3
per ounce.
Averaging the reef in the three claims, as far as
the ground is proved by the underlie workings,
the body of quartz will be fully 2ft. 6in.; but say
2ft. thick, and by a depth of 100 ft. by 600 ft. along
the line of reef, which is already proved beyond
that depth. From this depth to the surface 6000
tons of quartz should be raised, and average say
2ozs. to the ton (considerably below the average
yield already obtained); this would give 12,0000 z.
of gold, or £36,000 pounds sterling.
These claims, under the management of an ex-
perienced mining manager, should give this out-
put of 6000 tons —£36,000 worth of gold—in 13 or
14 months.
The first and most important work to be done is
to erect a substantial brace and connect it with the
main underlie shaft, with a double tram-road from
the brace to the lowest depths. This brace and
main underlie shaft would command the working
of the three (3) claims from peg to peg, and the
head work of sinking and driving levels could
always be continued without interfering with the
other workings.
I can, therefore, safely recommend the property,
and, if worked systematically, the purchase-money
and expenses should be cleared off in 14 months
from the quartz in the stopes at the present depth.
ALEX. J. WEBSTER,
Mining Manager, Croydon.
HIGHLAND MARY AND CALEDONIA CRUSHINGS.
A Sydney syndicate has very recently purchased
the Highland Mary No. 2 South (300 ft. by 400 ft.)
for the sum of £12,000. This property is distant
only 100 ft. from the northern boundary of the
No. 3B Highland Mary.
The following is an extract from the Croydon
Golden Age, dated February 25, 1888
“The Highland Mary No. 3 S.B Some distance
from the cap of the reef a straight shaft was sunk
which cut the reef at 30ft. The reef has been sunk
on the underlie for 27ft. and is now 2ft. 6in. thick
in the bottom of the shaft.
“The stone is estimated to yield over 2oz.
“The Glengarry P.C.—The reef in the bottom
of the underlie shaft is 2ft. 6in, thick, showing
good gold; but to work it more economically a
straight shaft is now being put down at some
distance from the cap of the reef.
“The Sir Garnet F.C. is the next claim to the
Glengarry. They are on a splendid shoot of stone
and this week completed a crushing of 2230 z. from
40 tons of stone. They have another 100 tons to
stope of the same quality, which will be at grass
in five weeks. At the bottom of the underlie
shaft, 100 ft. from the cap, the reef is from 2ft. to
2ft. 6in. thick of nearly 7oz. stone.”
REPORT by W. H. BARKER, Esq., Croydon.
Sydney, May 15th, 1888.
The Sir Garnet P.C. and the Glengarry P.C. Gold Mines,
Croydon.—l know these properties well. They are un-
doubtedly two of the best properties on the field- the reef
being rich, true and unbroken, and the walls clean and
well-defined. When I last inspected the properties there
were thousands of tons of stone in sight.
WM. H. BARKER.
REPORT by P. J. MANGAN.
Croydon, June 11th, 1888.
In accordance with your written request, I have made a
careful inspection of the mines named in your note—viz.,
Sir Garnet P.C., “ Glengarry,” and No. 3 B South High-
land Mary, and beg to Bubmit the following report there-
on, together with sketch plan :
“ The Sir Garnet, area 200 ft. x 400 ft., and situated on
the Highland Mary line of reef, and should have been
known as No. sof that celebrated line. This mine has
been worked from the outcrop to a depth of nearly 35ft.
on the underlie by surface cuttings, from which 378 tens
of stone were crushed, yielding 10320 z. of gold. A shaft
was then sunk 40ft. from the cutting, which bottomed at
a depth of 27ft.; from this straight shaft an underlie was
put down a further depth of 25ft., at which point levels
were put in north and south, said levels being about 100 ft.
deep from the outcrop. Nineteen and a half tons of stone
crushed from this depth gave a return of 160 oz. gold,
assay value £3 os. lOd. per oz., an increase in quality as in
quantity—the surface stone assaying £2 14s. 6d. Thirty-
five feet from this shaft another shaft has been sunk,
owing principally to the fact that the air in the mine was
bad, and as a means of ventilation. This shaft is 32ft.
deep and is connected by a level with the underlie shaft.
The ground has been stoped from this level to within about
12ft. of the surface cutting.
The face of stone, at the time of my visit, averaging
22in„ with a clay dig over the reef, which, together with
the soft, pliable nature of the rock, renders it a very easily
worked mine. Five hundred and nine (509) tons have been
crushed from this claim for a yield of eighteen hundred
and ninety (1890) ounces. There is about 40 tons of stone
at grass.
The Glengarry area is 200 x 400. This mine has been
proved to a depth of 134 ft. from the outcrop of the reef,
and has two shafts and several surface cuttings. In this
claim there is a splendid reef all along the low level,
averaging 3ft. in width, while in the stopes and towards
the surface the quartz is being taken out without having
to remove any mullock whatever, and will fully average
2ft. in thickness, and, like the Sir Garnet, having a soft
clay seam over the quartz, makes it easy ground to work ;
and, judging by the size of reef in surface cuttings ex-
posed to view, and the stone in sight in the levels and
stopes, the output of stone from this claim should equal
that of any mine in Croydon. There has been 529 tons of
stone crushed from the claim for a yield of_l3B7oz. gold,
and has at present 40 tons of stone at grass.
No. 3. B South Highland Mary, 200 ft. x 400 ft., joins the
Glengarry and has two shafts—one 12ft. and one 30ft.,
connected by underlie—sunk to a depth of 120 ft. from the
outcrop. The stone in this claim, though equal in size to
the Glengarry, having an average width of fully 2ft., was
comparatively poor on the surface and down to 80ft. on
the underlie ; since that depth, and down to the present,
the stone has improved in quality. One hundred and
forty-three tons of stone have been crushed from this
claim for a yield of 1540 z.
The three mining claims described in the above form a
block, in area 600 ft. x 400 ft., having a frontage of 600 ft.
by a depth of 400 ft. and could be worked from one cen-
trally situated shaft, or an underlie shaft from surface
would work the whole block of ground. The above-
mentioned mining claims I consider to be, taken together,
one of the best mining properties on Croydon, and will be
at once dividend paying. The value of this property
may be estimated to some extent by the fact of there
being blocks and extended blocks on it. At this date
there is about 100 tons of ore at grass.
Yours obediently,
P. J. MANGAN,
Mining Manager.
To Messrs. Brisfowe and Lewis, Sydney
N
E WTON AND L A MB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
3Sf
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
J^RA WING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des'gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
—*l
E
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish'ng the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
EE3E
D
RAWING ROOM CABI
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFOE&TES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RUNISCH, L. NEUPELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Veby Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHaIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
s
ti
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
T> ED STEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
|HEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, ■ from
u 13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,;
Chests of Drawers, from 10?.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
furniture and pianoforte
wa rehou semen,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPTtTNO & O’CONNELL STREETS.


Amusements,
R
OYAB STANDARD THEATRE,
UNDOUBTED SUCCESS
of
LIFE FOR LIFE. LIFE FOR LIFE.
LIFE FOR LIFE LIFE FOR LIFE.
LIFE FOR LIFE. LIFE FOR LIFE.
Popular Prices, 35., 25., and Is.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
c
RITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT’S
very popular and powerful
COMEDY COMPANY
at the above
ELEGANT and FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING
(Until Further Notice),
VICE VERSA and TURNED UP.
ADMISSION-55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager —Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
NEW ARTISTS.
WAITING FOR THE TRAIN.
EVERY EVENING,
THE WONDERFUL MUSICAL KINGS,
FIELDS »nd HANSON
AND THE SLEIGH BELLS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
EXTRAORDINARY NOVELTIES TO FOLLOW.
AC ADE M Y O F MUS I C.
L ss e and Man asc r, F. E lfiscocks
SYDNEY TAKEN BY STORM
Hundreds unabl i to gain admission nightly to
witness the most UNIQUE AND REFINED
ENTERTAINMENT IN EXISTENCE.
HISCOCK’S and FR'EDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
in conjunction with
HISCOCKS FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. _ The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
TO NIGHT, TO NIGHT.
Reappearance of
R, J. AGINTON, iheKingof the Rollers.
EVERY EVENING, at 9 pan.,
until further notice
Mr. AGfNTON claims the title
CHAMPION TRICK and FANCY SKATER
OF THE WORLD.
’Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink. ... , „ ,
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-atreet, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, la.
|>OTANY 1 BOTANY ! BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
■Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductor Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free
FRANK SMITH
Director.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
U COMPANY. j
Tmf^OTO“TEITOLIDAY.I&SOKT.
"-sasr - j&j?
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday. ,
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children g TOP FOR D , Sub Manager.
ON D I
AQUARIUM.
istralia. in© iamuuo vj 4-/-*
AY conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
ly ’ Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
ee to Visitors.
men daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
• Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
HARRY stegga,
ITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.:—
Arts Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
pins in the following makes - Cashmere,
ambVwool, Indian Gauze, Merino Natural
ainD s w V A f i) r . Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic P Normal Wools (registered make).
vercoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns Patrol
Za &c Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
f Bags plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs m
g Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention,
Bavasost ahd Dumiho-Room Pnovreiß.
Amusement*.
HER MAJESTY’S , THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
A L.
Theatre roy
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
TAKEN FROM LIFE
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
Prloes as usual. Tickets for all parts at East way's
N
THE
THE
THE
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessee, Mr. H. E. Werner.
General Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS OF
MISS ADA WARD
In her Premier Impersonation
woman in red 1 The Greatest Production
WOMAN IN RED r of the
WOMAN IN RED J SEASON.
ADMISSION-4s. 35., 25., Is.
Next Production, see Daily Papers.
ASHEIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thurbday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events :
August) 4 —The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
G
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
THE MOST FAHSIONABLK RINK IN SYDNEY.
Still Another Grand Success.
0 1 >on every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE:
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
~ ~ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE. —The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole
Business Announcements.
. O? AT. I,
,n v ,Vi ok Er t 3 .
***sss} o ?«'%■> v
B
«$&??
iaZ&isf VpS&SK
x D r= t -§°3!n®
fry? a 'Ks* ( >l~9&'vFL
7 °ato am a
EWARE OF QUACKS.
Nature is her own restorer, aided by discretion
and prudence, and these points are clearly shown
and demonstrated to us by the study of Phrenology
and Physiology. The most valuable contribution
to this subject is the present work from the pen
of Professor O. S. Fowler, who is acknowledged
by all classes as the most distinguished exponent
now living of the science of Phrenology and the
mutual relations of the sexes. He has been con-
sulted by thousands of persons whose ignorance
of the great laws which govern the sexes has in-
volved them in trouble, and we may safely assert
that but few of those who have faithfully followed
his teachings have failed to find relief. His long
and intelligent observation of human nature, his
intimate acquaintance with the various ailments
of which he treats, his vast professional learning
and experience, and his recognised position as
a teacher and a lecturer give him a right to speak
with authority,
Full particulars free on application to “ Medi-
cus,” P.O. Box 570, Sydney.
EIL MACK AY Is NOT aathorlsedto
Onnvassfor Thb Buiabtin,
THE
Pi UM”
Razor.
THE
‘ plum ’
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. 1 rice—Single Razor, 10s. od.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
gW Nine Haircuttera always Employed ! r
08 0 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THH BRIGHTON OB 1 JST.B-W.
AT ehe CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechcrcM
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and. Picnic Parties provided. Tablt
deHOte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make h«
visitors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mfrs. KBLMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY,
ytoffiro
3
• «
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
ID TIMS OE PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COUNT
o
NE HUNDRED USEFUL THINGS
At
Reasonable Prices.
Arrowroot ... lb. 0
Cornflour ... lb. 0
Maizena ... lb. 0
Cuttard Powders
box 0
Blanc Mange
Powders box 0
Isinglass pkt. 0
Gelatine pkt. 0
Pudding Powders
pkt. 0
Split Peas lb. 0
Green Peas lb. 0
Peas Meal tin 0
Pearl Barley
Sago
Tapioca
Rice, best,
bag each 1
Househhold Ren-
nets, tin 1
Macaroni ... lb. 1
Mixed Spice pkt. 0
Ginger, large jar 2
Essences, bot. sd.
and 0
Parisian Coffee,
b. tin 1
Pure Cocoa ... tin 1
Coffee Essence,
bot. 1
Raisins ... lb. 0
Currants ... lb. 0
lb. 0
lb. 0
lb. 0
71b.
Lemon Peel... lb. 0 10
Carraways ... lb.
French Capers,
bot. 0
Lea and Perrin’s
Sauce 1
Pickles ... bot. 0
Skate, fresh tin 0
Mackerel, fresh
tin 0
Halibut, fresh tin 0
Malt Vinegar bot. 0
White Pepper lb. 1
Mustard lb. tin 1
Table Salt ... jar 0
.Jam, 31b. glass jar 2
Marmalade ... tin 0
Golden Syrup,
141 b. tin 3
Germea pkt. 1
Oatmeal, 71b. bag,
Is. and 1
Tartaric Acid lb. 2
Cream Tartar lb. 1
Baking Soda lb. 0
Hops, best ... lb. 1
Epsom Salts... lb. 0
1 0
Sena
Sulphur
Saltpetre
Castor Oil
Salad Oil
pkt. 0
... lb. 0
... lb. 0
..bot. 0
..bot. 0
Knife Polish .. .tin 0
Poultry Egg Food
lb. pkt. 1 9
St. Jacob’s Oil bot. 2 3
Citrate Magnesia
bot. 0 10
s. d.
Fluid Magnesia
bot. 1 0
Insecticide tin 0 10
Pills box
10 quires Ruled
Note Paper and
250 envelopes
Pens box, 2|d..
4d., 6d. and 1
Ink doz. bot. 0
Marking Ink bob 1
Rep’ring Cement
bot. 0
Tobacco, lb., 3s.
3d., 3s. 4d., and 3
Do. twist, lb., 4s.
and 5
Do. Gold Leaf, lb. 5
Wax Matches,
gross 3
Fire-lighters, 50 in
box 0
Candles, lb., 6d.
and 0
Knifeboards,
Is. and 1
Blacking,
doz. cakes 0
Blacking Brushes,
set 2
Washing Soda, lb. 0
Kerosene Soap,
311 b. bar 1
Colman’s Starch,
pkt. 1
Linen Gloss, pkt. 0
Wire Clothes
Lines, each
Metal Clothes
pegs, doz.
Brooms, bass each
Do. Millet each
Do. Hair each
Mops each
Scrubs, large, 6d.
and
Sponges Is. and
Chamois Leathers
9d. and
Lucca Oil bot.
Axes, American
Galvanised Buc-
kets from
Washboards, solid
zinc
Fry Pans
Gridirons double
Egg-beaters, pa-
tent
Masher and
Strainer ...
Tin-openers
Corkscrews, pa-
tent
Washing Tubs,
16in., 2s. 6d. ;
18, 3s. ; 20, 3s.
9d. ; 22, 4s (id. ;
24, ss. ; 26, 6s.
3d. ; 28, 7s. 6d.
1 0
2 0
2 0
1 0
2 6
0 10
0 10
1 0
Sole Agent in New South Wales for the Bonus
War and Tea Company, who give very large
oonuses of Sugar with their Teas by the pound or
"PRICE LISTS MAILED FREE ON AP-
PLICATION. ASKEW and CO., 80 Oxford-
sbreeb, Sydney.
GRAND HOTEL,
CORNER of MARY and MARKET-STREET
BRISBANE.
(Opposite A.U.S.N. Wharf.)
D. COSGROVE, Proprietress.
(Late of Lennon’s Hotel.)
THIS Hotel having passed under a new manage-
ment, great improvements have been made,
making this one of the Finest Hotels in the
Colonies. Private Suites for Families.
Ladies’ Drawing-rooms, Gentlemen’s Reading
and Smoking-rooms, Billiards, Night Porter.
Hotel Porter waits for all boats.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
supervision of a Continental Chef.
FITZROY HOTEL,
BAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra oharge.
Stood Stabling. Every accommodation.
TAR. WILLIAMSON- Proprleta’-
rjio
RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS,
OTHERS.
AND
<£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, Ac.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JjlOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera. Apply,
Bulletin Oflßre
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mo'i Baking Powders, driest Square She,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILS! OILS. PERSIAN SHERBET,
&0., &0.
STEAM WORKS :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO
SYDNEY.


THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
Tee Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literarj
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result*of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has eve'' seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
woalth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
ntelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
SHREWDNESS & ABILITY.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters so freely advertised
;n all the papers, secular and religious, are having a large
sale, and arc supplanting all other medicines. There is
no denying the virtues of the Hop plant, and the pro-
prietors of these Bitters have shown great shrewdness
and ability in compounding a Bitters, whose virtues are
so palpable to every one’s observation.—“ Examiner and
Chronicle.”
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King. street.*
William’s Australian Insectioide is death to all lnseots.
Simple in application-sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
MAINE NEWS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, which are advertised
in our columns, are a sure cure for ague, biliousness and
kidney complaints. Those who use them say they cannot
be too highly recommended. Those afflicted should give
them a fair trial, and will become thereby enthusias-
tic in the praise of their curative qualities.—“ Portland
Argus.”
The Progress of New South Wales. —At present
there are 1407 miles of railway in operation ; there are
11,639 miles of telegraph wire ; 425 State Schools, with
1161 Teachers. These statistics, though of a miscel-
laneous charaeter, testify to the growth and vigour of
this youthful colony. It is easy to understand amid so
many working classes and growing children, how valu-
able and useful a medicine is which possesses the pro-
perty of checking and curing those diseases peculiar to
New South Wales itself or incidental to life generally.
This however is the characteristic of Freeman’s Original
Chlorodyne, and has secured for it in New South Wales
a reputation of the highest character. No other medi-
cine has obtained a similar position in any other colony
and no colonists have spoken in higher praise of the
virtue of Freeman’s Chlorodyne than the readents, the
manufacturers, the shepherds, and the miners of New
Zealand. Its value in the Nursery and in Female Com-
plaints can scarcely be over-estimated. —Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies, insist upon having “Free-
man’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
The great value of Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver
Oil with Hypopiiosphites in Wasting Diseases is shown
by the accompanying statement from D. C. Freeman
Sydney, Australia“ Having been a great sufferer from
pulmonary attacks, and gradually wasting away for the past
two years, it affords me great pleasure to testify that the
above medicine has given me great relief, and cheerfully
recommend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself.
In addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take.”
Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.
E.C.ELEY
g>
%
<b
O
-
9?
A
A
9
o
V
s
&
9
V
O
$
<5
o
:
S''
:\
V
9
?*
9
9
9
o
&
9
9
9“
\ x
<s>
9
r\
O
y
9
<b
9
x
0
O
v
<$
V
9
9
9
O
390# GEORGE S T
BYDKTBY.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per cent. I For 1 year .. 6 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per cent. | For 3 months.. 3 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Offices— lo, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
tea and eastern merchants,
MO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
"XT'.
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
The Best Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Alta Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Including Maohlnerv. ImnnviMt
Lgajhere, So. i and of the following Speolal Lines i-PKBMhmgCEOB^JATONPOHM^Mirgi^gji^^
Business Announcement!„
lasdelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twj
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
lng all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,-1 have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many yeai\3 been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
„ “ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
JOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW'S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering.from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
~n . _ ._ , “ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“)Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P,
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STKANri
BITTERS.
Professor Anderson Stuart, of Sydney
University, condemns in unmeasured terms the
system of compelling school-children to prepare
lessons at home in the evenings.
The Dean of Chichester, lecturing recently
on the progressive nature of man, said : “ Look
at the ass, he is always the same. You’ll never
see a more perfect ass than you see at present.”
Truth is mighty and will leak out at times,
even in a Stock Exchange. A sneak-thief was
about to relieve a certain broker of his handker-
chief the other day when a brother “ bull ” drew
his attention to what was going on. “ Never
mind,” observed the broker, good-humOredly ;
“ we all have to begin in a small way down here.”
—Exchange.
It may not be generally known that
David, King of Israel, was for a short time
French Consul at Bremen. The Psalmist, how-
ever, did not draw any salary, and he was shortly
discharged. After the revolution of 1848,- Lamar-
tine entered in his note-book a long list of deserv-
ing Republicans who were to have suitable billets,
and he also made a hasty entry about “David”
to remind him to look up a historical passage in
IL Samuel with which to illustrate some of his
writings. The names somehow got mixed up, and
“ Citizen David ” was gazetted as a Consul. When
the mistake was discovered a fresh notice was
hurriedly published stating that “Citizen
was appointed Consul at Bremen in lieu of Citizen
David, deceased,” and for a long time nobody but
Lamartine himself knew who the very much de-
ceased “ Citizen David ” was.
Dear Bulletin, —Your articles which are
cribbed at home and re-cribbed here are just what
you ought to be proud of. What wine is better
than Madeira ? What sherry (among the browns)
is more comforting than East Indian ? Next, are
they worth a continental until they have been
carried round the Cape and the Horn? Ditto
Jamaica rum, which is mine. SdOTTY W.
What delightful yarns the returned colonist
can tell! Bishop Moorhouse recently informed a
congregation that farmers in the Australian bush
read Tyndal and Huxley, Strauss and Herbert
Spencer. What rubbish ! We defer to his Grace
in matters of theology only. The only science the
average “cocky” cares to read of is that ex-
pounded by Beach and Larry Foley, and his ideas
of social statics are limited to the threshing-
machine and the Shire Council.
“Do you know,” said Artemus Ward,
after reading a laughable par. in London Punch
one day, “ 1 think the insertion of an occasional
joke rather livens up a comic paper.” Someone
on the S.M. Herald evidently thinks the same,
for he livened up the columns of that intensely
coniic paper the other day by observing that “ the
dead body of an Irishman, name unknown,” had
been found in the bush. This cantankerous corpse,
beyond admitting its nationality, refused to give
any further information to the Herald reporter.
The Herald, was, therefore, unable to state
whether the disappointing defunct was a staunch
Home Ruler or a bhoy who believed in “ Bloody ”
Balfour.


Downright Cruelty.
To permit yourself and family to
“ Suffer! . , ■,
With sickness when it can be prevented and
cured so easily with
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters ! ! !
Having experienced a great deal of
“ Trouble !” from indigestion, so much so that
I came near losing my
Life! „ r i
My trouble always came after eating any food :
However light
And digestible. _ ;
For two or three hours at a time I had to go
through the most
Excruciating pains,
“ And the only way I ever got
“Relief ~J
Was by throwing up all my stomach contained.
No one can conceive the pains that 1 had to go
th ‘‘°l^as U taken !” “ So that for three weeks I lay
in bed and
Gould eat nothing ! , ~ , .
My sufferings were so bad that I called two
doctors to give me something that would suop the
pain, their
Efforts were no good to me.
I heard a good deal „
“About your Dr. Soules American Hop
Bitters ! and determined to try them.
Got a bottle-in four hours I took the con
tents of
Nex? dly I was out of bed, and have not seen a
“Sick!”
Hour, from the same cause since.
I have recommended it to hundreds of others.
You have no such ~, ,\ iiot-nn
“Advocate as I am.”-Geo. Kendall, Allston,
Boston, Mass. . -i 01 >B3
Columbus Advocate, lexas, P g’ ou l e ’g
Dear Editor :-I. have tried your Dr. Soums
American Hop Bitters, and fmd X j
for any compUtot. The bert m.
used in my family. n ‘
genuine without a bunch blown
on the white label, and D f r ‘yjie po : sonous
in the bottle. BbyTABK of all the vue 1
stuff in q (3e to imitate the a* ove.
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS!
The <o\<T:am:i> cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
LICHTITEB dz CO ,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STKEET, SYUNEY, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST, BRISBANE.
Business Announcements.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers EITZ*
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Di.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted li
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he under fc kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spbbr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
TATTERSALL’S
IOHHE CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“Evening News." Address, “TattersalTs," oare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain* its Prestige and stands pre-eminent amon
the hosts of other brands as
THB BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law againit
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLARBNOE-STRBBT.
CHID. GSDs
We ha?e Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments ooming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
BRUJfTO ~N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FL( )UR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edward Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Street.
jy R. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
for all Nervous Diseases; price, including post-
age, 6d. in stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
and the Dootor will tell you at onoe whether your
case is ourable or not. Address—
DR, IRIOEI^IRIDS,
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS OUT’
“As I have said, the capitalists are just beginning
to find us out, and now is the time for those who
wish to be first. Nor is it to large capitalists only
that we offer a wide and profitable field. A large
capitalist may do well anywhere if he has the wit,
BUT THERE ARE NOT MANY PARTS of the World which
hold out snch inducement to the small capital-
ist.” (Extract from Sir N. F. Broome’s speech on
West Australia.)
A grand investment is now offered, to the Small
Capitalist in the
CARLTON ESTATE,
At Perth, the capital city of West Australia,
Large blocks, having from 280 ft. frontage, with
big depths, from £2O each. Ten per cent, deposit.
Balance extending over 3 years. Torrens’ Title.
Purchasers can pay off at any time, and receive
deeds (guaranteed at £2 ss. each) without delay.
The Carlton Estate, from its excellent position,
must greatly increase in VALUE. It is only 1
miles from the city. The railway to Albany pass
by. Bays water Station is handy, and the Esta
fronts the Government road from Perth to Gu
ford. The land is high; suitable for either bu
ing or garden purposes. It is, indeed, the cheapes
estate yet placed on the market. Compare it with
others and judge. Government maps, drawn to
scale, showing the exact position of the property,
may be consulted at the office of the Company. A
few corner sites still available. Inquiry costs
nothing. On application marked plans, with
reliable information, will be forwarded to any
address. THE INTERCOLONIAL INVEST-
MENT COMPANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney. (Registered under the Companies’
Act.)
W. J. DOUGLAS, Secretary.
T> RITTENBERG &
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
The Idol of the Army.
The day before I left London, the Queen, after
her accustomed habit of shirking the duties of
State, had ordered the Prince of Wales to hold a
levee in her name at St. James’s. A crowd of
about 20,000 people gathered in Pall Mall, around
Marlborough House, and in the park near the
palace, to see the Prince of Wales drive to the
levee. About 2 o’clock the gates of Marlborough
House were thrown open and the Life Guards Band
on horseback, rode out, rending the heavens with
stupendous blasts. The populace was charged by
the police and packed against the house. Then
the Guards clattered out in a long line, and in all
their gorgeous glitter, riding four abreast.
The crowd began to guy. The Prince was
•familiarly referred to by a name that was nasty
enough to cause a canal boatman to blush with
vivid embarrassment. The most ribald comments
were shouted from one section of the crowd to the
other, and received with roars of laughter. After
a time, a huge coach, gilded like a circus band-
waggon, with four powdered and silken-clad
coachmen and a similar number of footmen, rolled
into view. It was the sort of an equipage that
Barnum would consider second-class in one of his
street-parades. Perched on a seat within was a
smallish, blonde man, who bowed with tremendous
dignity at every turn of the wheels. To whom
did he bow ? The scoffing crowd leered in his
face. There was not the vestige of a cheer.
Compare this scene with one I witnessed this
morning. The Crown Prince of Germany —a
surly, savage, and revengeful man of less than 30
years —strode from the doorway of his palace, and
moodily descended the steps. A magnificent
black horse stood before the door. Two officers
sat on their horses a hundred yards in the rear.
No gilded circus-chariot for this Prince. He is
not the hero of the boudoir, the magnate of a
theatre-box, or the autocratic ruler of a set of
frivolous society women like his uncle, the Crown
Prince of Great Britain. The heir of a throne,
then held by a dying monarch, stood by his horse’s
head a moment, with knitted brows, trying to
button the gauntlet-strap of his left glove. It
would not come in place, and, with a muttered
execration, he ripped the gauntlet half off. His
left hand is slightly crippled. Then Prince Wil-
liam jumped into his saddle. He has the face of
a born soldier. His mother is a Guelph, his father
a Hohenzollern. It is the same cross of royal
blood that produced Frederick the Great. This
direct descendant of that rugged old warrior looks
every inch a soldier, from his broad shoulders and
deep chest, down to his clean, greyhound-like
flanks and long legs. He never smiles. Life is a
serious thing to him. The implacable hatred he
feels for the English extends even to his own
mother. He is the idol of the greatest army on
earth. As he sat on his horse this morning he
was a picture. He raised his head and looked
about. What a sight it was ! In every direction
people were running toward the palace, bare-
headed and eager. As far as the eye could see
down the Linden, citizens ran out of the side-
streets and shops and stood in the gutters to see
the future Emperor pass. Every vehicle stopped,
and many of the coachmen, sat with their hats in
their hands. The Prince spoke to his horse, and
the animal started off on an easy canter, while the
two officers followed him at a distance. It did
not need a gilded circus-coach in this case to ex-
oite enthusiasm. The people sent up cheer after
cheer as the gloomy young Emperor in embryo
cantered out to visit his invalid sovereign in the
palace at Charlottenburg.
There is a difference in cheers. The perfunctory
salute of ordinary life cannot be compared to the
wild enthusiasm that greeted the German Crown
Prince. He is booked to make a stir in the world,
and he believes as thoroughly as ever his grand-
father did of himself that he embodies all that is
great in mankind. More than this, several million
soldiers believe it, too. The recent addition to
the army of 700,000 men, a rattling big army in
itself, places the fighting strength of Germany—
with all her reserves called out, including the
Landwehr—at nearly 6,000,000 men. This tops
the armies of Russia, Austria, or France by a
million or more, respectively. The power of the
Emperor of Germany, with the big war party at
his back, is supreme, and every man in the ranks
worships the coming Kaiser, the present young and
ambitious prince. What King William did in 1866
and 1871 with Austria and France, when his actual
forces fell below a million, will pass into history
as small military operations compared to the pos-
sibilities which the accession of this Prince to the
throne suggests. Every officer I meet in Germany
talks with set lips and thoughtful eyes of the
coming Emperor; no one pays any heed to the
peace-loving Frederick, who is struggling along
pathetically against the ravages of his disease.
Frederick’s English wife is far more unpopular
here than her royal mother of Great Britain. She
wishes to rule, and the Germans will not stand
petticoat sovereignty. In appearance the Em-
press Victoria of Germany is the picture of her
mother, being fat and red-faced. She is intensely
eager to make herself felt in matters of state, but
she lacks skill and tact. The row that is just now j
turning Berlin topsy-turvey, for instance, is due
to her British pugnacity, combined with a lack of
intelligence that would be remarkable in any one
but a reigning queen. For some reason the Queen
of England has taken up a tribe of petty German
princelings, known among the “hupper” circles
of London as “ those wretched Battenberg brats.”
The Battenbergs are numerous in various, devious,
and obscure ways Henry—a gentleman who
looks as though designed by his creator to stand
on a soft mat with a curling-iron in one hand and
a cup of tea in the other—was married in 1885 to
Beatrice, the youngest daughter of Victoria, who
is now the Princess Henry of Battenberg, and
weighs 220 lbs. Henry is his mother-in-law’s pet
Battenberg. The Empress of Germany, carried
away by a slavish desire for imitation, also wants
a little Battenberg son-in law, and hence she
wishes to marry Alexander of that ilk to her
daughter Victoria. But she won’t. Bismarck
“A NOD’S AS GOOD AS A WINK,” &c.
“Another horse has been fitted with spectacles. The restoration of its
ability to see distinctly is said to have increased the animal's value more than
£20. ” — Exchange.
objects. Finis. Before the old Kaiser died he
specifically and earnestly asserted that his grand-
daughter “ should never marry that rebel ” Alex-
ander of Battenberg. Before the good old king
had been in his tomb three weeks the Empress
rushed forward, and insisted upon having her
way. Bismarck —the most loyal and loving of
subjects—made the single observation that the
dead king opposed the match, and hence it was
not to be thought of. He was overruled and his
objections pooh-poohed by the Empress, to the
amazement of the whole Empire. “The English-
woman,” as the Crown Prince always calls his
mother, insisted on having her way. The Iron
Chancellor, who had fought nations all his life,
refused to fight a woman, and returning to his
home sent in his ultimatum. Bismarck’s con-
tempt for the Empress has been as undisguised as
her dislike for him. She had forced an issue. He
showed conclusively that the marriage would bring
about trouble with Russia that would end in war,
and he finished by saying that if he did not have
his way he would resign. It was a struggle for
the guidance of the Empire, and a Guelph was
pitted against a Bismarck ! How the people rose
and howled for the much-abused old Chancellor
when he threatened to resign ! The clamour
smote the Emperor’s ear in a fashion that ad-
mitted of no denial, and the Empress went to the
wall. The first and staunchest congratulator of the
Chancellor was the Crown Prince. No man in
Germany felt more jubilant and triumphant over
the discomfiture of the Empress than her heavy-
browed and brooding son. , . ,
“ What a hubbub Napoleon the Great would
have created,” said an Englishman, the other
night at dinner, “if he had been backed by the
army that will follow Prince Williams sword
when he ascends the throne !” )(
“ Napoleon’s very name will be forgotten, said
the military host, “ when the future historian re-
views the closing years of the nineteenth century.
“ As regards Germany, you mean ? ”
“No. The whole of Europe.”
S.F. Paper.
The late Mr. Gavin Gibson, leather mer-
chant, of Melbourne, left £115,884. There is
nothing like leather. , . ,
The ferocious tribes of Warwick (Q.) have
been riotously building a town hall for some
time past, and they have put a large square tower
at one side of it. But a Brisbane paper went and
stated that this latter elevation was constructed
so that the councillors could climb up and watch
the rates coming in, and now the Mayor has un-
earthed the shark s-tooth club of his fathers, and
put the fish-bone which is the symbol of Atistra-
ban war through his nose, and is wading round in
search of the man who tried to take a rise out of
the edifice.
Some one signing himself “ Tenax Pro-
posito ” boldly affirms in the S.M. Herald, that
we have most plain and positive directions from
the lips of the founder of Christianity concerning
the N.S.W. Divorce Extension Bill. Probably
the mummy who wrote the letter meant some-
thing else ; this, however, is what he said. But
in this connection, wasn’t it the founder of
Christianity who besought his followers to forsake
all, including parents, houses and land, wives,
and children, to follow Him ? Now if that isn’t an
advocation of divorce, it puts in the wife’s hands
good reason to sue for separation on account of
desertion. No doubt any one turning up the back
numbers of the Capernaum paper, edited lately by
Ananias, Esq., would find an “ ad ” or two worded
in this fashion—■“ If Zebedee Habbakuk, the son
of Kamoth-Gilead, dealer in soiled garments,
formerly at the sign of the three balls, Bethlehem,
and supposed to have gone as a missionary to the
Gentiles, doesn’t return in seven days to his
deserted wife Jezebel, she intends to marry again.
Selah ! ” Most of the so-called religious people
who make a business advertisement of going to
church, not only don’t know a tenth part of what
the Scripture contains, but can’t apply what they
do know to the affairs of every day life.


The State of New York has resolved (1) to
Erohibit the interviewing of condemned criminals
y newspaper-reporters, and (2) not to divulge to
a condamne the time fixed for his execution.
pUZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the Sleepy Nigger,
Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address NORTON WADE, care of A. LUSBY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Publio that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAGHRINO & 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIUBETTES, also FIKEST BUKSS of CIBA&S,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
Note this Pbioi !
We Bell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
" SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
MX SHILLINGS EACH! -
MF By buying from us you will Bave at least
85 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 mmi STREET, STSNET
(opposite Savings Bank).
When next yon bake try Pemell's Snow-whit* Patbu
lett.l* Fm> o», and rear bread wl! be ae white »i enow.
The Referee.
Charlwood, the English cricketer, well-
known in Australia, is dead. Of late years he
was in business as a publican.
* #
The SEvin-Burke contest, like the Sulli-
van-Mitchell affair, proves that, as Sayers and
Mace demonstrated in former year 3, a good
middle-weight is big enough for anything. It
must be borne in mind that a fight in the open
would greatly favour Burke's activity and clever-
ness. The little men—Mitchell, Burke, Dempsey,
and Toff Wall—are probably each capable of hold-
ing his own against Sullivan, Smith, Kilrain, or
any of the big ’uns.
* * *
Sanders, the Australian jockey, of Dun-
lop-Cup fame, has ridden a second at York (Eng.),
and a fourth at Doncaster Spring meeting, which
is a good beginning.
• a *
Hon. James White no doubt knows that
the Derby winner is no longer the best horse of
PARKES: “HUM!”
his year in England. The St. Leger, run at Don-
caster in September, is, as a rule, more repre-
sentative of the best three-year-old form, and
affords the imported Australian racer a better
chance of meeting the natives on level terms.
* *
To win a Derby it is necessary to train
through the English winter and bleak spring, and
this must be rough on an animal from our sunny
clime. For the Leger, the English summer would
be available for preparation, and, moreover, the
great handicaps, such as the Ciesarewitch, come
on soon after, and it is here the best English
horses are to be met.
# * #
We ask the N.S.W. police to pause ere
they put down cock-fights. Cock-fighting is a
sport sanctified by the patronage of the Royal
family. When Prince Alfred was in Melbourne
he went to a big “main,” held in the middle of
the city, and when a couple of the cocks got away
his Royal Nib 3 “shinned” over the fence and
helped to catch them again. Let us be loyal to
the Throne.
* * •
Trident, Australia’s “ horse of the cen-
tury,” is to go to the stud. His case furnishes
another proof of the contention that the racehorse
reaches the zenith of his career at the end of his
third season, and that, on this account, the handi-
cap scale of weight-for-age needs revision.
Like Trident, some horses commence to
decline at four years old, but then others, such as
Bendigo, the English crack, improve with age.
In anticipating a renewal of the great struggle
between Abercorn and the Australian Peer during
the coming season it would be as well bear this in
mind.
• *• •
Anent the Burke-Slavin box, a Melbourne
sporting paper says : “Noblemen, doctors, lawyers,
influential men of all grades, literally poured up
the staircases.” This is too much. We don’t
fancy there was a nobleman in Victoria (baronets
not reckoned) at the time—excepting Queensberry.
And the Marquis didn’t pour up the staircase at
all. His patrician form was hoisted through a
window long after the doors were bolted against
the howling mob outside the hall.
# * *
A handsome monument has just been
erected in the Waverley (Sydney) Cemetery by
Mr. W. Cooper, over the grave of his favourite
jockey, Alec. Robertson. It consists of a blue-
stone base, surmounted by a marble cross, and
the inscription runs: “In memory of Alec.
Huberts on, Jockey, who was accidentally killed at
Hand wick, on January 2, 1888, whilst riding
oilvermine in Tattersall’s Cup. This memorial
was erected by William Cooper as a mark of
esteem and respect.”
Eight Australian wickets down for 47 runs
against Leicestershire would indicate that our old
triend 1 ougher was in his best form.
* * *
Shrewsbury was not far out in his esti-
mate of Australian bowling' on sticky ground,
turner took eight North of England wickets for
runs, the best performance of the tour so far.
• » •
There is talk of another match between
George and Cummings. The writer knows both
men well, and considers that though our late
visitor is the better man on his own day, yet the
Paisley lad, being of the wear-and tear order, is
the more reliable, and, consequently the man to
back.
Scott, of N.Z., continues his career- of
victory and record-breaking in England. Little-
wood, the English champion, has returned from
the States, where he has recently won a big six-
days’ wobble, and though the Englishman speaks
of taking a long rest, a match is likely to soon
ensue. This would be interesting, as both men
not only cover a lot of ground, but their styles are
scrupulously fair.
• » •
At the recent Charters Towers (Q.) races a
vigilance committee was appointed, and the mem-
bers stationed themselves at different parts of the
course to watch the running.
* # *
£3OOO will buy the Musket-Nursery colt
Carbine—not a cent less. At least, so “they”
say—and he i 3 scratched for Melbourne Cup, too.
* • •
Dear Bulletin, — We’ll have to start a new
column in the sporting records. Even your
troubles are quoted as if they gave you a halo of
glory :
AUSTIN SAQUI’S celebrated GOUT and Rheuma-
xx tism, relieved instantaneously. Chemists—Simp-
son and Davenport, Collins-street; Davey, Elizabeth-
street. Agents wanted.
Still, my gout’s just as good a one as that of the
quoted bookmaker. Hang his cheek ! What the
salamander should Austin claim celebrity for in
an enlarged big toe ?— Scotty the Wrinkler.
* * .
Melbourne Daily Telegraph styles the
Slavin-Burke contest a “ fifth-rate boxing
encounter.” Can the reverend editor be one of
the old school who turn in disgust from the mild
and modern glove-fight, and long for the gory
“ mills ” which marked the days of Deaf Burke
and the Tipton Slasher ?
* * *
Lawson, the Sydney pug., is at Croydon,
N.Q., giving boxing shows, and teaching amateurs
the noble art.
* * *
From a Melbourne paper (in a football re-
port) : ‘ ‘ Behinds are at the same time indications of
strength and weakness.” There seems to be far
more freedom of the Press in Melbourne than in
Sydney.
* • •
The third Carington Steeplechase Handi-
cap was decided at Sydney on Monday afternoon,
and was won by S. Donoghue, off the 12yds.
marks, with that wonderful aboriginal flyer,
C. Samuels, 3yds., second.
* * *
An American exchange says that Harry
Kelley, ex-champion—has his death not been re-
ported ?-is now exhibiting in New York all his
cups and trophies. Among the lot is a massive
silver cup, presented in 1869, by Mayor Merri-
man, of Sydney (N.S.W.), and a trophy, in gold
and silver, presented for services rendered to Ned
Trickett.
‘ *
Percy Flanagan, of Sandhurst, wants to
g-t on a match with some of the Sydney amateurs,
but these will, no doubt, object to his status. If
Flanagan has derived any emolument for his ser-
vices to Hanlan then he is no longer an amateur.
Tt would be interesting to inquire into the bona-
fide s of many of Australian amateurs, whether
boxers, bicyclists, runners, or rowers.
* •
When Chris. Neilson, a few days ago,
challenged any man in Australia, bar Kemp and
Hanlan, it was generally understood that the
cartel was meant for the winner of the pending
Searle-Stansbury race. The gage has been taken
up, and the Dane, after Searle’s exhibition, must
feel anything but confident. They met last New
Tear's Day at Grafton, when Searle, with a start
of 3| lengths from Nelson, won the handicap.
* * *
Tom Lees actually has the audacity to talk
fight with Jack Dempsey, “ the Nonpareil.”
Peter Jackson’s advent in England should frighten
Lees out of the country. i/j i n _
Riding stiff-’uns in England is rather a
risky game, judging by the punishment meted
out to Woods. Mr. Wood had better come to
the Antipodes. We don’t take so much notice of
these little affairs out here.
* * •
The doggedly-contested race between
Searle and Stansbury, on Friday last, was rowed
in the fastest time on record. There was a smart
breeze behind the men, but with a sluicing ebb
tide it only raised enough ripple to make the
water lively. Searle, pulling in by far the more
dashing style, led by half-a-length at Uhr’s, and
by more than that at the mile-beacon, which was
passed in sm. 35sec. From this out Stansbury
pulled a plucky race, but was unable to catch
Searle, wjio passed the judge two lengths ahead,
in 19m. 52-jsec. The Sydney press have given
Trickett the credit of the previous best on record,
but as a matter of fact, the coloured man Charley
Reynolds had the best time to his credit —20m.
Bsec., rowed in the race for the -trophy given by
Messrs. Punch and Deeble for second-class men in
1883, with an ebb tide and a whole westerly gale
behind him. Searle, of course, now takes Stans-
bury’s place as the prospective champion with the
general public, but he has a hard nut to crack in
Neilson ere he takes a first-class.
- » •»
We have received from Mr. Otto Fuchs,
of Grafton (N.S.W.), a set of his admirable in-
stantaneous photographs of horse-race finishes.
An announcement for Mr. J. H. White,
a metallician who is able to boast that he has gone
straight during a turf career of 23 years, appears
on page 14 of this week’s issue of The Bulletin.
“ Austbalia’s ” Monster Consultations. Jolt
Handicap, Rosehill, July 28, 1888. 4000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First horse, £BOO ; Second,
£250; Third, £150; Starters, £250; Non-starters,
£250 (divided amongst them), and 100 Cash
Awards of £3 each. Also, July Handicap. 3000
Subscribers at 20s. each. First horse, £l5OO ;
Second, £6OO ; Third, £300; Starters, £3OO ; Non-
starter, £3OO (divided amongst them). The Tram-
way Handicap, August 28,1888. 4000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “Austbalia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Offioe,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A London Punch writer, in an “ Ode to
W. G. Grace,” speaks of “Turner, the Terror,”
and “Ferris, the Fiend.”
The hairs of our head are numbered,
which is a fortunate circumstance, as we can’t
conveniently climb up to make dead sure that
they are there. Only the man who drinks that
powerful curative, Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, has
a much greater chance of finding them there if he
could climb up than the man who doesn’t.
This week’s issue contains the prospectus
of the Sir Garnet and Highland Mary Gold-
mining Co., which is being floated in Sydney to
work three valuable properties situated on the
phenomenal Croydon (N.Q.) field, which promises
to be a richer Gympie and to be as perma-
nent a reefing district as Charters Towers.
The crushings to the end of April show a result of
25540 z. of gold from 799 tons of stone, equal to
over 3oz. to the ton, and since that date a further
crushing has yielded as high as ojoz. The stone
down to the 100-feet level is estimated at 6000
tons, and, judging from past results, the yield for
the first 14 or 15 months is estimated at more titan
£36,000. Messrs. Soutar and Hoare are the Sydney
brokers, and Mr. E. H. C. Bristowe, of Bristowe
and Lewis, is secretary. *v\i i m


Hotels
Ms
. BRISBANE,
u *ikWpr,t Houses, Botanical Gardens,
Queensland Club.
FAMILY HOTEL.
FOR NINETY.
w niter
s,
meets every Steamer.
*** please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
HOTEL, IOULIURN.N.I.W
-vm„n Jjmoommodatlon lor oommerolal
® fOoftin *04 others. Private sitting rooms,
SIMONS, Proprietor.
4» M ° RGan HOTEL, QUEENSLAND.
JJjSr Sir patronage of His Ex-
C 1 ,Or8 0vlHfr„ Usgrav e. K.C.M.G. Aooommo-
lk)sJ®°Ues iTfm? rs ’ , Two ' storey buildings. From
mni? n ? id vlew ean 1)6 obtained of
bjJ*® Jtain of gold, and within a few
j company’s works. Passenger
tw l mi^ ay 4aily from Rockhampton and
0ft he fW tlo . n8 - w - MONCKTON, Pro-
of Monckton and Co,
. MORGAN.
National Ho
Q 20 BBDRQ0MS -
re&dv b , 6ei1 beautifully done up
o.n° r 13110 reception of vli
V^ f oia in Qd .7 dar stocked with best *
L>'- Wate - Mrs. Hkiskr, Propr:
fesy 1 r
itlof. mpl * room.
oldest Family and
the colony. Prices
u Hot and Coif Baths
Proprietress.
I>S’ HOTEL,
W At SPCHOBW-flTOMr.
y%OR S -—
'f.^ly^hafl 0^181118 bhe above hotel, which
A ana R Modern Edition of over 100 rooms,
C' e 6]r,k! ell "Veinji tI ! prOTement8 > BUC b as light,
& CS-S \ ted bedrooms, large public-
' teA 1 ? baths ’ bot and cold baths, shower
"k SuJPbone, ailfl pa ® seil ger elevator, electrlo
e d in * other hotel requisites, not
CrW* called f .r atla ba. Visitors can rely
&ti 8 PromnH arly morning trains. Letters
■ y attended to. Prices very
p »ter woods,
Ifed ar >B Proprietor
6 hotel, aibury.
V.'c *mving become Lessee ot
b 6 Hotel, begs to inti-
to f A u blie that every atten-
't ttverv tr . Management to ensure
A a n Suif Colo &ies. Best Accom modation pro-
KS 69 Ce£j? ms for Families.
i^, Ce 0{ wil1 be under the
S>W>, Bill- ’ Solomons.
A\fSlS£nl h ’ H ot and Cold_Baths,
M.pu£ r sw.
vStte* B anda ; N.S.W. and Vic-
"iifht ported' tlele R ra ma promptly
* 1 3 °LnMON8. Pr mrl«*o».
«ts.
Announcements.
ZBala nd
H REMEDIES
rrjasarrjk
jrram the Soudan CTOn tin spent Hospital
Cforpe / also from eminent JDootora ana
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2a. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for It and take no substitute.
It is invaluable cure. See testimonials
o
Diarrhea Mixture,
x
<\pe r
*a, Brt 8014 hy all Chemists.
Bottle,
64,
lA mixture,
Per
Bottle.
®Ole
® AB *. liaiBOCKNB.
Business Announcements
E. 1) MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT.
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUh ENSLAND
MANUMCTufUR)
* importers or
jffiTSMPSfc
438 CEO ACC ST
3YDNEY %
UMBRELLAS
RE-CCJVE R£ a
OITUDY ECONO***
and
HaTe your Umbrella Frame* ft
cohered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made <k)ta*
.to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols. made to match eoe
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their* Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst, and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
6EORGF STREET
SYDNEY
' H PORTERS OF All THE
. NEWEST SHAPES.
And ab QUEEN STREET. BRISBANF.
ISLIIF FBOI C#L€l II TEN MINUTES.
BALSAM OF
HOBEHOUND.
■Miwmf—a m*RMir *» couarha, Cota*.
IUfMMIi «MaS fttaerdera ol to Cheat
linnfa. It hag wrtaf fiffgga »o«t rocoaMfol prapara-
Hr arar oatrsO. Tha Kir Bs ftaanorisg daily. .
IT HAB A MOLI fLEASANT TASTE.
Ia tha ntuiarp It la tattlnMa. a* children ara fond a#
O. Immadlatalp it if tafaa Cec«rbln« ceaaea, r«*
laaanaaa k nu, ni Ktfktcklut Sleep enauea.
Fo lad* wtoh-TiSa wS b wSWId m afterward. ho
wilkaatU.
A. HATMAJf * Oc. (lilts of Neath).
11, Aiinma Be., London, England.
Prioa la 1(4., fa. ML, 4s. M., A Ua per bottle,
nei in rfaaft few toemM mil procurt it:
THE ORIGINAL
ANo 'v7^i^ LY
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHEWORLD!!
NONE OTHER RUT
WAUGH’S
rtECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZE MEDAL
&IANUPACTURED BYJAMES ChANNON
HarbouA S t Sydney
Sold by AH Crocers and Storekeepers
Business Announcements.
M
o K U M K H T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing):
!>r»Wn» and Eitimatei forwarded on reqneit
J. CUHHIMttHAM,
TSAIiOAJRjrr-BTfcMIT, WvNTARD-80Ui.R*, SYDMI
A WONDERFUL UEOICIK
BEECHAM’S PILLS
c riA
&
PATENT
PILLS.
w
$
*
Are admitted by thou
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
for females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. NO'
female should be without thorn. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEKCHAMS PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses wifi
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM.’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, .dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bexcuam’s
O'gii Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Bebciiam’s Pious, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. l|d. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
THK BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exoban ge, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred't.
Drafts issued and Bills ct ’looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIb Acting Manager.
m
m
SCIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE l
"KMir '"’“MurSra
The Successful Treatment of ! i 1 M
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY or other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &c., m w 1 M
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified praotitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, baa
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”!
53, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affection.- 1
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that Ido not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address —
PROGRESSIVE UESICAL IHSTITUTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
if No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 263, G.P.O.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment).
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond'Street, Sydney
of~jSydne§.
r *Mt£$«MM£±NOlJNTAlNS*
WE can recommend the Imperial Haib
Cutting Saloon as the beet in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-Street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D^R
AND
INVALIDS
FOR
Has an enormous sale in England,
«tul is now being introduced intD Ui«,
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should got
•a every wise mother will certaiply
use it.
OR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS*
LONDON. ENGLAND,
f
MA. BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AS
ANO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
SHAKt-O BNH OT
mas Insmam
OCKHAM P T or
£
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINK CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
MoasUche »nd WMsktti. .trout aft**
(Boyd's Meant JEltxir did ChU, t
ant wilt do it on either bald ’
head or bare face- Foma ,
heavy Moustache In .from 3 to -■
, 4 toeekt and never faile.2 ™
Oepyriyhted. young men already wear full ®npyrlgktaii
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkta. No injury, eaeily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. Bd. each, 3 for 3s, 6d., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation dddrett, IFirMii SouiritA, Sole Agent,
Box iso, a. r.o _____
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin M«cn
806 PITT STREET,
‘WIJJ’UO,
r ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fiagrance.
Threb Gold Mfja'*
PARIS, 1878, CALCUT > v.1b84,
for pre-eminent excello*. * of quality
Atkinson’s Newrs- Perfumes
EATJ DE
Is unequalled for it ~ ‘
_ us strength and delight!
odcur’ It far surpasses the numerous coin
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORID AW A TER
an exc- ntionally fine perlume for the hand
kerchief. distilled from the choicest exotics
Of ail Dt<Uers, and of the Manufacture* *■
i k B. ATKINSON,
i*' Old Bond Stekbt, London
I>»ae Mark Rose* on ti«»ia* n
Ax Ura ‘ A


3vwwh(
ROYALJIS«W»|
m
WlH 6
POWDER
Absolutely Pur« D
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
frhftm lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoifls all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists'
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
—:e=. b.
IMPOBTW or
M WIITBS, SPIRIT S, BEERS, &0„
George and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
&PROIALITIES: —
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
sj4.(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’B and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
M" The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. &T All brands of Colonial Wines,
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales' Hotel, 778 & 780 George-streot.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
M SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
Will MS’ SIPESSiiSIT HIM si IM7OIT,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdekn & Sons).
Produce Stores ■ gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
IST HI W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYEYARD_SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATISD catalogues with prick list, free on application,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
ram, riDi, rtoi
in
— — IMP!!*
Wot Artiatio 2uuU»'^
-' comblnl* gJ-S,, -
SHARLEMflHr l
C0L€MME*$
ECCA.LYPTB 0 i1j
Victory Onrgj*
A Pure Extract from_
Awarded GOLD 8?^'
beating all othe i^bibi® 1011 '
Great Centennial $
Prize
Can be used for gad WB.
litis, Rheumatism,
ad Gravel C ,mpl , at . nt ®’Address,
kiut, etc. Posted to any oTAJl0 Sf f#
Manufactory: K CP T ° BEIfr Moo
ydney Dwo'g^jlloE^g;
— tf*
3DR »• and I*.***
L.R.C.P., Bdin., uR ; O 'f naN 0wrtd I
glsteredin W^gosP 1^
be surgeon to Fro®?, jjetf
ssident Medical Officer W ™ t of
radon, specialist for the tuea e i
id Heart Diseases, peitfffiife^
Consultation by leM#* 8,
targe, at Kdgar House, »
unter-street Sydney, _— —
~ A BlesBlng hi every J»
[OLLOWA Y'S plp „. n the oljirt b» fe
There is not “ t °hese% nd f.iS
healing virtues of th | de rert' *®|[oo (Hi
gnised by thousands 0* ® en0 floen» » 5 ‘ (of It* 1 '
iss*is^sSrs^
sere should look to th d.gtresti
he address Is not 6*8 Oxior
rlous.
WILLIAM BULLARD. 343 GEORGE STK J
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans. Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese Curio
9 BALL PROGRAMMES. , w
tiesorTPTIOJN
CARDS ENGRAVED OR
BALL PROGRAMMES.
PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY
.AJLIa-n. -A- Co.,
ENGINEERS, COPPER SMITHS, BRASS & BELL FOUNDERS,
FINISHERS, PLUMBERS, GASFITTERS,
SHIP & GENERAL SMITHS, ART & MEDIAEVAL METAL WORKERS.
Holler *• kates, any make, with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
tar Agents for “ Verity’s ” Patent Gas Fires and Heaters at Greatly Reduced Prices.
Cheapest and most satisfactory fire in the market. Over 11,000 already in use.
Yacht and Boat Work of every description in Iron or Brass.
Ships’ SINGLE and DOUBLE Action Valve Closet. Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 MACQUARIE PLACE and STANMORE ROAD, PETERSHAM.
<}°
INDIA RUBBER IHANUF A C T^ B
ERSICINE AND CLARENCE STREETS,
: o : . Ru bber g°° ie °
Rubber Valves, Washers, Goskets, &c., &c. Moulded to any size, r*
Lists' and Samples on
M E R V O U S n «T B I L
A FREE
D E
MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist^
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-GOB®
dal advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess
voU®
Diseases. It gives special
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Ji^is
15? LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK
Herha'^V
SYDNEY, NEW
<3- P\ PICKLES dz> SOPTS. Carxiag'e 33va.5-l^j
tST THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA
City Repository: ■ 5,
Metropolitan Manufactory:
$0
7, 9,
3 2,
11
3 4,
m e«-® 011
LATROBE STREET WEST, - R
36 BRUNSWICK STREET, F |T?
H
K
EH
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE assurance
. DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for
in the event of death within the Tontine Period or in the Event of Survival,
4
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in
IN’TONTINE SURPLUS. SSF Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom
LEA &PERRINSSAUCE
ik
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which aft calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrin*
have ta request that Purchasers S& that ike Latvian euesjf batlliO
beari their Signature thus—
without which HO bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PEERIffS* Saute, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Hattie omM
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester t. C ™* 4 ,/""
Hlaekbell, London, 6v.,.6fA i and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
f 5 *** DATm Coea te. CeL. ftwhuw ’
MaeaAACxr
...a r&i'St
BfS&SSts &$$
di&e been known for nearly 100 year* a* the beat and safest
Sailing off or turning
hair «»ft, silky, curly
It Is especially recommended
y*,n also be had in
•/)"*' ( <)t
;Mldren and "fair or grey-haired adults. 8ize« 3s Ad f* fesnilT w ' “ s^wfl
'Os 6d . and d »ible that size, 21s.
ROWLANDS’ KALY00R - s-a
She face, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan. sunburn, ecz peant'" /ufff't
of the nkin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions etc. and produces a (o'
complexion. „ a s rr Jyrb
ROWLANDS' 0D0NT0 whiten* the teeth, JVS& 8
•p“ rion '
qrfrYtilf*y n«roMN
GOLDEN COLOtffii*
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E.
Q0"
WIESENER’S
Have proved a s acces 3 as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20
and the Public can rely iipon being served bettor and chc
WATCHES! WIESENBR’S WATCHES! WIESENER’S
years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class Watches (in sterling Silver and Gold cases only) iir ® ie iii 01 '
heaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy Shops, where the only aim can bo “ to. 8 &
m- ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATOH JCOM PANE’S SILVER ENGLISH PATENT JLEVERS \ fronaJjrOs. ,T2T WALTHAM^'
—' 0ff]C^)'
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (haif-way between Hunter-street and P° st
e3 etl
