

A*k you*
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London anl> Sydney,
“ An ordinary cap contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the beat Ate or Porter, 1 r —
TAILORING COMPANY
ARE THE
IARCEST TAILORS IN THE COLONIES.
*
rite for Patterns and Self-Measurement Chart,
Fit Guaranteed or Money Returned.
Oaa.l3T Bzancb. in. iTe-w
CORNER OF ,
Sin? aid Qeorge
SoirLtla. IvXTTales
99 Bourke St., North Side.
|
■ bourke Street, South Side.
Eastern Market, Bourke St
Lonsdale Street.
ALSO ?A-T
m t
t fc
* • «C
J
•> -<
7 and 99 Bourke St., North SMe.
96 Bourke Street, South Side.
Corner Eastern Market, Bourke St.;
St.s. . V V -i •
84 Lonsdale Street.
■» <•
HEAD OFFICE. .
m lit
i 1
n
*
The Bulletin


I
f/tIACU
mESHES
TOBACCO
m
OIXSOMNI
■p
a
O
v
ROGER
IXOELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in Above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOULTON’S
FKUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured
—no? merely relieved —and we can prove what we
say. There are no failures and no disappoint-
ments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also
cures all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPA
TION and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION,
relieve distress from too hearty eating, correct
DISORDERS of the STOMACH, Stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
TIE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 34.
C. E. MOULTON ... Sole Pboprietor,
PILLS
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
ivpaaiM all other* for.lts lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tsui Gold Manats—
PARIS,IB7B; CAICUTTA,IBB4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE IYI,ANG YLANG
BTEFHANOTIS I OFAPANAX
and ottfer well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled tor their delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DB COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fraaranoe. It is far superior; tothe numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
O/ all Dtaltrt, and o' the Manufacturer!—
J. A B. AfKINSdN,
M, Odd Bohd Stxixi, 3Cohdo».
Trade Hark— “ White Rose’’ion “ Golden
Lyre." j
M‘LEAN BEOS., EIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
m
Wd
6
ass**?
IRONMONGERS
v
H/
o
-p
<b
SPXIOX MATI ES -. »
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Itsbest.os 'Fire-proof Paint, K\bo Carbon Light, \
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JE ANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.
■w ILLIiiMS’S
YEAST POWDEE
18 THB ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TEA-CASES, PASTi.T, * c "
ABB
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams' Australian least Pow^r.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUBH, AND THE SEA,
BE WARS OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
BOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POUN^'
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital ■■ ... .. £549,151
I’aidMip Capital .. .. ... ... £240,554
Total Income Cast Hair Year .. .. £809,534
DEPOSITS S Per Cent for TWELVE MOSTHS.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who de-me to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to se3ure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very be-t opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AKFLE FUSES for Borrowers. TERMS LIBERAL
9
!« Flip ilsR 1 *! 1 *3!^
ftHJWinH 1. raiLM
1
m
i I UMM
iirmiin
PR E MIE K
BUILDING ASSOCIATION
54 COLLINS STREET £* sT '
<£2s Contributing Shar@ s
f iO. f
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment ot.
a 3l’ c y
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Sh alC “
il Int ( 11
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compo u ®: j,,
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their lioldef 8 1
j . Oct 0
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received 111
1885, £2(5 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Oonird ,!li
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fort ight for 11 years.
Hon. .lOIIV MimiO, M.l\, .1.1*.,
JAMES Milt,IMS, M.l\, J.t\,
■
' THE
FEDERAL COFFEE PALA^
OOIt.VKK OF
ISZirrgr cS z> Collirrs Streets, l^e lToo-clx^’
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every eonvenier.ee for the oemfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished"
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine »i> d
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL * GROUND
With excellent Merit, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
FLOO fil
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION H
HOT, COLD anti SHOWER BATHS.
00
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REP LIE 1}
TO-
e<-


The Bulletin
Vol 9—No 960
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1888.
Price, 6d.
A “General Boom.”


NOTICE,
Hg Sending direct Jo Tub BumitlN Office Twenty Shillings
iterling—Which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
van ham Ti BulUAin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
sity tuft Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom We do not uish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
flu National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians, 1 '
l BULLETIN NEWSPAPER cb.(,
Limited,,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
'A® a Fitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
tftekttS TO SUBSCRIBES®
(payable in advance, only).
iPcr Annum ... ... ... ... tol 0 >J
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0 1Z 6
!Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to b'e addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
00 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say stiOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
wrftmutiicdtiom will be regarded as strictly confidential.
K fhe Bulletin " will return all unavailable MSS. when
ihe Address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But We
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we & re not responsible for the preservation or transmission
if stick MSS.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1888.
THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
NOTICE TO OUR AGENTS.
We shall be glad to at once receive orders
for the Christmas Number of “ THE
BtJLLETIN,” which will consist of a much
larger edition than that published by any
other weekly paper in Australasia, replete with
attractive matter and including a supplement
in five colours by Phil May. This supple-
ment, which is entitled “JUMPS AND
JIM-JAMS, A TEMPERANCE SER-
MON,” w ill be one of the most humorous and
original drawings ever issued in this country ,
awl will certainly attain an enormous and
permanent popularity. The stories and verse
published in the number will be of exceptional
interest.
gg§P To ensure full supply, early appli-
cation is absolutely necessary.
NOTICE TO ADVERTISERS.
To prevent disappointment, intending ad-
vertisers should notv secure positions, as the
limited space available in this Special
Number is rapidly filling up.
Honours and Imperialism.
When Sir Thomas M‘ll wraith vfoited
England during his first Premiership, he had
occasion, necessarily, to call at the Colonial
Office. Lord Carnarvon was at that time
Secretary of State for the Colonies, and held,
metaphorically speaking, the fate of these
communities in the hollow of his hand. Since
that time his Lordship has favoured us with
a visit and the people of the colony, or at
least some of them, have had an opportunity
of learning with a certain degree of direct-
ness what sort of a man had been their
special Providence. Sir Thomas M‘llwraith
had anticipated the later impressions thus
formed. He had among his familiar friends
made no secret of his valuation. Reduced
to the vernacular of the vulgar, his descrip-
tion of the Imperial magnate may be rendered
as “a confoanded old woman.” Now Lord
Carnarvon was but one among a long series
of Secretaries of State for the Colonies all
selected on the same “ principle,” and gene-
rally with identical results. The “principle”
has been a simple one. So many seats in
the Cabinet* to be filled : so many aspirants
who must be provided with seats. Buff - ?
and Snuffy being provided for, what remains
for Guffy ? Shove him into the Colonial
Office !
• • •
It would be absurd to pretend that—other
things being e^ual—it should not be possible
to pick from 35,000,000 of inhabitants bf
Great Britain a Cabinet collection which
should, man for man, be superior to any
Ministries which could be got togetheb in
the Australias with their 3,000,000 or so of
people. And it has to be admitted that,
although “ other things ” are not equal, the
inequality is not all favourable to the one
side. Thus if it be an advantage to be able
to draw upon a leisured class of highly-
educated persons, of independent means,
for Parliamentary rulers, the mother country
is all ahead. But if it be an advantage to
have the biggest pick of men of simply
natural parts and shrewdness, the balance
seems rather to incline in the opposite direc-
tion. Parliamentary representation in Great
Britain has been, and still Is, ah almost
exclusive privilege of one or two classes.
In Australia lb is open to every class. Thus
it may be that the scope for choice is about
numerically equal after all in Australia and in
England. A University training and an Indoc-
trination in the fads of traditional officialdom
do not necessarily confer upon the typical
trained aspirant for legislative fiinctions in
Great Britain, any qualifications of practical
value. And the possession of redundant
wealth, Inherited or acquired, does not carry
with it intellectual aptitude for administra-
tive functions.
* * *
It follows that, despite the occasional
prominence achieved in British politics by
men of exceptional gifts added to accidental
accomplishments, the colonial legislatures
have been on the average constituted of men
quite as capable of attending to the concerns
to be dealt with as have been the Parliaments
of the mother country. The accomplish-
ments, in fact, of a Canning, a Burkis, a
Gladstone, or of the late Earl Derby, serve
chiefly to embellish the Bolid parts and
to Illuminate the gifts which such men
derived from nature. The instance of
Benjamin Disraeli supports this pro-
position. Possessed of little Latin and less
Greek • unable to converse in French, the
language of diplomacy, his natural gifts made
him the real, although nob the nominal, chief
of Lord Derby, author of a translation of
the Iliad, and enabled him to hold his own
on equal terms with Gladstone, a man dis-
tinguished among the schoolmen of any age.
It does not happen very often that an Aus-
tralian Parliament touches the depths of in-
competency which has been bottomed by the
present Legislature of New South Wales.
Our annals present no instance of a Cabinet
which would nob compare favourably with
one which comprises a Roberts, an Abigail,
an Inglis, and a Simpson. But no matter
what intellectual strength might be em-
bodied in Australian Parliaments, the future
of these regions would be compromised were
it not for the happy fatuousness of the rulers
of the mother country.
* * *
There is no possibility of misconceiving
the divergent tendency of policies in Great
Britain and in Australia with respect to the
future relations of the two countries. Tardily
but surely the rulers of the mother country
are awakening to the enormous value of the
vast continent which was once scorned as a
worthless desert. It has dawned at length
upon the ruling classes that while they and
their forefathers have been pouring out
blood and treasure Immeasurable to preserve
some Inscrutable balance of power in Europe,
a territory which can never be English,
there is here, at the Antipodes, a con-
tinent equal in area and superior in poten-
tialities which is nominally all their own,
and may, by adroit management, be
retained as an appanage of the Crown. The
floundering fashion in which it is attempted
to regain or retain dominion in Australia is
infinitely diverting. Since the colonists of
North America succeeded in achieving inde-
pendence, despite the most strenuous exer-
tions of the fighting power of Great Britain,
the ruling class in that country appear to
lose all nerve when a question of white
colonists and their inclinations arises.
# •
It is almost humiliating, even to an Aus-
tralian, to observe the timorous flutter occa-
sioned among British statesmen by the rough
and vigorous arrogance of the Premier 'of
Queensland. The statesmen of the some-
time Great Power evidently do not know
which way to turn. To concede the demands
of the colonists is plainly to countenance a
distinct step towards ultimate independence
and separation. But to refuse concurrence
appears a sure way of accelerating the very same
thing. As a matter of fact, the dilemma is
one which a great statesman would speedily
solve. He would either recognise that
it is “ the manifest destiny ” of Australasia
to develope into a mighty nationality, or
would perceive the fallacy of such a forecast.
In the former case he would bow to
the inevitable, and address himself to pre-
paring the way to a separation which
should be effected in a manner and
in a spirit calculated to ensure the
maximum of advantage to the mother country.
If, on the other hand, he flouted the “ mani-
fest destiny ” theory, he would set himself
to foil the separatist tendencies of the
colonists. A British statesman who had
faith in the abiding grandeur and power of
his country, would see little difficulty In
dealing with the aspirations of rampant
colonies. He would believe that he possessed
two methods of attaining success, each pro-
bably capable of achieving success, separately;
and both, united, bertain of doitig so. Of
these, one is cajolery, and the other is forbe.
No able man attempts force until he has
mads sure that cajolery is vain Hence
ca jolery would probably be the first recourse.
And it would be a dangerous weapon if em-
ployed in real earnest. Taere would be no
difficulty whatever in seducing front separa-
tist inclinations a powerful section of the
most influential class in the community. The
wealthy lower orders would be only tco happy
to meet the seduction half-way. Having
money, they sigh for distinction which the
moneyless should not share. Political
station is not maintainable without ability
distinct from the mere sordid faculty of
acquiring and accumulating wealth. There
have been Premiers and othei’Ministers who
have gained office chiefly because they were
wealthier than other aspirants. But none
have long held office so acquired. They have
been jostled out of power by “penniless
adventurers ” as they love to call the class of
brainy men whose intellectual (Qualities are
of a higher than the grubbing order. The
magnate of Potts Point or Toorak is
shouldered out of the place of power and
prominence by some fellow who would he
out at elbows were he to wear only coats he
piaidfor; or by some other, chiefly notable in
private life for his disreputable habit of ob-
taining moneys by false pretences, or his
constant condition of chronic insolvency.
• *
There is no joy in distinctions only to be
won by sacrifices and exertions, only to be
maintained by Btrenuous effort, not to be
had at all without a disagreeable com-
plaisance to the vulgar crowd, and, after all,
shared with every Ton, Jack, and Harry
who has parts enough to humbug the public
and make himself troublesome in Parliament.
Hereditary distinctions are baits that would
hook the entire snobocracy of the Australias.
It is positively wonderful that the British
governing class has not perceived this long
ago. It is more than probable that
they will perceive it very shortly. Perhaps,
however, the recognition (f the fact may
come too late. Even now it would be
awkward for any professing National Aus-
tralian of note to accept a titular distinction
from the Imperial Powers. The contempt
for colonial personages felt by an hereditary
Sovereign, an old nobility, and the series of
simulative gentry who give a tone to the
ideas of the governing class in Great Britain,
has been permitted sway somewhat over
long. For lack of a titled class and the sig-
nificant class which either grovels to titles
or hopes vaguely to gain one somehow or
sometime, the Democratic sentiment is be-
coming hard set in these colonies. There is
actually only one Australian baronet in Aus-
trafia, and there have been but throe or four
such creations altogether. With haughty
disdain the Sovereign and her counsellors
have treated colonists as unworthy of sharing
in even the meanest of existing distinc-
tions. Even the order of the Bath,
of which so many of our wealthy lower
orders are so obviously in need, has
been withheld from them. A special
order has been Invented to spare the bearers
of distinctions more antique the degradation
of association with the despised colonists,
and so little regard has been held for that
order that no pains have been taken to ex-
clude from participation in it, even among
those who have been affronted by nomina-
tion to its distinctions, men held in con-
tempt among the society in which they
moved. Thus by an inspired perversity of
stupid hauteur even those whom it was
thought proper to decorate, have been
affronted, and no Imperialistic sect hss been
created among the colonists. More saga-
cious counsels may, however, yet prevail,
and among the gravest dangers to Australian
Independence is the possibility that the
adroit cajolery of titular distinctions may
create divisions among our people.
•
Failing this, the alternative of force re-
mains. It has been a fashion with shallow
declaimers to call attention to the fact that
the populations of Australian colonies now
aggregate more than the number of inhabi-
tants of the British North American provinces
at the time when they wrenched their freedom
from the resisting grasp of Great Britain. The
inference has been drawn that, consequently,
a similar contest here would certainly have
like results. That impression appears also
to prevail among the legislators and rulers
of England. On no other hypothesis can
their meek submission to the flouts of
colonial leaders be explained. But, no
matter by whom the idea is held, it is un-
doubtedly attributable to a superficial ac-
quaintance with history. The Americans
revolted, struggled, and were successful.
These are the naked facts. And on these a
precedent is founded. But the student of
history knows how dire was the struggle and
how uncertain the event for year after year.
He knows that it was not the colonists of
America alone who foiled the might of
Britain, but that the fleets and armies of
France co-operated in the struggle, and
Great Britain had on her hands, during its
continuance, not merely her revolted
colonists, but the French and the Dutch.
Moreover, the conditions of warfare were
entirely different from those which now pre-
vail. The American settlers had among
them bodies of veterans accustomed to face
in tho field the soldiers of the French
king. The backwoodsmen were har-
dened guerillas, inured to warfare by
their constant skirmishes with the dan-
gerous aborigines. They were marksmen
from childhood. And the civilian of
those days Aioh his fowling-piece was a
better armed man than the regular troops
with their clumsy and wild-shooting muskets;
To-day all that is changed. The arms of the
civilian are paltry as contrasted with the
weapons of the soldier. A crowd of country-
men such as confronted the British troops at
Lexington, and drove them back in confusion
and dismay, wonld to day be mowed, down
with ease and certainty. TJ'he moral of these
considerati ons is simple. The hopes of Aus-
tralian nationalists at the present must be
centred less in their own strength or adroit-
ness than in the remarkable capacity for
blundering displayed by the representatives
of the would be exploiters of Great Britain.
The Women's Elysinin
JNew South Wales is “the Paradise of the work
mg man,” so says Premier Parkes, and California
must be the elysium of the enterprising woman; to
judge from the short and simple story of a sweet
young lady’s life, as told by herself to a correspon-
dent of The Bulletin. She was married, poof
dear, at an early age to a youthful and well-to-db
but uncongenial coppersmith. He had a big shop
in a main street in San Francisco; he made a pot
of money and he let his wife spend it. Could a
young coppersmith do more ? She thought So and
she tried. She found her affinity, and she cdn-
fided the fact to the coppersmith who forgave her
want of taste and took the gentleman into his own
confidence. She found another cicisbeo when she
tired of the first, and the complaisant eopper-
smithj to whom in the first years of their marriage
she had borne two children, cottoned to the
second lover as he had done to the other and to a
long series of them afterwards, each time swear-
mg that it wa3 only for the sake of the
children that he refrained from blowing
the roof of the affinity’s head off. Finally, the
fickle fair one gob so fearfully mashed upon a new
arrival—who had, by the way, left his own wife in
the East—that she insisted upon having a divorce
from the coppersmith and marrying her latest
flame. The coppersmith was getting so tired of
the succession of guests who tramped in and out
of his house from the moment he left it until the
moment he returned, that he agreed to the
arrangement. As is usual in such cases, the lady
applied for the divorce; the much-wronged hus-
band offered no opposition, the ill matched couple
were set free, and the lady married her new lover,
whose deserted wife also procured a divorce in
double-quick time.
* • •
This new deal in the matrimonial game proved
unsatisfactory, and once more the aid of the
law was invoked, and all parties set free from
the conjugal yoke. The fair one left her two hus-
bands to console themselves in San Francisco, and
tried her luck in the Southern portion of the
State. Here her inflammable heart took fire
again, and she ended a long succession of love
affairs by marrying for the third time. Now
comes the odd part of the story. That reckless,
shameless jade has at last turned out to be one of
the best wives and mothers in America It is five
years since she entered on her third coverture,
and she has three children by the third husband.
She writes affectionately friendly letters at fre-
fluent intervals to the second husband, who has
himself married again, and she sends kindly mes-
sages through the second husband to the copper-
smith and his children, whom, however, she
plainly intimates that she does not desire to see.
Pray, Mrs. Mona Oaird, can you call marriage
a failure after that ? Well, certainly not, if you
try often enough.
• »
From the Golden City our correspondent also
sends us the story of a dear young thing who got
rid of an unoffending but inconvenient husband
by applying for a divorce on the usual ground of
alleged cruelty, the cruelty consisting of the poor
man being terribly in the way. It is a point of
honour not to contradicb a lady under such cir-
cumstances, and the injured wife was liberated
from the nuptial noose. She set up a lodging-
house for gentlemen only, and was prosperous
enough. She had plenty of lodgers, and neces-
sarily no losses, as payment in advance is the in-
variable rule in San Francisco, where you deposit
a month’s rent and get the key of your room.
That day month you pay another month’s rent or
you get the key of the street. Her lodgers were
all more or less young, good-looking, prosperous,
and friendly. One day in confidential chat with
an inmate she said: “Now, who do you think
is going to take the next room to yours?”
“Can’t say,” responded the gentleman ad-
dressed. “ Why, Mister Numberwun ! no
less.” “Great Scott!” says the gentleman:
“you don’t mean your husband?” “No, sir,
I do not,” responded the fair one stiffly, “I
have no husband, you will remember, for I obtained
a divorce from Mister Numberwun.” “I know
that,” replied the lodger, who had indeed excellent
reason to know it very well, “ but surely you won’t
have him here!” “Indeed I will, sir,” said the
lady, completing the conversation. “Pray, is not
his money as good as anyone else’s ?”
“But how shocking it is,” says Mrs. Grundy,
‘to allow such shameless goings-on ! f> Is it
indeed, dear madam, and are not these goings-on,
as you call them, exactly the things you con-
done when men do them ? These two absolutely
accurate histories derive their peculia-ity simply
from the fact that they narrate the doings of
women instead of men, and come from a country
where the practice rather than the theory of
the law leaves a woman as free as a man is.
Here such women are trodden in the dirt, while
their male companions go free Pray, are we any
the better off for that ? We do not trouble our-
selves about the morality of our bakers and shoe-
makers. They feed our mouths and cover our
toes, and we never inquire whether they are as
celibate as Cardinal Manning or as much married
as King Solomon. We do not fret ourselves
because of the naughty stories told of some
of our actresses and singers. They amuse
us, and a,re independent of us, and so they may do
as they like. Would it make us any worse off if
we were to be equally indifferent to the purely
private affairs of all the rest of the world with
whom we happen to have business dealings ? We
should get on a great deal better if we paid
more attention to our own concerns and less
to the morals of other people. As a mat-
ter of fact we have no more right to
trouble ourselves about the virtue of women who
make our shirts and wash them, than we have
about the conduct of the men who make our


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house).
Directors :
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of morey
of all nations in addition to ail usual banking
b i liness.
. Interest on Deposits :
12 months 7 per cent.
T. nirimrtf <ov - - HI ninctor.
tables and shoe our horses. The world is the better
off and not the worse because it contains a country
where a woman need not go wrong for ever be-
cause she has gone wrong for a time, and where a
Woman who, like most m»n, has no morality worth
mentioning is not obliged to depend upon her im-
morality for her bread and butteri
Snubbing a Goverment.
With one stroke of his pen the omnipotent
Premier of New Smth Wales has deprived the
Governor of a prerogative which the constitution
of the colony expressly reserves to him. With
the same mighty splurge of words Sir Henry
Parkes has wiped out the paragraph in the
Governor’s instructions which directs him in the
use of that prerogative, and has assumed for him-
self the position from which hs dethrones the
Queen’s representative. In a letter written by Sir
Henry Parkes on September 10 last, beginning
“My dear Lord Carington,” he informs his be-
loved Lord that “It has now long been settled
that the advisers of the Crown are held directly
responsible by Parliament for the remission wholly
or in part of criminal sentences.” S nce when,
pray, has it been so settled ? It is not yet two years
since Sir Henry Parkes himself accompanied Mr.
Dalley, Cardinal Moran, and Bishop Barry to
ask Lord Carington to remit the sentence of death
passed upon the six Mount Rennie convicts after
the Cabinet, sitting as the Executive Council with
the Cover nor, had expressly declined to interfere.
Upon that occasion Lord Carington, either in
deference to the representations of the bigwigs
who bored him or from some motive of mercy of
his own, did actually remit the capital sentence in
two of the cases, and only four of the convicts
were sent to the gallows, instead of the six whom
his Honour Judge Windeyer destined to that
elevated punishment. Pray, did Sir Henry
Parkes then join in asking Lord Carington to
exceed his duty and disobey his advisers, who
were avowedly opposed to aDy modification of the
punishment? If so, he struck a blow at Constitu-
tional Government which he should have been
ashamed to deal. If not, there must have been
some time since the execution of the Mount
Rennie convicts when the power passed from
the hands of the Governor into those of his
advisers.
• •
The truth is that the Governor doss not in this
matter stand in relation to bis advisers as the
Queen stands in relation to her Ministers, but he
rather stands in this particular aspect as a
Minister adv,sing the Crown. The Qaeen exer-
cises the prerogative of mercy here, and the
Governor as her representative advises her as to
the fitness of the object. Practically he decides
in her place just as the Home Secretary does in
England. Otherwise his instructions upon this
point would be a dead letter. They expressly pro-
vide that in the exercise of the prerogative of mercy
he may act upon his own responsibility, merely
directing that if he differ with bis advisers he
shall formulate his reasons in writing for acting
contrary to their advice. Were it otherwise Sir
Henry Parkes would have been guilty of the
grossest impropriety when he ventured to approach
the Governor to urge upon him the exercise of a
prerogative which did not belong to him, bu b had
passed to his advisers. Nor dees the recent dis-
cussion between the late Sir Anthony Musgrave
and his Ministers touch the question at all Tee
Ministers therein made a particular exercise of the
prerogative the condition of their retention cf
power. Public opinion supported them, and the
Governor had to give in because he c ,uld
not get a new Ministry. So in the past it
has often bsen in various contests between
the Crown and its advisers. Sometimes the
one has conquered, sometimes the other. In 1852
Lord Palmerston war driven with absolute con-
tumely from office by the Queen because he did
not allow Prince Albert to interfere with foreign
dispatches. The opinion of the public was in
favour of the Qaeen, because she considered her-
self insulted that the dispatches had been drawn
up before she saw them and were only formally
submitted to her. In 1855 that same Lord
Palmerston was forced on the Queen against her
will as Prime Minister, and for nine years out of
the ten which followed he was the most popular
man in England. The truth is that the force cf
public opinion which compels a particular direction
of the prerogative of the Crown does cot lessen
them nor take them away.
• • •
The weak point in Sir Henry Parkes’ armour
is, as it has always been, his tendency to claim a
prerogative cf his own. Now that ha is in office
he assumes that the prerogative of mercy is vested
in the Cabinet. When he was out of office he
went to Lord Carington in person upon a most
solemn occasion to ask h m to overrule the
Cabinet’s decision. If he were out of office again
he would do the same thing to morrow and would
thunder away at the Mini-try which resisted him.
While he is in office the Crown must be a cipher.
It i* somewhat odd shat under these circumstances
he should refer io Mr. M‘Laughlin’s statement
that “ the royal prerogative of is attempted
to be usurped by the Colonial Secretary ”
at “a gratuitous impertinence” How can
the statement be an impertinence if it represents
the fact, as Sir Henry Parkes himself contends
that it dors in his concluding sentence. It would
b 8 interesting to know what Lord Carington
thinks of the matter, but he is clearly of opinion
that the power of yawning was given man to
enable him to conceal his thoughts, and, afeer all,
an inarticulate aw—aw—yaw does not always
give consent.
Judge Docker and the rest of the legal authori-
ties of New South Wales are at issue over what
looks a very simple point. The •) udge holds that
in the case, say, of a prisoner charged with em-
bezzling from his master a sum, first of £5, on
another occasion £5, and on another occasion £5,
thab on the prisoner’s guilt being established in the
first case, and pleading guilty cr being found guilty
in the other cases, he shouli receive a separate
sentence for each, or a cumulative sentence.
Tae judges of the Supreme C mrt, the At'o-ne -
General, and the Minister of Justice hold a con-
trary view, and the Minister hints that should
the judge carry his theory into practice any more
he may be removed from the Bench. The Bulle-
tin urges that Judge Docker is logically right
and that the fact that the authorities above-named
don’t think so is an evidence that they don’t
believe in the deterrent effect of punishment. If
a thief has once committed larceny, the know-
ledge that he can keep on stealing without adding
to hi 3 punishment is likely enough to make him
steal the sheep instead of the lamb. Most of the
legal physicians evidently have no faith in their
own medicine. Neither have we. But, never-
theless .Tudae Docker’s position is logically un-
aa::ail . le.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Republic v. Staffery.
The bold Tom Slatteio wildly asserted in the
New Soubh Wales Legislative Assembly, the
other evening, lhab he had a mortal down on te-
public.’i Rod, furthermore-, that if » presidential
election took place in N-w South Wales to-mor-
row Lord Carington would h*ad the pr 11.
Thomas* your place is at the foot of the class. I a
the first plac' 1 * when t’ e great Australian Re-
public is proclaimed, lords and aliens will have no
place in her councils, will not be recognised
withii her boundaries. Therefore, the idol befo e
whom you reverently bow, Lord Carington, a
British subject, would, on two counts, be ineligible
for the office of President, as also would Sir
Henry Parkes, unless he denuded himself of his
peacock’s feathers. More than that, Thomas, the
coming Republic will not so slavishly copy txist-
iog models as bo incorporate either a Presidentship
or an Upper House iu her constitution. Am* r’c v
blindly moulded her system on that if Great
Britain ; we, profiling by her errors, will evolve
in'o a simpler and purer onp, founded wholly on
the r.ever-alteiiog principle of Freedom and
Truth. In such a sy<tem there wi 1 be r.o fat
places for governors, prefid* nts, lonlt, and
senators, and, it is ti be hrped, little work for
lav yerB. The mole-eyed individuals wl o d >te on
despotism will not be wanti d in such a republ c in
any capicity ; pomp worshippers ard fossils are
out of place iu a communioy of free, strong in-
tellec'ual men. For the autocrat adore - , however,
p’accs * f refuare are plentiful, when; he cm indul/e
in grovel to his heart’s cont* nt. Rus i i, to wit,
and Ireland.
1 lie Republican Parlies.
Sir Henry Parkes’ motion regarding the ap-
pointment of Imperial Governors in Australia
suggests that the ex-Charbist of past years is
feebly atlemp ing in his old age bo pose once more
a 3 the Tribune of the People, and to strike a c m-
pronr'se between God and Mammon. The
National movement has evidently taken the
Father of the Kiaira Ghost by surpr'se. All
through his career he has b*en striving b* do
something origiaal, but never comprehending
where anything original should be done, and while
he was aimlessly potteiing with schemes for build
ing a Deadhouse and for jumping the name of
Australia, MTlwraith called the National
party together, and took the lead with no
one to question his position. Under bis
guidance the movement has grown so rapidly that
the slow moving potentate of New South Wal*s
now finds he must either declaie himself as an
apostle of the new faith or run the risk of being
stranded on the bhores of oblivion among the for-
gotten wrecks of old-time Conservatism ; and the
three-headed resolution which he placed before
the rowdy Assembly in Macquarie-streeb, Sydney,
was a sad and feeble attempt at a compromise be-
tween the utberly irreconcileable principles of Im-
perialism and Independence. It began and ended
wibh an abject apology, and sandwiched in be-
tween the two apologies was adismal, small, washed-
cu‘ offenceagainsbbhedoctrine of divineright which
looked ridiculously small ia comparison with the
preliminary drivel by which it was smothered and
explained away. The whole combination ran
thus: —
We, your Majesty's loyal and dutiful subjects, the
members of the Legislative Assembly of Nev South
Wales, in Parliament assembled, desire to renew the ex-
pr.ssion of our dtvoted attaohment te your Majesty's
throne and person, aad to nepeotfully represent that
circum-t v r&rS^-Occurring in a neighbouring colony have
given rfse to certain grave considerations in relation to
appoint nents to the effiee of Governor. 1. We gratefully
acknowledge the wisdom of the selection of the pre-
sent representative of your Majesty in New South
Wales, who, in the performance of his high duties, has
seoured the respect and confidence cf all classes cf
the inhabitants. 2. In view of the great and grow-
ing iotereets of this colony in connection with the Em-
pire, we desire dutifully to convey to your Majesty the
expression of our opinion that no person in the future
should be appointed to the office of Governor who has not
had experience in the conduct of public affairs in high
political office or in the Impeiial Parliament. 3 Though
no* desirous of interfering with the functions of your
Majesty s Imperial advisers, we humbly submit that it is
desirable and reasonab'e, and in strict accord with the
p-ivileges cons'itutionally conferred upon your Majesty s
Australian subjeots, that in future the Government of the
colony should be iofoimedcf any intended appointment
to the high cffiie of Governor before such appointment is
finally made.
The resolution thus divides itself into three heads
and a preface. Tae preface embedit s nothing
sav t a so'pmn declaration that the people * f New
South Wales continue, under all circu n-
sbancis, to bow in abject homtge to the
British mona ch. Toe next paragraph is a
fulsome laudation of Carington ; and after this
coa es the expression of a chi duke hope that in
future percons as unlike Carington as ptsfible
willb) sent out to rule over New South Wales;
while the closing linn * xp’.aia that if the Imperial
authorities choose to tit on the petitio era and
continue exporting tired out men of fashion—just
like Carington— 1 1 represent the Crown in these
parts, New South Wales can’t help it, and things
will go on just the same as before the was s it o t.
The right of Australia ti have s me voice in the
selection of her own Governors is nowhere in-
sist* d on; on the contrary, the author of the
resolution is cartful to explain that Au&tra’ia
has no such right, and merely asks as a favour to
be granted anything that Britain feels inc’ined to
give her. Ytt. despise its feebleness the utter-
ance of the New South Wa'ei Pailiament has
created a deep sensation in Londor. The idea
*hat any temblance of a pro'rst against Tm
perialism could possibly come from the celony
which sent its feather-bed s< 1 iiers to the
Soudan, filled the B*iti-th legislator! with a
sentiment <f surprise as great as that ex-
perienced by the schoolmaster who is caned by a
small boy in the fourth cla l s; and for the moment
Parkes poses both in England and Australi t as
the coming Tribune of the People. Even
M'Jlwraith sent along an expression of his co*-
dial approva 1 , but then long experience has taught
the Q jeens and Premier that he who expects
much from Parkes shall inevitably be disap-
pointed, and in hit surprise at having received
even a semblance of support from the great
lli-Ham he probably said more than he would
have uttered in a calmer moment.
♦
The London Standard, weeping over the new
difficulty with Queensland, says that the “ want
' of tact ” manifested by the miserable Kxutsford
is the cause of the whole disaster. The Standari >,
like Knutsford, considers that the whole duty of
a British colony is to take any kind of Govern er
that Britain may choose to send, even though he
may be deaf and dumb and paralysed and vacant
in bis mind, but Knutsford, being devoid of tact,
foolishly endeavoured to enforce this principle. If
he had been a judicious Tory, in the estimation of
the Standard, he would have thought a lot and not
t ai J -u. thi g— * l_:ch r cV.n r w’t d *-m* r.t evid.er.tly
means that the Tory dogmas of the day must be
kept in a dry spot and not exposed to the weather.
In other words, the theories of the latter-day
Conservative, like a badly-stuffed mummy,
crumble to dust when the lid is taken off.
Whether it is worth while owning principles which
are not to be put into practice is a somewhat diffi-
cult question, but in the opinicn of the Standard
the plausible fossil of the d »y should cling w ith a
tenaciofis grasp to the old dojtiines of divine right
and he wen sent absolutism, but should say noth-
ing about them, and when ariybodv, even on* tenth
his own sizp, tramp< htavily on his cherished gods
he shouM applaud him for doing it and say “all
litee.” In short, the Tory of the present era is in-
formed by his own especial ere an that he must
only be a Tory when there is nobody looking, and
the rest of the time he must be a dcubled-up
apology for a Republican in order to save himself
from being kick-d. Of such is the kingdom cf
British polit cs.
♦
President Purves, of the Australian Natives
Association, h-s se*mingly turned tail on his
recent prohsbati ns that “separation from
the dear old mother country is inevitable ”
Tne Imprialists have nobbled him, and
the other dav the apostate “firebrand”
went down to Kyneton in company with
Ra-oceb Clarke, *o paint a beautiful picture of a
Federated Australia, g iverned by a member of
the Royal family As the Australian Nativts’
Annotation has no p licy beyond the utterances
of Purves io may now be regarded as incor-
poraitd with the I mp? rial Federation League, of
which labt< r Native Sir William Clarke has
always been a member. Under thne circum-
stances the A.N.A. can confidently hop'* (o be
taken up by the Argus and Sydney Morning
Herald at the first convenient opportunity.
An elaborate scheme is now on foot for shipping
Mr. Gooduhap, ex-Commissioner of New S >uth
Wales railwavs, to the beloved mother-land on a
political mission which will keep him safely out of
the way till aft*r next general election. An awk-
ward impression has arisen that Mr. Goodohap,
if he is not previously dispose 1 of, may be inclined
toccntest the Red ern s-at, and if he dim the
crust of the venerable “Honest John” utheh
land will ineviiably le busted beyond repair, so
arrangements are being made to despatch the ex-
Commissioner “home,’ at a cist of £4OOO,
that he may ponder over certain unspecified
details of British railway mvnagemenb, and c >me
hack stored wioh facts and general information.
Of course it is understood that Mr. Eddy, who
has just arrived from Scotland, knows all that
Mr. Goodohap is going ho no to learn, and that if
he doesn’t he should nev* r have been appointed ;
and it is generally recogni ed that in any case
Mr. Goodchap has no further connection with the
railway system of New South Wales, and even if
he returns stoked up with railway knowledge
which was never known in Australi * before he will
have no chance of put ing it to any possible use ;
but the “ mission ” cn wh : ch he is to be
despatched will give the remains of poor o’d
Sutherland a show for another term at R-d-
-fern, and £4OOO paid out of the colonial Tre i-
sury is not too high a price for such a public
benefit Sutherland s ossified intellect was ntver
of much use in the Cabinet, but he is a harmle s
fossil who votes straight and asks comparatively
few awkward questions and never makrs a row, and
consequently his loss would be well-nigh irre-
parable to the Parkes Administration. His
presence, too, lends respectability to the
motl-y caravan of the great Hi-Ham ; he
is more sober and less insolvent than
several of the Government following, and if he
knows nothing about h : s Department and has
had no technical educ ition which qualifies him to
tell a locomotive from a kangaroo that is ho reason
why Goodchap should geb into Parliament. Si
the ex-Commissioner is, as at present arranged, to
travel through Europe in search of knowledge
which Commissioner Eddy will throw under the
table on his return, and the patient old mule of a
country is as usual to pay the bill.
♦
The cable announces the death of Viscounb Port-
man at the age of 89, and the Australian d aily
press tells us all about his honours and dignities,
bub nobhing about how he manag d his estates.
For many years the colossal p.-operti s of this
decrepid old monopolist have Been shepherded
and added t> by his agents and his heirs, for
Viscount Portman was ore of the great rack-rent-
ing landlords of London, and leaves behind him
millions up n millions wrung directly from the
toil anl the scraping and pinching of those
whom he ironically c lied his ‘ tenants.” You
wen a eh ipicee; e •, *ay, and bock a plica of
business on lease from Viscount Postman s agent.
When yocr seven years’ lease was uphewoall.
give you another lease —oh, yes. You would have
to pay him, s ly, 20 per cent, more rent and a
£2OOO bonus for the renewal, and as often as not
you would have to spend as a further condition of
that renewal a thiusand or two in impr viDg
Viscount's Portman's premises, which, in any case,
you had to keep stii tly in erder under penalty of
ejectment. NotLng ag > a large number of leases
on Portman s huge Lendon property fell in and
he made a million or two in cash by blackmailing.
And now the new Viscount Portman, another
grey-beaded old grabster, takes up the lasb. How
long, O Lord, how long ?
+
During the Electoral Bill discussion in the Vic-
torian Assembly Sir Bryan O’Loghlen moved
the insertion of a clause (unfortunately negatived)
for the registration of vo'es only in the consti-
tuency of residence. That such a measure is
necessary is obvious to all except owners of pro-
perty, who believe that lives ate not represented
in the H mse, but only money-bags Look at the
state of things in the electorate of East Sydney
where the massed vote of the Ci\il Service and the
mercantile interest always swamps that of the
humble proletarian dwellers in the district. While
property u-urps the plurality of votes, anl land,
or brick and Btone, is represented at the ballot-box,
it is absurd to detcriba the colonies as having
embraced Manhood Suffrage.
The mental resemblance between Cardinal Moran
and Sir Samuel Griffith, ex-Premier of Queens-
land, is noticeable in recent events The Cardinal
lost his chance of stepping into his uncle's shoes as
Archb'shop of Dublin, ttrrough the Irish people
fearing that his sympathies were with England in-
stead of with Ireland. At all events he was taken
for a “ Castle ” pa'riot, if for a patriot at all. Sir
Samuel Griffith stood in a precisely similar
position at the lime of the lasb general elections
in Queensland. la each case an impetuous
Nationalist was victorious. The Cardinal, in
stead of resenting the defeat or striving farther
for his old cause, quietly moved in among the
v cbor'U’ ranks n i ■ D»»ly advaT-cd to th" front
row, and has now established himself among the
leaders in the new direction. In Queensland
Nationalism, Sir Samuel Griffith uses the same
tactics. Both are coldly observant and rapacious
for power, and it augurs well for the near success
of Irish and Queensland Nationalism when men
like these play so craftily for front places in the
movement.
Writes Rev. Charles Strong ia his magazine
“ Our Good Words ” for November
The Centennial year is to be distinguished hy an execu-
tion in Melbourne Gaol On the Bth, a man is to be
hanged lor a bru'al murder ... If the only ground
on which we can justify hanging is our fears, why, o i the
same principle, not torture and maim, and make the death
painful and lingering ? This, according to the fear theory,
would aot as a deterrent, and if fear is our principle, we
ought to stick at nothing which fear would prompt us to
do. “ Hut this would be degrading and demoialisiug.
The cure would be worse than the d sease. ’ Exactly so.
But the question is -At what point does it become d--
moral sing and degrading? Would you draw the line
short of hot pixieis, or suffocation, or a public spectacle
outside the gaol, or a gallows, or death itself in any form,
or where ? Such questions may be discussed in a maudlin,
sentimental way, but thfy are none the less questions for
the Christian conscience. Wordsworth wrote sonnets on
Capital Punishment -very unworthy sonnets so far as
poetiy is concerned. Wealvise our readers to turn to
them, and then read Lowell'ssoanets addressed to Words-
worth.
The case between Mr. Parnell and the London
Times prom'ses to last till the human race is old
and Very tire d. Among the written evidence to te
perused are 40 hundro 1 weight o c documents of all
shapes, sizes and desci iptions, and of variousdegrees
of dirtier s«, ferocity, and scdi ion ; and on top of
all this 400 witnesses have to be examined on noth
sides. Then other witnesses will want to be called
to testify as to the credibility of the first 400, and
other documents will require to be read in ord* r
to prove the authenticity of the two tors above
referred to. and both pirtits seem likely to faint
before the job is hdf through. Thirteen thousand
pounds hive already been subscribed to pay legal
expenses on beha’f of the uncrowned King of
Ireland, and probably £lOO,OOO more will be sub
scribed and shallowed up before the matter is
finished, if it ever finishes at all. Even the Times
b'ds fair t) be covered with mortgages by the
time it se - s the last of its famous case; and the
Commission of Judges will probab’y end its days
in a lunatic asylum, and drivel in its imbecile
old age about dray-loads of treasonable papers,
an! dead cam Is whose backs wtro broken
waile struggling to hump evidence along to
convict Parnell, and ships that foun-
der* d through being overloaded with witnesses,
and various other features of a trial which
already iromises to break the famous Tich-
BORt» E record into small “ pi.” The lawyers
emp’oyed mostly recognise that they have got a
liliet fo- life, and the more tanguine hops to hand
down their vtsted interest in the job to the'r sons
and grandsons, with an off chance that the thii d
generation may find the ewe still boonfing
te-enely along in the year 1950, and may be in
tii e to make a little money out of it even then.
Io fact, if the Parnell inquiry tver ends at aU ii
will most likely bn through the judicious a; plica-
ti >u of violence. There is no p saceful solution of
the problem anywhere in sight.
Acc irdino to a “ New Map of Europe,” recently
published by the New York Herald, there will
bo a great wiping out of kingdom when the
pr s ut King of Holland goes up to dwell with
William the Sil> nt in the fields of Paradise. The
Netherlands will be swalloved up by the Gorman
Empire, and the Princess Wilhklmina will either
succeed as a tributary sovereign or else will be
bounced out of the list of European potentates as
the blind monarch of Hamver wai in 18(30.
Luxembourg, part of Be'gium and all the Dutch
colonies will also go to the realm of the Kaiters ;
Francs will receive the remaining fragment of
Belgium; and in deference to the Christian law
of political compensation, wh’ch provides thit
when one nation steals the territory of a second it
is justifiable for a third nation to iquare matters
by devouring a fourth, Austria is to have all
Servia, Albania, and Western Turkey down to
Salonika, and Russia is to take whatever she
wants in the way of Constantinople, Asiat c
Turkey, Central Asia, Persia, Affghanistan, and
anything else which may chance to be lying around
loose. Half-a-doz sn kingdoms will be wiped out,and
sundry potentates will drift into the workhouse for
frozen out moaarchs, and ano her advance will le
made towards the realisation of the Old World s
destiny—the swallowing up of everything by one
huge, overgrown empire, and then the fall of that
empire by i s own weight, and chaos. It is an
attractive li.ila progtanme, though as usual it
presents sundry weak points which, of course, the
prophets have not taken into considtration The
Czar who leads a prf carious existence in a coat of
mail with a tail of boiler-metal, is htrdly likely to
last loog erough for any elaborate schemes ( f con-
quest ; and the German Chancellor, whos * last
three hairs have long sinco vanished, is iu the seie
aad yellow leaf and.it growing go tty atd feeble.
Then th*re are small contingencies in the way of
Sicia ism and other r*vcl lticmry m v ments, and
the long exp cted upheaval of Islam and the grow-
ing National mov* ment iu India may both require
to bo reck mid with—and in short trie new “ Map
of Europi ’ may not be huDgupm the wall just
yet It will, no doubt, be iuspmd*d there borne
day, for H llaDd and Turkey and Persia and th s
Indian empire ate all slowly dying of premature
old age and senile decay, bub who is to have them
when they drop to pieces Heaven alone can tell.
A squatter on the MurrumUdgee employs
blocks as shearers, wbil < the gins act as cooks and
laundresses on the s'ation.
The Victorian polico are to have the
privilege of going to the po'l. Iu the past they
got there all the same— whh a club.
When next you ' ake try Pemell's Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and jour bread will be as white as snow


B
EN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACIARDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Aocount Book Manufacturer, &c., &c.
Maclardy's £5 Box of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List of Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B. —Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fanoy Goods. Inspection invited.
“My Tailor,” 154 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Suits to measure for £3 3s.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLE MONT
& CO., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Carington
“ By Appointment.”
CORRESPONDENCE
“ T.L.8.” : There is only one safe rule in exer-
cising the municipal franchise in Sydney. Always vote
against the people who are in. The Town Hall festers
unless it be constantly swept out " Steno ’’(Sydney) •
i. “ The Country Wife ” was written by Wycherley, “ The
Maid's Tragedy” by Beaumont arid Fletcher, and “ The
Relapse ”by Sir John Vanbrugh. You can get the works
of these writers at the prinoipal booksellers. 2. Martial’s
epigrams range over almost every topic that can be dis-
cussed. Tho social habit 3 and customs of the Romans in
the first century of the Empire take up most of the lines.
Martial is witty, imaginative, polished, but often, in
modern eyes, indecent. 3. Pitman’s system is supposed
to be the best. 4. Those who blame a paper for
" throwing over its policy ” have it in their power
to ‘‘throw over” the paper " J.E.T.” (Wilson
River): Have nothing to do with him “Meteor”
(Queensland): Handed to artist. Write again, please.
.. “ G.A.” (Sydney): No. Lord Augustus Loftus
is not a viscount; as a matter of fact, he is only a lord
“by courtesy"—whatever that may mean “R.J.J.”
(Brisbane): We regard £1 per head as an exorbitant
figure for the scalp of the common or yellow Chinaman,
and your estimate that their skins will fetoh £5 a dozen
is absurd on the face of it. We are afraid there isn’t
much money in the Chow-destroying industry... .“Single
Tax”: We have “given the subject the attention it de-
serves.” Protection may not “ have done much for the
labouring classes of America,” but it has helped to bring
to that country, in the last 00 years, over 10,000,000 Euro-
pean emigrants, who, in their own fatherlands, were mostly
paupers ; and has enabled it to find work for nearly all of
them at the highest average rate of wages paid anywhere
on earth. According to Freetrader Mulhall, the average
Englishman makes 31s. per week ; the Australian, 40s. ;
and the American 48s. Perhaps you don’t think little
things like these worth considering, though. We object
to monopoly as strongly as you do, but we don’t want to
break it up by leaving nothing but borrowed money to
monopolise “ Sailor Bill ” (Paterson): Much obliged....
“ L.A.” : Why listen to the stupid Jingoisms of Angus
Cameron? “L.W.” : The Whiteohapel murderer may,
after all, very likely prove the greatest benefactor that the
poor of the East End of London ever had. Thousands
and thousands of the richer classes who were never
through the East End in their lives will now visit it out
of curiosity and have an opportunity of seeing how the
penniless street-walker (one of the women lately slain) goes
in to pawn her man’s boots while he stands outside in his
bare feet “Rusticus”: Thanks “P.8.G.": Thanks
for verses “ J.J.8.” (Sydney): Your ideas are novel—
so novel, in fact, that they would be likely to raise a riot
either in a Conservative club or a gathering of Anarchists.
They are mixed and ungrammatical, also, and it would
require more money than has ever existed in the world to
put them into execution, consequently we hold them
over “Subscriber”: Thanks for it5m.....“ W.C.”
(Parramatta Asylum) : If you have a legitimate grievance
you should complain to the Colonial Secretary, who will
duly inquire “ C. 8.” (W. Maitland): The faot that you
yourself say that your poems are good is rather against
you “ Wasp ”: (1) There is only one best, The Bulle-
tin. (2) You don't pan out muoh as a poet. Your father
must have lots of money to let you carry on as you do
“ J.N.K." (Napier, N.Z.): Thanks for poem. It will
keep. This is vague, but we don’t want to hurt your
feelings ! In the words of Te Whiti, “ the potato is
c00ked.”....“ W.L." (Ultimo): We cannot undertake to
solve knotty legal questions “P.W.M.” (Bundaberg):
Your prophecy is interesting, but the scheme doesn’t
seem to hold water. Supposing the head of Nebuchad-
nezzar’s image to represent the Babylonian supremacy—
which may be roughly said to start with Merodach-
Baladan—then the millennium is a lob overdue ; and if,
on the other hand, the thinking organ of the image re-
presents the Assyrian Empire, then the seoond coming
can’t be reckoned upon for 4000 years yet, and Alexander
the Great wants to be shifted a long way up the diagram.
Also Ilazael never ruled over Assyria, or Babylon either,
bo he can’t represent any of them, and if the head of the
spectre means foreign dominion over Israel, the only
Syrian who at all fills the bill is Ben-hadad—and he didn’t
rule Israel much at any time. Anyhow, these parties are
all dead now, and we have ceased to care about them to
any extent “Nationalist” (Sydney): We said last
week, in answer to a correspondent, that we did not think
that Australian Nationalists will ever require to draw the
sword to secure autonomous government; at the same
time we agree with you that Australia should be prepared
for anything. If the defences of Sydney, Brisbane, Mel-
bourne, and the other chief ports are not sufficient to
repel an attack of a British fleet, they are not adequate
for our defence from enemies of Britain who would con-
sider the colonies fair game in case of war—and therein
lies the reason why Australia would be safer without
the British connection. The raison d’etre of the
defence forces of the Australias is distinctly Imperial;
they have sworn allegiance to the Queen, and self-interest
makes the officers, at least, British in their sympathies.
As the watch-cry of the Australian Nationalists is “ Aus-
tralia for the Australians,” they should make it a fore-
most plank of their platform that Australia should be
prepared to defend herself, with the arms of Australians,
against the ivorld. The oath of allegiance to the Queen
of Britain should be revoked in the case of our military,
who should swear fealty alone to the Government of the
land of their birth or adoption—leaving it to that Govern-
ment to take sides in the event of war “ My Father's
Faith ”: M‘ll wraith’s action in re Governor Blake is cer-
tainly “ both improper and disloyal ’’—from an Imperial
point of view.. Logos”: The N.S.W. deficit of 188 G
was £838,732 17s. lid. The deficit of 1877 was
£1,472,115 Is. 7d “ A.H.M.”: Please call “Incline
Jackson” (Elsternwick, Vic.): Received “ R.C.M.”
(Dunedin, N.Z.): Thanks “ Condor” (Rockhampton) :
Your tale might perhaps go down with the maritime
cavalry “WSJ.”: It’s all very fine for Premier
Parkes to say that the N.S.W. Opposition are unable to
substantiate the charges of corruption made against
Ministerial politicians. But it does not necessarily fol-
low because the charges are at present unprovable that
they are untrue. -
The Christmas Number of The Bulletin
will undoubtedly be the greatest literary and
artistic success yet published in Australia. The
writers and artists were alike inspired by Mar-
shall’s Tonic Nervine, and thus they easily get
ahead of all rivals.
Alfred’s Fire.
Last Saturday night the Sydney Evening News
and Town and Country Journal offices were
gutted by a fire which involved the utter de-
struction of many choice gems of literature and
a 'splendid collection of printing-machinery. On
Monday afternoon, however, the News came out
punctually : the local Herald and Telegraph
proprietaries had courteously placed at Messrs.
Bennett’s disposal the resources of their respective
offices, and the Herald’s offer had been accepted.
The News, which appeared for the first time in a
black coat and a white choker, allee same Echo, was
on Monday a powerful illustration of the differ-
ence which is made by a suit of clothes. It was in
point of fact so nicely turned out by the Messrs.
Fairfax that we would recommend Alfred to
seriously consider whether he should not have it
printed at the Herald office regularly.
• *
Strange are the things that may happen to a
man in Australia ! Just imagine Alfred Bennett
kneeling down before James Fairfax in the
Herald sanctum and confessing liis circulation to
the Hunter-street millionaire ! And just imagine
the well-simulated air of placid surprise with which
James remarks i “ Dear me, Mr. Bennett! is that
really all 1 Only 400,000 a night ? You surely
don’t say so ! ”
- ft
Messrs. Bennett have during the week received
many hearty messages of condolence. Governor
Carington called with tears on tap and yawned
twice over the ghastly wreck, and Colonial
Treasurer Burns appeared and told the stricken
newspaper-men to go right along and get their big
weekly put through at the Government Printing
Office. Let us all fervently hope that none of
Alfred’s cookery-recipes may get mixed up with
the departmental type and be issued as official
proclamations in the Government Gazette.
Should such a thing happen we shall be poisoned
by our wife to a dead certainty.
There is nothing very fresh about the N.S.W.
Government printing a newspaper. There are
lots of newspapers in Sydney, some of them dailies,
too, which couldn’t be printed without the Govern-
ment. And that s just what’s the matter with
them.
* « *
_ Yet none the less doe 3 this thoughtful, well-
timed act of Treasurer Burns fill us with joy and
admiration. In our mind’s eye, Horatio, can we
see Parkes and Burns arm-in-arm before the
smoking ruins of The Bulletin office and saying
to us with sympathetic tremulousness, as we hat-
less stand on the red-hot threshold: “Boys, we
are really sorry for you. Come along with us up
to the G.P.0.” Yes, we can see Burns falling
upon our neck and weeping, and we can hear him
calling us his brother and saying to us : “Put
your paper through our presses. There is only
one condition —that you shall not irreverently
mention Parkes’ name in your coming number ” ;
and we can see our entire staff sit up as one man
and shriek that such an unprecedented thing
would be utterly impossible. And we can hear
Parkes tell us to “go ahead and may heaven
bless us, but we must not allude to Treasurer
Burns as ‘ Cocky ’ in any Bulletin printed by the
Government ”; and we can likewise hear him say
that we must mention nothing about Abigail’s
bank, or about loans at IGO per cent, or about
anybody’s insolvency. And then we can picture
ourselves arising and telling the tempter to be-
gone, and saying that we were very sorry but we’d
be compelled to mention all these things, as the
Queensland-Governor boom wouldn’t last for ever,
and a man must always keep something to fall
back upon.
• • •
Only yesterday we had half a mind to sit down
and write to Alfred Bennett, pointing oub to him
that his evening newspaper having been purified
by fire, he had now a splendid opportunity of
making a fair and absolutely virtuous start in life
—adding, at the same time, some few little tin-
pot moral ideas of our own as to a policy which, if
adopted for the future, would make his name
exhale a sweet and savoury odour round at the
Y.M.C.A., and would cause his journal to be ac-
cepted as a classic at the University. But, on re-
flection, we decided to be silent in the hour of
sorrow. We will now merely say that any small
service in our power shall be cheerfully rendered.
We have on hand a large basket of stale but
shocking clippings from the police columns of the
Yankee penny-dreadfuls, and if these blood-
curdling things will in any way help to pull him
through he may take the lob (cheap) with our best
blessing—always provided that he will give a bond
under seal not to put our portrait in the Town
and Country J ernil when we are cold and dead.
# •
Over this big fire, the damage done by which is
estimated at £60,000, the other Sydney papers,
though they kept their hearts, certa’nly lost their
heads. Just look at this, the commencement of
four columns, in the Sydney D.T.
The whole of Saturday was heavy with the mysterious
sense of a coming evil. For some nights before, the
moon had risen as red as a ball of molten lead.
That’s it! The Man in the Moon had painted the
darned concern blood-colour because the Evening
News office was going to burn. And where did
thab D T. man ever see red molten lead, or molten
red lead ! However, reporters do see curious
things in this hot weather. The D.T. chronicler
proceeds:—
For some time the interest of the crowd was centred in
“ Meroury,” the graoeful lifesize bronze representation of
the winged god, which surmounted the centre of the
building. Many were the speculations as to how long
“ he ” would stand the heat, and whether he would kill a
fireman or two. There he stood in running posture,
holding aloft his magic wand, and as the flames at length
broke out from the roof and leapt at him with a roar as
of wild exultation he looked a frail creature indeed. The
figure was enveloped in a mass of fire, which played it
round with caressing tongues of flame.
No wonder Mercury wouldn’t come down from
the top of Alfred’s office. Mercury is the God of
Liars, and always having had comfortable and
congenial quarters he stayed there to the very last.
We would do the same ourselves. We were at the
spot, by the way, and saw him leave. As the
cruel forked flames ran up his nostrils he gave one
wild despairing shriek—which sounded like “ Cir-
culation Half-a-Million nightly !” toppled over,
and fell headlong amongst the hissing ruins.
[We are prepared to write columns in this strain
to order. ]
We do not blame Alfred Bennett for losing his
presence of mind amidst the misfortunes of the
insurance companies. We can quite understand
how it happened that on Sunday morning he went
to the smoking pile and rebuked the assembled
staff for not having stuck to their posts and
printed a full report of the fire in the eleventh
edition. But we were utterly unprepared for the
miserable and degrading mental collapse of the
D.T. sub-editor, who allowed a Market street oil-
and-colour man to trade off this upon him in a
time of mental excitement: —
I waß, of course, greatly relieved to find our place was
safe, as, though we are insured, our stock, more especially
the mantelpieces and gasfibtings, are of speoial and choice
patterns that are unique in Sydney and cannot be replaoed
under six months.
• 9 *
Should any more newspaper fires happen in
Sydney, the newspaper-advertising business will
go bung. Let us whisper softly in your ear :
That oil-and-colour man got at the Hebald in
similar terms ! He was the only cool person in
Sydney on Saturday night His intellect was
Tainted with asbestos and kept on ice all the time.
t was a wonder he didn’t try and make the D.T.
say that that mo m of theirs was painted with his
best red lead. If he had said so they would have
passed ib on for him. They would have passed on
anything
While the bishops, parsons, churchwardens,
deacons, elders, Sunday-school teachers, Christian
young men, and all who live, directly or in-
directly, on the profession of piety, are forever
wondering “ how the Churches can check the
growing scepticism ” of this wicked age, it is a
melancholy fact that the Churches have given up
all idea (if they ever had any) of inducing the in-
dividual sceptic to accept a full salvation. There
are many bearers of glad tidings to the unclothed
heathen; there are missionaries for the civilised
working-man whose religious education has been
neglected ; there are churches, chapels, and Little
Bethels for all who hunger and thirst after right-
eousness, or pretend to. But nobody tackles the
wild agnostic in his lair. Let such a one
take up his villa residence in a new parish
and what happens ? In due course a man with
long hair calls to enquire which place of worship
the new.arrival wishes to patronise. Themis-
guided wretch answers that he attends no place of
worship at all. Then the visitor leaves off looking
like a brother in Grace and mumbles something
about Moses and the Prophets. And when the
other man expresses doubts about Moses, it in-
variably happens that his visitor gathers up his
tracts and takes the glad tidings next door. He
never returns. The parson doesn’t come to that
house. No more charity circulars, even, are
stealthily poked under the door. There are ser-
mons, church conversaziones, tea-fights, special
prayer meetings, and what not for the ninety and
nine just parishioners who need no repentance,
but that wandering sheep is left to die in the
wilderness. Yet, to hear the apostles of snuffle
talk, one might think they were burning for an
opportunity to convert the educated unbeliever,
and drag him into the fold by a chain of incontro-
vertible Christian evidences. Not they, however.
A parson’s house is always open to any of his well-
dressed pew-renters who call to exchange con-
gratulations with their shepherd on the saved con-
dition of their respective souls. But let any man
in Sydney call upon a pastor of his parish, saying,
“ I don’t accept the Bible as inspired. I believe it
to be considerably apocryphal. lam not a Chris-
tian in the Ohurch sense of the term. Can you
reason me out of my scepticism ?” The parson
will ask that man to go away immediately and re-
pent while there is time.
Jim and Joe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sun had burnt his way through city smoke.
For breakfast-hour was past, and in the street
The myriad workers, bound in Labour’s yoke,
Passed up or down, on firm or feeble feet;
And of the men thus passing to and fro
Were Jim the stalwart and the aged Joe.
The street was long and straight, and years ago
The twain were wont to meet midwav, for Jim
Went daily down to work, while aged Joe
Came daily up, and thus encountered him ;
And at the spot Jim looked for Joe, and while
The crowd surged by, Joe answered with a smile,
But time went on, and midway in the street
The crowds still surged, and Jim looked round
for Joe ;
But Joe was toiling up on slower feet
A dozen yards below the spot, and so
Jim thought, in passing, “ Joe is falling back ;
He can’t keep time, as once, in the old track !”
And years again, Jim striding down the street
To catch the work that passed with rapid pace,
Encountered Joe, on slower, feebler feet,
Another dozen yards below the place
Where first they met, when sun had burnt
through smoke
On myriad workers bound in Labour’s yoke.
And farther down, and farther still below,
As time went by, Jim, looking through the
crowd,
Espied the tott’ring form of aged Joe
Advancing slowly, with the white head bowed ;
And Jim thought, “Joe will never meet me more
Half up the street, as in the days of yore !”
And one day Jim walked down the street, and Joe
Was nowhere to be seen ; and at the end
Jim stood and murmured, “ As I thought, ’tis so;
No more he’ll meet me, as my way I wend ;
For years we met; but lower, time by time,
For age was bound to yield to lusty prime !”
The sun had burnt his way through smoke, and so
Jim turned once more into the street, and said :
“No more, or in the middle, or below,
While myriad workers haste for daily bread,
Will Joe pass by and I pass on by Joe,
For prime is lusty and old age is slow !”
But while he spoke Joe’s coffin’s passed him by,
And Jim took off his hat, and said : “ I see,
’Tis true a man to do his best must die !
Now, Joe, alive, has never passed by me
At this part of the street —for lusty prime
Was always able for the quicker time.
“Bub this is proof that we are weak and vain
Who pride ourselves on strength to purpose
wed,
Or plume ourselves on speed of valiant brain,
For, after all, the dead man gets ahead.
And if the world dropped dead to-day, I know
We all would be ‘ahead,’ like aged Joe.”
Sydney, 1888.
E. LOWE.
Poor Di Murskn.
Anyone who wants to sermonize may
find a fruitful text in the fate of poor lima di
Murska, who, we read in the papers, has been
found starving and imbecile in New York, where
it is to be hoped she will find friends, since that
city has been the scenes of many of the most
liberal actions of her impulsively generous life.
The sermon should, alas ! be one in favour of
selfishness, for had lima di Murska been selfish
she would be an extremely wealthy woman. As
it is, if everybody who has benefited by her bound-
less generosity would restore to her but 5 per
cent, of the amounts they owe to her bounty, she
would be placed far above want for the rest of her
natural life. “ Ouida ” describes great singers
as having “ the throats of thrushes and the maws
of sharks.’ That this has been true of many of
them cannot be gainsaid, though, fortunately, our
famous English singers are not open to the chal’ge,
as those who knew Clara Novello, Anna Bishop,
and Charlotte Sainton Dolby can testify, and
certainly beside the names of those nobly generous
women may be written that of our friend the eccen-
tric bub much-wronged and ill-treated Di Murska,
For one thing alone that she did the
hearts of the whole of her profession should be
turned to her in the hour of her distress. In
1873 she was engaged by Madame Pauline
Lucca as the prima soprano leggiera of
an opera troupe that artist was taking to
Havanna. The authorities make it a rule
that all theatrical managers shall give bonds
before landing a troupe that the mem-
bers of the company shall not be left destitute
at y 1 c harge the State, and these bonds
Madame Lucca, a very rich woman, gave without
hesitation. But the speculation proved a dire
failure, and Lucca, not caring to pay the enormous
losses, secretly sent away her jewellery and valu-
ables and then tried to escape in disguise. She
was arrested on board the steamer, and in a rage
defied the authorities and refused to pay a cent.
The salaries were all in arrear, the company were
stranded without means, and the choristers, or-
chestra, and others of the small fry were face to
face with starvation. In this strait, Di Murska
came to their rescue. She telegraphed to her
agents in New York and they cabled to her
bankers in Vienna, whence money was instantly
sent out. She paid the liabilities of the unhappy
artists and franked them all to New York, and
the season’s engagements having all been made,
so that they were at a disadvantage, she supplied
them all with money to carry on with until they
could find work. This generous freak cost up-
wards of £lOOO sterling, besides the exceedingly
heavy loss on exchange caused by the abnormal
difference between cash and currency in New York.
* • •
It is more than 23 years ago since, on May
11, 1805, Mdle. lima di Murska, then a most ex-
quisitely beautiful girl and a vocalist of miraculous
skill, made her first appearance in London at Her
Majesty’s Theatre. She created a sensation far
exceeding that which Patti had made at her debtit
four years previously, and she sang for two seasons
with wonderful success. Her lovely fair hair, dark
eyes and eyelashes, her light, alert figure, her
graceful dancing, her extraordinary dramatic
power, and the almost unparalleled range of her
voice, which was clear, true and even up to F in
altissimo astounded the cleverest of the critics and
charmed the frequenters of the opera. Her “Dino-
‘ Lucila,” and “ Lucia” were pronounced
matchless, and the Times christened her “the
Lovely Hungarian Nightingale.” At the height
of her popularity she disappeared, and scandal,
never silent, connected the King of Prussia with
the flight of the fair singer. She returned as sud-
uoDly as sh© had I.6ft, and though in tho mcantim©
the debtit of Christine Nilsson had diverted the
public attention, she regained much of her old
popularity, appearing with wonderful success in
the “ Miegende Hollandu” of Wagner, and the
Mignon ”of Ambroise Thomas. She was also
exceedingly popular as Ophelia in the “ Hamlet ”
of the last-named composer. After singing a year
or two in England, she went to New York, where
she became a greal favourite, and after touring
America with much success, made her first appear-
ance in San Francisco on May 10, 1875, ten years
short one day, from the date of her debut in
London.
* * *
After a singularly successful season in San
Francisco, she sailed for Australia on June 21st
and landed in Sydney on July 22nd, 1875. She
elected to begin her Australian tour in Victoria
where she literally coined money, her profits for a
very few nights aggregating £2OOO. On Nov. 19bh
of the same year she made her first appearance in
Sydney, at the old Masonic Hall, but that proving
to be too small for the crowds that attended she
transferred her concerts to the Exhibition Build-
ing. It was in Sydney that she made the terrible
mistake of her marriage with a young man already
stricken for death, who almost instantly left her
and, after transferring her money to his bankers,’
willed it all to his own family, so that she
presently left Australia no richer than she entered
it. She married again directly after his death,
in order, she said, to show her contempt for his
memory, but her motives and his are alike unsolv-
able. After her second marriage, to Mr. John
Hill, in New Zealand, she returned to America
and thence to London, where she remained for
many years only singing at intervals, one of the
chief episodes of her operatic career being her ap-
pearance as “Josephine” during the “Pinafore”
craze in an Italian translation of that opera.
* • • ’
The eccentricities of poor Di Murska were
much exaggerated by people who were interested
in keeping her apart from the world. She was
really a simple, easy, credulous, kindly creature,
easily misled, almost incapable of any exertion
outside her profession, and quite careless
of luxury or display. Her foibles were unim-
portant, her good qualities many. Her musical
training was perfect. No one could tell by
watching her when she took breath, or if she ever
took it at all. Roulades and trills and cadenzas
came at will without pause or effort. Her voice
a little metallic, as light voices are apt to be, was
yet tuneful and true, and her intonation so even
and perfect that her singing was more like that of
a lark in the air than of a human being Some of
her tours de force were wonderful. She used to
sing a Hungarian air, with variations by Doppler,
during which, after a bewildering series of un-
accompanied cadenzas, she sang a descending
chromatic scale of two octaves, alighting finally
on the note the flute was waiting to take up
never swerving a hair’s-breadbh of a tone. Any
vocalist who will essay this extraordinary feat will
understand its difficulty.


BWKET BOKONIA, the New Perfume. Manu
factured from th West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold Everywhere. Price, 3s 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East,
MELBOURNE.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal bo the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B.—Only two hours from Melbourne.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whiti
PAiis«r Robbss Floub. It is the greatest suooeßs of the
»ge.
100 GEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Australia, Coogee.
The short journey to this enchanting bay is almost en.
tirely through open country, with scenery unsurpassed on
any tram-line out of Sjdney.
The TOBOGGAN RINK,
a recognised success, the intense speed and delightfully
exhilarating sensation far exceeding all inventions of the
kind, combined with ensured safety.
The Magnificent SWIMMING BATHS,
with saltwater from the deep ocean continually flowing
through, and freshwater shower laid on.
Saturday Afternoon—Special Holiday Programme.
SUNDAY NEXT tST The POPULAR CONCERT.
Distinguished Artistes !
Numbers from Favourite Operas !
Admission, Ib. ; Childrbn, 6d.
A, E. STOPFORD, Manage!
Sundry Shows.
Theatbe Royal.— “ Struck Oil ”, p. 14.
Heb Majesty’s.— s ' The Rajah ”
Gbitbbion.— “The Private Secretary ”....... „
Haymaeket Music Hall.— Harry Rickards ~
Somewhere about three years have elapsed
since Lizzie Stofel last raised her fresh young voice
in the City of the Beautiful Harbour, and last Satur-
day the management of Sydney Royal realised
that there was again a favourable opening for this
little maiden from the land of Sbairmany. About
once in a long time all Australia begins to yearn
for another look at “ Struck Oil,” and a long-felt
want arises which only Maggie Moore can
adequately supply. Then that bow-backed,
raw-boned, doubled-up hyama, Deacon Skin-
ner, is aroused from his lair and comes forth
to be a lean and inconsolable eyesore before the
public gaze, and to swindle the widow and the
grass-orphan while he waltzes to the strains of a
holy hymn; and John Stofel wastes the intellect
that he was accustomed to mend boots with, in a
vain chase after the phantom of military glory,
and comes back to his old home without any sole
to his brain. How he ever strikes that old home
again is a mystery, for after he loses the use of
his organ of reflection and gives way to the erro-
neous idea that he is the Emperor of Jamberoo,
he is simply fired out loose into the territories of the
United States to go where he likes, and the chance
for a given lunatic to strike a given village in
that vast area is about equal to that of an old,
lame, deaf, rheumatic, clay-encrusted savage who
shuts his eyes and fires an arrow backwards over
the top of his head at midnight in a heavy snow-
storm on the off-chance of hitting the edge of a
threepenny-piece which is lying among the grass
and has a dog sleeping on top of it about two
miles away. And, in addition to these heavy odds,
Mr. Stofel suffers from the disadvantage of not
knowing who he is and not wanting to go any-
where, and as he doesn’t know the village when
he sees it, and the inhabitants don’t know him,
there is a great improbability to be wrestled with
and overcome. But “ Struck Oil ” has always
prospered, despite this little disadvantage,
and it has existed so long in these colonies
that it has become an essential feature of
Australian history. No one knows now when it
first started, but when Captain Cook landed in
these parts he was interviewed by a naked native
with a large club who tried by dumb pantomime
to sell him a ticket for a front seat; and that
wearisome New Zealander, of whom Macaulay
wrote, will probably sit it out before he runs for
the train which is to take him away to camp on
the ruins of London Bridge. So long as J. C.
Williamson and Maggie Moore survive the old
comedy will live, and Maggie Moore at all events
is growing no older. Dry, plodding men of facts
and statistics may endeavour to prove that she
must get 12 months older every year, but we de-
cline to listen to them. To the naked eye she is
still the same excited little Dutch person that she
was ever so many years ago, and she kicks Deacon
Skinner’s mortified hat into next Jubilee with the
grace of a child of Nature aged 17. Her voice,
too, has lost none of its freshness, and she dances
like a fairy of considerably under 16 stone. Mr.
Williamson’s John Stofel is equally unchangeable,
and Oily Deering, as Brother Skinner, is unspeak-
able in his unctuous villainy. The oil of the dis-
trict has entered into his soul; he abso-
lutely perspires texts and passages of Scrip-
ture ; and chastened ’umbleness is obvious
in his eye. His feet are large and have a
large quantity of meat upon them, thereby
proving that the righteous shall be firmly planted
upon the earth ; and his skin shines in a way
which is either a halo or the result of pastry.
Sundry other characters, mosbly moral and rather
ordinary, are decently filled, the most conspicuous
being that of Mrs. Edouin Bryer, as Susan Stofel,
and a little afterpiece entitled the “ Chinese
Question ” reveals the Dutchman and his daughter
as Ah Ka Funga Slim and Sam Lee Loo respec-
tively—which is about all that can be said con-
cerning it.
## # #
Now is the season of the year when the
holy public of Australia pines for a new reli-
gion with'some ice in it, and the old faith grows
limp and gone at the knees on account of the
weather. On a sultry Sunday eve, when all the
gas-jets are lib, and the gas-bill can be heard accu-
mulating up audibly, and the congregation is busy
mopping itself up in woe, and the patient ex-
pounder in the elevated cigar-box feels large drops
running down his back as he dilates upon the fire
and the evil smelling chemicals and the ashes and
the kerosene in the region that most of the human
race seems to be going to, even the regenerate
begin to wish that there was a little less
red-hot stove in the path of salvation, and
to pine for a creed in which the way
of transgressors is frozen hard and lined
with hunks of ice. Messrs. Brough and
Boucicault, of Sydney Criterion, have fortunately
recognised this long-felt public want, and the
Rev. Robert Spalding is promptly suppressed
every time he endeavours to make a few appro-
priate remarks concerning sheol, and in the whole
course of the three acts he is not allowed to pass
the plate once. In a fainting condition he clutches
the hereditary bath-bun which_serves him as a
talisman to ward off the attacks of evil spirits,
and his golosh rises as an eyesore upon the social
horizon, but every time he speaks somebody orders
him to be quiet, and when he is quiet he is shaken
up and asked why he doesn’t speak, and in his
anguish he hangs his harp on a willow-tree
and weeps. This remark is not intended to be
taken literally, for the “Private Secretary”
hasn’t got a harp, and there is no willow-tree on
the premises, but otherwise the figure of speech
expresses the position admirably. Mr. Frank
Thornton has played the part of the crushed
Spalding till that broken-backed clergyman has
become second nature to him, and all that need be
said for the impersonation is that it is the original
live curate himself, and not a mere copy of him,
who occupies the stage, and the bath-bun has
come to life after the fashion of Galatea of old,
Mr. Harcourt is loud and carnivorous as Uncle
Cattermole, and by comparison with his ferocity
of aspect Nero appears as mild as the turtle which
Bings in Galilee. Mr. Brown, in the character of
Gibson, is a triumph of tailoring and vulgarity,
and Messrs. Inman and Chichester and Misses
Ada Lee and Ida Herbert flit round as sundry
other persons of a more or less astonishing char-
acter. The Criterion, for the first time in many
weary weeks, is choke-full every night, and there
are wild plunging noises in the doorway and
sounds of suffocation on the stairs as the
eager crowd struggle in and wallow in the
trough of a great sea of humanity in their
desperate endeavours to secure seats. Mr.
John Solomon himself has been compelled on
more than one occasion to catch hold of something
and hang on in order to save himself from being
trodden underfoot by the influx of public patron-
age, and the aspect of things at 7.45 each evening
suggests an alarm of fire in Sheol and a frantic
rush for the door.
#* # #
The future Mr. Essie Jenyna is a nice-
looking fellow on the right side of 30. Wood that
we were in the shoes of him whom Essie deigns to
choose! and then, for evil or for good, we’d wed
at once, an’ Essie Wood.
## # #
The Rickards combination are still gather-
ing in the laurels of fame at the Haymarket
(Sydney) Music Hall, adjacent to Brickfield Hill,
where Abigail has his grindery emporium. Next
Saturday, however, they will be called upon to
struggle with a great rival attraction in the shape
of the Hiscocks and Friedman Minstrels, who
again lift their voices on high at the Opera House.
Also, on the same evening, Miss Dora Wiley’s
English Opera Company starts its new enterprise
at Sydney Gaiety, when the evergreen “Mari-
tana” will rise in all her picturesque improba-
bility at prices ranging from one to five shillings,
a circumstance which ought to place her within
the reach of all.
## * #
Next Saturday these two brilliant artistes,
Signor and Signora Majeroni, open at Her
Majesty’s in “ Queen Elizabeth,” a rather un-
fortunate drama founded on the clothes, ailments
and cursings of a buccaneer in petticoats and
strange oaths, whose customary mental attitude
was “horf with ’is ’ead.” Elizabeth may be
briefly sized up as a scraggy telegraph-pole of a
ELECTRIC PHOTO-ENC. CO. S BRIDGE-ST., SYDNEY"
MISS ESSIE JENYNS.
[PHOTO. BY CHARLKMONT & CO
lady who painted her face and was always coming
down on somebody with a dull sickening thud.
She was possessed of great sang froid and declined
to go to bed in her closing hours, the last ten days
of her life being spent on all-fours on the floor.
** * #
Events progress in only a middling manner
at Melbourne Opera House, and the prevailing
tone of the notices, grudgingly ladled out to good
shows, seems to indicate that Mr. Simonsen has
neglected to alcoholise the local Pres 3 up to a
proper point of admiration. Nevertheless, sundry
operas are sung and set up in a style equal, or
superior, to the best traditions of this virgin
country; also a crowded orchestra is now produc-
ing well disciplined melody. On Saturday the
young and fetching Miss Lilian Tree, Mdlle.
Lablache, and Verdi made another effort to over-
come adverse circumstances in “ The Bohemian
Girl,” but the chief of these circumstances—Mr.
Henry Atkinson —burst up the tout ensemble, as
usual. Two other amateurs, originally identified
with the aforementioned offender, appear to have
returned to the calm seclusion of domestic
life, and Mr. Atkinson is exhorted to
go and do thou likewise. Apart from his
mediocre voice, there is serious cause for
complaint against this young man’s face, which
somehow suggests a graven image in the
setting sunlight. It is a countenance that the
sweetest tenor ballad could do little, for—but to
resume. The first three nights of this w T eek were
to bring forth “Rigoletto,” and to-night (Thurs-
day) they give “Ii Guarany ” once again. ‘ II
Trovatore ” on Saturday.
## # *
“ The Squire ” la having a very good time
at the Bijou, but as “ Hans the Boatman ” will fill
the bill on Saturday any further summing up of
this notable performance is held over until next
session. Otherwise it might be mentioned that
Mr. Boucicault has recently played such a rapid
succession of diverse characters that he is apt to
mix ’em up. His. ancient Gunnion holds well
together for a few minutes at a stretch, but every
now and again that decrepit yokel becomes some-
body rather like Squire Western in “ crimson
socks.” Occasional lapses notwithstanding, Mr.
Boucicault is successful in a wider range of parts
than 99 per cent, of the perfeshun could touch, and
the other one per cent, want finding.
## # *
Owing to the unsatisfactory distribution
of applause at a certain Melbourne theatre the
star makes a practice of bowing his thanks before
the curtain at that particular instant when a
greater favourite is exercising his ovation on the
opposite side of the stage. But a better way of
dividing honours would be for one great actor to
come in on the other great actor’s back.
*# # *
A burning fiery demand for the humane
form divine in silk tights is now an awful feature
of Melbourne daily life, and if any anxious citizen
would like to know what is this strange disease
which is coming upon us, The Bulletin respect-
fully hazards “ Legs” as a solution of the mystery.
Under these circumstances the Princess’s is
howling likeababy on broken glass, the public mind
having arrived at that state when one comic opera
is as good as another, provided only that it con-
tains an equal quantity of limbs. “Mascotte”
fulfils the necessary conditions in every respect,
and it howls accordingly. It reaches the
zenith of joy when a bald-headed man in a tin
diadem requests an amorous couple to un-
cuddle. The whirligig of time has wrought
a change for the better in Mr. Leumane’s
voice and he fetched out his notes with fine
effect on Saturday night. Mr. Knight Aston
is generally in good form, and the only Nellie
is a perennial delight. -Next Saturday it is
“ lolanthe,” wherein the ladies of the chorus
signify their celestial origin by wearing wings.
Talking of ladies reminds us that Mr. Alfred
Dampier has got them by their golden fleece with
his matrimonial question. “The World Against
Her ” increases and multiplies at the Alexandra,
and Mr. D. has decided that marriage isn’t a
failure by a large majority.
## * *
“ Hands Across the Sea ” dies hard at the
Royal, the end of its bloated career being defi-
nitely fixed for Dec. 7. Meantime the secret of
this boom grows darker than ever, and the in-
herent humbug of the plot appears to mellow
with age. Among many gorgeous fictions of Aus-
tralian interest is the case of a farmer who leaves
England when he is stone-broke, and returns six
months later with a pile of untold gold. He
acquires this rapid fortune through driving a
waggon-load of necessaries round the antipodes,
and the assumption is that he did a profitable
business with squatters and other natives of the
bush during the possible ten weeks that he was
fairly on the job. Australia is, on this showing,
a nice country for the working man. Other shows
go on as usual. The circus is still there, the Vic-
toria has let some fresh attractions loose upon
society, and St. George’s Hall has revived the
pretty little “ Brook ” for a final gurgle. But on
Saturday the Coghills return to burnt cork, and
produce a brand new wizard at this establishment.
** * *
Baldwin, the balloonist, is bring his para-
chute to Australia.
*# * #
“The Golden Ladder,” the new drama
purchased by Mr. Bland Holt, has been produced
at the Adelaide Royal, and very favourably re]
ceived. Its success in the city of churches may
be owing to the fact that the hero is a clergyman,
but in any case the drama is a good one; the
dialogue is above the average, and the situations
are effective, although one or two very harrowing
scenes take place, which fill the air with heavy
sighs of sympathetic dread. Nevertheless, the
genial Bland Holt has secured a piece which is in
every way superior to his other dramatic rights,
and it should prove a profitable investment. The
characters are fairly well sustained. Mr. Douglas
“walks through” as the missionary hero; the
heroine is well played by Miss Blanche Lewis;
and Bland Holt has caught hold of quite a new
character part, and hits the house.
## # #
“ The Yeoman of the Guard ; or, the
Merryman and the Maid,” the joint production
of Gilbert and Sullivan, now running at the
Savoy Theatre, London, differs somewhat from
anything previously given to the listening, like-
wise gaping universe by the inseparables. They
have diverged widely from their beaten track and
turned out something more nearly akin to opera
than any antecedent effort. Some of the London
critics declare that the plot is an unblushing crib
from “ Maritana,” and assuredly it betrays a
more than accidental resemblance. The hero,
Colonel Fairfax, played in a woody fashion by a
tuneless tenor named Pounds, while incarcerated
in the Tower of London awaiting execution,
espouses a strolling pijjsy girl, Elsie Maynard,
impersonated by Geraldine Ulmar. This
of insanity moves the lieutenant of the first-class
dungeon in which he is immured to turn him loose
at once on an unsuspecting public. He turns up
smiling after an interval of five minutes, however,
attired as a “beefeater,” and, in order to show
that a change of costume is no cure for lunacy,
proceeds at once to make hot love to his wife ; she
reciprocates, and the fun of the piece hangs.on the
fact that the wedded pair, not knowing their rela-
tion, feel somewhat heavily handicapped by pre-
vious engagements. Miss Jessie Bond, as Pbmbe,
scoops the feminine fancy pastry store; George
Grossmith is amusing; Miss Brandum and W. H.
Denny are fairly good; though all the performers,
like the audience, seem uncertain as to whether
the author intended the piece seriously or not.
The libretto, it is said, is more than usually sar-
castic, pointed, and full of meaning, while the wit
throughout is more of a philosophical than a
humorous character. The music- -heavier than
usual, in unison with the libretto—is by no means
so catchy and sparkling as on previous occasions,
but possibly of a higher standard.
*# # #
Fairfax’s prison-Hong in the first act o
Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera has taken the
critics by storm. It is imbued with the sentiment
and colouring of by-gone days, and Gilbert has
evidently been reading up Herrick, Suckling, and
Waller. The first stanza is perhaps the best: —
Is life a thorn ?
Then court it not a whit;
Man is well, done with it
Soon as he’s born !
He should all means essay
To put the plague away,
And I, war-worn,
Poor captured fugitive,
My life most gladly give:
I might have had to live
Another morn.
** # *
Arthur Garner haß gone to England by
the Britannia.
Henry George Bays that had Cleveland
been a bold Freetrader f his flicking would have
been tremendous.
The end of the Melbourne land-boom Is
nigh at hand, and some startling syndicate arrang-
ments will shortly be disclosed in the law courts.
Patient (to dentist): “The tooth next to
that ’un aches too, doc. ” Dentist: “Yes, it aches
in sympathy. ” Patient: “ Yank it out; durn
such sympathy ! ”
Mount Morgan G. M. Co. banked 25,000
ounces of gold last Week —say £lOO,OOO worth.
This is just about what they ought to bank every
week to justify the present market value of the
mine—£ 15,000,000.
Lord Carnarvon does not approve of the
action of the Queensland Governor with regard to
Sir H. Blake’s appointment; at the same time
our readers will do well to attend the sale of the
Carnarvon Estate on Bth inst. at St. Leonards.
“Calico Jemmy” (Mr. J. S. Jamieson)
has been appoint* d by Paikes to represent
N.S. Wales at Paris Exhibition. Under the
Parisian system Calico Jemmyism always repre-
sents NS. Wales. The second Commissioner ap-
pointed is Mr. J. Macgregor Dunn, another
eminent member of the White Waistcoat party,
who happens to be hon. treasurer of the Parkes
testimonial fund. Koment would be needles.
Dear old Viscount Portman is dead. He
brought nothing into the world, neither has he
taken anything out; but he had a dooce of a lot
while he was about the world. One of the last
public acts of our departed brother was to refuse
an extension of lease to a hospital and order the
sick and afflicted, to take up their beds and walk
somewhere else. Nic o-de-e-mus will be there—
O ! let us be joyful! The concluding sentence
requires to be sung slowly.
Notwithstanding the alleged bad times the
following will show the energy of the Victorian
people. Although the London and American
Tailoring Co., who are so well and favourably
known in Victoria, have only been opened in the
King and George Street Arcade, Sydney, for six
months, their business has increased to such an ex-
tent that they have been obliged to take the whole
of the premises over the shop. The large room
will be shortly opened and will be the most com-
plete Cutting, Show-room, and Try-on Room in
the colonies.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Carelu) Fon obtain Wolfe’b.
vorhov stamps i»u rot.i e< ti<»\« : Our
new price list can bs obtaim d on application.
Selec ions of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, POS T FREE 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. *3T Old collections purchased.
**• * <« . Box 660, General Post
03fice, sviniKV.
Hope for the Deaf. — Nicholson's Patbntbd Arti
ucal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness In all its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effeoted. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,'
illustrations of the Drums, oopies of patent papers, letteis
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
tnred by these Drums, and who reoommend them. —Dt
NICHOLSON, 86 William Strbbt, Melbourne.
ST. LOUIS, U.S.A.
Sb Louis is famous for making the best Lager
Beer in the world, so say every one who has tried
it. Beware of frauds and see every cork has the
naire of Atrheuser on it. The public should ex-
amine every bottle fce'ore dricking. The ship-
ments are r ow cn the market! and are acknow-
ledged ta be tie best Lager Beer that has ever
been in Australia. The purest and most whole-
some tonic in the world. Ask for the Anheuser
St. Louis Lager B.er. Take no other.
For the Overworked Brain
USE horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Thos. Davidson, L.R.C.P., and S., Gosforth, New-
castle-on-Tyne, Eng., says: “I find it an excellent tonic
in cases of mental anxiety induced by over-study in clergy-
men, and others,”
Aboriginalities.
Dear Bulletin, —I am a developer of
infant intellect in a locality where the parents are
not affl cbed with an intense desire to pay for the
education of their progeny, and I therefore carry
on my labours under considerable difficulties. As
an example of this I recently received the follow-
ing insolent and stupid memo, from the N.S.W.
Chief Inspector of Schools : -
Collection or Fees Your Neglect in Bespict to.—
It appears tbat notwithstanding the very explicit direc-
tions you 1 ave received as to the necessity ol collecting
tchool fees weekly j ou have a'lawed arrears of fees to the
amount of £ to accumulate to the last. Your
return fcr tbat month shows that in several cases the
debt! are large and have been accruing for some consider-
able time. Before submitting the matter for the Minis-
ter's cor sideration I invite you to furnish any explanation
that you may deem nicjssary.
Now 1 have explained over and over again in my
monthly returns that I in list upon weekly pay-
ments—and can’t get them ; that when the m n&y
is not forthcoming I write nice little notes to the
parents begging and praying for an immediate
settlement; that I spend most of my leisure
time waiting round to talk to erring relatives,
and all to no effect I have repeatedly threatened
prosecution, Lut the brawny fathers of the place
on’y laugh, for the officer whose duty it is to si t
the legal machinery going doesn’t bother about it,
and I have no power to act. Consequently, the
arrears of fees keep on growing larger, and I ask
—what more can Ido ? Apparmtly Itm ex-
pected to do a lot more, but how or why I can’t at
all make out. Nobody backs up my efforts, and
when 1 have done my level best the pompous
Chief Inspector, instead of thanking me, tits down
in his luxurious apartments and pens a laborious
memo., in which he says he will report the matter
to the Minister. Perhaps he thinks I should fol-
low the parents about all over the district, bum-
bailiff fashion, on Saturdays, Sundays, and holi-
days, until they pay up to get rid of me, or else he
possibly imagines that I should sit down on their
dirty doorsteps, and refuse to budge till they
ante-up. Perhaps—but, after all, there is prac-
tically no limit to what a chief inspector may do
in the way of thinking, and it is hardly worth
while to follow him furbher. —Yours miserably,
Jonah Pedagogue
* * »
C. J. O’Connor, a Sydney attorney, some
years ago was examining at a Quarter Sessions ia
the country an Irishman to whom he was well
known and who, after being sworn with all
solemnity, assumed a look of mingled importance
and severity and appeared to possess an over-
whelming desire to impress the Courb and tell the
truffi. In response to the first question, which
was the ordinary matter-of-fonn request for his
n»ine, the witness remarked, drawing himself up
in a most dignified manner in his store-clothes :
“ Shure it’s me name ye want ter know, and it’s
quite well ye know that same—quite as well as
meself bedad.” This was too much for the ques-
ti ner, who impatiently said : “ Come, sir, never
mini what /know. Tell the Court your name ”
“Ah ! Shure, Mr. O'Connor, I did not think it
would be yerself as would disown me before the
Co irt an’ the population Me name s Pater
D KilaD, and well ye know it. ’ “Now, Peter,
what are you ? ” Peter hereupon looked my stifled
and offended “Phwataml?’ “Yes, what are
you? What were you brought up to?'’ The
corrugations for an instant cleared away
from Mr. Doolan's face, a gleam of intelli-
gence passed like greased lightning over his
feat tres ; then he regarded the O’Connor w ioh
infinite scorn. He snorted contempt, his
eyes ghred. his frame quivered, and, for-
getful of Judge, jury, gowns and “popu-
latijn,” in a two-foot thick brogue he exclaimed,
gesticulating with his right band in which he
held the Holy Bible: —" Phwat am I? I’m
ashamed of ye, Misther O'Connor, it’s the bitter
of you did I think than you'd be afbher fooling
me twice this blessed day. Phwat am I ? I’m
the same as yerself—a Howly Roman Catholic be
the Grace av God ! ” —and bang came the Bible
down on the witness-box.
•
When Justice wandereth way out we stand
comes to sojourn among a people who never beard
of Blackstone and Windeyer she is apt to have
her bang dislocated and her bustle unhinged and
to be stood on ber revert d head in about 16 differ-
ent undignified positions. The yeomanry of that
roasted rtgion have a way of escorting Justice
which geterally ends in the legal part of her bdng
toppled over into a convenient crab-hole. The
law dispensed by, say, Bungaroo jurors, is not the
article which the presiding judge exhibits, but the
kind of thing tin jurors thmk the law ought to
be: “But you notice now,” thus pleasantly dis-
coursed a dweller of that city as he lit a pipe in
the brief interval between two drinks, “you
notice now if Bungaroo verdicts ain’t always right.
They may te dead agin all evidense, and right slap
agin all law and what the judge says, but they’re
right tv<.ry time. You might ’a heard ttll of Jim
Willows. No? Jim ha wa3 caught branding a
mat In r of 30 or 40 cawves bout 2 o'clock one
moonlight night. Now, Jim hadn’t a cow of his
own on the selection —hadn’t a hoof on the place—
s>it was easy to tell they wasn't bis. Well, the
p lice got wind of it, and ran him in, and he was
tried at the sessions. Well, the evidence was
clear agin him, and the judge sums up short and
iharp, with that queer tnoit of hi-*, telling the
j iry they ought to convict without leaving the
oox. The jury goes out, and comes in with a ver-
dict of not guilty. The judge looks at ’em curious
Lke for a bit, then tells ’em they can go
nothing m re, only he said it with a bit
of a snort like We’l, next morning the
judge goes down to where his buggy was kept,
ami there sees one uf the jury, who says to him :
“You was a bit s’prisid at that verdic’ yester-
day, judge ” “It certainly wasn’b what I ex-
pected,” says the judge. “ Well,” ssys the chap,
•• yer see it was this way. Jim had a tidy piice
of ground, and some good grass, and no stock to
eat id an Ino money to buy any. Well, what
does Jim do? He just does what you or me or
anyone else might do, yer Honor, he just goes
out and scruffs a few cawves, and we wasn’t
goiDg to Bhop him just) for a thing like that ”
“That’s it, you tee,” continued the Bungaroo
Bramwell, “ the verdic’ was dead agin all evi-
dence and agin the law, but it was right all the
same. And if you notice Bungaroo verdicts you’ll
find what I tell you is right. If we think a man
ought to be shopped we shop him, evidence or no
evidence, and if we think he ought to be let off we
lit him off and blast the law.” Wi h which brief
summary of the Bungaroo legal cede he burled
his face in a beer-pot as big as a bucket
Dear Bulletin, —Don’t you think that
a part of the platform of the Queensland National
Party should be a new gallows? Up here they
pretty often hang two people on one morning, and
it strikes me they might) just as well do the
horrible job in one act -if it has to be done at all.
Not very long ag > tlv y hanged a woman and a
man on the same d iy. The woman was hanged
first, and they nearly pulled her head off; a
quarter cf an hour afterwards, when they had cut
aown her body and wiped everything upnicely, they
cold-bloodedly brought oub the mac, who had been
locked up a few yards away listening to the pro-
ceedings and to’d him that it) was his tu n Last
week *gain they went through a similar perform-
ance : first they kaDged a white man, who was fat
and heavy, and successfully broke bis neck, and
then they took 15 minutes to strangle a poor devil
of a nigger who was as thin as a shadow turned
sideways, and yet was allowed to fall only as far
as the wretch who had gone before. This condi-
tion of affairs reflects the greatest discredit on the
old convict settlement of Moreton Bay snd ought
to be looked into at once by Premier M‘II wraith.
Why, Sydney has a gallows on which thsy can
hang six people at once—a gallows the construc-
tion of which, in the memorable words of a local
daily paper, “reflects the utmost credit on its
enterprising builders, Messrs. Bros.”—
Yours, Bananaman.
• • *
Dear Bulletin, —A commercial traveller,
with a wondrous gift of the gab, used to
pester the life out of a river storekeeper for orders
—big orders. He would not listen to a refusal.
UNME RITED SEVERITY.
SIR HENRY (to homeless waif): “MY POOR CHILD, YOURS IS THE MOST
DISTRESSING CAS EVER BROUGHT TO MY NOTICE; I THINK PL,
WRITE A POEM ABOUT IT."
HOMELESS WAIF : “OH, SIR! SPARE ME, I AM AN ORPHAN, IT IS TRUE;
BUT REMEMBER-OH, REMEMBER IT IS MY FIRST OFFENCE!”
He would talk for an hour. You couldn’t bluff
him. One day he found a stranger behind the
counter, who explained that he had bought the
business, but that he didn’o require any new stock
now as he had a large supply of goods comirg up
by next steamer. “Give me an order, only one
order,” pleaded the traveller, and he actually
wheidlpd the s fi new propiietor into jiving
orders for aboui £(>o worth of stuff, and had just
time to catch the boat to Ba’l n*. The goods
came to hand. The suppr s d new proprietor had
gone to Africa The storekeeper knew nought) of
the goik. Letters, wires, inquiries, &c. The
deuce to pay ; traveller comes from Sydai y to see
about the matter. Gojds sent back, commercial
traveller gone to Afiici afd» r the j her. He eaid
he wtuld.—Oyster Johnnie.”
A Norman'oi (Q ) elitor wrote ihtt a
local fire bad “ a pi oaterial flavour ’ and the ag-
grieved burnt-cub ore “ tuk prcceedins ’ The
jury found “no bil'.” Nohle jury.
* * •
Lp among the B ! uy Mm n bains there livea
an accomplished sponger whose capacity for dis-
covering a man who ‘ holds a shilling” amounts
to absolute genius. A few nights ago, at a lead-
ing Lithgow pub., he fell iaio the company of
several young fellows who were drinking in the
bar-parlour and paying for their grog on the
modes t‘ 1 shilling in ” system Oar lo afer had a
free diink or tw", and then, as he fels the
ic-ness of ..the cold fhoulde-, he began to
borrow shillings from the good natured land-
lord: “You put in a bob for ne, old man,
this time. It will be all right ” Thus he kept in
the swim for an hour or two. Then the landlord’s
shillings commenced to give out, atd the sponger
Jurchedal jrg on his way out of the whisky-mill, and
found in one of the rooms a jovial party surrounded
by champagne-glasses and dead-marines which
told of a high old time. “ Landlord ! ” exclaimed
the loafer in the tones of a man who has a great
sorrow lying up against hi 3 aorta, “how long has
this been going on?” “Oh ! ” said the landlord,
“three or four hours.” “Well, I'm d d! ” said
the loafer —“ here have I been spending the night
with a dry-hash crowd of Sydney counter-
jumpers playing shillings-in, while all the lime I
might have been i> mortiug with and enjoyiDg
the society of gentleui n! ” And then the land-
lord exclaimed : “ Well, I'm d d ! ”
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —I hate Chinamen. Ono
of them embittered my existence about five years
ago by askiDg me a few artless questions. Said he
one day : ‘ You tell me what for you eatee egg on
Fliday ? ” “My Joss forbids me to cat meat on
that day, John,” I replied gently. “Butitallee
samee eatee meatee, eatee egg.” “How?” “You
no eavee, eh ? flomee fowl comee egg, flimee egg
comee fowl, egg allee samee meat, eavee ? ” I lift
him abruptly and disliked him ever afterwards. —
Oyster Johnnie.
* • »
At Glengallen (Q.) recently a Chinaman,
Lee Kong, di j d destitute, wnereupon Janus
Bures, an enterprising underlaker, appropriate
the “stiff” and buiied it at his own sole and per-
sonal risk and responsibility. Jamei whistled
softly to himself as he made up his little bill for pre-
sentation to the Divisional Board, and he mentally
remarked that dead Chinamen weren’t such bad
fiHows, after all. But when the Board decided
that it had no connection with defunct citizens of
the Flowery Land, James felt he had been a bit
previous with that there buryin’ and entered the
cost of a painted pine coffin to his profit and loss
account with a heavy heart, and he swears that
the next time he fools round with a destitoot
corpse, black, white, or yaller, you can tell him
of it, that’s all.
* * •
Tho Queensland sun hid been slowly
baking the brains of the railway officials, and at
last the authorities decided to provide the stiff
with head coverings suitable to a torrid climate.
Memos, were sent to the station masters and others
employed in the department, intimating that new
helmets were to be served out, and requesting
them to stiate the siz 3 s they required. In the
memos the word “helmet ” was not very plainly
written. One stationmaster bad previously ap-
pli d for am w ticket case, and he thought the
wori “ helmet ” in the memo, was some word sig-
nifying ticket case. He accordingly turned over
the paper and. marked down the sizs he wanted,
“ Three feet s'x with pigeon-holes on the top.”
• •
O.i Kerribree
s'ation in far West rn N.S.W, an artesian bore,
put down 1073 feet, has suddenly sunk into a huge
cavity 28 feet deep, from which 350,000 gall ns of
water spout per day One of the plucky squatters
who has thus conquered his share cf the drought
is a bald-headed man and is known a 3 “Baldy.”
Years ago his place was raided by the niggers ;
they pre sed him ha-d but ho was equal to the
occasion. He dodged behind a tree, lifted eff his
wig and gave a wild war-whoop. The darkies,
who had never in all their lives met a min with a
moveable skull-top, fled in abject terror.
* * •
Amongst the names of Australian natives
enrolled on the blazing scr.ll of the Camden
(N.S.W.) branch of the League we find a Von
Arnheim Guc’inkishi. Chow Ping and Carl Yon
Hoofeenpoofeenechwezleghop9nschkrimer are to
be proposed at the next meeting, but we regret to
say the “Natives” have blackballed “Wanta-
badgery Eilly ” and ‘ Possum Mary.”
Paddy Brown, a well-known Sydney news-
vendor, had a lad in his service who didn’t smoke
cigarettes, didn’t) chew tobacco, didn’t play penny-
ante in the Domain, and didn’t pelt brickbats at
Chinamen. One night Paddy casually per red into
bit small employe’s room and found the urchin in
the attitude of prayer. Delighted at havieg dis-
covered a rial, live, pious newsboy, Paddy
watched, and having found that religious exercises
were part of the youngster’s daily routine, he
placed unbounded faith in him. One day lately,
he entrusted his good boy with a pound-note to
pay for some papers, and that good toy has not
been heard of since. Paddy thinks he is dead,
but—— well, it is possible he is dead. Good boys
in story-books generally do die and have big
funerals, and the bad boys who used to call them
names and throw banana-skins at them ceme and
thed bitter tears cf contrition cn their little coffins
and get converted right eff and’grow up to be
great good men like Sir .
The Madame Berry (Vic.) gold mine has
paid 100 consecutive dividends of 10s. each—
£soo,loo in all.
In Sydney the other day John Brown was
fined £2OO Jor having an unlicensed still. Old
John Brown’s “ spirit still ” marching on.
A market-gardener has written to the
Argus to say that he once helped a wounded
Chinaman into his cart, and the heathen has re-
cently shown gratitude for the kindness. By
calling particular attention to the circumstance
the market-gardener is cruelly rough on Chinamen
in general.
At the meeting of the Congregational
Union in Sydney the other day a gentleman moved
that no collections be taken up at the meetings of
the Union, alleging as his reason for so doing
that it was said of Congregationalists that when-
ever two or three of them gathered together there
the hat was in the midst of th( m.
The Intercolonial Printers’ Conference, at
Melbourne, has bee n grappling with the apprentice
question. In some of the colonies, and in N.Z. in
particular, many of the big papers are produced
almost entirely by apprentice or girl-labour. The
state of matters in N.Z. is already a serious
menace to Australian printers so far as trades-
unionism is concerned, and in a year or two may,
unless dealt with vigorously, altogether destroy
the organisations that the printers of the older
colonies have built up.
In N.S.W., when a prisoner calls evidence
as to his own character, the Crown is allowed to
impugn the reliability of such evidence by prov-
ing that *111“ p>iporpr’s witnesses have themselves
been ctn'i t*-ffi But whs.', on the other hand, a
prisoner, wnhieg to challenge the credibility of a
witness called for the prosecution, arks tto ke
allowed to prove by the gaol records that the
latter has himself been convicted, the judge
(M‘Farland) refuses the request. The matter is
to go to the Full Court, which will surely not per-
mit so monstrous a precedent to stand.
The Swating system at the Exhibition.
The Press room lies off Best-office Place
(I don’t mean “lies ” as a double entendre),
And the serious work of this year of grace
Is nowhere done if it’s not done yonder ;
Where men, with a due regard to style,
Write all day long with never a smile
Till their “copy’s” stuck on the greedy file ;
And they all wititr such love for their work are
fired
That they’re never at rest until re-iaspired.
No carpet where weary feet may sink
Enriches the lloor of this sombre sanctum ;
The “ powers that be ” give the pens and ink,
For which the c mtsntei scribes have thanked
’em ;
A c jmp osite candle puts to flight
The shades of each Centennial night,
And every inn’s a shining light,
Who in search of ileai need ne’er employ
The exceedingly sprightly messenger boy.
They call him Mercury, suitably,
For he’s ne’er at rest, but for ever flitting
Away to luncheon, dinner, or tea—
That is, d.v., or the scribes permitting
And the writers (a sternly religious band,
Too guileless to see that the thing is plann’ci)
Just wave a unanimous, kindly hand—
A strictly diligent band they are
With minds and m >rals both “ on par.”
There’s the Melbourne Herald—ah ! Wisdom’s
ray
Has beamed on his head his life’s young morning,
He scouts a Material Hell, they say,
And worldly pleasures is ever scorning.
That other, with spotless tile of silk,
Who quenches his thirst with schnapps or milk,
And aoominates men like Sir Caarles Dilke —
He’s scribbling from morn till closing chimes,
He’s—witness his card—the Otago Times.
The great Centocular One is there,
Ten seres of supplement fast compiling ;
While.®£a.s\ too, on a one-legged chair,
Reviews his work, and is almost smiling ;
And one, arranged in clerical black,
Is gnashing 1 is teeth as he p9ns a smack
At the liqu r traffic—his pet attack ;
He lovingly ogles the water c ‘raffs,
Proclaiming at once the Telegraph.
There scribes are gathered frcin all the world,
And the air’s alive with ceaseless scratching,
While brows are furroved and iimbs are furled—
The orth dox “sat ’ when idea-hatching.
There's the N Z.H. and the S.D T ,
Tne man from Fiance and Portuguee,
The Kansas King and the dapper Swede,
An J all are starving their flocks to feed.
And countless oiheis to whom a meal’s
A thing unknown till the Show is number’d
With bygone glories, for each one feels
The world would fail if a pressman slumber'd.
The sweet things shriek on the Switchbnck car ;
Wagnerian strains are heard afar ;
The maffiers eddy round every bar ;
But the Press-room takes the pride of p’ace
For serious work in this Year of Grace.
SCENTIM ADDY


PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Winee from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near Ring Street.
Send for plans and pamphlets of £lO allotments,
Paddington Estate, Perth, West Australia. The
Intercolonial Investment Co , 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
JOHN M'EWAN & GO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45-page • Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &o.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Daily*
All Llstß posted Free on application.
Personal Items.
Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has sunk into
hopeless imbecility.
Mr. Dan. O'Connor does not figure in the
Lang or Dailey statue movements Why ?
The main street in the township of Parke 3,
N.S.W., is named Clarinda, after the late Lady
Parkes.
Judge Innes is going “ home ” on leave.
More political patronage for the N S.W. Pre-
mier. Wrenfordsley may, however, be ready in
time.
The Hawk has taken to saying very nasty
things about Pritchard Morgan. Nobody in Aus-
tralia could say such things without putting up
£lO,OOO to pay the lawyers.
Lord |Hastiogs is one of our very old
nobility, if you please. He is believed to be de-
scended from a baron who attracted the favour-
able notice of his Lord’s Anointed as far back as
1200.
The Germans were so eager to reply to
Morell Mackenzie’s book that no less than 20
answers in pamphlet form we*e in type last
month, and only waiting for the doctor’s volume
to come out to be put upon the market.
Parnell’s grandfather fought against Eng-
land in the war of 1812, and his wife’s grandfather
fought against England in the war of American
Independence. Parnell’s blood should thus con-
stitute a conflux of generations cf rebel blood.
Mr. Samuel T. Knaggs, M.D. , whom the
Sydney University last week appointed to the
office of lecturer in clinical surgery, is one of the
best amateur conjurors in Australia. That’s why
the spiritualists and clairvoyants don’t like him.
Premier M‘llwraith was rushed through
the “ mystic-tie ” ceremonies on Thursday evening
last, prior to his departure by the Dacca. He has
a long way to travel yet to overtake Sir S. W.
Griffith and Sir John Douglas, who number HO and
33 degrees respectively.
Ignatius Donnelly, the learned idiot who
published two gigantic volumes to prove that
Shacon was really Bake-
Bpeare, and thereby left
everything so utterly
unfixed that people
have since been ready
to believe that it was
Goliath who wrote the
Axe of the Apostles, is
going to run for the
billet of Governor cf
Minnesota (U.S.A.).
Thus does Editor
Winter, of Melbourne
Herald, gently chide
the erring rt porter;
“Only five men in a
whole thousand are fit
to be senior reporters,
and everyone of the five
is usually a flaming
diunkard. And because
I’ve a teetotal partner,
by the eternal rouse-
about that yarded up
the flocks of Israel, I
amsuppored to pick a
clever staff out of the
995 duffers!”
Queen Victoria, in
her old age, has de-
veloped a great fond-
ness for whist. Those
about her are beginning
to be bored by her in-
cessant longing to in-
dulge in the game. She
can stand a long siege
at the table, and often
wearies those who are
playing with her by
her disinclination to
quit. It is said that
she hates to lose her
money as much as
though she were poor
for she plays the good
old English game of a
guinea a corner.
Beaconsfield kept
every letter he received,
and though bis literary
executor has been seven
years endeavouring to arrange them, his task is
not yet finished. Sir George Grey, the “ great
pro-consul,” has also kept his correspondence, but
it is well-arranged in bound volumes and indexed,
and those who have been permitted to skim the
old ex-Governor’s letters say that they, throw
some wonderful side-lights on the colonial and
Imperial history of the past half-century.
Sims Beeves could sing a bit once, but his
recently-published autobiography shows him to be
an arrant old egoist. He records that, on one oc-
casion, Sir Michael Costa called upon him to
thank him for the style in which he had sustained
the tenor part, and declared that there was
“no belter singing in Paradise.” In another
place Reeves tells us lhat he sang “ transcen-
dency:” and again and ag in we read that he
“ was never in better voice or sang more magni-
ficently.”
The old Earl of Devon is dead, and a
spendthrift roue, long known as Lord Courtenay,
takes his father’s place in the House of Peers.
The new Earl has been three times bankrupt, and
every shilling squeezable from such estates as he
couldn’t sell in his prospective right will be
scooped by the Jews during their client’s lifetime.
But the precious law of entail so arranges matters
that a “noble family” is seldom poor through
more than two generations. The present Earl of
Devon will die owing tens of thousands of pounds
to tradespeople. His next descendant will inherit
no means of subsistence, nor earn any. Yet his
heir may enjoy a long minority and find himself a
wealthy man at one-and-twenty. God bless our
old aristocracy ! They want a lot of wiping out.
Some amiable asses of the chalk-fiend
order have started a Biblical Society in New York,
with a capital of 200,000 dollars, for the purpose
of pasting Scripture texts upon the luggage of un-
suspecting passengers. * We .sincerely trust that
they will commence business by pasting Hell
on the luggage of Peter Jackson, and that Peter
catches them at the game.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus
tralia There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 90 Bathurst-street,
Sydney-
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Pope threatens to leave Rome. It Is
rumoured that he is going to settle in Mudgee.
The only chance Gr ilith has of dishing
MTlwraith in the North is by becoming a red-hot
Australian Republican.
“ The spirit) of Australian Nativeism is
nothing more or less than mongrelism.”— Pearl of
wisdom from the Ups of John Haynes, M.P.
Population, according to Treasurer Burns,
of N.S.W., “is the truest test of prosperity,”
This probably accounts for the wealth of China.
“The Dibbs deficit should be ’ung hup and
when times is good it can be taken down horf
the ’ook.” —Gem of N,S. Wales Parliamentary
oratory.
The Pastoral Times (Denlliquin, N.S.W.)
says that Judge Windeyer “ erred on the Bide of
mercy ” in the sentences passed on the BrookoDg
rioters. Satirical dog!
NinianMelville, M.P., said In the N.S W.
Parliament that he believed in gho-ts. If we
were an undertaker like Melville we would not
like to believe in ghests.
By a majority of nearly three to one the
enlightened Legislature of Hawaii have abolished
their navy and reduced their army to a force of 05
men and a military band.
Knutsford apparently thinks that “ the
colonies ” are the proper places for police failures.
AN AUSTRALIAN VIEW.
ENGLISHMAN : “OH, YES, YOU SEE SOME SPLENDID RIDING IN ROTTEN ROW, ONLY LADIES
AND GENTLEMEN ON HORSEBACK, A SIGHT YOU WON’T SEE ANYWHERE ELSE.”
AUSTRALIAN : “DON’T TALK ABOUT YOUR RIDING. HERE NOBODY NEED TO BE A LaDY OR
A GENTLEMAN. BUTCHERS, NEWSBOYS, POSTMEN—THEY ALL RIDE, AND THERE
GOES OLD MICKEY O’FLARA THAT CLEANS THE LAMPS HERE, WHY, HE’S ON
HORSEBACK; YOU AIN’T GOT NOTHINK LIKE THAT IN ENGLAND, I BET.”
Sir Charles Warren, it is said, succeeds Sir Her-
cules Robinson at the Cape.
Dan Connor’s bill to increase the muni-
cipal franchise of Sydney has been a splendid suc-
cess. Last year only 8283 persons were entitled
to vote, now there are 22,006,
Sir Henry Blake bas expressed his willing-
ness “to leave for Queensland and live down the
prejudice against him.” He wants to live it down
at the rate of £5OOO a year and perks. We should
smile.
Says General Harrison, the new American
President: “I do not believe that any Republic
can live and prosper whose wage-earners do not
receive enough to make life comfortable and do
not have some upward avenues of hope open
before them.”
A North Shore (Sydney) Debating Society
has decided that the decapitation of Charles I.
was a highly immoral proceeding. This timely
exhibition of sympathy has fallen like balm on
the wounded hearts of the “ martyred monarch’s”
suffering relatives.
A New York exchange, with a fine touch
of sarcasm, says :—“The Scotland Yard detectives
have not yet discovered the fiend who lately mur-
dered six abandoned women in the heart of
London, but the Times has affidavits to prove that
Mr. Parnell is the guilty man.”
An English papar “ is surprised to learn
from a firm of lithographers that the portrait of
Gladstone is, of English statesmen, the most popu-
lar in the colonies.” The fact is that Gladstone is
about the only English statesman that the average
colonist ever hears of or cares to hear of.
Is ex-Commissloner Goodchap to be
credited with his retiring pension of £937 per
annum should it be resolved that he be paid
£l5OO a year and travelling expenses for “ inquir-
ing in America, Asia, and Europe into the con-
struction and management of railways ” ?
A London financial paper warns its readers
against lending N.Z. any more money. It says :
—“ The truth is that N : «. is trading, and for
many years has traded, ug'jn the credit of the
Australian colonies, with which she has no con-
nection, either geographically, socially, or com-
mercially.”
A Victorian Parliamentary return shows
that that portion of South Melbourne between the
Yarra and the main road t to Port Melbourne, when
sold within the last 10 years, realised £87,273 The
present value is estimated at £3,528,900. Here
indeed is a text for the land-nationalisers—or
“land-doctors,” as Geo. Ranken is pleased to
satirically term them.
The militant Mac Million, M.P., is anxious
to increase the expenditure of N.S.W. to an in-
calculable degree, so that she may be able to keep
the “ worruld ”at bay. The invaders N.S.W.
has most reason to fear are pauper-labour and
foreign-made goods. Big guns and forts are not
needed to exclude them.
The residents in the vicinity of the Scent-
ennial Park, Sydney, are still holding their noses
with one hand while writing letters to the morn-
ing papers with the other, m which epistles every
word and phrase descriptive of smell, from “beastly
stink ” to “all pervading effluvia ” is pathetically
or aggressively used. It is suspected that the
“ high” odour arises from buried Parkesianpoliti-
cal jobs.
The newly-formed Mounted N.S.W. In-
fantry Corps is already redolent of jobbery. The
captaiD, transferred from the reserve, is to get
£5OO a year, and the instructor, a youDg untried
Imperial officer named Lassetter, who also is to
draw a fat salary, is now learning his duties at
Aldershot. The corps numbers about 40 men, all
told, and it has been recruited chiefly from the
local Permanent Artillery !
David Syme, of the “ Radical ” Melbourne
Age, opposes the MTlwraith movement against
imported Governors, opposes the nationalisation
of land, upholds high official salaries for those who
happen to be at the head of affairs, opposes
Government recognition of the “unemployed,”
and opposes the direct representation of labour in
Parliament. What is the faith of the Melbourne
democrat, anyway ? Well, he holds (in a leading
article) that newspapers should be carried free
through the post! It is time for a newspaper—
started on bed-rcck principles—to start and fight
the Symes.
The brand-new German Emperor William
has just said that “ even victorious war without
necessity is incompatible with Christianity and
Emperorship.” What an astounding prig ! Mr.
Hohenzollern, whose race live on war and the
prospect thereof, strongly reminds us of the man
who set fire to a music-shop in Ballarat last week,
after writing on the back fence : “ This place will
be burnt down to-night, D.V.”
Sir John Young, afterwards Lord Lisgar,
whom Sir Henry Parkes eulogised so highly last
week as the type and example of a constitutional
Governor, was, during his term of office in New
South Wales, reprimanded by the Secretary of
State for the Colonies for unconstitutional inter-
ference between the Council and the Assembly on
Sir John Robertson’s Land Act. The Governors
of whom Sir Henry thinks little were not so
reprimanded.
J. G. Blaine, after touring through Europe,
wrote i—“ Were it possible for every voter of the
Republic to see for himself the condition and re-
compense of labour in Europe the party of Free
Trade in the United States would not receive the
support of one wage-worker between the two
oceans. It may not be directly in our power to
elevate the European labourer, but it will be a
lasting stigma upon our statesmanship if we permit
the American labourer to be forced down to the
European level.”
The three hours’ speech of Mr. Ellis in
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly the other even-
ing was couched in language which in point of
diction would not have disgraced “ Jack the
Ripper.” This high-class orator only speaks
once in every six months, and then he babbles on
like a river swollen with the accumulated snow-
water of the winter. Few can stand him long,
even “ Tommy ” Walker admits that
Though Sheol’s pit a place of torture fell is,
One year of it can’t lick an hour of Ellis.
A stranger who visits Sir Henry Parkes
in official hours is edified at what he beholds. To
the left of the great man is a litter of letters
awaiting postage at Government expense, while
to the right is a litter stamped by Sir Henry
Parkes. “Those,” the conscientious patriot ob-
serves, “are on the public service, while these,”
and he licks another effigy of the kangaroo. “ are
my private letters. In all my public life I have
not sent one private letter at the public expense !”
The stranger is expected to manifest high eye-
browed admiration at this evidence of sensitive
honesty.
The suggested change of title from “Laud
Nationalisation” to “Single Tax” League has
much in its favour. The latter title is easy of ap-
prehension and comes more directly to the popular
mind. In the former there is a good deal to ex-
plain, and many who are sound upon the theory
are not adepts at explanation. The only matter
to cause delay in adopting the new title is a doubt
as to whether the old and the new mean precisely
the same thing. The League have, however,
given themselves plenty of time to think over the
subject, as the settlement of it is deferred till
January next.
When Wollongong Borough Council passed
the ultra vires by-law, which has brought the
N.S.W. S dvation Army such a blaze of glory, the
S. M. Herai.l)—upholding constituted authority
—endorsed the action of the Council. When,
afterwards, the Supreme Court quashed the con-
victions and condemned the by-law, the S. M.
Herald—upholding constituted authority—-en-
dorsed the action of the judges. “ The S. M.
Herald,” Alderman Parsons pathetically ob-
serves, “ is the leading paper of N.S. Wales.” But
parsons leading Parsons —well, in this case the
destination was a ditch.
The Earl of Dunraven, a rather brainy
peer who talks twaddle in the interests of his
class, professes to pooh-pooh Queensland's right to
select a Governor, on the ground that the colony
“ might equally claim the right to choose its
sovereign .” One can picture the other noble earls
raising their hands in horror at the mere thought
of such a sin against Heaven. Yet Dunraven
might have mentioned, had he chosen, that half
the English-speaking people in the world do
choose their own sovereign—of the States. He
might also have touched delicately upon the fact
that a 90-minutes’ sea-journey would land the
House of Lords among a powerful people who
sacked their two last monarchs, and have followed
the American system since 1870. Dunraven, you
are a wag.
A South Australian statistician estimates
that there are in the various colonial parliaments
101 members who ought to be run in for abusive
and bad language; 23 who should be fined with
the usual option for drunkenness ; and 4 who
deserve be wanted by the police for violent assault
complicated by language. Total 128. Of these
72, including all the assaults, belong to N.S.W.;
Queensland has 21; Victoria, 18; New Zealand,
7 ; Tasmania, G ; and pious South Australia only
4. These calculations only refer to the racket
which the hon. members have made in Parlia-
ment ; if their actions outside are taken into con-
sideration it is considered that five-sixths of the
whole legislative system should be promptly run
in and fined in an amount that would wipe out the
national debts (f all Australasia, and also bound
over in two sureties to keep the peace for 1800
years.
Daring the last .‘>B years that dull old
woman of war, the Duke of Cambridge, has re-
ceived from the British nation half a million in
grants for his services in being alive and related
to a monarch ; £40,000 as Colonel of the Grenadier
Guards with some cne else to do the work;
£120,000 as Commander-in-Chief of the British
Army from which he bolted on the only occasion
that he found himself under fire; £15,000, as
Ranger of sundry royal parks which would get
along quite as well without any ranging at all.
Also he has had the use of a palace free of rent and
taxes; and though old age is upon him, and he
totters in his uniform while striving to fix his
bleary eye on some autumn manoeuvre that he
wouldn’t understand though he lived to be GOO
and upwards, he still hangs on to his multifarious
“ perkisits ” and gives satisfactory promise that
he will draw them till the end of the century.
Some of the keenest Sydney land-jobbers
are afraid that there is going to be no land-bcom
in Sydney. “Heaven preserve the people,” says
one of Sydney’s most prominent auctioneers,
“ from such a land-boom as they have had in Mel-
bourne. Forty pounds a foot paid for land three
and-a-half miles from Melbourne —and not a bit
of scrub burnt off it! They have gone absolutely
mad.”
£70,000 has been spent on the present
uncompleted hospital-buildings in Macquarie-
etreet, Sydney, and £BO.OOO is required to com-
plete and furnish the buildings. Meanwhile, as
is pointed out by Mr. A. C. Shadier, 200 sick poor
are housed in a miserable weatherboard structure
which may catch fire any day. Yet when £30,000
was available for distribution among the rich sub-
scribers to the bogus “ Patriotic” fund raised for
the purpose of cutting Arabs’ throats, the white
waistcoated donors of the largest subscriptions
calmly re-pocketed their money and sneaked off.
A commendable attempt to knock out the
“ cursed meat ” by the soothing, cooling, brain-
stimulating influence of fish, is now being made
by the Mutual Fish Supply Company, of Mel-
bourne. This new company proposes to annihilate
opposition at the outset of its career by buying up
the historic business of Jenkins, who has been the
great Melbourne apostle of fish since time was in
those parts. With such a favourable send-off the
enterprise only needs decent management to make
it a domestic boon and a financial success. And
if the M.F.S. Co. succeeds in bursting-up the ini*
quitous Fish Ring, as expected, it will deserve
well of its fellow-men, and must command the
special prayers and intercessions of Bishop Barry


KANGA[?]OO ([?]q.): “I think I like your ROARING mood best!”


. Jyfr a r
J //
•'/rC-’- 3
‘ Lord Carrington emphatically denies that he I
has, at present, any intention of visiting I'.n~
land next year or of retiring Croon the position
ot uovernor before tbe eiepitafcioo of his full
(•erro.
It ijl again affirmed in London that Lore
Cjari ington ih about to reaigu the Uo»«niorshJ’
ol New South Wales.
I"' ' sv~ +-/?) I' l oiOpfC' 0 - 1^
i% 1 - P' Lr
{ i*f.
H r
V/ S
IU X SWIFTS** '>
teJterfmsH oh />oTtjefus'- J /»
Mf /fe/rz/4
'f aeJar *'/*-**/%■ trrfe,
, S *>«j 6l J'Sf /, ‘ /e ’ 9 :
of fa foUptfi Z* J^ses
Tneof' trobcrt/ f*f) /*/ . a/ Aj yf a r/S,s
f C &'*.’?* ( f) oi Sf-
o.t /;/TA d*y - v*' p / e ytr^"
fr^ey
SNAP-SHOTS.


Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
Dress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Bussell-street, MELBOURNE
The most profitable use for a few pounds is iu
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment 00., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs beoause
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pbrfuhkry Co.’s
Stands In the Melbourne Ixhibltlsi, Ail Melbourne
it on this Soent.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1868.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followln ]
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS s
UEBEL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priood Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which oannot be ex
oelled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
W.H. PALING ft GO-, Lit
W QKOKaE BTEBBT. two doom liovEOi
Society
Bollingen
[?]
Miss Essie Jenyns, who is about to marry
Mr. Frederick Wood, of Newcastle, has decided
to leave the stage : —
Cup week spurt having died away, the
great Centennial Exhibition has relap:ed into its
old condition of gloomy disappointment. There
is little fear now that this unwieldy failure will
do much harm to the shows which are managed
by men who have to live out of their profits.
True, several thousand people invest in a shillings-
worth (or children half-price) of Exhibition every
day of the week, but nobody seems to know where
they come from, and—as regards daylight visitors
nobody can tell where they get to. In the even-
ing a swarm of girls ogle a swarm of boys down
the Avenue of Nations, and the intelligent
foreigner wonders whether it was the original in-
tention of the Victorian Government to spend
£200,000 over an indiscriminate “mash.” But the
mornings and afternoons are of such a funereal
character that exhibitors in attendance generally
refer to their place of banishment as the Graveyard.
The Committee talk feebly of doing something
to make the place “ more attractive,” but there is
scarcely one among the whole crowd who is capable
of bringing a bun-struggle to a successful i ssue. The
Exhibition is suffering from that official dry-rot
peculiar to all Government institutions managed
by Government men. A recently-opened Arma-
ment Court is the thinnest piece of humbug ever
cracked up by a press which is squared with
chicken and champagne once a week regularly.
Talking of which reminds us that Sir James
Maoßain is spending £2500 of public money in
petty back-scratching luncheons whereunto none
of the leading English exhibitors (or their re-
presentatives) ever get an invite. A free ticket
for some severe concert did occassionally drop
across their embittered lives until it was discovered
that nobody turned up to enjoy Cowen’s feast of
soul, so the hollow farce is played no more. Ere
the big show closes it is likely that a mass meeting
of exhibitors will carry a vote of “ D n ! ” with
one voice.
* * •
The Avenue of Nations on a Saturday
night is a sight for the gods. It is Bourke-street
without the street. Courtesans and cads, larri-
kins and ladies, all jostle one another and stare at
one another. Visitors come to hear the music and
see the people, and for every purpose under the
sun, except to see the great Centennial frost.
• «*
The Exhibition Commissioners, among
other feeble efforts to catch the vulgar populace,
have decided to allow smoking on the terrace
running along the south end of the show. Next
they should allow this broad, smooth stretch of
asphalt to be used as a free skating rink, and
things would begin to look quite hilarious. It is
ust at this point of the premises that a smart
Amurrikan has fixed up a non-intoxicant drinking
shop which badly wants booming. The bird of
freedom, aforesaid, dispenses the natural mineral
waters of our hemisphere to all who will take them
straight. He couldn’t push them inside the build-
ing lest they might affect the pizon trade of which
certain caterers enjoy a boozy monopoly, and this
al fresco space was only reluctantly granted after
the Commissioners had satisfied the enemy that
nobody would know where it was. Thus the
natural resources of Australia are pushed along by
Exhibitions.
• •
Dear Bulletin, —There is a fine flavour
O? gilt-edged snobbery about somebody or
other connected with the Sydney Southern
Theatrical Society—if the programme of a recent
performance is anybhing to go by. I find the
President, the Vice-President, the librarian, the
committee, the auditors, the call-boy, in fact the
whole concatenation, have “ Esquire ” after their
names saving alone poor Charlie Burford, the
stage-manager, who foots the bill as plain “Mr.”
O. H. Burford. All the members of the committee
who live in alleged aristocratic localities have their
addresses after their names, while tho c e who don’t,
but whose occupations entitle them neverthelef s to
rank as “pure merinos,” have the “place they
work at ” appended as though it were a title of
nobility— pa?’ example, “ Hon. Treasurer,
——, Esq., Lands Department.” The explana-
tion of the differentiating of the esquires and the
mere solitary mister is that the esquires do their
work in connection with the society for nothing,
while the “ mister ” gets paid. Very good. But
how do they explain this line in another part of
the programme “ Furniture kindly lent by
A. B. Pyke.” Poor Pyke lends the chairs and
the tables and yet he is neither “esquired” nor
“mistered.” Pyke should see to this and insist
on being esquired next time he lets the Society
have the use of his furniture for nothing.—l am,
etc., Timi Piripi.
* • •
“Jack” Conway, editor of the Sydney
Licensed Victuallers’ organ, in his last number
attempts to show that red noses, and pimples, and
grog-blossoms, &c., arise not from hard drinking,
but from gluttony and tight-lacing. This is what
we call Loyalty to the Cause. Jack Conway de-
serves well of his patron, Mr. Bung.
• * *
Apropos of the appointment of colonial
Governors, Max O’Rell thinks that the Secretary
of State should pay more attention than he does
to the merits and demerits of the candidates’
wives. There is a heap of sense in this sugges-
tion, too, for, as a rule, Governors’ wives have
WHAT TO DO WITH THE DEAD HUSBANDS.
Dr. Cooper, of Pittsburg (U.S.), has invented a process by which the remains of the dead are
compressed and preserved in various shapes. The man who marries a widow, therefore, will have the
melancholy pleasure of dodging his predecessors.
more real influence in ouah kawlonies than their
figure-head husbands have. All of which reminds
us of old Mrs. Marigold’s remark when to’d that
her nice clergyman was about to be mariied : “ I
hopes as how he will make a good match, but we
generally find that when the gentleman is haffable
the lady is ’aughty.”
* •
An old Sydney resident died not long
since leaving freehold properties estimated to be
of the value of £400,000. Now that affairs have
been gone into by the executors it is discovered
that the bulk of the properties in question are let
on long leases at ridiculously low rentals—rentals
in many cases not representing 25 per cent, on the
annual value. The consequence, of course, is that
the properties, which are about to be realised upon
in terms of the will to square up accounts with
the legatees, will be worth only a fraction of their
ostensible value.
• • •
Aaron Waxman Is dead and gone, but the
long-dated promissory-notes given him by his
victims still go marching on. It has just trans-
pired in a Melbourne insolvency case that Aaron
cashed a £lO,OOO bill for £lOOO. When are we to
get at the very best record of this boss usurer?
• •
A British lady visitor to Maoriland says
that the art of conversation is unknown in that
country. Wherever she went for fifteen weary
months the talk among her acquaintances never
rose above the utility of washing with kerosene
and the sins of the servant-gal.
• • •
A wealthy Melbourne man of 72| has re-
cently married a sweet young thing of 22.
• * #
If the question “Is marriage a failure ?”
had been put “ Is spinsterhood a success ?’’ there
might not have been so much room for discussion.
None but self-acknowledged old maids could have
argued in the affirmative. Is there such a thing
as a self-acknowledged old maid ’—Like.
The action brought in the N.S.W.
Supreme Court against the Union Bank for block-
ing up a couple of neighbouring windows and
thereby shutting out the daylight which had been
enjoyed for 30 years reminds one of the suit
brought by James M‘Kean, solicitor (“long”
M'Kean) sgainsb the late J. G. Francis. In erect-
ing his mansion at East Melbourne, Mr. Francis
built a big wall against Mr. M‘Kean’s library
window which shut out the light of Heaven from
the lawyer. The case went to court, but Mr.
Francis did nob fight to a finish ; he thought dis-
cretion the better part of valour and caved in.
Mr. Francis knew well that it required a long
spoon to sup kail with the devil.
W • •
Matrimonial “ ad.” from the Yorkshire
Post :
GOTr—BOOSESeptember 18th, at St. George’s
Church, Bickley, Kent, by the Very Reverend the Dean
of Worcester, unole of the bridegroom, assisted by the
Reverend Alexander Gott and the Reverend G. Weldon,
vicar of the parish, Captain George Arthur Gott, eon of
the late William Ewart Gott, of Armley House, near
Leeds, to Gertrude Alice, daughter of Charles Boosey,
Esquire, of The Pines, Bickley, Kent.
Gott Boosey, did he ? Great Scott!
From Smith to Carington—from the pawn-
shop to the yawn-shop.
* * •
A Zurich physician has just opened an
establishment called the “ Zungenbad,” where he
professes to cure persons of disease by dog-licking.
The only difficulty, he says, lies in “selecting the
proper dog to lick.”
The idiosyncrasies of a recently-married
member of the police force stationed at Potato-
ville (Vic.) are a source of no little amusement to
the inhabitants of that progressive though some-
what uneventful town. The newly-hitched couple
are, as all newly-hitched couples should be, very
much attached to each other, and take the
greatest pains to make the fact patent to the
public. For instance, when “on jooty ”it is the
delight of No. 12345 to be accompanied by the
wife of his bosom—that is, when the absence of
the dreaded Sub-inspector renders such a proceed-
ing practicable. One evening last week the pair
were “ doing jooty ” in one of the principal streets
when a poor old toper, popularly known as
“Murphy the Jigger,” happened to cross their
beat. The Jigger was filled with colonial ale, and
No. 12345 was brimming over with a deßire to dis-
play his prowess to the partner of his joys and
sorrows. The result was that the quidnuncs of
“ the block ” were treated to the enlivening spec-
tac’e of the haples3 Jigger dragged to the watch-
house by the efforts of the zealous Robert and his
Amazonian spouse.
A secret marriage in high life has just
been solemnised by a certain Australian Regis-
trar-General. The groom is a venerable and
exalted figure in the political and social world and
his blushing bride was many years ago reckoned a
beauty. She is not uncomely now.
The Rev. R. Caldwell, of Sydney, says
Sunday school teachers should be winsome and
attractive. No doubt Sunday-school teachers
think parsons should be attractive too.
C. C. Marshal, the Sydney dentist, say 3
the Australian’s teeth resemble the American’s,
and are not quite so durable as those of the
English, Irish, Scotch, or German. He does not
believe that the absence of lime in the water-
supply has much to do with this ; his
theory being that the chief cause is the mating in
marriage of people with large and small jaws. He
says it is quite a common thing to find
children with the small jaws of the ma-
ternal and the large teeth of the paternal
parentage, the result being a most irregular
set of teeth. Hitherto we have filled our head
with the idea that all the jaw was on the mother’s
side, and we fear that dentist Marshall’s theory,
like our cablegrams and financial statements,
requires a deal of confirmation.
It is likely that the breach of promise
suit of Phyllis Broughton, the actress, against
Lord Dangan will be compromised by a trifle of
£15,000.
* * #
Bogan squatter’s daughter (on a visit to a
Bhearing-shed, to her mother): “ Why, mamma,
shearers are just like men ! ”
# * *
Sir Charles Burdett, a dead-beat and sock-
less baronet with a shocking bad hat, has just
been sentenced by the Auckland (N. Z.) Bench
to 14 days “ hard,” for stealing flowers from
one of the public parks, and the bosoms of some of
the N, Z. papers are lacerated with grief at the
spectacle of a member of the “ old nobility ”
breaking stones and picking oakum. The poor
man has had a varied career ! He is descended
from a family who had been settled in Yorkshire
before the wars of the Roses, and he is the
seventh baronet. He once held a commission in
the army, bub falling into evil courses he was
“packed off” to the colonies by his relatives,
where he has eked out a subsistence at gum-
digging, bush cooking, and the like, varied by an
occasional burst when a certain rich baroness—his
cousin—sent him a remittance.
• » •
An ingenious foreigner has invented a
double-seated tricycle which requires neither
hands nor feet to propel it, thus saving a vast
amount of labour and perspiration. The owner
and his wife seat themselves in the vehicle, and
then his mother-in-law runs behind and shoves.
* * •
Last yaar 15 Chinamen were married in
Queensland —one to a native of the colony, one to
a Victorian native, two to Scotch women, three
to Irish women, and eight to English women.
He : “ Good-bye, wifey; if I’m detained
by business and can’t come home, I’ll send a tele-
gram.” She (frigidly): “ You needn’t trouble,
dear. I’ve got the telegram. I took it out of
your pocket an hour ago.”
* • *
Is marriage a failure ? Why, yes, to be sure.
Rut, oh ! abolition won’t furnish a cure.
Whilst thousands of spinsters in solitude tarry,
It’s clearly a failure —because men won’t marry.
• •
Colonel Balneavis, of
Auckland (N.Z ), some-
time aide-de-camp to Go-
vernor Sir George Grey
was a Pakeha-Maori, he
having married a full-
blooded native woman,
by whom he had two
daughters two of the
prettiest brunettes ima-
ginable one of them
taking the cake as the
belle of Auckland during
the war ISO 3-7.
» • *
Dear Bulletin, — In
your last issue the airy
Sappho asserts that “sun-
light becomes every
woman.” Allow me to
move an amendment. I
saw some females on the
Block yesterday car-
riage folk among them.
They had complexions
like boiled pork, and
nothing would become
them so much as the bot-
tom of a coal-pit at mid-
night.—l OP,
• •
Tne vain - glorious
Mrs. Frank Leslie is
eternally inciting the con-
ductors cf English societ y
papers to intimate that
she has. just refused so-
und so in marriage. To
satirize this monotonous
habit of the much-adver-
tising lady, it is now an-
nounced by a malicious
pressman that Mrs. Leslie
receives so many propo-
sals that she is compelled
to answer them by filling
up a printed form, of
which she keeps a large
supply.
» ¥
A Sydney society scribess now writes it
Mrs, Jenkyn-Smibh. It used to be “Jenkin”
with no hyphen. By-and-bye it will be Jenkyn-
Smythe. Later on we may look for Jenkyne-
Smijthe.
* • *
The Whitechapel murderer has been des-
cribed to the police as a “swellish” individual.
Unfortunately the Whitechapel definition of a
‘ ‘ swell ” is about as reliable as a barmaid’s idea of
“a perfect gentleman.”
SOMETHING WET!
Hot! Great Scott! Just ain’t it hot!
The earth is baked to a clod.
Dry ! My eye ! Just ain’t I dry !
I’m dry as a wooden god.
A pub ! and I think I’ll stop for a drink —
A drink never hurb me yet;
Hi! bring me a hogshead—l don’t care what,
So long as it’s something wet.
Sweet Essie Jenyns, so the stories
Spread abroad by wily Bill,
Of “ home ’ engagements, London glories,
After all, have come to nil;
While yet the fashion and the rage,
You’ll settle down and quit the stage.
O ! prudent lady, wise as clever,
Fame is but a bubble fair,
Blown to-day then gone for ever,
Vanished, melted into air,
How many Essies sigh in vain,
And wish they’d not appeared again !
The tragic star or prima-donna’s
Time of triumph soon is dead ;
Bub you retire with blushing honours
Thick upon your youthful head ;
Ere ’bwas your lot to taste defeat
You beat a well-arranged retreat.
In days to come, when future darlings
Of the people lose their charms—
When failing biz. and critics’ snarlings
Fill their souls with wild alarms—
Then you, an abdicated Queen
May laugh to think what might have been.
Sit in the circle, gay and smiling,
And watch some new, aspiring miss,
While folks around, her art reviling,
Say, “ Wasn’t Essie fine in this ! ’
For things that were, seen from afar,
Look better than the things that are.
No pitfalls now, in which to stumble,
Beset your smoother path in life—
No jealous pros, to storm and grumble—
No part to learn, save that of wife ;
And, having learned ’neath Cupid’s spell,
You’ll play that part exbremely well.


Shirt v your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
PAiii i R ii Kt Pi,ot n I is made in tbp colony from the
best co - ms*! *fje it by ti e newest patented machinery
The qualit) te exceptionally scocd, and the price very low.
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and comfort. Mudi'
man, “ My Tailor," 154 King-street, Newtown.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
Civil Service Revised Edition—“ Give us
this day our daily loaf. ”
Send for plans and pamphlets of £lO allotments,
Paddington Estate, Perth, West Australia. The
Intercolonial Investment Co., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
Latin is a very dead language up at Man-
ning River (N.S. W.) A local editor speaks of “ a
hundred thousand miners mad with ami sana
fames.”
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
In Gipps Ward, Sydney, alone there are
60 whisky mills ; in a radius of 308 yards there
are 31 ; >n a radius of 220 yards from junction of
King and Castlereagh streets 29 ; in a radius of
396 yards from junction of William and Bourke
streets 34—and so on.
£1 Deposit will sec' .'ood Building Site,
Paddington Estate, Pcicj, West Australia.
Don’t neglect ttr's opportunity of making money.
Plans, W. J. Douglas, 96 Bathursb-st., Sydney.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street, North, Sydney, Nov. 28, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
Tire son cf a gentleman whose name has been lately
mentioned ts a probable Australian Govt me r, recently
conducted to the matrimonial altar a young Hebe who
had been the presiding genius at a well known oity
hostelry. There h;s been quite a flutter in “ eassiety ”at
the prospect of meeting her under the gubernatorial iegis.
The following speaks for itself: —Dear Sappho,—ln
your letter of Nov. 14 you complain of a local “Mrs.
Jellaby ” conferring ‘ old-w. rid titles” on the colonial
squattocraoy, while in the previous column you perpe-
trate the same egregious blunder yourself in describing
the dresses worn by tbe Hon Misses Loch on Cup day.
Do ycu not know, adorable Mise—ah— Svmith that no
lady below the rank of a baron's daughter is permitted to
prefix the courtesy title of lion, to her cognominal appel-
lation ? By-the-bye, wlile we are on the “Loch,’ permit
me to inform jou that my wife—alas ! I have a wife—
persists in considering the fancy eke toh at the bead of
your papers to be a portrait of Lady Loch, and invariably
greets them with the exclamation, “Ha [there is Lady
Loch again.” But I know, by intuition, that it is a life-
like presentment of your own sweet telf. —Yours de-
votedly, Trotter Bkthuke
There is a Trouble (with a big T) at the Melbourne
Women’s Hospital, and it all arises from the simple fact
that the Australian infant isn’t ear marked from its birth.
Tbis is how it is. The babes arc taken out daily to the
scullery cf‘the institu'ion and wa‘hed in lots, and it is
feared that, owing to the indiscrimii ate m ; xing up that
occurs duiiog the proci si, the wrong infant is frequently
returned to its floating mamma. The question then
arose, “ Could the maternal instinct go wrong ?" and the
hospital doctor uttered comfjrting assurances that such
a thing wasn’t possible. Yet s'on after it was found
that when babes are taken to bi christened in batches
the precaution is taken of pirn ing the n other's name on
each childs clothing. If, then, a full-dress d cherub
requires a recognising mark, how much more does a naked
infant hauled indiscriminately out cf a tub full of others,
reejuire branding ? And tl at is why there is trouble in
the Genevieve Ward wing.
The excellent concert at Sidney Y.M.C. A. Hall on the
20th Nov., in aid cf the widow and orphans of the late Dr.
Browne (who was killed I y a fall from bis horse at Minmi,
N.S.W.), was under the patronage of Lady Carington and
in tbe presence cf ail medical Sydr ey and his wife, with a
fair attendance cf laymen, the hall being crowded almost
to the top cf the stairs. Many i ice frecks were worn
An Empire gown of old gold liberty silk softened with
white mulled muslin ; a eage-greon poplin directoire coat
over a jupe and vest of salmon-pir k f ilk ; a black silk
mest picturesquely arddariogly slashed with epper-red ;
and an ivory silk, brocaded with pink flowers w'ornwith
an empire sash of sage-green silk, v. hil-.t a di emend brooch
gleamed pcetioally o'er the w a ers diaphragm, were
amongst the mest noticeable, and tbe fat voman came in
cardinal ea'ia of io bright a hue th.tp ople rear her
looked as if they were sitting in a dreught sunsj. On
the platLrm, Mies Saville (who was furiously applauded
on her appearance) were a striped cream satin bodice
and draperies over a jupe of cream lace —tan gloves, huge
white ostrich feather fan with pearl sticks and diamonds
here, there and everywhere. The concert was an artistic
triumph—a “feast” as the oogncscenti invariably express
it. By the way, it is a fact that Lucy fastens his hyacic-
thine locks back from his ample ears with a hair-pio.
According to a Brisbane paper Mrs. Mona Caird is a
South Australian and giar d-flaughter tf a one-time
Adelaide Savings Bank manager, her maiden name b.-ing
Alice Alison. Sbe is s id to be elegantof figure and taste-
ful of dress and “looks essentially a leader of society,”
and we all know wbat that means, don’t we? “L'aders
of society ” never look like advocates of free love.
A correspondent writes that Nymagee gathered its
“ blood, bone, and beaufy ” on 26. h October, to hold high
festival on the occrsionof the first district ball, wbioh
proved a great success. The ladies were charmingly cos-
tumed, and clearly proved that taste and refinement may
exist even under the sweltering sun of the Far West. The
ice so liberally supplied by the c:mmittee was much ap-
preciated. It is pcs’t've ego y to think of ice with the
ihermcmeter standing ai 116 in the shade. Even liquid
mud will, in the West, soon be numbered amongst tbe
luxuries of the past. Suoh a danoe at such a season is
another evidence of the Sparfan-like spirit of the far-back
pastoral ists.
I read that “in the work-rooms only of one leading
Melbourne draper there were over £2OOO worth cf cos-
tumes being made for tbe Cup ’ the week before that
event. Mest of those frocks were dreams of beauty—so
many yards of material delight, made up on a lining and
lo reduce the wearer's bosom friend to “ cat”
point at a glance, if the glance could be arranged, but at
Flemingtoa on big race days ladies perch cn the grand-
stand from 10 am. to 6 pm and might just as w'ell be
buri d for all the “show” they can make. This s’ate of
things is allowed lo be a’most unbi arable, at d for expen-
eivfly-ati ired fimininity to be forced to sit seven hours on
wooden benches apprars ai if the Y.R.C intended the
dear things sbeu’d do penance for coning to tbe course.
To ob' fit) this it was rec'ntly suggested that the com-
mittee adopt tbe plan of numbering scats and letting
them for the day, like s ats at a theatre, so that I d e 3
could occasionally leave their seats to “d)” the lawn
without having them immediately “jumped” and then
have to stand on one foot for the rest of the meeting after
the manner of weary womanhood. I hope the “reserved
seat” idea oomes off.
Lord and Lady Carington will probably leave for the
vice-regal country residence at Moss Vale at the olose of
N ivember or early in December.
We have had columns of gush in the Australian daily
press over the Duke of Aosta’s marriage—the gowns, the
glories and the joyings have been breathlessly chronicled
by soribes who would prefer to prepare such royal “copy”
prone rather than upright, I believe, but we haven’t pre-
viously had this picture shown us of the wedding guests:—
“The King, old before bis time; the Prince of Naples
visibly effete; the Queen’s nerves still in the shaken state
into which they were thrown by the attempt made in her
presence to shoot Humbert; the King of Portugal in the
last stage of a malady that pardons not; Plon-Plon suffer-
ing from the same malady, and rolling and lumberiDg in
gait, but ment vlly alive. The magnificent necklaces of
two of the Royal ladies could not, though they went
round and round their necks, hide goitrous swellings,
The old Duohess of Genoa, rheumatic, wrinkled, hobbling
rather than walking, was deoked out in diamonds, and
touched up like a ‘ restored ’ picture.” What a cheerful
collection to get married amongst!
The proprietary cf the Sydney Crystal Palace Rink
have introduced weekly promenade oonoerts at the rink,
as a summer attraction ; the first came off very success-
fully on 24th inst. The list of artistes includes the Miises
Frances Saville, Colbourne Baber, Dora Wiley, and Elsa
Sherwir.
I am requested to notice a “private dance” given by
the bachelors of Chatswocd (n a reoent occasion, when,
according to my correspond-nt, “ a programme of no les3
than l(i danceß were gone through.” In the face of a re-
mark like that, I can only hold on to something firmly
while I go on to say that Mr. Michael O’Sullivan made
“an efficient M C.," and that the music was supplied by
Mr. John Coglan, the “ famous Irish piper.”
People interested in the career of the juvenile pianiste,
Elsie Stanley-llall, of Sydney, will be pleased to hear
that the child has passed a very excellent examination at
the Stuttgart Conservatoire. It is said that one of the
professors, in complimenting Miss Hall on her ability,
expressed a wish to become the ohild's teacher.
A correspondent sends me a detailed account of the
weddmg rf Mr. A. D. Brodie and Mi's Lena Taylor at
THE CHINESE INVASION.
BRITISHER: “MY YOUNG FRIEND, YOU SEEM TO UNDERRATE THE CHINESE.
THEIR ARMY IS VERY LARGE, AND THERE ARE LOTS OF PRITISH
OFFICERS IN IT.”
VICTORIAN MOUNTED RIFLEMAN: “THEN I PITY THEM.”
Murrurundi. The bride, who was given away by her
father, wore ivory satin and lace, and was attended by
six bridesmaids in cream lace skirts and satin bodices.
The happy man had four groomsmen to see bim through,
but my correspondent forgot to state what they had on,
poor thiDgs !
Captain Bsdea Powell, aide-de-camp to the late Sir
Anthony Musgrave, has gone to Xew Guinea. No reason
is assigned for the rash act.
A correspondent request! me to state that the first
Sydney Savage Club re-union, which took place on 19th
inst., at the Club rooms, 393 P.tt-street, went off satisfac-
torily in the presence cf 175 ladies and gentlemen and
a brass band. Acting, singinplaying, and dancing,
filled the bill on this occasion. The Savages intend hold-
ing a re-union every third Monday in the month.
In connection with the now forgotten excitement of the
Melbourne Cup a correspondent tells me a simple anecdote
about three young men who arrived in the Cabbage-
Garden the evening before the event. With all the gay
insouciance cf youth, they drove from place to place to
find board, but, as time wore on and nobody would take
them in, it dawned upon them that they might camp on
a verandah, and that, if Policeman X discovered them,
there was a possibility that he would “ run them in,” and
so would they secure cleaD, if cot luxurious, acoommoda-
tion for the night. Strong in this blessed hope, they
stretched themselves obtrusively on the bare boards of a
verandah, and—remained there unchallenged the whole
night through ! You never can find a policeman when
you want him !
Baron Carington willperform the extremely arduous task
of waving a trowel over the “Lang Memorial” founda-
tion-stone in Wynyard-square, Sydney, on the oth De-
cember. And, apropos of foundation-stones, Lady Loch’s
herculean efforts in declaring the first brick of the Mel-
bourne Convalescent Hom 9 for Women well and truly laid
cn 21st Nov , drew quite a fashionable crowd, who, how-
ever, didn t oome to meditate cn the expensive virtue of
charitableness, but to gaze on Lady Loch's get-up, which
consisted of ivory silk adorned with lace and a v.ry airy
bonnet of tulle.
I heard a weird and awful tale the other day about what
happened to a young and blushing house-agent wbo was
being shown over an inhabited villa by the chatelaine
thereof. They had done the cellars, kitohen, dining-
room, everything on the basement and then they ascended
to the upper rooms. "This,” said the lady, throwing
open a door with a bang, “is the bath .” The re-
mainder of the compound word was lost in several
agonised shrieks, a brief vision of salmon-pink, and a
splash of water.
“ You were misinformed, Miss Sappho,” writes a Mel-
bourne correspondent, “ about Captain Ogilvie's engage-
ment to a Victorian belle. ‘ Eyeglass ’is nobody’s fianeb,
though that may not be his fault.”
If the Pope intends bestowing the order of “martyr-
saint" on anybody, I should like to submit to his Holiness
that Lady Carington is eligible for a halo, for, on 24th
Nov., despite frightful heat and dust, shs j lurneyed to
the Liverpool-street gymnasium to distribute the prizes,
ac3oiding to promise.
The marriage of Captain Atwell Lake, the popular
commandant of that squat old hulk the Nelson (which
is long and sincerely mourned by the Point on
account of her unequalled dancing space !) and Miss
Constance Turner, daughter of Lieutenant-General
Turner, is announced to take place vet/ shortly in the
Big Smoke.
A Sydney weekly, in an irresistible fit of grovel, re-
cently published the photo, of Lord and Lady Carington’s
youngest child Ruperta with her favourite dog “ Tim,”
while a yard of letter-pres! minutely desoribos the
twinkle in the vice-regal infant’s eye, and the expression
in the fingers of the vice-regal left hand as it “ dosed over
the cord with an evident expression of proprietorship.”
How Inexpressibly, breathlessly interesting, isn’t it ? No
wonder that within a week the office of that paper was
burnt down 1 The next thing—well, I expect
With rapt joy in ehe Jkrnh/s choiie page 3 we’ll see
The “ v.ce-regal d >g Tim ” and his favourite fl ja.
Miss Detchon— vho pronounces her surname Dcs eohong,
by the way—held her presumably final recital at the
Gaiety Theatre on the 23rd Nov. in the presence of a
S.R.O. house. The beauteous maiden intends taking a
rest on the Blue Mountains before leaving New South
Wales, but, as no dates are fixed elsewhere', she will
probably appear again in the City of the Beautiful Har-
bour.
Listen to this. The members of the “Sh Andrew’s
Cathedral Young Men's Institute ” discussed in debate in
wo current evenings last week “Thomas Carlyle’’and
J ‘ William B ach.” Wha 1 a ra~ge cf suhjec*s !
Encore, Bridget! An artiole appeared in a recent issue
of the S.M.H. suggesting a “sliding scale in the rate cf
wages for domestic servants, of whom there are nearly
20,000 in Sydney and suburbs, distributed over about
70,000 houses, while there are not half that number of
coal miaers in the colony, and their remuneration is fixed
according to the ruling prioe of coal.” In short, it is ad-
vanced that Bridget’s wage should vary as the price of
her keep inoreases or diminishes. Taus as butter rises
Bridget, in a financial sense, gors down ; as butter goes
do wn Bridget goes up, in a sort ot social see-saw. The
idea is a good one and extremely feasible as far
as we are concerned, but how would the de-
scendants of the O'Toole cotton to the innova-
tion? Might we not find that, as bitter went
up and Bridget camrdown, the mortality amongst the
china would assume gigantic p-eportions and the joints
be blacker outside and more underdone in than ever
before ? Bridget is really monarch of all she surveys just
now, and if arrangements don’t suit her she will create
chaos until they d —at least, that is the experience cf
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH
In New South Waloa there is a parish
called Metz, under a trustee called M‘Bain.
In hla work, “ How the Poor Live,” pub-
lished some years jjago, G. R Sims clearly fore
shadowed the awful murders that are now horrify-
ing London.
Ah Toy’a case for damages against the Vic-
torian Government is still dragging itself along.
In valuing the loss and damage suffered by the ill-
used yellow person, it was sworn that he was
capable of earning £3 a week in China, and Chong
Goey stated that he was absolutely yearning to
pay him £4 every Saturday to labour in the
cabinet-making business. Which leads us to re-
mark that truth is getting to be so much stranger
than fiction that it ought to b 9 abolished as being
a dangerous thing to handle, and apt to explode if
not treated with sufficient precaution.
A London paper says that Boehm’s effigy
of Gordon was hoisted into its place on the pedes-
tal in Trafalgar-square, and a more ridiculous
operation could hardly be conceived. A rope was
tied round the statue’s neck, and it was ignomin-
iously hauled up like a condemned criminal, amid
the unconcealed jeers of the lookers-on. The
illusion was heightened by the fact that the face of
the statue was wrapped in a dirty white cloth,
which resembled the white cap used by hangman
Berry, while a gentleman in a tall hat, who
directed the operations from the pedestal, re-
presented the sheriff.
After musing for a few days In the hot
sun, the Hay (N.S.W.) Record man has come to
the conclusion that what Australia badly wants is
a new coat-of-arms. The prevailing feature of
Australian social life is the intense desire to give
a testimonial t) someone because he is leaving
somewhere, and ib is therefore suggested that a
capsized hat gules, with the emu and the kan-
garoo each dropping in a copper, would about
meet the case. The idea is a good one, but still it
looks incomplete An empty bottle and a bank-
rupt politician’s feet sticking oub from underneath
a table form another aspect of the Australian sys-
tem which should not be overlooked, and these
ought to be inserted somewhere, even though the
coat-of-arms should burst with the pressure.
Then, if there is any space left in the back part of
the crest, a little design ought to be shoved in to
show a member of Parliament getbing roads made
through his private property with public money,
and on the cff side there might as well be some-
thing rampant concerning the smell in the Sydney
Scentennial Park. Also, if the Melbourne land-
boom could be worked in, along with a design
showing the last British Governor falling over-
board into the sea, Australia would have a coat-
of-arms which, for completeness and comprehen-
siveness, would wipe out the crests of all the
habitable globe now and for evermore.
For ways that are dark Yung Ah Jack
can give the famous Ah Sin a long start any time.
Mr. Jack, who is rather a celebrity in Melbourne,
was arrested at Albury on the arrival of the mid-
day train from the south on a recent Saturday for
evading the poll-tax. He smiled and promptly
produced his Victorian naturalisation papers, but
his look of contentment faded into dismay when the
Custom-house official in charge told him that a
new law had been passed, and that under it the
Victorian 'papers were of no account across the
border. A little pause ensued, in the course of
which th 9 officer looked at Ah Jack and Ah Jack
looked at him back again. Then suddenly a great,
boundless smile passed over the heathen’s face,
and he replied : “ Allee li. Spose me tellyglaff
to my wi f ee at Nalandela to makee polisman send
a wallant to Melboulne for allesbee me fo’ no
keepee her, how you dam law stop me cornin’
acloss then ?” This was an unmitigated staggerer
for the Customs Department, but the officer gave
the heathen in charge on general principles, and
he was locked up. Late that evening, however,
the sub collector heard of the event, and Ah Jack
was released and rushed back across the border in
the dead of night. A man who knew so much
wasn’t wanted in N, S. W.
A respected Sydney contemporary comes
out wibh a portrait of U S. President Harrison.
Harrison, until recently, was an unknown man in
Australia, bub the occasion seemed to demand a
portrait, and the artist fortunately managed to
raise one without committing himself much. It
was considered a safe thing to put on a beard in
order to lend an air of wisdom to the show ; be-
sides very few clean-shaved men ever rise to
eminence, and anyhow it saved the trouble of
drawing the front elevation of the lower jaw.
Most of the hair has been removed off the
top of the head to show that Harrison
has done a lot of hard thinking and has
come through his thatch, or if he hasn’t
he ought to have, and in any case it looks the
correct thing for a great man and seems to sorb of
fill the bill if there is a bill. The ear is planted in
the usual place, that being an organ which can be
taken on spec., and the only things which really
had to be struggled with were the eyes and nose.
It was absolutely necessary to put these in so as
to fill the space between the hair and the beard
else Harrison might have been taken for a map
with a range of mountains at each end, but in
filling in these little particulars the architect
has done nothing that it is necessary bo swear
to in any courb of justice. The eyebrows
have been bo a great exbent omitted, but the
student can fill these in bo suit his taste, and one
wrinkle which was commenced in a moment of
raih self-confidence was ultimately left unfinished.
Altogether Harrison’s nortrait suggests that the
designer received an order fora plain, safe-looking
man, aged there or thereabouts, and carried out
his instructions to the letter, and if the new
President wants to keep a'-'ad of the police, the
sketch can be relied up n tto give him away.
Toilers’ Rest.
They are, my friend, when star-girt night is
giving
Some kindly surcease from the swelb’ring day,
The only hours within our lives worth living ;
The sweetest freedom we can steal away
From the day world, set madd’ningof its clangour
And rampant with the tumult of unrest,
When from the east grows up the night with
langour,
And day glides down the vistas of the west.
Ah, what a claim to think and pause and wonder
In those lonely hours that we can call our own !
To finter Thought, that lies the work-day under—
Suppressed, to rise again when day has flown.
Ah, come to us, O Thought! tho’ life deluding,
Let us dream, tho’ worthless, in the precious
span
’Tween sunset and another day of feuding,
In that space alone that leaveth rest to man.
H. YOUNG.


Something New in Sewing Machines.
TKE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT
THE restless march of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
for the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ng, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, bub is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are.three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject.'of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us fqr the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
to the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery ; a herring-bone stitch for blankets,
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top-sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines —as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
erein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
abour, produce work of similar quality. And
emember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
each stitch is Locked. Button holps which
ught to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a "BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING. —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
M BLA O KINO.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Melachrino A Co., Cairo, and 21 Cockspur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dukh of Con-
naught, H.R.H. Prince Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
„ ARMY and NAVYI r j
CLUB | London
~ GUARDS’ CLUB ... London
„ CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY}
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
„ BLACK WATCH ...}
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
GUARDS ...
Windsor
„ ROYAL ENGINEERS}
„ LIFE GUARDS
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREN & ROWN,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
SAVANNA, MANILLA ul GERMAN CIGARS,
ALSO
US' Sole Agents for tlie Cademeno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7Commence 8. Carriages 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
And MISS KATE BISHOP
in
THE RAJAH or the COLLIERS’ STRIKE.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
MAGGIE MOORE, and J. C. WILLIAMSON
in their Famous Drama
STRUCK OIL
and the
CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
B
ON D I
AQUARIUM.
The most popular pionlo and pleasure grounds ol
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff bo Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m, Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
Favourite Comedian
Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
“THE.PRIVATE SECRETAR Y.”
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.”
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Mußio
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
"VrEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL.
IN Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
COMEDIANS, SINGERS, ACTORS, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Everything New, Original, and Refined.
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission—Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John C. Leete.
41 s
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
$. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AHD
MANUFACTURERS.
Batho’i Bakin* Powders. Orient Satan Bine.
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. BODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD ft CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY <fc PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET 0118. PERSIAN SBE&SET.
fro., fed.
BTBAM WORKS 8
HARMS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON * CO.’S
"MARRQWSONE LANE” WHISHT,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
Mrs. KNOWALL at SIX O’CLOCK at NIGHT.
m
TO
It is no good telling her about the Howe Howe Prepara-
tions, she will have her old way.
“ None but the most foolish would ever be without
them.”—Mrs. A. Sandon, Womerah Avenue.
£25 will be given to any lady solving the problem in this
picture and written matter ; also, 1611)00 for better com-
pounds than our own (one month allowed).
Americo Persian Starch Polish A Washing
Cream Co., SYDMEI.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Parramatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
£2O
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia, Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Abthob Gayll.
tar PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED H
BY
Thb Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price * ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for oommerolal
ventlemeu and others. Private sitting rooms,
tample rooms. JAMBS SIMONS, Proprietor.
Jj'BWTQ N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufaotoby :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by K. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
Bingle rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbing and O’Connell Stbbbts.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.-The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £6 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbbbtb.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobe, 4 feet, witn
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Gufboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbbbts.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. (!&. j
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
136 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
£JANVAS FOLDING
OHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Prloe Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’OoNNRi.t Stbbjbtb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustio
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Nbwton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Nbwton & Lamb, Importers, O’Oonnell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, has
nn»k«. *Uo Spiral Spring, from 14s. eaah
NEWTON and LAMB.


PJtfiE BEST XMAS PUBLICATIONS !
“ Socialities, |1888.”
Centennial Number.
OISE SHILLING; post, Is. 3d.
A charming Illustrated Work by the First Comic
Artists. 150 capital Woodcuts, numerous columns
of Humorous Letterpress ; also,
"MELBOURNE PUNCH” ALMANAC,
Centennial Number.
SIXPENCE ; post, Seven pence.
No breakfast table is complete without a copy of
this justly popular work. Laugh and grow fat!
You cannot enjoy life if your digestive organs are
out of order. Punch’s Almanac promotes good
digestion. It laughs away all the ills that flesh is
heir to. Illustrated throughout its numerous pages.
t£T All Booksellers and ALEX. M'KINLEY «S CO«,
51 Hunter Sireet, SYDNEY.
E P P S’ S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Western Australia is the Coning Colony,
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
“2 he very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those places,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverlgy-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will be the beginning of a new
era.”—Extract from Governor Broome’s speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO EACH LOT. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Land. Torrens’ Title
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the resulb. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 9G Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
THE
Sydney and Provincial Laid aid Building Co,,
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEX.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £57,460.
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £.‘{0,087.
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK. — Withdraw without notice.
Interest, 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. Gd. a week.
How to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
=v~ H P w P ‘U : iipji «
yI
w They fit perfectly, and art
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Marie Roze.
™ Y&m
PATENT
UiagonaJ Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
_ Corset stamped “ Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladles’ Outfitters
GBD.GBD GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The Best in the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Job Miitkiik & Co.,
231 CLARENCE STREET.
ows
EMBROCATIONyfV^
3
fh ;<l)
O
SOLD
'|eVERXsWHERE{{
ti * •*« given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbanb
SiUiUUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
Britten berg & co„
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Paddington Estate, Perth, West Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money
Plana. W J Douglas. 96 Batbnrst st.. Sydney
t G-rape t Dallas.©-
TRADE MARK—“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from RIPE FRUIT, and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CmillCll KILL, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
mHIS Magnificent Hotel is now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Eleotric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard ltoof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling I/ft. and
from which are obtainable ihe Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. ROWAN, Manager.
SSSMS
*
■* c
5 M
i-.i'' -I
imiwpiJlJOTl
wm
msm
m
■
BwWfww
HWWW flfi h(i, it *ll 1 )
jrag&HSM
j frSi
fTS
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
G
vrw mam) table show rooms & factor*
mHAB HJSHIONS, Sea., MADE ON THE PREMISES
gM Tables re- fitted by our «»wn mem,
«miS,HAf LBfc ■ stock, also ORICKETgLAWN TENNIS & !@W£§,
BURROUGHES & WATTS
D
Cl&xeia.d.©zi Hotel, 2v£a,rLl3T„
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
: x :
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Slippers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Ktlminstkr to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
§ HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
. ryh'it .
1
I 4
•"r- M'
Hz?
A. Otters £
,* •/
ELECTRIC PHOTO-EHC. CO., 8 BRIDCE-ST-. SYDNEY*
1. DELEFT
Proprietor.
r’TKST-CL.A.SIS Z3COTJSE,
Witts, Friuli Liquors & Savanna Cigar: a Speciality Boast, Caitiat Francaist,
LOVELY SKI
JssmtSful complexion, soft, smooth and delicate neck, faoe, iljstsds and urns ana bast lie
'iy discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, non beta* sltowsS ft?
SjaMfes a® W sMffi cannot possibly hay® any good effect on it, and by using
ftowlancta*
v J^alyaor
© aooling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and asms of SSL
SxpoMd to the heat and dust of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles
Jaa, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness of the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hart
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation;
burns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
jcleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin:
fit is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredient*, can foe used with impunity on th£
rakin of the most delicate lady or child,
, , *£< Mo and Sfio Mo per kotti® ; "bottle* <s£ Mf tito
sis© at 28 3d
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promote* She growth dr She mil-
ls also sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, preyente dlesay, anffl gfy«* C
pleasing fragrance to the breath Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS- MtWe& d! 3), Ifottaß
'Bhwdaoi. London, and a,old cheap, worthlea* Imitation*
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Pbossbb & Go., Sydney,
The Referee.
111-luck seems to stick to “Jack ” Want s
yachts. The ill-fated Mignonette was built for
him, but affairs on board came to such a pass on
the way out to Sydney that the crew had to eat
the cabin-boy. Now Mr. Want’s 40-tonner, the
Miranda, ignominiously fails to get from Sydney
to Melbourne, while a G-ton craft like the Assegai,
with a crew of two men and a eat, makes the
voyage in safety. The Miranda had a rough time,
and was four days hove-to, unable to do'anything
owing to the heavy sea. The crew of the Miranda
must feel very small at being beaten on a trip of
this sort by a cockleshell like the Assegai. The
MelbQurne people appear to have made a great
hash of the yacht racing arrangements.
• • •
Nejt Saturday night, at Foley’s Hall,
eventuates the boxing match between Messrs.
Seale for thg amateur r cKampionship
of Australia. In his bouts <with Tighe, O’Don-
nell,'GosteMo,‘Jack>Hall^Lees, J N'ewtQn, 'McCarthy,
Fogarty, Pettengell, Burke,- and others,! Seale has
shown he possesses hitting power and 1 science of a
phenomenal nature. Sandall, beyond being
an undoubtedly powerful and plucky young
fellow and having knocked out a couple of
outsiders, has done nothing to show he can
successfully compete with such a master of the
art as the amateur champion. Report says
Sandall is going to stand off and compel Seale to
make the fighting. This is not the impetuous
Sandall’s natural style, and should he have the
patience to adopt it he will simply stand to be
chopped to pieces. Pettengell, of New Zealand,
tried these tactios, but with mo3t disastrous results
to his frontispiece.
* * *
Dick Sandall aforesaid, comes of fight-
ing stock. The other day the butcher-
shop of his father at Auckland was in
danger of destruction by fire. Sandall, pere
asked a rival butcher named Wells to assist
in saving the furniture, and on the latter refusing,
said he was a disgrace to the community and
ought to be drowned. A fight followed, in which
Dick’s daddy came out on top, but the belligerent
knights of the cleaver were pulled before the beak
and fined a “ thrifie ” of ss. each.
• • •
The annual precession between the Sydney
and Melbourne “representative” eight-oar crews
came off over the Parramatta course on Saturday
last when Melbourne, as usual, had not to row
hard enough “to keep themselves warm.” These
processions are becoming monotonous, and as sub-
cribers are merely paying to see their colony held
up to ridicule the advisableness of knocking such
so-called “races” on the head might well betaken
into consideration. We have spoken.
• » •
How is this thus ? Port Jackson has for
years been waiting for an opportunity to show she
could whip all creation in the building and sailing
of open and half-decked boats, but the result of
the Melbourne regatta lodes very much as if she
has all this time been residing in a fool’s paradise.
The Sydney built boat A ileen, considered one of
the crack 24-footers, could not run closer
than fourth on the second day of the Regatta,
and “ Podge ” Newton, who thought he had only
to take over his champion bona-fide fishing-boat,
the Admiral, and score a win, was compelled to
cry second fiddle co a boat called the Volunteer.
Lug-sails are the order of the day in Melbourne,
and the Sydneyites were so knocked of a heap to
see them holding a closer wind than the Sydney
orthodox gaff sails that a trial is sure to be given
them in Port Jackson. Tbu.re was nothing
“flukey” in the Victorian wins, as it blew a
spanking southerly breeze.
• # *
The British cricketing statistical compila-
tions for last season show that five professional
bowlers averaged under 11 runs per wicket.
* * •
Overheat d at Fiemlngton. Country
Cousin {loq.): “ M’ria, what fools them people
are, and you' as big a fool as them to jell ‘ they’r
off ! ’ Why, that jockey in red hasn’t moved yet!
He knows when it’s a false start, you bet.” N.B.
—He wa3 the clerk of the course.
• • *
Qceensland civil servants intend to peti-
tion the Government against transferring members
of their class from town to town during the cricket
season. Owing to such transfers last year several
club 3 lost their best men, and several other clubs
were so much strengthened that the business
arranged for the season either fell through or
finished up contrary to anticipations.
• * •
Railway Commissioner Eddy declined this
year to issue free passes to the cricketers of the
Sydney Lands Office on the occasion of their visit
to Melbourne, to play the annual match against the
Melbourne Lands Office. Railway Commissioner
Oliver, lately N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Lands,
and himself a cricketer of no mean capacity, has,
however, handsomely provided the players, 13 in
number, with first-class return tickets at his own
expense. Heretofore free passes have also been
given to the wives, sisters, cousins, and aunts of
the players, but each cricketer will, under the
present regime, have to pay for such luxuries.
9 * , *
Again. Beach, 1 ; Hanlan, 2. Will some
kind person please kill Mr. Ilanlan ?


Business Announcements.
tar thb ONiL.Tr
Sired Supply Association!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
t
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355.
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
□
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 80s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. 6d.
Patent Steel „ ~ ... 355. Od.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
Mil MU S«5,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each,
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Snitar, Cello, Viola Double Bits, Harp,
Mar, k, k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
6, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 n n i. £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES PITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to,
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEIW, Manager,
888 George Street,
SYDNEY,
A patient in Brisbane Hospital cut his
throat with a piece of china a week or two back.
Foolish fellow ! He would have found the doctor’s
method much pleasanter.
A witness acknowledged in Melbourne
County Court, the other day that “ there was no
disgrace in going insolvent.” The gospel accord-
ing to St. ’Enery is spreading in this, our Cen-
tenary year.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s artioles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Fort, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled Hlgh-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
E.C
ETI S T\f
ILLY
Im
aft
9>
<3:
C*
A
£
*
A
<o
<8
V
&
v
O
sc>
&
$?
$
O
&
<3
&
9
o
v
&
<o
-
X s
0
&
\
O
(>
&
O
<< N
v
v
V
<<>
>3
*
O
390 a GEORGE S T
Dotage—Anecdote- age.
You can always deal with a rogae if he be
big enough. Ned Kelly can be captured and
hanged despite his tin pot armour, but when Ned
Kelly is disseminated over a joint-stock usury
company the devil hasn’t a net comprehensive
enough for the haul.
A woman may lose her virtue but retain
her modesty. Who is more baehful than she who
brings a jug to the public-house under her red
shawl ? She enters not the bar but waits in the
thick shadow of the private passage while the
barmaid pumps the poison for her lonely orgy.
William’s Australian Inseotlolde le death to all Insects.
Simple In application—sure In eUeot. This Is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being oertaln death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseotioide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
a d E. Proseer & Co *
K
SCENTS
o
HP
S
• S
T
O
u
T
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
' 3& o Barmcr Street.
ÜBA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
’ ?
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAT
PARTICULAR ATTEHTIOH TO THE RUYIRR OP TEAS.
• 101
INDENTS ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES 7
The But Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS W
1« YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
•■ia Agents los the Above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers ol Reqalsltes lor the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery
,mported Leathers, &e. j and ol the following Speotal LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH 1
‘StfBUN muhTTKO. Tool. NS.V..UI.
DR. RIGHARD,
OM
RO
L'T
CO
D?
? RICHARDS
m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
( DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
f BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONI POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Be awt to mention this paper when writing,
Consultation Fsjei
TAKING IN THE SITUATION.
LADY OF THE HOUSE : “YOU CANT GET ANYTHING TO EAT HERE !”
GENTLEMAN OF THE ROAD: “DON’T EXPECT TO, MUM. I NOTICED THE
CONDITION OE YOUR DOG AS I SAUNTERED IN. I MERELY ASK
CIVILITY AND A LIGHT FOR MY CIGAR!”


XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xx
Xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Business Announcements.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street
xxxx£xxxxxxx:&xxxxxxx
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
TT
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
B R U ST T O IPS
BOY Alt PATENT STEEL ROLLBB
FLOTJR
Clan be obtained throughout New Soath Wale*,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 84 Pith Stbiks.
BRISBANE... M ...Edwabd Stbbbb.
MELBOURNE ... _ Bpawcma Bnn*.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
The Greatest Success! / AH Chronio Disease
of Modern Times. / 00N8UI,T \ are Curable.
Hr, 1. E, KBSELMN, Consslting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distanoe.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
oomplete oure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880
to H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir, —This iB to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expeotorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the oure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
dootors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
liectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
ungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering Bhould avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness —J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
KST All Consultations Free. Tt
Notioe.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whloh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
hot being Effected.
i S3VEREIO? BEHEST
TO all Afflioted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolobeux, Aching Fains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Wh7 suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM'S RHEUMATIC FILLS
Will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few dan I
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary, In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and IBs.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Byes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its.agenoy oan be seen. Admitted by the Medloal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
I. L ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 G-eonra-street, only.
WANTED, Flies of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher. Bulletin
Q-131ST 3D t HOTEL,
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
mk
COSCROVt
$
m
M
ainjM
JtLitf
9
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) , M Proprietress.
’i HE
' PL UM
Razor.
THE]
" PLUM "
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for nse. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Prioe—Single Razor. 10s. 6d.
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKENp Potosl Haircutting Saloon,
tSB" Nine Hair cutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents i
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
* erdriau *§& C3o.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washhbs, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber gooda lor all purpoaea
Lists and Samples on Application.
msmiM
m
m
Tn cdnseqvenco of Imitation j of THE OHUf
SAUCS tv kick aft calculated to deceive thePitblit,la»aMd fkwrA gjj
have & inquest that Purehawt Ut that
hears tkefr Signatufi tfiu>»
em& CtteM 99 bottle of th original WOItC&TSRSmBB
SAUCE it genuine.
&2&§qg9 PERRIU& Sauce, and vet Name on Wrapt**, Labet, BetSe amM
L,. fi VhoissaU and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester i Crosse 'mm
lfcr/& London, J and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Woptih
• Om P«*fo Omar » oC fSttUm
Recreation ! Instruction ! Amusement !
THE
LATEST
AND
MOST FASCINATING
RECREATION
is
PHOTOGRAPHY!
FOR
AMATEURS,
TOURISTS,
SCIENTISTS,
CAPTAINS, &c.
/»
m
ZJ-
It
M
NOTHING
BETTER
THAN THE
CAMERA!
for
ARMY,
NAVY,
POLICE,
WAREHOUSEMEN,
So, So.
New Issue Illustrated Catalogue. Send 2d. stamp
LICHTNER & CO.,
f
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Assurance Companies.
THB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGB-
MBNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, If Vl*,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital 51,188,111
Pald-np and Subscribed m SSI,III
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.LA., Deputy*
Chairman.
This Company reoelves deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years - 7 per oent. I For 1 year - 6 per oent
For 6 months 4 per oent. | For 8 months. 8 per oent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the oorporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, Including ltß uncalled oapltal, are
granted for Deposits of three yeats and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotlon and
Private Contraot.
Hiad Ovfioi —10, & 13 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manages.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1871.
CAPITAL, ASM, Ml.
Sydney Office,
Corner ol MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS i
8 months, 5 per cent.
® ® ii
U .. 7_ „
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of IS months, I
per oent. i months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager,
A. MILLER, Accountant.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan & Quarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capita* £600,000.
Sjdnej Offices; Corner of Mot & York Streets.
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued an the most Favourable Terms.
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commeroial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commeroial Securities.
DEPOSITS reoeived at 12 months, 7 per cent.; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, & per oent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Direotors.
BUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Business Announcements.
run
AUSTRALIAN
Christmas Card Series,
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THE MOST ARTISTIC SERIES PUBLISHED.
H. King, Photographer, 316 George St., Sydney,
BETWEEN O P.O. AND HUNTER STREETS.
TATTERS ALL’S
mini coimmion
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event*
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.—Two grand Water Frontages.
Parramatta and Lane Cave Riven. Adblf.
Bviutif Office, r


Everybody Bays— and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whit* Patknt Roi.lkr Flour is the
beet in the market.
BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the bait Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable t,r broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Boßisto’s ‘"Parrot" fcrand, and
avoid imitations, which can only n.d to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists, Bosisto’s “ Parrot h ‘and.
Tla.e G-reat Slb-ore Laxid Sale
The Carnarvon Estate !
OiTortli 33r<d.rLe3r,
With Frontages to FRENCH’S, SALISBURY and TULLOH ROADS (immediately off
North Sydney Road).
Will Sell by Auction, on the Ground,
On Saturday, Otln Deoeui tier s
At Three o’clock, the above Estate, in
120 Choice Building Allotments !
On the following Easy Terms:—
£3 Deposit on each Allotment, and the Balance at the rate of ss. per Week in Weekly,
Monthly or Quarterly Payments, with 6 per cent. Interest added.
’Busses will leave Milson’s Point at 2 o’clock on the day of sale.
Offices, Walker-street, St. Leonards, and 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Plan* and all * further information apply at the Auctioneers’
THE BEST SUB-DIVISION IN THE MARKET.
Missing Relatives.
Enquiries for relatives of the undermentioned
persons appear in a recent number of Lloyd’s
Weekly, London:—
Mary Am Ball, last heard of in Adelaide.
George Daniel Draper, last heard of in Adelaide.
.Tames Dyer, last heard of at Urskine street, Sydney.
Charles and Elizabeth Fidggitte, whose last address was
Ross, Tasmania.
Joseph Harding, supposed to have gone to Brisbane.
Robt. Parker, engineer, who went to N.Z. in 1863 or
1864.
Thos. Roberts, last heard of at Balaclava North, South
Australia.
•lohn and Elias York, who Were at kelson, N. 2., when
last heard of.
Henry Appleton left England in October, ’49, for Mel-
bourne, and lived for some time at Ballarat. Bis youngest
brother seeks him.
lames Berry left Croydon and sailed for Australia in
the Royal Dean, ’7O, last being heard of at Port Mackay,
Queensland, in ’Bl. His parents desire information.
Thomas Bedding left Sydney to go up country four
years ago. His mother makes inquiries.
David Biloock, last heard of as living in Lonsdale-street,
Melbourne, is sought by his sister Jane, who has not had
tidings of him for 15 years.
Benjamin Brown, who was last heard of at Gympie>
four years ago, is inquired for by his mother.
I Arthur Eraser Cassin, a compositor, left Capetown for
Adelaide four years ago. His mother is anxious to hear
from him.
George Coker, baker, went to N.Z. 15 years sinoe. His
lister wishes for news from him.
Charles Moreau Evans, formerly of Havant, Hants,
whose last letter was dated from Inverell, N.S.W.,
December 2, ’B2, is earnestly requested to write to his
anxious mother, who would be grateful for aDy news of
him.
William Giddings sailed in the John Elder for Australia
six years ago, and was last heard of at Bungendore,
Sydney, in ’B5. His parents wish to hear of him.
Thomas Gunning left Bath ’46, and went, it is supposed,
to Australia or Tasmania. His sister Annie would be glad
of news concerning him.
George Hollington was wharfinger at Rockhampton,
Queensland, until he started a gold-mining oompany in
‘77. His father seeks information.
Walter R. Iloneyman left England in the Orient for
Adelaide four years ago, and was last heard of with the
Government survey two years since. His mother writes.
John Leonard, cabinet-maker, went to Australia in
April, 1883, and was last heard of in January. ’B7, his ad-
dress then being “ Post-office, Melbourne.” His father is
anxious to hear from him ; or from John Leonard and
Catherine Leonard, who went to New York in 1854, and
have not been heard from since 1855.
Mary Ann Marsh (maiden name, Capel) went to N Z in
the Douglas, In June, ’74. Her brother George inquires
John Rook went to Moreton Bay, and was last heard of
28 years ago in N.S.W. His parents await tidings
John Singleton left Wales (presumably Glamorganshire
about 39 years ago. In his last letter he stated that he
was serving in the Thunderer, then surveying the Fijis.
His sister Jane would be very glad of any news. The
missing man would be, if living, about 59 years old.
William Smith Stevenson sailed in the Empress for N.Z.
22 years ago. His mother would like to know his where-
abouts.
David Todd, of Leith, is inquired for by his mother,
who indirectly heard three years ago that he was carrying
on the business of a painter in Australia.
Sidney Troke left for Sydney in the John Elder two
years ago, and was last heard of with a Mrs. Perry. His
aged mother would like to hear of him.
Susannah Ward, in ’56, was living at Patriok-street,
Hobart. Her brother James wishes for news.
Prison—An oven into which society puts
newly-made crime to harden.
Wong Way, Chinese store-keeper, Cooma,
has assigned his estate for the benefit of his credi-
tors. It is not often a Chinese store keeper gce3
the wong way.
A gay old Turk named Hadzl Sulejman
Saba has just “ pegged out ” at the very respec-
table age of 132. He had seven wives, 60 sons,
and nine daughters, and has survived them all.
At the time he married his last wife he was 98,
and when she joined the majority he was still si
THE FATAL NUMBER.
“Amarlntha, in accepting me, you have nude me immeasurably happy.”
“I am glad to know it, Arthur You are nob in the least superstitious, are you?"
“No, darling. Why do you ask?”
“Because you are the thirteenth man to propose to me this summer.”
far under the influence of love’s young dream that
he wanted to marry again ; but the state of his
finances did not permit of any further participa-
tion in matrimonial joys. He lived longer than
most men, and apparently didn’t agree with Mona
Caird.
Some one advertises for “ Plain-Living
and High-Thinking in a Sydney private family. ”
Talk, of course, is cheap, and if he does not add,
“ terms low, ”we are sure he meant it. Sydney
Smith’s motto for the Edinburgh Review at once
suggests itself : “We cultivate literature on a
little oatmeal.”
The banquet given by Mr. G. R. Whiting
on Thursday, the 22nd inst., to celebrate the
opening of that new and splendidly appointed
hotel, the Grosvenor, on Church Hill, Sydney,
was a sparkling success, notwithstanding the some-
what indifferent character of the ora’ory, which
indifference chiefly arose from the fact that, in the
presence of so elegant a spread, nob'dy cared to
open his mouth unless to put something into it.
A noticeable feature of the proceedings was the
strongly Republican tone of the bulk c f the j oliti-
cal sentiments expressed.
Rev. Pastor Jefferis writes from the Con-
gregational Vestry, Pitt-street, Sydney, forward-
ing, on behalf of his deacons, an address of sym-
pathy with Alfred Bennett over the great fire,
and saying : “It is a great joy to me that the
proprietors of the other papers have shown such a
brotherly spirit. Mr. Joseph Thompson, one of
our deacons, recommended Mr. Chas. Fairfax, on
Sunday morning, to make the offer which the
Herald did make.” We are much relieved to
know that James Fairfax is printing the Evening
News under the advice of his religious instructors;
because, don’t you know, if we hadn’t been told
that, we might have thought it possible he had
taken the step without consulting the good Pastor
Jefferis. For of such are the kingdom of heaven
Four of the leading Melbourne banks, in
consequence of instructions received from London,
and in pursuance of a resolution passed at a meet-
ing of their respective local general managers,
shut down with a steel-trap snap last week on
some of the bosses of the land-boom. And now
people are going round showing ohe another in
dark corners little pieces of paper whereon are
written the names of such and such a land-shark
who will crack up next week for half a million,
and of So and-So who, when his meeting of
creditors comes round in a day or two, will have
six figures against his name, commencing with an
eight. The smash-up in Melbourne has not yet
even commenced.
The 34th number of the Picturesque
Atlas of Australasia has just been issu'd. Un-
like many books published in parts, the Atlas
shows no decadence as it approaches completion.
As a frontispiece is given an effective and power-
ful view of that somewhat hackneyed, though
none the less beautiful subject, Milford Sound,
from a drawing by F. B. Schell, an artist who. is
absolutely at his best, and revels in depicting
the grand and striking scenery of New Zealand.
Among other particularly artistic engravings may
be mentioned ‘‘ An Avalanche in the Southern
Alps,” Lake Pukaki, Mount Cook, and Hooker
Glacier, Mount Sefton and Hooker River, Port
Chalmers, and the Tasman Valley. The en-
gravers have fully supported the artists by the
high quality and great finish of their work, and
the matter and printing are quite up to the usual
standard, than which no greater compliment could
be paid to the Atlas.
A shopkeeper at Dubbo (N.S.W.) was
surprised a little the other day by the eccentric
conduct of a bleary sinner who wanted the lean of
a knife in order that he might cut his throat amid
her stock-in-trade, and die with a fiendish smile
on top of the counter. She screamed several times
and became hysterical, and then she remonstrated
with this stray sheep and implored him to re-
consider his rash resolve and not to end his
existence there, but to go outside and live. But
he only glared at her and replied that he want-, d
to perish, and she gave way to tears and
asked him if he believed in a material hell,
and called upon him to repent. He seimed
moved when she went on this way and in a broken
voice he promised that he would endeavour to
become a better man, and said he was goi ig away
to reform. It was afterwards discovered that he
had handed most of the contents of the sh p to
his pal outside while the soft-hearted prepretrix
was weeping and giving herßelf up to prayer, and
the shopkeepers of Dubbo have since resol zed that
when another man comes along and d ? fires to
commit suicide on their premises they wilt sohdue
their emotion and send for the police.


Hotels.
Centennial Hotel,
scott and hunter streets,
Newoabtlb.
Wfow, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
0T > OoiD, AND SHOWBB-BATHS ON KAOH FLAT.
BILLIARDS 1 BILLIARDS!
Hotel is now opened, and admitted to b
Qr.i ’“e Beat Fitted and Famished Hotel In th<
oJ!®?- I® Is beautifuUy situated, being direotlj
e S l6 Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to th<.
Station, and convenient to all the Public.
r <nn gs, A porter meets all trains and steamers
and telegrams promptly attended to.
Walter Sidney, Proprietor.
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS’
LAND.
JNw the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
. ency Bi r a. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Aooommo
l? 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
%e j tion tos a Bplendid view can be obtained of
tin?* > mountain of gold, and within a few
**nd U ■ the company’s works. Passenge.
jf., mail ooaohes daily from Rockhampton and
railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro
t°r, of the firm of Monckton and 00.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
site Railway Tebminus, Spbnobb Stbbht.
V patronising the above hotel, whlcl
as lately had an addition of over 100 rooms
'oftv modern improvements, such as light,
toom an< * Wo M* ven tilated bedrooms, large public
4 t(j ’ aQa °kl Q £-room, hot and cold baths, showe
t e i_ baths passenger qlevator, electric belle
0De ’ °tber hotel requisites, not to b
lr '°der t rain s P rom Ptly attended to. Prloes ve:
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Special NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
(jjm Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ
In rA-LD BROS. Subscription (payable strlotl,
a ,T anoe ). Six Shillings and Sixpenoe pe
rtet, or One Pound per annum.
BIJLLETra will be on sale every Friday a
George Street, or from the runners i
Medical.
t>R. SPKBR’S
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
0*
e^ een Soorgre and Y°r-k Streets.) P.O. Box 920, Dr.
' B * regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
(Jjjj College, U.S. (for oonflrmation see New Zealand
. * January 21st. 1888: also New South Wales
a? ' e tte
i> 4ts April 17th, L8S8). The doctor has devot-d 14
Spj, to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, A N'T)
h os . DISEASES. Four of these .vera in the lead ng
JU L'J 9 of the United States, which enables him to trea'
v 1" wnr ’ nt ? excellent results. All applying t
'tr>! , reoe ' ve his honest opinion of their complaints
1 pojUj'^onting; no Meroury used. He will guarantee
~200. p? cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
rea3on fordoing so is this—when there is no
i 3913e > ftud nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
i 03 *Kln ° r< * s ’ a conglomeration of symptoms producing
gOVed °.. r ® ? ult, there is no reason why it cannot be re
t e viavT' ■ *he proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
Peru 63 , distinctly understood that he does not olain
cl V (o. rtn impossibilities, or to have miraculous powei
Si>; of Oi»u, on 'y 1° be a skilled and successful physioiai
. ®llAr y informed in his speciality—CHßONlC ant
DISEASES ok MEN and WOMEN. Peopl-
JJjJtftij |J *« * distance oan, by explaining their troubles in
*■ id .I "Sated at home. The course of treatment will
,_"y way interfere with their business. Examina
ce free to all. Charges moderate.
and
way
JdVioe free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
t ( j g ":> 42 Maygaret Street, between George and Yort
ijaju' Post Office Box, No. 920. Offioe hours
li » J: 2 I2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
*.«n. only.
f »tE
3 TRIPTIONB we to
be found In the “ LIGHT ANT*
Uttglor the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS D -
'■hit, fcod Kindred Diseases, &o. A oopy (f
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penn;
Address-
B. WARD & 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydn»r.
Eucalvpta Z 01
I
■
m
Victory Ointments
the
OF LIFE
rom Me
ALV^
Business Announcements.
SKATE ROLLERS.
rpURKEY. BOXWOOD, guaranteed the beat in the Ameri-
oan market, at the following low prices
1J in. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots .. $l6 per lot
2 in. „ „ 10,000 „ .. $l7 „
If in. „ „ 60,000 „ .. $l2 „
2 in. „ „ 50,000 „ .. $l4 „
Through rate to Australia about $1 600, per 1000 rollers,
Address—
JOHN T. LONE,
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
HATS.
HATS.
HATS.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
20 per cent. DISCOUNT for one month ONLY.
Our noted Guinea Silk Hats at 17b.
Our noted Half-guinea Felts at Bs. 6d.
Straws, 3s. 6d., 4s. 6d. and ss. 6d. at 2s. 9d., 3s,
6d. , and 4s. 6d.
Pullover Cork Helmets, 12s. 6d at 10s. 6d.
MORLEY’S BEST HOSIERY at cost price.
UMBRELLAS, &e., at co3t.
C. F. PRIDDY and Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES.
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Stailor,
md Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pits
itreet, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, HYGIENIC
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight h
gold. Send your full address, and we will send Pos
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Month
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R- T. SELBY
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
■\YMOCK’S GREAT EXHIBITION OF CRRISTMAS
mJ CARDS AND PRESENTATION BOOKS,
Largest and Cheapest Assortment in Australia!
100,000 Volumes of Books, and 70,000 Christmas Cards
SEND FOE DYMOCK’S MARVELLOUS PACKETS !
(58, BEST VALUE IN T£E WORLD! 'St
Grand Assortment for Is., Worth 10s.
The 2/6 is the Amazement of all, Worth 20s.
The 65., Unequelled for beauty and Assortment worth £5
Itymock (book arcade), 143 King St., Near Tram
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEO RGE STREET
SYDNEY
'“'PORTERS OFAIITHC
mE WEST SHAPES.
Ana *t ALBERT
THEORICINAL
%
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
issi&f
ISTHEBEST IN THE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
'.■rn
WAUC H’S
IVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
WErMm&k
as
MANUFACTURED BYJAMES CHAHNOH
Harbour S t Sydney
Sold by All Grocers and Storekeepers i
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such aa
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Doss of Ap-
Setite, Shortness of
ireath, Costireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
The first dose will giro relief
flag Sensations, Ac.
ta twenty minutes. a
Srerr sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
IMS of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
for females of all ages theee Pills are invaluable,
ae a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
wilTsoon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who hare tried them, and found the benefits which
art ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on tho most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with tho rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BKKOKAJ.i PILLS have the Largett Sait of «»y
Patent Mm>cine in the World.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronohial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Whteaing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivaUed. They
are thebest ever offered to the pnblic and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
uatunt of rest. Let any person give BEEOHAM’B
OOTJGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ume be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is.' ltd. and 2s. 9d. each.
Bold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
NJB.— Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branchss:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund, 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United Sbates of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
m
8
** ** \
OIKNOB CONQUERS DISEASE
The Succeßsful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASED
aooording to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobs MERCURY ob otheb Noxioub
Stomachic Contaminations.
Or. T. C. WRIGHT,
M.B„ Oh. M., &0.,
. EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered b
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the onl
legally qualified praotitioner advertising In Australia wb
Holds the Diploma of Physioian and Surgeon, h*
established the
“ ri«t*rtan IPlrogresslve Medical Institute, *
SB, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ns
vous Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fite, Spinal Complaints, Nervoui
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humon
Eruptions, Premature Deoay, Inoapaoity for Stud
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affei
dons, Geuito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid ooi
lltlons of the system '. natters not what yot
troubles may be, call or v>, He co Dr. Wright, and get b‘
sonest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, b
#lll tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he wi
not undertake a oase unless he Is oonfldent of effeotlng
rare. It will oost you nothing for ooneultation, so satlsi
yours that the Dr. understands your oase.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distanc
K. 8.—1 wish It distinctly understood that I do not olali
la perform lmpoeeibilitlee, or to have miraoulouß powe
I pyim only to be a skilled and auooeeßlul Physiol*
thoroughly Informed In my speciality.
. Note Address—
HOKESSm VESICAL IVSTIIUTI
68, Flindbbb Street W., Melbourne.
V Wo connection vrith any other Medical Institute in
JLuttralia Box 168, G.P.O.
FOR SALE — Two Grand Water Frontages
, Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers Applj
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stott.
FIRS') QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS Co Che
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBP lON
LONDON.
By Special Appointment).
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston ft 00.
Commercial Chamber*, Bond-Street. Sydney.
Robert butcher * co.
hare REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
892 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
IT RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOODMILLjS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
§. STEPHENSON
DAS OR SALE—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS CASKB. VATS
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUN' I1EONS;
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUCKET 3, fcO.
COOPERAGE,
JBT KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market Street*
V*4i •»«»!
V,
kouucl* ttTWSSiia
Je'iixi7 did thin j
i -*d will ic It on either bald
•t*c i :>r *>aff /or*
&eav* Mouetack* In from 2 tt>
i week* and never fail* 20 f 00(;
young men or .ready war full
«a riU, having untd 1U 3 pkli Vs l*lury, aaMly applied, nertok
> rjhtt. Pock'll, Is 4d «vS ? /or Ss. 64., »o»e paid , sotsS wultx.
«•<*. fros /»ow < 44»-Hhr».i»B »<m jlniv Soli Agon to,
r» g f o , «i j» a "» _
itro** * rT fc**
WA.LDBR, Tent, TarpauUr, Oilskin Maker
«0 PITT STRRBT.
Marquees on Hire.
umbri :llas
RE-COVE R£o.
s
toot Kcoiraiw?
•fid
O
Htrt Jtrat Umbrella
eorered, and Ji
Parasfil* re-lined and i
to Hew, *,5
ST. SULLIVAr^
541 George Streep
Brickfield Hill. betM*
lj»en>ool and Bathont
Parasol* made to mettdt mff
to roe*. Repairs neatly e
"FOB FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Piotubh and Moduli no
• Stobb, 899 George-Btreet (opposite Royal
Hotel), 1b acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest In the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretohed and mounted. Re gilding
eqnal to new. Mounts eat with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
vr rk a tpeolalitr. Inspection invited.
Life preservation!
BY
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN.
Specialist,
10 Loksdabb Btbbbx East, Mhibobbsi,
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating Influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
Information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Ooa*
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price p<" " Ml Bs. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had oi an booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A'Beokett Street West, Melbourne.


Bistclr Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
FOB
B, CATTLE & DIOS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J, Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Eedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co, S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W, H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street*, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Bedfern.
PRICE ... 3s. 6d» Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
ffOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
I*l There is not a country in the ciivlised world where
the healing virtues of theße grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneiicient action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in.every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-, st., London. £?tf Pur-
chasers should look to the Cabel on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is hot 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
IMPORTER OP
«SoG y
Mf WINES, SPIRITS, BBEBS SaO,
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’r, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and; 21 years old.)
The Choicest artS, Oldest Scotch Whtekies fin wood) K fmpm'ted and Bottled by P.R.V.
■ The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. SS' All Brands of Colonial Wines,
The leading brands of Bottled Am and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales H0te1,778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and. 784 George Street, Sydney.
MT SEND FOR A PRICE LIST, m
mmutl 'LADIES' IHIUUST idv and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET Opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
—-{ : y
Produce Stores, - - Oipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE VAND LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
LONDON
PORPOISE HIDE 800
Are Reduced from 9de* *°
*49 PITT ST., STDNET (Near fatt« N * ,PM
•it*'
TjMi H
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice a* ™
any other leather*
THEY ARE NOTED Alii OVER *•
BIRMINGHAM and LIVER? 00 '
LONDON FASHIONS
AND , .if
?resh Goods Every EorW^
MASON BROTHER
(limited,) T
263 TO 269 KEJN I °
SYDWeV. gAIS
Have always in Si ,”i v j lo le9fl le
to the Trade and
, _ Buyers om?)
IRONMONGERY
wg'SZ
WINES, BEERS
bulk^S^'
Agents for g(#
j. SORIN and
Cognac.
J. T. GAJ
Schnapps c
'S'Vig
■Williarrr B-u-llard., 342 G-eorgre Street, SsrdLrr©^'
BOOKS,
FANS, EASELS,
BALL P ROC RAM MEf
STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MfSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE,
BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIAS-
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED.
PRINTING OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
HAPSBURG PIANOS
INSPECT THE SWEET
AT THE
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
X CS HH
X
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
ECHUOA ...
BEECHW ORTH
HAMILTON
W A RRN AMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street,
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores*
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s*
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street. 4l
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
oHB
HI6HLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS M PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE
Or. F- PICKLES SOFTS, Carriage
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA..
City Repository: - - B, 7,8, « LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Mannfactary: - 32, 34, 3B BRUNSWICK STREET,
ufi
MELBO
fit*bO y
ifl
«M°‘
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY #
NEW TABLE—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS '
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, arm the Event of Survival, I UL
IN TONTINE SURPLUS itST Branches in all the Colontks and in the United Kingdom. ;
A. MARSHALL
Engineebs, Coppebshiths, Bbass and Bell FoondbbS.
|LLA
Finishbbs, Plumbebs, Gasfittebs, Ship & Genebal Smiths, Abt & MeudbV-
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels*
Verity's Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prioea-~H- uu
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of ' *
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydfan >
BON ACCOttD WOKKS, 9 Macauarie Place. Sydney, and StanriM** 1 0
&
“ N ervous F ebility.” A Free Medical Book.
Herr BASF USSEN, the C< lebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Wi 1 'end (post fr< ) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self Core for Nervous Deiuxity and
DisKiriss. It gives ; mil advice to ail k>nd of sufferers. Address -
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
