

%
LOOm OTJT 1 POE
BULLETIN’S” AOTI-CHIMIAI
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
Slio'wiag' TT7‘lb.37 -
:R MUST CHANGE
IS SPOTS
T° ensure supply, distant agents will please mail their orders at once.
empire hotel,
corner or
nter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
JS/eJ Family Hotel la constructed on the most modern principles.
fir*f ** bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Beat of Attendance,
A tta ° oneld ewti°n, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
0 ® oDaeil ts perfect, Bathrooms on eaoh floor. Letters and telegrams
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
A
skin,
Oh'iV’ “ill smooth and delicate neck., face, hands and arms can bwit. he obtained
tlcin r.»V, n ? greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed
* v **mot possibly hare any good effect on it., and by asine
J^OU,
JCalgdor
healing and ref reshine Drenaration lor the lace. hands and arms «t »B
(hi “'named”’ •P'™*. discolorations, chiimains, eczema, etc., relieves mmnuia,™,
eyea, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully .
* theS ft «e frn£ tflr “haring will find it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin,
•host lead or mineral ingredient*, can be used with impunity on the
•V
deiw**7/P m <>r mul
lady or child,
RANDS’
AKnO» OUr <lr f * ir "h»ired people.
ODOWTO whiten*
ts. 6d. and Bs. 6d. per bottle; Dottle* of half the oraal
I6w\‘p“?'-■ACASSAB OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
■j jo Martov
Agents —Elliott Bros., and B. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
and
V
uw< MHw»l liondciii *
XV iI,ON
<%,!
with reliable la
Street,
)«
SZ>s~,\
f'
Of:
MA«U*ACTu*tR»
$, IMAOUTERS er
hatslaps!
st
3VDNEV 1
/;
THE
“ PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“ PLUM
RAZOR.”
FOR private use Is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee It for two (2) years. PRICK, 10s. 6d. each. Send P.O. Order*
CX3-A-XO- etn-d. -A-XTXXEXT,
POTOSI HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
680 GKORGE-STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BEAD
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“Australian Land Mationaliser. M
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
TOKCInT i.
IT is toe authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
object Is to firmly Inaugurate In Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform—to do
for these oolonles what the Standard Is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation tihan any oountry paper In the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales*
It Is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and Induce others to do so. Everybody interested In this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM* ’
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SBFD FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
LEA&PERRIK'S
AU
r\
At) 6
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which art calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrim
have to request that Purchasers see that the Lak*K on every bettlo
bears their Signature thus —
******
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA ond PERRINS' Sauce, and see /fame am Wrapper, Lmbel,3ot»e and
Stopper. Wholesale and far Expart bp the Proprietors,
Blackwell, London, <5rV„ Crc.; and by Grocers and (hitmen throughout the World, _
Wholesale .Areata i i.Montkfiohk , Joskph Sc Co., t David Cohen lb Co., Sydney,
The Bulletin


THE LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS* ORGANS* MUSIC*
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FROM G.P.O.
ALL the best makers kept in stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The Iron-framed
“ VICTOR Piano excels all others, and is fully equal in every respect to Pianos sold at £52 and £55.
Call and Inspect, or send for Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LKCHLEITER Pianos, and
ESTEY and Co.'B American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TIME PAYMENTS, FROM 20a. A MONTH.
[ard man Bros.
Cci*f*SrK*p
Tkcacu
/UTfl/ffAS.
2
r rsro
tess i
UEpa
COIiTiRWiORS
y©ra3
\9rftcc i factory, rcwtowk H
AJMHAS ’IS 13*013 HOOWff
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE CORNER of PITT and
MARKET STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated bt Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
Tbs Hln, Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F, Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Rsq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
account* opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advanoes
■pan all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
d>n and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed
at oall, 8 per cent.; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, S per
sent. ; 18 months, 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'N AMAKA, Secrerary.
■
THOS, BUUK LAND,
HIKING. MACHINE:BY, AND GENERAL SQIBI
Charters To wans.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln)
n Laagland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne Tit
E. D. MILES,
MIMING AND COMMISSION AOHKB3,
Minins Bzohansb.
OHASXBRB TOWERS, QUEBNBLAND.
ILAS
cocked.
STUD'S ECONOMY
and
■aye roar Umbrella frame* *•■
•overed andvonr
W araiol* re-lined and mad* *«■*
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN S
Ml George Street,
BHekfield HUI, between
Liverpool and Bathnrat Street*
raraiol* made to match to*
tame* Bepalr* neatly amenta*
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWKRB
" GiTJElEllsrS]li^.lSriD.
Millar, carter, and oo„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office. —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agenoy.—T, H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branohes.and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher a oo
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and out 01
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Hotel,
BiIIBBAINHI.
OpposlteJParliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMODATION FOR 90.
A Walter Meets Every Steamer.
Letters and telegrams please address pro-
prietor.
8. M. COLLINS.
Hish-olasb Dentistry j at Reform Prices
ABTIFICIALTEETH
rOMPLETESFT
• **~l
MARSHALL BRO:
DENTISTS
133 ELIZABETH ST
Vaatii peirtaniy extracted under nitrone oxide
CM* dolly et 11,
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets?
SOUTH BRISBANK.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and beat ventilated
house In the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
W ALDER. Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
196 Pltt-street.
A <- --i.;
Qalaaim mm*
A«(T
Marquees on Hire.
THE ORtCINAL
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O ft
HIGHEST DECREE OF MEKII
ISTHEBEST IN THE.WORLO.Ij
NONE OTHER EOT
WAUC H S
EECE!VtO THE !NT£RN AT lON Al
PRIIEMCDH
MABUfAcnifi£D BYjAMEsQIAffIKa
Uamcub fiMroear
a StiUtyAD Ctpctf^WSfanaw*
cfjSydnej/.
J£NQLW tAYrfrALU£*MOI//VrAWl*
KiKT.WmrSI SS*mnMHt^Tag4Ci > .a
JAY'S PBINOB OF WALE S HOTEL,
ST. HILDA.
THIS first- olass Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors and residents, beingin a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Hilda Railway Station. Private suites
of apartments. Ladies’drawing-room. Gentlemen's
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
U N
MAOKAY.
SURPASSED accommodation for oommer-
olal travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a speolal study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
TOBACCO
3£s
DIXSON & SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
S YD N B Y.
DIXSON ft SONS' CONQUBBOK
not only manufactures M
t*
0
THAN ANY OTHER, but
BULK OF THE AMERICAN L
nto New South Wales, and h« noe
of their brands. M jjji
CONQUEROR, greater sale than *#
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR R odG
gold leaf. , jjjs
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY,
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S NO 1
10,000 per hour, the ch° lcooC
ffnll
»nd Parlß rice tissue. olgar^
retailers at 3d per packet.
COLLIN S-PLAGE, COLLIN a- STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLU
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfeot, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Lot 6
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
COLES, Pb° p *
MRS. M.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
'GTMPIE, QUEENSLAND, ft* - y-
Tbr'Grntral Hotil. Private Sitt Room.
Rendeevoua for all parties engaged In mining
business.
a. Q. BAILKS, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE. QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-GLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and families. Private sitting
roomß without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards lAloock's). First-class ohm*,
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands. Van meets every steamer,
HANRan, Jusrm.. Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS.
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS
Head Office: Townsville, s. Queensland,
IMPORTANT NOTICB,
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowny AND
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan do take charge of
the SUNBURST HCTKL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision
Sunburst .Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the oelebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival,
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THB
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda
tlon of Thirty Horses, and a good PaDDOOK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Coaohn
DAILY non AND TO ROOKHAMFXON,
Non CBN Addbms—
MIOHAIL BOLTON
(Of the Firm cf Lowry ft Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL.
MOUNT MDKOA'.V
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
f Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, aid condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner to the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agen ,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent-street.
M ;o in#*:im»M e n t s
£ In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
_____ > «'■' _ Iron Tomb Railings.
l. Designs'and Estimates forwarded on request.
* J. CIJNMNdBAM,
m iMargaeet-strbet, Wynyabd-hquare, Sydney.
'UTB can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
TT ting Saloon as the beet In Brisbane*
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, George-street, b!x doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Paxkzb, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 800 pages*
bound In doth, and contains over 100 prescript
tlons. Price, post paid, Bs. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should Bend at once for this
valuable work. Address : Doctor W. K.
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33- HITXGKEIISrEI’e
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the most oentral and well appointed ,of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Norn xbse Addkbss—
-08 ELIZABETH’STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
pM
MOULTON’S
pain
r-t v AfcL
pAIN'
rig
The best known remedy fr? JwpJ
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE g(%jf
NKUKAIiUiA, „rro«S PX;#
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BUB 1 * pl^Jj
and taken Internally P^ o rf!. B® 8
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS,
internal aches and pains.
COl'#’
Price, £>/
sol®
I. I. MOULTON,
MEL
BO
EOT# 1,
OUNT MORGAN uu'" (
y g ——— w
Under the distinguished
tf Ci
oellenoy Bir A. Mnsgrave, A-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-B
it** 8 *
the balconies a splendid view ®
the celebrated moantain of go* *Of»V 4
minutes' walk of the comP"-' g,
V *4
and mail coaches daily fro®?
Kibra railway-stations. *• _ a pi
pritor, of the firm of Mp»ok w
M.
R ' 1
Private Inquiry, Missing * j,
Business Agency p#
R
42 ROYAL ARCAPS’ ®
Absconders and wife deserter® V
xjl ÜBUuuuers auu wne ,
confidential inquiiies institutea
divorce, libel, fraud, and ineendi»™L J
fession and others. Copies
tad*. HE
marriage, or death, obtained in
Rents and debts collected Frona
in the Detective Force of New
Jlffi
New Zealand, and established
crlnho ho ia in a nnoltlnn t.n fiODOU and . in P*
globe, ne is in a position to cuu"»- # pu, to
expedition and strictest BKCf ~V,'trUß tea
promptly attend to all business en
pgN'HOVIAI
LAND
ANO
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
STOCK 5
LARGE
WITHAU (.r
newestdes ,cN
HIGHEST FlN |Sfl
AT
LOWEST
C0Sl !
»*'
i
l
ESTIMATED FOB
111, Pin STREET.
W\. s
10
CBEC pres o —
■ Imtt be found
LIFE," for the Speedy Car®
bility and Kindred DißeaS ®aie'
book will be sen* Free,
Stamps. Address — n
8. WARD %£*>*s*
'Sfa
fitzkoy
■AST STRBBT,
m FIRST-CLASS
Plunge and
Private Sitting Boom.
flood Stabling. KT ®"
JAfl.


The Bulletin
Vol 9-No.A 24
SATURDAY, MARCH a 7, 1888.
Prise. (ML
Dishing' His Enemies.
YE RANANAMAN: ‘I'M BLESSED IF SAM HASN’T [?] IN EVERYTHING EXCRFT [?] THE P[?]INTER."


"THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper,
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... •••
Half-yearly 0 l2s ‘ od '
Quarterly ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have iHE
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to reside its of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to i/nterfere.
THE BULLETIN.
LOOK OUT FOR
“ THE BULLETIN’S " ANTI-CHINAMAN.
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please
mail their orders at once.
PRICE-SIXPENCE.
SATURDAY, MARCH 17, 1888.
The Workman's Wife and White Slavery.
A little while since Governor Carington ex-
pressed Ids heart-felt sympathy with the wealthy
proprietors of an incinerated Sydney bedding-
factory, thereby affording them a splendid adver-
tisement at a small cost. His action was calculated
only to make fashionable a system of trade which
seems to be the ultimate goal of all commerce'.
Wealth continues to aggregate in the hands of
the few, and the machinery by which wealth is
created seems to have a like tendency to accumu-
late beneath the control of a few gigantic pro-
prietaries. The process might be indefinitely
prolonged. His Excellency’s movement in the
matter can only be considered in the light of an
effort to accelerate it. Women are quick at
taking a hint. Shopping at the emporium has
now been sanctified by the vice-regal tear of
sympathy, and the probability is that Mrs. and Miss
Australia will not allow the example to he lost
on them.
* * *
These are the days of alleged progress. There
is on every hand an effort being made to increase
the cumbrous machinery of life. There is on the
part of man a continual endeavour to get away as
far as possible from the primal and philosophical
conditions of exist ence. Among other of the so-
called advances of progress, the political, social,
and physical ensuffvagement of woman takes a
very important, if not the leading, place. We
have from time to time pointed out the incon-
gruities and anomalies of the unproven hypo-
thesis of the assumed equality of the sexes. We
have endeavoured to show that if women really
desired the full rights and privileges of mascu-
linity, they were—and are still-doing their
utmost to render the granting of such rights and
privileges an impossibility. In this matter women
are their own worst enemies. Limited as is their
power at present, they are continually using it to
make more arduous and inconvenient the lot of
man. Uglesome as is the wretched drudgery
which now crushes down into the dirt the over-
driven labourer, women are ever on the alert,
stretching what little inventiveness they are in
possession of, not to ameliorate, not to brighten,
not to cheer the prospects of life to their hus-
bands, their sons, their sweethearts, but to render
them more hideous and to make the outlook for
humanity more repressively dull and hopeless.
Too true is it that woman’s enfranchisement is
synonymous with man’s enslavement. While
leagues are being formed, petitions are being cir-
culated for signature against the loathsome and
leprous Chinese, the wives of the men who
are struggling hardest to remove this saffron
curse, the mothers of the children whose future
may be embittered by Tartar competition, are too
often the women who encourage the plague-smitten
celestial by buying his vegetables, or who invest in
little artieles of frivolous female finery from the
Chinese hawker or the Lascar pedlar. Of course,
it would be illogical to blame the women alone.
They probably err from thoughtlessness and igno-
•anee. But, their husbands hove no such excuse,
and no'mdSr slib’uid allow Ills wife to endanger, by
her actions,- tike best interests of his order. The
workman who leagues against the Chinamen, and
yet in his own house eats the Chinese-grown beans
and cabbages; is far more to blame than his wife,
who has not been educated to hold such openly-
expressed anti-Tartar views.
* • *
In another direction, women are equa’ly the
fees of those who are compelled by law to labour
for and to keep them. It is the workman’s wife
who does her shopping at the universal em-
poriums and by her support, contributes to the
existence of the vast establishments with their hun-
dreds of underpaid hands. It is the workman s
wife also who renders it impossible for the small
tradesman to make a living. Dozens of men who
would otherwise be keeping little shops of their
own are compelled to slave for a subsisteace-wage
in establishments which count their profits loy
thousands per annum, and which, in some in-
stances, have no regard for t he rights of their miser-
able dependents. Ths customers of the lower
class universal emporiums are not so much the
gilded sybarites of society. They are the wives of
workmen who combine in trades-unions to keep
up wages; who declare for eight hours’ work ;
who agitate for the expulsion of the Chinaman.
The workman’s wife is a late shopper. Her hus-
band labours only while ths sun is in the heavens.
He endeavours to obtain Parliamentary repre-
sentation, in order to maks eight hours labour
the law of the land. But his wife patronises the
system which compels white wage-slaves to stand
behind a counter; to smirk and to smile in
wearied agony until 9 o’clock p.m. on every
ordinary night, and on Saturday night until
11 o’clock p.m.; said white wage-slave
being afterwards engaged until 12.30 or 1
o’clock on Sunday morning in making things pre-
sentable to begin the next week’s round of drud-
gery. His Sunday is a day not of rest hut
of exhaustion, and the Pharisees who tole-
rate this system and who assist in its main-
tenance yet refuse to an honest man the right
to buy a glass of wine and a sandwich, or a
cigar, or some fruit for his wife on the Sabbath.
The Capitalist is allowed to go on scraping his
unholy profit off the bones of his wretched servi-
tors on the morning of the day sacred to Cant,
yet a Christian in an alleged Christian country is
not allowed to moisten his lips with anything un-
sanctified by the Church’s blessing.
* • *
The workman is after all his own enemy in re-
gard to early-closing. He either allows liis wife
to cheaply surrender the advantages he has fought
for and secured by permitting her to indulge in
the paltry bliss of lato shopping, or ho does it
himself in order that he may have his Saturday
afternoon playing cricket or solacing his soul with
the red-oclire joys of a game at Saturday soldiers.
He shuns the more decent places qf business
which are open only during- the hours of daylight ,
and spends liis spare cash in order to swell the
profits of the conscienceless commercial leech. Of
the distilled agony and long-wrung-out woe of the
slaves for whom he should feel some brotherly
love he cares nothing. His own convenience is
served and, true to his selfish instincts, his
charity, like his independence, ends at home. As
the workman, who—by extraordinary good luck,
great powers of endurance, and perhaps, in some
few instances, a little out-of the-way ability—has
managed to emancipate himself fcom .he intoler-
able conditions of labour, and has soured a posi-
tion as a capitalist, often makes the hardest task-
master ; so also the workman still engaged in
a frantic endeavour to keep his lower lip above
the tide-waters of competition pushes down every
other swimmer who does not happen to wear the
cap-badge of his own particular boat-club. Per-
haps there is no more pathetic instance of man’s
inhumanity toman than that furnished by the work-
man in his treatment of his brother workman.
But by fighting against his fellow he is weakening
his own cause. He is delivering over to Capital
a fresh gyve with which to bind himself. He is
assisting in strengthening the hands of the
enslaver of his children.
* * *
In Melbourne during the early struggles of the
workmen to enforce the Shops and Factories Act
—which by tremendous exertion had, in the in-
terest of Labour, been made law—it was found
necessary to summon certain contumacious shop-
keepers who persisted in pandering to the love of
the workman’s wife for late shopping. But
an easy way was found by which the law could
be practically evaded. The offenders were tried
before brother shopkeepers—fence-taking and
parcel-tying Js.P.—who imposed merely nominal
fines, and by their remarks rather encouraged than
otherwise the law-breake s in tlieir course of
defiance to the Act. This leminds ns of a para-
graph, written by the late Marcus Clarke, in
The Bulletin, to the effect that when
(in the days of the appointment of notorious
usurers to the Justiceship of the Peace) some poor
devil of a Civil servant disputed a pawnbroker’s
account for a pledged waistcoat the Bench re-
sembled Pelican Island in the breeding season by
reason of the multitude of beaks hanging over the
railing. In fact, a law can always be evaded very
adroitly when its administration depends upon
that legal anomaly and judicial merman—the J.P.
The system which tolerates an amateur judge
cannot be adequately dealt with in any language
whose basis is “ Webster unabridged.” The
justice of peace is usually ignoran: of all law, and
ids ignorance is only paralleled by his callous-
bided and supernal cheek. He is as unscrupulous
as any other quack, and if “ honoured ” with the
magic letters J.P. for merely political reasons—as
he almost invariably is—the jobbery and corrup
tion of the transaction are quite as odious as the
circumstances surrounding the manufacture of a
politically-appointed Supreme Court Judge. But
it is the workman who sends to Parliament the
men who make the laws and the men who appoint
the amateur justices to administer them. If he
allows his servant to tie about him the bonds of
slavery he has himself to blame for it. He has
allowed the State to barter away his birthright
the land—and now he is anxious to lose the only
thing he has —the bare name of a free man.
# # *
Chattel slavery was, perhaps, abolished too soon.
It would possibly have been better for humanity
had it been retained until the accomplishment of
the nationalization of all land. In a lecture at
Sydney the other night, it was shown clearly,
enough that the present system of “ white-wage
sla very ” is a thousand-fold worse than the old and
sentimentally mucli-abused system of chattel
slavery. It is worse, indeed! Worse for the
worker, but better —so much better for the
remorseless capitalist . In days of old the slave-
owner [of necessity was forced to feed well
his property. When his slave sickened, he
naturally enough desired his speedy cure ; and
should his chattel die, as die sometimes he would,
he was at least compelled to restore his body to
the earth like the body of any “ free ” man. The
white-wage slave of to-day, however, meets with
no such LucuLLUS-like indulgence. He receives
frorn his profit-sweating enip'ldye'r o'riiy & ifliser-
able dole—a bare* subsistence-wage'. By the
operation of Fred' Competition and the increased
facilities afforded by machinery, the dole is each
day growing more 1 diminutive, and the workman’s
fare is correlatively becoming coarser and coarser,
and less and less nutritious. _ln some parts of
France, during the period immediately preceding
the French Revolution, the wretched chattels of
the grand seigneurs were obliged to boil sea-weed
for their daily food*. When the* White wage-slave is
sick his employer is in no way concerned. When the
poor tottering wreck of once vigorous manhood is
no longer useful as a sweating-machine for profit,
when he is too* old to work, the alms-house or the
benevolent asylum- receives him. When Nature
at last claims her child, and he dies, he is buried
at the expense of the parish, and the master, the
capitalist who has reaped all the benefits of his
existence; who* has appropriated all the fruits of
his earnings, is enabled thus to shirk all his re-
sponsibility outside the mere working hours—and
even then his responsibility is of the meagrest de-
scription—and to throw it, not upon society, but
upon the shoulders of the workman himself ; and
the workman’s wife, in constant gratitude, re-
ligiously continues to assist in piling-up profit for
Capital, and in enslaving, by her action, the class
to which she herself belongs. Chattel slavery was
perhaps abolished to give the ‘ ‘ boss ” wider scope
for his operations in the appropriation of the re-
sults of labour. Slavery hangs on the agrarian
question. The possession of land confers owner-
ship of the man who tills it, but who doosn t own
it. It confers also possession on the part of Capi-
tal of the artisan who owns no land, hut who is
forced—because he is human and must eat—to
sell his liberty to the man who controls the source
whence food is to he obtained. Yes, workmen
and their wives continue to bolster-up, and to
assist in the further appropriation of their birth-
right, the people who are their natural enemies.
• *
Henry George in his “ Social Problems” puts
the whole thing in a nutshell. He says :
Chattel slavery is, in fact, merely the rade and primitive
mode of property in man. It only grows up where popula-
tion is sparse; it never, save by virtue of spatial circum-
stances, continues where the pressure of population gives
land a high va’ue, far in that case the ownership of land
gives all the power that comes from the ownership of men,
in more convenient form. . . What would the New
England manufacturer gain by the enslavement of his
operatives ! The competition with each other of so-called
freemen, who are denied all right to the soil of what i i
called their country, brings him labour oheaper and more
conveniently than would chattel slavery. . . To the
English proprietor, the ownership of slaves would be only a
burden and a less, when he can get labourers for lesi than it
would cost to maintain them as slaves, and when they have
become ill or infirm can turn them on the parish. . . Un-
able to employ themselves, the nominally free labourers are
forced, by their competition with each other, to pay as rent
all their earnings above a bare living, or to sell their labour
for wages which give but a bare living, and as land-owners
the ex-slave holders are enabled, as before, to appropriate to
themselves the labour, or the produce of the labour, of then-
former chattels, having in the value which this power of
appropriating the proceeds of labour gives to the ownership
of land, a capitalised value equivalent, or more than equiva-
lent, to the value of their Blaves. They no longer have to
drive slaves to work; want and the fear of want do that
more effectually than the lash. They no longer have the
trouble of looking out for their employment, or hiriug out
their labour, or the expense of keeping them when they can-
not work. That is thrown upon the slaves. The tri burn that
they still wring from labour seems like voluntary payment,
lu fact, they take it as their honest share of the reward of
production—sinoe they furnish the land! and they find so-
called political economists, to siy nothing of so-called
preaohers of Christianity, to tell them it is so.
In regard to women—although they cannot be
charged with the onus of the iniquities of the
land system which has grown up during ages of
political sleepiness and cultivated ignorance of
the lower classes—they can be charged with
assisting by want of -thought, by sel-
fishness and a disregard of the best in-
terests of the race, in the perpetuation of
a system the existence of which altogether mili-
tates against and subverts the dearest interests
of Labour. Anti-Chinese leagues, trades-unions,
the maintenance of the principles of the eight
hours’ and rate-of-wage organisations, early-
plosing associations, even Shops and Factories
Bills, and other Acts passed into law for the bene-
fit of Labour, entirely fail to effect aught for
those who endeavour to assist iq their propaganda
and enforcement, but whose wives surrender
without thought or feeling the principles so often
nobly fought for, and far too often dearly won.
And the whole weight of this indictment recoils
upon the head of the workman. He assumes the
responsibility of looking after his own household,
but it is very frequently the weakest spot in his
line of defence against capital. Women have an
easy tolerance of everything they are accustomed
to, and the workman's wife is not a political
economist, but the man who allows either wife or
daughter to help in pulling down what he is en-
deavouring to build up, deserves neither pity nor
assistance: if his cause ultimately fails and he
succumbs to his ever-watchful enemy, Capital, he
has only himself to thank for it.
Political Chaos.
The curse of personal politics rests heavily on
New South Wales. Neither of the parties which
make up the bulk of the Assembly has any de-
fined platform apart from the questions of Free-
trade and Protection, and there is no organisation
which is capable of laying down a comprehensive
policy for the guidance of electors. The platfo in
of the Freetraders is simply whatever Parkes
wants, and that of the Protectionists is mainly
what Parkes doesn’t want. Apart from Parkes,
the distinction between the two great sections
rest 3 on the fiscal question only, and until Parkes,
after much hesitation, declared for Freetrade, just
previous to the last general election, the Assembly
had no semblance of party lines whatever. On
such questions as land-nationalisation, payment
of members. Chinese immigration, and the like,
the two sides of the House are inextricably
mixed. No one apparently sees anything beyond
the exigencies of the hour, and it is impossible to
forecast the fate of any proposed reform, because
it generally happens that Parkes himself, being
committed to nothing, and being compelled to
form his shifting opinions a 3 he goes along, is
actuated by the bile of the moment, and forces his
servile followers to vote against their inclinations
under the threat of abandoning his position,
and leaving the Freetrade party in the lurch,
while his opponents, being also held together by
the tariff question only, are equally unreliable on
all other matters. The Freetrade party are forced
to father the Dead-House, and to say nothing
nasty about the land-resumption jobs and the
atrocious muddlement of the Public Works Bill,
and a hundred other things, simply because they
were returned upon no well-defined political plat-
form and because the party ticket was left to be
constructed by Parkes after he had assumed
power, and the result is a constant system, of orß~
man ffOVel’h'mte'nt, which 1 is hardly one remove
from despotism. But the present one-man Ad-
ministration* is- already in its second- childhood,
and, in view of its closely - appi-o'aching fall, it is
time for the Democratic party in New South
Wales to prepare a definite programme to place
before the country.
* * *
Protection to native industry, land nationalisa-
tion, the utter expulsion of the infected Mon-
golian, payment of Parliamentary representatives,
the Upper House question, financial economy, the
freedom and unity of Australia', and the abolition
of sectarian strifes in their relation to politics are
principles. which, if put forward by a well-
organised Democratic party, would, ai the next
election, go far to sweep away the dynasty of
fossils who have so long snarled over the bones
of the national carcase for their own
profit and the country's loss: But if New-
South Wales is ever to be governed by a'
national party instead of by an aggregation of
atoms held together only by the bonds of personal
interest, the party must be formed on a broad
basis, and its candidates must be prepared to
accept the programme in every detail. At the
late contest at Newtown, the badly-organised
Nationalists lost the day because, as usual, they
had no representative who was prepared to advo-
cate a thoroughly national policy in lieu of
Foreign Trade bribery and'jobbery, and tha re-
presentative was not forthcoming because the
policy was never formulated. Mr. Smith appeared
as an advocate of Protection, but he indignantly
declined to support the principle of payment of
members, and the working classes, the true
Democracy of the country, were well aware that
they would never be fairly represented so long as
it was necessary either to elect rich capitalists to
guard the interests of the landless multitude, or
else to entrust them to the care of adventurers
who live by political corruption, as many New
South Wales legislators without any visible means
of support now do. Further, the feeble Protec-
tionist candidate allowed himself to ba led away
into sectarian discussions by the loud-mouthed
bigotry of his opponents, and by openly re-
pudiating the support of all Catholics and
Freethinkers, he went out cf his way to
insult a large section of the community and
subordinated the interests of the country to
the miserable jealousy of dogmatists and the
slavery of creeds. No doubt he allowed himself
to be goaded into this declaration by the oft-
repeated lie that Protection and Romanism go
hand-in-hand, but the Australian Democratic
party has no more to do with the strife of warring
sects than it has with the campaigns of the
Moslems against the men who worship log-images
in the wilds of Central Africa, Australia recog-
nises no State Church, and if the Church is to he
used as a weapon to coerce the State the time will
ultimately oome when the Chinese will be pro-
tected in order that Joss may be a factor in politics,
and when Mumbo-Jumbo may held the balance
in an Assembly of alleged Christian's who, hwe
gone back upon their God.
* * *
Until an Australian Democratic party comes
into existenoe it is hopeless to look for any ap-
preciable improvement in political life, Men of
character shrink from entering the chao3 which
passes muster as a Legislature, where parties and
principles, or rather want of principle, are mixed
up in inextricable confusion, and where reform is
impossible because men are returned—pot
to support definite measures, but to yqta
for the ignorant fetich of the hour and fqr thp
single item of policy which serves him for a rally-
ing cry. The masses ceaselessly demand reform,
but in a land where nobody owns anything which
can, even by the utmost stretch of courtesy, be
termed a policy, they are merely groping in the
dark, and reaching after something which is as
impalpable as air. Everywhere the tendency is
towards disintegration, and the Protectionist
party, which, in its opposition to the monopoly of
the huge importing firms of Sydney, and its advo-
cacy of the claims of the Australian workman as
against the cheap English, German, or Chinese
artisan, possesses the only claim to represent the
Democratic element of the community, is permit-
ting itself to be gradually split asunder by miser-
able treachery. Mr. John Norton, long known
as a staunch adherent of the Protectionist
policy, now holds a billet on the staff of the
Freetrade Evening News, and is permitted by
that journal to spend his time in de-
livering eloquent lectures throughout the
country, in which he advocates Protection. hut
does his best to scatter the seeds Of disunion
among the Protectionist party, and spreads abroad
the hollow lie, first started by the News and by
the Sydney D.T., that Projection is run in the in-
terests of the brewers of Sydney. This thin pre-
tence was originally invented because the National
party resisted the action of a sham Freetrade
Government in heaping taxation on the loca
brewing industry in order to lighten the harden
on their English competitors, and in making
colonial beer dear that imported English beer
might be cheap, and when a deluded Protec-
tionist is hired to spread the empty falsehood
abroad, the Frcstrade journal which employs him
emphasises its transparent treachery by publish
ing his utterances under such headings as “ Pro-
tectionist Rout,” “ Division in the Camp," and
the like. Further, Mr. Norton endeavours to lay
on the Protectionists of New South Wale 3 the
burden of Imperialism, and charges them with
supporting the policy which is fathered by the
Freetrade lea der—the Parkes who sold himself
politically for a title, and who staked his billet on
the Naval Defence grovel, and which finds its
most eloquent supporter in the Freetrade Daliley ;
the same policy which, in Victoria, is run by
Freetrade Gillies, who sinks his principles that
he may lead a Protectionist Government; and
which, in Queensland, is propped up by Griffith,


Who was always a Freetrader until a fe w months
ago; when he found it necessary to turn his coat
in the hope of dishing the life-long Protectionist,
M'llwraitii. He even endeavours to represent
the party which ho pretends to support as
the hereditary friends of the Chinese, and
ignores the fact that the real friends of the
Chinese are those who keep the ports of New
South Wales open to receive the cheap goods
produced by a country where wages average less
than live shillings a week ; and having thus
loaded upon those he calls his friends all the sins
of their antagonists, Mr. Norton has ably ful-
filled his mission as the Protectionist representa-
tive of the meanest and most unscrupulous Free-
trade journal in New South Wales. The policy
which he advocates is practically the same as that
which is sketched in this article, and which has
been sketched out by The Bulletin a hundred
times before, but his Democratic programme
merely serves as an instrument for creating dis-
union in the only party which possesses even the
elements of a Democratic policy. And the man-
ner of Mr. Norton’s utterances makes them trebly
suspicious. He was invited as a pretended Pro-
tectionist to address an anti-Chinese meeting held
by the Protectionist party, and he availed himself
of the opportunity to make a fierce attack on his own
cause, while the only allusion ho made to the sub-
ject under discussion was embodied in the menda-
cious assertion that his friends wete the natuial
allies of the yellow aliens whose very existence in
the country is based on the policy of Freetrade.
The Freetrade papers thereupon gleefully
hailed him as a traitor and a deserter,
and published his utterances as a direct
blow to the National cause. The Evening News,
which has hitherto dismissed Protectionist meetings
with a paragraph of coarse and ignorant jibes,
devoted several columns to the utterances of its
hired servant, and almost entirely suppressed the
speeches of the leaders of Protection ; the Sydney
D.T. followed suit; and as both papers published
t wice as much as Mr. Norton really said, and
published it long before it could have reached
them in the ordinary course, the only possible
conclusion is that these journals were supplied by
Mr, Norton himself with advance copies of his
oration. The Protectionist who hankers so much
after advertisements in the Freetrade Press is a
dubious ally, and John Norton’s debut as the
apostle of chaos has brought his reputation for
political sincerity very low.
Soein[?] and the Sydney Press.
The Sydney daily Press—and this will apply in a
greater or less degree to the entire daily Press of
Australasia —is one of the mosttime• serving insti-
tutions of the kind in the world. One section of
it is noted for its blind advocacy of the crusty old
traditions of Imperialism and property and the
crass obstinacy of its Tory mulishness. A second
division is characterised only by a circulation,
built up by pandering to the pruriency of a
hysterical clientele, while a third is famed for the
golden opportunism with which it has tacked
about on various political courses. The last-
mentioned miscalls itself Democratic, which ad-
jective it endeavours to make good by hastening
to sanctify, with its oily smile of approval,
reforms already attained, and in advoca-
ting also far-away reforms which are not
likely to b 8 accomplished within the experi-
ence of at least three generations. All
these pipera, however, meet on common ground,
agreed with wondrous unanimity to block
any immediate or radical remedy intended
to ameliorate the present condition of humanity.
Precipitation and undue haste are its aggregate
bugbear. Its ignorance, to quote the famous
phrase of the hedge-schoolmaster, is indeed pro-
found in its superficiality. The bogie of its dreams
is Socialism. While mumbling with infinite gusto
the names of great scientists, such as Srencer,
Haeckel, or Darwin, it utterly refuse 1 to receive
Iheir teachings, and, in fact, it ha 3 the vaguest
ideas as to whither those teachings tend.
• »
The Sydney D.T., the organ of Opportunism, and
the advocate of the ages-distant reform, under
the head of “Topics of the Day,” made, in a
recent issue, a fierce onslaught upon the logical
outcome of the present Democratic movement,
the mouthpiece of which in Australia it professes
to be. It puts up a plaintive wail because
The Chicago branoh of that magnificent body, the Knights
of Labour, has been completely brought under the control
of the Socialists. )
What, after all, is Socialism but a workman s
“ ism.” It certainly is a cause that looks not to
Capital for its advancement. As Aveling puts
it ; -
It would be foolish and more on our part to deny that the
nhrase " Worki og-elats Question m America is to us in the
main synonymous with the phrase “ Socialism in America.
We believe that Socialism explains why there is, and always
must be, a “ working-class question' until that question is
solved by the historic, evolutionary, and revolutionary
method that Socialism alone points out as inevitable.
* * *
Let the of Australia note well that
i is an alleged Democratic organ that utters
weird “warnings” anent the alarm felt at the
growth of Labour-Socialism by the wealthy and
well-fed, but “ genuine yes, genuine well-
wishers ” of the ungrateful proletarian. You
miserable fry,” says the D.T., in effect, why are
you not contented to work hard and be always
underpaid ? We are happy and healthy, why
aren’t you ? We will do the cultured-existence
business for you : what do you want with
amelioration of your lot l Go and toil hard and
keep us in fat dividends, and be thankfal that we
allow you the privilege of working
In Amerioa, as in Australia, there is always a class of dis-
contented, unscrupulous, self-seeking men, without the man-
liness to work, and without the capacity to make an honest
living, who seek to prey upon the grievances of the working-
Cl&BS. .
This is true! There are, also, which the D.T.
neglects to mention, always noble, high-minded,
and fearless men who will count their own lives
as nothing when weighed in the balance against
the total good of the race. It is undoubtedly a fact
that the Chicago Anarchists who were recently
hanged were men of this type. It is true that they
were certainly hot "headed and and
strove to bring about a change in the existing
order of things by means which we should con-
demn even were they employed by so disinterested
a Democratic organ as the Sydney D.T. The
Chicago Anarchists sought to make men better by
advocating the use of reactionary and indivi-
dualistic—not Socialistic —methods, therefore they
are the worst foes of progress. Nevertheless, the
fact remains that there was not one among them
who was not a capable and intelligent workman,
whom not want, but sympathy, had driven into
the ranks of drastic reform ; and sympathy of the
noblest sort at that; sympathy with struggling,
down-trodden and enslaved humanity. They all
earned more than sufficient for the support of
themselves and their families, and Louts Lingo,
the man who blew his own head off rather than
allow the hangman to fix the noose around his
neck, was noted for being a clever and particularly
prosperous workman.
* * *
The D.T. goes on to say :
They become stump orators, agitators, election-mongers,
democrats (?), Socialists, or anything that gives them an
excuse tor fulminating against society and the country s in-
stitutions, and enables them to live comfortably upon the
support of men who are deluded into working to keep these
sjhemera talking.
In the above catalogue we notice the word “demo-
crats.” The 1).T., in moments of advertised self-
interest, claims to be the organ of ‘ democrats
in Australia. Is this, in its own language, “to
afford it an excuse for fulminating against society
and the country's institutions,” to enable it to
“ live comfortably upon the support of men who
are deluded into working” to keep this “ schemer”
talking 1 It is certainly true that persons of the
class enumerated so minutely by the D.T. are
brought to the front, but in the words of Chief
Justice Cockburn
Demagogues are almost always effects —rarely causes.
They are the froth that rises and bubbles on the surface
when the mass of the people ferments.
The “frothy demagogue" never outlingers the
occasion of his existence. He dies with the wave
that engulphs the stately ship of society—but so
does the ship! When the blatant soi disant
organ of the Australian Democracy goes on to the
statement that follows, it brings down upon its
head a whole avalanche of counter-statement, and
retributive fact. It says :
The frothy demagogue cannot get among them—the
workmen —until he becomes a worker, and that virtually
means excluding him for life.
The appalling ignorance of such a remark is im-
mediately apparent when we remember that in
the ranks of avowed Socialists we have had such
splendid names as Proudhon, Louis Blanc,
Michelet, Armand Barbes, Saint Simon,
Fourier, Blanqui, Eugene Sue, and Victor
Hugo, in France; Karl Marx, Friedrich
Engels, Lassalle, and Jacob?, in Germany ;
Herzen and Bakunin, in Russia; Mazzini and
Garibaldi, in Italy; Robert Owen, in Eng-
land ; and Nathaniel Hawthorne, in America;
that amongst the present Socialist leaders are
such men as Hyndman, a man of proparty who
gave his fortune to the cvuse; William Mor-
ris, the poet and a cultivated man of letters ;
Burns, the Christian Communist, and many
Others in England ;■ Elisee Reclus—acknow-
ledged to be the greatest geographer of this
century—in France ; Damala Niewexhuys, in
Holland; C/ksar de Paepe, in Belgium; Prince
Krapotkine and Stepniak, and many other
noted chiefs in Russia; and Hasenclever,
Bebel, and Liebkneciit, in Germany. These
were and are all avowed Socialists. There are
dozens of others, who, although they did not cast
in their lot with Socialism, taught it in their lives,
their public and private utterances, their actions
and their writings. Of these Heine, Gogol. J.
S. Mill, Fretligrath, George Eliot, Lermon-
toff, Dostoieffsky, Tolstoi, Turgenieff,
and dozens of other names will he instantly sug
gested to the intelligent reader whose information
ii gained from sources other than the D.T. In
fact, literature is laden with Socialism. Down
the stream of time the heavy-freighted galleon
conies, rich with the thought of a Plato, a
Lycurgus, a Sir Thomas More, a Bacon, a
Campanella. Such writers as George Sand, or
Swinburne in his days of sanity, Byron,
Shelley ; nay, even Shakespeare and Goethe
and Dante, are tiue and genuine Socialists at
heart and in the inner core, and they live and
breathe in the minds of men as they do because
their works throb with love for human-kind, and
they speak with their wide-sounding voices to all
men and all times. What lives of Dr. Johnson
and the like fine old Tories, is not the narrow,
petty, bigoted spirit of their day and generation,
but the words written when they forgot that they
were partisans, and let slip great words of hope
which unconsciously proclaimed them men and
Socialists.
# * *
To return to the D.T. It concludes its intem-
perate and illogical tirade with an assertion
respecting Socialistic demagogues that —
Oocaßionally these men glide on their tongues into Parlia-
menty but whether they remain in or out of the Legis ature
they seem to make a comfortable living without taking their
coats off or hardening their hands.
We ask is this confined to men professing only
one set of political opinions ? Is this hot true of
men who have grown gray in the public service
and on the public pay, and who lift their voices
only when Labour is to be given a stone when it
asks for bread ? Has not there been an instance of
rank old Imperialistic Dodges maintaining power
and place without taking off coat or hardening
of hands ? Has no Premier made a profession of
politics whose vote was pledged in advance against
Labour ? Whose dearest friends were the Chinese
robbers of the workman’s loaf, and whose insol-
vency schedules were the despair and admiration
of hundreds of men who were compelled to work,
but who would like to fare sumptuously and wag
a head over lordly feasts, indifferent to the dis-
traints of a perennial bailiff? While the D.T.
continues to hold a brief for the discredited
Parkes, who lives in a particularly vulnerable
glass-house, it should be careful lest, whilst taking
a pot-shot at a Socialist, it peradventure hit a
Premier under the fifth rib, and wound him in his
political pericardium !
PLAIN ENGLISH.
University Women.
The Senate of the University of Cambridge has
declined to recommend that the degrees of the
University be conferred on women, and in the in-
terests of feminity we say a very good job, too! The
race is deteriorating fast enough in ail conscience.
The men are getting worse and worse. Physically,
men are going down, down, down. The white -
faced wretches that totter about cities with their
thin flanks and their flaccid muscles, their weary
washed-out, frail bodies, their bright, restless eyes,
their hot, feverish hands, and their over-strung
nervous organisations are bad enough. If it were
not that a few strong women are left to redeem
the race, God help the children! Of course, the
men who go to the universities do not hurt them-
selves. Most men go, in England at least, as a
mere matter of form, and the act is regarded as a
necessary one to men moving in a certain position
in life. A man can easily read up and struggle
through without a great amount of effort, and if
he doc 3 not get through there is very little harm
done. Again, few men go to the university, as a
matter of dire necessity, to pass examinat ions with
honours, and these few belong to a class whose
studies would make a big drain upon them in any
ease. With the average Englishman university
life is a simple social duty—a farce as
far as study is concerned —in which an
athletic young fellow with a moderate amount
of intelligence, reads a respectable number of
hours per diem, and alternates his studies with
cricket and rowing. With woman, however, all
this is different. Very few individuals of the
other sex are built on a sufficiently generous sea e
to relieve mental strain by physical exertion
of a style vigorous enough to maintain the
beautiful equilibrium between mind-culture and
body-culture, and fewer women still go through
the curriculum as a mere matter of filling up a
few years of their life. The women who go
to the university do so in the face of a
natural prejudice, and this, at the very outset,
throws them out of harmony with their environ-
ment. They are made to feel that their conduct
is eccentric, hence they lead a life of continual
and nervous unhealthy protest against a popular
and academical criticism. The emol ional side of
woman's nature being the most developed, a,
course of severe study under the ban of masculine
and feminine disapproval disorganises it still
more. She cannot escape, in vigorous physical
exercise, from the operation of excessive cerebra-
tion. Her nerves, naturally move sensitive .than
man’s, are quickly demoralised. In short,
if women are to cultivate the sciences they
must remain celibates for life. If they intend to
fulfil their natural functions as wives and mothers
they must stay as they are and be healthy
animals.
The Kniglil of Labour ami the Knapp.
The gentle and much advertised E. J. H. Knapp,
Great Mokanna of New South Wales Social Purity
andginger-pop, unburdens his soul to a cold and un-
sympathetic world of tipple in a Sydney daily.
He demands that the control of the liquor-traffic
be given to the people. Whenever Mr. Knapp
talks about “the people' 1 he means the Local
Optionists the men who never drink, never
Bmoke, don't marry, and whose generation of cant
is kept stagnating along in a much-suffering uni-
verse by proselytism, for they rarely leave behind
them children virile enough to perpetuate their
aqueous appellations. In his letter, Mr. Knapp in
bewildering fashion mixes up cause and effect
until it is almost impossible to disentangle them.
He demands that the drink question be settled —
on the side of prohibition -before the relat’ons
between capital and labour are taken into
account, not recognising that the anomolous
position of labour and the unequal distribution of
wealth are considerable factors in the drink ques-
tion. Drinking is the result, not the cause, of
misery. Abolish poverty and the unnatural con-
ditions of artificial society, and you abolish drink.
Men drink because they are compelled to raise t he
tone of life ; to alternate from its leaden dullaess ;
its oppressive commonplace, if only by plunging
into the fool’s paradise of the drinker. Delirium
is better than the sordid and uneventful existence
of most of us, although we can quits understand
the Knapp clan we don’t speak personally—
requiring no such stimulus. Then this exas-
perating evangelist of tea-leaves goe3 on to say
that the American Knights of Labour had taken
a stand not only against ths drink-traffic, but
against tobacco-smoking. [Mr. Knapp omits to
mention that the Knights of Labour, according to
ths Sydney Freetrade papers, have also declared
in favour of ths Chicago Anarchists ; in the line,
therefore, of their tendency to abolish every-
thing, tiny may yet abolish Mr. Knapp.]
Next they will oppose an impregnable front to
umbrellas manifestoes against tbe use
of soap. The Knight of Labour, who pursues
the course indicated by the Knapp, is a roaring
lunatic. Lister, O, Knight of Labour ! If you
want to keep up your wages, you must beep up
the number of your ab3olute neoessil ies. Wages
have an inevitable tendency, as Mr. Freetrade
Knapp will tell you, to dim nisi) until they reach
the bare subsistence point. Do not cut your bare
subsistence po'nt too fine. If you can work with-
out using beer tr tobacco, look out! The " boss
will hear of it and your " screw ” will suffer a re-
duction equi valent to the price of the beer and
tobacco which it is found you can do without.
The countries where labour is cheapest are those
in which, on account of climatic conditions and
the small cost of a fruit diet, the labourer has the
fewest wants. When, O, Knight of labour,
you can do without food, tr clothes, or sleep -
when you no longer desire to marry and bring up
a family, and when your wants are about as easily
compassed as thoee of the jellj-flsb, you will be
forced to work for nothing—for the jelly-fish
must have a strip of sandy beach to pulse upon in
the sunlight, and your owner has the land you
must live upon, no matter how small jour wants
may be. The evil in the world fluctuates very
little. In a state of nature men killed each other
wi r h a club, and now they do it with joint-stock
swindlc3 and bad grog and colicky gingerbecr. If
men didn't drink had grog they would possibly do
something worse —die of lemonadic flatulence,
mayhap. A teetotaller has been hanged before to-
day. See what ultimately happened to Mr.
T a well, the pious Sydney ile of 50 years ago, who,
upon being "converted,” esten* a ion sly emptied all
his stock of grog into the Beautiful Harbour !
If strong men who are not teetotallers dis
continued drinking they would probably take to
some villainous drog and stupify ttemselves with
chloral, or morphine, or tea. Thera have been tea-
drunkards also, Mr. Knapp, and they don’t loak
half so inviting as specimens of humanity as the
good old seasoned boozer with a whole life’s
history of t ipple written on his purple proboscis.
It is all a question of kind, not of degree, and
the world is not yet governed absolutely by hydro-
cephalus. /'
{
The Emperor William of Germany.
This is the period of governmental grief, when
departments don their suits of sable; officials
creep about darkened corridors dr jpping a tear
corresponding in size and density with the rank of
the departed, and bureaucracy sits down to weep
with a due regard for the demands commercial
relations make upon sympathy and with ah the
decent decorum of international woe. This lip-
wailing and documentary regret is a tribute t o
the armed strength of Germany and a mark of
respect to Germany’s real ruler. Bismarck, the
Teuton Warwick and kiDg-maker of this century.
To the old man, who lies as low as any of his foes
or his subjects shot down in his various wars of
dynastic ambition, little thought is gi'en. Ue is
a name only, save to the poor creatures who, in
the abyss of their own self-abasement, worship
everything which occupies a regal pedestal. To
such it would matter little if the Emperor Wil-
liam of Germany paralleled the late royal maniac
who ruled Bavaria. They worship Regality, not
Manhood, William, the late ruler of the Teutonic
Confederacy, was not a hero. He had not the
excuse of a Napoleon in h’s wars of ambition; he
was not a genius. He was simply a salf-sa'isfied,
religious soldier of the pronouncedly bourgeois
type, part Methodist, part rake. Had he not
been born to the purple he would have made a
very good corporal or drill-sergeant. He was a
hearty feeder, a strict) disciplinarian both of his
army and liis family when he was not drill-
ing soldiers he was ogling the angels of the
ballet. His life was passed on the battle-
field, on the parade-ground, in the dining-hall, and •
in the green-room. He was a glorious example
of the faith as it is in Constantine. ‘‘ By this
sign we conquer !” was the motto of his common-
place life, and the cross of Christ was carried in
the van of his army as the gonfanon of Im-
perialism. From Gravelotte’s crimson field he
wrote, with snuffling hypocrisy, to his wife
Augusta putting up thanksgiving to the Goo of
Battles for a victory, while the corpses of 39,000
lead scented the air around him. He had none of
the semi-divine madness of the man born with a
genius for slaughter. His was the case-hardened
callousness of the butcher, who steps into the
shambles with indifference and quits it when he
is too tired to slay longer, and who goes homo to
tea with a laugh on his lips, and thanks the good
Father ,tliat he was able to do so much work in
one day. William was not a hero. He was
simply a facile instrument of a far-reaching brain;
lie was the embodiment of a policy—the unifica-
tion of Germany ; His master found in the unques-
tioning drill-sergeant, gross feeder and deep
drinker, religious fanatic of the clieese-and-bacon
typo and ballet-girl gallant- the machine for liis,
purpose. With anyone else the establishment of
Prussia at the head of the Teutonic Confederacy
might have been impossible, but as Napoleon
had his Lucien, his Talleyrand, or Fouciie, so
had Bismarck His William, Emperor of Ger-
many, and through liis man of straw he
ruled and intrigued and warred and con-'
quered. The Kaiser was really but Otto’s
figure-head field-marshal, and as such we let
him pas? to the proud Imperial throne reseived for
him in Heaven. He was a good exponent of the
creature called Christianity, the negation of the
faith as it is in the Saviour it ever denies ; but he
was as much a blind and unconsc’ous instrument
in the hands of superior intelligence as the knife
with which the butcher kills liis victim. If the
old faith which stit red men’s heart? and guided
their actions wee a reality and not an outworn
myth, then might we commiserate the gray-
haired man of blood, llie creature of the man of
iron, on liis way to his judgment. But we know
it is not so. Murders in the name of Christ are
rewarded with jewelled crowns and celestial dis-
tinctions. Yet into our memory, spite of the
logic, comes a stanza of J. R. Lowell’s on the
peace at the conclusion of the American Civil
War, and, somehow, it seems to fit the aged
Teuton slaughterer tr ore aptly than the Southern
President :
My eyes cloud up for rain ; my mouth
Will take to twitchin' roun' the corners :
I pity mothers, tu, down South,
For all they sot among the soomers
I d sooner take my chance to stan'
At Jedgment where your meanest slare is,
Than at God’s bar hoi' up a han‘
Ez drippin’ red ez your'n, Jeff Davis !
The Grog Service.
James Service, of Melbourne, is well-known in
the character of a Foreign-trader and in other
roles which need not here be particularised, but it
is quite a novel'y to nee him figuring in public as
a moralist. Perhaps the religious example of
Service pere, who, years ago, used to preach to
benighted lumpers and abandoned seamen on the
Melbourne wharves, has at last had some good
effect upon the ex-Premier of Victoria. Or can
it be that association with the great and good
Graham Berry in the last Administration has
effected a moral revolution in the character of
Mr. Service ? The other day a man applied to
the Melbourne Licensing Court for a license
for a public-house which he proposed to
build at Balaclava, a fashionable suburb of
the Southern capital. Now, mark you,
James Service and Co., of Collios-strcet West,
sell oceans of grog wholesale every year, but it's
no concern of the senior partner in the firm what
the ultimate destination of liis “Long John”
and Reel Jamaica may be, or how much the
shanties to which it is consigned may promote in-
temperance, so long /as pubs, keep a respectful
dis<ance from Service Hall at Balaclava, and the
cabmen whom he employs when he doesn’t want
to trot out his own barouche and pa s r, are not
taught to b 9 tipplers. So James appeared before
the Licensing Court and objected to the license
for this propoml house at Balaclava being granted
on the grounds that “the house was net re-
quired, and if the license were granted it
would have the effect of making the drivers
of cabs on the rank opposite the proposed site
intemperate and a nuisance to persons living
in the neighbourhood." Virtuous and considerate
Service ! For 31 years past, James Serv ice lias
been selliDg grog for consumption on Colliagwood
Flat, for example, where slioals of cabmen not
only stand on the rank, but live and drink and
swear, and sometimes beat their wives and punch
their neighbours' heads, but Service, in liis far-
off suburban retreat among the mansions of Bala-
clava; wot not of these things, and quaffed his
goed sack and sparkling Moselle free from the din
of the vulgar bar and the loathsome language of
inebriated cabmen. Trade in grog is ail. well
enough, and Service doesn’t mind piling up
a colossal fortune by it —but, then, the
ultimate vulgar effects of it on cab-drivers
and the rest of the lower orders must
not be brought right home to liis door
at Balaclava. Let the' “ jaws of death ’’ and the
“ mouth of Hell ’ in the shape of low public-
houses he opened wherever you choose, and
James will be willing to pour liquor into them in
abundance —terms, cash monthly—bub pray keep
far aloof from Mr. Service and his pet jarvies.
This paternal anxiety of James for the “ cab-
drivers on the rank ” who might be tempted some-
times to take too many long beers and use bad
language towards each other is truly touching.
When Service was a candidate for the represen-
tation of Colliogwocd in the Assembly some time
since. and was defeated, he didn't exhibit
enormous interest in . the moral welfare of the
hundreds of cabbies who hang out there, nor did
he show any strong disposition to crush the strug-
gling publican. But wliat’s tolerable or even
blameless on the banks of Reilly's Drain may be
hideous and immoral down by the sea at F.lstem-
wdek and Balaclava. This latest development
of the Serviccan policy is only one more ex-
emplification of the doctrine of Self, which is so
eminently characteristic of Foreign-traders where-
ever they are to be found in Australia. Mr. Ser-
vice doesn’t believe in Freetrade in liquor if it's
likely to affect himself unpleasantly, but goBs in
with all his soul for Protection when the thing to
be protected is James Service, Esq., his personal
peace and domestic happiness rnd the morality of
his o-'-n part ! cular cabmen.


- l’ress and Premier.
Mr. Watkin, the Protectionist; candidate for
Central Cumberland, 1b a big shareholder in the
alleged freetraie Sydney Daily Telegraph ;
Mr. Nobbs, his freetrade opponent, is not a share-
holder in the paper pledged to support the fiscal
policy Mr. Nobbs claims to represent. Hence the
D.T., with magnifijent self denial and self-si uni-
fication, supports in the following editorial the
candidature of its shareholder at tho expense of
its alleged principles, and the man who comes
forward to advocate the oause of the D.T. is
slighted and damned with faint political praise of
a peculiarly sardonic kind : -
Protection apart, Mr. Watkin is just the type of man
wh.ch would always do honour to the Parliament of a pro-
gressive dear cratic community. He has a reputation to
pledge, and >me which no political gain would compensate
him for if forfeited. In the hands of men like this repre-
sentative functions are always safe from abuse
Active, energetic, straight-going, clean-lifed citizenship will
tall, and it would be a sorry day for the community if-such
were not the case Mr. N< bbi is a man of keen
wit, strong, practical mind and s mnd reputation He has
been prominently identified with the industrial progress of
Central Cumberland, and the number of times to at he has
been elected Mayor of one of its most important munici-
palities w iihout opposition sho * s tftat in so far as he has
been publicly tried he has rot been found wanting. Both
Freetrade and Protection, then fore, will be worthily repre-
sented, and a fair and honest conti st may be loosed for at
the poll.
Now, the foregoing is plain enough. It is ranning
with the hare and hunting with the hounds with
a vengeance. Parkes, however, who is not a
shareholder in the D T., considered this praise of
a fiscal foe “singularly inopportune,” and hastened
to Liverpool to mitigate its presumably fa al
effect. He took Abigail with him, and the latter
statesman persuaded the fruitgrowers of Camber-
land that the golden spheres over a pawnbroker's
sign were the fruit of the orange gleaming in the
“ sunlight of this free bright land of ours.”
Parkes, with characteristic eloquence, said of
Mr. Watkin, the Protectionist candidate, tte
shareholder and protege of the Sydney D.T. :
If you want to add to the ignorance of the Assembly—if
you want to add to the untruthfulness of the Assembly— if you
want to add to the obstruction in the Assembly—if you want
to add to the blackguardism in the Assembly—then elect Mr.
S urns’opponent. (Cheers.) lam sorry to have to speak of
Mr. Watkin, because I cannot but speak of him in thssj
terms.
Parkes here puts a distinot issue before the
in connection with this elc cticn : Elect
Nobbs and abolish legislative blackguardism. The
D.T. said that in Mr. Watkins hands “repre-
sentative functions” would be “ always safe from
abuse.” But mark! Immediately after making
this wholesale indictment against Mr. Watkin,
Sir Henry charged him with telling “a down-
right lie.” The D.T.’s “only” statesman once
told us what honour did not consist in doing. His
speech at Liverpool must be read as showing
what “ blackguardism” does not consist in saying.
He called Mr. Watkin “a stagnant man—a
toadstool —a man who casts an unhealthy
shadow ; ” he described opponents to his policy as
“native dog 3 and opossums” and “inferior
animals; ” sensible questions he referred to as
“idiotic yells he told an interject:r to “shut
up ” and to “ go out and bark with the dogs out-
side ; ” protectionists were individuals of a sort
that wanted “washing cr hanging”—“soap for
the dirty men and ropa for the villainous men ”
an interlocutor was a “wretched person” who
hid “ his ugly face," and ha would rather have
“Chinamen than soma of the people at the other
end of the room.” This is not b’ackguardism ; it
Is only a reproduction of Ah Haynes, from whom
Parkes has taken another leaf or two. The
D.T.’s “ only" statesman is afraid to go to the
country on the Freetrade versus Protection iesue,
and he does nob care to state that the true issue
upon which he will always fight is the Orange
versus Green; so, copying the Escaped Ah
Mudgee, he told the Liverpool electors that Free-
trade and Protection were of very small matter in
this contest:
The real questions at stake in th<s contest are to a large
extent concealed from you, and I don't hesitate to say that
under this specious cry cf protection there are persons at
work who, if they could, certainly would destroy your public
instruction system.
This is a direct attempt to resurrect the Kiama
Ghost and excite sectarian in'olerance. Then he
tried to bribe the Liverpool electors. Nobbs was
instrumental in effecting the transference of the
polling booth from Liverpool to Granville. Parkrs
guaranteed to reverse this if they supported the
man who had wrought them this injury. The
S.M. Herald gave of this precious address
only about a quarter of a column. The Herald
Is nob anxious to further discredit Parkes with
the country just yet. The D. T., however, desirous
to crush Parkes in order to secure the election of
its shareholder—Mr. Watkin, the Protectionist
candidate —publishes the speech in extenso, devo
ting three columns to the woik of mining
Parkes’ reputation thronghonb the colony. After
the publication of Parkes’ Central Cumberland
Billingsgatoration it is safe to prophesy—nothing.
Tlie loyal Silver Wedding.
Of all debasing conceptions about the most debas-
ing possible is the presentation of gifts to that un-
happy woman the world kaows as the Princess
of W ales on her silver-wedding with the debauchee
she still calls husband. Her married life has
been one long tale of misery, the results of deeds
Of brazen-faced neglect which have rendered her
position one of intolerable isolation, and the— let u s
be charitable —moral effect of which has so
wrecked her constitution as to mab e her the pity
of all England and the world. Of a sweet and
gentle disposition, but without a single gift of
personal power or intellect, the Princess of V ale 3
has suffered for 25 years neglect and insult such
as it is not the lot of any ordinary woman of
spirit to put up with for a week. From the days
Of Lady Mordaunt up to those of the contem-
porary ballet-girls of the Empire Theatre and the
brutal wife-beating cocktail-bruiser, John Sul-
livan, the Prince of Wales has admittedly been
the associate of men and women whose coarse-
grained immorality was as notorious as it
was abominable. The Princess is prematurely
old, bald and deaf and halting, and it is just
an unspeakable mockery to celebrate that
wretched act, which has stricken her body and
soul, wrecked her health and her happiness, and
left her the pitiful shadow of that proud and
lovely girl whose advent in England was cele-
brated by the deathless verse of a deathless poet.
But the truth is, that the whole thing is a filthy
political move, intended to try once mrre to palm
off on the public the idea of a “ domestic ” Heir-
Apparent, and Lady Holland’s pestering letters
to Lady Carington, Lady Loch, Lady Mus-
grave, etc., are merely quack Imperialistic adver-
tisements. But, surely, when even the “stupid
papers” all over Australia, from Holy Adelaide to
Broiling Brisbane, are forced to unite in pointing
out the political aim of the wretch d device,
and apologising for the snobbery which makes it
possible—surely even Australian Vice-royalty
might throw up the sponge, tt is too thin.
HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
“ On the 4fch of January, 1810,’' says Holt
In his memoirs, “ tbree ships hove in sight of
Sydney—the Dromedary, the Indostan, and a store-
ship—which came op to the Cove with every pre-
para* ion to g.ve a broadside it they saw occasion."
This meant that Governor Macquarie had arrived,
with a detachment of the 73rd Regiment. The
new Governor expected that he and his battalion
would have to fight their way, and put down the
insurrection by fores; but this was merely an idle
fancy of Major-General Lachlan Macquarie’s in-
nocent mind. The men he had to deal with were
not given to fighting. They knew how to skulk
out of their difficulty by a much easier process
than that.
On the morning of the sixffi, the troops
began to disembark, atd the New South 'Weirs
Corps was promptly on hand, in a burst of effasive
loyalty, to salute the King’s representative. The
new comers marched on to the parade ground, and
there the new Judge-Advocate, Etlis Beat, rsad
the comi ies'.on t f Macquarie and his lieutenant,
Richard ChatlesO Connell, iattepresencecf all the
soldierj and inhabitants. The 73rd then marched
out of the tiwn, and pitched their tents a mile
and-a-half away irom the barrack?, placingpicquets
and taking all the precautions usual to a brigade
on active strvica in the A dd. All this was vie wed
with the g eatesi) peiturb»t on by those who had
been active in the rebellion. Mazarthur and
Johnstone had taken every care to get away out
of danger long before, and were by this tints in
England slandering Bligb.
ti a Vf
But the officers and men of the Corps saw
a 7 once that their day was over. They waited
anxiously for Macquarie to break his ominous
silence, and put them out tf their misery of doub\
When it became known that the Corps was ordered
home, the first sensation was one of profound
relief. This was succeeded by the reflection that
all their merry days at Botany Bay, with its petty
tjrann c 3 and its privileged ruffianism and its
rum, were over, and that return to England
meant going back to the old life once more.
“The old soldiers, with their wives and children,
were full of lamentations that evening ; for they
saw that they must quit New South Wales, and
they knew th&t it was a very different thing living
there and living in England.’’ However, Mac-
quarie allowed some few of the old soldiers to
enlist ia the 73rd. The rest were packed off
in the first ships. It will be remembered that
the Coip i was originally recruited from the prisons
and the hulks, and, as Hunter wrote, by enristlng
“ characters who had been disgraceful to every
other regiment in his Majesty’s service." Men
who had been condemned to service in India were
reprieved, as we before mentioned, to enlist in the
New South Wales Corps. Their career at Botany
Bay did not improve them, apparently, for very
soon after their return to England they found
their native level. They were constituted a
“condemned regiment ’ themselves, drammed
out of the country, and sent to spend the rest of
their existence where the hopeless outcasts of the
military service were sent- to India. They were
good enough to conduct a philanthropic experi-
ment and found a new British colony, but they
were not good enough to remain a regiment in the
regular service at home.
a * *
And so the New South Walts Corps
rattles its drums in the town of Sydney for the
last time, and drops finally out of our story. In
the whole range of human history it wou’d be
hard to select even one solitary passage that, for
dismal misery, cruelty, and squalor, could even
distantly compare with what has been here
touched with a very hesitating peD. To draw the
curtain entirely aside from the squalid abomina-
tions of these first years of our story would be to
disclose a picture of horror that is simply revolt-
ing and nothing more. Enough has been said for
the purpose of the present writer, and more than
enough to show what the beginnings of the colony
really were. The subject is not an attractive one.
Not one word would have been said to revive this
squalid and debasing memory were it not that the
shameful brand of this “ rum-seilitig Corps" still
reddens and burns in the flesh of Young Australia.
* * *
With the exit of the “ rum-selling corps ”
a new volume in the history of Botany Bay may
be said to open. But it is sal to have to add that
enough of the old leaves remained to make the
new book, in many respects, a copy of the old. Had
the Corps continued its rule, it is quite impossible
to imagine what the colony would have eventually
become. But when it was drafted home, its
officers, the responsible agents of all the rascality,
resigned almost in a body, and remained behind.
This was their way cu 7 of the difficulties that sur-
rounded them. They had made large fortunes,
and founded large interests during the be*-day of
their power. So they deserted their followers
whom they had first robbed and then led into
danger ; turned their back cn the King’s colours,
and settled down in the colony to continue their
old practices as far as they might be allowed, to
become nominee legislators eventually and the
founders of onr firdt families. The strong rule of
the military Governors who, beginning with M »c-
-quarie, superseded the old naval Governors, did
not allow of the same excesses as the first 20 years
of our history presented. But the wealth and
influence of these black-leg officers, who deserted
their followers after leading them into danger,
made them powerful enough to recover from the
shoe* and perpetuate the spirit they introduced,
even down to our own days.
* * *
“ All the oppressors were smashed to-
gether,” says Holt, “ and it was amusing to hear
them abusing eaoh other and cursing the Gover-
n rs." And in another place we get this
“Anthony Fenn K*mp lost his commission ss
Judge-Advocate, and from being a magistrate and
a gre at officer in the colony, became nothing more
ihan a captain in the 102nd Regiment," by which
name the Corps was henceforth known. “ And
worse than this," goes on Holt, “his rotten
tobacco would no longer pay the soldiers, so that
misfortunes came upon him in various shapes.”
One of the first acts of Macquarie was to lower
the price of provisions from the false standard to
which the officers had raised it, and to have food
sold in the open market instead of in the hole-and
corner manner they had forced on the settlement.
“ This was of great servica to the poor," we are
told, “ and injured no one but those who could
bear it, and had too long eDj oyed an unfair profit.
Comfort and happiness now began to appear in
the countenances of all the inhabitants of
the colony. John Macarthur lost Lis vil-
lainous trade, but it had lasted lorg enough
to enable him to make a large fortune.”
But, tbeD, as we have before had occasion to
notice, John Macarthur was not a man likely to
waßte either his substance or his sympathy on
whnt ho oallcd tie “Idle, worthless poor."
Another of Macquarie’s earliest steps was
to declare null aid void all the acts of the officers’
Government during the time of their rule. Their
grants of land aid free pardons were revoked as
illegal, and the documents convening suoh grants
or pardons were called in. Bat Macquarie was a
man of marked tac*\. and it was his primary object
to see justice done, as far as possible, so that none
might suffer through the fault cf otherp. Having
vindicated his authority, therefore, by this act,
he afterwards confirmed most if not all of theee
grants and pardons. He had instructions to use
his discretion, in view of the two years that had
elapsed since the rebellion, so that its traces
might be effaced with the least possible friction,
This was fortunate for the individual?, but for the
colony and its future it was simply the worst
thing that could possibly have happened. Had
plroosr ard drasMc treasures been adopted firmly
and a£ once, and tne wi etches who had wrought
such tnrserj cn the colony been swept away root
and branch, and every trace of their squalid
presence scattered to the wind*, it would have
been incalculably better for the Australia of
to-day. Macquarie showed to these ruffians a
measure of mercy they lad never been known to
ehow to others. We ihall see, presently, how
they repaid him.
• * *
Meanwhile, it cannot be overlooked that
a very great reform had been effeoted in the con-
dition and prospects of the settlement by the very
first steps Macquarie took. The departure of the
Corps was an omen of good The drunken Judge-
Advocate who indirectly caused the rebellion, and
then took service under the officers who opposed
him, was drummed out of Botany Bay with them,
and another Judge-Advocate, who was not
drunken, appointed in his place. A chaplain was
also brought out by Macquarie, and the officer
who solemnised marriages for the settlement
found his occupation gone. A good many of the
harems were broken up, for Macquarie brought
his Wife with him, and her presence kept the
moral atmosphere In the neighbourhood of Go-
vernment House and th 9 official centres compara-
tively clean and pure. But it was many years
yet be'ore the “factory” at Parramatta discon-
tinued to supply wives to the settlers on approval,
to be returned and replaced if found unsuitable.
* • *
It was during the second year of Mac-
quarie’s government that the court-martial on
Colonel Johnston took place. It was held at the
Royal Hospital, Chelsea, and lasted thirteen days,
resulting in Colonel Johnston being found guilty
of the act cf mutiny, and cashiered It was
added, In a general order of the Commander in-
chief, “ that the court, in passing a eentencs so
inadequate to the enormity of the crime of which
the prisoner has been found guilty, have appa-
rently bsen actuated by a consideration of the
novel and extraordinary circumstances ” sur-
rounding the condition of the colony. The Prince
Regent, in “ admitting the principle under which
the court had allowed this consideration to act in
mitigation of the punishment which the act of
mutiny would otherwise have suggested,” said
that “no circumstances could be received in full
extenuation of an assumption of power, so sub-
versive of every principle of good order and dis-
cipline. as that under which Lieutenant-Colonel
Johnßton had been convicted.” An enquiry Into
Macarthur’s share In the proceedings resulted in
his being prohibited for eight j ears from returning
to the colony. He employed part of the interval
in a pleasant tour on the continent. Many hun-
dreds of poor wretches had been Bent to Botany
Bay for life for much less villaniei than his.
Bligh was immediately promoted to the
rank c f Rear- Admiral In the Navy, and employed
on aotive service. While the case was in progress,
Johnston made capital of the fact that Bligh had
b9sn involved in such enquiries before, while, to
himself, the position of prosecntor or defendant
was new and painful. There was some truth in
this ; for Johnston, as we have already seen, was
in the habit of shooting and hanging prisoners
without wasting time in prosecuting them.
But Bligh manfully met the charge with a
sailor like and Blmple account of his career
whioh compelled the respect of his hearers and
put the calumnies of the defence to the rout. He
referred to the charge of cowardice; he said he
knew that Mr. Macarthur wrote the despatch, in
which the circumstance of his having been found
by the soldiers in hiding under a bed was men-
tioned with vulgar triumph. But he could not
anticipate, he raid, that Colonel Johnston’s
address to the Court would be written in the same
spirit, and that, after being the victim of Mr.
Maoarthur’s intrigues, he would allow himself to
be made the tool of his revenge. Then he ex-
plained that just before his arrest he called
for his uniform, whioh was not a dress
adapted for concealment, and then, seleoting
some papers, he was tearicg some to pieces
and concealing the remainder when he was
discovered stooping over some doouments on the
floor, by the soldiers on the other side of the bed.
Ma’arthur’s 'actios pursued him to the last. Be-
fore the sentence was made known a false account
of the trial was published in the British Ex-
press, containing severe reflections on Governor
Bllgb. A cnpy of this, wet from the printing-
office, was posted anonymously to Bligh; and,
says Lang, “ on the inside of tbe envelope there
was sketched the figure of a pistol, iffiimating,
doubtless, that tbe old admiral had now nothing
better to do than to use Jthat instrument effeo-
tuafly, and be off! ” The sender o’ this was never
known. Bat if the reader will compare it with
the anonymous attacks on Governor King, and
with a certain surreptitious document ifsred by
Macarthur liter on, h 9 will see unmistakable
traces in all three of the one unscrupulous hand.
Only two Freetraders made any stand
against the passing of the N.S.W. Naval Tribute
Bi.lt
Thirty-one Protectionists and three Free-
traders announce themselves as candidates in the
coming Queensland election.
She : “ Where are you going, Charley?’
He : “Going to the opera." She : “Ah ! I under-
stand. The ballet. But why don’t you go to the
dog show instead? I think you will like It ever
so much better. The dogs, you know, have four
—twice as many as the ballet-dancers.”
In the British Honse of Commons, Labou-
chere’s motion to abolish Ihe Lords as an heredi-
tary ruling body was supported by Gladstone,
who forced the so-called “ Unionists,” who have
hitherto been trading on the name of Liberals, to
show their hand. They voted en masse against the
proposal, thus proving their sympathies to be with
the Toriee. who hold that! it is right and proper
that the eldest son of a peer should help to rule
the Empire, even though he be deaf, blind, dumb
diseased, idiotic, paralysed, one eared, and one-
eyed. At next general election not a third of the
Unionists will dare to face Liberal constituencies.
ORRESPONDENCE
H. A . (Orange): But can the statements be
verified?.... S.C.C.: The‘Kiclal Purity’cry is being used tw
a mere political dodge —An Austrian : Get naturalised
and you can laugh at the man-o’-war... J. Andrews (Sydney)
We have handed your last ‘ode’ to the ode editor, wh~ : ’ jusi
now Buffering from general paralysis of the insane. P.S.—
He is now dead, but you will receive his answer in the
mysterious Forevermore E. Merton: Such is the romance
and variety cf Australian life —one day you're a butcher anc
get fiaed for killing calves in your back-yard contrary to the
byelaw in that case made and provided; next day you’re
legislator and walk behind the local Governor with the
Countess of Carnarvon on your arm P.B.G. : Not at all
bad, but hardly worthy the space it would occupy... F. d
Shephard (Barringrn) : Received....Nink um-poch: Cannot
te 1 you whence the first Chinaman originated—you did not
send your address.... Oyster Johnnie : Tt is a big order, hut
wilt run through it and let you know... Stanmore: "Aus-
tralia of the Future" is above mediocrity, but requires
severe revision before it would be fit for publication
Student: Great Britain, most decidedly. Of vessels over 10G
tons, the United Kingdom had, in 1881,2869 steam and 11,893
sailing, making a total of 14,762. Germany, at same period,
had 277 steam and 3113 sailing vessels ; total, only 3390
Canada comes next to England, and the United States third
There are over a quarter of million British merchant seamen
the carrying-power has grown almost eight-fold since 1810,
and if England required seamen at the same ratio she would
need at present 1,300,000 sailors to do the work. The nominal
tonnage of England’s merchant navy is 6,692,000 tons. The
total nominal tonnage of Europe is only 14,043,000 tons, of
which Norway has 1,511,000 tODS, and Germany 1,182,000 tons.
The nominal tonnage of the United States is 4,067,000 tons
and of Canada, fifth on tli9 world’s list, 1.311,000 tons. The
highest average per 100 inhabitants is secured by Norway
with 95 tons: Great Britain comes second and Denmark third.
The carrying power of Great Britain is 20,000,000 tons....
P. J. Riley (Melb., Vic.): Thanks for item....A. G.
Stephens : Received E. M. Dent: (Silverton): Verses
considerably above average, but how do you manage to
rhyme ‘ yearn’ with ‘ morn’? .. .Zeph : Vigorous enough in
all conscience ; but you lay the lash too heavily on the con-
victs. What about their gaolers ? Not the convict heritage
cf an ill-odored name, but the laws made by convict-keepers
should excite your virtuous ire. All convicts were not
criminals. It would be a prouder boast for one to claim
Muir, the Scottish martyr, for an ancestor than to trace one's
lineage to the Conqueror. However, we’ll print your contri-
bution on its litera-y merits... C.°. : We were hitherto
under the impression that we had embodied your
suggestion, not once but a hundred times
John Shepherd (Charters Towers): It is undoubtedly true
that the foreigner is everywhere displacing the Englishman
in his own land, but the Englishman cannot help himself—
the foreigners work longer and live more cheaply because
they are in a oountry whr-re they are not known and where
they are not ashamed of doing many things they would not
do in their native land; besides, most of them are celibates.
....Barry O’Neil: The Bulletin' maintains that Australia
requires no army ; but least of all an English-officered army.
Events make generals, and the Grants and the Shermans,
during the American Civil War, soon brushed aside the im-
portant incompetents selected by bureaucracy to officer the
U. B.A. troops. So would it be with the Unite d States of
Australia in the event of war with any outside Power... J.
B. Armstrong: Is it not better to be ‘ had, as you put it,
than to have neglected a po3sibly deserving cause ?
And, by the way, what do you mean by ‘ deserving?’ Is the
reformed ‘ garotter,’ after all, of less consequence than the
reformed land-shark, or the ‘Christian’ who continues to
Bhark land without being reformed? Besides, the more de-
graded the object of your charity, the more he requires your
charity... ,H. W. Hall (Hermitage Plains): Yes, the Parkes
Government are alwayß ‘waiting for something to turn up.
....Guppy: Thanks....N.K.: Under analysis....D.L. (the
Meadows): Have we hot always pursued the course you in-
dicate ?...„J. H. Gilbert: Thanks for clipping Larry
Doonan: Sheer, unadulterated and degrading lunacy....D.
Wilson: Stupid, weak, inconsequential and unmetrical...,
Jindera : The shearers of all Australasia are now amalga-
mated, with the exception of the Blackall (Q.) who have
£2OOO to their bank credit and reckon to stand a10ne....
Henry Wright (Wellington): Received.... Oct Liberta
(Melb., Vic.): Your remedy is to take out papers of nationali-
sation as a British citizen, otherwise we believe the officers
would have the power you fear they have. As a naturalised
British citizen you can laugh at them....J. Andrews
(Sydney): You keep on sending jour 'pyetry’at a time
when we have odes in thousands under the table waiting to
be sold off by the ton. What's th's ?
Adrift cast our Premier ; oh ! may he atone
Or sink in oblivion to abyss unknown.
Can crude pestilent Freetrade such rancour iosMl,
Is it thus Henry Parkes requites by-gone goodwill.
Such rhymes deserve to sink....J.D.M. (Malvern): Good
story, but manifests a smothered tendency to be a chestnut.
....Scotty the W.: Where can we address you? We have on
hand a fine assortment of wisdom from your pen, which
shall shortly fee the light... .W.S.J.: Th? disinclination of
Melbourne Uaiversity authorities to confer ad eundem
degrees on graduates of German Unive-sities argues narrow-
mindedness, if not positive ignorance. The academical
system of Germany is quite as noble and just aB thorough as
that of England; the training which suffices to produce
a [German army-doctor will produce just as good
a man as comes cut of Melbourne University....
Barry O'Ntil: Thanks. Will deal with the subject....J
Lowe (Croydon, Q.): Thanks for leltare. Reid the a tide,
“The United States of Australia,” in last week's issue of
The Bulletin, and you will see why we support North
Queensland separation... .Subscriber (Newcastle) : G00d...
E. Mareden : Then what becomes of the ‘ Freetrade ’ of a
Government which ordersso lrcomotiveß, costing 20 per cent,
over imported piices, from local m5?....W. M’G. : Mr.
Adams was fined for promoting the'sweep, not merely for
using his hotel to receive mi ney. The getting-up of a sweep
is, no doubt, an illegal act.. Street Tramp: Thanks....
T.J.H.: Should be in by Monday; earlier, if possible.
Special matter on Tuesday... .P.J.R. • Not a very promising
story... Ben Demmy: Good item. Will use....H.H. (Ade-
laide) : Isn't there a fresh subject in all the wide range of
heaven, or earth, or the other spot which is hotter than the
sun-cursed 'plains cf the far Bare io, that you must needs
hammer at the Tummy silver-wedding grovei?
•
The Mayor, on behalf of the citizens of
Melbourne, tenders heaitfelt loyal congratulations
cn rccaslon of the silver-wedding of their Royal
Highnesses." So cabled Bailie Benjamin— salute !
About one citizen in every 500 approved of the
grove?, and the other 499 said “ D n!’’ on find-
ing themselves libelled by that lying message.
When many thousands of Melbourne men (not
ladies and ohildren) pasted a ieaolution approving
of Home Rule for Ireland, the Argus howled
against the absurdity of cabling that resolntion to
London as representing popular opinion. Yet the
Tory organ sees a world of “loyal" significance
in the message cf a title-hunting Mayor who
despatched it “ after a brief conference with his
Excellency the Governor." Those congratulations,
observe, were invented, arranged, and produced
under the personal management of a blessed
trinity—the Governor, the Mayor, and—we don’t
name the other party.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— " Erminie'• p. 15.
Criterion Theatre.—" Jack Sheppard ’• ,<
Her Majesty's Theatre.—" In The Rank* "
Alhambra Music Hall—Saored Concert ••
Alhambra Musio Hall—Minstrelsy
The period of man’s sojourn in this vale of
sorrow Is short and uncertain, and it is still more
uncertain where he will go to when he leaves.
Politicians, emperors, and Chinamen, bookkeepers
and assassins, have all in turn realised this fact;
they have spent the little span of their existence
in eating fat meat and laying on adipose tissue
and then the oaravan has come for them and they
have had to start. We run these solemn thoughts
into this notice of “Erminie,’’ now progressing at
Sydney l oyal, beoanse that opera was evidently
built to reconcile man to his inevitable fate and
make him feel that he is willing to go. It inspires
resignation and holy calm, and after sitting it
out the sinner experiences a desire to coil up his
tall and silently steal away to a better world,
while his earthly remains are softly carried by a
half-bred ass to some spot on a lonely hillside
where the wild winds roar and the bulls tack un-
easily against the blast. “Erminie" is a tale of
two conviots set to Blow music, who escape and
enter violently into the society of a lob of respect-
able, solemn, dismal people. The convicts them-
selves are a brilliant brace of raßoals, but they have
heavy odds to wrestle with. One of them,
William Elton, is a hound with an um-
brella and a nail at the end of it, a little
yellow man dressed in rags who sticks his bine
moulded gamp in’ the earth and contemplates it
with reverent admiration, and appirently he has
left his bones at home. He is a quivering, shaky
dwarf built of blanc-mange, and torn and rent
with merriment; he is filled up with gags, his
hair stands on end, his feet are immense, his
clothes are held together with nails, hair, bits of
wire, and the lire, and the exertion of keeping
himself together under these circumstances has
apparently reduced his brain to atrophy ; yet amid
all these difficulties he passes himself off as a
Baron, and hookß the portable property of the
upper classes to such an extent that the nobility
has to go home with hardly anything on. His
companion, Howard Vernon, is taller and more
dignified; he has six large patches on his pants,
and he falls out of top-storey windows with energy
and despatch, He also passes as a viscount, and
blasts coin out of the aristocraoy. The exertiors
of this pair save the opera from softening of the
third act, but they are bowled out while in the act
of retreating with six elephant-loads of burgled
goods, and the rest of the characters fall
flatter than a pancake dropped in the ashes.
The heroine, Erminie, is a commonplace
girl who Is ordered by her father to marry
the lag without the umbrella simply because
that oubcast has a vlsoount’s name on his linen
and his carpet-bag, and she Bings little, slow,
shock-headed songs about the misery of becoming
a oly-faker’s bride and the consort of a party who
slopes with wipes, when she has given her heart
to the long, thin, timid man of obscure but re-
spectable origin whom her father employs ab a
small salary. Miss Leonara Brabam sings these
dismal melodies prettily and plays Eiminie for all
she is woitb, but that is nob much. Miss Col-
borne-Bater keeps another washed-out girl from
foundering, and expends uptn her more talent
than Bhe is worth. Mr. Edwin Kelly represents a
marquis who ought to be roasted whole and given
to the poor; Miss Maggie Moore makes a got-
geons part out of a country girl in a short frock ;
Mr. Woodfield has been doomed by an unfeeling
management to represent a secretary who is so
full of melancholy that it is doubtful if he could
remember to keep his hair out of the bash ; and
Mr. Benham is good as a fat, comic publican.
Also Mr. Dunoan Young is in good condition,
and is tied to a tree. “ Erminie," on
the whole, is a first-rate opera for a man
to get away from and have a drink and
then forget to come back. We give It this word
of praise che jrfully out of the fulness of our
overcharged heart, and we will never go back
on it.
“ Little Jack Sheppard ” Is undergoing
yet another successful revival at Sydney Criterion.
Mr. Robert Brough re-appears as Jonathan Wild
and Mr. Warde is sufficiently recovered to take
his old part of Kneebone, both being received on
Saturday with enraptured howls from the
audience. Next S iturd ay a comedy season will
be commenced, “Sophia” being the opening
piece. The company will include Messrs.
Titheradge, Phil. Beck, Cathoarb, D. G. Bouci-
cault, George Lash Gordon, and Miss Myra
Kemble, and if that combination can't remove
mountains and heave features of natural scenery
into the Eea we will retire from the prophet busi-
ness in disgust. “ Jess ” travels on with gcod
financial results at the Gaiety, and Jack Grant,
whose lengthy figure used to cast a cool shade at
the door of the Royal Standard In the dog days,
now acts as Mr. Foley's representative. “In the
Ranks," at Her Majesty’s, has reached its 70th
night, and George takes a larger size in hats than
ever before. Also “Professor" Kennedy will
proceed to mesmerize the simple publlo, and will
make them eat oandfbs and raw fish while in a
stiffened condition, at the Opera House, on Satur-
day.
** # *
The Federal Minstrels are growing more
bloodthirsty as time progresses, and the sword
contests at Sydney Academy have assumed a hair-
raising aspect. On Saturday night one warrior
lost his leg, which his antagonist carried round in
triumph on the point of bis sword ; bub the sur-
viving half of the splib hero continued the struggle
for upwards of half an hour, and ultimately tore
the head off the other man's horse and scored a
win. The mangled remains of the competitors
were then carried out at midnight and buried in a
darksome plain underneath a dead tree at a place
where two roads meet.
## # #
Some responsible individual still keeps on
advertising the long list of old nobilitee who are
to prop up the Sydney “ Centenary Universal Ex-
hibition ” with an energy worthy of a higher
oause. At the time of writing (Tuesday) all sorts
of rumours are about, but the general idea is that
the proceedings will open with a procession and a
brass band, after which the swellß of N.S.W. will
advance, each preceded by a flunkey carrying his
coronet on a plate, and followed by several clerks
who will convey his initials. Behind them will
come the Lancers, and Nosey Bib, and the gaol-
flogger, and the Transit Commissioners all at full
gallop, with the Permanent Artillery, and the
Dawes’ Point forlifioations, and Carington’B letter
of condolence to the burnt-out Hordern, and
Beach and M‘Namara hooraying in their wake
with Parkea’ last insolvency schedule on a pole
and the Relief Fund in a wheelbarrow, and the
Federal Minstrels and the Botany Handicap and
the Dead-House, and Uncle Abigail’s bank, and
the last of the Empire nigger compositors, while
the rear will be brought up by a mixed gathering
of Anarchists, larrikins, Chinamen, and land-
sharks, with King Billy last of all. An ox, it is
also reported, is to be roasted whole and dis-
tributed to the poor, but as the roasting is to staTt
on Wednesday morning and the distribution is to
take plaoe on Wednesday afternoon, and it re-
quires nearly 20 hours to roast a whole ox de-
cently, and an ox roasted whole is odious any-
how, and as it would take six elephants rather
than one old, leathery bull to go round the poor
of Sydney, this part of the programme is not a
very promising one. We pin our faith to the pro-
cession.
# # # ■ #
A miserable creabure wrote to the Mel-
bourne Herald enquiring if Genevieve Ward
ever played in “Patience." Such a monster of
irreverenoe would be capable of asking if George
Darrell ever danced on a tight rope. Genevieve
has played the heroine of an Adelphi melodrama,
in rather short skirts, and the mother -in-law of old
comedy, when she wore a false stomach —but she
never sank to comic opera, although formerly
known as a singer in the legitimate.
## * *
On his benefit night, at Melbourne Prin-
cess's, Mr. Billy Elton received a basket of fl iwera
from the lieutenant of the Russian man-a’-war.
Gracefully reclining at the bottom of the basket
were one bottle of brandy and one ditto of cham-
pagne. The lieutenant, while he was aboub it,
might have chucked in a cold chicken and a Dutch
cheese set in salad.
** # *
The unbarbared “Ingomar” is still
prowling after Parthenia at the Bijou, amid
symptoms of subdued satisfaction. There are
many features of strange interest about this
dramatic light of other days. The spotless puritv
of Parthenia’s white linen walking-costume,
after a twe-flays’ tramp through the wilderness in
search of her aged parent, shows that ane'eat
Greeks possessed some secret of preservative wash-
ing. And, as the maiden never brought “ a
change" along to the mountain pass, one wonders
how she whiled away existence wh"n h*r drapery
was hanging on the line to dry. However, the
publlo swallow these difficulties, and “Ingomar”
THE SYDNEY “LADY UNDERTAKER,
goes very well, especially among the ladies, who
take their husbands and their fellers to see how
girls could fool the men hundreds of years b.c.—
The theatrical prattler for a Melbourne
sporting paper compares the local ‘ ’ Faust" with
performances he has judged in London and Paris,
and then goes on to say, “you can’t expect to get
out here such Mepbistopheles as Fauer oi Folli."
Great Malaprop! Evidently somebody told the
critic of Faure and Foil, but left him to guess at
the spelling of their distinguished names. No
printer is responsible for those errors.
** # *
Fancelll, one of the Bweetest tenor 3 and
sbnpidest actors that ever appeared in Italian
opera, died the other day. He quietly retired
from the business while bis voice was still
heaven’y, and left his Florentine farm to join the
angel choir at the early age of 53. May we hear
him sing once more at some future time !
*# # *
The pillars of Melbourne sasslety are not
madly planking down their three half crowns for
“cirole" seats at the Princess’s, but business is
good in other parts of the home. Trath to tell,
the Federici tragedy was a melancholy at*. for
“Faust," and the movements of the new Mephie-
topheles are followed with weird,' peculiar in-
terest. Young Mr. St. Clair—dropped into the
gap at briefest notice—3hapes very fairly well, so
far as he gae?, but he deern’t go very far, and he
looks too fresh and blooming for his part. Toe
Devil is, according to all accounts, a used-up
individual with a game leg and deep furrows of
dissipation in his manly cheeks. Now, there is
nothing about St. Clair to provoke a shudder
from a Sunday school teacher. The rest of the
show is as on the opening night—gorgeously feeble
and splendidly tame. Too frequently the wails of
the songsters are drowned by the swelling melody
of a largely increased orchestra. Kennedy, the
mesmerist, has kindly lefb off at the Opera House,
and now Grattan Riggs is to toe font) with his
“ Irish Detective.” Mr. Riggs has been working
that mine for sem 5 years, but it keeps paying a ivi-
deuds, and pre ent operations promise another
satisfactory yield.
-A" *7V* -7V*
“ Drink ” completes ids allotted span this
week, and on Saturday Charles Warner starts on
“ The Road to Ruin ”at Meloonrne Royal. ’Tis a
good, old-fathloned comedy, full of good parts
which the Triumvirate must fill right up if they
want to do ditto with the theatre Mr. St. Maur
is about finishing a not too bountiful season at tae
Alexandra, and the rival minstrel shows —Silk
Stockings and Coghill Bros.—are flourishing in
fiery opposition. They slang each ocher.
During a perform-
ance at Brisbane R -yal a
policeman in the circle
left the building in dis-
gust because a msmber
of the fcorce, acting in
the piece, accepted a
bribe.
AA. JL
“JV TV *7v“
Basie Jenyns, while
plaj mg in Melbourne,
was thrown a bouquet
bespangled with dia
mond3 and accompanied
by a note containing a
declaration of love. Essie
returned the diamonds.
There's so much paste
jewellery about now- i-
days, nobody can be cer-
tain about diamonds.
* * *
A coloured troupe
acted an original Biblical
play recently in the
States. Noah pranced
around in a liver pad
and striped soc ip, Abra-
ham went through a
step-dance in top-boots
and an opera-hat, and
another wellknown
gentleman, connected
With the sulphur busi-
ness, appeared in a mac-
intosh and with cow
horns on his hea?. Dur-
ing the last act, the
whisky circulated and a
fight ensued. Abraham
went home on a shutter,
and Ncah was called to
order for using bad
language unbefitting a
gentleman of his age and
well ■ known respecta-
bility. Satan passed the
night on the kerb. When
the curtain finally fell
the refreshmsnt-bar was
wrecked and twelve win-
dows broken. A public
announcement in the
papers notifies ihat the
performance will not be
repeated.
In the scaff)ld-scene in “Drink” a
dummy makes the fearful fall, as Charles Warner
is slightly over-weighted for it. When the play
was produced at the Queen’s Theatre, Sydney,
with the only Dampier as Coupeau, he actually
fell from the high staging, and by an athlatio
swing from ladder to plank simulated a dreadful
fall with marked sucoes?.
*# # *
In Australia, now-a-days, managers are
allowed to come on tastefully attired in tweed
suits to the stage, and deliver speeches of this
sort in reply to loud calls far an encore :—“ Ladies
and gentlemen, or rather not ladies and geatle-
men, but you people who are kicking up avow,
we fchould be very happy to do all this over again,
but there isn’t time,” There now 1
## # *
One of the greatest shams on the modern
stage is the scene in which the heroine goes to
bed In full view of the audience. There is
nothing real about it, somehow, and nobody
believes in it. But it was not always thus, and
an American paper tells how it was done long
ago when “La Belle Helene” was running in
New York, and weeps for the times that are
past•“ Of all the go-to-bad acts that have de-
lighted theatre-goers, ‘La Balle Helene,’ with
Aimea, when it was first produced in New York,
has the lead to this day for friskiuess. After
Menelaus departs, pending the visit of Paris,
Helene, magnificently dressed, wrapped in a
gorgeous cloaking garment, stood a moment
in the glowing lights; then, turning them
down and singing softly, she dropped the big
satin wrap, sha loosed the shining satin, she
put off her jewels, the unlaoed a oorsage, she
crept out of a peiticoat, sha sat down with un-
bound hai r and undid a pretty sandal boo% she
Bayed with a stocking cf violet-embraidared silk,
and finally whipped it off; she nursed her pretty
pink foot, and old men with bald haafla got nn-
tioipative and uneasy; she took both bottinea off,
and flapped their soles softly together in time
with the soft and langorous air she was half sing-
ing, half chanting ; she got yp and unclasped her
cerulean satin corset. Aimee had a plump and
pleasing person, poor dear, in bhose days. There
was just a nice armful of pretty woman let loose
on the vision in this proceeding. A subtle smell
Of subtle rose perfume camB over the footlights as
Almee in the one clinging garment skipped
behind a scene and emerged with a silken robe de
nuit half over her head. Into this she crawled,
and then throwing off the coverlid from a luxu-
rious couch, the lights burned lower still, and
Helene went to bed, while the hearts of half the
women and all the men beat responsive."
*# # #
Firework Pain wound up his Melbourne
season with a grand display for the benefit of the
Melbouri e and Alfred Hospitals. It was a beauti-
ful instance of Pain assisting suffering. The
hospitals took 10 per cent, of the gross receipts,
and the balance was scooped by the enterprising
philanthropist.
* # #
“ The Pickpocket,” a piece the very name
of which recalls memories of the “goadly”. who
have vanished with the cash, has enjoyed a real
good time at the Adelaide Royal. The situations
may be stupid in places, but so long as Messrs. Har-
wood, Titheradge, and B jucicault survived the
ccmedy was bound to crowd through with eclat and
anything else that the company couid lay their
hands upon, and the show travelled with the vim
of an iron stove racing downstairs, ‘ ‘ The Two
Roses” came nex , after which Brough and
Boactcautt give place to Frank Clark. Tommy
Hudson has come back to Garner’s Thea're. His
country tour only lasted a week, from which it
eeems possible that the agricultural inselle it was
not educated up to the level of his entertainment,
#* # #
“ Professor ” Kennedy, the Mesmerist, is
going up in a balloon shortly. It will be a cheap
trip for the aeronaut. He will need no gas.
** * #
John Howson, the low comedian who has
just died in the States, made some of his earliest
appearances at Sydney Lyceum. His debut was
made at Ballarat in '63, when he appeared as
Loren'z Hartmann In “ Helping Hands." How-
son was born in Hobart, and was the son of en
actor. The whole family, including Kdtnond, who
was an immense favourite in Melbourne, went to
America in '6l. H 8 San Franciscan widow and
only child—a boy of 12—live in New York John
Howaon died of heart-disease at the age of 11.
** * #
Kyrle Bellew i 3 reported to be going to
wed Mbs Genevieve Lytton, who is said to be a
scrumptious damsel of the blonde va-iety, Mary
Anderson intends it Is said, to tie herself to a
member of the troussred sex in the person of a
nice, young, well-behaved commercial man,
Several lordly suitors for the hand of the latter
lady are said to be contemplating suicide.
## * *
The other day, Augiut Bartling sued his
brother Bill in a Melbourne court to recover £l9,
tae value of two rout teeth, which William, in a
moment of anger, removed from their old site by
larding hi 3 little brother one with the left,
Willi am pleaded that he only smashed one tooth,
and that an old, rusty-coloured incisor which com-
pletely spoilt the front view of August's facial
orifice. It seems that plaintiff tooted a cornet in
an orchestra, in which business he found those
front teeth a material ass ? stance to him, but now
he can no longer manipulate a wind-ins rament,
and is compelled to take a back seat, an j perform
on the kettle drum—an occupation at which his
high-C musical soul revolt''. The magistrates,
wailsb allowing that William had conferred a
great benefit) upon the public in silencing the
cornet for ever, could not overlook the fact that
he had driven his brother from bad to worse-to
the kettle-drum, in fact—and gave a verdict for
£l9, and £8 4s 6d. costs.
In the course of her adventurous career,
the irrepressible Mrs. Gordon-Balllie has been
married to a certain well-known Australian
singer, to whom she is understood to be indebted
for her four famous children. Mr. ,if we
remember rightly, was performing at a London
theatre when the lady began to woo him in letters
delivered to the stage-door keeper. An interview
resulted. Mrs. G.B. appeared to be rich as she
was beautiful, and the (at that time) tenor fell a
victim to her wiles. Such is the Btory of that
marriage, we believe, but there are other hus-
bands somewhere about.
*# * #
Signora Murfi appears in the programme
of a recent London concert, Signora Bridget, we
presume. Ernest St. Clair, who has taken Fade-
rlct’s place as Mephistopbeles, at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, is partner with his father in the window-
[ sash tra 'e. Edward Farley was once a bricklayer.
Plain Bill Holloway offers up a peti'ion night and
morning that Providence may be pleased to Aura
his company into actors. A travelling company,
which was doing large business in Victoria, has
jast wound up owing to the sudden soarceness of
the manager, who scudded down the paths of sin
with the cash-box. Kate Alma has been stormiDg
the golden land of Caarters Towers (Q.), and has
got both her feat into the cash-box of that auri-
ferous land. Mrs. J. A. Delaney, who died re-
cently in Melbourne, was known as a popular
vocalist there some 17 years ago. Sha also played
in opera—that is to say, sha took the part of
Arliae in the “ Bohemian Gi 1" for one night,
after which the mauagament suggested that she
should reit for the remainder of her life.
The New York Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals has appealed to the Mayor on
behalf of Josef Hoffman, on the ground that he is
overworked. Josef is now officially r joogaised as
an animal. The Lynch Family of Bellringers
started same time ago on a tour round the world.
They have now got as far as Melbourne, and, as
their audiences run into thousands, they will
probably stay there, Minnie Palmer promises to
visit Melbourne at Exhibition time, and scoop in
the dollars and cents. Kennedy’s “ Called Back”
company have been doing CharJeville, Tambo, and
other places in the Queensland wilds where the
kangaroo still holds out. One of the company re-
ports that he put his boots outside his bedroom
door at the hotel and a pirate with a slush-bucket
threw them back into the room, stating that ‘' no
one but a gory fool would leave his boots out like
that to be copped.” A Btig!an manager issues
his programmes in various colours - a red bill atg.
nifles that the play is bloodthirsty ; a yellow bill,
that it is immoral and that gentlemen bring their
wives at their own risk, the management taking
no responsibility; a blue bill means that the boss
can’t tell for certain whether it is moral
or not, and that the audience must come and
judge for themsfivos, while a white prog'amme
explains that the drama is as pure and elevating
as it can be. Actresses' complexion can be bougtti
at eiph eeupence a bottle. It is now the correct
caper for the author of a new play to come before
the curtain and bow at the beginning instead of
the end of the performance. He does this to
dodge the bricks.
Bear with us for a moment, while we twang the
gay guitar,
And Bing of Essie Jenyns as the maid in “In-
gomar.”
Just doesn’t she look lovely, from her top-knot to
her feet,
Though she wears no other garment than a clean
and classic sheet!
0! surely no Greek maiden, of that very early
time,
Struck attitudes so pretty as the subject of our
rhyme;
And never did a savage get so sweet a bit of
goods
To be his ladr-help amid the sllencs of the woods—
To strike him with a feather, and to stab him with
a rose,
Keeping one eye on the savage, and the other on
her pose.
A fig for human nature in the playing of a part,
Provided that the player is (excuse the slang) a
“tart."
What matters it, while Essie is so fair to look
npoD,
And oan reproduce the pictures of Miss Mary
Anderson l
Her arb is olt apparent, and her classic passion
cold,
Bub the classic sheet keeps falling in a very olassic
fold.
And when her note is baritone we never care a
cuss—
For are not we barbarians, and ain’t she mashing
us ?
Down, silly little flutterer ! how madly dost thou
beat
At the mention of that damsel, doing “ statues”
in a sheeb i


Pepper
And
Salt
“The Seduction Punishment Bill
(N.S.W.), rendering seducers liable to imprison-
ment for two years, has passed through com-
mittee.” We’ll oblige the committee with a song :
A man named Hcgdkin, who spent three
months in Australia, is now lecturing in England
on his experiences. From certain of hisremaiks
we gather that he feels hurt on acoount of some
of our institutions—
Politics were not in a very flourishing state in Australia,
and this was admitted hy the colonists themselves. In some
countries the payment of members of Parliament brought
forward a very inferior class of candidates, and some of
them made promises which they were not able to keep, and
if kept, would be highly impolitic. The members of Parlia-
ment, and even the statesmen, were easily accessible. The
lecturer remembered at one time during hb stay having an
interview with one of the colonial Premiers, during which a
reporter coolly opened the doorand asked the Prime Minister
if there was any news for the evening papers. (Laughter.)
Fancy an Australian member of Parliament
making promises which he isn’t able to keep !
Imagine Haynes doing such a thing! Contem-
plate Parke 3 trying it ! And when you have con-
templated try to imagine an English M.P., Buch
as Balfour or Hughee-Ha'lett, sinking so miserably
low! Anyone who wants to realise the great
gulf that separates Australian from English politics
has only to keep his eye on Hodgkin and note the
horror of that man at the sight if a politician
making promises which he isn’t able to keep.
* • *
The Charity Organisation Society of Mel-
bourne hasn’t done much for the indigent and
afflicted so far, But it has furnished an office,
appointed a council and some paid officials, and
now it is discussing the urgent necessity for prose-
cuting beggars. Charity, dear friends, fcuffereth
Jong and is kind, and when it Is properly organ-
ised the distressed pcor get about one penny in
the pound of the Society’s gross receipts.
* * #
"W hen the Naval Defence Bill was before
the N.Z, Legislative Council, a little while ago,
Mr. John Shephard administered a galvanic
shock to the tenants of the Mausoleum, Every-
body else had been raving about the “ grand old
mother country,” and about the “unity of the
Empire,” and the business was nearly through
when Shephard rose with a derisive hoot, and
asked what it was all about ? Then it suddenly
dawned on the House that it didn’t know, and the
President hastily telephoned to the Premier to ask
what they had been going on like that for. Did
this country thirst for a patent collapsible cata-
maran merely as a sign of British supremacy,
Shephard wanted to know, or was it intended as
a means of saving them from a foreign yoke 1 In
that case, where was the yoke? Nobody could
tell. What was the good of the unity of ihe
Empire if they hadn’t boots for the winter? The
Chinese must gc. Whoop ! He moved as an
amendment that they give up the attempt to
paint the lily and to add a new perfume to the
skunk, and that New Zealand should rise in its
might as the new patent, bounceable State of the
Pacific, and not haDg on any longer in her present
position, weeping tears of maudlin joy down the
back of the motber-ccuutry which held her in a
fond embrace. He had gob into this subject with
both legs, and it was his day to how). Other men
might demand the protection of a British fleet,
bub for his part he was prepared to stand before
the world with one eje on a fork and his coat split
down the back and bark for liberty. His remarks
were addressed to pirates, agriculturists and
monarchs. and the human race ia general. The
old trombone of loyalty had been blown all over
the land, but he hid gazsd into the instrument
and found ib to be empty. All'flesh was grass.
He addressed them in the interests of his sorrowing
country, and if he voted for an ironclad fleet at a
time when half the population didn’t know where
they would get their next waistcoat, it would be
impossible for him to go home and slumber peace-
fully, with a pair of cold feet planted in his back
and the dog screaming in the yard. He demanded,
therefore, that the Bill should be put* into the
stove by acclamation, or else thrown out of the
window to the goats, and that the men who voted
for it should be held accursed in this world, and
should be expelled from the refreshment-room and
doomed to eat cold potatoes on the stairp. The
speaker wound up with an eloquent peroration,
and then ex-Attorney-General Whitaker oame
with two rheumatic feet up to the scratch, and
screamed wildly that he was disgusted, surprised,
and bitterly disappointed at the language of the
honourable member. For his own part he was
filled with the faith which would remove moun-
tains and arable lands and shif b real property from
its basis, and New Zealand was going to have its
ironclad fleet though the windows of the House
had to be stuffed with old hats. Let the country
dine on state horse, so long as it lived up to the
traditions of its forefathers. The other members
of the institution agreed with Whitaker, and the
Bill get through.
* * *
Speaking at St. John’s College banquet
the other night, Plain Bill stated sadiy that:
The successful politician, whose career is an insolent
triumph over the necessity of any culture whatever—a per-
petual challenge to every species of refinement, and a
mockery of even rudimentary education itself gets the
reverence which is rarely offered to the educated school-
master.
Plain Bill always expresses himself in well-
chosen language. Now, if Parkes were trying to
make the same remark, this is what he would
say:
Hi ve observed that a lot of mole-eyed, withered taran-
tulas, who ’aven’t been hedjicated worth a hitem get hinto
the’ouse, and all the thieves, crimps, hand blacklegs c>awl
to ’em, hand yet they wouldn't heat in the Borne ouse with a
schoolmaster, though ’e’s a man of hedjicatlon.
Plain Hanglo Yaxon is Parkes’ best hold.
* * *
Mr. J. S. Farnell, a grey-headed gentle-
man who has made the relations between the
sexes his legislative speciality, and who seems to
take a solemn and morbid pleasure in drawing up
laws which go off all of a sudden and blow up the
policeman who is trying to enforce them, gob a
Bill through its second reading in the N.S.W.
Council, the other day, and the way he did it was
mean to the lasb extremity. He simply stunned
CONVERSATION HEARD THE OTHER DAY.
DO YOU SEE THAT MAN ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET?”
YES—WHO IS HE?”
HE'S A PAINTER. HE CLEARED £50,000 IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS."
GREAT M'GUFFIN! AND I THOUGHT PAINTERS WERE ALL SUCH POOR DEVILS."
YES-BUT HE'S A HOUSE PAINTER."
AH!"
the House by this clause, and the measure waa
through before members had time to revive
Seduction, for the purposes of this Act, means the offence
of taking advantage ef the love and trust of the female, or
effects the carnal desire of the male, or effecting the same
object by false promises or deceitful representations.
Mr. Farnell has contemplated this one subject so
long that he has got broken up, and his brain
doesn’t draw enough water aft for the job he has
on hand. Supposing now that the “ oarnal desire
of the male ” was for a cheap dinner, and he took
advantage of the love and trust of the female who
runs a boarding-house to get it, and then the lady
ran him in under this Bill, and he gob 15 years’,
how would Mr. Farnell feel about It. anyhow ?
Whe 1 Sir Henry Parkes went to Bathurst
to slang-whang Sutbor in the interests of Doctor
Cortii?. the foreign-trade committee who Intro-
duced him reserved car tain seats in the dress-
circle of the School of Arts for ladies of the “ first
families ”in the City of the Plains. The toadies
evidently thought this would please th 9 old man
with the mane! but. on the contrary, when he
beheld the exhibition he gave a snort of defiance,
elevated his nose more than ever, and began his
address. “Mr, Chairman and gentlemen,” studi-
ously avoiding any reference to the ladies. Ia
addition, while speaking of the effects of a tariff,
he pointed out. with a coarseness which is part of
his nature, that all necessaries would be taxed,
even to ladles’ improvers and the pretty litt’e
ornaments with which the dear creatures decorate
their bedrooms, the wash-stand and . . .
If he thought he oould bring a blush to the fair
dames who came to listen he made a huge mistake.
They ain't built that way in bullocky Bathurst,
That men who betray
Should the penalty pay
Is not an idea which is new, sirs
But, how many years
Will yon give to the dears
Who slyly seduce the seducers ?
Isn’t Potiphar's wife
Met in latter’day life ?
(Though Joseph defunct, we re afraid is.)
Perhaps, theD, you will
Put a clause In that Bill
Protecting weak men from the ladies.
EMPEROR WILLIAM.
DIED, MARCH 9, 1888.
An Kmperor, aged ninety-one,
The stoutest of poor Freedom’s foes,
Ilia gory race at length has run,
And down among the dead men goes,
Deep, bloody footprints has he left
Behind on Time's accusing sands,
And widowed wives of love bereft,
And mothers wringing yet their hands.
If he had vanished from the scene
In that same hour that gave him birth
Mankind, perchance, had nearer been
To realising Peace on Earth.
And so he’s dead ! No blood shall run
In rivers more at William’s nod :
The hoary soldier’s work ij done—
Now let him get his wage from—God.
Australia versus England.
Dear Bulletin, —lb appears to be your
aim to embitter the Ausbraliau people as much as
possible against the English. No opportunity is
lost to sneer at and deride anything English, and,
apparently, simply because it is English. The
Bulletin seems to lose sight altogether of the
facb that the “ distinguished visitors," the ‘ Im-
perial Federationists," the “Lord Brasseys,'' &0.,
are as much despised by the English people as
they can be by the Australian people, as repre-
sented by The Bulletin, and it never seems to
be suspected that those same English are as much
opposed to Salisbury's notion, to priestcraft, and
monaroby as are the men of N.S W, to Parkes's
idiotic “ Dead House.” English people are appa-
rently judged by The Bulletin by the actions of
their Government. What would be the character
of N S.W. if the same rule were applied ? Even as
the Australian ideal people are at heart Republi-
can and liberty-loving, so are the English, in spite
of the De Bressis, and any English workman will
tell you that a London mechanlo is considerably
more Republican than any Australian, and the
chances are that the English Republic will (jive
Australia her freedom before the Australians
summon up enough pluck to ask for it.
* # *'
And all this talk has been generated by
reading the letter of “A Growler" in your last
issue. That gentleman first makes an attack on
the English climate, and then goes on to contrast
living in England with in Australia, and, so as to
make the contrast more forcible, he takes the most
wretched class in England and puts it side by side
with the case of a we’l-tc do mechanic in Austra-
lis. But to deal with the climate first. Cold,
ralD, and fog, appear to be most of “ A Growler's ”
trouble?. Leaving aside the question as to why
he stays there, if he doesn't like It (poverty can-
not be the cause, as he allows he only went to
England to spend the money made in Australia),
I would like to enquire whether heat, flies, mos-
quitce®, dust, lack of water, and the absence of
anything approaohlng the comforts of a home.
are not a sufficient set-off to these lnconyenienoes 1
In the cold weather of England one can go out
for a brisk walk with the blood dancing through
his veins and feel as if he were alive. What a
contrast to the languid saunter that characterises
the people of Australia ! And as the walk is one
of the strongest marks of character so the “ Aus-
tralian crawl" is the very essence of the languid
indolent Australian nature. Americans don’t
stroll along the streets, nor do the English, and
rapid movements are characteristic of their
energetic nature. Again, even “Growler” is
foroed to admit the picturesque loveliness of the
changes wrought by the seasons in an English
landscape. Bat he doesn’t contrast those scenes
with the dull, sombre. burnt*up, dusty, unchange-
able monotony of the Australian scene, therefore
I take the liberty of doing it for him.
• * *
Now, to turn to the sooial conditions of the
two nations. “Growler” says he would like all
Australians to see the condition of the English
labourer. I am not going to give any fancy
sketohes; I know that their lot is bad enough,
but is the Australian labourer's any better 2 Re-
member, the Englishman has been used to it, and
his hardy nature doesn’t feel it as muoh as one
would expect, but that is not the case with the
Australian. Two-thirds of the labourers here are
mechanics, storemen, clerks, counterhands, &c.,
who never knew what piok-and*shovel work
meant before. They go out and camp in tents
and eat salt mutton and damper, and drink liquid
mud, and swelter in the fierce sun, and gasp in
the hot winds, and flounder in the rain aud slush,
and are, acoording to “Growler," supremely
happy. Perhaps it he had experienced it as I
have he would not be quite so sure about that.
As to the mechanics, if the labourer gets IS?, per
week, the mechauio gets £2 usually. lam a
mechanic, and at the age of 17 earned 25?. a week
in London. At the age of 211 was earning £1 a
week in this very city of Sydney, and, later, 30s.
in Melbourne. My brother, who came out with
me, has never been able to get a day’s work at his
trade since he landed. With regard to the home
of the English mechanlo as drawn by “ Growler,"
let him swallow and digest this The landlady
of the house at which I am now living pays
£1 per week rent. There are six alleged rooms
with partitions of match-boarding not reaohing
within three feet of the ceiling, and a yard six-feet
wide by 15 long, all in the last stage of dilapida-
tlon. .That is Australia. The house where I lived
in London, and where my parents still live, con-
tains six rooms with brick walls, flreplacs in eaoh
room, a garden 20 feet by about 120, gay with
flowers, and the rent, O, “Growler!” was 8s 6d
per week and no taxes. To sum up, I have no
hesitation in saying that the English labourer
with his 18s, and the mechanic with his £2, arc
fifty limes better off, when in work, than the
Australian labourer with his 6a a day. or the
mechanio with his £3 per week—when he can get
it—also supposing them in work. Of course, there
is the usual little fable about the absence of meat
in England, but “Growler” gives himself away
by saying the men eat bacon. So likely they
would buy bacon at Is a pound when they can get
meat at 4d and od !
♦ * *
Now comes the usual indignant query—
“lf you were so much better off in England, why
the adjective nonn (or it wouldn’t be Aus-
tralian) did you leave ?" Well, dear friends, I
left beoause ninety-nine hundredths of the Aus-
tralians in England are d liars. Is that an
answer ? “ Well, why the —— adjective-noun
again—don’t you go back?” Patience, dear
friends, I am working 16 hours a day in Sydney,
and saving nearly a pound a week, and when I
get enough to pay my passage, greased lightning
will have to be smart to pass me on the way to the
first vessel bound to England and away from this
land of avaricious, lounging, foul-mouthed vaga-
bonds of all nations, who, with the chance of
making this country the most glorious under the
sun, prefer to remain a grovelling and invertebrate
dependency of a miserly monarch whose throne is
supported but on pillars of day, and the Brum-
magem finery of wnose court is fast giving place
to the Government of the people by the people,
which means the total destruction of all that is
most piously reverenced by the present grovelling
Australian;—Yours, very truly,
COCKNEY.
BRIEF MENTION.
M.P.- Mag pie.
A quarts-mine. —A pub.
A boarding-hoaae has beon destroyed by
fire in a Melbourne suburb. Hashes to ashes.
If gold was “ Money ” Miller’s god, of
course the great financier has gone “below” to
meet him.
A certain Melbourne lawyer contends that
the “ purse-trick ”is a game of skill. His clients
know that.
There is some talk of forming a society of
midwives in Melbourne. Will they advocate
ighthours’ labour?
A great change is coming over England.
"John Bull, a half-caste,” has got six months in
Sydney for shooting a man.
David Gaunson says the Victorian Licens-
ing Act has not a leg to stand upon. Then
wherefore so many breaches ?
A stamp-extractor of 15 horss-power is
advertised for sale in a Ballarat paper. Some
dentisb retiring from biz., no doubt.
Brisbane Courier says, “ the Prince of
Wales is the son of his mother." Comment would
only aggravate the offence.
It is proposed to establish large smelting-
works on the Yaira, near Melbourne. Meanwhile
the establishments in the vicinity are easily smelt.
The Sydney Evening Hews says, “ the
hand of fate is heavy on the house of Hohenzollern."
We defy Parkes to repeat this sentence within
one month.
Bishop Moorhoose has preached to the
Queen. We expect this honour will lead Jimmy
Manchester to ohange his views regarding prayer
for reign.
Hobart Mercury says the local city fathers
are “dirt bags, and their name’, like their aot3,
will everlastingly stink in the popular nostrils."
It’s no good talking in that way in Sydney.
Frederick Fraser, of North Melbourne,
got three months’ hard labour for striking his
mother in the eye with a pat of butter one day
last week. The charge was ‘ 4 eye-salt and buttery.”
A Victorian judge with solemn naivete
enquired the other day what a “Jong beer”
meant. It was a fearfully hot day, and yet
nobody in the court had the decency to ask him
out.
A Queensland company has been floated
in London called “The Bishop's Great Gold-
Mining Company.” The next company formed in
the same place should be called “The Collection
Plate."
A discussion on “ How to lie when
asleep" has spread into nearly every English-
speaking paper In the world. The investigation
was. no doubt, instigated in the interests of the
Freetrade party.
Speaking of a man who was gored by a
cow, Melbourne Herald says : 4 4 Deoeased had a
rent In his stomach six inches long and four
deep." We olaim the Italics, and advise the
Herald man to take a lesson in anatomy.
Major Lovelock, of the Wellington (N.Z.)
Harmy. put his foot down heavily at a howling-
match recently. “Now, my friends," said the
Major, “I'm a goin’ to pass the plate round, and
I caution you all to put in your money, every bit
of it. Open your hearts and empty your pockets.
Don't keep hanythlnk back, or you may ba struck
dead like Ananias and Sophias, as you’ve just
been a-readin' of. Take warnin’ by that ere
married couple without hincumbranc?, and don’t
hold owt back.” The Major sat down, and the
plates went merrily round —and came back with
bhe usual assortment of old copper and brass
buttons.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
tions into the evidence of psychioall and physical
phenomena when considered in the light of
natural science.
Bismarck* it is well known* was always
strongly opposed to the marriage of the Crown,
Prince with tiie English Princess Royal, and he is
never tired of pointing out* to his familiars the sad
degeneration effected in the Hohensolienw by
crossing their Wood with the vitiated fluid which
runs in the veins of the GueLphe. The eldest eon
of the Crown Prince, now praotioally Regent, is a
deformed and scrofulous dandy. Hla father, who
has undergone, the hardships of many campaigns,
was. on the contrary, until shortly beforo%is pre-
sent illness, a man bo vigorous that b® was able
to jump early every morning (into tire ice-cold
swimming-bath at the bitr racks.
The faultless form, of ex-Dekscfcive Otto
Berliner is now to be s aen on the Bgriney block.
Otto caused a lot of official trouble to the late
1 Captain Scandlsh over the alleged Incapacity of
that gallant officer to manage ®ie Viotorian
police force. Berliner having shaken the official
i dust off his feet, started a .private enquiry office,
which has been highly successful. He is the
man who chartered a steamer and followed the
abßconder Itosenwax to Fiji (before Thakombau
gave up his crown and soeptre to Sir Hercules
Robinson), and brought .his man back in triumph
to penal servitude in Fe ntrldga prison. In those
far distant dayß Fiji was the absconder's paradise.
Contingent upon Mr. Frank Faun ell's Bill to
legalise the totalisator in Ifew South Wales, a
number of people—some f>f whom know all about
the subject, and some nothing—have rushed into
print in the columns of the daily papers to argue
for and against the legalising of betting. Practi-
cally the whole question is om which lies en=
IL nephew of Yon Moltke Is at work in
itoria as a rabbiter.
Emperor William was a soldier to the
He died on the March.
Victoria has netted £500,000 by
Jubilee. She reoeived half-a-million In pre-
ts and didn’t spend a cent,
rhere are three alleged Australians in the
glish House of Commons —Childers, Henniker-
aton, and Sir Salmon Wilson
tsaac Selby, Freethought lecturer, has
;en in hand a tough contract. He is now a
al editor of Thsdaus O’Kane at Charters
vers.
Lord Hindlip, son of Allsopp, the Burton
iwer, never drinks his father s beers, and smiles
lly at the mention of the humble colonial three-
iny. He is travelling for his heiltb.
A wild admirer of Parkes deliriously
ids up a paragraph on that gentleman in a new
mtry paper with the remark, “Long may old
,rry reign.” Yet he honestly intended a com-
ment !
Several of the recently-appointed N.S.W,
Iges have been worried a good deal by having to
'nee to try casesin which they had been interested
die at the Bar. Judge Foster, however, hasn't
an troubled that way.
South African papers report that Remenyi,
9 violinist, is not dead, but In the shipwreok he
it his collection of violins. He is said to be
lying at Kimberley on the diamond fields. We
icerely hope this is true.
Henry Green, the Bourke squatter, who
is shot down a few years ago by a station-hand,
,s now, we hear, almost recovered. His would-
assassin, on being satisfied his victim was dead,
ot himself through the heart.
Tae statement of the London sassiety cor-
spondent of the S.M Herald that Tummy did
it visit one of John L. Sullivan’s bunkum flsti-
iff shows and was not introduced to the boss
aggarb of the planet, is untrue. Yates, of
e London World, gives full particulars, and
ates he was there.
An articled clerk In Melbourne has had a
,tle bother about his certificate. It appears that
ils document was in two days late. The names
! the e’erk are Edouard Holroyd George Alfred
ouls Alphonse Permezel. The Judges decided
tat under the circumstances the delay was ex-
lsable. We should ihink so.
Henry Chaplin, the new South Australian
overnor. is a played-out turf plunger and friend
[ Tummy’s, whom he helped to persuade to go on
le turf just when Rosebery had the good sense
j see he was being robbed and abandoned it.
baplin owes his billet to “ Wales.” of course, and
e will run it on the cheap like Loftns,
Joe Symes, the Melbourne Freethought
Lpostle, was nearly being sold up, the other day,
y the minions of the District Court. The sale
ras deferred till his notice of appeal was decided
pon. There would have been a bad quarter of
n hour for a number cf personages holding high
lOtitlons in Heaven if that sale had not been
topped.
The late Mr. Federicl stated that he was
irst cousin to Colonel Valentine Baker, on the
trength of which connection he brought ou 1 ) a
atter of introduction to Sir Henry Loch, and was
ncs invited to dine with that great man. Talk-
Dg of Va’. Baker it seem 3 that the amorous
varrlor only left £4OOO behind him, so he didn’t
poll the Egyptians to any considerable extent.
The Duke of Rutland, who has just been
'ithered to his fathers, acquired distinction In
iis earlier days. As the Marquis of Granby, he
ignred on the sign-board of many an old English
mb,, being an even more popular favourite than
Wellington or Nelson in this respect. Didn’t the
‘ vidder ” who married Sam Weller's father keep
he “Marquis of Granby,” and wasn’t it there
■ihat Stlggins liquored free on pineapple rum ?
It is said that the Prince of Wales has
been making heavy bets for years past that he
will not outlive his mother, the money, if he winp,
to be divided between his two sons. U ntll some
two or three years ago these inspiriting offers used
to be accepted cheerfully, but of late Wales has
arown balder and more unsteady on his legs and
fils hands shake in the morning in a suggestive
way, and now very few care to wager about him.
A Queensland paper describes Bishop
Webber as “a tallish, well-nourished, rather
nwkward sort of man, with a foxy beard and an
jcclpnt inclined to be bald ; no sort of figure, and
doesn't wear stays or Improver; beard and fore-
head held at an argle of 45 degrees to the horizon;
expressionless eyes; restless demeanour; takes
25 seconds of silent preliminary prayer always ;
prize-fighter’s nose; theocratic, mythical, and
oracular."
Thera is a story about old Peter Faucatt,
the N.S.W. Supreme Court Judge who lately re-
tired.' He was somewhat short-sighted, and one
day a very diminutive barrister appeared before
him to move something or other. When
the short man stood up alongside “ Jumbo,”
a very tall barrister, who wae sitting
down their heads were about on a level,
and as soon as the small manbsgaD, “If your
Honor please, I ” “Ye must stand up when
v’ address the Coort,” interrupted old Peter, iras-
cibly “ I awr standing up," said the small man,
with dignity. “Then tell the gentleman along-
side ye to sit down.”
When Graham Berry gave up the little
huckster’s shop on the Toorak road, he conceived
and carried out the project of purchasing a small
suburban paper, the Collingwood Advertiser.
Soon afterwards he attempted one night to take a
seat in the reporters’ gallery, but the high toned
representatives of the wealthy morning journals
obiected and the then Spcake-, Sir Francis
Murphy sustained che objection. The little
’Twer did nit indulge in extended parliamentary
reports, and no Beat or desk was set apart for that
Journal. So that the man who afterwards led the
House and ruled the country was refused a seat
in the reporters’ gallery.
Mr Frank Molyneux Govett, one of the
most able exponents of the doctrines of Herbert
Spencer that ever visited Sydney, was, the other
evening, banqueted by the members of the Cen-
tury Club, prior to his departure for Europe in
the Habsburg. Mr. Govett, the son of an arch-
deacon of the Anglican Church, was trained for
the Church, but inheriting revolutionary and
socialistic sympathies from Barras, the French
Republican leader, of whom he was a grandson,
he surrendered his ecclesiastical prospects. Mr.
Govett Intends, during his stay in Europe, to pub-
lish a work upon which he has been engaged for
many months, giving the result of his investiga-
THE FRUIT OF THE ORANGE TREE.
“You can tell a tree by its fruit.” —Uncle Abigail's speech.
tirely outside the province of politic?. People
will bet and gamble till (the crack of doom.
For all essential purposes gambling is legalised
already. Stock-broking, ehare-jobbing, mining
and land speculation are all legalised forms of
gambling just as much as the faro-tables of Monte
Carlo. Newspapers—the alleged guardians of
national purity—are only gigantic gambling
machines themselves, especially when they are
run in the interests of land-jobbing and mine-
speculating syndicates. Whether the New South
Wales Parliament legalises the totalisator or nob,
matters very little, so far as principle is concerned.
One thing is certain, if people dissipate their
money in racing, they have no “coin” with
which to speculate in mining booms, and the
bloated silver shark is just as much a public
robber as the leviathan bookmaker. Human
nature dearly loves a little illicit excitement, and
just as men who eschew alcoholic drink and
tobacco smoke take to morphia, opium, and other
injurious drugs, so the natural gambler indulges
his propensity without let or hindrance, if not on
the racecourse, on the Stock Exchange or the
wheat market. Men cannot be legislated to
church, neither can the natural man be suppressed
by Acts of Parliament. Laws can be framed,
however, to keep the business straight, and in
some countries the State has sense enough to re-
cognise this and to conduct lotteries, &c., under
governmental supervision. It is only fair to ask
the same Ministry that legalises the totalisator to
establish a State Mont de Fiete, which would
render impossible the extortions of the politician-
conducted bank with its 200 per cent, inters r , on
blood-sweating loans to necessitous workmen.'
Says the S.M. Herald in connection
with something or other The varions gifts of
Moses and of Aaron may be united, but are not
necessarily found together.” Certainly not.
You’ll generally find that Moses runs his iust up
the street, while Aaron obliges the Gentiles round
the corner,
POLITI CAL
POINTS
The debt of the United States was decreased
during 1887 by 112,000,000d01a. Protection at its
damnable tricks again, and the oountry wobbling
to destruction.
The Australian Trades Congress has re-
fused all “ patronage.” A workman is president,
and Premier Griffith's efforts to join in the crowd
have been cut short straight off.
Unfortunate Parkes we know
Continues to aggravate us,
For a State House he will go,
To post-mortem preserve his status.
A Queensland paper chronicled a Chinese
meeting under the heading of “Parliament of
N.S. Wales.” It may have been a mistake, but
it was not so very misleading when you come to
think of it.
The “great” Unionist gathering to wel-
come Goschen and Hartington, the Coerclonists,
to Dublin, was a bogus. They couldn't drag
together more than 5000 people out of 300,000 in
the whole town.
It is proposed to stop all business of a
controversial nature in the British Commons at
1 o’clock p.m. The N.S.W. Legislature should
follow suit. Larry Foley always closes Ms boxing-
hall at 11 Bharp.
Frank B. Suttor, formerly Postmaster-
General and M.P. for Bathurst, is back from Eng
land, a stronger Protectionist than he-was when
he left N.B.W. a year ago. Mr. Suttor will oust
Dr. Cortis very easily at next election.
In the German-Austrlan Treaty, the
Emperors of Germany and Austria refer to them-
selves as “the two illustrious contracting par
ties ” and the “ two august contracting parties."
How a healthy German Anarohist must enjoy the
grim fun of the thing t
Five years ago the Brisbane eight-hours’
men were refueed passage down Qaeen-street, and
the Courier sneered at them as a Bmelly crowd
of ill-dressed agitators. To-day the procession
suspends all traffic in the city, and Jthe Courier
grovels to the Trades’ Union movement. Eggs
is riz.
As an amendment to Mr. Thompson’s
motion in favour of adopting new rules to check
disorder in the N.S.W. Assembly, Mr. Hassall
gave notice of a proposal that there should be
erected at Parliament Houses a 24-ft, prize-ring
to enable members to settle differences arising in
debate.
At the close of a large political meeting
at Stockton, N.S.W., the other Saturday night,
cheers for the Queen were ineffectually called for.
Hardly a cheer could be raised from the thousand
persons present—in fact the groans predominated.
Both the local and the Sydney press are silent on
the subject.
At the dinner of the eight hours’ men at
Brisbane, the toast of ‘‘The Day we Celebrate”
was substituted for her Gracious and his Excel-
lency and all the foreign potentates, who were not
mentioned at all; but the demand for “ three
oheers for the Federated Eepublio of Australasia"
brought down the house,
The N.S.W. Protectionist party have
tempted Hon. Edmund Barton in every possible way
to leave his seat in the Upper House and enter the
Assembly, bub ‘ ‘ Toby ”is not yet willing. G. R.
Dlbbs doesn’t like the idea of Mr. Barton entering
the Assembly, as he is afraid the latter gentleman
would at once be chosen as the Proteotionist
leader.
Said Delegate Weillant at the Australian
Trades Union Congress “ Buggies and carriages
come out here from America that had been made
in the penitentiaries of the States. A federated
tariff was of the greatest importance, and if they
could decide that question, the federation of the
whole of the colonies would become a certainty."
(Cheers.)
Dear Bulletin,— M‘llwraith accepted his
knightship as a crushing reply to the Griffith
party's assertion, after the steel-rails fizzle, that
he was known at the Colonial Office as a switdler
and a scoundrel. Griffith cook his knightship
because he was an Imperialist and a snob at
heart. There is a difference between them.—
Yours, Bananaman.
Dear Bulletin, —The throwing down and
smashing of the statues in Fitzroy Gardens wants
a word of explanation. Melbourne workmen,
who are willing to work and oan’t get work, and
so have to see their wives and children pincbir g
and starving, can’t for the world make out what
the Government means by getting out statues
from England at the expense of the tax payers ?
A Man out on Work.
“If we bad to deal with gentlemen, the
Government would know what 'to do,” said
Parke?, in the N.S.W. Assembly, the other day.
We doubt it. Parkes never did deal with gentle-
men ; he hasn’t had any experience that way.
And gentlemen never did deal much with Parkes
—at least, the same gentleman never dealt with
him twice if he oonld help it
Premier Griffith s manifesto Is a complete
fizzle. Proffers no programme whatever. The
word Land-tax does not odour In lb. This was the
condition of the supporo ot Dickson, the auctioneer
and ex-treasurer, hud the city land-sharks. The
word Protection does nob ooonr in it, and the
whole thing is so hopelessly tentative that BulcCck
and the importer’sringare pledged not to secede.
The “Royal Irish” constabulary are be-
coming disaffected with Balfour and Co. eroibn.
They refused to interfere with the soldiers who
broke out of the barracks, cheering for O’Brien,
and now, after a tussle with the Castle au
thorities, they carry the day, and put up a pic-
ture of Gladstone in the place of honour in the
Dublin barracks dining room. It was “removed”
no less than four times. All along the line, Co-
ercion is getting the jim-jams.
The enfant terrible of the N.S.W. Opposi-
tion is “ Jim" Toohey, member for South Sydney,
whose party seem to think he does them more
harm than good, and wish he would shift his
quarters to the Ministerial side of the House.
Last week he had a serious personal quarrel with
Mr. Dlbbs, who told him to go away and speak to
him no more. Later the same evening, Toohey
spoke at Granville, and told the audience that it
did not follow that if the N S.W. electors sent a
Protectionist majority to Parliament Dlbbs would
be Premier.
According to the Queenslander :—“ Henry
George says men cannot own land because they
did nob create it, and the Omaha World adds
that George therefore has no right to his head
beoause he did not make it. This relieves Henry
of a fearful responsibility.” That a man’s (head
is not his own, no one admits more fully than
Henry George himself. For years and years he
not only allowed the barber to reap and take his
crop of hair., but he actually paid him for doing it.
And now that he has grown, permanently bald,
George cultivates the brains inside his head, and
gives the world the benefit of the result for a mere
song.
Alexander Connor jumped out of the top-
storeF window of a Melbourne hash emporium one
day last week. The dootors think he’s mad, but
they don’t know what exbremes a poet will resort
to to dodge a six-foot landlady with a three-
months' bill.
The N.Y. Standard Bays of the Sydney
Morning Herald “ This paper meets every
demand for reform with the remark that ‘ it is too
much,’ and comments on every ooncession made
with the observation that ‘it is enough.’" Of the
Sydney Daily Telegraph it remarks“ The
other morning paper is inclined to be somewhat
piebald in its principles. . . . The creed of
the Telegraph seems to be * God is good, but the
devil’s not a bad sort, afber all.’ The Evening
News— poor thing !—has not yet ventured an
opinion, and unkind people say that it hasn’t got
one to venture." Pastor Jefferis is dismissed
summarily with : “ a successful land-specu-
lator, by-the-bye- who airily disposes of the whole
land-nationalisation question in five minutes' in-
solent and patronising twaddle, and straightway
proceeds to lecture his fiook on ‘ How to be merry
and wise!"’
Give Back the Land.
Who dares deride the poor man’s cry
For justice and for daily bread I
If such there be let him go by—-
In him the higher Christ is dead ;
But firm of purpose, heart and aim,
To right the wrong we take our stand,
And shout in Truth’s commanding name,
Give back the land I Give back the land !
Who fears to label rich men rogues
When Wealth lets Toil of hunger die,
And drives the poor, as less than dogs,
From their paternal homes ? Nob I |
The earth belongs unto the Lord ;
Why steed the bounty of His hand,
Ye robbers of the poor man’s board.
Give back the land! Give back the land ?
Who gave to titled wealth the land ?
That is not theirs no, not an inch !
'Twas gob by fraud or force of hand,
Then laws were made the theft to clinch j
Up, Scotland ! tear the lie to rags 1
Your birthright of the soil demand,
Are crofters less than grouse and stags ?
Give back the laud ! Give back the land j
What man would stand ignobly by,
Nor shoulder on with loud huzzas,
Truth’s struggling chariot wheels ? Not IS
For God is with the poor man's cause l
For Btill, outside the poor man’s gate,
The toilers empty-handed stand ;
Ye robbers of the poor's estate
Give back the land! Give back the land !
Glasgow.
ALEX. G. MURDOCH.


\ \\ \ \ m‘ 'll" *•
Michael Ochone Hoolihan, the
father of Patrick M'filhone Hooli-
han (afterwards St. Patrick), was
a native of Kilboggan, County
Ballybrandish, Ireland,
He married Bridget Arrah Na
Pogue M'Lish, who lived just
across the bog as you enter Kil-
boggan, the first house after you
pass M'Fadden’s pea nut-factory.
Eleven children were the fruit of this
Union. They ah a kept a | igj which they
educated to dig potatoes
So highly educated was this
pig that ho dug, not Only the po-
tatos of the Hoolihan’s, but those
of Hoolihan’s neighbours. It was
afterwards eold to defray the ex-
penses of young Patrick while
becoming a saint—which is our
only reason for mentioning this ,
pig at all..
The eldest of the family didn’
pan out well. He became a pro-
fessional Irishman of the Bouoi-
cault School, and bored audiences
by singing songs about one
*' Cushla Mavourneen,” Fortu-
nately, he died young.
/ /n
-
"-*A& V
ii i :— ym*,
Mulish M' Fad den Hoolihan,the
aext eldest child, adopted a pro-!
fession, and rose through his own
©ftorts to some eminence.
Mulvaney M‘Radish Hoolihan ran off to sea at the
«arly age of iorty-Sevea and became Cardinal o{ Corrub-
boree-Bha, an island of the Pacific. He was mistaken
for a boiled lobster, and went very well with anchovy
sauce. ~ ? 1) -_y ~
' * * * There was nothing
extraordinary about the infant/
Patrick M'Elhone Hoolihan—ex-
cepting, perhaps, his halo, which
he had worn from the very first.
But people got used to it after
awhile and thought no more about
it. His parents had him photo-
graphed in it 7
Later on it came in
handy as a teething-
ring.
In due course of time
the pig was sold, and
“ little Pat” was packed
off to school.
We have no record of
his evincing unusual
capabilj ties as a student
at this early period
Certain it ia he passed
through college, and
then looked about for
something to turn up.
Just when it occurred to
him to gq in for being a
proper out-an-out saint we
dPHt know. We know that
he did get a clean shave and
become a monk.
One day. after telling no end of beads, and
while uoing the block with peas in his sandals,
he suddenly discovered that he had a mission
jn the world.
This mission took the form of chicken-
cholera, which he introduced among the snakes
of his native land with very satisfactory results.
Which is why Irishmen go to Botany on the
17th of March and pitch quoits, drink soda-
water, listen to a “ spaich” by Dan O’Connor,
and perform other feats of strength and en-
durance.
Life of St. Patrick.


Death, the Old Anarchist.
"I HAVE CAKEN THE GRANDSIRE, THE SIRE IS IN MY GRASP E'EN NOW, BUT THE YOUTH I WILL LEAVE TO GATHER ME RIPE HARVEST OF BATTLE-REAPED LIVES, '


nTI n n T 7" T 130 These unsightly subcutaneous dis-
]) jLu Jul U AL Hi 0. colorations can be effectually eradi-
cated by the use of Clement's Frecklebane, and by no
i ther preparation. Harmless, safe, and effectual. Beware
of imitations which are useless. Sent post free on reoeipt of
2s. 10d.,N.5.W. penny stamps or P. 0.0, by P. M. Climbnts,
141 King-street, Newtown, Sydney, or from the City Agents*
W. H Soul & Co., Pitt-Btreet, Sydney.*
Sira Bernhardt's tiger died in her arms after eight hours
excruciating agony. We all have our fancies, and some have
even stranger ones than the renowned Sara. A few very
pretty niokknacks in china, and some charming washstand
sets have just been opened by Bray Brothers, 402 and 404
George-etreet.*
A Slioht Mistake. —lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective, was innocent. At the time the
constable arrested him, he was busy in his garden sprinkling
his flowers. After some conversation, the constable asked
him his name, and the person thinking he asked “wh»t is
the name of that?" meaning the liquid, replied 1 Detective
Soap.” Hence the arrest. Iho prisoner was discharged.
The S.M. remarked on the value of Detective Soap, and
said no doubt the insects and grubs were arrested in their
ravages on the flowers *
Study your own interest by uiing Femell'i Snow-whit*
patent Eolleb Floub, It U made in the colony from
the beet oolonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
Society
Sir William Jervois, Governor of New
Zealand, was recently interviewed by an irate
female with a big bustle, who said, “You are Sir
William Jervois, are you not?” H. K. admitted the
liability. “ And you are G overnor of Noo Zealand,
haintyou?" TheGuv. gaveinhewas. “Then,"said
sbe, “Icometoarsk your honor to gib my hus
band harrested. He s gone horf with another
woman, and left me with eight children to per-
vide fur." The Governor said it was a hard casp,
but sbe had came to the wrong shop. “ Well, if
you can’t harresb him,” she said, “I want you to
git me a divorce, and then I can git another man
to keep me.” The Governor wa3 sorry, but that
was also beyond his powers “ Can't harrest me
hiisband or get me a divorce, and you call your-
self Governor of Noo Zealand 1 Well, 1 dunno
whatever you’re good for, then, and I wish you
good mornin’.” With that Bhe turned her bustle
indignantly on his Excellency, and retired.
* # *
There has been a baby-show at Too-
woomba, and consequently half the mothers in
town are not on borrowing terms with each other.
Five cherubs waltzed off with prizes, and the un-
bappy judge feelingly rentarked to
the enraged and slighted matrons
who had no prizes that they had
better go away and try and do
better next time. This consolation
was received with a concentrated
glare of withering scorn, and as the
unsuccessful mothers filed out into
the sunlight such remarks as
“Freckled brat" and “Sore-nosed
imp ” wafted gently down the balmy
air. Consequently up Toowoomba
way the spectacle of two respect-
able matrons snorting at one another
in the main street is as common as
flirt.
* * *
A draper’s assistant, in pour-
ing out his woes per the S.M.
Herald, refers to his fellow-
workers as “ ladies and gentle-
men,” “ sales-ladies,” and so on.
The titles are simply absurd and
out of place. Shop-aßsistants are not
“ladies" or “gentlemen" as the
term is at present accepted, and we
fail to see why they wish to be
considered so. Is the girl at the
ribbon-oounter ashamed of being a
woman? Is the youth in the shirt-
department appalled that we should
call him a man ? As citizens of the
coming Republic they should rather
fiercely resent the Interference
which classes honest toilers with
the drones and butterflies, who,
under the names of “lady" and
“ gentleman," idly prey and fatten
on society.
• » *
The Victorian Postmaster-
General has sent an order to Scot-
land for a supplementary peal of
bells to be placed in the new clock-
tower in the General Post-Office.
The set is to automatically produce
national airs. Among these we
notice, under the head, we suppose,
of national airs of England, “God
bless the Prince of Wales.” There
seems to be a widespread impression
among “ loyalists” that Providence
is not particularly favourable to
“ Tummy,” and that it Is necessary
to keep his name well in front or
he might be treated like a demnition
common person. We see no other
reason for including that old hurdy-
gurdy hymn in a list of National
Airs, Ireland is not treated much
better. “ The Harp that once,”
&c., is well enough as far as it
goes, but why couldn't they have
had in addition “ The Wearln’ of
the Green," “ The White Cockade,”
and a few other tunes of the sort
with some spirit in them ? It might
not have been a bad idea to get a
set of bells that would have played “ The Wearln'
of the Green" and “ We'll kick King William
before us," to be followed immediately by “ Boyne
Water" and “ Crdpples Lie Down.” This would
have been impartial and lively and calculated to.
keep the police from dying of fatty degeneration
of the feet. But what is the use of suggesting
ideas to oysters!
* * *
In Melbourne everybody who Is anybody
with daughters feels hurt that their own particu-
lar beauties were not selected to act as brides-
maids at the reoent Government House wedding
presided over by dear Lady Looh, It has been re-
marked, by the way, that His Excellency was not
quite so profuse in his expenditure on tMs oc-
casion, notwithstanding his recent run of luck in
Broken Hill and Midas shares, as he is when
spending the money ot Victorian taxpayers in
Jubilee rejoicings. Although Government House
was the scene of the festivities, dear Lady Loch
kindly omitted to take charge of the bridesmaids,
or provide conveyance for them from church, but
left two of them shivering in the rain in the
church porch, to find their„way to their destina-
tion as best they could.
* * *
Two young and lovely creatures, both
desperately mashed on one young man, met re-
cently on horseback in the Hutt-road, near Wel-
lington (N.Z.). When they saw each other ap-
proach they called out “Old cat!" simultaneously,
and whipped their steads to the charge, eaoh
determined to roll her rival in the dust under her
horse’s feet or perish in the attempt. In the
scene that ensued we did not take a hand, but
when the collision took place the sunshine was
darkened with a cloud of dust; two horses and
two Amazons tried to climb over each other’s
heads, while shrill shrieks, treble curses, flying
hats, and emancipated back hair obscured
the scenery. When the battle was at
Its height the Hutt tram came up from
the racecourse and ranged alongside, and the
metalllcians took out their note-books and be-
gan to bBt on the little ’un with the bald head or
the stout one with the torn habit and the skinny
limbs as their fancy led them. When the engine-
driver blew the whistle of the engine to try and
stop the combat their horses took fright and
bolted so suddenly that they both fell off together
on the dusty road and fainted right away. Then
the male passengers rushed out of the tram and
50 flasks of brandy for their resuscitation flashed
forth. By and bye, they came to and were lifted
into the tram and taken baok to the city on wheels.
Their horses got home before them,
# * *
There is a great scandal in on 9 of the
Aust'alias, An exalted personage has succumbed
to the large wiles of a li title barmaid.
• * *
They are inclpiating a National Art
Gallery in Brisbane.
# # #
Cash on the nail is the motto at Lady
Loftus’s perfumery-shop in London.
*, * #
The oldest Victorian colonist is “an
elderly widowlady ” (to quote a gallant p 5 ragraphiot
in the Melbourne Age) named Agnes Smith. She
has just turned sweet 105, and her address till
lately was the Benevolent Asylum, Efforts were
MRS. GORDON- BAILLIE.
made to provide her with a home outside this
well-meaning, but not too gay and lively, institu-
tion, and she is now wild with glca. Some charit-
able people would have bought her a small cot-
tage, but they eventually thought it hotter not to
do so. There are so many fortune-hunters about.
* * *
Line from an obituary lyric in a Melbourne
paper
She was not threa months married and she had no wish to
live.
We may remark—though it does not seem neces-
sary—that the obituary was inserted by the
mother of the deceased—that is to say by the
mother-in-law of her husband.
•. * *
A mortuary ad. in Melbourne Age winds
up thus : “A dutiful and obedient daughter, an
affectionate sister, a faithful friend, a devoted
mother, a consistent Christian.'’ This al3o is plainly
an epitaph by a sweet mother-in-law. Observe,
there’s no allusion whatever to the afflicted
hubby. She was “a dutiful and obedient
daughter ’’—and that’s where all the trouble
comes in !
• * *
It is not often that an editor is appreciated
in his own country. Mr. John Little, who left the
Lancefield Mercury the other day to “accept a
position on the editorial staff" of that powerful
journal, the Rkdfbrn Times, which Is published
somewhere in the neighbourhood of Sydney, is a
dazzling exception to most other whilom country
scribes in .this respect. Before he left Lancefield
he was presented with a gold watch and chain
and diamond pin, There now! The question
that would be agitating our minds if such a
weirdly improbable thing wera to happen to us
would b 8 : How muoh will they fetch 1 We re-
mambar that when we were rapidly retiring from
the command of a Queensland country paper, we
had to get under the seat of the coach to escape
the presants that were showered upon us. Even
than our hat was stove in with a brick, and one
enthusiastic admirer of ours wanted badly to get
into the coach to give us a black eye to remember
him by. It is these graceful lltble attentions that
cheer the heart of the journalist and encourage
him to go joyfully on his way.
# * *
A man has just been “taken from the
oouaty gaol ” in Queensland who has been in
Australia 67 years, 57 of whioh he has spent in
prison i He is one of the men sentenced to death
for the murder of Warder Price, of the Williams-
town (Vic.) Gaol, but whose sentence was com-
muted to 15 years. He is now en tramp for the
Beautiful Harbour, where he first landed as a
bondsman,
* # #
A N.Z. paper remarks, apropos of the
“ well-connected " nuisance, that “the confidence
which many people repose in a well-dressed man
who claims to be the happy recipient of a large
income from some unspecified source, continues
unabated.” Quite true. The class of sassiety
they reckon to prey upon would weloome the
Devil himself if he wore an eyeglass, large checks,
and carried a coroneted carpet-bag.
* * *
A London paper states that Albert Ed-
ward was gazing upon a snack at a high-toned
London hotel recently—Tummy is a light feeder,
and he simply orders victuals and looks at them
for half-an-hour, and then tells the landlord to
“ charge it ” and goes away—when a long, dingy-
looking man, who bad been hovering round him
for sons time, sidled gently up, and asked hi m,
apologetically, it he moved in good society. The
badly-staggered Prince said he did, sometimes
“ Have you ever dined with the Queen ?—that's
what I mean by goad Booiety.” “ I have, indeed ;
very often,” said the Heir-Apparent, huskily.
“Well, then, you're the very man I want. I'm
the correspondent of a Boston soolety paper, and
I’ll make it worth yoor while to tell the truth.
Now, looky here,” and the voice of the dismal
stranger sank to a hiss, and his ears flapped with
excitement, “is it true that the Queen’s bald i”
He produced a £o note ai he spake, but Wales
didn’t take it. It was the only case on record of
a Guelph refusing ready cash.
* * *
There is considerable though smothered
excitement in certain fashionable Brisbane circles
concerning a well-known society lady who is said
to possess a rudimentary tail an inoh and a half
long. This organ is fixed to the end of her spine
in the usual way, and has belonged to her since
! infancy. The tail was kept for years as a family
! Becret, but in an evil moment she revealed it to a
female friend under a solemn pledge of. eternal
secresy, and the friend told her husband and he
mentioned It to some one else. And now people
are at a loss to know whether they should present
their congratulations or whether they should
condole There is no precedent to go upon, and
so they hold aloof, and meanwhile the afflicted
owner sits upon her tall and weeps,
• * •
Dr. Goodall, of the Queensland emigrant
ship Bulimba, over which there is quite a storm
just now says that he does not object to a saloon
passenger playing the pianoforte,, but he does to a
second or third officer for fear he might corrupt
the morals of the single girls by playing “ indeli-
cate airs of the music hall type.” Emigrant*
ship-dootors are always very godly or very giddy.
At one pole is dear old oonvict-ship-surgeon Reid,
who, in 1822, published his celebrated “ Voyage
to Botany Bay ” with a 26-page “ essay on seduc-
tion "at the end of it; at the other is the pious
youth, fresh from the Dublin Medical School, who,
at Maryborough, Q„ , some years ago took from
his ship to his hotel six of the best-looking emi-
grant girls.
# * •
The proprietor of the Oxford Hotel,,
Sydney, advertised for an assistant boots, one day
last week, £1 a week and board. He had over
100 applicants, many of them respectably-dressed,
well-eduoated men t
• * #
An alleged lady complains in Melbourne
Punch that at last FlemiDgton races a young
swell who had evidently forgotten his braces was
so unmannerly, not to say indelioate, as to walk
up and down past the grand-stand holding his
trousers up The fashionist adds that he “ would
not have done so had his wife or sisters been in>
the grand stand.” This is to say he would have
allowed the—— but the notion is absurd.
• •
At intervals on each side of the Melbourne
tramway-lines there are iron reoeptaoles called
“orderly bins” into which dirt gathered out
of the grooves during the day is deposited. They
look not unlike pillar-boxes. A few evenings ago
a young man—evidently a new arrival in the city
and none the better for the liquor he had imbibed
in it—came swaying down the street, and stopped
before one of these erections, Then he dre w a
letter out of his pooket and dropped it into the
bin. “Thash done," he muttered, swaying off
again ; “ she won’t shay I didn’t write this time.
Thash one troublesh off mindsh, anyway,” If
“she” ever gets the letter that young man will
have a surprise in store for him, we think.
« * *
Lord Yalletort, son of the Karl of Mount-
Edgecumbe, never speaks to anybody. This is a
sensible youth for two reasons. The thing called
“ sassiety ” in the colonies is not worth talking to;
and, secondly, the titled Englishmen who visit
Australia are not worth listening to.
* * *
Sir James Lorlmer, Victorian Minister of
Battle and Sudden Death, has created a new mili-
tary rank —that of lieutenant-commander. It
was time. Melbourne bristles with colonels.
Now that Sir James has got his hand in, ha will
probably—unless he is chained up and gagged in
time —tear along on his track of glory till Lord
High Admirals and Field Marshals are as common
as chicken-lifters.
* * *
When young ladies advertise in the papers
why don’t they say what they mean, and all they
mean ? It would make matters clearer, and save
future expense. For instance, here is a kind of
advertisement which appears every day :—“Lady,
young, desires engagement as housekeeper to
widower." It would not have coat muoh more to
have added—“ Photographs exchanged." And
see what a difference it would make 1
* * •
A respected merchant of Melbourne, whose
bulky form and fine iron-grey whiskers may fre-
quently be seen together ab mt the Exchange, had
a game put up on him the other morning whioh,
for malice aforethought, custednesa and deep dark
aggravation, is unparalleled by any instance men-
tioned in history. He was leaving his suburban
residence to catch the 10.20 train for the city on
the morning mentioned, when, on opening the
hall-door, a sight presented itself which froze his
young blood, and upended his hair like bristles on
the back of the fretful old bore ; for there on the
floor of the porch, sporting in the'sunshiie, lay a
baby in a shirt-box —a very yoong baby with a
very bald head, and if kicked up its heels, and
crowed in a manner which showed that it quite
concurred in the arrangement if not a party thereto.
On the breast of the babe was pinned a notice,
call i ng upon the respected merchant to. take his child
and be kind to it, and heaven would forgive him.
To describe the manner in which the gentleman’s
angry passions rose and boiled over the edges
would take up too much of our valuable space ;
suffice it to say that in two seconds he had that box
and its contents on the dining-room table and was
roaring for the servants and the police, and the
permanent artillery, and demanding in imperious
tones if a man was a wet-nurse to have every-
body’s wall-eyed, red headed infants thrust upon
his hands. At this stage the baby entered its
protest with the force and volubility of a trom-
bone, and all the residents and visitors poured
into the room to make enquiries as to who had
been trodden on. Foremost amongst these was
the lady of the house, who had recsived the im-
pression that the place was on fire and her hus-
band was being slain by a daylight robber.
“ Good Heavens, George! what are you doing
with Tilly?” she gasped, and, snatching the
child out of the box, she proceeded to
hush it with energetic bangs on the back and
inelegant babble. *‘ Tilly 1" gasped George, with
the look of a man who is just recovering from
the kick of a cart horse, and then the thought
that he had been sold suggested itself to him, and
he looked round for somebody to kill on the im-
pulse of the moment. The babe was his lawful
and well-beloved daughter, who had found her
way into the family a few weeks previously
and whom he had failed to recognise in oonse-
quence of the shock to his nervous system, and
her marked resemblance to all the babies of her
age. There were staging in the house at the time
three impish female servants, two frivolous young
ladies, and a youthful male relative of the mer-
chant’s ; if any person or persons can point out
which of these six perpetrated the cruel hoax,
they will receive a reward of five pounds on ap-
plication at George’s oflice.
* * •
“How many, doctor l” anxiously queried
the housefather at the foot of the stairs. “Twins
and a half,” answered the doctor, wishing to
break it to him gently.
* * *
A young woman in one of the Melbourne
hospitals had both her legs amputated at the
knee some time ago. She, at least, will be able
to keep on a level with the fashionable ball-
costume of the age.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —And in the week has
passed from our pigmy minority to that vast
majority which slowly but surely absorbs all
genial, social, big-hearted Pat Patrick j]


Everybody saya—and what everybody says must be true—
that Pemell a Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.*
Everybody should use Pemell's latest, best Snow-white
Patenx Rqvws« Ffcou®. It Is the greatest success of the
age.
When next you bake try Pennell's Snow-white Roller
Floußi and your bread will be as white as snow.
Ilelghran, the onoe kiag of ths fat-c»ttle
rade, the owner of Mormon, Exile, Fire-
works, Lamplighter, and other celebrities —ho
who, when the writer came to N.S. Wales in
1866, was said to own every fat beast on the road
between Bourke and Melbourne. A native of
Campbelltown, who, with few advantages,
carved for himself three fortunes, to be wrested
from him by men more astute. A lover of sport
and good company, a trusty friend, and one whom
altered fortunes changed but little. In all parts
of Australia are men who, while reading this, will
remember with a kindly sentiment the big, brave-
hearted Pat, whose troubles, though they made
hijn less able, never made him one whit less wil-
ling to help his brothers in distress. May he rest
in peace,—E.R.
* * *
Bishop Goe says that the people of Vic-
toria don’t need Sunday trains, because they
already have as much pleasure as is desirable or
good for them. Too much holiday, he thinks, is
underminirg the morals of the masses. But as
floe is also prepared to take his oath that the
Lord made the world in six days and rested the
seventh day (which Goe doesn't keep holy, by the
way), we should recommend Victorians to take
their usual whack of pomps and vanities without
paying any attention to his opinion. What the
dickens should a sour-faced Bishop, who never
did a day’s real productive work, understand
About holiday and pleasure!
* • *
The Russian Grand Duke will soon have
an Imperial summons to St. Petersburg. The un-
happy noble is quite “gone" on Nellie Stewart.
Nellie is very sorry, but can’t help it.
* * *
The Queen gave the fmishirg touch to her
Jubilee year by making a gracious communication
to the Courb Newsman to the effect that Prin-
cess Beatrice must be described in print as “ Prin
cess Beatrice. Princess Henry of Battenberg, with
a comma between them, and the Beoond half not
put in brackets.” —
Certain English papers g *avely stated
that Prince Albert Victor —of the foolish face and
champagne-bottle shoulders —will “probably”
ride his royal papa’s horse in the Liverpool Grand
National. An unusually large Tory lie intended
to delude the public into accepting this miserable
young Victor as a roaring, reckless character,
“ with any amount of John Bull courage, by
Jove I—'awful plucky feller, doncherkoow." A
preposterous lie, on the face of it, but good enough
for reproduction by most of our Australian papers.
Which reminds us we have seen it stated that
Prinoe Christian’s sons (the Queen’s grandsons)
would certainly play for Cambridge in the Univer-
sity cricket match ; but they never have played
and never will. Germans sre no real good at any
manly sport, except fencing, in wbioh a very
small majority of Btudents, with no beauty to
lose, hack each others’ faces. But cricket !it
isn’t bred in their bone. Once we left a crioket-
bat in the train at Cologne. Subsequently it was
brought into the large public waiting-rcom by an
intelligent porter, who held it aloft and enquired
for the owner of that “ walking stiok " (spatzicr
■stock). How the few Englishmen present did
roar!
Young Lord Leveson (pronounced Lervson,
if you please, ladieß), son and heir of Karl Gran-
ville, has caused his noble Pa much anxiety by
swallowing half-a-crown :
The Democrat splashed by the mud of a
passing phaeton is wrong, nowadays, in envying
the lady who is driving. The phaeton carries its
owner on a round of fruitless visits to the registry-
offices. The latest development of the servant
trouble Is seen in an advertisement of a Bridget,
who requests to be supplied with “a place”
where “no children are kept.” This is bard on
those simple young couples who consider the
household incomplete without a little Johnny.
The present attitude of the “slavey” will do
more to settle the social problem than all the
theories of the late Mr. Malthus, for, after all
what is home without a servant ?
• • *
A Sydney R.C. priest told his congrega-
tion last week that he knew an old cobbler on the
shores of the Beautiful Harbour who, for years,
” to be blind and to tell fortunes— ab
half guinea fees—but who only made his own for-
I ana, and cleared out of Sydney the other day,
een sighted and worth thousands of ooin in hard
ash.
• * *
Mrs. Cross, of Melbourne, wants to be
eparated from her husband because he thumps
ter with hob-nailed boots and fire-irons. For,
pite of Scriptural dictum, this female cannot bear
ler Cross patiently.
* * *
It Is the avowed policy of the New Zea-
and Times to make football a popular game for
jirls. This would certainly be an excellent means
)f arranging matches.
* * *
It was a black, sloppy night in Sydney.
The divinely-endowed singer Wilhlemina Skeggs
bad for two long hours held a brilliant and
distinguished audienoe in a state of soulful intoxt-
cation. Outside, the street-lamps threw their
awful mystic reflection in the spectral depths of
the mud-slime on the flags ; the rain poured down
with a ceaseless, wearying monotony—the rain on
this occasion was very wet rain—the cabs huddled
together in sympathy on the rank, and the police-
man kept his post beneath the shelter ot the most
water-proof verandah on his beat. Down the
Pactolian stair-case, in the blaze of gaslight, rust-
ling in silks and flashing with jewels, their opera-
cloaks trimmed with ermine, their ambrosial
heads crowned with tiaras of diamonds, swept in
all their stately beauty Mrs. Melchlsidec and her
decollette daughters, princesses of the Potts Point
snobocraoy, the first of all the radiant gathering
to venture out into tbe night and the darkness.
A little urchin munched a saveloy in a dark
comer the while he was being saturated by the
drops of a half-friendly port'oo. The mother of
the lovely caravan looked out into the rain. She
was a considerably haughty individual. Her hus-
band held a high social and political position in
the land* She was rich 5 she ruled society ; she
“MAl MARY WON'T LET ME HAVE THE PRETTY BOX YOUR HAIR GAME IN!
BOO-HOO.”
had danced ab Innumerable Government House
balls with Governors too considerable In number to
speak of. She kept a rare and radiant carriage
did this haughty creature, in whose patrician
veins flowed the real, the genuine sang azul and
baal gammon. The wet urchin smelt a copper in
the air. He saw the lady’s hesitation and flew to
the succour of a woman in distress. “ Call Mrs.
Melohisidec’s carriage,” said the lady in her dulcet
tones. “ Lend’s yer umbreller!" replied the
urchin. Two umbrellas were produced. Un-
willing to make ladies iealous, he annexed both.
Then out into the rain and the darkness wandered
he, yelling at the top of his stentorian voice,
“ Mrs. Melchisidec’s cab ; Mrs. Melchisidec’s
cab! ’ Four-and-twenty basses and baTitone3 and
tenors belonging to four-and-twenty cabmen, and
100 boys in 100 dark dry corners, took up the eerie
cry and bellowed forth into the vasty deep of
night, “ Mrs. Melchisidec’s cab ! Mrs. Melohisi-
deo’s cab I” “No! No!” cried the aristocratic
creature, in tones of agony; “ carriage . car-
riage /” “ What number !” said the first cabman.
“What number?” said the second and the third,
and the fourth, down, down through the serried
ranks bill it reached the 21th cabby, a young man of
modest aspect with a cracked tenor, and he piped
querulously, * ’ What number ? ” and 100 boys from
100 dark, dry corners echoed, “ What number? ”
“ What number ? ” said the boy at the top of his
lungs, stalking importantly down the pavement
in the pouring rain beneath the shelter of the two
umbrellas, and placidly munching his saveloy be-
tween the intervals cf frantic-voiced inquiry for
Mrs. Melcbisideo’s cab. This time the lovely
dame made herself understood. “ No! carriage !"
“No. carriage l" yelled the boy. “No, car-
riage ! ” shrieked the cabman with the cracked
tenor, and 100 boys from 100 dark, dry corners
echoed the talismanio utterance. On, od, it went;
down, down the steaming file until it died away
and was finally lost in the cavernous stomaoh of
the night, Jast then the glittering equipage
flashed into the gaslight, and the radiant and
beautiful maidens and their high-toned and
haughty mamma were whirled into the next day,
and sank to rest in the patrician suburb of Potts
Point.
• * *
It is now the proper caper to refer to the
Governor ol New South Wales as poor dear Lord
Carington. “ Dear ”is good, if it refers to his
salary.
* * *
It is now considered fashionable for men
to wear large red-coral buttons on their dress
waistcoats.
* * *
Lidy Carington is going to Moss Yale for
a couple of months.
* * w
“ Comic ” literature has found its lowest
level in Melbourne. The looal Punch of last
week was advertised as an especially bright num-
ber, “ containing full particulars of the marriage
of Mis 3 Heymann (governess in the Loch family),
and an authcntie list of the bridal gifts." For
exquisite humour such a line as “ Mrs. Jones, a
plated teapot ” wants a lob of beating.
* * *
Murrikan girls are going It worse than
ever. Miss Garner, of New York, is about to
swap away £60,000 a year for the title of Countess
of Chesterfield, and the Due Decazes will intro-
duce a sewing-machine into his coat-of-arms by
marrying Miss Singer. He gets about six figures,
and she goes right out for a due.
* * *
Dear Bulletin,— The autumn racing at
tviemlngton is always a poor advertisement for
dressmakers, The men who planned the raoes
probably did so with a recollection of the past
Cup-bills. During the transition-stage season
one is uncertain whether to appear as a brilliant
butterfly or a homely grub in a furred mantle,
while a compromise is often unique rather than
effective. On the first day of the races a most
singular gown (only the canaille now use the
word dress) was worn by a lady of the Govern-
ment House party, not one of the very vioe-royaJ,
but almost all but. The gown was white, with a
large salmon-silk affair —which a rude man called
paniers—at the back. The costume locked like a
dish of shrimps on a white table-cloth. Her escort
was an aide-de-camp, with hiß socks down, or
perhaps they were gaiters. Lady Loch always
looks queenly—the word is used in a poetic sense,
and is intended for a compliment—except when
she appears in evening-dress. Then the upper
storey of |the frame-work upon whioh beauty is
built is perhaps too palpable to be as charming as
Lady Merino or Miss M‘Money, of Toorak, affect
to believe.— Moorabinda.
* * •
A new form of teapot which is fast comic g
into favour in fashionable circles is made of
wrought-iron and painted white outside. When
a new “ slavey” comes to the house she, of course,
drops the teapot by way of initiating the missus
into her ways, and her emotions when it doesn't
break range all the Way from amazement up to
paralysis or more. Then she bangs it with a
hammer, and drops bricks on it, and jumps on it,
and rebounds off it, and still the vessel re-
mains uninjured. Generali" He slwey, in
a house where there iA An unbreakable
teapot, pines away and dies, and when
she has dropped into the grave her mother
puts a little tombstone above her with an
inscription stating that she outlived her useful-
ness and departed oheerfully to drop her harp and
see if it would oracb. But sha is a valuable glr
while she lasts, and when she is gons another
happy maid comes along to wilt gradually and
painfully with a teapot that won't smash preying
on her damaged cheek. She gets spirit-broken
and can be made to work 16 hours a day without
complaining, and then at last she also bursts her
earthly crust and joins the seraphim. It is cal-
culated that one teapot w,ill outlive ten slaveys,
and will fight hard with the eleventh. No house-
hold is complete without one.
* * *
“ ’Tis love that makes the world go
round ” —but it’s the Divorce Court that makes
the world get square again.
•c * #
Why doesn’t Curator Moore, of Sydney,
see that some of the seats in his beautiful upper
Botanic Gardens are placed beneath shade ? Is
the Curator still as rnuoh afraid of married men
hugging and kissing their wives beneath the
foliage as he was on the memorable occasion,
some years ago, when he sought to demonstrate
in the police court the Immooreality of suoh pro-
ceedings ?
• • •
A most enjoyable ball was given on Wed-
nesday (March 7) by Mr. and Mrs Louis Aarons,
at Needs’ rooms, Sydney, at which a large number
of guests were present. The gathering was in-
tended as a farewell to Mr. Aaronp, junr., who is
leaving for Edinburgh, where he intends pursuing
the study cf medicine.
Brisbane Codrier, “ desires to speak with
all reverence of dignities, but fails to see in the
character of the Prince of Wales any compelling
call on our gratitude.” HerriDgp, however; remain
as before.
Apology from a South African paper
“ I, the undersigned, A. C. du Pleseis, retract
hereby everything I have said against the inno-
cent Mr. G. B. Bezuidenhout, calling myself an
infamous liar, and striking my mouth, with the
exclamation, ‘You mendacious mouth; vhy do
you lie sa? I declare further that I know no-
thing against the character cf Mr. G. P. Bezuiden «
hout. I call my self, besides, a genuine liar of the
first-cla?s. —(Bigned) A. C. du Flessis,’-’
A shoit and humble annal comes from
Singleton (N.S.W.) unique in its sweet simpli-
city. There was to be a ccrroboree in that sun-
baked township, and the cost to .view ib was the
humble necessary threepenny-bit, During the
day the treasurer and his Mary went round Bell-
irg greasy brick-coloured cards of admission to
whomsoever had the wherewithal. After they
had disposed of a good many they retired to their
hotel for refreshment. The anecdote ends right
here. P.S.—The ccrroboree didn’t eventuate.
Dear Bulletin, — I am a schoolteacher In
an outlandish district in N.S.W,, and am, conse]
quently, bossed by Mr Fuel-saver Inglis, ar d, ap-
parently, by all his satellites also, right down to
the cilice-hoy. Durirg Centennial week 1 re-
ceived the following little memo, from a school
attendance cfficer, which will serve to illustrate
the position
You must either collect all the fees owing at your school
at once, or show cause why your apparent neglect of duty
should not he reported to.the Minister.
Now, I have dene my level best to get In these
game fees by Issuing monthly accounts to default-
ing parentp, and by seeing them personally and
appealing to their finer feelings, if they have any,
and the exalted school-attendarcs officer and the
district inspector were both acquainted with the
fact. But the heavy fathers of ihe district were
perfectly well aware that I had no earthly means
of enforcirg payment, so they treated me with
derision. One brawny ruffian eaid, not to put too
fine a point upon it, that he “ would knock the
blarsted stuffing out of me.” and reached for my
hair, and it was only after aO minutes’ general ex-
citement, in the course of which the grass wastorn
up in all directions, that I brought him down with
a clip under the ear. Eut for this lucky hit I
would have been a bruisrd and battered object,
and 'not fit to write to you. Another defaulter
told me to go to coloured Hades, and the rest
mostly seemed to agree with him and a3ked me to
start for the same place. In short, I found that
the N.S.W. Public Induction Department had
appointed me £ s bum-bailiff without a bailiff s
powers, and it seems to me that if the Government
wants the fees so badly that the local intellect-
developer and ’^d-hasher must spend all bis spare
time collecting them, they should erect cattle and
pig yards, poultry coops, produce stores, and
timber yards in connection with every country
school, so that the spreader of knowledge could
seize upon any portable properly belonging to the
Insolvent ancestors of the pupils and turn the
same into cash, with a reasonable commission on
all Bales effected, Unless this is done it is useless
for the teacher to act the parb of stage-thunder
for the Government, and shake the empty vessel
of his wrath at the publtc. My instructions were
to demand all sums exceeding ss, and to threaten
legal proceedings against everybody who didn’t
pay. Nobody paid ; everybody told me to go to
the place already hinted at, and nobody took any
“ proceedings.” I had no power to proceed, and
the school-attendance officer wouldn’t. It is his
duty to collect the money, but, as he can’t get ib,
the Department throw the burden of his laziness
and incompetence upon a forlorn individual who
has all the rising generation for miles round to
spank, and when he fails to collect, without any
authority to hick him, the money which the
proper cfficer is unable to get in in spite of his
power to summon and distrain and all the rest of
it, he is “ reported to the Minister.” I maintain
that the sohool-attendance-offioer is inferior to the
teacher; for one thing I never heard of any
teacher being promoted to bean attendance officer
as a reward for good conduct, and for another the
bum-bailiff of the service is nob neoessarily a man
of either brains or education, and the teacher re-
quires both; and yet, under Tiger Inglis’s regime ,
the lower offic'r is allowed to wiite insolent
letters to teachers and threaten them with
penalties unless they perform without pay the
work which he is appointed and paid to do
himself. So far, I have not succeeded in getting
in any outstanding fees, and other teachers of my
acquaintance have had Ihe same ill-lack. The
only promise of better times which has appeared
up to date is embodied in the following letter,
which one of them received last week. I have
the original, and guarantee its genuineness
Deer Sur,—As i now sees that you ruDS a risk by me not
payen them schoole teas i will tell you what i will do. You
can taike my old bally-fased Cow and sell her, and if so he as
anythink is over of coarse you can hand it hack to me.
wood sell her myself but my credditers wood come down on
me for the munny if i did so and the only way i can see fore
you to get the munny out of me and save yourself from
geting sacked is fore you too taike the Cow and sell her your-
self. You can keeps her in the playground and tell the
children she his fore sail, i wood not do this fore enny other
teecher what has bean here but you have bean so good too
my children and got them on so well especiely John that i
realy cannot sea you suffer threw me what ever incon-
venyenee it might cause me. Hopping you will excuese me
fore being in a Scottwith you when you furst come round,—-i
remaine, yours sincearely.
If the Government hankers after that cow ib can
have It,—Yours See,, A Teacher,
Attend l Auatraly’s Tory dailies,
Who do things circumspectly,
A matter vital is Trixy’s title.
So eet it up correctly,
A comma shove, as shown above,
'Twlxt r ame3 of wife and maiden.
The usual brackets cause royal rackets.
Yours truly, Douglas Sladen.
'Twas rumoured ab Mayfair,
And all the clubs in town,
That Granville's hungry heir
Had swallowed half-a-crown.
The queen upon her throne
In tears was like to drown—
She could but sadly moan
He’s swallowed half-a-orown ! ”
Poor Bertie 'twixb bis sobs
(He could not gulp ’em down)
Asked: “ Tanner and two bobs,
Or simply half-a-crown ? ”
The peeler on his beat
At servant girls would frown,
And plaintively repeat—
“ Lord swallowed half-a-crown."
Plump Mistress Parvenu,
In gorgeous Paris gown,
Hoped “ that it was a new—
A dean and bright half-crown."
A level-headed lad
Cried—“ Crikey ! What a clown 1
He must be jolly mad
At losing half-a-crown."
Poor starving hunemployed,
Who couldn’t raise a “ brown,”
Thought, “ We've an aching void
Where he has half-a-crown."
Lord Leveeon for all time
Will wallow in renown
(No other word will rhyme
Worse luck ! with half-a-crown.)


m
Sydney, N.S.W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Marshall Brothers,
Gentlemen, —Not feeling well, I procured some
of Marshall’s “ Tonic Nervine,” haying been ad-
yieed to take it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of its grand staying and strengthening properties.
Yours very truly,
to
•sent
Ex-Champion Oarsman of the World.
Thursday, March 22.
AT ROOMS. AT 12 O CLOCK.
Jentral City Property.
Shops and Offices
LITTLE COLLUNS-STREfcT EAST.
Within a few Doors of Swanston-Btreeb.
CJ. and T. HAM (in conjunction with John
• Buchan and Co.) are instructed to SELL,
as above,
Land having a frontage of
40ft. to LITTLE COLLINS-STREET EAST
by a depth of 59ft. 9in. along Sleight-lane to
right-of-way at the rear, on which are erected
THREE SHOPS and BACK STORE
of stone and brick, and occupied as shops,
store, and offices, let to tenants of long stand-
ing at comparatively nominal rentals, and are
capable of an early and great advance on pre-
sent return.
This very valuable properby is close to the inter-
section of Swanston and Little Collins streets, lust
above the District Court and opposite the magnifi-
cent premises now in course of ereotion for the
Australasian Temperance and General Mutual
Life Assurance Society, and are suitable for the
requirements of any business demanding a
thoroughly central city position.
For further particulars application can be made
at the offices of the auctioneers.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
COLD-WATER SOAP
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL.”
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 Clarence-street.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street
YISITORS pationising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms
will find all modern imrrovements, such as light
lofty, and Well-ventilated bedrooms, large publio
room, smoking-room, hot and oold baths, showei
and needle baths, passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. , [Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
modera'e. -
PETER WOODS, Owner and Proprietor.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRX &.H °'piPfiS,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
tbe host’ of other nrand« as
THE BEST QUALITY BR’AR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The un<s ersigned are prenared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS G LD~OHMIDT «fc 00.,
231 CLARBNCK-STREET.
GtBD. GiD.
We have Large Shipments of thi3 BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY
£5O £5O
Sheffield Handicap.
ATHLETIC - SPORTS
Will be held at
B 1 ayney,
ON
EASTER MONDAY
2nd APRIL, 1888.)
PROGRAMME:
SHEFFIELD HANDICAP of £so.—Distance,
150 yards. First prize, £35 ; second, £lO ;
third, £5. Nomination, 7s. 6d. ; Acceptance,
7s. 6d.
YOUTH’S RACE (Handicap).—For youths under
18 years of age. 100 yards First prize, £1;
second, 10s Entrance, Is.
THREE-LEGGED RACE.—Prize, £l. Distance,
100 yards. Entrance, Is.
DISTRICT HANDICAP of £5. 130 yards. Open
to residents within a radius of 10 miles from
Blayney. First prize, £1; second, £l. En-
trance is#
TILTING AT THE RING (on horseback). First
prize, £1; second, 10s. Entrance, Is.
BOYS’ RACE (Handicap).—For youths under 14
years Distance, 75 yards. First prize, 155,;
second, 53. Entrance, Is.
GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE, for half-an-honr. First
prize, £2 10s ; second, £1; third, 10s. En-
trance, 2s 6d.
PUBLICANS’ RaCE (Handicap).—For all publi-
cans within a radius of 30 miles. Prize, £5.
Distance, 120 yards. Entrance, 4s.
HOP, STEP, and JUMP.—First Prize, £1 10s. ;
second, 10s. Eabranoe, Is.
HURLING MATCH. (Special prize of £5 by Mr,
F. Mallon). Entrance, Is.
RULES AMD REGULATIONS.
Sports will commence at 11 a.m. sharp.
All competitors must appear on their marks re-
spectably dressed.
Any runner going over his mark before the
pistol is fired w ill be put back—first time, one
yard; second time, two yards ; third time, will be
disqualified.
Three starters for eaoh event or no race ; four
staiters or no second prize.
Protests (accompanied with a fee of 55.) must
be lodged with the Secretary within ten minutes
after the event is run.
Nominators for the Sheffield Handicap must
send in to the Secretary at the time of entry their
performances for the past two years.
Nominations for the Sheffield Handicap must be
in the hands of the Secretary hot later than 8 p.m.
on MONDAY, 19th March.
Handicaps to be deolared on THURSDAY, 22nd
March.
Acceptances to be in not later than 8 p.m. on
SATURDAY, 31st March.
Post entries for all other events except the
Sheffield Handicap.
JOHN MELLOR,
Hon. Seo.
JUST PUBLISHED.
“WHISPERING VOICES '—POEMS
by
EDWARD CANDISH.
Crown Octavo, Elegant Wrapper. Price, 2s. 6d.
To be had of Sydney Booksellers.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Limited ; Sydney,
Brisbane, and London.
An Historical Question.
Henry Ikin, descendant of a soldier in the
New South Wales Corps, dashes into type in the
columns of the Sydney Morning Herald to sa
that everything that everybody else has said
false. “My grandfather died before I was born
but I have often heard the old story that had re-
ference to Governor Bligh and his arrest bj
Major Johnston from my father, my uncle, ant
Mr. Ternant, who was in Ihe band with my
uncle.” Of course, they all told the same “ old
story.” Naturally they stuck up for their reg
ment, simply because the rank-and-file of the New
South Wales Corps was as much implicated in th
rebellion as Major Johnston himself. Henry
Ikin adds pathetically: “'Jhey all loved th
major.” Of course they did. He secured to them
a monopoly of the private still business and the
were grateful. The unsophisticated Ikin goe3 o;i
to say that Major Johnston “ was willing t
make any sacrifice to save the country from
ruin.” '1 his child-like faith is touching in the ex
treme, but we are terribly afraid the gallan
Major doesn’t deserve it —
I believe that what we have seen in print lately, traducin
the characer ef Major Johnston, has been cm ied from
s'atements the production of Governor Bligh and his par
ticular friend?.
■Ah! no doub\ but, unfortunately, these state
ments were recorded ns evidence which was con
sidered So conclusive that only high influence
Cierfhd dn behalf of the Major saved his life. The
defence set up by Mr. Ikin is a 1 so very one-sided.
HC says
But my accour t is from'soldiers .in the same regiment as
himself—(Major JOhnSton)— and who could hav- no object
in giving a false representation to the facts referred to. .
I have waited patiently to see if four ole native whose an-
cestors were connected with the 102 ad Regiment . . .
would give a truthful statement., etc;, but, not having found
one, I have done my best, and felt it a duty, not only cut of
respect to the memory of Major Johnston, but also to the
memory of my honoured father and uncle, whom I rever
knew to tell an untruth.
Considering the stake played for, there is nocUubt
liie soldiere of Johnston’s regiment were very
grateful to him. For a season bis coup d'etat hol-
ste r ed up the odious rule of Ihe New Pouth Wales
Corps, which Bligh hid unceasingly fought
against. The colony of New South V ale 3 owes
much to the Muff old sea-dog, for with the arrival
of Governor Macquarie— whom nobody considers
it safe to attack— iligh’s regime of hostility to
the rule of the rum-monopolists was revived, aud
their power for ever crushed, though, unfortu-
nately, not entirely eradicated. r t heir descendants
still govern in official circles, and the laws framed
by them for convicts are seemingly effectually
riveted on to the necks of a free people.
The Story of Mary Wilson.
Oh the 4th January last, when dukes and other
hereditary loafe s were just finishing up the
Christmas festivities, some one fell heavily over
the dead body of Mary WtLSON, who was
spread out loose on the steps of a Loud n
church with no boots cn her feet and an
empty physic-bottle in her hand. Mary’s soul
had taken flight, and her mortal remains being
fished out of the snow and it ques'ed, it was
found that she had fled across the Styx by
her own act in a moment of temporary de ange-
ment. Her dea’h saves the buidened taxpayer
the sum of £26 per annum. Years ago, the de-
ceased had a luxurious home in a London suburb
where she lived with her son, and in those days
she had as many boots as she wanted, and used to
lie on a sofa instead of on a doorstep. Then the
soa died intestate, leaving property valued at
£BOOO, and it was discovered that his mother had
not been married until after he was born, and the
poor old woman being unable to mate out
any legal claim upon the assets the property
was annexed by the State in the ordinary
course of law. While the money was lying at the
credit of the Pre Eminent ia Grief, Mrs Wilson
led a precarious existence in ash-barrels and
empty tanks ; her own fcierds, the conventional
“ Christians ’ of the present day, all went back on
her upon discovering that her early morals had
not been so good as they ought to have been, and
it took her all she knew to raise an occasional
postage-stamp with which to write to Victoria,
by the Grace of God, and ask her if she couldn’t
let her have a little of her son s money to beep her
from starving. At last theee appeals bore fruit,
ftnd a letter was delivered at the boiler on the
Wharf, where Mary Wilson was temporarily
residing, by which she learned that a pension
Of 10s. a week (or £26 a year, though the interest
On £BOOO at 3 per cent, is £240 per annum) had
been graciously conferred upon her. Thanks to
this timely assistance, the old ladgjwas enabled to
take a room in a back-street and uo lay in a table
and a second-hand chair, and then in the after-
noons she usßd to sit at the window and gaze out on
the washerwomen fighting in the yard and lovingly
reflect on her Sovereign’s goodness But, unluckily,
she had acquired a taste for sinful luxury when
living in that suburban villa, and, instead of
mortifying the flesh, she gave way to dissipa-
tion and spent her fourteenpence a day in
riotous living, and even indulged in coals. In
consequence of this wild extravagance she fell
behind with her rent, and at the festive season
she got the bey of the street. Then she tried to
hold out in tanks and ash-barrels until the next
10s. would be due, but it was snowing heavily,
and she grew tired of it. Her table and chair had
been seized ; her son was dead ; her old home had
been sold up by the Government of t*m Empress
of India; and she had no boots or stockings ; and,
after sizing all these things up, she borrowed a
little bottle of laudanum and went to sleep.
The Shepherds Who Shear Their Sheep.
The Australasian contains about half a column
concerning on the death of the bevd. Dr. MacKin-
non of Strath, in the island of Stye, the repre-
sentative of the last of three generations of that
name who have since 1777 occupied a manse at
Strath. I hat this last minister was an uncle to
Lachlan MacKinnon, the rufous manager of the
Argus, accounts for the prominence given to the
phrase that by this death was broken another
“ link which bound the honored name of MacKin-
non to the cradle and home of their race.” It is
a pity for the interests of journalism that any of
these Macs, ever got farther than their cradles,
but you never found one of them who got a
chance of leaving his home ever return. Lachlan
MacKinnon, the absentee proprietor of the
Argus, hasn t gone back to the cradle of his race
—he lives in Devonshire, This Dr. MacKinnon,
who is just dead, and who, according to the Aus-
tralasian, “loved his people, and they loved
him,” was, for nearly 50 years, in possession of the
Glebe lands and tithes of Strath, deriving there-
from a fat ineome without having a congregation
of half-a-dozen. The people of Strath and of all
Skye belong to the Free Church of Scotland, and
will not worship in the Established Kirk. It is a
crying shame that for 111 years these reverend
Mackinnons should have lived on the poor people
of Strath. Little wonder that the Crofters are
discontented when such a state of things has
existed. Little wonder that, under the manage-
ment of a Mackinnon, the Argus and Australa-
Sian become Tory rags out of touch with all
the sympathies of the people of Victoria ; but
even Scotch obstinacy ought to yield to the over-
whelming testimony of a fallen prestige. Whilst
David Syme is day by day becoming richer and
the age is a power which can make and unmake
ministries, the A rocs is daily losing political
power and has now no influence except, per
chance, with the Government House “push,” to
whom the Jeameses and Jenkinses of the paper
love to grovel.
The New York Times recently headed a cable-
gram concerning Cardinal Manning “ Dr.
M’Glynn's New Ally the New York Tribune
headed its cablegram in re the same subject, “An
Anarchist Cardinal.” The following, from a re-
cent article by Cardinal Manning, in the Fort-
nightly, occasioned all the bother: —“ The obliga-
tion to feed the hungry springs from the natural
right of every man to life and to the food neces-
sary for the sustenance of life, go strict is this
natural right that it prevails over all positive laws
of property. Necessity has no law, anl a starving
man has a natural right to h*s neighbour's
brea-t.” Who will dare to say that Cardinal
Manning is not right ?
Mulhall’s “Dictionary of Statistics” states that
in Great Fritain and Ireland there are 47,646,000
acres c?f pasture and arable land. On this the
landlord levies an annual rent of £1 4s. per acre,
and the tenant, “infa'r years,” ma v es 4s. per
acre. In other words, the land-thief who does no
work and serves- no useful purpose on earth, gets
over £58,000,000, be the seasons good or bad,
while the toiler, hut for whom the land would be
worthless, the landlord a beggar, and the nation
ruined, mates a little over £10,000,000 on the
comparatively rare occasions when he reaps a
gocd harvest, and in bad years his income sinks
down to the vanishing point—which, in England,
means the bailiff, followed by the workhouse. If the
land is ever utte ly abandoned by the people, Eng-
land will be a desert, and, meanwhile, the agricul-
turists—the only real producers of a nation —pay
£58,000,000 annually for the privilege of saving
the nation from extinction !
■
“ Mr. Chisholm Gray is in Sydney col-
lecting material for his grandmother's biography,
av d wid bo glad if anyone who can give him in-
formation calculated to be of service in the work
will communicate with him at the Reform Club.”
Many people may be tempted to atk what have we
to do with Mr. Gray’s grandmother ? Well, she
was known half a century ago as Mrs Caroline
Chisholm, the “ Emigrant’s Friend.” Mr. Gray
is eon of Edmund D *yer Gray, ex-Lord Mayor of
Dublin, a pronounced Nationalist, member of Par-
liament for the St. Stephens’ Green Division of the
City of Dublin, aid a leading proprietor of the
Freeman’s Journal published in that city. Mr.
Gray is grandson of Sir John Gray, the
compatriot of O’Connell and one of six who
went to gaol with O’Connell and Gavan
DufFy in 1844. The interest Australians may
take in him, however, is centred in the fact
that he is grand-nephew to Wilson Gray, who, a
generation ago, assisted largely to shape the poli-
tical des inies of the colony of Victoria. Wilson
Gray, a graduate of Trinity Coi ega, Dublin, and
a barrister-at law, arrived in Melbourne in '56, in
the same ship that brought Gavan Duffy, and
while the latter was assisted by the Irish residents
—there were no native statesmen then, as the
colony was still in its teens— who purchased a
property which qualified him for a seat in Parlia-
ment, Gra> was content with a seat in that ot her Par-
liament which met in the Assembly Hotel, Spring-
street, and was knownaithe Victorian Convention.
The discovery cf gold in the Southern colony
caused an influx of a sturdy, resolute class of men
who soon made their influence felt, men who, as
was shown at the Eureka Stockade in 1854, were
not afraid to risk liberty and life in helping to
build up a free and independent nation. When
the gold fever cooled, these men who had deter-
mined to make the colony their home had to find
fresh scope for their industry, and naturally
looked to the broad Crown lands of the country
as a proper means ot subsistence. Parliament was
deaf to the urgent appeals of the people, and
thinking men founded the “ Convention,” a body
of delegates from all parts of the colony who de-
bated the measures before Parliament, the princi-
pal of v-h'.ch was the Land BUI. Wilson Gray
was one of the most prominent members of the
Amateur Parliament—a body which taught the
science of legislation to many who have since in-
scribed their names upon the Parliamentary roll
cf the colony. Later on, when property-qualifi-
cation was abolished, Wilson Gray entered Parlia-
ment as member for Rodney, and was always
found fighting on the side of the people. When
t*e land question was settle! in a sort of way Mr.
Gray betook him t o New Zealand where he ob-
tained a District Court Judgeship, in which posi-
tion he died a few years ago. Mrs. Caroline
Chisholm has a son in N.S.W.—formerly a clerk
in the office of the Minister of Justice— a captain
in the Highland Volunteers, who now holds the
position of Police Magistrate at Yass
Were I on suicide intent)
With pistol at my head,
Or o'er the foaming* torrent bent,
To leap into its bed,
E’en then I could be rescued by
Some friend upon the brink,
Who’d whisper in my ear the cry
“ What will you take to drink?”
“St. Louis Lager Beer,” I’d yell,
In accents wild and clear,
There’s naught can soothe
Parched bowels like
“ St. Louis Lager Beer." *
WOMA.’S FRIEND,
By woman’s friend we do not mean man. Not at
all I It is ex pected he will he her friend and helper
under any and all circumstances. It is, however,
something of vast importance to which we refer
—viz., the question of health. Almost ever;
physician cf education will tell you that most o
the d fRculties from which women suffer are in
variably due to congestion of the pelvic organ
with impaired kidney action arising from etagna
tion of the blood-vessels Hundreds of ladies hav
forwarded letters similar to the following :
Launceston, Tas , April 21, 1887. About tw
years and a half ago I tiok a fainting sensation
I went to one of the p inoipal doctors in the town
bub gradually grew worse. I called in anothei
dcctor, and he told me he could do me no more goot
than the first doctor. I was advised to go to th
seaside; it did me no good, but I seemed to b
wasting away. I used to feel faint every hour
and I had a pain at my be art which would lav
for three days at a time. My breath was ver
short, and I thought every hour would be my last
Dropsy set in in my feet very bad I was unable
wear my boots, and could nob walk any distanc
without feeling very 111. I had a very bad pain i
the top and back of my head, a severe p ain between
my shoulders, and down my baok, and I ooulc
scarcely get my breatb. I had a bsatlng sensation
at the pit of my stomach, and after meals was
seized with such a violent pain in my stomach tha
I was afraid to take any food. A feeling woulc
come over me that I was going blind, and losing
the use of my left side. A nervous perspirattor
would come over me with a choking sensation in
the throat My pulse was 120, and I thought J
was going to di \ My friends would have to walk
me a oub to circulate my blood My friends ad
vised me to see the homoeopathic doctor, who re-
lieved my sufferings a good deal, tfoen after the
doctor left the town, and my brother spoke to me
about Warner's safe cure, and ashed me to give It
a trial. I purchased a bottle and commenced
taking it. The first two bottles made me very sick
and ill ; I was obliged to lie down after taking it.
I have been taking it for over 12 months, and have
followed all the directions for diet. I can now
walk 6 miles without feeling faint, and am able to
do all n y own work. I have lost nea-ly all the
distressing symptoms. I thank God that the medi-
cine has so ft r restored me and wou’d highly re c m-
mend it to anyone sufferirg from ill-health —Rosa
Hughes Also please read the fallowing:—
Wabrnambool, Yict., July 15th, 1887. Three
years ago when confined I was taken seriously ill,
and was not expected to live. My case wai a
serious one. When passing water I was afflicted
with the most agoniting pains, which no doctor
could relieve. Night and day my pains were so
distressing that I could neither sit nor stand, and
I was unable to sleep. I had great pains in my
head, and was never free from sick headache.
My chest was covered with a rash, and my legs
were very much swelled. My Bides were ailing
fearfully, and I thought my end was near ; my skin
turned yellow, and my eyes sunk and turned blacx.
At that time, when I hoped that death would
relieve my misery, a friend advised me to try
Warner's safe cure. After taviDg taken one bottle
with one vial of Warner’s safe pills, my pa'ns had
almost disappeared, and I felt as if I bad entered
into a new e xisten ce. I have now altoge her used
18 bottles, and it has taken away all the swelling.
I am no longer afflicted with sick headache, all
pains have gone, and I am in the best of health. —
Mrs Hannah Henderson. Still further evi-
dence is given :-Mackay, Q , Cob. 17, 1887.
About two years ago I was taken seriously ill, and
my suffering in time increased so much that my
life was despaired of. My demise seemed s i near
at hand that the holy communion was administered
to me. In my back and under my shoulders,
my pain was so intense ihat I cannot describe it.
The pairs in the lumbar region and in the pit of
the stomach were also agonising in the extreme,
and I thought my end had come. I was under two
different doctors, and was treated for tumour, kid-
ney and liver d’sease, to no effect. Last October
Warner s safe cure was handed to me by my
husbaEd. From the very start it eased my pains,
and with each bottle my system gatnered strength.
I have now consumed 32 bottles of Warner's safe
cure, with a number of vials of Warner s safe pills,
and my pains have gradually abated, and I can
say that I have now pretty well recovered from a
very complicated ard serious sickness, although I
was notexpected to live. Mrs. Fredrick Weiske
(wife of the overseer, Divisional Board). Warner s
safe cure is the wife’s and mother’s friend ; it acts
in harmony at all times and under all circum-
stanoeswiththeirdelicatenatnres, and removes all
complaints peculiar to their sex, except those re-
quiring surgical relief.


Centraliy
SITUATED
e AND
ACCESSIBLE
TDAUTHE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DAN I ELLS IMPERIAL HOJEL
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE
EQUATOR
£2
i
//////''
i
I
4$
t
7
LL_
pP
□
U !—l
■Mliiiiiiiiiiii
hTDAN
Ms
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
i s IATION
[TELEPHONIC
'communication
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Loom attached for tue convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Jirawing-room, with a magnificent view of tie Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Bentlemen’s Hot and Gold Plunge and Shower Baths. Wt COMMERCIAL BOOS.
Intltmm'e Smoking, Heading, andCerreaponding Hoorn. AH Letter* and Telegram* applying for Apartment* will receive prompt attention. 0. H. DAXIELL.
Some European ladies, passing through
Constantinople, paid a visit to a oertain high
Tnrkish functionary. The host offered them re-
freshments, including a great variety of sweet-
meats, always taking care to give one of the
ladles double the quantity he gave the others.
Flattered by this marked attention, Bhe put the
question through the interpreter, “ Why do you
serve me more liberally than the rest?” “Be-
cause you have a larger mouth," was the straight-
forward answer.
i a s a ir e.
Bole Proprietor „ Mr. John Solomon
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. A. L. Cunard.
LAST THREE NIGHTS
of the very popular Opera Burlesque
LITTLE JACK SHHPPARD.
If you want to see
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD,
come early and secure a seat.
Remember, only Three Nights more of
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD,
and all the Old Favourites.
We finish our Season on SATURDAY, and sail
on Thursday for New Zealand.
Business Manager
Mr. Joe Davlß.
Alhambka music kali,
Qeorge-street, Haymarkefc.
Proprietor and Manager M ... Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at T.BO,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 88 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
Theatre roial
Under the Dlreotion of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and MnsgriTe.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Laiar,
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROYE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
have achieved another veritable triumph in
ERMINIE, ERMINIE, ERMINIE.
Prices i—Dress circle, ss. i Stalls. 3s. i Clrole, Is,
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7. | Performance 8. j Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prloes, 55., Bs., 35., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson's and Co.'s.
J. P, MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING-
SKATING.
SKATING.
SKATING.
SKATING
The largest and finest Skating Rink in the Colony,
Large stork or new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admission: GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE. 23 ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds illuminated by Electric
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD. Manager.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
GIGANTIC SUCCESS of the PALACE
SKATING RINK.
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p m.
Admission Is. Children half-price.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.80.
JRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
ox Well-known Artists,
kSTUTIOAI.LT AND NUM BBIOALL Y THE STBONQIBT,
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin,
Grounds, Is. Children free,
FRANK SMITH, DlreotM,
Alhambra music hall.
George-street. Haymarket.
Propriebor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Sbage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington,
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
CROWDED HOUSES.
EVERY EVENING THE CHARMING SO-
PRANO, Miss FLORENCE NEVILLE, and bhe
PLEASING CONTRALTO, Miss BERTHA
FANNING ; also, the PHENOMENAL TENOR.
Mr. GEO. HARRISON, and the FAVOURITE
BASSO PROFUNDO, Mr. A. E. ROBINSON.
Orohesbra Chalra, 3b.; Sballs, Is.; Baloony, fld
AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY’S GROUND.
NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 17th.
NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 17tb.
THE FIRST CALL ON PUBLIC FAVOUR.
SPORTS EXTR
HORSES V. BICYCLES, 20 Miles, for £lOO.
Mounted Sword Contesb between Messrs. Tonks
and Comer, for £5O.
Wrestling on Horseback (bareback) for Valuable
Trophy presented by M‘Gregor, Harris, and Co.
MOUNTED CONTEST, SWORD V. LANCE,
for £5O.
Professional Bicyole Raoes. Fancy and Bur-
lesque Riding by the undoubted Champion of bhe
World.
Obher Noteworthy Events. See future adver-
tisements, &o.
Admission to Ground, Is. ; bo Grand Stand, 2s. 65.
ROLLINSON and GRANT, Managers.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD,
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railway
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less than two miles from Menangle
Station, divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AREA, 2063 ACRES.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intending departure from the
colony, to submit to auction, at their rooms, 130
Pitt-street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April,
at 11.30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly
improved rroperties ever submitted for sale in ihe
colonies. About 1600 ACRE 3 have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly tree?, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Ks'ate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Sea*\
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE'S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUSE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbu ldings,
stabler, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &c , See. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&c. Elevation above sea level about 600 ft.
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains,
*»* It being Impossible within the limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MOUNT GILEAD, a detc iptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is In course if preparation.
The Estate will be submitted in one lot, and
should the proprietor fail to obtain a price com-
mensurate with the value of the property, It will
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
farms from so acre 3 to too acres each.
Intending buyers may inspeot at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers. \ -
TERMS AT SALE.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE El BRIQHTOIsr OF 3ST-S-W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, fco., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you oan have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable oan be found at this really first-olass hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Hilminster to make her vißi*
tors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OVIJOHITB QOIAN BKAOH MARLY.
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION,
SYDNEY, 1888.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
WILL BE OPENED on WEDNESDAY, 14th MARCH, 1888, at Noon, by his Excellency the
Right Hon. LORD CARRINGTON, G.C.M.G., &c., Governor of New South Wales.
Leon Carons Centenary Cantata, exprestly composed for the opening of the Universal Centenary
Exhibiticn, will be performed. Admlssior, Is.
At 8 o’clock, a GRAND PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY by C. T. Brock & Co,, of the Crystal Palace
The Grounds will be brilliantly illuminated with thousands cf Vauxhall lamps and Japanese lanterns..
Open-air Concert will tie given by the Cen enary Universal Exhibition Band.
H. B. HARDT, Secretary.
o : o
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION HORTICULTURAL FETE—l5tb, 16th, 17th instant.
Application Forms from H. B. HARDT, Secretary
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
T7"ictoria,.
THK CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
la the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort In the Colonies,
The Hotel oontalna 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladles Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention,
First-class Hotel Servloe. Accommodation for
200 Quests. Gas, Eleotrlo Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages loed.
(Uni. L Sftiriig 2 Co.,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, la the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverlna Distriot. Mr, J, H. B, SPEAKING'S
30 years' experience as a Public Caterer la a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Gueats visiting him will undoubtedly
reoeive.
Private Apartments. Private and Publio
Baths. Aloock's Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
J. 1. B. Spearing,,
PROPRIETOR.
NEWEST INVENTION-GREATEST NOVEL'x'Y.
LiiuU'Ulj
' ' :
UN
THE
&
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET,;
Patented in England and on the Continent-
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric;.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. (Guaranteed Wear
The Queen says" These Corsets are a new departure. The material is out on the crossi,
and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain. They/
are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all that could!
b e desired.”
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1883
Gold Medal, Highest Award
for Corsets, London International Exhi
bition, 1884.
latest Award!!! Gold Medal Internal
tlonal Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAUTION.— Beware of worthless im
tations. Every genuine Y & N Corset i
stamped “ Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116," in oval.
ROM BV Alt DRAPERS AND LADIES OUTFITTERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND COLONIK „
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall's Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery;
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing
DR. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
for all Nervous Diseases; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
and the Dootor will tell you at onoe whether your
case is ourable or not. Address—
DR. RICH&RDS,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.


THK AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSUR INCH and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guaranteed Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.8., Chairmar.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES of interest for LONG TERM
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under 12 months.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, aad giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits durhog CURRENT
month, allowing
£1 per cent, for 3 years
£G ~ „ 12 montbß I
£5 „ „ 6 months j
£i ,i ii 3 months J
With Cash Bonus if renewed
at the rate of £1 per cent per
annum, or withdrawable on
notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post free. '
The Company solicits applications for Loars,
repayable by Instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices : Corner King and Elizabeth
Btreets.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affectß
your interests.
CRAIG UTKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR MER-
CHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George-street, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
ARMY AND NAVY,
.For SMOKING or CHEWING,
la atm the moat popular Brand In the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG, AND AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11a., 11a.,
p.p.’a, 7a. : TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American), finely flavored,
bast valne in the market. Jib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in Jib. packeta. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality!
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-olass style at a very
moderate cost). Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacoo and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 George-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.,
A Special Invitation.
We especially invite a trial by all those sufferers
from Kidney and Liver complaints who have
failed to obtain relief from other remedies and
from doctors. Nature’s great remedy— dr. bell’s
bitters— has effected cures in many obstinate
cases. It acts at once on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, cleansing the system of all poisonous
humors, and restoring a healthy condition of those
important organs. Do not be discouraged, but
try it. *
You cannot do better, if you feel dull and languid, and
out of sorts generally, than to try Dunstone’s Compound
Essence of Dandelion. A few doses will brace up the
nerves, clear the brain, and make you feel fit and well. A
perfect blood purifier and strengthener of the whole system.
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle as to the mar-
vellous efficacy of this preparation. A sure cure for all Liver
and Kidney Disorders, as well as Gout, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, and all Nervous Diseases. Sold by all Druggists
at ss. per bottle. Wholesale agents: Elliott Bros, Ltd-,
Sydney,
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension.
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumeß of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the Bame time most
destructive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown. Whole-
sale from Messrs Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser & Co.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair —To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Macassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best pre-
server, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold also in
a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children. Row-
lands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers in
perfumery for Rowland s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
ALMO3T YOUNG AGAIN.
My mother was afflicted a long time with neuralgia and a
dull, heavy inactive condition of the whole system ; head-
ache, nervous prostration, and was almost he'pless. No
pbync'ans or medicines did her any good. Three months ago
she began to use Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, with
such good effect that she seems and feels young again,
although over 70 years old. We think there is no other medi-
cine fit to use in the family.—A lady in Providence, R.l.
“Journal.”
GET OtJT DOORS
The close confinement of all factory work, gives the opera*
tives pallid faces, poor appetite, languid, miserable feelings,
poor blood inactive liver, kidney and urinary troubles, and
all the physicians and medicine in the world cannot help
them unless they get out of doors or use Dr. Soule s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, the purest and best remedy, especially for
such cases, havirg abundance of health, sunshine and rosy
cheeks in them. They oost but a trifle. See another column.
—" Christian Reoorder.”
A Boon to Humanity.— ln 1844 a therapeutical Inven-
tion v as brought before the world, which surprised everyone,
in that it dispelled, modified or lessened Pain, the charac-
teristic symptom of nearly all diseases. The inventor made
no secret of his Discovery, although at the time Scepticism
raised her head, and people loudly acclaimed it was im-
possible that a single medicine oould arreßt Pain of every
kind, and core a variety of diseases fcuEh, however, was the
fact when Mr. Richard Freeman placed in the hand of the
publio his Genuine Chl< rodyne. Tear by year its cosmo-
politan popularity has increased, till it is now f und in every
quarter of the globe and thousands dally, in New Zealand
and other lands, express their gratitude and sens® of security
from the use of this medicine.—Sold everywhere throughout
the Colonies. Insist upon having Freeman’s" only.
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an
Elephant.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near Ring-street Aroade.*
Children star Vise to death on account of their in-
ability to digest food, will find a moßt marvellous food and
remedy in Scott's Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hypo phosph ites. Very palatable, and easily
digested. Read the following testimonial: "I have pre-
scribed 1 Scot! s Emulrion’ in oaseß of children suffering
from wasting and mal-nutrition, and can report most favour-
ably of its good effect; it has been in each case taken most
readily.—W. Perkins, M.R C.S., Medical Superintendent,
Burleigh Hospital, England." Any chemist can supply it at
4s 63.
A Popular Fallacy.
Many people think that rheumatism cannot be
onred. It is caused by a bad state of the blood,
which deposits poisonous matter in the joints and
muscles, causing lameness stiffness and swelling
of the joints, and excruciating pains, dr, bell’s
(Kidney and Liver) bitters will certainly effect a
cure. They act on the kidneys, liver and bowels,
stimulating them to a healthy action, purifying
and enriching the blood and eliminating the poison
from the system. Go to the nearest druggist, buy
dr. bell's bitters, and be onred.
£ot
€
r
m
m
BEFORE TAKING,
(non tin.)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine.” —Proverba 17-Ci 22-u.
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZED - IRON QUININE TONIC.
REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produoe health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food. It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d., from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direot from the Manufacturer, W, F, GAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Gamperdown, Sydney.
Beware ef Imitation!, Take M BibitltlMl
m
AFTER TAKING.
(tiom lira.)
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twi
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for ohlldren.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affeotions.
The aotion of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov-
ing all Impure seoretlons than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease wUI find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three timeß a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
BSE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England
Port Adelaide, Ootober 80 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row's Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for It without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver oomplalntto try them,—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 81, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness resolved by
the undersigned t—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, Indigestion, pain In the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produoed an
unexpected and wonderful effect and ohange In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
"lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflloted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“ Messrs, Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
ill
rm& n- w/» t a
4
IMS!
Bow’s Steane’a Wine
la a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for It raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary exoite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Bow’s Steane's Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNG LADIE3 can taka
this when suffering from general debility. It's
only a pure tonic. Try It.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW'S
* STEANE”S ’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any In-
jurious chemicals, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They should become a favorite drink In
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Bow’s Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the exoesslve
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS.
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 17, GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
A LOVERS’ QUARREL.
SHE: “I’VE BEEN AS TRUE TO YOU AS YOU HAVE TO ME.”
HE: “THAT’S NOT SAYING MUCH.”


OUR
NEW ADDRESS
TECH! OISTLY
kisiou nrnimn
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
T>EG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favours,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments tor our new premises,
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGGORDEONS
is something marvellous.
o
a ■-«.
PATENT BRASS NOTED ACCORDEONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 22/0, 25/-, 30/-, 10/
50/., &c,
PATENT STEEL NOTED ACCORDEONS,
30/-. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 10/-, 19/-,' 15/-, and 50/
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACCORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/
PATENT GERMAN SILVER ACCORDEONS,
30/-, 32/6., 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/, up to £4
4 6 5 0 7,0 9/8, 10/6, 12/8, 15/-, 17/8, 21/., 18/
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to 4315.
Genuine Laohenal Anglo German ... M 35/■
„ „ steel notes M _ 60/
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key, complete
for 21/,
In Banjoes we have the finest to he seen In Aus
tralla, having by the last American Mall received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/'-, 20/-, 30/-, up to £l5 la/-.
ODR SPECIAL LINES ARE:—
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 ~ „ „ 4 10/-.
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zamplnani’s at 6d , 61., and 1/-, each,
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewlngton’s at 6i , 9d., and 1/-, each
Breuss and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout,
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instant
mends oarefnlly packed and sent to any part of
the oolonles.
Enquiries attended to by return of posh
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
658 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence
of Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among
those who have arrived at or past middle age. It
is declared on good authority that fully one-half
the deaths in this country are either direotly or
indirectly the result of Kidney cr Liver disease of
some sort. '
A great majority of men above 40 years of age
are afflicted with some sort of affection of the
Kidneys or Bladder, and these diseases are on the
increase. Persons are often seriously affected
before they know of it themselves, and thus these
insidious disorders get a good foothold before any-
thing is done to dislodge them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright's disease, In-
continence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder,
Albumenuria, &c., are among the many forms of
these diseases. Most of these are very difficult to
cure, defying the powers oftentimes of the best
physicians obtainable, and are pronounced by
many to be incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in
diseases of this form oftentimes there are no
symptoms of a marked nature. This is one of the
reasons why they are so difficult to cure.
Dr. Bell's Kidney and Liver Bitters is a specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and
Urinary diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and
all of that class of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headaches, Jaundice, Liver and
Stomach troubles, Dispensia, Constipation, and Piles
It cures Intemperance, Nervous diseases, General Debility,
Female Weaknesses and excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, hiehly recommended, works
prompt ly, relieves at once, and was never known to fail.
TESTIMONIALS.
Gents.—l have been troubled with Kidney disease; there
was also fluttering of the heart—palpitation, I suppose—
and I had to lie very quiet after going to bed. At last I
thought I would try a bottle of your bell’s bitters I
purchased some at Bedford, and took the medicine as
directed, and after using one bottle, I felt no more of the
flattering heart I got another bottle, and had to take only
one-half of it to be cured. My daughter was similarly
troubled; had no appetite ; could not sleep at night. I gave
her my half remaining bottle, and she rests as well as ever.
There is no trouble with my kidneys now. I shall keep
your medicine on hand
October, 1886. William Ritter.
Gentlemen—l have been troubled ever since I was a child
with Head aohes of a nervous character, and my mouth was
full of canker sires—so bad, indeed, that I could not eat;
nor could I >est at night. At last I tried your bell’s
bit i ers, and two bottles have brought me out all right, and
I now feel like a new person. „
October 29.1886 Mrs. C. Rose.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NRW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
Lo3s and Gain.
CHAPTER I.
“ I was taken Bick a year ago
With bilious fever."
“My doctor pronounced me cured, but I got
sick again, -with terrible pains in my back and
tides, and I got so bad I
Could not move !
I shrunk!
From 2281b5. to 120 1 I had been doctoiing for
my liver, but it did me no good. I did not ex
pect to live more than three months. I began to
use Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bittei’3. Directly
my appetite returned my pains left me, my entire
system seemed renewed as it by msgio tnd after
using several bottles, I am nob only as sound as
a soverign, but weigh more than I did before. To
Hop Bitters I owe my life.”
Dublin, June G, 'SO.
HHAPTER 11.
R. Fitzpatrick.
Maiden. Mass.. Peb. 1, 1886. Gentlemen—
I have suffered with attacks of sick headache.”
Neuralgia, female trouble, for years in the most
terrible and excruciating manner.-
No medicine or doctor could give me relief or
cure, until I used Dr. Boule's American Hop
Bitters.
“ The first bottle
Nearly cured me ; ”
The second made me as well and strong as
when a child,
“ And I have been to this day.”
My husband was an invalid for twenty years
with a serious
“Kidney, liver and urinary complaint,
“ Pronounced by Boston's be3t physicians—
“ Incurable!"
Seven bottle a of your Bitters cured him and I
know of the
“ live 3 of eight persons”
In my neighborhood that have been saved by
your Bitters,
And many more are using them \iith great
benefit.
“ They a 1 most
Do miracles?” -—Mrs, E. D. Slack.
How to Get Sick.—Expose yourself day and night: eat
too much without ex-rctee; work too hard without rest;
doctor all the time; take all the vile nostrums advertised,
and then you will want to know how to get well, which is
answered in a few words—Take Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
iS'None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white label, and Dr. Sonle’s name
blown on the bottle.. Beware of all the vile poi-
sonous stuff made to imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Fla-otogra.pla.ic I3ecru.isitei3.
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit! ——
AT EITItKR
8 2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
HWTON AND LAM
FORMITURH and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERER!
AMD
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS,
Full suites for dining-room.— side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match. NEWTON AND LAMB.
I ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
Patented.
CHAIR
at
This chair adjusts Itself to any pos tion, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
out represents only two of the numerous ositions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but littl
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body
and gives the occupant entire rest. 43T We oan
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/-; Without Stand 26/*,
Packin . in oanvas, if required 2b. 6d.
D
RAWING- ROOM SUITES, Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs | also, elegantly finished
in Embridery, Plush, &o. NEWTON & LAMB.
£
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTA
WRITING DESKS, of varl
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
lng Trays, Stationery Draw*
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand, Receptaoles for
Stamps, and Rn er and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into oompart
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarge
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfeotly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably Buited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
D
RAWING ROOM OJBI>
NBTSg
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
Large stock (ot pianofortes by the
MOSS CELEBRATED MAKERS.
BENT*
WOOD FURNITURE,
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB
EAST CHAIRS (or Parlonr, Library, or Betti
rooms. Now designs covered to order Ik
any material. NEWTON & LAMB.
Self-adjusting chair ana couch, (or
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING BAST CHAIRS, elegant and rset
Ini, a specialty, NEWTON & LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, all ilaoi
Nickel-plated and Blaafe
aad Bran. Hnat variety.
Bedding,—All description* at
lowest rataa.
NEWTON & LAMB.
SPRING IfATTKASSKS
Woren Win, b*>t
mako | alao, Spiral Spring-
Prloo, from 14a. aaeb,
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Fine Tables, (ram
IBs. 6d. i Dining Tables, from 30a. j Kitchen
Dressera, from 275. 6d.; Washstanda, from 13s. 6d,|
Chests of Drawers, from 40s. j Wardrobes, from
80s.) Oedar Chiffoniers, from 80a.i Cedar Side*
boards, faom M 10s,! Clothes Horses, from IBs. Hi
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 08s.
KWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING ft O'CONNELL. STREETS
I A valued correspondent writes to The
bulletin enquiring why the clergy name all their
hurches after saints, while hotels are named
fber animals and all sorts of things? He wants
a know distinctly why a place of worship should
ot b8 called the “ Spotted Dog ’’ or the “ Lion,”
nd why a tavern should not be St, Barnabas’ pub.
Ve reply candidly and cheerfully that we don’t
mow.
The S.M. Herald in a recent leader pain-
ully confesses that 4 ‘ Despite the humanising and
■efining influences of civilisation the old leaven
>f unfairness still lingers in our mode of treating
women." Now, that just proves how misleading
appearances are ! We would have staked our
soots; if necessary, that women —especially old
women—were the Herald’s special “ line."
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —To convince my
tellowmen, and particularly the Australians, of
the deplorable condition of the world at the pre-
sent time, and to show them that it is possible for
us to gain a knowledge of the past ages of this
world by refleotions upon the great law of Nature
or God, I beg to make the following prediction —
viz.—That Australia will be visited scon by a
great earthquake whioh will discover relic3 of a
past age of the world, in which its inhabitants
were in a similar state of civilisation to that of
ours at the present time. After this predicted
earthquake occurs, I trust the public will have
sufficient confidence in me to hear me farther,
when I hope to be able to tell them some things
that will be of use to them. But as th*y would
not listen to the late Leo Hausmann Pl8nla, it
would be folly for me to expect them to listen to
me until this earthquake does occur. I Eend a
copy of this to eaoh of the following editors for
publication, viz. :—Editor Age, Melbourne ; editor
Adelaide Observer ; editor Brisbane Telegraph,
who, I trust, will, as well as yourself, publish
this, if not before, immediately after the earth-
quake predicted occurs, and, if possible, bafore
the result of the eruption is known, as far as
relics are concerned.-- 1 am, &(*., James Miller.
Mooloolah, N.S.W. February 27, 1888. [We
have much pleasure in hereby appointing Mr.
Miller as Head Prophet in Ordinary to The
Bulletin.—Ed. B.]
The Courier’s late office In Queen-street,
Brisbane, is now occupied by an se thetic China
man, who advertises well.
Mr. R. Spencer Browne, once editor of a
Cocktown paper, ha3 seemingly lost his wife, one
of the mo3t charging young ladies who ever
adorned Brisbane society. One account recsived
from Colombo spates that Mrs. Browne was dead ;
another that she had disappeared ; and still yet
another states that she is in Colombo awaiting
her father, the Rev. J. Sutton, who has gone out
by the Jumna with Mrs. Sutton, Mr. Spencer
Browne is said to be on his way home by himself.
Down in Tasmania the path of him who
dcdge3 the gentleman with the lrng tail and the
honfs is Strewn with spikes. There was a drought
in the neighbourhood of Hobart some little time
ago, and when at lastthiDgs got down so low that
the public were compelled to wash in saucers, a
Sunday was set apart on which the whole popula
tioa was to pray for something to lay the dust.
The services were impressive—in one rural church
particularly so, and j ust as the plate was about to
go round the agricultural worshippers became
suddenly aware of a soft sound liKe water on the
roof. It grew louder and sloshed round with in-
creased vehemence ; the faith of the congregation
arose to bursting point, and the man who sat
underneath the leak in the rocf had to snake
himself out of the track of the refreshing
stream ; the -bojs in the street hollered
with excitement ; and then the row grew
louder stil', and the goats outside could ba
heard audibly wallowing in the cooling element.
The service closed hastily with a few well-chosen
remarks about the efflcaoy of prayer, and the
congregation went out to view the scene. The
man who gob out first said “ Damn I ’ and the un-
holy cuss echoed through the sacred edifice.
There wasn’t a cloud in the sky. The ther-
mometer had risen to 120 in the shade, and was
hanging on because it was too weak to rise any
higher. The dust was driving along in clouds,
and a big larrikin with a head like an evergreen-
tree was playing a hose on the roof.


“ Australia’s" Monster Consultations. Syd-
ney Cap, ran April 2nd, 3000 sain Bribers at £l.
First horse, £l5OO ; Second, £6OO ; Third £3OO ;
Starters, £3OO ; Non-starters, £3OO ; divided
amongst them. The Australian Jockey Club
Plate, run April 7th, 3000 subs., at 10s. each.
First horse, £7OO ; Second, £2OO ; Third, £lOO ;
Starters, £150; Non-starters, £150; divided
amongst them One hundred cash prizes of £2
each. Aim Queens' Birthday Cup, run May 21th,
3000. Subscribers are requested to apply early
and enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for
reply and result. Address, “ Australia," oare
of Mr. H. Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office, George-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
Dr. Alfred Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Burgeons, England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Croat Britain
and by the Medical Board of N. S. Wales. Specialist
in diseases of the kidneys, bladder, skin, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases a
special study through life, and he has had the very great
practical of a large private as well as hospital
practice not only in Great Britain and America, but the Con-
tinent of Europe Consultations either personally or by
letter. Eldon House. Phillip-street near King street,
Sydney.*
The Referee.
The brothers Kennedy, Johnson, Bros,
Brodle, Dobson, Frase”, and Martin, with Kloster
and Payne as emergenc es, are individually a fair
lot to represent N.S.W. in the intercoli niff eight-
oar race, but oollec ively a want of unanimity and
first class coaching presage an almost certain
defeat. The public find the money for these con-
tests, and it is time they knew how they were re-
presented. The last crew who went to Melbourne
quarrelled all through their training. One wanted
bis dinner in the middle of the day, another
thought evening the best time for his gorge ; the
boat was never put in the water without enough
cursing to sink a ship, and, when afloat, the crew
could be heard fault-finding and bickering by
strollers on the river-bank. How different the
Victorians ! Each man knew his place, the boat
was launched, the men tcoi their seats without
a murmur, and the eight darted away like a piece
of machinery. Four out of the present eight have
betn persuaded to take seats after refusing when
first asked, which means that the first tiff will see
them threatening to leave the crew, as the Asso-
ciation have acknowledged by running after them
that a crew cannot he formed without them.
Then, as to the matter of coaches — Messrs. P. J.
Clark an- 7 C. Perry. Two coach s are a farce on
the face of it, as they may have different opinions
as to style, and one may tell the men one day wha
the other will growl at the next. Mr. Perry h»s
not had sufficient experience in eight-oar rowing,
and Mr. Clark, who has, is too heavy to hawk
round as coxswain in a racing eight, and is not
£], Tins is our Anarchist brooding over the wrongs of mankind in
general.
2. —He resolves to write a scorch-
ing article, one that shall
make Dynasties tremble,
With a caustic pen dipped
in gall.
3. Alt hough his back is t timed to
us, we can plainly see that
he is making use of the
most conclusive arguments.
1. - There can be no doubt of his being
carried away by his theme, as well as
being deadly in earnest.
5.—-Yes, deeply, darkly, desperately in earnest
6.—ln his mind's eye he sees Dynasties
tottering and Thrones crumbling.
7.—Butin the agonies of composition he
quite lost sight of the fact that he
had some dynamite bombs in his
table drawer —- —
8. —Which exploded at the very climax of
one of his most revolutionary
utterances. We expect him down
in a day or two.
likely to have the time or inclination to go
out often with the crew. Mr. Oatley the
writer looks upon as the best coach the
colony can produce, and his past success and the
trouble he has taken on previous occasions cer-
tainly entitled him to the refusal of the post. At
least two good men besides the eight Bhould be
taken over and kept in equal trim with the crew,
so that, in the event of threats to leave the boat,
the growlers might be at once packed back and
their places taken by the emergencies. Year after
year sees the race thrown away by reason of
petty bickerings and want of Association back
bone, and subscribers may as well know that
they are wasting good money in sending these
quarrelling crews to misrepresent New South
Wales on Victorian waters.
* * •
The name of the second horse in the New-
market Handicap is Lord Ullen, not Lord Allen,
and those Scotchmen who were in the swim
backed him. Lochiel won the race last year, and
superstitious Soots thought they had the race
mortgaged again.
# * *
The “bike” men still remain firm in
their determination to Btop gwcm'-professionalism,
an attempt to remove the disqualification from C.
W. Bennett having been defeated.
* * *
The two English Elevens have succeeded
In cutting one another’s throats. Lillywhite and
company, up to the present, are £l5OO to the bad;
whilst Vernon’s Eleven have so far put the
M.C.C. in to the tune of between £2500 and £3OOO.
Offers were made at the outset to indemnify
Lillywhite against loss, which were declined. Io
lace of the heavy losses, however, the Cricket
Association might well forego thsir 5 per cen 1 -., as
they are not In want of funds, and Lillywhite has
ever shown himself to be a thorough sportsman.
• * *
The Giffens, after all, would appear to be
about getting their price from the Australian
Eleven.
• * *
The D.T. published a cable to the effect
that Cabbage Garden cricketer “Tub” Scott had
started for Australia. Great Scott!
* • •
Melbourne Is to hold a big International
Centennial Regatta early in November. Excep-
tionally large prizes are offered, the list being
headed with a challenge race for yachts, 20 tons
and over, flr t t prize £5OO and a gold anchor
valued £lOO. Mr. Milson’s Era should have a
b’g say in that.
♦ # *
A good Idea of the show Mr. Buck would
have made against the N.S.W. champion amateur
boxer may be taken from the Britisher s show
against Yankee Costello in Melbourne on Satur-
dav night. Costello, the ether evening, had all
the worst of his meeting with Mr. t'eale,
whilst, from the beginning of his bout with Mr.
Burk, the American punished hia men heavily
and continued to make a ohopping-blocK of him
until the police stopped the proceedings in the fifth
round.
* * *
The amateurs travelling with Lilly white’s
team are to be ca’led upon to show cause why
they should not be classed as professionals, on the
ground that they are forming part of agate-money
combination. We hear nothing, however, of the
heavily-subsidised gentlemen of Vernon’s team.
* * *
At the V.B.C. races, on Saturday, the
Hon Jas. White continued his unprecedented run
of luok by winning the All-Aged Stakes with
Cranbrook, who won in a canter from Lady Betty.
Alphington defeated Gentian in the Unplaced Two-
year-old Handicap ; Ruby won the Steepleohase;
and the Hon. White again chipped in by winning
the Loch Plate with Carlyon. The Place Handi-
cap fell to Ben Bolt; and The Charmer appro-
priated the Farewell Handicap.
* * *
Dr. Grace’s record is without doubt the
moßt brilliant of any cricketer that ever lived.
He has made over 50,000 runs, which means he
has run over 600 miles of ground to obtain these
runs. He has made 100 runs in an innings more
than 130 times; 200 runs 12 times; 300 runs
thrice, and once he made 100 runs. His advice to
young players ought to be framed and hung up
in every club-room : “ Play with a free and up-
right bat; be not anxious about scoring at the
first; keep your eye well on the ball; the left
shoulder kept well forward and the left elbow
naturally well up; stand upright, with the top
of the handle of the bat jusb above your belt, and
the blade almost on a level with the middle
stump."
• * *
“Tattersall” was fined not long since
for promoting a so-called Consultation, but he
still carries on his “ sweeps” on all big horse and
foot races, that for the recent Newmarket Handi-
cap being for no less a sum than £lO,OOO. He
advertises in almost every paper in the various
colonies, so it cannot be that the police are un-
aware that the sweeps are still oarried on. The
“ traps," however, didn't take long to stamp out
Mr. “ Barb " and his little affair.
• • *
This from the Argus report of Newmarket
Handicap Day at Fiemington:—“Down in the
paddock the bookmakers were plying business
with earnestness enough to make up for time lost
at Moonee Va ley on Thursday, when they went
on strike rather than pay a fee for doing business.
The fraternity, too, seemed all the heartier for
their rest.” Great Scott! One would imagine
that odds laying was like brick laying. “Their
rest," forsooth!
* * *
The noble art plays a lone hand on this.
A telegram in Melbourne Leader of 9th Feb.,
says ‘ Mr. Slavln defeated Mr. Lain g for repre-
sentation in Parliament of Wanganui, N.Z." Is
this some oold-blooded chestnub, or do they really
mean it ?
* * • ■
The Sullivan and Mitchell fight, last
Saturday, in France, seems to have been a desperate
one, according to the only authentic cable received
in Sydney. It lasted three hours, and ended In
a draw after 39 rounds, each man having an arm
and several ribs broken ! This effectually die-
poses of the long-prevalenb idea that no man on
earth could Bband before J. L. Sullivan for six
rounds.
• • •
“ Don't forget that Carlyon Is the beat of
White’s horses, and will, all being well, start
first favourite for the Australian Cup,” said The
Bulletin some weeks ago. Yet no other paper
in the colonies tipped Carlyon to get a place in
the Cup, or even suggested that the colt could
beat Nelson for the Easendon Stakes.
• * *
When prize-fighting was in its golden
prime, the articles and necessary arrangements
of a merry mill were drawn np in the back par-
lour of a pub., for men were mostly godless in
those days. But we note with pleasure that two
amateur pugs, of Footecray (Melb.) fixed up their
little affair at a Salvation Army meeting, under
cover of a capting’s “ hernest hexortation to all
brethering present." As a police-report put it —
“ The men, with their companions, while within
hearing of those conducting the religious service,
arranged the preliminaries of a fight,” In point
of faot they arranged it over their Bibles, just as
Emperor William and Moltke mapped out their
invasion of France. (Voices from the platform
and back seats alternately.)—
“ Repent while there is time, my brother! ”
“ G'on, yer ! you're another.”
“ Where will you go to when you die ? ’’
“ I’ll wipe yer in the bloomin’ eye."
“ To Hell, dear friends, without a doubt.”
“ S'help me, come and have it out.”
“ O ! my brethring, fire a volley,”
“ I'll put my bit on Jop, by golly 1"
“ And let us seek the Loard to night.”
“ Fred’s a hot ’un with his right.”
“He’s the sinner’s only hope."
“ Ready ? Right yer are—let’s slope.”
The aforementioned mill was conducted in a ker-
ristian spirit on the quiet side of the Saltwater
River, and Heaven saw that it was good. Both
principals were pummelled into pulp, after which
the least pulpy one took up a collection for the
weaker vessel, and the meeting sang a hymn and
slowly dispersed. Even prize-fighting is becom-
ing purified by the all-powerful influence of
religion.
• • •
They say that several of the “ books ” got
a severe knook last week.
• • •
In the England v. Australia match at
Melbourne, Attewell took 12 wickets for 48, and
he followed this up with six wickets for 80 in the
first innings of Victoria, At the present moment,
Lohmann, Attewel', Briggs, and Preston (although
neither of them so gacd as Turner) form a quar-
tette of bowlers against which no team in the
world could hold out for longer than a day. And
yet a lot of old women talk about widening the
wickets to give the poor bowlers a chance !
* • •
Hales’ latest Flemington record was some-
thing to make a note of. Riding in 15 races he
scored 11 wins and one tight second, and a sove-
reign invested on all his mounts brought a net
profit of £25 14s. at starting prioea. The popular
verdiot was that marriage has agreed with
Thomas.
• * •
Mr. White relied on Abercorn in the
Champion because he was determined to win the
race with a horse of his own breeding, after the
ohestnut had romped in owner and jockey shook
hands, as tbey did over the victories of Volley,
Cranbrook, and Carlyon.
• * •
HaW finest finish at the V.R.C. meeting
was on Ambition, whom the lucky man fairly
lifted home in the last stride. By the way, they
do say that Hales is so closely identified with the
nominator of Ambition (Mr. W. S. Mackenzie)
that you cm hardly tell t’other from whioh.
• • •
No wonder international cricket goes flat
in Melbourne. Not since Ivo Bligh’s visit has any
British eleven been beaten on the M.C.C. ground.
• * *
It Is hinted that the Britishers were
bowling soft, with an eye to next day’s gate, when
Blackham and Jones whacked up 50 runs in 27
minutes last Friday afternoon.


McLEAN BEOS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*2r
c
<2
%fißo 6^
IRONMONGERS
512
p
o
3
REG?
H
b
SPECIALITIES:
Bavis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATE® WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER'S. JEANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &c.
COMPOUND
essence op dandelion
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
MjiotitD, Liver and Eidisy lisorderi.
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
S LITER PILLS act an a valuable aperient and tonic In conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSKNOE.
—:o:
S ESSENCE OF DANDELION, 6s. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, Is. pe>
Box. .Of all Chemists.
Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
ct wi« on Sculp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
it,l
S 3
Zi’Jf*
Scrofula on Nock.
to SCROFULA
tini? U r RING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
MhJ!*’ etching and Burning Skin Torture*,
Tt i* I*l© jdioouj BKin, ana oc&ip, witn
®hTion» a *£? * rom infancy to old age, are cured by
U»tern«n Hebolvext, the new Blood Purifier,
’ ?, nd Cutiouba and Ccticuba Soap, the
“Wn Cure* and Beautifier*, externally.
uSsr.ft
» -«wr*' a and Burning Skin Disease*,
Itchin- ’ s ar her*’, Grocer*’, washerwoman’* Itch,
V» b 0 th and Delicate Irritation* peculiar
JJUh ri. * exe8 * instantly relieved by a warm bath
? Ij Tiottt, TloUka Soap and a single application of
dally ttle great Skin Cure. This repeated
*d,,V hree dose* of Cuticuba Resolvent,
cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
all other mean* absolutely fail.
' ~—- — —..—
Popular Work on the Skin,
Plate*, is wrapped about the Re-
•hbilv Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
«*P®at th)° rn to before the British Consul, which
I° r Btor y : I have been a terrible sufferer
been diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Of m v T n „ oW iged to shun public places by.reason
sfis-rs guring humors: have had the best phy !
ho reiipf have e Pent hundred* of dollars, and got
*hl C h tmtil I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
5* Pure ft Ve cure d me, and left my skin and blood
kook ?« t? a uhdd’s. gend for our sixty-four page
1 tio w to Cure Skin and Blood Disease* ”
Australian Consignees,
*• T owns * Co., New South Wale*.
CUTICURA RESOLVES, ,the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hencs
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beantifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Por Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
ili ujjgtsts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
&e.»ki'ud. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
Cuticura Soar, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ino dOAP, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared rt tkb
Potter Or hr Jk Chemical Co., Beites, M.B.A.
Mr**
Kx-
V
ED At
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
EIDINBUBG-H.
«. OUNTNOHAMB, Bond-lteMb. BydMf
In bulk
and case,
Best BRER
in the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotelo.
rjUM
BANK OF NSW IBALAMD.
Bydhb* Bkakohhbi
II PITT-BTRBBT, and 588 GEORGK-BTREET,
Paid-up Capital m *1,000,008
Reserve fund M m 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the prlnolpal cities
throughout the UNITBO STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Bxchange, Commer
olal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour*
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Of
fixMi
P -I L 3®
&
an admitted by those
sands to be worth k
9nia«> a Box tor bilious
and nerroua disorders.
Back m wind and pair
in the stomach, sick
keadaohe, giddiness,
fnlness and swelling
after meals, dissiness
and drowsiness, cold
•hills, Anohinas of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costire-
ness,scurry, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dr earns, and all
Karroos and trembling
sensations, kc. The first
dose will gire relief is
This U m fiction, for they- hay*
.t im thousands ®f JUei. Every sufferer is
astly Invited t« try en® box of the** Pill*. and
&Mgr wM 1m acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOA
Wm- ftnualM of all age* these Pill* are invaraaoi®,
SB a g®w do*** of there carry off all grow humours,
gjpa sill obstruction*, and bring about all that it
No female should be without them. There
2b 'mt to be found to equal BEKCHAM’S
lIBM for removing any obstruction er irregularity
g$ tha system, If taken accoading to the directions
glsesi with each box they will soon restore female* of
afi age* to sound and robust health.
SVf a weak stomach, impaired digemn>>u and ah
iSiaerders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC/’ and a
flow 4ose* will be found to work wonder* apon th*
Moat important organ* of th* human machine. They
sfesagthen the whole muscular system, restore th*
teBg4o*t complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the B.QBISBITD
health the whole physical energy of the human
feast*. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousand*
esabrasing all classes of society; and on* of th®
hast guarantee* to the nervou* and debilitated is„
Brneham’t Pill* have the largest sale of any patent
in th* world.
BKBCHAifS MAGIC COUGH PILLS
A* a sremedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
-BHlty in Breathing, Shortness pf Breath, Tightness
@ad Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &o„ thee*
gill* stand unrivalled; and any one labouring tender
ssssy of the above complaints need anly try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
garni© for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
aoarseaess, and Oppression of the Chest. They
K 3
fhey give
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
'fected, dangerous complaints. Bet any person troubled
with any of the above complaints give BsboxjlX’s
Sevan rats a trial.
Th* moat violent Cough will in a short tim* be
88moy®d, »
CJAtmo*.—The public are requested to notice that
&fe® word* " Bsiohjlm’* Pills, Bt. Helen*,” ar* on the
®ev«mm*nt Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills,
M aot on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
Ike proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
:saaoa*Mr», England, in boxes at Is. lfd. and 2*. Ad,
t@ah.-~Sold by all Druggists and Patent lt*dicin*
HStotor* throughout the Colonies. A
.¥l9ll (iirsctiorx* we given with ewtite hast
Commercial Hotel, Bympie, Queensland.
THE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S A
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Good Medals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET I WOOD VIOLET
TREVOL I CHYPRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled lor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOILETTE DE IGNORES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors
Of all Dealers, and o> the Manufacturers — :
i J & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
. Trade Mark—‘“'White Hose” on" Golden
Lyre.”
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 209 Kent-street,
isydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Guinness* Extra Stout.
roan qdaußi
BASS’ PALS ALE.
SOLS PURVEYORS to Uto
MMIUK AXB IH9IAX 10TE3N8989
LONDON.
By Speolal Appotntmsnti!
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W BALCHIN, JOHNSTON i CO.,
CmMNbl Chambers, Beid-iiifK, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fco.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREBSj
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J, CRAMP, Propbibtob (late of RookamptaaN
CONDUCTED on the same principle as toe
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prloes as follows i—6b. per diem, All meals Is, Mj
5
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
ONI
MAS IN
SHAM
D* - RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS at INVALIDS
enormous sale In EuglajMjJ
and.lti .bow feeing Introduced late tfiff
Colonlsi.
{Every Stored*eep«r should g&t a
*km mother will certain]J
use IV
i&nZmXI>GU $ ItOYAJL FOOD
M.QHDON <JI NCVAKD.
*OIHTCAST LE&SQH/S
mm FACTORING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFAUTME
NEWEST SHAPES.
And •>" Q-JHig*
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda a cure Solatdoa.
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility,* Do*
presslon of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains In Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects.
The ourative properties of these Hot Baths an
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths. J
GENUINE SODA WATER.
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
THE
Mi Ml Water
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W*
First-class Family and Commercial HoteL
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every trala,'
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor,
Good Sample Booms.
*mi ibfms
Copyrighted.
MOMt^sTTiTTOrrr
i tioyd'e Beard Elixir did thin,
land mill do it on either bald
'head or ban fact- Form
heavy Mouetache in from 3 to
* weekti and never faile. '30,000'
young men already merer full
Copyright***
beards, having used lto 3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, cirlM
in effect. Packets, Is. (id. sack, l for 3». B d., post paid, ten* under
tover, free from observation, Address, Frank Vouglai, Sole Agent,
Box TSO f O P. 0., Sydney, NS.tr
T
O JOBBING PRINTERS, fcCb
To bo sold, a large quantity of Old Type aul
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin" Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.


yjwl-
RCYAL
MW<l|
ER
Pur©!
for quick baking. Raises bread, bisoul ts, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
roast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, render!
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby Baving a lai
percentage of Its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunlty. Maintains Its full
strength In any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Ckrrerament, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdm Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss ft Co.,
N.S.W.
P. R. T.ARICTTU
WHLOEJBALH AND BBT AIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS!—
8 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
8 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes' Rnm
1 Bottle £ld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Seonrely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the Oity, on receipt of AS
Christmas and Holiday Snppliee executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WtLES HOTEL.
CORNER OF GEORGS AND GIPPS STRBBTS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, TBO Gborob-stbbbt.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIITsiNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 Gborgb-sikbbt, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
XTBIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STRUM, WYKYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melboarn# and London,
ILLUSYKAnE OAXAbOOUM WISH PXIOI USX, IKBI OH APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
ram, rim riot
Biu pro
For Arclstlo Posing and Eileetlvo
combining softness and brilliansy
Photographs of
GHARLEMONT ft
ROYAL AROADIi
STAND PRE-BMINBNTIT A*®**
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate!
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STR®***'
BRISBANE,
JOE. BARRINGTON,P*<»*^>
Excelsior hotel, charters tows**
Second Brick Hotel Building erected » ■ p,
wn, situated corner of Gill and Churon-sw""
_ W. M, GOUGH, ProlggS>
MOXJJSrT* MORGAN
QUISIBLAID IlTlfllil Ho** &
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully dons
is now ready for the reception or M#a j|
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER,
The Wonder of the Iflfc **
COLEMAN E and Sons,
awarded First Prise at the AdeW«
tion for their PURE VOLATILE 0
OIL. The only known cure for A»thß»a_ l |||
affections of the oheßt. We have
testimonials than any medloine before **■ inp
This Is a genuine artiole. Posted to
on receipt of stamps. Prioe, Is. Bd.
Wholesale Sydney Agent, W. C. SMIT »
Cook-street, Moors
GREAT S-A-X.
OX 1
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Startling reductions for a limited period, for Cash only, in consequence of the Premises having been sold and great alterations pending.
COUNTRY ORDERS, WITH REMITTANCES, WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPOBTKRS and ICANUFAOTURIERB •(
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Wave, Pig and Sheet Lead, Speltev, Ae.
■rase and Ball Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Oopparsmithing, BtaoksmltMng, Plunking,
Quitting, Tank and Girder Building, Bleotrlo and Pneomatlo Bell-itfclng, of arnr deserlptten,
BOULTON'S "FLUSH," “VALVB," and "PAN" OLOSNTS, "VACUUM" WATBK-
WASTN, PBBYKNTBRS, As.
gale Ageata (er Verity Bna, Patent Air Pre»cllere, IzhaiM Fan Oewia. San Kiel, takwreg
Warmers, eta.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQIJARIE PLACE,
SYDNHY.
Fuix Paanccnuna am Psioa on Amrannoa,
ALFRED LAWRENCE and G*
188 OOLUNS-STRBBT, WEST,
91 PITT'STIU»V,
BREWERS and .aerated Water Maker* Machinery and Appliances, Books on Browini gSt&j!
making. Dr. Griefendorffa Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Grlefendorff a Bohemian ' V
Dr. Griefendorffa Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorffa Quinine Wine. Utica and fftf
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Teaat Presses and other aorta. Llgnosote for
and casks. Boakea Liquid Albumen Wine Flnlnga. Thermometers, Saocharometers,
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Reolpes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, w
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, tea. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application,
Publishing Office of
TUB AUSTRALIAN BREWERS' JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AW®
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
an***
'THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE, j
Toylorßro-
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Cocoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS. OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, BOULBURN.N.S.W.
fniSST'OLABB aeaommodaaion In nommsioUl
W iBntilemenaado«aiße». P*iv«Malltli4l rtenu,
BttSla room!. JAMBS BIMCWB. Puiriitoi.
HOTEL, EAST-STREET, BOOK-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings i—The “Western Cham-
«<*»" says t “I can recommend the Rockhampton
(MOnle to my western friends. 1
KKW ZBAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TBSTIMOHIAU
from the Bonden Contingent Hoeplte'
Oorp*; »l*o from eminent Doctor* Mid
Btndenti from Brdner HoipiUl
MONK'S
rill HIITIBI,
la.6d.pw Bottle.
Aak tor It and taka no anbatltnta.
la an invalnabla aura. Bee teitlaaonlaU.
MONK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Dlarrbrae Mliton,
▲ positive cure. Sold by all Chemists,
is. fid. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE.
Ss. fid. per bottle,
Sole Agents i
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
.01 PITT STRBKT, BXDNKXI
AMD
ii Liras Collins Street Bast, Melboubnk,
T o
BB LET.—STORES adjoining “ Bulletin 1
Office, Pitt-etreet. Apply, tihiqi Office.
rbmbp!
'
A SOVEREIGN
T# a.l Afflicted with Kh mtsMAWO
Doiobbox, Aoaiwa Paiets In the *•*
Faob, or Hbad. *
War suffer those excruciating Pain* **
OR. SOUTHAM S >t RHKOMAWCI jj{
will give Instant Relief and Cure In • *jg r'
The Australian Remedy. No ohan*®*jp
necessary In Bottles, Is., 9s. Bd., W** *
CURB FOR BLIGHT'
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED BYE
This Lotion is the Best and Safest R®®®:? o*s
Eyes. It not only oures Swelling
Blight, but strengthens the sight. No®*
tlmonlals from those who have recovery
Its agency oan be Been. Admitted by
Faculty to be the safest and beat
rnputd bv Uto Sols Prowls***
H, A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical
531 Qeorae-street, avSs
Q. S. OUBTIS
Auctioneer & Real Property
ROCKHAMPTON.
L.R.C.P., Ed£. L.R aS. and t£3f?S
registered in Great Britain and New p®
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princess
Resident Medical Officer to the French ,j jfpP'
London, specialist for the treatment ot d
and Heart Diseases, Ac. r
Consultation by letter or
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8,
Hunter-street, Sydney.
T. P. WIESE NEE, Watchmaker, Jeweller, Optician and Scientific
The Only Ploxc in the Colony where Goods in this line are Manvfacturca by Stearns
Instrument Make* 1 *
INDEED, the Industrial Hive at 334 GKEORU-E STREET has sprang into exlsteaoe and grown tj its present dimension and importance, “at the edge of the forest," unprotected
life and unaffected by Old World Competition. The Miin Support has been a favourable Public Opinloa, which has grown with the establishment. The Foundation was soil® 1 '
80 years ago, on the sound principles of PLAIN FIGURES, MODERATE PRJFITS, FIXED PRICES and CONSTANT PERSONAL SUPERVISION. -ejptf
T, F. W.'s Intimate and personal knowledge of the home markets of England., Fra ica ami Ginany (b Hides being a Cash Buyer), gives him advantages possessed by few competitors.
and materials for their manufacture in Sydney are landed here without the two, three, or more middlemen's profits. The latest and best variety in Watches, Jewellery, Spectacles, Telesoop® o *
Field Glasses, Levels, Theodolites, eto. Special Goods made to Order at the Import Depot and Steam Factory of
T„ IP „ WI HSH NB R, 3 3 GEORGE 8 T R U H T, S V D 5T B TT.
