

HiOOET ©TXT POE
‘The BULLETIN’S”
ANTI-CHINAMAN!
S E C X -A. L XT XT IB E XS.
profusely illustrated.
3ZbLOTxrin.gr ’WZb.37-
MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
T° ensure supply, distant agents will please mail their orders at once.
¥
EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
& Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Ss t,f ot ' V(i iitn B v lficent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
NA ,\ r c °nsiderdtion, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
“ % perfect. Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
K
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
&P E R RIN S' SAU G£
*n
'*M Ur; S fr Uence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE?
Hv e Which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Perrins
k k ‘ ■ 1
' vnich are calculated to aeceive me x
Otar* ;r re vuesi that Purchasers see that the Isabel on every bolt
tfl eir o • .
Signature thus -
no
bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE!
SAUCE is genuine.
W fay
°nd
Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
" and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ;. Crosse and
<&V., <&v. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
MoNTnanoßE, Jqbspb & Cto; DavS> Cohen 1 & C(f.. Sydney.
THK
“ PLUM
RAZOR/’
IHB
‘ PLUM
RAZOR."
FOR private use Is unsurpassed. «e> nine German Hollow Ground, set ready lor use. Never
requires grinding, and »e guprantae it toe cwo (2) years. PRICK, 10s. 6d. each. Send P.O. Order.
CE3-A.XO- and -^XT'IESIEIfcT,
POTOSI HAIR DRESSING SALOON,
. f!Bn ORORGK-STREKT. BRICKFrELT) HILT,. RVTSNWV.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
•hite and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvms, and delight-
fully fragrant breath can beet be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powoer* and acid waste*
(fully fragrant
end niing daily
or Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherch* ingredients of the Oriental
' ‘ * iy gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and n
herbal, and warranted free from any
pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure and
mon-gritty tootl powder: such ROWLANDS’ ODONTOJias always proved itself,
• No other'Odonto is genuine.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL „
fair and goiden-haireil people and children. /
sold In a golden colour for;
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Aak anywhere for ROWLAND®*
articles. of 20, Hatton Harden. London. r,nd avoid spurious and pernicious imitations.
".Vho'+f.a.o £.nd Retail Agthfis—Aju.iorr Bros., and B. Prosser iCo , Sydney
The Bulletin


Hotels.
Belle Vue Hotel,*
BRISBANE,
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
* and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOE NINETY.
A Waiter meets every Steamer.
Letters and Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M., COLLINS.
M
INING EXCHANGE
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
HOTEL,
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
Commercial hotel,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLANI).
First-class Accommodation for Commercial Gentle-
men and Families. Private Sitting-room without
extra charge. Plunge and Shower Path. Billiards
(Alcoek’s). First-class Chef. Charges strictly
moderate. Wines and Spirits of the best brands.
Man meets every steamer.
HANRAN, Junk., Proprietor.
M P O R TAN T
N O T 1 C E.
Mr. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry & Bolton)
■wishes to inform the numerous friends of the Firm
and the travelling public that he has gone to
Mount Morgan to take charge of the SuNPI Kh L
HOTEL, which will henceforth be carried on under
his personal supervision. Sunburst Hotel, Mount
Morgan, centrally situated, and facing the cele-
brated mountain. Persons visiting the celebrated
Mountain will find every comfort and convenience
to greet them on their arrival. BILLIARD TABLE
and PIANO on the PREMISES, also STABLING
for the accommodation of THIRTY HORSES, and
a good PADDOCK within five minutes’ walk of
the Hotel. Coaches Daily from and to Rock-
hampton. Note the address
MICHAEL BOLTON
(of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HO T E L,
Mount Morgan.
FITZROY
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
Palace family hotel,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
T irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admit ted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor.
JAY’S P -iINOB OF WALE 3* HOTEL,
ST. KILDA.
THIS first-class Hotel offers superior accommo-
dation to visitors and residents, being in a
healthy and central position, fronting the Bay,
near Esplanade and Baths, and within five minutes
walk of the St, Kilda Railway Station. Private
suites of apartments, ladies’ drawing-room, gentle-
men’s smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
M A C K A V.
UNSURPASSED Accommodation for Com-
mercial Travellers and Families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy Meets Every Steamer.
I make comfort of Travellers a Special Study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
N.S.W. Fir St-class Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets
every train. .T. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
- Good Sample Rooms.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J, CRAMP, Proprietor date of Rockhampton).
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows: —6s. per diem. All meals Is. Od.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
E
T> NOELS I OR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Ho'el Building erected in above
town, situated coiner of Gill and Church Streets.
10 W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotels
” 20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stock'd with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. 11riser, Proprietress.
Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, BOULBURII. N.B.W.
FIRSI'#LASS accommodation for commercial
gent'men and others. Private Sitting rooms,
sample rooms. JAMES SIMONS. Proprietor.
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock-
HAMPTON. —T. MURPHY, Proprietor;;
Wayside Gleanings : —The “ Western -.Cham s
pion says : “I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to'my western friends.”
jyj“OUNT MORGaN HOTEL, QUEENSLAND.
Under the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
cellency Sir Musgrave K.C.M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
the balconies a splendid view i--an be obtained of
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
mioutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
and mail coaches daily from Rockhampton and
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
prietor, of the firm of Monekton and to.
Business Announcements
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
■ w ILIMITED.
MI M f
HEAD OFFICE f CORNER OF PITT AND
MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council,
CAPITAL, £.500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq.,M L.A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq.
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills discounted, and makes advances
upon all kinds of C immercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed
at call, 3 per cent.; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, o per
cent.; 12 months, 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'NAMAItA, Secretary.
rpHOMA'S BUCKLAND,
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT,
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
~ ~ Langland's Foundry Co., Melbourne, Yic.
E. ID. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
gTU DY
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
corered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Kepairs n'eatly executed
THE ORICINAL
Baking Pr
< WAUGH'S
0
OBTAIN tO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERII
~ VVT
- 7.
*4 ;*
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD
NONE OTHER BUT
VVAUC H S
REC E : V t;) Th t !NTIRNAT I ON A l
PRIIEMCDAL
II ATI UFA CTU RED BY JaMES CHAWKMI
Harbour S t Syorit
m fialdbyAfl C*oc«r»an<l Steritaptt*
High-Class Dentistry | at Reform Tricks.
CoMpuetes ET
'<)
MARSHALL BRO:
£ -CtNTI^tS
u
i
mm
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrous oxide
gas daily_at.ll.
Business
18 II
DJXSON & SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
DIXSON * SONS' CONQUBBOB *jjj
not only manufactures MOB*
THAN ANY OTHER, bat w
BULK OP THE AMERICAN I*® .
iito Now South Wales, and hones the
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greate* sale than «»
Australia. , \ r
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR ROD» bB
gold leaf. v- f
DIXSON-S CUT RUBY, OBI ® NT
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’ 8 No l ®
10,000 per hour, the oholoeßt
TTllll
and Paris rice tissue. r
retailers at 3d per packet. 10
COLLINS-PLACE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
' t otters ft® 0
Comfoi’t to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. L
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. olo>
MRS M. COLES.
J3&ojy H3JW&B Ai MMOIMJAt A&OIDVJ 13DUJ& fV?H
aiS-9
y sdJV /Jjy
I pjvivi .
OH* /
?*j?J y»tutmoiftimiinn'iilM|(Miiii»miu»J>niii(tii
■ »
iim7m
wHwif.iinwifuWnUriiiit
soya svwaavH
Business Announcements.
QXJEIEIISrSL^IsriD.
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227' Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Plicenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
E CAN .RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AG E N T S.
Head Office ;
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND ” EMPLOYMENT An,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH*STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
timply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT,
GURES ALL PAIN*
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA. HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, fcc.,
and taken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
Lff'M’ual aches and pains.
Price, 2./- sold Everywhere
C. E. MOULTON, 30U mreiETQR,
jIELBOrfiNK AND BYDNEV;
PAINT
Business Announ^.
$
REMINGTON
rjIHE
Saves labour, stationer
than expert pen-men, ar d cona
one-half th<
copies may be taken in the usual u“--r .gen-,.
Sold wholesale and retail by the 00 ™ j
R
M. ft
(late of the
Private Inquiry, Missing
Business Agenof
42 ROYAL ARCAD®. ° y
Absconders and wife deserters
confidential inquiries instituted,
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary
fession and others. Copies of wit u
marriage, or death, obtained to a «t. Bu;
Bents and debts collected. From t l ./“ J
In the Detective Force of New South f ip .
New Zealand, and established
globe, he is in a position to conduct »*'4 jji
expedition and strictest secrecy, „ a ted l '
promptly attend to all business entru
PRESORtI^P
be found In 0
LIFE," for the Speedy Care M
bility and Kindred Diseases. jv &
hnntr will Via Hfinh Frfifl. 8 1
book will be sent Free, sei
Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.
Sydney Phar
76 Hunter
i. STEVENS 11
HAS ON
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ - flip
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISRAg, r
CHEESE VATS, CIICRA
BUCKETS, ,v,
387 KENT STREET, and 17*
Between King and M®
A SOVEREIGN
To all Afflicted with $
Doloreux, Aching PaiN® 1 ■
Face, or ,J*
Why suffer those excruciating ~,
bottle of ,#*
bU**V/
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHE - ygm
will give instant Relief and OU
The Australian Remedy. 1 s,■
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 23>
CURE FOR
ROSE’S CELEBRATED
'l’his Lotion is the Best and S* l jli l
It not only cures
Eyes. „
Blight, hut strengthens the si»
timonials from those who te i/
ut I Jr
its agency can be seen. Ad^^o 11
Faculty to be the safest and i )0
ft 4
Prepared by the Sole
H, A. RASE, Pharmac^ 1
531 G-eorge-stre 0 '


The bulletin
VoJ. 9—No. 425.
SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1888,
Price, 6d
Penny Wise, but not £ Foolish.


IjOOK wi t for
11 The Bulletin's" Anti-Chinaman,
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILL USTRA TED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
WILL BK PUBLISHED ON
Thursday, April 12.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please mail
their orders at once.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
The Bulletin
HATUBDAY, MARCH 31.
The Clergy man the Cosmos .
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
terms to subscribers
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per A mum ... £.l Os. Od
Half-yearly ... •••
Quarterly ... ••• 0 6s. 6d
Cheques, Drafts, <tc., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Corresimidence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other A rticles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not, exceeding taco columns m
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those, sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ire are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
y sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stampsofany Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to reside its of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
The death of William, Emperor of Ger-
many, was ecclesiastically recognised in Aus-
tralia on 18th March by commemorative
services of a specially solemn character, and
Pastor Jefferis, LL.D., of Sydney, seized
upon the event to glorify Protestantism and
burn a sacerdotal taper at the crumbling
shrine of the Aryan race. A remarkable de-
livery concluded with the following remark-
able sentences :
“Let me beseech you, as constituent members of the
governing body of this country, to do all in your power to
foster and strengthen the union of the Teutonic peoples.
Their confederation concerns the world at large. With
the best influence they severally wield, with the prestige
of their name, with the advance of their civilisation, with
their inborn genius and the power of a progressive faith,
Germany and England and America may determine the
destiny of the world. Blessings unborn to unborn genera-
tions will'follow their union. Woes undreamt of would
spring from their fratricidal strife. May the God of the
Cosmos join us yet more closely together for the welfare
of humanity and* the glory of Christ.”
* *
As a philosopher Dr. Jefferis takes a
fajther humorous view of the Cosmos. Else-
>f thsre in his sermon he said :
they were what they were to-day because their
fair,tors lived before them,, and the single soul could not
he separated from the race, as humanity was one in
Adam and one in Christ.”
But he immediately transgresses his own
doctrine, and following the example of the
ancient J ews, who claimed their own race as
that one especially set apart for exhibitions
of divine favour, Dr. Jefferis pronounces
in favour of the Teutonic as God’s chosen
upon earth. He selects the German, the
English, and the American nations as his
“ peculiar peoplewith a keen eye to nations
and very little regard to races. They are
not, however, the same, though the doctor is
charmingly oblivious of the fact. The Eng-
lish people itself is very composite in its
character, • and the American people . still
more so; there is a tremendous mixture of the
Celtic in both. Then, again, why does the
doctor exclude Norway, Sweden and Den-
mark ? The people of these lands are
Teutons. They belong to the Scandinavian
branch of the Teutonic race, and are quite
as much entitled to the generic term as the
German branch. The backbone of the
French nation is of a Frankish, i.e. , a Ger-
man origiir, and a very considerable per-
centage of Russia’s subjects are also Ger-
man. But the doctor is exclusive on one
point : Protestant Teutondom is the one
thing needful in a “chosen people!”
If we admit this, how are we to ac-
count for the magnificent endurance of
the Austrian Empire—which, although
partly Teutonic, is likewise Roman Catholic —
in its amalgamic solidarity ? Yet what amaz-
ing tenacity of life the empire has shown ;
what splendid fortitude under crushing de-
feats ; what sublime heroism in adversity,
and what remarkable elasticity in the re-
newal of its vigour ! But Dr. Jefferis cares
little about facts. His imagination leaps
over the gulfs of time, and plunges into the
realm of poetry with a beautiful indifference
to history :
“ Germany and England were united in race. Indeed,
the whole race, of one blood, descended from one pair of
ancestors."
Does this mean that our first parents were
Teutons to the exclusion in their progeny of
all other strains l The doctor, it must be
remembered, is here talking of nations and
not of races. In a little while he admits
America to this holy confederacy ; but what
curious ethnology ! As a nation Germany is
as composite as England or America. With-
in the boundaries of Fatherland many peoples
are gathered together under one government.
But what can be expected from a parson who
quotes Shem, Ham and Japhet as the fathers
of the Semitic, the Turanian, and the Aryan
races, although according to this derivation
of the families of men, the Negro, the Malay,
and the North American divisions of
humanity never had any fathers !
Dr. J efferis argues that because the
peoples of the United States of America, of
the British Empire, and of the Germanic
Empire are mainly in their racial com-
position Teutonic, and mainly in their
religion Protestant, they will, therefore, one
day coalesce in a vast empire which shall
overshadow the earth. But the d octor for-
gets that peoples, like trees, become woody
and perish of dry-rot—as lifeless as mere
withered daddocksand stunted growths when
they have grown too long in a soil ; when
they have sacked all the strength from the
ground ; when their tap-roots no longer lap
up nutriment and moisture from the lower
strata. They have struck rock ; they have
completed their ideal ; they l ave filled up
the measure of their iniquity. Their vitality
is departing ; they love rich clothes and
superfine dishes, and delight their senses
with tender strains and subtle perfumes that
awaken the softest emotions, but which ren-
der men up jit to do battle against either foe
Man or f;)'|i Nature. Every nation has an
ideal > inch it strives to realise. Once
realised, or lost, it must get another ! Should
it fail in its quest after a faith, God help it !
Its existence is already measured out; its
tap-root no longer draws moisture from the
earth ; its meaning as a nation has disap-
peared from the dictionary of Fate. There
are a few infallible signs by which Dr. Jef-
feris may prognosticate a nation’s extinc-
tion. They are these : The sentiments of
personal honour and patriotic pride de-
generate ; the selfish and egotistic instincts
are dominant ; the men cease to marry and
the women suppress the functions of mater-
nity ; people become good by proxy and pay
a parson to pray for them ; the only object in
life becomes the accumulation of money,
even amongst the holiest of men—so-called ;
and the measure of esteem in which a virtue
is held is the market quotation of its an-
tagonist vice. The men, too, of a nation
doomed to speedy decay, although they sell
their souls and their bodies to Mammon
make no use of their booty. The one solace
of their degraded lives is the accumulation
of a golden pile. Knowest thou of such a
race, O Doctor Jefferis !
Every new phase of civilisation is heralded
by an invasion and a conquest. When a
nation becomes outworn, when a civilisation
no longer evidences progressive development,
it becomes the prey of a more vigorous
though less developed nation. The con-
querors are nearly always of an “ in-
ferior race.” They are inferior only in the
sense of not having completed the circuit of
their ideal course. Chinamen came as con-
querors to Europe in the 9th century—a
thousand years ago ; as the Magyars of to-
day they are the backbone of Austro-
Hungary. Mayhap Chinese ancestors of
French Basques were victors at some far-
anterior date. Chinamen behind the heels
of Attila, Jenghis Khan and Tamerlane,
guided the vulture to the feast in the past of
Europe, and yet were they forestalled, for
the Fins and the Laps, their blood relations,
were already settled on the land. At a
later date came herds upon herds of Tartars
and conquered Greece and transformed it
into Turkey. Here was a case of a nation
of the highest type of the boasted Aryan
race succumbing to the prowess of a
Turanian horde—the figure-head of civilisa-
tion conquered by a Chinaman. If Aus-
tralia ultimately falls before the celestial it
will be but a repetition of one of History’s
lessons—a case of a civilised but enervated
people going down before a barbarous but
vigorous one.
* * *
Religions count as nothing in the history
of the world. Christ’s is a faith of yester-
day, and numbers not so many followers as
Buddha’S, whose doctrines date froma far re-
moter antiquity. Napoleon saw the ten-
dency of modern conquest much more plainly
than the good and prosperous Parson Jef-
feris sees it now. He said that within
100 years —say 20 years from 1888—the
whole world would be either Republican or
Cossack. The religion of Protestantism as a
political welding-force is a poor thing beside
the religion of Panslavism. And the Slav is
everywhere. He has his headquarters in
Russia, but he is called by a variety of
names—Pole, Bulgarian, Servian, Bosnian,
Montenegrin, Dalmatian, Croat, Vend,
Slovak, Czech, Bohemian and Moravian.
He belongs to the Lettic tribe, and he
peoples the Lithuania of old ; he serves Aus-
trian or German Emperor, Sultan or Czar,
and—he bides the signal for his exodus.
Only the beggar journeys eastward.
“Go west, young man,” said the
American statesman to the settler. He
went, and those who stopped east became
sapless with luxury and soft living. From
the West poured the hundreds of thousands
who rallied to support “Father Abe;” but
Commerce is destroying, lias almost de-
stroyed, the West in America. Races live fast
nowadays. Sailing westwards, the Yankee
speculator journeys per ’Frisco packet to ex-
ploit Australia. “To the West!” will one
day be the cry in Russia. The French made
a mistake, and shouted “to Berlin !” They
wanted to travel east, and at last met their
doom ; the westward-advancing Germans were
the victors. The Scythians poured in their
hordes, always travelling with the sun. The
Greeks journeyed west from Asia Minor.
The Germans poured from the East into
France, and built up a nation. The Goths
went west and founded Spain. Saxons,
Danish, Norse and French went westward
and fashioned England into a power. English
and Germans settled and civilised America
and Australia—and there is no West! But
there is a South, and the Chinese are journey-
ing thither. It all follows a law of nature,
a strict immutable law. One race is really
no finer intrinsically than another. It is all
a question of development, and the races
most developed are nearer their goal. The
negroes of America may one day—will one
day, according to the law of evolution—dis-
place their white masters. It is not a ques-
tion of armies or of cannon, but of endur-
ance, of vitality and hunger. In one
pai't of his sermon, Dr. Jkfferjs said that
“ the fathers of men multiplied until
the land became too strait for them.”
In this he touches bed-rock, although it is a
rare performance with the dogmatist. He
erred throughout his discourse. He began
by alluding to the Hindoos as an Aryan
people. The Persians or Iranians and the
Brahminical conquerors of Central India
were certainly Aryans, but the Hindoos are
as distinctly Turanian. Yet questions of
race are of small moment, questions of re-
ligion less. The earth was not made for
man ; man is only one of the children of the
earth. He is the outcome of a certain set of
conditions favourable to his existence and
development. Any other set of conditions
might have produced, not men, but croco-
diles- —or only clergymen. Men exist on the
earth, too, just so long as they have plenty
of virility, physical prowess, endurance and
courage. The moment they cease to enjoy
life and begin to fear death they succumb to
a grander physical type- savager, more
courageous and nearer to nature.
• • *
Genius is the sum of a lineage. Hence
there is no transmission of parts. Not a
single man of those whom we are accustomed
to regard as the gods of the human race has
left his line to perpetuate his name, let alone
his quality. Civilisation begins at the wrong
end. It ennobles the son of the great man.
It set-3 the gem in gold after its lustre has
fled. We should ennoble the swineherd in
the hope of a genius at the tenth re-
move. Our expectation, not our regret,
should lie exercised, and our homage to
greatness should partake of a prospective,
not of a retrospective," character. The 24th
bearer of the name of Jefferis, counting
from the present doctor of that cognomen,
may be a great philosopher—the lineage has
not yet had time to conserve its bouquet.
The man who dissipates his energy cannot
transmit it. So with the nation. A l’ace
emigrates and obtains a fresh lease of life
and of racial vigour, provided it takes not
with it to soil favourable for their fruitful
cultivation the seeds of death. In New
York and San Francisco the Americans live
faster than they lived in England, and they
waste their energy in the degrading and un-
reasoning pursuit of wealth, and their physi-
cal vitality in carnal orgies ; while the
fashionable languid life of the American
woman unfits her for maternity-—the Austra-
lian city girl bids fair to become a similar un-
substantial and pipey creature and the pros-
pects for the Australian race are not re-
assuring.
# • *
All professional men treat the parson with
a certain amount of contempt. The efforts
of the evangelical expounder to explain
awa'y the mighty truths of Science by a
puerile theory borrowed from an obscure and
ignorant tribe of cattle-drovers and shep-
herds (by the way they were not even
Aryans) becomes so ludicrous as to be
almost beneath the dignity of incredulity.
The most wonderful thing in the nineteenth
century is the existence of a number of men
presumably well educated who put aside
with a lofty wave of the hand all the evidence
of their senses and all the teachings of
modern science to return to Shem, Ham
and Japhet, and similar childish nonsense.
They imagine that this creation of ours is a
linality. They cannot embrace the prior
existence of differently-arranged universes.
They fail to grasp the splendour of concep-
tion and loftiness of ideal set forth in the
nebular hypothesis of Laplace. Matter to
them is only matter. The notion that force,
energy, matter are simply terms for one
thing never occurs to them. Light; vibra-
tion ; the rapid circulation in space of an in-
visibility which we call ether ; the transla-
tion of light into luminous vapour ; the re-
volution of this fiery universe around its
centre ; its gradual cooling ; the flinging off
into space of world upon world which in
their turn cooled and flung off their satel-
lites ; the slow attrition of rock by ocean ;
the dawning of life from matter ; the develop-
ment of higher and more highly-differentiated
forms of animal existence ; the evolution of
'man ; the gradual growth of social usage ;
all this is to them a dream and a chimera—
because the Bible does not tell them it must
be so. They prefer to believe the most dif-
ficult hypothesis, or series of hypotheses, to
the most easily-demonstrated truth. They
examine a snow-crystal; they see design in the
petals of a flower, and evolution in a butter-
fly ; but to man, to society, to nations, they
deny law and necessity. And it is all the
acceptance of that absurd dogma that man
was put down on a world ready-made, and for
his exclusive benefit. Nature does not pre-
fer the star to the mouse. She makes no
distinction. She slays with indifference.
The fall of earth kills with as little intent
the woodgrub or the w orkman. Battles rage,
and thousands lie in the icy grip of death ;
while overhead a world flames through the
sky to its destruction. Nature is no respecter
of persons. She does not weep at the fall
of the sparrow, or of the emperor. If the
seeds of consumption are in his frame she
spares not the youth who is a Christian,
neither does she make special provision for
England or for Germany. Tf they stand it is
because they have the vigour to stand, and
not because they are Protestant. If they
fall it is because their day has come, and
they have outlived their generation and ex-
hausted their vitality. In the Cosmos there
is no room for ghosts, said one, neither has
chance a place, nor prayer the power to stay
a falling leaf. With Nature nations weigh
no more than grave w r orms.
The Imperial Veto.
The New South Wales Divorce Bill, a measure
passed to relieve, in some degree, the hopeless
misery of unhappy marriages, has been sent to
England for the consideration of her gracious
Majesty and Co.—and has been ignominiously
shelved. Tavo measures of a similar character,
also drawn up for the purpose of breaking the
chains of lifelong slavery, have reached London
on previous occasions, and both shared the same
fate. The British Government expresses, in
pompous phrase, its opinion that it is “inexpe
dient to enlarge the grounds on which divorce can
be obtained, &c., and British newspapers observe,
with grief, that Australia shows an inclination in
this matter to follow in the footsteps of the United
States and the nations of continental Europe, in-
stead of imitating the “sound and righteous
example ” of the mother country. In other
words, because, in this particular at least, Eng
land stagnates in the rearmost ditch of civilisa-
tion, Australia must not advance, and because the
English woman is the slave of her lord and master,
the women of Australia must likewise be serfs.
In England, the wife is, by law, a beast of burden,
and if, as too often happens, her taskmaster and
owner is a brute, she must endure her lot in
silence and bow beneath the weary burden of her
misery until death releases her. The man to
whom the Church has bound her, body and soul,
may be an irreclaimable drunkard who consigns
his helpless dependants to utter starvation, and
leaves them to the hospitality of the streets, but a
race of fat bishops raise their hands in horror
when men of human sympathies bring forward a
proposition for the relief of the victims, and
crush it with that well-crusted old blasphemy:
‘ ‘ Whom God hath joined let no man put asunder. ”
He may be a degraded criminal whose vices doom
him to pass half an average lifetime in gaol, but
his unhappy partner must labour and starve until
old age creeps upon her in order that an attainted
wretch, when at last he is let loose to prey afresh
upon the world, may find his helot waiting for
him, and may force her by insult and cruelty to
aid him in the perpetration of new crimes. Or he
may be a man who carries the taint of madness in
his blood—a pitiable object who is periodically
consigned to an asylum, but, all the same, the law
of Britain authorises him, if his lucid intervals
are sufficiently well defined to permit of his re-
lease, to claim his wife and force her to become
the mother of a family of maniacs. These are a
few of the features of the British marriage law,
and it is for the purpose of perpetuating this
loathsome female slavery throughout the Empire
that the British Government contemptuously
overrides the almost unanimous decision of the
people of New South Wales. The pretences under
which the Tory Cabinet bars the way of reform
are worthy of the cause in. which they are ad-
vanced. Legal complications, it is alleged, Avould
arise from the want of uniformity in the marriage
law of the Empire :
“ It would make those who were wives or legitimate
children in one country unmarried mothers and illegiti-


chilfl ■
(nuj, aren ln the other ; and an action innocent in one
t EQ j ar . ’ ! )oss >' J ly (as constituting bigamy, if followed by
° wiininal in the other.”
toljf tr , VVorc^s > because a wife is declared by law
| e * ave i n England it would be awkward if
ty a l trea ted as a human being in New South
as the Government does not see fit to
®tst 1 P English woman the Australian woman
V(t|' < ' t ® rac i e( i for the sake of uniformity,
iffi i SO years ago, however, a similar
'tint' 1 ' " as successfully met in the mother
Btit'jf' bflack man was then a serf in the
itself. , Co^on i es and a free citizen in England
uljil ’. e Was a beast of burden in Barbadoes,
tooth Ul k° n< i°f l ho was a human being ;in the
®° Ul *try he was qualified to marry and to
only 1 1 . e > " bile in the dependencies he was
hj'|J lf rm 'h e d to cohabit in order to raise a family
S**.*' | n the slave-market. In those days,
led the van of human progress ;
ijjjio ’ . hgs hopelessly in the rear. And so
hufjjJ? ls fi be to figure as the apostle of latter-day
, sm that she prefers to perpetrate a high-
of Sf ew S l *b'age upon the spirit of the Constitution
bfisi'» oa , Wales rather than permit that colony
Nation' step above her own level of degra-
toifious t th p . uniformity which she is so
‘and an i° establish between the codes of Eng-
b enf(’ c Australia she has never yet dared
Site 1 w *thin her own little island. The
s aim iUvs of Gotland have, for many years,
■" South u as those now advocated in
S, anl Wal 3 and vet no complications hav r e
tootal’f Jf° English Minister has ventured, on
svst ° th( ' r grounds, to force on Scotland the
f| >de a y 0 e ?f "’hich the Salisbury Cabinet is now
tot'ly | ll Hl o to perpetuate in the colonies. Pos-
ll, -V(. r i ‘'"^ Ver , the heads of the Colonial Office
fS'ar<.' U< the existing Scotch code ; possibly
.'b'-it ■ U j. aw are even of the existence of Scot-
to set bounds to the ignorance
•fieiv English Tory ; and, in that ease,
bit tijj pU*°*l f na y be due to common stupidity,
autaldy trust that this is the case, and
Th„, *. * *
lies between humanity and justice
ancient superstition and priestly
b pfr'fd, 011 the other. The Church is prepared
' v toy isiji " l fffarriage service over any and
of moral leper so long as the leper
'bbsite fee, and, therefore, it supports
bHt(,"tj as a holy institution; but divorce pays
I- is J' instead of the Church, and as
SC to be got out of it, it is
j torlfo] , f Y clergy as an accursed thing. A
..bfltlu! 1 cpl ' ics and clerical supporters consti-
Jtol havi, 0^bos 'tion to the Divorce Bill in N.K.W.,
(l f ,£ l *’en ignominiously defeated by the
‘% e Hn people they resorted to underhand
(lp rj '!°,W rr ide the majority and sent mysteri-
w"’ftino. t ons Ci earwig mouldy officials in
• refit - The cloven hoof* of this holy
V*ble in the childish ignorance of
Hollands despatch. In it he urges
a measure as the Divorce Bill should be
ft of ZS O successive Assemblies as an adequate
it v C feeling, but he utterly ignores the
jA\V f, haa already gone through this ordeal in
Risers tK° m w bich ‘we gather that his clerical
1 thejf U) "ght fit to suppress an important fact
st. J or the great cause of truth. As
i,v'i'jobKj, a ’ l( i at present a miserable handful of
iii 'b bv °i er gymen and their friends are-per-
sb’j clef nieans °t clever underground engjneer-
„,.Vg ‘‘at a reform of national importance, and
(. bus ' a n appeal to the ignorance and super-
of a church-ridden foreign
fCbnij ‘t can retard the march of progress in
a bd t() ‘ a selfish and stagnant minority will be
W i alia I the Strings. The question which
Ani et ow-ri aR settle is whether she is to bended
to, thp t, a ons or by the imported English curate
JCtp Cabinet to which the imported
lj e K about the immorality of the land
dlini in bread and gaiters. If the
% r f’tpu. Wates Divorce Bill is permitted to
to a of snuffle has been inaugurated
v» Church has prevailed against the
CMthis l0n ? a nd if the Church is allowed to pre-
iy C)!) tof u’ ru i,' n stance its snuffle will be carried to
(> IfadifA aeTin ’one on every future occasion when
rp endangered. The British
Aiwbbsai y'as an ear which is always open to
C r ali a :, the party of stagnation, and unless
- 4 »d «° forego all hope of progress she
w yltrioai' the double incubus of Imperialism
j ■ nun—the twin agencies which have
" r n the world for countless generations.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Old Dodge at Work.
is
? TIN »- Many astute storekeepers who
W.,h> Hon" 11113,11 Nature their special study and
Vt, extent found out how it is pieced
WJ •*> W ak,! a practice of secretly adding an
X i for tk nt- to the selling price of sundry
purpose of publicly taking it off
Si','s K i-particular friend..Tf the particular
\{ he ’o'htl.v open to the charge of being a
V 111 L , under the Arcadian impression
N hamd an El Dorado and frequently
Stk’St n rv >hbish for which he has no earthly
T V W the “Good Government" of New
\? eem wishful to represent the cheap
hav fc , m g shopkeeper. For months past
V (» i all - n quietly putting on the 5 per
nil, . °Ulh„ Sl des. From Bathurst and Dublx»
, '*'h and Junee, there has been
'"Hi A ■ sp cret withdrawal of work to
n*C fto a lnilTlp diately after each successive
i .' 8s of the country scores of skilled
iNb hrst aVe received notice, under the
ce of retrenchment, that their ser-
-I(>nger in request. Bathurst com-
S it ‘exT>i <n - ls^v » «-nd although the Minister for
j* ” matters, a local newspaper
i'\v V Hi,.) a quotation from Bhkt Haute
t," 1 '!)),, wJ WflH summed up in four very ex-
has’ “ It’s a d lie.” In the south,
W' l % ef *te a n? de rg°ne a like experienc as re-
t'%.,1 1 on,,' thy absorption of work by Sydney,
J about a hundred men h >
H . C with plenty of spare time
kSm" ill!! 111 after the repast. The temper
KPV ' the centres becoming rather
L !>S(P * g,. 'government see an opportunity of
<X' t ll (J 1 at /h-al of glory at a very little ex-
j John and honest Sir Eneky are
* h» * country, especially those parts
'C'CIX ® B h°wn signs of dissatisfaction, in
V vNt decentralisation. To imagine for
ImNJ 1 ' p k f r hat the systematic transference of
a dozen different places to one
VaXX has been made without the know*
W V l U ef( would require imagina-
H l^dtij. l ? Va lliug those of DOUGLAS B. W.
Hti t] ' x « Y Hallohan, C.M.G. Measures
'■ practical closing of workshops in
several inland cities, and the consequent discharge
of numbers of deserving workmen, are. precisely
;hose which a self-willed autocrat like Sir Henry
Parkes would allow no underling to originate or
carry into effect without direct and express orders.
The tour of the two ancient cronies has a
very obvious meaning. Wherever they stop their
caravan they will assume an air of surprised and
injured innocence, and assure the credulous electors
that, they no sooner heard of the centralising pro-
cess than they determined to check it at once.
The result will be that orders will lie issued, with
all the publicity that inspired paragraphs can
give them, to the effect that local work is to be
effected in local centres. Thus the movable 5 per
cent, added for one purpose will be deducted for
another purpose, and the Government will win a
name for generosity, justice, and —tell it not to
Haynes —will figure as the apostles of decentra-
lisation. See what it is to have a financier at the
head of affairs, and consider what wonders may
lie effected by a judicious manipulation of an
accommodating percentage. Yours, etc., A Ooui.-
burn Native.
♦
Bishop Barry and Religious Instruction.
Dear Bulletin, —Bishop Barry is the apostle of
the order of things that exist. He sees no ad-
vance; no future for humanity. He imagines
this to be the summinn bonum of human develop-
ment and considers it good enough to stop at.
These religious people- who pay their butchers
and bakers with the fruits obtained by the practice
of being religious—are very unimaginative. They
christen a man and finally read the funeral service
over him and suppose that everything ends there.
At the recent synod the Bishop, with possibly the
very best intentions, remarked :
“ When children attained a certain amount of educa-
tion they became disinclined for manual labour, on which
the welfare of the country mainly depended.”
The Primate proposed to remedy this state of
things by the introduction into public schools of
systematic religious instruction. This, un-
doubtedly, is very shrewd. While children were
learning something about the many naughty things
that David did, or perusing the ornamental
blasphemy of a good all-round “cusser like
Habakuk, they could not possibly attain “a cer-
tain amount of education” which should cause
them to become “disinclined for manual labour.”
The probability is that the education they attained
would be nil, and they would be so saturated men-
tally with unpleasant particularsabouttheProphets
and Kings of Israel that they would carefully
shun everything that looked like a book for
ever afterwards. “The welfare of the country, .’
says the Bishop, would suffer. “ The country,”
with good people of cast-iron notions, is not the
people who compose it. With them “ the country
means the bishops, the clergymen, the merchants,
and squatters, and all those who have, by success-
ful exploitation, managed to secure the top rung-
in life’s ladder. A citizen, from Bishop Barry's
point of view, is a man who employs labour.
Bishop Barry does not recognise anything like
evolution. He does not perceive the injustice of
a great section of mentally-starved people, with
stunted capacities, sweating for the greed and
comfort of a small section. The Bishop need not
worry. Nothing that he can do will cause a
stoppage of the machinery set in motion billions
of years ago, and which follows laws of its own
quite irrespective of the opinions of bishops. It
probably has never dawned on his ecclesiastical
brain that the growth of education amongst the
masses is the result of the operation of a
natural law; that the discontent induced by
this education, and the disinclination to
manual labour which is always the cor-
relative of education, is the result of the
operation of another natural law, and that man’s
inventiveness and ingenuity in manufacturing
labour-saving machines is the natural outcome of
a generation that objects to manual labour. But
here the injustice conjes in ! The class which
Bishop Barry and his clergy represent, the well-
fed and idle exploiters, endeavour to prevent the
masses from reaping the fruit of their ingenuity.
They endeavour to appropriate to a small section
those benefits which should accrue to the whole.
The educated man prefers to work with his brains
rather than with his hands. We never saw the
Bishop or any of his clergy ploughing a field,
digging a garden, or shingling a house. Too well
educated to do that ! The Bishop imagines that
by keeping the mind of man maundering around
the antique superstitions of the past, its owner will
be reconciled to manual labour. Let him make no
mistake. The religious workman prefers to put
on las coat, and earn an easy livelihood in the
copra-trade evangelising the nigger. Hut the par-
son’s hold has been so weakened of late that the
anti-religious Agnostic professor is quoted from in
support of a religious training. Professor Huxley
is made to say that
“ He could not sco any possibility of the religious
education of the masses of the people except through the
Christian religion.”
Now, not a word is here said of Professor H ux-
ley’s idea of the necessity of teaching religion.
According to the Primate’s quotation the Pro-
fessor simply says that if a religious education
is desired to be taught it must be a “Christian
religious education.” This goes for nothing !
Professor Huxley recently spoke in London to
the effect that a nation depended for its vitality
upon the soundness of its industrial population.
If such a basis were unsound, ignorant, depraved,
and dirty in its habits and its morals the nation
which was reared upon it was fast tottering to
its fall. Huxley pointed out conclusively that if
the intellectual well-being of the great mass of
the people was allowed to drop out of sight, no
amount of arithmetical prosperity,, no quantity, of
imposing tabulated trade-returns meant anything
but ruin. The spurious sort . of Chris-
tianity, which has been taught in England
for years has bi-ought about the present
hideous result, and Bishop Barry asks Australia
to adopt it in order to ensure plenty of " manual
labour ” for the class to which he belongs. 1 ours,
<fee., Cornstalk.
Carroll's Confession.
I t would be interesting to know by what course of
reasoning the English police authorities have
arrived at the conclusion that “the man Car-
roll’s ” confession is unworthy of credence.
Under the influence of rum, Carroll staggered
into the arms of the Sydney local myrmidons of
the -v. and stated that in 1871, when he wore the
Queen's uniform, and stuffed soiled linen inside
his jacket to give himself :> martial chest, he com-
mitted a certain Eltham murder. Doctors ex-
amined Carroll to discover, if he >' <s a crank, but
their verdict was unanimous in favo. of. his sanity.
The “confession” was wired “horn.- and with
surprising alacrity the Scotland Yard pc >ple cal iled
back that the story was all moonshine. If we re-
call the salient features of the “ Eltham mystery,
it will appear that Carroll’s confession is worthy
of respect, and may have 1 >een repudiated f< >r str wily
professional reasons. Exactly 17 years ago .) am:
Maria Clou-sen, a comely servant girl, was.font•••
lying in a lane on the outskirts of Eltham, with In,
head knocked in by a hammer. Of the circum-
stances which led up to the crime nothing was
known. No murder was ever more shrouded in
mystery than this murder of Jane Maria
Clouken. She had been housemaid in the service
of the Poor family, was regarded as a well-
behaved young person, and was not known to
have possessed a “chap” she could call her very,
very own. True, she had been occasionally seen
in tin* company of ct soldier —mark that ! and it
was known that a certain degree of intimacy,
tender or platonic, existed between the unfortunate
girl and young Poor, eldest son of her erriployer.
Suspicion fell upon Poor immediately, and it fell
heavier when medical evidence disclosed that Jane
CItOUSEN was enceinte when the cruel hammer de-
scended. . The not unnatural conclusion arrived at
was that Poor had seduced his father’s servant
and made away with her to escape the conse-
quences of their intrigue, he being engaged to
another girl at the time. When Poor was put
upon his trial for the Eltham murder his guilt was
taken for granted - especially by the police. It
was proved that he had bought a hammer which
bore a family resemblance to the hammer, and he
was unable to satisfactorily account for his move-
ments at the exact time when Mary Jane Clousen
was presumably done to death. In fact
Poor must surely have hanged by his neck till he
was dead, if thy Judge had not dropped on the
police for manufacturing missing links in their
chain of circumstantial evidence, and suppressing
small facts calculated to tell in the prisoner’s favour.
In their laudable anxiety to hang somebody the
police ruined their pious cause. Strange to say,
Poor was defended by a solicitor named Poor
(not related to the family), and this other Poor
made such appeals to the jury’s love of “ British
fair play ” that they found the first Poor “not
guilty.” Solicitor Poor also laid much stress
upon the nomappearance in the witness-box of
that shadowy soldier who had been seen in
Jane Clousen’s company, once and again.
Nevertheless experienced critics of high-class
murder cases agreed that Poor did murder the girl
and nobody could locate her innocent blood upon
the head of the soldier aforesaid. Nobody even
knew the soldier’s name, nor his regiment, nor (if
we remember rightly) could anybody have sworn
to his identity. A few years, or perhaps months,
after this trial it was reported in certain papers
that the not guilty Poor had died, after privately
admitting his guilt to somebody or other. Then
this report was contradicted, and the other Poor
was said to have died. And now, after a long lapse of
time, William Carroll comes forward and
swears that he killed Jane Maria Clousen. He
is anxious to expiate his crime, but the English
authorities will not give the poor fellow a decent
show. Strange that they will take no interest in
a man who is very probably identical with the
mysterious soldier of 1871. There is something
behind here. Either Poor did confess to the
murder and die (w hich the police would have no
object in concealing) or else they will not drag an
old bloodthirsty mistake, from the depths of
oblivion. Meantime, if Carroll is still in a con-
fessing frame of mind, he must confess to himself.
And who, that reads The Bulletin narrative,
will swear that William Carroll is a, liar?
Three youths, implicated in certain filthily-con-
ceived outrages at South Melbourne, have received
more than their just dues from Judge Williams.
The boys -they were little more—followed a sys-
tem of severally enticing “dirty old men," as they
called them, to attempt nameless offences, upon
which others of the gang came up, and under pre-
tence of administering a thrashing, robbed the
nasty victim. In some eases, perhaps, innocent
men were caught in the trap which, for obvious
reasons, they shrank from ex posing, but, generally
speaking, it was a disgraceful business for
everybody concerned. However, from any point
of view, the youthful persons deserved a severe
sentence their crime, as far as it went, being
without one extenuating circumstance. But
such sentences as 10, 18, and 20 years’
hard labour, spiced with lashings and solitary con-
finement so far exceed the merits of the case that
the A bulk gleefully observes-, “the whole com-
munity lias reason to be qrateful to Mr. Justice
Williams.” Merciful heavens ! Why must a
community be grateful to any judge who dooms a
boy to spend the next twenty years of his life in
gaol? In this case, doubtless, the personification
of the law's majesty deemed lie was doing no more
than his duty, and whoever generally holds the
same opinion can approve and commend his
wisdom. But if we are to metaphorically speak-
ing kiss the hand of Williams, let us also
erect a statue to Wixdeykr, and canonise
Oabington, who offered up four human sacri-
fices to avenge the honour and virtue of
a giggling" prostitute. No more is likely to be
heard of the extravagant vengeance wrecked upon
these scarcely full-grown rascals, for their offence
puts them beyond the pale of sympathy. The
community will feel neither grateful to, nor in-
censed against, the justice whose severity calls for
Argus jubilation. Yet it would be well
if their case directed public attention to
a practice almost as despicable as theirs,
which is followed by many members of
the police force. We refer to the “foxing” of
young couples - - not criminals, in any sense of the
word—-in the sequestered shades of public reserves
and similar retreats.- Real crime often plays a
free hand while our guardians of the peace are
sneaking after spooney pairs on the off-chance of
lighting upon an “offence against decency.”
No one knows the extent to which the inno-
cent, as well as the blameable, are blackmailed by
contemptible spies in uniform. Says the Argus,
referring to the South Melbourne creatures, “ It is
not every victim who has the moral courage to
face in public accusations of the sort which they
are in the habit of making, and so the difficulty of
bringing such atrocities to the. punishment which
they richly deserve must always be considerably
enhanced.” Now, for “ they ” read “policemen,”
and the truth of that paragraph is equally indis-
putable. I n nine cases out of ten the policeman’s
victims are more to be pitied than the persons
preyed upon by those Melbourne boys. Let a
warning example be made of some pest in
authority, and the community will, indeed, feel
grateful to the bowigged Nemesis who passes
sentence.
There is an evident, and perhaps proper anxiety
on the part of the authorities to represent Holt,
the imprisoned ’ex-banker, as totally unfit, on
account of the utter breakdown of his health, to
undergo further confinement. If the facts
as to Holt’s health are as alleged, why
does the New South Wales Minister of Justice
not take immediate action in the matter? For
months past reports have been circulated and
newspaper columns filled with health bulletins
from the prisoner Holt's cell. There is no doubt
that Holt has really been punished as much as he
ever can be, by being convicted at all, and further
imprisonment of an already broken man simply
resolves itself into irrational cruelty. But—and
herein lies a tremendous indictment against the
authorities is it not possible that if Holt's name
bad happened to be Newman (or Keegan, who
has gone mad) he would, instead of having his
pause, agitated in the columns of the public prints,
be lying in irons waiting for further developments
to .justify the extremity of his prcsequent punish-
ment ?
■«.
vs Melbourne Herald
' t nless the tie between Great, Britain and the colonies
is made even closer than it is now* the former runs great
risk of sinking into a seoontbrate Power, and the latter of
snaring the fate of the South American Republics, with
every man’s hand against his brother.”
This is all very sad, but it is very difficult to sec
how Australia can help it. To ask Australia to
cripple herself for all time in order that England
may maintain her national prestige, is like asking
the youthful bride to replenish with her young-
blood the veins of the withered and decrepid
bridegroom. We shall be very sorry for England,
but we see no reason why we should sacrifice our
country to England’s needs. If she sank to the
level of a (>oth-rate power, we do not see why we
should be called upon to chain ourselves to her
fate. As for the future of Australia resembling
that of some of the South American Republics,
we have little fear. The only danger of such a,
state of things lies in the existence of “statesmen "
like Robertson, and papers like the Melbourne
Herald, never miss an opportunity
fomenting intercolonial jealousy.
■+
l\ his heart Bishop Barry believes Adam to have
been _an Englishman, and there is no Question
that, in his episcopal mind the Deity is of Saxon
origin. Speaking, the other day, at a meeting of
the New South Wales Aborigines’ Protection
Association, he remarked that the naught, v black-
fellows—
Could not be turned into Englishmen ; consequently
they ought to be guided and controlled in the manner
best suited to their character. . . . They were told
that w herever the white man set his foot the black man
or red man invariably died out, and, to some extent
there was a show of truth in the remark. The manner in
liich the white rnmi chiefly affected the ahoriirines was
in his own wrong-doing.”
What nonsense is all this ! There is no com-
promise in the matter. One cannot lie both pious
and prosperous. Bishop Barry must be aware—
because he is reputed to have a logical brain—that
lie is only part of a system which has usurped this
continent for the purpose of profit. We are con-
querors, and we cannot also be -Christians—at
least, not of the ancient brand.
+,
PHt great and noble rule by which everyone
jumps on a man who is down shall prevail and
never die. David Brown Walker, of Kempsey
(New South Wales), ex-solicitor, is down, and, as
he is not a shareholder in the .Sydney D.T., that
paper jumps on him. In May last lie was struck
off the rolls for melancholy conduct towards a
client, but, in defiance of this, he continued tq
practise, and last week he was sent to gaol. The
Telegraph says :
The ex-solicitor committed perjury in order to escape
punishment, but-this only made his case worse. The per-
jury as well as the contempt of Gourt was established l.v
strong evidences and the scoundrel was verv properlv
sent to gaol. The man shuffled, prevaricated, and lieit
himself into his present place of residence, what, has
happened to him should be a warning to any other un-
worthy members of the profession, and the action of their
Honors should encourage harshly-treated clients to make
their grievances known in the proper quarters.”
\\ lion there is a chance to deduct deep truths on
the subject of a man who is dow n the D.T. j.s
always there. I >.t ll it likes to be sure that the
man is down. Only a few days ago a strange
“ banking" case was heard in'.Sydney and the
plaintiff followed the above advice and took his
grievance to the proper quarter, but the D.T.
didn’t rise in its might to floor the base minions
of the tw o-lmndred-per-shent Sydney “ bank
no, it deliberately suppressed the evidence
wherever it bore heavily on that institution,
and whitewashed the case past human recognition.
The difference in the two cases is that Uncle
Abigail just now is up and infests the Minister’s
room at the New South Wales office of Mines, and
Brown Walker is down and i,n gaol. If
Walker shows signs of getting up again at, anv
earl} (Tate the D. 1. will blow the dust oil him and
apologise miserably, and if Abigail, by aiiy ex-
traordinary contingency, should get oh to a lee
shore the I). 1. will rise to state that it never did
believe in him very much.
Phut astute old "vert, ('animal Manning,
is of opinion that if the Australian colonies do not
come to the rescue of England in providing a
market for her manufactures, English capitalists
and manufacturers must suffer severe losses, which,
being interpreted, means that the English capi-
talists and manufacturers, having ruined every
frish and Indian native industry, and sucked dry
the two countries as producers of raw material for
her, wants Victoria and South Australia to be
idiotic enough to try and take their places, as N.S.
Wales and New Zealand arc ready to do, and as
Queensland is just showing she is not ready to do.
No, no, Cardinal ! we’re after a federation like
Canada, ; d what will give it us is just that pro-
tection you ve come round to for your own
country.
To kngland.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You speak of liberty, but rivet chains ;
\ on prate of peace, but fashion shot and shell;
\on boast free speech throughout your wide
domains.
Vet thrust free speakers in the prison cell.
You talk of grace and holy Gospel calm,
V et teach the savag'e how to drink your rum ;
You bid your neighbour’s slaves to rise and arm.
Hut keep you own secure beneath your thumb.
Gold is your idol, and to it you bend
our proudly-boasted crowned and sceptred
State;
Greed is your god—you know no other end ;
And as you’re riyh, you dream that you are
great.
To hold your gains, ill-gotten though they lie,
You slay—or threaten when you dare not so ;
You hear the sacred truth that man is free,
You hear it —and your answer is a blow.
There are true Englishmen who scorn your ways,
Humanity’s apostles, tried and true, ‘
Foremost in all their fellow man to raise,
Who liars their efforts England, is it you ?
Silence, oh, England ! Do thy people know
(Thy people chained by custom, caste, and
creed)
That thou art but a form, a flimsy show,
And that the people mu at and will he freed.


History of Botany Bay,
We said that when the New South Wales
Corps was drummed out of the colony the
officers were left there in possession of their
ill-gotten wealth. Though their official posi-
tions were taken from them, by this time the
officers had no. need of any accidental aids to
make their power felt. They were now the
property-owners and land-holders of the
colony, the holders of vested interests, as they
did not hesitate unblushingly to assert, and to
all intents and purposes the local aristocracy.
It became their object to preserve these
vested interests, and to draw a wide and
deep line of demarcation not only between
themselves and the emancipated members
of the convict class, but the less wealthy
section of free settlers as well. The yeoman
Suttor was an example of the latter. He
had come to the colony with the inten-
tion of making a home for himself by lus
own honest efforts. He was an honest man.
The typ e was rare the colony before Mac-
quarie’s time, and we have .-flready seen that
the temporary rulers expressed their enthu-
siastic sense of the honesty of this man by
promptly putting him in prison,
* * »
W hen Macquarie began to govern, there-
fore, the persons wins as officers of the mili-
tary force in the settlement had opposed all
the best intentions of Phillip, Hunter, King,
and Bligh, now in their capacity as property-
owners and the representatives of vested in-
terests, opposed every act of the present Go-
vernor that aimed at the welfare of the popu-
lation. This fact in our history is an import-
ant one, and is worthy of special notice, for
this is the first of the connecting links be-
tween the rule of the Corps, and the sur-
vival of Botany Bay traditions in the colony
to-day. Having shown how these vested
interests grew up, and the character of the
people who formed them, it is necessary to
show the steps by which, with a slight change
of front, the malign influences that directed
the first stage of colonisation continued to
exercise their miserable sway and produce
the same fell results.
>*- *
The emancipation of convicts had begun
with Phillip, and was continued by his suc-
cessors. Many of the convicts, as already
shown, were not criminals at all in the real
sense of the word. As they were emanci-
pated, or acquired their freedom by serving
out the terms of their sentences, many of
the convicts who escaped the contamination
of the Ci u-ps and the rapacity of the officers
began to engage in trade—-some being so em-
ployed by the officers themselves. The re-
sult was that many of these made some
money of their own, extended , their
operations, and began to compete with
the officers in the trade of the settle-
ment. But this would never do. This
was revolutionary, and an interference with
the social rights and vested interests of their
quondam gaolers. The crime was made the
more heinous by the fact that the emancipist
traders actually sold goods at a lower price
than the officers. Their virtuous indignation
was aroused. These choice spirits said that
it was not fitting that the ex-convict should
set up a huxter’s shop or a drinking-den be-
side that of his ex-gaoler, and even under-
sell him in the articles of fustian jackets and
rum. So they formed a strong and closely-
knit party among themselves, called them-
selves the old colonial aristocracy of New South
Wales, and forthwith these squalid hypo-
crites proceeded to inveigh against grant-
ing to the emancipist the same civil rights as
they enjoyed. From this point down to the
granting of Responsible Government the
same spirit actuated the same class, with cer-
tain modifications, and formed for many
weary years an impassable obstacle to the
progress of the people and the introduction
of free institutions,
* • *
The vested interest class became known as
the “ Pure Merinos,” as they were under-
stood to bear the same relation to the rest of
t he population as the sheep of that breed did
to those from the Cape. The freed convicts
were known as “ Emancipists. ” But though,
in the then undeveloped condition of free
settlement, the antagonism was at first be-
tween the “ Pure Merinos ” and the “Eman-
cipists,” it soon became a question between
the former class and the whole population of
the colony, whether emancipist or originally
free. Macquarie’s instructions directed him
to carry out that part of the design of the
first experimentalists in transportation,
which aimed at making Botany Bay a place
of reformation, as well as of punishment.
The original plan, so far as there was any
plan at all, proposed to give the convict
facilities for. earning an honest living as soon
as his term of sentence had expired. But,
of course, the dilettante philanthropists who
conceived the scheme never foresaw the
complications the New South Wales Corps
was destined to introduce. To attempt to
unravel these, after they had been formed,
was the task of the new Governor.
* • *
Lachlan Macquarie was an honest British
officer of the old school, to whom it would
have been as impossible to engage in a
squalid traffic in rum while bearing the
King’s commission as it would have been to
mutiny against his superior officer. He saw
the kind of men he had to deal with at a
glance, as Bligh had done, hut he had
more tact and more power than his prede-
cessor. He saw that between the Eman-
cipist class, on the one side, and its black
sheep with the marks of the leg-irons still on
their limbs, and the Pure Merinos, with
their claims to consideration on the score of
wealth and what they called social position,
there was really very little to choose. It did
not take him long to say so, either. ‘ ‘ There
are only two classes of persons in New South
Wales,” he told the Secretary of State,
“those who have been convicted, and those
who ought to have been.” There was a mili-
tary directness about this crisp statement of
fact that offended the Pure Merinos very
much indeed. Their susceptibilities were
frequently wounded in this way. It was in
a similar cordially appreciative spirit that
the naval lieutenant in King’s time pleasantly
pulled Captain Abbott’s nose. It must be
confessed that, in the face of such discourag-
ing little passages as these, the struggle of
the Pure Merinos to raise themselves in the
social scale was a sufficiently pathetic one.
<* • w
One of Macquarie’s first. steps after the
general state of the colony had been dealt
with was one that showed how honest his
intentions really were. For the second time
the poorer settlers were to see their Gover-
nor really taking an active personal interest
in their welfare. In 1809, just before his
arrival, a heavy flood had again devastated
the Hawkesbury district, and the settlers
and small farmers there were reduced to the
direst straits for want of food. Macquarie
and his wife—a womanly, sympathetic lady,
sucli as the colony had kept no record of up
to that time—visited the suffering people,
brought them food and clothes, and made
them feel that their case was not entirely
hopeless and desperate. The accounts of
MACQUARIE’S DEMONIAC ARCHITECT
this visit show that the Governor was as
simple-minded as he was honest. He walked
about with his wife, and paraded the settlers
and their wives and children before him to
inspect, the condition of their clothing. It is
true, this was not a difficult task, for the
poor wretches had not much to inspect. The
descendants of some of these settlers attend
the Governor’s levee now in broadcloth and
fine linen, as is proper ; but many of these
honest fellows made ready for the parade in
a costume of which the most important gar-
ment was represented by a pair of patched
pocket handkerchiefs. Macquarie showed a
fine skill in the detection of rents and
patches, and some of his critical remarks
thereon give evidence of much cultivated
taste and discernment. When this public
view was over—the only art exhibition
the colony had to boast of, by the way
—Macquarie embodied his reflections in
some grandmotherly Orders in which he
gravely remonstrated with the settlers on the
disrepair of their variegated garments. He
preached at them, too, in hia honest and
well-meaning fashion, and concluded thus,
more in sorrow than in anger, as it were :
“His Excellency, therefore, earnestly recom-
mends and trusts that they will pay more at-
tention to these very important objects ; and
by a strict regard to temperance and economy
that they will, on his next annual tour,
enable him to give a more unqualified appro-
bation to their exertions.” Then he gave
them a rest for the next twelve months.
* * #
Macquarie next planned a scheme of in-
land settlement that would remove (he
people out of the reach of the destructive
floods. Up to this time the rulers appear to
have been too busy hanging and flogging
convicts, and squabbling among themselves
about the sale of rum, to trouble much about
schemes of settlement. Had a man of Mac-
quarie’s type been sent out. in the first in-
stance, early Australian history would have
read altogether differently. He established
the townships of Windsor, Castlereagh, Pitt
Town, Richmond, Wilberforce, and Liver-
pool, and, by way of attracting settlers he
offered town-allotments and cultivation-areas
free of charge to those who would take them.
He provided the settlers, as Bligh wished to
do, with sheep and cattle on long credit, and
for 50 miles around Sydney he built bridges
and laid down roads so that the agricultural
population might have no difficulty in getting
their produce to market. Before his term of
office was over he had constructed over 271
miles of road, and it was during his govern-
ment, in 1813, that Blaxland, Lawson, and
Wentworth discovered the pass over the Blue
Mountains. The town of Bathurst was
founded by Macquarie, and a road 130 miles
long constructed thereto under his direction.
He was quite as active in the matter of the
erection of public buildings, as so many of
them unhappily remain to witness. Their
number was only equalled by their ugliness
of design, but for this, of course, Macquarie
can hardly be held responsible. The memo-
rials 6f the Dutch design of Governor
Macquarie’s demoniac architect cast squat
shadows over all the old settled districts of
the colony. Over 200 churches, schools, hos-
pitals, stores, barracks, and other structures
of the kind were built by him in New South
Wales. In Sydney there were 67 ;in Par-
ramatta there were 20 more ; in Van Diemen’s
Land there were 47. The stoiy of the
“ Rum Hospital ” belongs to this chapter of
Macquarie’s activity.
* # #
Some years ago a building stood in Mac-
quarie-, street, Sydney, known as the Sydney
Infirmary. It has since been pulled down,
and its site occupied for some years by a
half-finished edifice of dressed stone, on
which the work was suspended because of
some dispute, which arose when it was half
finished, as to the purpose the building
should be devoted to when completed. The
useless walls still stand, to mark our pur-
poselessness as a people. But it is to the
old Sydney Infirmary that this story refers.
When Macquarie expressed a wish one day
that there might be a large general hospital
in Sydney, three individuals came forward
modestly with a little plan and a meek pro-
posal. These men were D’Arcy Went- 1
worth, Garret Blaxcell, and Alexander
Riley. Their plan was for a building to cost
£50,000, a sum which Macquarie, in his sim-
plicity, thought out of the question. But
here the meek proposal came inopportunely. |
These three philanthropists offered to build
the hospital on condition that they received
the sole right to buy all rum and other
spirits imported into the colony for three
i years. This was granted, and the three
j philanthropists “rigged” the rum market.
| To say that the other rum-purveyors were
[ disgusted with this astute manoeuvre would
j very poorly express the extent to which their
honest bosoms were wrung.
• * *
The “ boodlcrs ” made the most of their
monopoly. Whenever a ship came in one
of the trinity would go on board, and fix his
own price as the captain could not sell to
anyone else. They usually paid 9s. per gal-
lon, and Is. to the orphanage fund ! Then
the pub! i'.,.ns purchased from the store at
from A ’ per gallon to £2 17s. (id. The rum
was retailed at ss. per half-pint. The result
of die transactions is thus figured out by
tr. Lang:—“ln the year 1824, the
j Rum Hospital was calculated to be worth
£20,000. The quantity of Bengal rum the
; contractors received was 60,000 gallons. The
1 « , f.N
monopoly was for three years, it "j
wards extended to three years »n f
and was supposed to be worth -
This was over and above the fi l ' B *'
gallons. •• In short,” says hang- j
monopoly was a sort of regM^_ ( { u 1
royal gift, over and above the ~n uj
pl'iec of the articles bargained for.
all this,, the contractors paid half
wages in provisions or rum, ami l ' l ' l ,3
near the works to receive the casl'P'-
back again. ‘‘These three gentlr| lU
have the monopoly of the spin
wrote Holt at the time, ‘ ‘ say that
the liospital ; but I assert it- IS .,
]>eo])le of the colony who built it. jjj
the appiopriate name of the
pital. ’ Macquarie was not. of
of e numerciil training. But
faculties of men tiained in the q,:,
traffic of Botany Bay would have J
faculties and training of Beelzebub •
CORRESPONDENCE
“ E..T.P.C.” : Thanks ; we have ftfrejjJ *
“Zeph " : Please call “ 3Vlo °'mii« ( j
sa.v : “ Women are sentimental. Poetry e j
inent. It follows, therefore, that women s lO
become poetesses.” it, doesn’t necessarily 1 tr p
doy is sentimental .vet he doesn’t N'.'.J.fr l ■
“ W.L.8.” : How is it possible for a “consis e
paper ’ (1) To refuse admittance to Chinese v
y et call out for the admittance of the fruit s ° f ., l9 pel
<-) To support Protection in land, in the ’ M
monopoly by the few, with a whole code of . , ollt for S
ami defensive to hack them up, and yet ca •
trade in every branch of labour and x
tins silence?”.... “ C.O.M. (Adelaide): Mue»
“ E. 0.5.” (Barringun) : We don’t like y olU . 0(1I .
we won’t tell you why, for fear of hurting '
•■• “ J. Herbert” ' (Newtown) : The S e » bj
allude to has escaped on many ocoaS ,j,jcli
few men care to collar an object " ,g>.
high-water mark under the ears- { lv&" 1
(Paddington): We can’t remember any
kind you mention getting a guinea from us. ol
must have struck the benevolent An<u l •
staff. If you have anything to jj#j
man, say it out. We won’t print a
“E.C.”: The exact words were The
is ready for the sacrifice, and only awaits tn
“E.N.” (Horsham, Vic.): Your siml^j,«;W
thirsty annal has really nothing in it.--’ NinlAj
lie? Mary of Modena, wife of James Jl ”i|, r inf! jj
of £50,000 a year voted by Parliament.
years in exile this money was paid—but 1 ! . ( . IS ,
No; for William of Orange, the pious, ...'rli* I '.
mortal, regularly drew it, and spent it. .“H-' 1 ' .
“ W.H.I). (Maryborough, Q.): Yes, it* s *
Hurley.... “A. C. Sherborne ” : What is «’» jn
this country is not savage atrocity commit te
of justice, but a certainty of punish' l1 ® 1 ! "i' J
surety that when a highly-connected P 1 !)**
fluential friends once lands in gaol be /A ,
out by means of “proper representations.,
son ” : Wo agree with your contention t
against Dr. Violette, medical officer of I h
in connection with the death of the P rl *
should be thoroughly investigated by a
enough to have the assurance of one m ef 1
the other medical man is free of blame. ■ ■ •
Prov ided that neither of you makes any U \
and that you disclose everything to tl,e tf
clergyman, you can get married as often »' Jj
law, of course, the eonunen 0 ® o>%
married life as dating* from the day 011 '' v yjv t >' $1
first: wedded.... “Austral ” : The “ poem ’ .J by
pencil, and the sentiments not being hi* i
rubbed out.. .. “ Siberia” (Winton, Q-)‘
Already noticed....“ Matilda N.”: Tlie 1 J
of British Tories are among the English }v ‘ i,jH j
landowners Constant Reader” : YeS ’ tf
valid until six years have passed. We i# 1 ’ J
you will have to stamp it....“ Walter
Imperial Federation League consists ot » f
who, having got into a big basket, are »*’" js■ y
themselves up by the handle thereof. y {] ,y iV‘|
We confess that we never met with such 110l 10 yy|
before. We have ourselves written for J” i jl I" 1 /
we never wrote anything like it. • Vo,f |] if
body else that we know of. We have
eminent poets and they also say they com J||
it,. Seven of them inquired for your
“J. ’ : Many thanks “ W.O.M‘l'-
was, hut it contains a good suggestion. ■•• j>/’: A
Scott ! What will you want next ?. •• ■ ...
but we had already noted.. Cockney’ • v(>l y bd
“ Victoria” (Melbourne): Communicati 011
the mark.... “ W, E. Harcourt”:
“ A.C.” (Culergamhonc): Will wade tln'o’ 1 ' ,■ l*y
dinous manuscript and let' you kno»’-“yI*’A 1 *’A
Brookes ” (Georgetown, ().): Thanks for
Chinese and leprosy “Diogenes”
considerable contract, but will try and fS et (jAp 1 ?
it.“ Socialist Workman ”
programme is extensive enough in all o° n
wc doubt very much whether it would be *
beyond it.... “ Ranob ” (Maryborough,
voluminous. When we have threshed if- °’ I( j, *
an answer to the ultimate residuals* •*'
(Hobart): \\ ill read “ Hue ”: I §^
usually reads your verses is de»d ’’j ji |f *
(Vairfield, via Drake): Of purely
“Bushman” (Byrock): You’re a g°° tl
but you’re no poet “ Sazerac ” (^* lC ' 1 , ) (l ‘' Vi
‘Cornstalk,” “New Chum” (Balling’
(Parramatta): Received “ P.W.P-" (
Thanks for.yarn.... “H.H.'' (Sydney) 1 I t e °° 1
the only one worth printing, and vV ®
whether it ttt worth printing, after all- J
— 11 ’
The Alters denounces
festo. The inference is obvious- . j
I. The Bank of N.S. Wales pj
its business to the rising P°
Waverley, and has apixrinted as I
local branch the popular Mr. “* 1 ' ,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
s®w»| Rovu <7T —
n® ViiKrt'g k, Mikado ” d. 15.
‘“AS;v™'««Sy Comp “ r
Federal Minstrels
“Relate, °nvAfrican seems to begetting
e J the fa»p U . y years ago or thereabouts he
would rise in wild
W? son of Ham took
2% Wlino. >o S f sat on a squashy place
ltoiM° ns of hjs f b ast ’ looking sadly at the vast
the J ° me beside n a od thinking about his child-
aiCgf the Niger, and his father, and
on, e f r , that used to bask in the mud
ftfer. Ard ?u ed the children in front
"'itiw bvo > theonn! 1611 ’ he had mused for a
’logs fiJ? res ? or would start on his track
iei 1 . I*l® 1 * 1 ® nobiej',.., 1 , a h°ut e ight feet high, and
f tet li S^ave heard them coming
for s' her that slil ° r tbe conflict, and scream to
likely to see him again
and 3 a coimlp having done this, he would
scenp l °' v thiuo's,,+ q? 6B an d rush on his enemies,
' t; 3 m ’ aiK h when at last the
a 4an ew °Uld dk '4“ nien and dead dogs and
Vifc* tree in h . ,s head dragged off and
oftwtihis blaek.i and, and a contemptuous
features, while the band
their k, that all tl F ed . °n their hands, owing
.struck yheir legs were broken and
■of s4 fl 'i c an Wif But of late
<%, Slave ’’ a rest A aild the Pr°duc-
fiiadp,, 8 a total],, at Sydney Gaiety, last Satur-
,M>lfc fZi Une ;Xpected resurrection, and
roi ' as . h they had trodden on an
fon,!" um to superhuman activity,
ff 3 In the first, his girl’s
or|? d the other* Yi In the second, he is
.■%, i lei F fi e ow , ls looked up. In the
feS the fl the ot her fellow is released
I e bov\ f? eeB fr om her brutal master,
irow n over a precipice; and
Bten!, bra nded 3 that the brutal master
I Vic ti . Ce of tlu, n u th e stomach. The dismal
Klt| ly a *i int ei . e „i,-°ther fellow is the chief draw-
W>nt»l narrative. He is an un-
,f joy, rl Jft thos .. i’ e m uniform, a hair in the
1' sko 6 leadin, a ? °d dish-cloth in the soup
tatJf character—that of Gambia,
re s ti cl, ti^gediaif ’> 3 Mr. Antoine Bollars, a
fc c >l«il Uv ‘ a last- st. 3 10 made his first appear-
J' Vi a ,J l i I 'tM-o u iVi atl , ll ', c l a y- The news that the
. os t of I, Wught ■, i takeu l j y a completely fresh
kiHeat 111 seem;,, , ? e crowd to the pit, and
A* *-> and hri ] l )r °ught carrots, and de-
V V ar hed thl u aloil h r with them, but Mr.
a „.'i°n« e along with him from
J, flo 8f , 1 Y° beii storm of applause, and
ead, caUed before the curtain at
K»f2> last sf’ he wa « howled for in the
i\ p 1 'v ty 6i , eil e, and the reinai*ks of the
for VV 1 ™ 1 the public voeifera-
i.ti'V,,, .lices ’ght tendency to over-act
tike,,t‘‘tired ’ ...ti, tragedian was all that
iNS'ras’’ a d Mr- Dampier’s hazardous
<S a &*lafa- nmit igated success. Had the
|N 2 bin for £ re > there would probably have
thak ea ca ges ; the crowd in the pit
SA R wa y- The other fellow, as
» No,, at gentlf. T l? tbma, n> was an ignoble
“CiV and f„,i an Wore. a hypochondriac
At'.Vir as pect 1 a ?out the stage with
Hill- a as if he was sorry for
V-Wav , d drew >y , tbe ellf l of the first
liy nineh i be t d mto oblivion. Mr
§IH* 4 * '.’hat h (m but tittered all the
' a Hoci>f olu i s were left were absorbed
}V,, - of H u °ble ],. ay Zelinda, the quadroon
IWr Hi ’ other *f V n w wasted on the great
tan 8 Hoticp s commonplace soul,
try av .’ a Pathetic appeal to Mr.
V d V f V- teB hi th„ d 'old up that other fellow,
i Hftir ik « C u, n ? a tion which he assumed
1,3 bit necessary to do some-
WiiiVAe tlu. 'V * straighten up and look
af d of consternation, ‘ ‘ The
}j c ° u £ and prosperous run.
JbiS'K, * * *
W- tt>oe n a? y a Blun S bis magic sj>ell
.' Sydney Opera House on
ViiJN tiFtiUcinai n ti the medical profession
tI SSj, ttiedi ca ? art of the audience. The
t30!,1W l y3 e d .Profession both declared
tli 1 pteH C \ the - ffofessor explained
ii' ; V!Vt}| ln a New -tr o B’ive poison to a mes-
k °, r b' hospital with a view
%i>' a ch l-b? ybich he could fool with
»(! After think-
if would-be glad to know
ijV3 ; B l . Ila n aud'ii Professor were to mes-
tfr ’'ass a steam roller
*V 'Vh a sv, 'jture of the case which
Vfe 3®>ds a® 11 ,ieal neglected. Further-
/ 0 sew up his patients witli-
■L.' a( . know whether he could
ti ‘tv * ‘ hem with similar, results ?
* * *
'Si'ti'V’' 1 iNWS® *wo lags who helped
VNbVrl Hvrl„ endurable have been
Ha Royal by “ The
4,4tHu3°n t (l i, rda / l< Pinafore” is an*
her a; of that Japanese story.
\Vn l)l f B vV tiight at the Criterion,
W i3‘t b a V ° u r ofb <t. she will be temporarily
?;V'"it'V,„ i» Xm*- Tl >«
-.t necessary to adopt this
to run tbetwopro-
1,, Join r K„ ' yet keep Moses suffi-
X S .SRihg t ” rT'«- Moses was the
Itii l( 4f t H ( ,,3be an,] 3 lfc when it went out.
l 'li Parker, will be
ti2&tiSdhS,h 01a Saturday.’ It is
y v 4 frem? ■ la X e lately been heard
V'ber which we presume that
A VfUif til,’.,, rrank, nk Smith’s burlesque
K’*HM " ) (1 ?°? al Standard on the
Vti V « junior,” and a
l! til?' %% £ Slatln K o f 50,000 feet of
riVA'i' 4' V a k>nj. J!. to destruction, is an-
KWSS 4 >t includes the
,1,4,1 V, 8 ' I ’)*;,., b ar c , J at 'h of. General Gordon
V?'V\ s > -Pwt as a railway ac-
V!HS? wi *h Daniel in the
h "fur,, a * u bra and the Academy
h o v L+ i ou^h an epidemic of
lij\, 3t. Ver taken the jokes at the
% *
AI, -«tar Oombina-
W If s PVndid business at
? e much to alle\ late
i : ‘A kHkS-w'y of f fi °f circumstances and
Sw * UI S4 C kl S - .° uda ’s intrepid
V I V-,iK?of%o, \r..the piety-stricken m-
the cr 2 e ' Varetta, and the
- ’ along in
3w c hiU er ''-ky is advertised for
, , i V'norina Robottaro,
WSSM 1 T 1)6 Albs
announce a few concerts in the Town Hall. Mr.
W. A. Jinkins represents this high-class company.
** # #
A weird incident came to pass one night
last week in a Sydney theatre. There is an elderly
actor in the company, who always endeavours to
secure the part which involves emV-nciug th*
heroine—an elderly, wide-mouthed actor, with a
capacious face, and a deathless thirst for whisky,
which he pours into his countenance by jugfulls.
This isn’t nice for the heroine, but she stood it for
some time, and then her womanly fortitude gave
way, and she resolved to got up an aroma of her
own. She ate a trayful of onions, and then went
to her doom. When the actor bore down upon
her, she stood still and breathed stertorously, and
he was ignominiously driven to leeward. He won
his darling as usual, but he wore a surprised and
pained expression even in the moment of his
triumph, and when, in the last act, she tlxrew her-
self upon his bosom, and said there was now no
obstacle to their happiness, he tacked away un-
easily, and, walking round her at a distance of
three yards, said vaguely that he supposed so.
♦* * «
The Federici benefit at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s was flat, stale, and carelessly managed. The
programme included four worn-out acts from plays
that everybody had recently seen, or would have
seen if they had wanted to ; also a tedious capric-
cio in B minor, rendered with terrible fidelity.
Nobody came forward with recitations (generally
the most attractive feature of morning perform-
ances), and the Triumvirate were represented by
Mr. Vincent, who announced that Mrs. Federici’s
cheque would amount to £315, including* outside
subscriptions. It might easily have been increased
by some £5O or so.
** # *
Miss Nina Boucicault has departed for
America. The event was dimly predicted by The
Bulletin weeks ago, for we were anxious to let
the dudes down very gently. Cultured, clever,
and pretty actresses, on the sunny side of 21, are
not a drug in this market, and it is a matter for
regret that Miss Nina has seceded from the
Brough and Boueicault family party. Since papa
Boucicault departed hi« fair daughter had been
lightening, the bachelor darkness of young Mr.
Dion, but now that Roman brother has to pour
out his own tea.
*# * #
Essie Jenyns has got the womenkind of
Melbourne by the wool, and the Bijou circle has
become the favourite haunt of low-bodied beauty.
The more plebeian portions of the house are also
well attended ; in fact, the steady increase of busi-
ness has incited Mr. Billiam Holloway to set up
“ Twelfth Night ” on a scale of mild magnificence.
In the matter of scenery, dresses, and stage
management, this is a pretty show, and if it con-
tained less company and more Essie, it would be
prettier still. Leaving that deep-voiced dream of
loveliness out of the question, there isn’t three
penn’orth of humour in the whole crowd,
but of course they can’t help that. Some
men are born funny, while others have funni-
ness thrust upon them. The Holloway com
pany have had it thrust upon them, and the
burden sits heavily on their. chests. Moreover,
although a few actors can interpret most of Shake-
speare’s humour, we must remember that the
manuscript is three centuries old, and some of the
jokes are quite undecipherable at the present time.
That’s blasphemy, very likely. Every word
written by trie Immortal Bard is to be treated
with Bible reverence. There are no spots on that
sun. Go to ! O smug-faced priesthood who offer
up long “papers ” for William at monthly meet-
ings of your little Society. Much of Charles
Dickens’ humour seems poor stuff before he has
been dead 20 years. Fielding and Smollett shook
the sides of England with lines that now set j
us yawning. And some of Shakespeare’s.)
jests have lost their pungent flavour—-there
now ! Miss Essie .Jenyns plays Viola in
her usual picturesque, confident style, but her
tones are too sepulchral for a page. No boy ever-
talked like Miss j. with her bass pedal down. |
One’s very blood runs cold at the thought of this
graceful lady repeating her prayers after the gas
is out. Miss Constance Deorwyn is far less stagey
than usual as the Countess Olivia, and some of
the others are not so dull as the remainder. Any-
way, they are all well-dressed and letter-perfect.
“Twelfth Night ” is sufficient of a novelty in
Melbourne to attract others beside hysterical
worshippers of the “gifted young Australian
actress. ”
## # *
“Nobly Won,” put up at Melbourne
Opera Houseon Saturday night, proved to be a four-
scened drama of murder and police, insane in con-
ception and inane in all other respects. A villain
with a sing-song delivery, who only took his hands
out of his pockets when he wanted to forge bills or
kill silly old men, was boss of the show until about
20 minutes past 11, at which late hour the re-
morseless law carted him off to captivity. Mean-
ti-n >, a more presentable young man had been
solemnly tried, for murder by a queer old
sticky in a scarlet tablecloth, who said it
wasn't necessary to sum up the evidence and
left 10 hungry supers to find prisoner “Guilty,”
after they had earnestly deliberated together for
three seconds and a-half. A gleam of merriment
was introduced into “Nobly Won” when the
fossil in scarlet hung a black cap over his ear, and
asked the Lord to have mercy on the prisoner’s
soul, but otherwise the plot seems very harrowing.
Messrs. Seagrave and Sydney were the best of a
company strong enough for the work in hand, and
no bricks were hurled at anybody. The gallery
went so far as to applaud this play.
# #
“Road to Ruin” draws fair crowds to
Melbourne Royal but retires on Saturday in
favour of Bland Holt and “New Babylon.” Then
Charles Warner moves his little camp to the Prin-
cess’s and renews operations in “School for
Scandal” and “London Assurance.” But Mr.
Warner will hardly paralyse them in any other
part than that of Coupeau. His eternal gush
becomes rather monotonous.
* * ■* *
The Prince of Wales attended the first
performance of “Ariane,” at the London Opera
Comique, and talked so constantly and loudly
while the curtain was up that the attendants were
exhorted to “go and make that man in the box
hold his tongue. ” However, the attendants didn’t
go. It is hard to reconcile “ Tummy’s ” attention
with the fact that “ Ariana ” is a highly immoral
play, founded on Mrs. Campbell-Praed’s “ The
Bond of Wedlock.” The critics held it up to
opprobrium, and, as a natural result, sassiety is
booking seats six weeks in advance. On second
thoughts, we guess
“Tummy” didn’t under-
stand what a treat he
was missing, or he would
have craned his apology
for a neck over the front
of the box, and rolled his
royal eyes in silent ecs-
tasy.
*# # #
Mons. Victor', ze
great gladiateur, was
elected chairman of the
committee of two at
Kennedy’s opening show
in Melbourne. Since that
memorable occasion the
amiable Frenchman has
exercised a strange mes-
meric influence over all
who crossed his path. If
he fixed his eagle eye on
a man, that man began to
stiffen, like Lazarus in
the tomb, and resolutely
refused to become flabby
until Victor had snapped
his fingers and said,
“ Now you’re all right,
sir.” The extent of his
hypnotic powers alarmed
Victor just at first, but
by degrees he got used
to sending his circle of
acquaintances into trance,B and took a real pleasure
in restoring the unfortunate creatures to conscious-
ness. ' Then he lured them on to onions, and stuck
pins into their soft places, and induced them to drink
whisky under the belief that it was colonial beer.
In a word, Victor’s young friends worked nearly
all the miracles that Kennedy’s disciples can ac-
complish, and finally the fatuous Frenchman was
induced to give a private seance at St. George’s
Hall. It came off last Thursday afternoon, in the
presence of a large crowd. Victor artlessly made
an object of himself for a full hour, while a batch
of “subjects” fooled him something awful.
Directly his subjugating optic was turned another
way the farce became positively pathetic, and
when at last the subjects declined to be made “all
right,” it was painful to watch the Frenchman
slowly grasping the situation. It is as well for
Mr. Kennedy that he had scooped in his Mel-
bourne money before this hoax was played on
Victor. Admirers of the Professor were surprised
to find that five-sixths of his show can be set-up
without any stronger “influence” than barefaced
humbug.
** * *
The New York authorities have ordered
the immense Wooden fence round the Jersey Lily’s
mansion to bo pulled down as being a public eye-
sore, and the Lily has had to remove her bath into
a back room in consequence. Buffalo Bill con-
templates returning to the boundless expanse of
his native prairies. That poor amputated worm
Brown Potter is applying for a separation. _ Fie
doesn’t approve of his wife's acting.
Mrs. Langtry recently shrivelled _up a
male member of her company with the
words: “I am accustomed to having gentle-
men support me, not rowdies. It might
do if you were supporting a variety _ star.
Remember, you’re not with Maggie Mitchell
or a dried-up old woman like Modjeska.
Wanted -Modjeska to read this item accompanied
with prayer, and then give her unbiassed opinion
of the Langtry. Plain Bill Holloway says he
thinks I rving the greatest actor in the world.
Now, what does Irving think of Plain Bill Hollo-
way, supposing, for the sake of argument, that he
thinks of him at all ? The new theatre at Bris-
bane is to open on Easter Monday, M ‘Mahon’s
company commencing with “Held by the
Enemy.” Among the enemy are Nelson Decker,
Geo. Ireland, G. R. Melville, Greville, Kate
Douglas, and several more. Cowan’s dramatic
company are playing in the dim fast-
nesses of . the Tweed River (SN.S.W. 1 The
simple-minded natives think it is all real, and a
frantic and consternated boundary-rider tried to
climb on the stage one night when the temporary
assassin was fixing a rope round a pretty girls
throat, and put his foot in the jaws of the cornet
while struggling over the orchestra. One of
Professor Kennedy’s mesmerised crowd was found
sitting on the pavement in a Melbourne street
during the season there in a state of elephantine
drunk. He was locked up, and that night the
crowd of subjects was one short. Apparently
there wasn't another patient to be had at such
short notice. The Melbourne Argus is evidently
losing its head. It states that “ Mr. Holloway plays
Ingomsr; his harsh and bow-wow delivery, his
inexpressive and inflexible countenance, his un-
gainliness of movement, and his utter want of
refinement are advantages rather than otherwise
to an actor who is called on to pourtray a barbarian
of the fourth or fifth century.” has the
oldrgtentltnrianly twdpenn’rth gone to ?
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
Democracy as the Australian National Creed,
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A united Australia and Protection against the
World.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during tlio
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus
tralian journal wh'.cli denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now atlliets British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise \salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the busliman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney Is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of Ta E
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
Tiie Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and 'the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster Ilian any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest,
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most,
artistic, and its policy the boldest, and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public,
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
’'Villiah Macleod, Managing Director, to
whom all remittances are payable. Editorial
communications to be addressed to J, F,
Archibald.


Pepper
Sait
Park.es, with his accustomed 'ingratitude,
has started to abolish prize-fighting in X. S.
Wales, and we appeal to Larry Foley and Jack
Thompson, and ask if they are listening. Also,
we entreat Black Jackson to lend his capacious
ear. and we ask Fogarty to hearken to our words
.»f wisdom. Twelve months ago Queen Victoria had
a jubilee at a time when’ she was old enough to
know better, and at a great meeting, got up to
manifest the spontaneous exultation of the people
of Sydney, Parkes’ own miserable skin was
guarded by the brawny boxers of the ring. The
old man was present to cram down the throats of
the people a loyal resolution which they had re-
jected on two previous occasions—at open public
meetings—by a large majority, and to do this he
mustered the police, the Naval-Defence men, the
Orange lodges, the football-kickers, and Larry
Foley’s little army of stalwart liard-hitters, the
chief duty of the latter being to prevent his un-
paid-for hat being jammed down over his eyes by
a derisive audience. Under this protection
Parkes looked as if he was ready to tear the vital
organism out of the first protesting human crea-
ture who arrived, and was the living embodi-
ment of that noble public sentiment which
wants somebody to come along and tread on the
tail of its coat, and it will set its big brother on to
him, and see him licked till he howls for a week.
Lady Carington, too, who came in to protect
Parkes, was escorted by a party of bruisers, and
the old man got behind her and them with a look
of deep thankfulness on the trackless wilds of his
brazen countenance. But these times are past,
and Sir Henry toots the horn of loyalty at jubilee
meetings no more. Ihe jubilee banners uie
mouldering in the pawnshops ; the public-house
cat’s kittens have been born on the jubilee pro-
clamation ; the jubilee speeches have been
dropped down the drains, and now I’arkes
rounds on the heavy-fisted band who
exerted themselves to prevent him
being squashed on that day of jubilee.
Therefore, we ask Fogarty and Larry
Foley to perceive the emptiness and
ingratitude of loyalty and loyalists ;
we appeal to -lack Thompson as a
Hebrew six feet high not to make an
ass of himself again, and we address
ourselves to Jackson as a man and a
brother, and ask the whole lot what
they have gained by adhering to a
cause which has so ungratefully
rounded on them. I hey rolled up
manfully to shed their nose-blood for
Parkes, and Parkes moves in a my-
sterious way to get the whole boiling
of them abolished. Therefore, let
them whoop for the coming Aus-
tralian Republic, and punch for a
thankless monarchy no more. 11
they must wallop their fellow-men let
them do it in the great cause of
liberty instead of propping up a long-
haired imbecile who seeks to hit them
with an Act of Parliament below the
belt, and then when their time Comes
and they go up to ]>oimd with their
boxing gloves at the pearly gates
they will depart with a proud con-
sciousness of having done their best
for their country, and will stand a
fairer show of not being iguominiously
grassed in the Better Land.
* * *
Land-sale auctioneers are small
respecters of persons whether
alive or dead. One of them has
in a daily contemporary of a day or two ago :
“ If the Emperor of Germany had any idea of
the - Estate we should soon have him in our
midst." Very probably. He might like to have
the right of choosing' his own graveyard.
* * w
“ The Devil : who and what is Me ! ” is the
taking title of a little volume lately published in
Melbourne. It is written by a minister, of some
sort. Without attempting to trace the pedigree
of the party referred to we may say, out of a mere
regard for seeing justice done to the weaker side
that he is the clergyman’s best friend.
* * #
1 ■ The last of the Buangor tribe of abori-
ginals, known as Tommy Ware, who has been in
a dying state for some time, died to-day in the
train while being conveyed to the Ballarat Hos-
pital.” Telegram to Melbourne Alters.
The slow, sad, melancholy cry of the
Parkes collection lady is still occasionally heard
in the back page of the S.M. Hkkald, as she
takes in a reef and tacks dismally down the pence-
eolunm of the catalogue. One of the late reports
runs: -
Collected by Miss
A Friend .. .. I) 0
Misses Porter .. ..040
Miss Fletcher ,020
Mrs. Powell ,.03 0
I 0 0
That's all, and there is no moral influence extant
which will prevent us stating that it is a mean
little total, and calculated to incense, rather than
to cheer the Hairy Bismarck of the broad less,
home. If things don’t improve at the last moment
the committee will have to abandon all hope of
raising the tribute to the long-promised £10,000.
Perhaps they may wait for the interest to grow,
It grows fast in Sydney. Anyone who passes
the leaving-shop of Uncle Abigail, M.R.,
N.S.W. Minister of Mines, in the silent hours
of the night can hear a strange whirring
sound like human skulls and rib-bones
and spines and other things whirling round
it is the sheventy per shent mounting up.
Sometimes a howl, like a hyaena’s, rings out in the
stilly air, and when the passing policeman hears it
he knows that a bill-of-sale for £6O has success-
fully climbed up the sliding scale of commission
until it amounts to £lOO, and has stopped for a
I moment to whoop. Or, again, there may be a
: hideous racket of galloping feet, and then Uncle
Abigail, as he passes on his way home from the
Orange lodge, understands that a bill at three
: months is racing against time in its frenzied
! desire to become due. If the Parkes Fund were
| only put through this process it would speedily
! gratify the fondest hopes of the committee, and
we move that it be invested at once in good
shecurities.
* * *
Somebody lifted an A flat brass cornet
| from the band stand at the Friendly Societies’
| Gardens, Melbourne. There is reason to believe
! that the thief is intensifying his crime by en-
| deavouring to blow a hymn-tune out of his ill
gotten gams, Nobody would sneak a trumpet
unless he, she, or it were burning to practise
“Praise God, from whom all blessings flow ”, in a
bedroom.
• * •
Still we must look to the suburban eoun-
| oils for examples of those little urbanities that
] make life pleasant. At a meeting of one of the
must, high-toned of them the other day, a member
said that another member was an “unmitigated
liar. This was candid and flattering, but too
much. He should have said of his brother coun-
cillor that he was “ a liar mitigated by the fact of
being a councillor." This would have made all
the difference.
* * *
()ne more poor autochthon*)
Dead. Who’ll care?
He shall have an elegy,
Tommy Ware.
Nothing but a black, you say ?
True- but there
It was all he could be, eh?
Tommy Ware.
There are white men we have known
We could spare
Quite as well, you must own,
Tommy Ware.
Bast of all his kith and kin !
Sole, sad heir
Now his checks he has passed in.
Tommy Ware.
Scion of a death-doomed race
With one share
In the earth—a resting-place,
Tommy Ware.
Where have all Ids people fled ?
Where, oh, where?
H e is better with the dead,
Tommy Ware.
Better with the buried braves
Will lie fare
In their cold forgotten graves,
Tommy Ware.
P'raps he was benighted -would
Drink and swear.
This world was for him too good,
Tommy Ware.
Much too good indeed for blacks,
Much too fair.
None too soon did he make tracks,
Tommy Ware.
And perhaps there may lie room
Room and air
Found for him beyond the tomb,
Tommy Ware.
Rum instead of room- or schnapps
He’d prefer,
Being civilised, perhaps,
Tommy Ware,
He’ll have hunting-grounds, no doubt,
Somewhere there;
If so, we must run him out,
Tommy Ware.
M ake him drunk—the same old lay 1
And - oli, rare!
Make him sign the lot away,
Tommy Ware.
A DEFINITION.
PEDAGOGUE (severely): “NOW DON’T YOU FORGET THAT A NOUN IS THE
NAME OF AMY PERSON, PLACE. OR THING.”
OBTUSE TEN-YEAR-OLD: “YES, SIR."
PEDAGOGUE (searehingly): “I BELIEVE YOU’VE FORGOTTEN IT ALREADY.
WHAT AM ?"
OBTT’SE TEN YEAB-OLD) (apologetically) : “PLEASE, SIR, YOU'RE A THING!”
One world s not enough for us,
Nor a pair'.
Git ! from the whole omnibus,
Tommy Ware.
What shall we write o'er him? Gome,
Play him fair.
K.l.P. ? No! K.ir.M.
TOMMY WARE.
HERE AND THERE.
•Now gleaming bright by Eastern streams
The lotus opes its hud,
While 1 >y the light of Austral beams
We grow the festive spud ;
The plants that ornament our creeks
Are dockweeds in the mud.
Of European Courts we hear
Where monarchs hold their state.
Our courts are ante-rooms of gaols
For the inebriate
Where ’Any gets a sixer
For a-smashing Ginger Kate.
The armies of the continent
Are reahtroops, we vow,-
The only harmy that we’ve got
Distracts us with its row.
We can’t go on with this because
They’re at our window now.
AD MUSOPHILEM.
Sing on, Musophiles, bard of the band
Who fatten on the toil of this fair land
A hidden syndicate, whose secret nod S|
Sways Trade, a hwttgry-visagecheonipo un ™
Sucli as the Hindoo carvings represent,
A monstrons form whose head is Park* 111
Whose limbs, Monopolists, whose strw|
hold .
O'er New South Wales a dreadful svv'or 1
A self-dubbed Brahma, waving Siva’sJ j
The giant Avarice, the brand Freetrade,
A Gorgon, long to corpulency growrl, J
Whose eye turned timid Enterprise to s J
A halt! conglomerate of Business Men 1
Whose touch transforms each guinea iid°
A mighty Union of the Lords of Greed, j
Their means Monopoly and Gain then cl j
A band which dreads the thought tha j
selves, Jj
May furnish all that loads our warehoui> 1
Which, leagued with Old-World Ma® u
(Great Firms whose wares, throupj
“ universe,”* Jijß
Are known, imperious Caesars of the 1
Dictators dread ; cold Croesuses, to "d>° A
Their grimy serfs, who bend at hoj>ei j
Yield up their share of corn, and wine, ■
Monarchs of coal-mines, lords of min® a |
Huge factories, and many country-sea •->
Wrung from the servitude of hopele® B A
Who, looking from their cradles, see |
As far-off lights—the interspace of
Between one gloom of work, and want,
Wrung from the weary hand and ach 111 ? j } <
Of pallid women—wrung from want
From sobs of children, drowned amid J
Of roaring factories, where shame an®!! ’ J
And lustless vice, and every cobweb f _ j}ei
That woe spreads out to snare the pfw y, ( |
Are manufactured with rare fabric?*
Disguised as silks, adorn the langhM , s( jJ
Won from the beast-like sire—the,
From aught that will repay the Wiring
From tottering Age aUd Vicious " |
Youth,
From loss of Virtue, manliness, and
A golden snowball, a vast globe of
That rolls out human happiness and i( -^
That crushes ’neath its ever-weightu 1
The workman’s body and the worki» al
Great millionaires, who, counting eveG ,
Increasing thousands, yet refuse to yw ,
One needless farthing to the Helots " 1
Scarce know the taste of rest then j
through ; i
But, if their consciences at last ftW&kb J
And bid them do some good for V /
While Bishops bless their WOtk, and
Spend thousands in—a new Cathedra jJ
Bids this New World dig out its shi» in j
To fill the mighty coffers of the Old ,
Potent Importers—men who, having ■
Out here a very happy hunting-g r ° nn
Crush out our hope of our own
Our shirts to emanate from foreign Lj| j
Bind us, as to his wlreel was bound
To act as jackals for the British Id°®V e 3) «
Arid, in exchange for our departed n c ]jm
Feed sea-born moths on West
breeches. ■
A sovereign Ring of sceptred Autoc 1 ”
Of Sheffield hardware and Parisian
High Mammonites, who, showing &° y g, ;
To those who weld around us heavy '
Contrive to keep the doleful weight o |
For ever fixed upon the weakest ba
That stifled Manchester may find & ;
Out here for shoddy stuffs at emit- F
That here the watchful Hollander il,a , |
All the superfluous wares of Amstd
And mighty freights of doubly nfitO'
Be there the tip for the Antipodes,
That their persistent fleets of gn» fcdi
May suck away the blood of New
And haunt our ports with th’ old ‘‘ |
In all the tongues that Babel gave t 1
Fail not, Musophiles, to sweetly W
The Kingdom, Power, and Glory o * r) ,jfctu I
Look well into thy pocket, and then
Whate’er is mightiest lend thy m l **' 0
Grasp with decision thy poetic T” 1 ’ jJO' j
And glorify the truths of John St« aI gli 1 * :
In Freetrade precepts let thy tong l1 ® |
Let Freetrade apophthegms engage J
Lead thou the cry of mercenary i’ o #” j
That helps those who have help e< *
bags 5 f „l, d
Bi-weekly “organs,” weakly thui> de o* J
That mourn or madden o’er the wr °! o ,,)j<Fl
Whose mortgaged hand-powersg° iU |
To grind out arguments that black tf'bJ
Time-payment plants that blazon :1 , » K
Of some keen merchant, strong to ■
The merits of Freetrade, the bless^gjcl*.
It yields us through the eiiterprisi
Bing on, Musophiles, thy “ servile®, pld j
Bind our strong limbs with rlls .
chains ; : Jj
Sing until every bar of roadside P° (md
Roars with the proverbs of the 0° * " j
Then all the Firms, and Syndicate®’
That fatten on the present state °* M
Enormous Companies and potent ‘ \
Will thank thee—and, perhaps /A
thanks. j
Universe —Alfred Bennett’s naW e * ot
News office.-y Ed. B. J
( To be contin tied sO» lC
————^ —T stI V,V
Parkes says lie started, life
30s. a week, .Those were the jet L/|
fool enough to shave and crop Jpg ,Wf
what his mouth and the back o ht t * I
like—the days when he had to “S ■&
life without a tall hat and a frock' 0
of promissory-notes.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Chamberlain i
®J* a Pee ra g e las reused a baronetcy. He
est ate has brought in
m here you luust g °
h Dlq n I V. Magistrate.
V lrlof Mouv (l^ ;u J lie tlie olll y child of
%• tl lat j, 0 ’ dna w ho was her mother ?
** **little donUiu Lillies is to be married,
“Pki n Bill lat he wiU be knighted.
' Sot Ml)ei\ v 18 StiU “Plain Bill,” as lie
Tftfijjgg Bi ° rn 111 aH a ffl'iyy councillor.
'Xjf p’ oarsman, is a nephew of
for Molong in the N.S.W.
LiOfj tr-
jr ® Ver he g O iV investing in land
The old, old game ! Health
kill (!■>,
y sec t to be known among
an 1886 as “Lord Oily Brogue.”
-kediK llu °w.
l tl°n 0 f r,
A’ "hicliv, • ancis Adams’ “Poetical
fe l^ u^»Kt r . agobyGriffi ‘ 1 '
X ate now X l6l ' 8 of Mount Morgan
; ip?ftrty w The present owners
ht S hill 000 ’ I °°o sterling.
»d e ,, .i'dsey q Ba f Gordon's ” real name was
Tl, ’birtVi >n '- Pk so entered, says Mr.
(j,! hfce m Register at Cheltenham.
Robert Wisdom, Q.C., of
hlKjk 1,1 hfe’s battle as a journalist.
H and edited the Maitland
KlXb m ices the death at Tor-
of h, edu esday, of Mr. Lachlan
Proprietors of the Argus
(l m harles Edward Stuart, the
W- He wl s HP a little unexpectedly
handf” t 0 the local I>apers as
tils tfof fi h-
form, 10 P r °ken Hill Argus be-
\jjlwjf f?toy n I'; 'r X s washerwoman. She
A v r ks, an ( i i °h by speculation in silver-
AoJJ^ lefthim «hirtless.
Vof if- Of on P; l per 1 )a s awarded its
J 7, 6 foll o J! Unea f°i‘ the best joke to the
gd ~“ Lord Carington was
' M-aA-
,h e q met alleges that the
biting-cards inscribed
kiiw,, f°r (i “ m ct, for democrats, De
K l W afiu? f locra tic snobs, and “M. de
tl lu tocr ats.
K? v »-m!? est of the Broken Hill
lii V %'iUerlv 11 ’’ Co.’s shareholders is Mr.
is’ P l6rn ber for the district in
B Uad at i Ua t ed - Mr. Macgregor’s
WWW that tl a>oUt a million sterling.
!ca fiisin W a l<3 P. rese nt Crown Prince of
on B 'V* contemptuously
■ tej r ae American Ambassador
.Moqk of A ' is the custom in the diplo-
•iq . ’ ll) ifo rni ' e public, wore a black coat
JllNsW at a reception.
h!? W ’mHoX ,^ lat dam Lindsay Gor-
tk hkJ 6 then V , e . beat the favourite,” was
the Australasian,
Utuk';* that ti, e , hterary standard of that
l NotJu?. h b° r «e-reporter-man of the
ais own department on his
i ter >' st(j nd ’ w ’th no fear of the
I >l '% miir Grchhishop Carr’s mitre,
Vkl tl to hmv lner y .i us tas the prelate was
1 A hat 1 ? km,' f an op-country nun. The
Wo' s beli ° a , costumier for a few
(Jvah „ Ve d that he kept the mitre
~ un witß
1 Lord Mayor of
Hl'W” in h Prisoner, has a volume of
WlVhih ; istal ae Press, called “ Lays of
“without per-
ii. ’ anchor‘ r .f Sullivan, it will be remem-
q.-WiK iVh ( j,i celebrated “God Have
! i liSet a t Hynes -”
l °uld now retire forever
H , a ° f his papers, the Evening
h \Sl t 8 T ~l P d the loud timbrel for his
< C, Journal., and this is
vW ’hq wylatL’ an , instance of the intrinsic
VXr tHe ! f a journal, it was noted
ily": k of there were several
< ■ tlle Town and Country
'^foWw S) ’''fom' ri 1 ed at Vaucluse (near
XS. 6 the residence of Sir
ItrtW ’Si Ti,l >. sometime sheriff of the
Utr Xrn , lis a legend attached to
h. V- A anil Vv ’ as Pestered with snakes
of his family were
b W JWsrty d Put a covering of Irish
Pile U . did so, and the story
j, 8 since been seen at Vau-
XXto Griffiths’ ex-Treasurer,
WNlSofr hal foreign-traders and Bris-
VMt'X to u carried the system of
»Nl. Wt, V °teK ~s a P°gee. He is computed
a Property-holder in and
wf\Xr wid r He has openly re-
best °4. tbe labour party, and is
L'li i e Ht • 0 m ake the movement a
WiJ T ' as the shining light of
W'v'X (\v . 8 Government!
t\i Mil ''A \
squatter has made a
G' the undertaker. A clause
okAXv 1 ' a rs ( ]' 'j x,; cutors to bury him in a
tt:, l a t in the event of their
VX-iL bis W i trust” all legacies were
bJ- k WiX Ui. d and Personal estate was
U tßfu ln tenance of a liospital for
i. 'b 1 b l v,Wys ’ commands he sent in his
JV , a 'terward.s he 1 was buried
]t ar b had to chew a blanket.
NX ’ “Httu ALD ’ s reliable Paris
S\SV a ’ thus » ives herself
Nl'' Mnxime Lislxmne, who took
iWulA’ th, ? l ' 01 ' s that marked the reign
W k’ltlu''V Wvn J turning- ot public buildings
OX ''to** i, capital from the face of the
JWWi tk Uf ly oft, bie new President, has been
XWW Xl, 'defers at the Elysde !
"pill CWXiIlVu’ricfly these. Lisbonne
>ig a 1 the orthodox dress get-iqi,
t, ll ' ’? d . a t the phenomenon, a
fe '%A l bion ucriring to paint the lily,
lit -K Cln £ the appointment of
one of Carnot’s e<juerrir>-
This jest was copied as heaven’s truth by the big
British dailies, and it is thus that the observant
‘ special Paris correspondent ” is easily confounded
in his fastnesses. Selah !
The late R. H. Horne, the poet, when lie
lived in Robe-street, St. Kilda (Melb.), had a
swing in his back garden, and devoted all his
spare time to swinging the little girls of the neigh-
bourhood. Horne died in poverty, and the
present writer saw his watch sold at auction in
London for 18s. fid. “Orion” was very vain of
the supposed resemblance of his face and features
to those of the Bard of Avon. However, in this
lie did not stand quite alone, for there is in Aus-
tralia an alleged poet who actually shaves part of
his forelock to make his forehead bigger, and who
so fixes himself up in imitation of the frontispiece
of Charles Knight’s big book that he may be said
to “shave Shakespeare.”
Three years ago land was sold in Argent-
street, Broken Hill, for less than £1 per foot. The
same land was sold last week for £75 per foot
Fortunes are yet to be made.
Reynolds’ Newspaper, the only well-
circulated really Democratic paper in England, is
excluded from the House of Commons. Rey-
nolds, which is a weekly paper, prints 700,000
copies every Saturday. From this it will be seen
how fully the Commons represent the English
toiler.
“ Twenty-five sharks caught” is the vo-
ciferous heading of a long item, telegraphed from
Adelaide to Sydney E. News. On closer inspec-
tion, it proves that one miserable, moth-eaten ten-
foot fish was taken, and, on being split open,
proved to contain 24 young ones. This is a con-
crete example of the science of running an evening
penny liar.
GOOD NOOSE.
NOSEY BOB (Executioner-in-ordinary to his Honor Mr. Justice- ) reads in the SYDNEY
E. NEWS this paragraph:—“The hospital doctors think there is a strong probability
that the man who, after murdering his wife cut his own throat. will recover.”
The Salisbury Government was given away
like a bush poet at the last agrarian trial in Wick-
low (Ireland.) The principal Crown witness en-
tered the box and testified fluently against the
prisoner, and then the lawyer for the defence
tackled him till lie worked him up into a frenzy.
“ You’ve been badgerin’ me for a full hour, sorr,
he howled at last, “but a cleverer man nor you
was at me for two hours wonst an’ he couldn't yet
the truth out of me, an’ what chance has the likes
o’ you ? ” “ Good heavens, man!” cried the Judge,
“do you know that you are on your oath ? ” “ A \
coorse Oi do, sorr.”
New South Wales would be glad to hear a
few words of explanation from Parkes, Haynes,
Wise, and several other Freetraders on the subject
of the much-talked-of unemployed. For weeks and
months these gentlemen passed off a brazen fiction to
the effect that a very large proportion of the labourers
who received Government relief were Victorians
who had been starved out of their native colony by
Protection, and were left dependent on the charity
of Freetrade New South Wales. Much loud and
voluble language was expended on this alleged
fact and it was quoted till it grew bald as an un-
answ-erable argument in favour of the Foreign-
trade policy which tells us how Australia is to
grow rich by buying other people’s manufactures
and paying for them with money which we haven’t
got. The report of the N.S.W. Casual Labour
Board, however, breaks down this theory in one
act. According to this official document, out of
over 6000 persons relieved only 100 were Vic-
torians ; of the remainder, 1358 were natives of
N.S.W., and 4600 English and Irish. These
statistics have hitherto been inaccessible to the
general public, so that the assertions of Parkes,
Wise, and Co. could not be contradicted. But the
point which requires explanation is this. These
gentlemen had full access to the figures, and the
country would be glad to know why they garbled
them in so atrocious a manner, And “garble ”is
a, very mild word. after all.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. Government think of estab-
lishing a penny-post.
The N.S.W. branch of the Imperial In-
stitute —The Congregational Chapel, Pitt-street.
“No counthry can proshper whin it’s full
of absentays.”— Remark by Irish member of
N.S.W. Parliament.
Victoria has a surplus of 6,116,499 bushels
of wheat for export purposes. Protection is
rapidly ruining the farmers.
“No kontry, I say, can do no goots
mitoud an interior.” —Pearl of wisdom from the
mouth of Mr. Louis Beyers, M.P., of N.S.W.
There are 16,000 Chinkies in N.S.W., of
whom not more than 100 are females. Last year
there was a net increase by arrivals of 1663. There
are over 50,000 Chinamen in Australia!
Lord Rosebery is uncertain whether, ‘‘ at
the end of the next decade, home or colonial in-
fluence wdl predominate.” In the decade follow-
ing it is pretty Certain at this rate that England
will be a colony of Australia.
Parkes says the most prominent Protec-
tionists in N.S.W. caine from Victoria. Of course
this isn’t true. What the Hairy Bismarck from
Brummagem means is that the prominent I oretgn-
traders are all English immigrants.
Tennyson called England “ the land
where, girt with friends or foes, a man may speak
the things he will.” The 300 odd political
prisoners, at present in British g'aols picking
oakum, aren’t quite so sure about it.
It lias been remarked that the British
Government’s despatch intimating an indefinite
shelving of the N.S.W. Diyorce Extension Bill
came out from England in the same boat that
brought Dean Cowper back to Sydney.
The Queensland Premier thus dishes the
leader of the Opposition :—“A share of the profits
of productive labour belongs of right to the
labourer. . . . The whole of the losses of un-
productive labour must be borne by the em-
ployers.”
The debts of the Irish tenantry are now
in the same position as the arrears due by the
tenants to the landlords. We have an original
idea for squaring matters. Let the Irish land-
lords pay their tenants’debts. This won 1(1 con-
solidate their claim.
Mr. B. R. Wise, late N.S.W. Attorney-
General, is an enthusiastic and plucky yachtsman.
His idea of supreme happiness is to sail booming
along in a howling gale. New South Wales’ idea
of supreme political happiness is to see him sail
away in 8 howling gale.
Melville, M.P., on Premier Parkes:
“ The first time the bolts of Darlinghurst Gaol
dr'-w back and a "Rite mail walked in—-who was
not a thief or a murderer but a trade-unionist who
refused to work for low wages—was when the
Premier sent his printers to gaol,”
There is a N.S.W. statesman who, when-
ever he wishes to brace himself up for an extra
oratorical effort, puts brandy into his boots.
Which reminds us that Aspinall, half an hour
before making a big speech to a jury, used to put
a nobbier of brandy on top of his head.
Premier Parkes concluded his Junee
speech, the other day, with an appeal to the people
of Australia ‘ ‘ to lay broad and deep in this sunny
land the foundation of a great, free, and Christian
Empire. Not a great Republic, mark you, but a
great Empire. Parkes’ ambition keeps pace with
his senility.
O’Brien, editor of United Ireland, relates
that the first day he spent in Tullamore Gaol they
brought him along his food without a knife or fork,
and he only got these articles by resolutely refusing
to use his fingers. No meanness of insult or ill-
usage is too small or too big - for a British Tory
Coercionist Government.
Mr. Goschen, in his speech on the ‘ ‘ Love
of Work, at Aberdeen, praised German clerks for
adoring toil for its own sake, and not keeping an
eye on the clock with a view “to hooking” it as soon
as office time is up. (loschen is a Freetrader.
Were he in Australia lie could, on similar grounds,
praise the Chinese cabinet-maker'.
“ I have very clear and definite ideas as to
certain things which ought to be done if we wish
to strengthen the hands of those in Australia who
are for the Empire, and avoid playing into the
hands of those who are in favour of Australia for
the Australians, and let the Empire sink or swim
as best it can.”—Lord Brassey, in Pall Mall
Gazette.
The foundation-stone of the new N.S.W.
Houses of Parliament, laid at the celebration of the
alleged Centenary, is now enclosed by a neat and in-
expensive iron railing, such as a man of fair means
might reasonably be expected to put round the
grave of his mother-in-law. The stone is at once
recognised as being sacred to the memory of “ the
Pay v r e were Lagged, ’ and of the thousands
wasted in celebrating it.
The speaker who, at Brisbane Congress of
the Australian Trades-Union delegates, declared
that if there was any difficulty with the Imperial
Government on the question of excluding the
Chinese, the best way was “to cut the
painter at once, was cheered to the echo, and in
the procession which followed no cheers were
given with half the gusto of those which greeted
the legend “The Republic of Australia.”
The trick whereby men who have sold
their votes are kept under control by the Foreign-
trade agents outside, is clever. The purchaser,
goes into the booths with a blank sheet of paper.
This he deposits instead of his ballot-sheet, which
he brings out, and hands over to the purchaser,
who marks it and sends it in with some one else.
This accounts for the quantity of blank sheets
found by the counters in the ballot-boxes at recent
elections.
Premier Parkes is “altogether opposed - ’
to joining Premier Gillies in inviting Imperial
officers to come out and report on Australian
defences and military organisation. But this is
mere gratuitous contrariety and hatred of Vic-
toria. There is not, nor has there ever been, in
Australia, a greater shuffler over the dear old
mother country than Parkes. In this matter
Gillies has been guilty of the unpardonable sin of
taking the initiative.
Tn 1886 the oppressed Victorians, who are
so heavily taxed through the medium of Protec-
tion, paid £2,004,460 in Customs duties, while
N.S.W., the glorious land of commercial freedom,
paid £2,068,571, or £64,000 more than the slaves
beyond the border. And as the N.S.W. Govern-
ment boast much about the approaching increase of
the revenue, which increase can only be obtained
through the Custom House, or by means of land
sales, there doesn’t seem to be any immediate
chance of a change for the better.
“ Mr. Fletcher quickly crossed from his
seat in the front Opposition benches, and roughly
shaking off those who interposed, grappled with
Mr. Haynes, and catching him by the neck, shook
him as a terrier would shake a rat, saying, You
low blackguard to dare say tlmt I ever used under-
hand means to a Government official!” He pushed
Mr. Haynes (whose boot-heels scraped the ground)
with great roughness on to the Opposition cross-
benches, and held him there in an iron grip. Mr.
Haynes turned livid, and clung to the benches
with a scared and paralytic look, Extract from
X. B. IV. Parliamentary Report.
Brassey de Bread has “ given away ” Chief
Secretary Deakin. The ennobled pick-and-shovel
man has quoted speeches of Mr. Gillies and Mr.
Deakin, and asserted that these colonial statesmen
told him they enthusiastically approved of the
policy of the Imperial Federation League. This
is a death-blow to Alfred. He was a lawyer-
leader-writer whom the popular breath breathed
upon, and he became a leading “Democratic”
politician. “Whom the gods love die young,”.is
a most truthful proverb. Had Graham Berry
died the week after the Black Wednesday episode,
and Alfred Deakin a week before lie, decided to
visit England, Victoria would now have two
patriots to the good !
Says Lord Brassey in the Pall Mall
Gazette :
“ In Sydney when a public meeting was called to decide
what should be done in honour of the Jubilee, the Oppo-
sition whipped up so strong a contingent of its supporters
that there was imminent danger of the meeting breaking
up in disorder. That disaster was only prevented by the
hold expedient of bringing Lady Oarmgton, in full even-
ing dress, from a party to the platform. It was a pluekv
thing on her part, and it succeeded in preventing what
would have been a very awkward contretemps.
Here is, then, a full and frank and complete ad-
mission of what The Bulletin contended at the
time that the Imperialists, headed by the Sydney
daily press, were afraid of the - Australian party-
that they had to cal] in the protection of petticoats
and take refuge bqhind a woman’s skirts.
Mr. Tom Slattdry is an unfortunate Ghair
tnan of Committees. He occupied that position
in the N.S.W. Parliament two years ago, when
a majority of the then Opposition used to be in
a lordly state of intoxication by midnight. It is a
matter of history how they used to burlesque the
proceedings in their drunken revelries how they
hiccoughed blasphemy, and then vomited on the
floor of the Chamber : how the jelly-fish Premier
used to be continually pestered with the inquiry,
“Who the devil are you, sir:” how one of the
members went into the Speaker’s chair wigged
with a waste-paper basket and gowned with a
hors, e-rug. The outcome of the revelry and riot
was that Tom, who was “in the chair and doing
well as the irony of fate will have it, this
remark was attributed to Mr. Fletcher, M.P.—-had
several of the members bundled out. Tom was in
the chair the other night when Fletcher clutched
Mr. Haynes’s throat.


Another Step Towards Australian Independence.
IfjJJ'i f'lllll
VhU^B^
" «i| i jP?||Bw|j^w^pß


-rA
r.re.* >! I"
Ht y.Pf f‘7 *'
ij/b^£ e f'
si
N
72U Jfcr ’7 ' /
,ffu*Mo 7 S /*•„ M
4y rscme fS '
ryp °f .
'Y s e '9t" e/ * ar /4 \
6t’T</ /&& y <?/£? <? <of/C CV y s’frfulU^
7 f). j-^
7 k ?/ y?/e
//!/ 'O7
/cc '9 e J ,r) T / /*’ *
Dolors * nM
->«^* J
/ />^w^;? ce '-' .
Y* 1
*W*
V
tf/treip
"A , S
too Ace r dry as <z
W'ii; * ret,(, e fa. jj>c.<- L J <*»>
. J ’r\' $4(A&<aX "
KtIooDIQ rO*) C /
\,^ L '
K
ylt 4-^ co'ffc _
V /»*> & a,c/ Me,, I V)
>* 4*«. '<., s"'
Pastor Jefferis’ Practical Sermon to Young Ladies.—A Forecast.


It is an interesting study, the decoration of tables, and
there is a large field for the exercise of art in this direc-
tion, and many ladies give themselves to it con amove.
The fairies, the new minature Oil Lamps, the charming
Centerpieces and Flower Stands, and the new porcelain
Saltcellars we saw in Bray Bros., in George-street, would
add much to any table. "'
TH p Tj! plf T Tj*Q These unsightly subcutaneous
I! Xu Hi UJYJj Hi Iji {jiscoiorations can be effectually
eradicated by the use of Clements’ Freoklebane, and by
no other preparation. Harmless, safe, and effectual.
Beware of imitations which are useless. Sent post free on
receipt of 2s. lOd. N.S.W. penny stamps or P. 0.0. by F.
M. Clements, 141 King-street, Newtown, Sydney, or from
the City Agents, W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.*
A Slight Mistake. — It turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “ Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on the flowers, *
Sociely
Premier Gillies, the most inveterate of
bachelors, has met his doom, arid of course it’s a
widow, and her name is Smith. If Service returns
to political life, as he will, Gillies and the widow
want to have a slap-dash at “home,” and Victoria
will find them the billet ,of Agent-General arid
Generaless to do it on. ’Twas ever thus;
# • •
Miss Mossman, Lady M'll wraith's sister,-
has changed her name to Campbell, and the happy
couple are in Sydney, previous to departing
“home.”
* * *
Of all utterly insignificant persons, Mul-
berry Musgrave, the Queensland Governor,
takes the cake. At Government House he has
been a perfect nonentity, and when, a short time
ago, he lightened his five years “exile ” by a trip
home,” no one knew anything about it. His one
weakness is his belief in the beauty .of his lower
extremities. He loves to bedeck himself in mili-
tary tights and ride up and down through Bris-
bane with French, the band-box hero of a thou-
sand parades, and commander-in-secundum of the
local Defence Force. About a year ago they got
him down to the Johnsonian alleged Bohemian
Club (the haunt of all the bores in Brisbane], and
the hapless person brought down a written speech
in his pocket, which he recited and afterwards
handed over to Feilberg for publication in the
Courier. He feels acutely that we are all pil
griiris arid strarigers here, dear friends, and that
feeling niaketh him sad;
# •
It was noted by some' nasty inean thing
that at last Melbourne Derby Lady Loch wore
the gown in which she had appeared at the Derby
of the previous year. Consequently, it is becom-
ing fashionable in the best circles to make a dress
ast two years or more.
* • #
There is in Sydney a well-known masher
who, when he wishes to address a girl he doesn’t
know, followeth not the manner of the ordinary
prowler. His plan is to approach the fascinating
creature, hat in hand, and effusively unburden
Hinlself thus, all in one breath: “ Ah ! Miss Brown,
you afe indeed looking charming—delighted to
see yOvf; how did Alfred like the geese?” or
words to that effect. Of course the “Alfred”
arid “geese” business intakes the girl think that
lie has really made a mistake. Arid a girl can’t
speak to a fellow orice and forget him, dontcher*
know. $o that lie scores a semi-introductiori,
effectual for his purposes, every time.
An American lady, wife of a distinguished
American resident of Sydney, was lately asked
why she never attended the 4t’h of July demons
tration at Botany. “ Well, you see,” said she,
“ so many wives of Americans have been colonial
barmaids that there is really nothing American
about the female portion of the gathering-ex-
cept, it may possibly be, a very imperfect know-
ledge of how to make American drinks. ”
Bertrand, the amorous N.S.W. murderer,
is still heard of occasionally from the dungeon
wherein he has now spent 22 years of his existence.
He devotes himself to art, and with the permission
of his gaolers, lets off his fervour in strange daubs
of paint and canvas. In the old days, when he
was the leading toothsmith of Wynyard-square,
Sydney, lie let off his fervour in his diary instead,
and but for that incriminating record, from which
even Zola might learn a thing or two, he might
possibly have been a free man to this hour. He
is now denied the pleasure of giving himself away
in ink, and his brush is the only vent for his feel-
ings. On Sundays the prisoners, male and female,
attend church, the sexes, however, being kept
strictly separate. Some time ago, Bertrand, from
his pew, was observed to be gazing with earnest
eyes on one of the female warders m the gallery,
and that lady entered a complaint after service.
‘‘ I was only searchingfor female beauty,” explained
the fallen tooth-puller, with his old cynical smile :
“ I am now engaged in painting an angel, and as
angel-models are rather scarce in gaol, I was look-
ing round for a face which suggested an inspira-
tion.” The female warder wore a grateful aspect
at this. “There is sometimes a line or two even
in the ugliest countenance which is worth repro-
duction,” added Bertrand agreeably, and the
female warder suddenly stopped smiling, and has
not started again since.
• • •
The Tasmanian Government appears to
possess a backbone. That practical body of men
declined to allow the colony’s own powder to be
dissipated in 91 explosions because Emperor
William was being consigned to the cold tomb.
Two warships in Hobart harbour blazed away at
Britain’s expense, but the Government decided
that Tasmanians never would be slaves, anyhow.
So the batteries remained mum, and local sassiety
expressed much dissatisfaction.
. » *
She was a shapely young married woman,
and was rushing to catch the train. He ran
behind her ; and, just as they reached the plat-
form, he said, “My dear, this is our train, is it
not ? . . Oh !ah !—I really beg your pardon.
I thought I was speaking to my wife.” “Ah,”
snarled she, “ I’ve heard about you. I f you had
thought you were speaking to your wife, there’d
have been no ‘ my dear ’ about it!” Fact.
* * *
A Melbourne paper says that “ there is no
courtship in China.” John, we may here ex-
plain, can’t work so hard as a European.
Chinese gentlemen never exert themselves
more than is absolutely necessary. They are
spoon-fed by servants because it is too much
trouble to feed themselves. The doctrine of
Confucianism is “Don’t worry.” Their minds
are always exercised with thinking how to get a
thingwith the least exertion. But, after all, th is pm s t
be very hard work. It is mere superstition to
imagine that the Chinairian is i-UdUStridUS, hard-
working, frugal, and patient. He is patient when
he is obliged to endure kicks. When he becomes
rich he enjoys himself like any Christian fighting-
cock. He is then lazy, luxurious, ostentatious,
and patient because he has nothing to do. It used
to be imagined that Chinamen were cheap as
labourers. They are when they are obliged to be.
In the Northern Territory they are more expen-
sive than Europeans (when no 'European competi-
tors are about), and their trade-organisation is a
hundredfold more perfect.
*
In re the leading London show of the
season, the celebrated Dunn divorce case, a sport-
ing paper thus describes the parties most deeply
concerned
Mrs. Dick Dunn is a little woman, with pronouncedly
auburn hair and the usual complexion appropriate to the
same, said complexion being - suffused with the results of
sobs and scent-bottles during the trial. Young Wall is a
cheap-looking, dark-haired masher, resembling his
mother, who sat next the respondent. Whether Wall pere
was ever dark-haired don’t transpire, as wherever he isn’t
as grey as a badger he is as bald as a basin.”
* •
Cardinal M<mtti blessed a Sydney suburban
bell the other Sunday. If he only knew how fer-
vently the city bells were d——d every day in the
week he’d stay at home aiid give them a share of
his benediction.
* * •
Here is a little romance. An ancient
masher not long ago went into a Sydney shop and
there saw a very pretty girl. Of course he went
in again, and again, and then he went in once
more, and after making hot love to the sweet
creature for a whole fortnight he discovered she
was his niece, the daughter of his only sister.
• *
This is a short and simple incident with a
sentimental kink in it, and eventuated very re-
cently on an Adelaide steamship. He was a
curate, newly wedded, and he had engaged a
double cabin. The good ship had not lurched
NOSTALGIA.
“ HOMESICK, ARE YOU OLD FELLOW? HOPE YOU DON'T INTEND TO THROW
UP AUSTRALIA.”
on the restless ocean for more than one night
when symptoms of discontent appeared upon the
curate’s receding forehead, and he was observed
to glare upon his fellow passengers with an eye of
scorn. Nobody could explain this sildden animus
against them, and the sun again sank, and once
more night let down her back hair over the ship,
and tranquillity seemed to roost there. But sud-
denly the calm was splintered by the curate, who,
in his snowy robes of night and odd boots,
banged on the captain’s door, and complained
that, although he agreed with Matthew 36-38, and
Daniel 29-30, on the subject of patience, still,
when it came to being subjected to the fishy eye
of a thorough stranger criticising him in his
slumbers over the top of his partition, he set holy
writ aside and called on the captain to arbitrate.
The captain tried to soothe him—assured him it
was only fancy—and tried to shoo him back to his
bunk again, but the embryo reverend was obstin-
ate. He wouldn’t go back, and for the rest of the
trip that hymeneal cabin saw him nevermore !
* * *
There were two gusliy creatures in a train
going west, the other day, and they crowded
themselves up in a corner and spooned with each
other in a kissy-kissy fashion which was mad-
dening to the beholder. He was a plaintive green-
horn whom she had apparently annexed when he
wasn’t looking, and carried away to the altar
before he eould call for help, and he had an aspect
of agricultural imbecility and a misfit hat. She
was a girly being with a bird in her bonnet, and
she held up her mouth every five minutes and
said, “ Tiss 00, den.” He did it, too, every time.
Opposite them a lank, bony lady sat bolt upright;
the glittering eye which Providence had planter!
in her wooden countenance was fixed on them dis-
dainfully, and she snorted in a riotous fashion
which was calculated to promote a breach of the
peace. But she smothered her feelings for three
long hours until the female in. the corner asked,
“If icksey-wicksey was to die what would ootsey-
wootsey do without her ?” and then she felt that
a crisis had arrived. “Is your little boy very ill,
ma’am ?” she inquired, sympathetically, and the
greenhorn’s bride glared at her. “ ’Cause if he is,
all that petting and nussing won’t do him any
good. I’ve reared 10 myself, and I never made a
fuss when they were down with the measles, let
alone teething. If he’s bad just let him be quiet,
and if it’s only crossness that’s the matter with
him a good spanking would do him more good
than anything.” The newly-married couple fell
back heavily into the corner and there was no-
more gush that journey.
• • •
At the inauguration of the new Wesleyan
College, in Melbourne, (another institution named
after our Queen), Sir Henry Loch quoted Mr.
Goschen’s platitude that “ success depends on
taking a thorough interest in the work, whatever
its drudgery. ” Humph t
A flighty writer in the S.M. Herald sug-
gests as a way to train the hired girl in the way
she should prance, that the mistress and maid
occasionally “ change places, say, for a week.”
Exactly. And if Bridget was “ a foine gurrul ”
the master of the house would probably agitate to
make the week a fortnight ! How giddy the
Fairfaxes are becoming !
* •
An English teetotaller, who was engaged
to be married on a certain day, refused to proceed
to church till the intended bride had signed the
pledge. This the lady declined to do, and the
marriage was broken off. A number of people
who had assembled at the church to witness the
ceremony, on being apprised of what had happened,
proceeded to the bridegroom’s house and pelted
him with ancient eggs. But who shall say that he
wasn’t right, after all? The woman who won’t
obey her affianced lover won’t obey her husband,
* » *
An impecunious bank-manager was leav-
ing Melbourne, and, as he was popular, the well-
worn hat started to circulate. A friend of the
manager’s held it, and to him went the beneficiare
with the pathetic and ingenuous prayer : “ Look
here, old boy, none of your trumpery ink-
stands or silver salvers.” Tell them to send
nle a cheque that I can buy an object of art
with.” The highest object of art with that
“banker’’was a perfectly fitting coat. He got
his cheque.
* * *
According to a N.Z. paper, Miss Amy
Sherwin, the Australian warbler, has behaved
very shabbily to her hot-headed Dunedin ad-
mirers. It seems that the susceptible males of
that town, who trill a little themselves, or else
beat a side drum in a brass band, and consequently
have a fellow feeling for any wandering minstrel
who may stray into Maoriland, organised a
serenade which they intended springing upon t
j fair Tasmanian when she least expected it;
| news of the planned assault was fanned to the ea*
j of the F.T., and at the hour appointed the sifi
i little creature induced a local medical nia
j to carefully put her under chloroform, where s
remained in blissful unconsciousness, whilst
amateurs massacred the music out in the ,9b 01 '
Of course endeavours have been made to lintig 3
the insult by circulating an absurd story abou
surgical operation for a whitlow, but the excuse
of too superfine a texture, and it wont stand.
* » •
“Lady” Munro is back in Melboui‘ ue ®
regular swell. Gorgeous tartan plaid costume »u
tan gloves right up her arm.
* * •
Miss Boucicault played “ Sophia in
bourne and Adelaide. O where, O ! where ' as
Miss Boucicault gone ?
* # *
- * *
A well-known medico of Irish extract
was recently called in to see a Sydney shopk e *J| 10
who had been looking upon the rosy g°d- w
family had determined that the liquor- 8 . I ** jj^ e
should be stopped at once. “ Nonsinse,” ® alC , o jio>
medico, “ yer can’t break him off suddenly *^j e :
that. Ye must taper hirii off. Bring in a ’ j, e y
of whisky an’ I’ll help him me,self.” An** . |
made a week of it, necessitating another n* e(l
a Scotchman, this time- to get the pair off-
**, i 1
The female prisoners in
mutinied and kicked up a high old shindy
day a week or so back. We believe a d aSt
effort was being made to induce them to
winter's bonnets.
At Bundaberg (Q,), recently, there •
eight marriages in two days, and it is My, #>
that if it continues the local clergy will be a
pay their bills without the usual testimonial-
* * n
One of the leading N.S.W. Queen ’s I
sel was employed 10 years ago by a city
investigate a title to property worth over 1
His opinion was that his client had a perfectj
Over the same land there will shortly be
and the same barrister is engaged to j
former client s claim. Twill be interesting'i
the opinion of the past is read to a jury to
a careful and elaborate attack.
* * * Jfotl
The bustle doesn’t intend going out- j
much ! Colonial girls resemble too close-
seraphim. “Why do they resemble t» e 'sl .1
phim ?” we hear you ask. We aren’t going l ri s *
you. You might as well ask us why the a
Australian girl is like some parts of the oce»
* * * hW 1 I
In the last 20 years, 344 white won lo ' 1 . 1 . -is =
married Chinkies in Australia. The odd tn* ftp .j
that 168 of them are Victorians, 02 Engli®* l
Irish.
R. C. Casey goes north for his j
of the Warrego in the approaching Q*’ e l,j' s W
election, and will marry Miss Evelyn H arl
mediately afterwards.
* * #
An old squatter - lie is 70, if a day tli® j
resided in a spacious palatial lmmpy afar Kn rg’ l , l i’.
limitless West, lost his wife. In the > “j tn; '
gratitude of a big heart, he gratefully inar , l , e( l K
pretty Irish servant-girl who had nu r ! |
through a long and trying illness. But, a *A e 1
day the new wife fell downstairs and. 1)1 \
leg just above her graceful Hibernia®. I
“Nevermind, my dear,” said old |
his weeping spouse, “ I will buy you a 'yu 4*!J, j
new cork leg. There, now, my darling-' c e
yet some people aver that there is no ron
modern life.
* * * I
The old pupils and friends of » c^e^ e t j
Melbourne elocutionist have erected i
oyer his grave in a local cemetery. The
tion states that the deceased gentleman paeP' j
away at the age of 59, and then drops i*** 0 | 1
beginning—
“ Those whom God loves die' early.” ,
This reads like a nasty jar for the depn rt,f \ ... J
* * * iiunl'i|l
From the “Missing Friends’ e . j
the Melbourne Age : “Joseph, come h tgj
forgiven.” We suppose old Potipha* j g
packed into his little sarcophagus by *
He has had a good innings, but it t** ‘ *•
long-winded husband to outlive his wid°
apothegm is not patented.
* * * u , 3 {j| i
“T have been married twelve
day.” “Ah! that makes your. , mre®'
thirteen, and I propose her health with «*•
He never dines there now. . a
* j i 1 ’
. c U ed iV*
When poor Governor Loftus l* <*
carpet-bag and quitted Australian V ,
1 behind him a legacy of woe in the j
1 kettle which was afterwards fated to ;l y )( jg-Vi
| spectable solicitor. It was a short, P j, g(r ji>
’ satisfied looking kettle made of-silve r '' al , lll ct‘ t ’ 1 !) t '
! with crests, and when it was put up (I 1 * 1
Sydney the brokers bill “55.” Mr. b.v a jii)*Wj
torney, offered an extra sixpence, all< , j,|t* p
consternation of the trade the source u B tfr/ ;
j misery was knocked down to him. ’vi'y '
Study your own interest by using Pe» ie Jli o )ij' KiK,’
Patent Roller. Flour. It is made in the c 1
best colonial wheat by the newest pater • ce yo- j
The quality is exceptionally good, and
Your own success,
Dear sir, we guess,
Did not require much drudgery,
Though, reallyy you
Get fairly through
A fearful lot of fudgery.
But, work of love
Is that of Gov.
Whose taste is for fal-lalery;
His fame depends
On how he spends
The sum he gets as salary.
A TOPICAL SONG.
If a legislator takes you by the collar,
And dumps you on an Opposition bench.
And throttles you—O ! don’t attempt to holl* r >
Or even try to curse at him in French ; , y
You must wait until lie’s finished with your• ’
And never interfere with pretty sport; . .
Then, instead of wreaking vengeance with
waddy,
You must go for heavy damages in court.
Perhaps you find our ruling rather funny-y
Men didn’t so behave in days of yore ;
But why not make a decent sum of money
By letting someone rub you on the floor ■ ~
If a fellow plays “John Sullivan, the Slugg e *';
And fighting doesn’t chance to be your forC>
It’s wisest to attack him in the “ shugger,
And go for heavy damages in court.
The noble art of self-defence is cruel.
O ! never with your knuckles people hit,
But, after you’ve digested all the gruel,
Demolish your assailant with a writ;
Yes, haste to an attorney (on a stretcher) |
And tell him, with a meek and gentle
That you’re very much annoyed with Mr. 1
And will go for heavy damages, in court.


“ “Australian Ballads and Rhymes: Poems inspired
by Life and Sceniary in Australia and New Zealand.”
Selected and edited by-Douglas B. W. Sladen, 8.A., Oxon.;
8.A., LL.B., Melbourne, Australia. London: Walter
Scott, 24 Warwick Lane, rand Newcastle-on-Tyne, 188 S.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
f-that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Floor is the
best in the market
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Roller
r lour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
w. h. piling
AND CO., LIMITED.
Established 1853,
Are as usual showing tha largest and
be3t assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extiemely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
Special atten 4 ion is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY flret-c l ass and reliable instru-
ments :
HEBEI and leghleiter PIANOS,
Hie Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTEV & Co, AMERICAN ORGANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers a*e requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING i GO, ltd,
356 GEORGE STREET, three Doors from G P.O.
Melchisedec even ventured to remonstrate with
him on his recklessness in thus swamping the
market, and urged him to reconsider that sixpence
and repent and flee from temptation as eloquently
described in Deuteronomy XIX., and franticalk
tearing his hair, told him that he had a wife
and family to maintain, and if Mr. Lyons wen'
round buying kettles at this rate, they would die
in the Benevolent Asylum, and his aged seconc
cousin would end his days on gruel. The solicitor
tottered two or three times, and felt for his brains
but recovering a little, he asked if all this impas
sinned row wasn’t a little too much for a single
sixpence, and then shaking off the broken-winder
Melchisedec lie went home. Next morning, how
ever, when he called for the kettle anc
tendered 5s 6d, he was asked amid much applause
from the office boy for the other £l7 4s 6a, anc
then he discovered that he had been buying silver
at ss. (id. an ounce, and he rose and stated thai
the kettle might be struck by the bat of fate anc
driven right into the celestial spheres before he
would have anything to do with it. At latest
advices he was paying the balance claimed in ac-
cordance with a District Court judgment, and it
is understood that he intends to abjure kettles
entirely and depend upon a galvanised bucket.
• •
At Walgett (N.S.W.), on Thursday, 15th
March, Mr. W. ,T. Pearson, manager of Ulumbie
station, became the husband of Miss Best, of
Walgett. The ceremony was conducted by the
Rev. A. M'Clinchie, at the Presbyterian Kirk, in
the presence of a number of . spectators. The
bride wore a walking-costume of shaded pink silk,
with prune velvet petticoat and bonnet to match.
There was only one bridesmaid and a quiet wed-
ding breakfast, whereat the usual toasts were
drunk, terminated the pleasing event.
• • •
Lady Scratchley, widow of the former
Commissioner of New Guinea, is one of the lucky
ones at Broken Hill. Her brother, Mr.
Brown, invested £lOO on her account and has just,
it is stated, sent her £lB,OOO as the result of the
speculation.
• *
E. J. Shaw, of Sydney, was a milkman,
yet was his life no mere empty dream filled up
with pint-pots. He had a wife and two children,
but had teen separated from them for five
months. He fell in love with a girl who refused
to have anything to do with him. He called at
her lodgings and told the servant who answered
the door to inform Miss Palmer that if she did not
see him he would blow' his brains out. The girl
delivered her message and returned with the
answer “No!” The door was closed, and imme-
diately after the report of a pistol was heard. The
vendor of cow-syrup had fired a pistol into his
mouth and gone to live in the Milky Way.
Sladen's Very Latest: Am Australian
Anthology."
An individual who has from time to tin
courted notoriety as a rhymester, and who b
certainly achieved the proud distinction of makii
synonymous with puerility, ludicrousness, and co
temptuous tolerance the name of Douglas Broo
Wheelton Sladen, 8.A., LL.B., &c., &c., is on
more to the fore—this time with an Australia
anthology bearing the voluminous title to
found at the foot of this column. With a magn
ficent egotism in which alone he shines with
certain amount of originality, this present colle
tion contains more of Douglas, etc., etc., Slade
than of anybody else ! Of 264 pages, he occupi
22 with his own pitiful lucubrations. The firs
thing in the book also after the title-page is
dedication by Douglas, etc., etc., Sladen, whic
takes up two additional pages. In ti
biographical notes at the end of the volum
his (Douglas Brooke, etc., Sladen’sf own life
padded out to 25 lines. Poor second-rate Brunto
Stephens has only 23 : Harpur has 17 : Marci
Clarke 11. The compiler might have learnt
lesson in modesty from the veteran Chari
Mackay, who humbly apologised for the insertio
of a few verses of his own in his sterling “On
Thousand and One (ferns of English Poetry
In the preface Mr. Sladen writes of “A Voic
from the'Bush” that “the real author of th
poem once, ascribed to Gordon, desires that h
name should not be given in the volume befor
us.” Of course, most people know it to be thato
Mowbray Morris, once a resident of Adelaide
and now, or lately, dramatic critic of the Times
and everyone to whom Gordon’s fame is dear mus
not be particularly sorry that he didn’t write i
inasmuch as it is a puling piece of composition a
the best. But why does this line appear in th
Table of Contents :
DOUGLAS B. W. SLADEN.
A Voice from thf. Bosh .—Temple Bar. . . 1 S
Does Mr. Sladen imagine that those who do not reac
the preface will lie deceived into imagining that th
poem is from his pen, or is this typographica
arrangement the result of an accident ? Mr. Sladen
says of it in his preface that it is a poem “ which has
brought Gordon much popularity. ” If so, we are
sorry for Gordon. It may be liked in Englanc
because it is so affectedly English. It smells o
Mayfair. Pall Mall glares at you from between
the lines. The verses echo the footfalls on
Piccadilly pavement. The bushman is only ai
English swell in an eyeglass and a check suit ex
patriated for getting into some shady business
All the fashionable glamour that hangs arounc
names like “Jack Villiers,” “Byng, “Harry
Lepell, ” around suggestions of the ‘ ‘Garrison Cup, ’
“Brixworth Brook,” and “BarklyHolt” (don-
eherknow), make it popular in England. Gordon
can do well enough without it. It is no manly
strain, and t : lere is a world of affectation about
the Australian bard who would write “Bill the
Bushman ” between inverted commas. Of course,
Mr. Douglas, etc., etc., Sladen does not feel this.
He is an absolute foreigner, and the book is simply
a puff-advertisement of his own attenuated name
and the number of letters lie tags on to it. His
anthology is a London, not an Australian book. It
suits the Strand, perhaps, but it is out of place in
a bark humpy. He actually selects Holdsworth’s
“ Station Hunting omthe Warrego,” and quotes
it in its entirety, as a specimen poem of the ex-
ploratory adventurous type. Now Mr. P. J.
Holdsworth is an Antipodean cockney. To read
his verses, you would think he had never been out
of Sydney in his life. His knowledge of the War-
rego was apparently obtained from a cow-paddock
in Woolloomooloo where, even there, he was so
afraid of coming too close to nature, that he
wouldn’t sit down in the grass, peradventure
the seeds might attach themselves to his froek-
coaff or disarrange the immaculateness of his
Shakespwrian beard. Fancy two buslimen bearing-
such eupt.'l nistic names as Paul and Oscar —who,
m Sir Philip Sydney’s antique phraseology, invite
each other “to smile,” or ‘“not to smile” (it
matters little which) “at buffets,”and who babble
of streams “unbeaconed,” ete.—riding with un-
slackened rein for five days without giving their
horses a single drink of water! These remarks
imply no lack of appreciation of Holdsworth as a
gifted and able master of metrical expression. If
he is a poet, he isn’t an Australian poet. Many
of his lines are rich in colour and sonorous in tone.
There is a flavour of Fletcher, or Drummond of
Hawthornden, about them, with a lyrical grace
and rhetorical delicacy caught from Tennyson.
They happily combine an Elizabethan vigour of
phraseology, with the broad outlook on man and
nature of modern culture. Nevertheless, Holds-
worth is not an Australian poet, and as such we
refuse to accept him. Douglas, etc., etc., Sladen,
compliments Francis Adams—from whom he
regrets he cannot find a volume to quote.
But Mr. Adams, albeit a brilliant and clever
writer, one of the most distinguished of those who
have visited the glimpses of an Austral moon, is
not an Australian poet either, save in those fine
and impassioned verses in which he voices Aus-
tralian .Republican sentiment; in which he echoes
in spng the thoughts of the lonely bushman who,
in the solemn silence of the woods, in the dusky
forest glades where old King Billy has been
knocked on the head, has no room for the concep-
tions of regal grovel or the notions of sham kings
that would please Mr. Douglas, etc., etc., Sladen.
The editor of “Australian Ballads,” &c., would
never have the taste to appreciate, or the courage
to print Mr. Adams’ best work, notwithstand-
ing all the compliment. If he used aught
of Adams’, judging by what he has printed
of the others in this anthology, it would be some-
thing of the ludicrous—something like the fol-
lowing :
A TOUGH PROBLEM.
“ SHAY: BILL, BO YOU REMEMBER THAT DAY WHEN WE WERE SHOBER?”
“HIC! NO OLE ELLER, WASH IT THISH YEAR?”
THE SWA9SMAX.
“ Here there has been a fire,
the black stones stand ready.
Out with the Billy, Jacko ;
we’ll brew a jorum of tea.
“ Tom is off for some water
to the shanty we passed out there.
I’ll look round while you light up
for any signs of a lair.
“ Then we’ll squat by the fire,
till he’s back again, and think
who’s squatted here before us,
and then we’ll have a drink ! ”
We quote the foregoing because it is a good type
of similar stuff written by Englishmen who
imagine they are genuinely loeal and Australian
m their tone. Cockney warblers like William
.Sharp, A. Patchett Martin, and Robert Richard-
son (B. A.) are trotted out as typical Australian
singers, and a lot of valuable space is wasted
»y being occupied with their misleading
twaddle. Patchett Martin’s washy imitations of
k rederick Locker take up nine pages that can ill
be spared to such a purpose. The little book is
neatly printed, but it abounds in errors. It re-
flects the utmost discredit on its editor. Names
are allowed to appear in a variety of forms of
orthography, and no attempt seems to have been
made to compare them. A really fine, genuinely
Australian poem in Walt Whitmanish verse
by Thomas Heney, entitled “The Hut on
the Flat,” is signed “Thomas Henry.” G. B.
Barton's “Poets and Prose Writers of N.S.W.”
masquerades as “Briton’s,” &c. Charles Har-
pur has his name rightly spelled in one place to
have it misspelt “Harper” in four. Farrell and
Daley are dismissed in a sentence, “E. Lowe,”
one of the finest and most original of the really
Australian poets, is not mentioned at all; Mrs.
Foote is not quoted from; Lynd’s beautiful lines on
Leichhardt are omitted ; no example is given of
Richard Rowe (“ Peter Possum ”), who was much
more of an Australian literary man, and an in-
finitely finer one, than Alfred Domett who is
quoted ad nauseam. Mr. Sladen says his reason
for excluding several well-known writers was that
he could not get hold of their works. He should
have waited until he could. There was no hurry !
The world was not gaping open-mouthed and dry
of tongue for another dose of Sladen, who seems to
issue a book or two annually. Of course, Douglas,
etc., etc., etc., quotes a wretched bit of doggerel
from Sir Plagiarist Parkes, whom he insultingly
describes as “the Australian Gladstone.” If
Parkes is to Australia what Gladstone is to Eng-
land this is rough on Gladstone ! If Gladstone is
to England what Parkes is to Australia this is
rough on England! The book is a poor, dis-
appointing thing, only redeemed by an essay
°? Hendall’s genius as an Australian poet
of the bush. It contains a lot of rubbish
no book under the sun should contain. It lacks
certain pieces which any book of Australian poetry
is incomplete if it lacks. Nevertheless, every
Australian should have it, it costs only a shilling',
arid there is sufficient in the volume of Kendall,
Harpur and Brunton Stephens—although the
latter is a hardly-used bard at the hands of
Douglas, etc., etc., Sladen—to guarantee value for
the outlay.
• * *
But this is a world of compensations, and
if we are pictured by Douglas, etc., etc., Sladen to
the Londoner as a kind of lunatical scapegrace
i fy om belgravia, wandering 1 about in his soeks in
the remote bush, afar from the joys of properly-
made claret-cup and the hunting-field, we have
the consolation of knowing that this is the sort of
Australian the Londoner admires, and whom he
sends out his youngest son to copy in the land of
unlimited wool. The genuine Australian, how-
ever, will receive justice at other hands, from
minds holding 1 other ideals. At this very moment
we believe Mr. G-. B. Barton to be engaged on a
new edition of his standard work on “The Poets
and Prose Writers of N.5.W.,” which he is partly
re-wntmg, and supplementing by a vast quantity
of original matter. When complete, it will be an
exhaustive critical compendium of N.S.W. litera-
ture, brought down to the present time, and con-
tammg work from sources absolutely sealed to the
dilletante creatures who write knowingly of Aus-
tralian wilds in a Piccadilly club-room. In con-
chismn, we would parenthetically remark that
Mr. o laden s style of compilation is of an unique
and rather unblushing character. He did not
select from the works of known and acknow-
ledged poets. .He asked the bards to send him
their work, which many of them were too modest
tS q‘i -Everyone has not the cast-iron cheek of
Mr. bladen (the critic who quotes two dozen pages
of his own writing) and the many nonentities
represented m his volume.
Auckland (N’.Z.) has just been raided by
a flight of book-canvassers. Last year one expan-
sive Yankee, with a bound book, went through
the place, and then vanished over the horizon, and
it is presumed that this destructive animal left his
eggs m the sand, and that they have since hatched
out, and the brood has begun to pick up a livin;
I hey were a large and persistent crowd, but tl
worst of the gang was an exhausted-lookin
rooster who wanted to sell the “ Complete Chri
tian at two guineas. He worked hard at it, anc
many heathens were taken in. Among the rest
prominent merchant had the beauties of tl
volume pointed out to him, and though he d
clared that he never read any books at all, anc
that he didn’t want anything so expensive
brain the midnight goats with, the book-fien
stuck at him till he said in despair : 44 My wife
religious; perhaps she’ll take your miserable ho
wash. 111 ask her. ’ “Then I’ll call again tc
morrow, ’ said the ag'ent cheerfully. “ Yes, ca
<?r? fl ri rrow L ~ y°u! ’ moaned the merchan
Call at the bottomless pit and inquire for in
Dash the Complete Christian. ’ ” In the cours
of the day, however, he forget the bound-boo
persecutor, and when he went home tha
night he neglected to mention that there was
man about who required to have the dog set on 1
lnm at sight. Consequently, it happened that th
lady was taken aback next morning by an oil
stranger, who wanted to sell her a copy of “Th
Complete Christian, ” and who said that her hus
band had sent him up to place that estimab]
work before her, and, after much hesitation, sh
paid two guineas and took delivery. Just half a
hour later the same pilgrim dropped in at th
merchant’s office, and reminded him that he hac
promised to consider the advisability of purchas
mg, for the sake of his immortal soul, that spier
did moral production, the “Complete Christian,
and, in a burst of rage, the commercial man tolc
lnm to bash the calf-bound fraud down some
where, and take his money, and fall out of th
premises. Thus it followed that there were tw
“ Complete Christians ” in the house that evening
and yet the language used in the establislimen
was heathen in the extreme. But it was not ti
next morning that the glory of the book-hawke
culminated, and the zenith of his cheek wa
achieved. The merchant and his wife were a
breakfast, both in a bad temper, when sud
denly a gaudy vehicle, with four larg
spidery wheels, rushed past the. window
‘ It’s that eternally dashed wretch who sold yoi
the complete Sodom and Gomorrah,” screamer
the master of the house, and upsetting his coffe
all over himself he leaped for the door. The
spidery vehicle was just fleeing round the corne
and sitting in it he descried a glossy being with
shiny, curly-brimmed hat set at a rakish angle 01
the side of his head. It was no good attempting
to chase the outfit on foot, but just then a friendl
waggonette drove past. “Tom,” hollered th'
owner of the “Complete Christian,” “I’ll giv
you half-a-sovereign if you’ll fetch that fellow
back, ” and at the sound of this unexpected liber
ality the expressman started off at a fearful ba
screaming to the shiny American to stop. He
paid no attention to the invitation, however, am
a hot half-mile race ensued, in the course of whicl
the innards were almost shaken out of the wag
gonette-man, but at last he got close in the wake
of the retreating canvasser and delivered his
message. “ Mr. Smith wants you to come back,’
he hollered ; “Hi! I say, you ! Come back, wil
ye? “Mr. Smith wants me? Well, tell him he’s
too late. Icank stop.” “Too late for what?’
“To get a copy of the ‘Complete Christian,
of course. I would have let him have
it yesterday, but he couldn’t make up
his mind, and I don’t wait for anybody. Why,
I in fairly driven off my head with people running
after me to get that book.” 44 He’s in a precious
stew about it, anyhow,” said the expressman
thoughtfully ; “you’d better let me take the book
to him.” “ Can’t do it. It’s two guineas, and my
terms are cash down.” “Oh, if that’s all the
difficulty, I’ll give you the two guineas. He’ll pay
me right enough, /know him,” and the guileless
man with the four-wheeled cart produced two
greasy notes and two shillings in silver, and struck
a bargain forthwith. They parted amid expres-
sions of mutual friendliness, and the expressman
drove back to where the prancing Smith was
waiting for him. “ I got it,” he called out, as he
drove down the street, being - under an erroneous
impression that Smith’s evident excitement arose
from a fear that “The Complete Christian” had
eluded him for evermore. “ It’s all right. I got
it. “ You got what!” screamed the merchant as
he saw him groping for something in the bottom
of his vehicle, and he felt that the shadow of some
new disaster was creeping over him. “ Why, the
‘Complete Christian,’of cq.yrse I paid him the
two guineas —— “ Y</ 1 him the two
guineas ! You paid ■’maria, here’s the third
9 0 Py of the Complete Devil and ——— that’s come
into this house. Now, have you got enough of it
to satisfy your unhealthy appetite for literature ?”
and he threw the volume of pious meditations
violently ag*ainst the roof. It was some time be-
fore he recovered his equanimity, and his wife now
keeps the three “Complete Christians” in the
cellar, for when he catches sight of that master-
piece he always breaks something.


BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
BEALE and COMPANY*
482 j 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Haps burg- Pianos
The, Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages;
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURO DOUBLE IRON-FRAMEI)
PIANOS
Lossless the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4t,h. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Oth. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg.
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
Oth. The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Cold, or in
Ebony and Cold.
f^
P
m
fel
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
resserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
f all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
lated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
o tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
nd shuttle ; all pieces subject to friction made of
iest material and hardened; stands with rollers
nd adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great,
"he cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
V'asher is about One Shilling.
Beale Patent Waulin', Wringer and Mangle.
I’lie Beale Patent Washer may be simply do-
ibed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
the illustration. The vertical tub is very can -
ly made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
3 water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
;ely shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
ie clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
packing being wanted. The special reversing
tr moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
,rds, and a very small expenditure of strength
ffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
:Is. In the process the clothes are floated to am 1
i, up and down; currents and cross-currents ot
iter are formed which meet and are forced throngl i
d through the fabric, carrying away every particle
dirt and stain. The linen being’ merely sus-
NDF.n in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
in hand-washing. Neither has anything tn
limit to the hand-wringing process which m-
asibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
e most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
stem of washing. Everyone has noticed that
eir clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
ev get upon washing-boards, or by the hands,
ith the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
ction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
11 last far longer than by hand-washing, however
reful. When the washing is done, the tub sb«'Uci
wiped out, so that it lie always sweet and ci«ui.
lere is no false bottom, and nothing to 1 11
;e greasy sediments. b p t
Catalogues and Price Lists TV
BEALE AND COW >AXV ’,
482, 484 anti 480 Leorof. f r ' mET ’ S ' nVEV -
“Here or Murderer?”
When Mr. Rolls took his articled clerk to live
with him at home, local gossips shook their heads,
and the subject was commented upon at niany a
tea-table. The fact was, that Timothy Rolls, an
amiable and benevolent solicitor, who had enjoyed
for 50 years the confidence and respect of all those
who lived in or about Telnpleton and required
Jegal assistance, had grown very old, and some
people said very blind.
Like Sir Peter Teazle, he had taken unto him-
self a young wife-; not that it is to be understood
that Clara Rolls was by any means an infant, but
if it was not a case of May and December, the
lady may fairly be said to have borne towards her
husband a comparison like unto that which duly
bears to the last month of the year.
Clara had married Timothy Rolls five years ago,
when, at the age of 30, she had received no better
offer than that of the careful old lawyer, who had
notoriously acquired, by industry and economy, a
snug fortune. It was a little out-of-the-way
town, was Templeton, where everyone knew
everyone ; and though the neighbouring farmers
occasionally had troubles with their correspondents,
yet to old Rolls’ credit be it said that he kept his
business around him without sowing dissension or
inciting litigation amongst his clients.
But he could not help idle tongues wagging, nor
restrain the chit-chat of the women folk of the
locality. Perhaps he would not had he been able,
for he had too high an opinion of himself and of his
wife to have been affected by such a dainty bit of
scandal as that discussed at Mrs. Tombs’tea table.
Said this gawky, red-haired wife of the sleek,
demure curate to her guests, “Don't you think
Mr. Rolls is getting very old ?”
A slight titter ran round the company. The
only person who did not seem to recognise that
the commonplace question had a deep and un-
charitable significance was M rs. Crispin, who was
generally voted by her friend's to be a very stupid
woman. She replied to the observation, “ Yes,
lie must be over seventy now, and I am very glad
that Mr. Haines has come down to join him in his
business, for i am sure he must take a good deal
of responsibility off Mr. Rolls’ shoulders."
At this observation the titter broke into a
laugh, which might almost have seemed vulgar,
but that it was.universal. “A great deal of re-
sponsibility,” repeated Mrs. Tombs ; and there
was more laughter. In fact, it was pretty clear
that beneath the ordinary conversation to which
Mrs. Crispin had been guilelessly listening there
lay a substratum of humour which the had not yet
sounded. So she enquired what was the meaning
of the sarcastic hilarity of those around her.
Nobody knew anything, or, to speak more cor-
rectly, nobody cared to be the first, to say'that
Mrs. Rolls had shown, on more than one occasion,
a decided partiality for the good-looking, athletic
Ralph Haines, her husband’s articled clerk.
Perhaps, in a larger circle in a.town bigger than
Templeton— people have to occupy their time with
other things than those which concern their neigh-
bours' domestic life. Perhaps not. Wherever
there are men and women there will lie scandal;
and really Mrs. Rolls had done nothing to justify
the tittle-tattle of which she’was the subject.
Ralph Haines Was the son of a manufacturer in
an adjacent town. Having' devoted bis boyhood
to cricket, and such little of Ins maturity as he
had left behind him to the hunting field, he was
by no means a brilliant scholar, and it had been
with great difficulty -that he passed his first two
examinations for the law. In a year his third,
or final, was due, and it was ' arranged be-
tween his father Mr. Rolls that when
this was successful® Gll y posed of he should
become a partner with the one solicitor of
Templeton, and, of course, eventually succeed
to the whole practice. Mrs. Rolls had, since his
first coming, evinced a kindly, almost a motherly,
interest in her husband’s pupil. She had known
him since the second year of her marriage, and had
introduced hi-m to the small circle of society of
which the little town could boast. Ralph had lived
in lodgings until the last few days, when, accepting
with gratitude and akignty the offer of his em-
ployer, he had taken up his abode in the big, grey,
■stone house, on the ground-floor of which the busi-
ness of Mr. Rolls was carried on.
Whatever may have been his feelings with re-
ward to the lady who had shown him so much
kindness, it is certain that he had given the gossips
no outward cause for the suspicions they professed
to entertain. When in public he treated her with
the most dignified respect: true, he was attentive
in those small matters which women appreciate,
and in the evenings, which, perhaps/ should
have been devoted to “Stephen’s Commen-
taries,” he would read aloud selected pieces
from ’ Swinburne and Browning. Mr. Rolls
was invariably present on these occasions. But
lie was an old man, and after the day's work
was clone, a sleepy old man, who, cuddling him-
self up in a capacious arm-chair, missed the
delightful love-verses in which his wife took such
keen delight. „
When a young man of 21 reads certain poetry
to a young woman, even though she be a dozen
years older than he, and that young woman’s
fancy lifts her to the imaginative sphere of a
sonorous singer like Swinburne, we may be pretty
certain that her thoughts are not with an ancient
husband. Even a young and well-favoured
husband should consider himself lucky, indeed,
if his wife read poetry for his sake. With
Clara Rolls and Ralph Haines things were as
might have been expected. Each was madly
in love with the other, and neither had as yet
said so. Both were naturally too loyal to make
any declaration. The woman knew what was due
to herself and to her husband ; the man honoured
his host, and respected his rights. For Ralph
Haines was no libertine or debauchee. His
friend’s wife was as sacred to him as his friend’s
purse, and he would no more have thought of
filching one than the other. But, alas, for the
frailty of human nature ! When day succeeded
day, 'and Ralph still treated Clara with affec-
t ion ate respect, she would console herself with the
thought that she would not wrong her husband.
aiicl bear up against the disappointment caused by
the reticence of her lover in the knowledge that
she had, up to the present, honoured her marriage
vows. As for Ralph, a thousand times he was on
the point of declaring his passion ; but he was not
certain of success ; lie did liot know —love is pro-
verbially blind—whether he would be favourably
received, or turned out of the house. _ So he, too,
persuaded himself that loyalty to liis friend and
master, old Rolls, had restir.M;:<l him. Bui as
Francesca de Rimini yielded Under pressure of
poesy, so by-and-bye did Clara Rolls. Algernon
Charles is responsible for rihich df the sin which is
the outcome Of passion : and what two people of
opposite sex, and inclined towards .each other,
could possibly be expected to study “In the
Orchard ” and retain a platonic state of mind?
Poor old Timothy Rolls was fast asleep in his big
armchair when his articled pupil’s lips niet those
of Clara Rolls for the first time. It was
a spontaneous action. Yet neither was surprised ;
each seemed to have been waiting for the other.
Now it was all over. Thenceforth the gossips of
Templeton were justified, though they knew it
not. Outwardly, and so far as the world was con-
cerned,. the relations between the two lovers re-
mained unaltered. As before, Ralph went into
tea and tennis society with Mrs. Rolls, and treated
her with the deference that should be expected of
a clerk to his employer’s Wife. And so matters
proceeded, for several months.
The lovers grew careless— not of each other, but
of the lookers-on, who proverbially see most of the
game. It was played under the eyes, or rather
under the spectacles, of the deceived husband, and
because he, trusting and senile, could not see that
which was obvious to the whole world, his wife
and Iris clerk imagined that the universe was
blind.
Clara was, therefore, taken aback considerably
when Mrs. Tombs called one afternoon to see her,
and after begging for a private interview, tlms
commenced what we may assume was intended to
be a good-natured lecture of advice :
“You know, my dear Clara," said she, “we
clergymen’s wives have grave responsibilities, and,
what is more, we hear a great deal of gossip that
we shouldn’t listen to.”
“Of course not, ” acquiesced Clara, imagining that
some prosy story of low class iniquity in the parish
was coming to light. “ YVhat is the matter, Jane?
Can I help?”
“ Yes, my dear, you are the very person who
pan stop a scandal that is a disgrace to our town,
and most unpleasant for those who are acquainted
with the parties concerned?”
“I? Very well : I am sure you can depend on
me. Now, tell me all about the trouble, and we’ll
get to work at once.” Without noticing the grave
expression on her visitor’s face, Clara had drawn
her chair closer, and was quite anxious to hear an
account of the affair which was occupying Jane'
Tombs’ mind.
“ Supposing - ,” said the curate’s wife, - after a
pause, “that you knew that the wife of a great
friend of yours was behaving badly towards her
husband ! So badly, indeed, as to shame herself
before all her friends, and make him seem con-
temptible ; suppose, too, that the Wife’s lover--for
you understand, dear, what I mean by bad be-
haviour- was in her husband’s confidence, and
was trusted implicitly by him, and was vilely be-
traying the trust. What would you do as a friend
of all parties ? ”
Clara blushed up to the roots of her hair. The
blow had come so suddenly that it found her un-
armed ; she stammered and hummed and hawed,
and generally showed herself to be in such a con-
dition of confusion, that had any doubts existed
in the mind of her inquisitor, they must have
been relieved at once. At length she answered —
•“I should mind my own business, I think. If
the husband did not complain, and the wife was
satisfied, and the lover satisfied, and none of them
interfered 1 with their friends, I cannot see that any
interference for from them.”
“That is ah TljjJier a wrong view to take, es-
pecially for a tprgyman’s wife. We must con-
sider the moral aspect, the example to the parish,
our own self-respect, and the corruption of good
by evil communication. I should not have
broached the subject, but for your benefit, my dear
Clara. The truth is, your very evident partiality
for Mr. Haines is the talk of the place, and I
thought you would rather hear this from me than
let the scandal reach your husband’s ears from less
sympathetic sources.”
“ How dare you ! ” exclaimed Clara, in a burst
of commendable indignation. “ How dare you
come here to insult me and my husband and Ralph
- I mean Mr. Haines—with the vile gossip of
wicked women ! The accusation you make, or
infer, I shall not condescend to answer. You
dale not attempt to prove your abominable in-
sinuations, and 1 must beg you to leave my house
at once,” and she rang the bell.
“Very well, said Mrs. Tombs, rising to go,
“ since you choose to take a friendly admonition
in this manner, I shall seek advice elsewhere. It
is my duty to inform Mr. Rolls of what the hotel-
keeper at Edifice told my husband. f wish you
goad-day, madam,”
Edifice was an adjacent town, where Mrs. Rolls
occasionally went to do some shopping. Last
week when she went there, Ralph Haines, having
business in the neighbourhood, accompanied her,
and the two drove back together late in the even-
ing. Ralph was absent at Edifice on the day when
Mrs. Tombs paid her unwelcome visit, and poor
Clara was distracted, not knowing what to do, or
to whom to apply for advice. Having been snubbed
and, as she considered, insulted, Mrs. Tombs did
not long delay carrying out her threat. Imme-
diately on leaving his wife, she went to see Mr.
Rolls, accompanied on this occasion by her mild,
submissive, and reverend husband. Wliat passed
at this interview need not he detailed. Every
word uttered was a poisoned knife thrust into the
heart of the old man. Lawyer as he was, he
could not disbelieve the evidence adduced, and he
would rather have died than have learnt the truth.
For the sake of his honour, his reputation, if not
for the punishment, of those who had betrayed
him, there was but one course open to him. He
sent a curt message to his wife that she must not
attempt to see him or speak to him, and the next
day arrangements wQuld be made for her depar-
ture and provisional maintenance, until the Court
of Divorce should decide on her ultimate fate.
Clara, who had anticipated some such communica-
tion, received it with apathetic fortitude. What
to do she knew not, and Ralph Haines was not
expected home till midnight.
When he arrived; and had partaken of the sup-
per provided for him, he retired to his room, and
had partially undressed before he saw upon his
table a little three-cornered note, in a handwriting
he knew quite well. It said :
“ Come to our bedroom as soon as you get this,
knock gently on the door, and I will open it.—C.
Cautious as became a man about to be a solicitor
in a few months, he burnt the letter in the flame
of the candle, and, clothing himself in his dress-
ing-gown, obeyed the strange request. Passing-
softly along the passages, where no sound was
heard save that of the regular snoring of the sleep-
ing servants, he reached, unmolested, the door of
Ml - , and Mrs. Rolls’ bedroom. He knocked
gently, aiid waited in considerable anxiety, for
this was a bold action he was doing, and oile
which, unless ordered by the woman for
whom he would die,' he would not have
attempted. There was a stir from within.
He heard the cautious foot-treads of some-
one inside; the door was opened by a nervous
hand, and Clara Rolls fell into his arms Screaming,
screeching, and howling, in a fit of violent
hysterics. The emotion had been too much for
her. In the hour when she most urgently required
her strength she had broken down.
Roused by the shrieks, the servants came rushing
in. “What is the matter?” “Is the house Oil
fire ?” and similar interrogations, mingled with the
cries of the housemaids. All rushed about; 110
one did anything; Ralph was speechless, for he
knew not what to say, nor what excuse todfferfor his
appearance at sitch an hour in Mr; Rolls’ bedroom;
The old Solicitor Was the only person silent. He
had not moved in his bed, nor taken any part
in the outcry dr tUririoil. Arid for a good reason.
He would never speak again, his mouth was shut
for ever, Whether for good or evil, Providence
alone could tell. Across his throat was a huge
gash, iriflicted by a razor, which lay on his pillow
as the blOod trickled slowly down into a pool upon
the nrid»\
SO horrible was the discovery, and so absorbing,
that Mis. Rolls recovered from her hysterics un-
noticed, save by her lover, who was bending over
the couch on which he had tenderly laid her. As
she opened her eyes, and her mind returned to
her, she grasped gradually the situation, and
whispered faintly, so that none but Ralph could
hear, “Now we are all for each other, there is no
one between us. 1 did it.” But he, pressing his
lips to her ear, muttered, ‘My fault, my crime.”
And this Was the view taken by all present, and
also by the constable who had been summoned,
What doubt could there be of it? Ralph Haines’
razor had inflicted the murderous death-wound on
Timothy Rolls. Ralph Haines was found in the
deceased’s bedroom, struggling with the widow of
the murdered man, and Ralph Haines was exe-
cutor of the will, by which he was left a large
legacy, and under which he would succeed to the
solicitor’s practice. Had any reason existed for
doubting his guilt, was not his full confession
before the magistrates more than sufficient to
dispel it ? All the weeping Clara could say was
that she found herself in Ralph Haines’ arms on
the fatal night, and remembered no more. It
would not have assisted the case had she admitted
that this was not the first occasion on which she
had found herself in a similar position. Even the
Rev. Mr. Tombs and Mrs. Tombs saw no object
to be gained by repeating what had occurred at
their interview with the deoeased and his wife on
his last day on earth. They were satisfied that
they had done their duty to their neighbour, when
they gave him the information that made his last
hours miserable, and are confident that if the
judge and jury at the ensuing assizes cannot
believe in the prisoner’s insanity alleged by his
friends, he will meet a just punishment in being
hanged by the neck until he is dead.
Distress for Rent.
A few days ago a poor struggling farmer, near
Bathurst, went the way all the N.S.W. farmers
will soon go, and was sold off for rent. There
was a poor attendance at the auction, and nearly
everything went for a song. A 20-ton stack of
oaten-hay was sold for £4 the lot, and was after-
wards cut out and sold in Bathurst for £2 10s. a
ton ; 29 bags of wheat were knocked down for 7s.
a bag and re-sold to a Bathurst miller for 14s. a
hag. The family of this unfortunate wretch con-
sists of himself, wife, and eight little children, and
the bedding of the lot was put up and sold for
half-a-crown. Any law which, under any circum-
stances whatsoever, countenances the forcible sell-
ing of the beds of women and children is a brutal
law, an outrage on humanity, a savagery which
should be fought against by every man who has
strength enough to walk. The voice of nature
tells every true man that the capitalist who would
sell the bed from under little children should be
resisted by their father to the death, if necessary
—even as the voice of nature tells the starving
man that he has “an inalienable right to the rich
man’s bread.” The wandering tribes of
ancient Israel would allow living men to
be sawn asunder, but even they would
not permit one man to deprive his necessi-
tous fellow-man of the couch whereon he slept.
Is it the wish of the Australian citizen that the
landlord who shares the proceeds of land stolen
from the people shall, merely because he “ owns ”
that land, have the power of life or death over the
helpless woman and the little child ? Whenever
we see posted up outside some humble home the
sheriff’s notice, “Distress for Rent,” or see ad-
vertised a rent-forced sale of articles bought
with the proceeds of the toil of the labourer and
his wife-bought from the time-payment usurer by
painful instalments representing so much human
struggling, patient self-denial and self-control —we'
feel a shock just as revolting as that experi-
enced on the perusal of the narrative of the most
brutal murder. The atrocity of the act comes
home with tremendous force when one reflects
that every shilling of interest overcharged has
been paid with an hour or more of laborious toil.
Another thing—if the beds of women and children
are seized, why not take the clothes from their
backs and turn them naked on a cold and pitiless
world whose inhuman laws permit the usurer to
take their beds from under them ? Why stop
here ? Why not draw out their teeth and sell
them to the dentist ? Why not rob the women
and girls of their ornament of hair and sell
their tresses to the barber ? Why not take
possession of the labourer’s body and sell him
into slavery until his debt was paid ? And if he
died before it was paid, why not sell his corpse
to the dissecting surgeon ? Which, after all, is
not one whit more revolting than seizing a man’s,
or his wife’s, or children’s, bedclothes. A corpse
does not feel the cold !
Messrs. Alfred Lawrence and Co., of
Melbourne and Sydney, have a novel and in-
teresting exhibit at the Sydney “ Centenary
Universal Exhibition,” in the shape of an ice-
machine to be worked by hand. It produces ice
in three minutes and in abundant supply for
household purposes, and should prove a great
boon to dwellers in the sultry inland districts.
The machine is of simple construction, and
can be worked by a child or an 'idiot
with equal facility. The firm also exhibits
Barnett and Foster’s soda-water machinery, es-
sences, &c.. and all the requisites for brewing and
the manufacture of aerated waters and other
beverages calculated to drive the cork out and
send it into the eye of the thirsty stranger when
he attempts to open the bottle.


Amusements.
it
e Le
ssees,
MAJESTY’S
THEATRE*
Messrs. Rignold and Allison’
' > 1 ©rformanec 8.; Carriages 10.30’
Ra^ ST NIGHT of
«ANRs in the ranks.
Alr - GEO. RIGNOLD
v- and
w* iE ® kate bihsop.
ft pi Ces ’ 5s ’> 35., 25., Is.
sf Ar-n?, at Nicholson and Co.’s,
i Acting Manager.
Go.
R a music hall,
N
Ar° r and°A? c s^reo< > Haymarket.
Vlw Tana S cr ... Mr. Frank Smith.
... Mr. H. Barrington.
THE CHIEF
V J? X POPULI
fll wiTTp w, Queen. xn
IN THE cr _.
NIGHT with aßAPTUß-
t i l\fr^Uor,fc to witness the UNPRECE-
SV ~ C ESS of our New Artists—Miss
«A&W v n n ]Vtr - HURRAH, and also of
0oi&-i9 raydon > ancl Holland, making
l&oo,
U T WE GO ON FOR EVER.
V ‘ n^EUL—
UL AR PRICES.
25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
IX, Y EE royal.
* r the Management of
CH( 'W. s Y' nson > Garner, and Musgrove.
‘0 n azar i Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
A ifljjrp crture at 8. Carriages at 10.30.
’ Thursday, march 20,
k. W J J1 E mikado.
Jjw _____
YY NI(} HT, PINAFORE,
pickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
v STANDARD THEATRE.
H^l\ X lw\m/ RDAY ’ MARCH 31.
R N| Na NIGHT OF
b e to BURLESQUE COMPANY
NaSt A x
P rlces ~ :3s -, 2j . aa <l Is.
, Recreation grounds
S
RB E j
AND
N PALAC E.
\ Afternoon
and Evening.
'Hi
Recreation Ground Band
' att cnd every
>6 J ksn r evexy
\;V. AY and Saturday Evenings.
\l a M Skat
'H: Rink can be booked for
*«S |>nu f . o iViiiiv UtllJl MU UUUJHJU J.Ul*
10s > Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
\ r) g olllin e Events:
BftUc k Afternoon and Even-
llin g Run of Bicycle Clubs of
V 2 l v
j .K^kt
ltH^ N k otse s v'^d- 118 Carnival (invitation only)
% 3 N s,°' v hij>i r icycl os, Warner and Wiburd.
k Nor B,? Sports.
(. ' lri '4 lefj( _ ll E lc yele Sports.
Gl Unity of Oddfellows Feto.
Q °N
J^ SoNa bm Terms.
WYBURD, Manager.
Amusements.
ORITE R I 0 N THEATRE.
Sole 'Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
GRAND COMEDY SEASON.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
Sydney Endorses the Verdict of
LONDON AND MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
COMEDY
SOPHIA SOPHI \ SOPHIA SOPHIA
SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA.
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager E. E. Hiscocks.
Manager for Mr. Kennedy ... H. P. Lyons.
THIS AND
EVERY EVENING, AT
8 O’CLOCK.
PROFESSOR
T. A. KENNEDY.
Tho PRESS SATISFIED.
The MEDICAL FACULTY CONVINCED.
The PUBLIC DELIGHTED.
Prices, 45,, 35., and Is. Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Business Manager, L. T. LOHR.
JgOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest!—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FR ANK SMITH, Director.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS,
AND PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink.
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Auctions
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD,
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railway
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less than two miles from Menangle
Station. Divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AREA, 2063 ACRES.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intending departure from the
colony, to submit to auction, at tbeir rooms, 130
Pitt-street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April,
at 11.30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly
improved properties ever submitted for sale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE’S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUSE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings,
stables, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &c„ &c. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&c. Elevation above sea level about 600 ft,
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains.
*** It being impossible within the limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MOUNT GILEAD, a desciiptlve ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate will be submitted in one lot, and
should tho proprietor fail to obtain a price com-
mensurate with the value of the property, it will
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 50 ACRSfS to 400 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspect at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers. >
TERMS AT SALE.
Hotels
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
YISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light’
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-’
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all of her hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia, Visitors can’rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices verv
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor,
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling public.
(Business Announcements.
THO
mmmm®
T&N
“ They fit perfect!!/, and a:'c
far superior to all the other
Corsets l hare tried."
(Signed) Marie lloze.
THE
Y 4 N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Dorset
Will not split in the Seams
nor tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com-
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals !1
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
v® : '
lo
■
Sydney, N. S. W. , Feb. Ist, 1888.
Marshall Brothets,
Gentlemen,—Not feeling well, I procured some
of Marshall’s “ Tonic Nervine,” having been ad-
vised to take it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of its grand staying and strengthening properties.
Yours very truly,
CU^
Ex-Champion Oarsman of the World-
W ANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulietin
office.
Business Announcemer ts.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers,
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 Clarence-street.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BBIAH PIPBS,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRTAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prenared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLD SOB MIDT & OOr,
231 OLAItENCE-STREET.
aBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRTAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
HAMUMfTu*£RJ
t, importers or
HATS CAPS St
« —r
438 CEORCE $
3VDNEV
of
&
Amusements.
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
NOW OPEN. 1000 INTERESTING EXHIBITS.
BROOK’S GRAND FIREWORKS!
Every Tuesday and Friday Evenings.
CARON’S FASHIONABLE CONCERTS I
Every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
U7HEEI BRIGHTON OB’ 3ST-S.W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc , are
served on the diortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrourdu g country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkr to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING
Sorrento and
HOTELS,
Echuca,
TTictoria..
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most, fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in. the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Largo Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First -
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards. Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ik. t. Spearing; S Co.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late ok
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N,B.W„
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SI'E A RING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guest s visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Privat e Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. D. L Spearing,
PROPRIETOR.
BRIEF MENTION.
Local hop-shun;
u eerage to Peerage—Alsop.
wonder—Jawbone Neild.
flies' 1 lias six liotels and four
A Ch' ° Ur c^lu ' c l* es are a great many.
(Vic'? ftan a man’s head at Sand-
forte W^le Cracking nuts is the
jp f Spanish donkey in North Queens-
3re ei> mu l es > Most of them
1,1 ee P quiet, Oi’ll be compelled
■ lf bon 2 the chair.’' —Statement by Sydney
Th e layo) '-
» r WbLav f . l deceased usurer carries on
* a Ini, • iciness in Sydney. This is what
Ojj Wld °\v.
IJ 1 ? sticking oll a me a bank-robbery meant
°f a bank. Now it means a ‘ ‘ bank ”
Aweli v meone else-
ty°^vinit°»^l Australian Methodist “ doc-
the ( .2 I s accustomed to speak of 1 ‘ being
Jolin n
tnh lle, l ov (^ es > °f Mudgee, has been
H "'ill b P J^ e ?°als. ” The point of this re-
Perceived in Newcastle, if not else-
£tSands’ Sydney Directory”
Sum 1)6 Vor,«J on Thursday this year. ’ It
May, 1 eel Easter Monday will not fall on
announces that he will
e or any debts contracted with-
-1 v authority, and winds up the ad.
. ‘The Sno°ks his mark.
& for a * ce Melbourne require an
l W>tth a f aBe of w hisky.” We guess they
th e IT** very much. This is just
• rcimary policeman loves to have in
i r f'-y * n Melbourne decorated his
Qf totlS on Patrick’s Day.
' & • Prangemen recognised their
foicked^ IIS^ ICe ass ’ we muf, t acknow-
Tv" m
of / reports that “there were
\y Vlns b°rn in the city and suburbs
tyJ 0 hand e ai '° Slab to hear that twins now
»» I ttVeniLi 6 ?# y Packed. It is ever so much
lent than the other way.
aq[ b’ranklyn, Esq., writing to the
Sn p h'athp ZETTE ’ s P ea k s of Sir Henry Parkes
vt °i. the federation movement in
v st he W'av is a bit of a celebrity him-
. °‘ movements from Australia.


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament. 37 Vic..
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... ... ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under 12 months.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward*.
NOTWITHST a NDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing *
£7 per cent, for 3 years
£6 „ „ 12 months
£5 ~ .1 6 months
£4 „ it 3 months
With Cash Bonus if renewed
I at the rats of £1 per ce"t per
j annum, or withdrawable on
) notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEX MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers,
Read this announcement. It largely affects your
interests.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS »ND IMPORTERS,
GBO and 682 George Street, Sydney.
HATE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and Bilver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIA L LINES.
Iri
6
H
ARMY AND N vVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING.
Is still the most popular Brand in the. Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CR_>IG AND AITKEN.
FTNE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s., 145.,
p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American), finely flavored,
best value in the market, jib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in jib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavoured.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality.
CRAIG ani> AITKEN.
lIAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
inoderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash promptly attended to,
Pay Particular attention to the Address :
CRAIG and AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 Goorge-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Bole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY Tobacco
and Cigarettes. Price List on application.
Time is Money.
Time and money ■will be saved by keeping Dr.
bell’s bitters in the house. Ib is an invaluable
remedy for all disorders of the kidneys, liver and
bowels, and for all diseases arising from obstruct-
ions of these organs. Ib has cured many obstinate
cases after hundreds of pounds had been paid to
physicians without obtaining relief. It cures
constipation, piles, biliousness, and all kindred
disorders. Keep it by you.
Children starvi ■■ o to death on account of their in-
ability to digest food, will find a most marvellous food and
remedy in Scott's Emulsion or Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hypo phosphites. Very palatable, and easily
digested. Read the following testimonial: "I have pre-
scribed ‘Scott’s Emulsion' in oases of children suffering
from wasting and mal-nutrition, and can report most favour-
ably of its good effect; it has been in each case taken most
readily —W. Perkins, M.RC 8., Medioal Superintendent,
Burleigh Hospital, England.” Any chemist can supply it at
4s Gd
Gloomy forebodings, Sleeplessness, Violent Headaches,
Nervous Irritability, and Heart Palpitation all arise from
a disordered Liver, and nature’s own remedy is secured in
Dunstone’s Compound Essence op Dandelion and Liver
Pills. Instant relief, and speedy and permanent cure.
Pleasing to the taste. Is also a certain remedy for Gout,
Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Lumbago. Wrapped with
each bottle are copies of testimonials which will convince
the most sceptical. Dunstone’s Compound Essence of
Dandelion, ss. per bottle ; Liver Pills, Is. per box. Whole-
sale agents ; Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney.
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob-
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
FEEBLE LADIES.
Those languid, tiresome sensations, causing you to feel
scarcely able to lie on your feet; that constant drain that
is taking from your system all its elasticity ; driving the
bloom from your cheeks ; that continual strain upon your
vital forces, rendering you irritable and fretful, can easily
be removed by the use of that marvellous remedy, Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Irregularities and obstruc-
tions of your system are relieved at onep, while the
special Cause of periodical pain is permanently removed.
Will you heed this ? “Cincinnati Saturday Night.”
ONE EXPERIENCE FROM MANY.
“ I had been sick and miserable so long, and had caused
my husband so much trouble and expense, no one seemed
to know what ailed me, that I was completely disheartened
and discouraged. In this frame of mind I got a bottle of
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters and used them unknown
to my family. I soon began to improve, and gained so
fast that my husband and family thought it strange and
unnatural, but when I told them what had helped me,
they said, “ Hurrah for Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters'.
Long may they prosper, for they have made mother well
and us happy.” The mother. “ Home Journal.”
The Happiness of Millions.— On what does the hap-
piness of populations or individuals depend? On that
inestimable blessing—Health. Ought it not then to be the
study of every Colonist to ascertain for himself the best
means by which this priceless boon, once attained, can be
for ever preserved? The answer must be in the affirma-
tive. A large number of Colonists in New Zealand are
aware that there is a medicine which not only wards off
Disease, but rapidly cures all maladies that occur there,
and actually prolongs life. This invaluable medicine is
Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne, which cures
and arrests” in their very earliest stages, all the Diseases
that happen, not only in New Zealand, but in all the Aus-
tralian Colonies.—Sold everywhere throughout the
Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject
substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an Ele-
phant.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For tile extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W, Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E, Prosser &Co. :;
Health is Wealth.
It is worth more than riches, for without it riches
cannot be evjoyed. How many people are with-
out health who might regain it by using Dr. bell's
bitters. It acts upon the liver, bowels and kid-
neys, cleansing ;and stimulating them to a healthy
action. It cures all disorders of these important
organs, purifies the blood, and promotes the
general health. Sold by all druggists.
I’M A and eastern merchants,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
■ »
IITDEITTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
■'•Vi
BEFORE TAKING,
(FROM LIFE.)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine.”— Proverbs 17-c, 22-t>
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZED"IRON QUININE TONIC.
REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tiesues with
food. It has no equal. It feeds the Bra n, Blood,
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Miuscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effec: upon the
whole system, removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d. From all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the manufacturer, W. F. CAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitations. Take no Substitute.
sM
AFTER TARING.
(FROM FIFE.)
Business A nnouneeine ll^
ROW'S
Dandelion
We recommend these BITTERS toj> e
or three time 3 a day ; a wineglassfm Iu
smaller quantity for chi dren. BO m»ti
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, l
and Cataneons Affections. -ciallf
The action of Dande'ion, more esp rre # (
the liver and kidneys is more reli *;f fi r medial
ing all impure secretions than aay othe
plant known. _
Personi suffering from Skin Pise* 8
these Bitte ra invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE-
One wineglass two or three times a f 1
meals, diluted with same quantity ot , c 83 »!!
young people about half t he quantity
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD ANP
SEE WHIT A MEDICAL GENTLEM4-
A BOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co. unttls o^
W ith thanks for forwarding me a oo
Row’s Dandelion Bin ere, and consi< lsr^ a ( ; j!!>
excellent, and superior to many others |
previously tried.
Yours faithfully? _
HENItY CHARLES t 1
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886,
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasur* ftVB t<j
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
suffering for several years with lL' e ,
and been under several doctors for jjfi
curative result, I have only taken t
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel <T U S?I $
man. I can, therefore, with tb®*'
all who suffer from liver eomp’aint
Y °" tS ' O. P. CFJO**
Tamworth, Aug ns t 21, 1880.
v J.F-
, rec e "
Read an expression of thankfulness
the undersigned : .. ge d to; 1
“I have for many years been oO » |oll9 o
medicines of different kinds for a"e )B #,
liver, indiges'ion, pain in the chcs ' eS i, L
bility, feelings of nervousness, e * r fl n
depression of spirits, and so on ’t If' 9 ', 1 , |i |!
producing any beneficial effect, tm
recommended to try ROWS D- i r od llC k
BITTERS, which, happily, I And has V
unexpected and wonderful effect ft
my system, and has removed from
horiibly depressed feeljng and form® 1
bodily ailment I have so unhappnJ j
for so many years. nvA e 3 f 1
“ I am glad of the opportunity 1° A y ply
the excellent qualit'es of IIOW S
BITTERS, that those who are
been m »y take advantage of them*
“ 1 remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully
“MARY TE>f
“ Carlisle Cottage, e y /
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company,
DOWS
FvEMBROC/
I
i:
Bqw’a &W6 S a'B
Is a safe and supp stimulant fot. lll . e() s 0 *<
child en. fc'n* II raises and streng l
VJ.iuA ..*ll, 1.111 il inioua tuiu o>-*- - poTH*' .
systems without producing a 1 ° ,-cS 9 *° J tit e y
ment to te followed 1) ? grtater dep ~ppej tl ,f !
Persons Buffering from loss 0 b 6
general depression of spirits canno
tak ° . xfflQ 0 ' p
Row’s Stoano « w *./,,
t <jo ® rr i
It. cannot harm you. but m” s ' <'«» /
delicate persons. Yocng 'nty*
when suffering from general deb 1
pure tonic. Try it.
./fXVi
Read Certificate respectuW
“ Having carefully examined a p
Jittv oik carci uny - uy
‘SteaneV Wine, manufacture® , r y
, ~ IT . , . 8.1. a,
tonic, suitable for persons suA®
digestion, being perfectly ft e f’ o pm pi
chemicals, too often used in su ( j r jii* ;
They should become a favourit J
warm climates. f Qp (
(Signed) JOHN M‘KlL W
“Sydney, December 23, 1884.
Row’s Steane's
has also weaned many per-rons
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this
froih
tJi«‘
of 11
TONIC answer all the purpose B
without its intoxicating qualit5 r - p 11
the cravings of nature and create .jp;
instead of drink. As an ante
passed.
TRY THEM*
Hotel-keepers all
ROW'S ASSORTED 3
containing'
ROW’S STEANE’S
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTER?
ROW'S ORIENTAL BlTT®***”
ROW’S QUININE
ROW’S DANDELION W
BARON BERZELIUS BUCB
ROW’S ASSORTED WIN® B
Sole Propri® l,o^-.
Edward Row &
*l3, 45, 47 GEORGE STR^
WHAT HE WANTED.
BARBER : “LET ME PERSUADE YOU TO TRY OUR HAIR RESTORER.”
SQUATTER: “ HARE RESTORER BE BLOWED! GIVE ME SOME RABBIT
DESTROYER IF YOU’VE GOT IT.”


Business Announcements.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
+
THE 025TL-S-
-UUSICALIISTIUMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
n EG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favors,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
Musical Instruments
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments for our new premises, and can
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGGORDEONS
is something marvellous.
c
patent brass noted accordeons,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, &o.
PATENT STEEL NOTED ACCORDEONS,
30/. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 42/, 45/-, and 50/-.
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACOORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-. 35/-, 40/ , 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/-,
PATENT GERM \N SILVER ACCOBDIONS,
3 ’/'* 32 /o'< 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/ ,up to £4.
1/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/- 25/-
30/-, 35/-, 10/-, up to £l5,
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German... ... 3,5 .
~ ~ steel notes 50/-!
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key. complete
for 21/-.
Ia Banjoes we hava the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/ , 20/ , 30/-, up to £l5 15/-,
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE:—
5 6 or 7 string n'ckel Banjoe3, £3 10/-.
5 > 6 or 7 „ „ „ i io/.,
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zamplnani's at 6d , 9d , and 1/-, each
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewington's at 61, 9d., and 1/-, eaoh.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES PITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SINIONSEN,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
The Salvation Army, in Melbourne, is be-
coming' very familiar with the apostles; some of
its members now speak of “Jack the Baptist.”
He was a young man and proudly ex-
claimed : lam an atheist! ” And then arose
the old agnostic. “ Young man,” he said, “you
ought to be happy. lam 70 years old and doubt
everything. I even doubt whether after all there
may not be a God. ”
One Taylor has got into trouble in London
through delivering hampers of bricks at the
palayesof England’s hereditary nobility and col-
lecting half-a-crown for carriage. Mr. Taylor is
stated to be paralysed in three different languages
which makes him unable to earn £4O a week.
Dr. Cross, the medical gentleman who had
the misfortune to be hanged at Cork not long
since, was described as being “of Shandy Hall/’
and the upper classes were nearly going to the
hangmg under the impression that he belonged to
the landed gentry. Fortunately- however, they
ascertained in time that the family seat of the
assassin was a four-roomed place with five
windows, and that not _ being provided with a
backyard the underclothing oi the establishment
j out to dry in the front garden,
and they all stayed away from the final ceremony.
An Oamaru (N.Z.) sporting man took a
favourite greyhound to a station sheep-dip for the
purpose of putting it through.” As he raised
the dog in his arms for the purpose of flinging it
m, the animal suddenly put its forelegs round its
master’s neck, and the latter losing his balance,
both went in together and disappeared. The dog
was the first to bark out. During his immersion
the astonished doggist swallowed about half a gal-
lon of the dip, and was from that time cured of a
long-standing disease, which had defied the skill
of his family doctor for years. He now swears by
Blank s patent sheep-dip. We “ disremember ”
the name of the complaint.
A Voice from the People,
THE GREATEST CURATIVE SUCCESS OF
THE AGE.
■"VT O medicine introduced to the public has ever
-U ’ met with the success accorded to bell’s
bitters. It stands to-day the best known cura-
tive article in the world. Its marvellous renown
is not due to the advertising it has received. It
is famous by reason of its inherent virtues. It
does all that is claimed for it. It is the most
powerful, speedy and effective agent known for
the building up of debilitated systems and general
family medicine.
Ophir, N.S.W., Dee. 9th, 1886.
Bell’s Bitte r s Manufacturing Co. —Gentlemen
I have been a sufferer for seventeen years from
the effect of a cold I contracted while at work
under ground. I have tried almost everything, I
have also been to several doctors and have not re-
ceived any benefit, at times I am able to work for
a few weeks then get bad and for as many months
am confined to the house. I got a bottle of your
Bitters last week from Orange, and took it within
a week, for every time the cough was trouble-
some I took a httle, and I am glad to say I am
greatly improved, for I am able to do a little
mining since.
Ed. McConnell.
Ophir Diggings, via. Orange, N.S.W.
Bell’s Bitters has been before the public but
a few months, yet the remarkable success which has
attended its use in the many hospitals and asylums
where it has been tested, has resulted in its being
placed on the list of regular supplies needed for
the daily use of the institution.
.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AOBNTS FOR
NBtW SOUTH WALKS AND OUHKNSLAND.
The Argus will, it is said, drop to a penny
after July 1. The horse has been stolen, and now
they lock the stable-door.
“It must be nervousness, doctor. There
is nothing broken in me, but I am losing my
memory. Why, look here, I found in my wife’s
chiffonniere a bundle of love-letters, and I don’t
remember at all having written them.”
i London Charity Organisation Society
has published its balance-sheet, or rather some-
body has sneaked the balance-sheet and given it to
the press. It shows that in one year £11,280 7s
0d was spent in charity, £465 15s. 4d. being given
to the poor and the rest—nearly £ll,OOO-going
m office expenses and salaries. This is another of
the pillars of Britain s greatness.
Purvcs, Q. C., President of the Australian
.Natives Association, &c., was walking along a
Melbourne street the other day, when a digger
ranged up alongside him, and addressed him with-
out the intervention of a solicitor, thereby shatter-
lng the etiquette of the profession into small bits,
and knocking the pieces about. “You’ve been
pinted out to me, he began apologetically, and
Purves made a mental note that he would have
the gore of the man who took the liberty of point-
ing him out to “anybody; “Ain’t your name
The lawyer admitted that it was.
Well, that s all right then,” said the digger with
a great sigh of relief ; “You see, I’ve got a splen-
did claim at Rushworth, and there’s a lawsuit
coming on, and I want to know how much you
would take to come up and defend the case?”
Tp come up to Rushworth ?” asked Purves softly.
Yes : .H m ! Rushworth ? That’s near Port
Darwin, isn’t it?” “Oh, Lord, no! It’s just
beside Sandhurst. It’s quite near. ” “Oh! And
you want me to come up to Rushworth?” “Of
course. How much’ll you take?” Well I’ll
d° jt for —— Oh, look here, I’ll tell you what I’ll
do. 11l take the mine.” Then the digger-man
Words of Warning and Comfort.
“ If you are suffering- from poor health or
1 'anguishing on a bed of sickness, take cheer,
* if you are simply ailing, or if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited,
‘ without clearly know-
‘ing why, Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters
will surely cure you.”
If you are a minister, and
have overtaxed yourself with your
pastoral duties, or a mother worn out
with care and work, or a man of business or
labor, weakened by the strain of your everyday du-
ties, or a man of letters toiling over your midnight
work, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters will
most surely strengthen you.
If you are suffering from over-eating or drink-
ing, an> indiscretion or dissipation, oz* are young-
and growing too fast, as is often the case,
“ °r if you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the deek, anywhere, and feel
‘ that youz- system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ' n B’> or stimulating, without intoxieat-
‘ mg, if you are old,
‘ blood thin and impure, pulse
‘feeble, nerves unsteady, faculties
‘ waning, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters is what
you need to give you new life, health, and vigor.”
If you are costive, or dyspeptic, or suffer-
ing from any other of the numerous dis-
eases of the stomach or bowels, it is your
own fault if you remain ill. If you are wasting
away with any form of kidney disease, stop
tempting death this moment, and turn for
a—cure to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
If jou are sick with that teri-ible sickness Xer-
vousness, you will find a “Balm in Gilead” in Dr
Soule s American Hop Bitters.
—lf you are a frequenter, or a resident of,
a miasmatic district, barricade your system against
-the scourge of all countries, Malaria, Epidemic,
—Bilious and Intermittent Fevers by the
use of Dr. .Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow skin, bad breath
Dr. Soule s American Hop Bitters will give you fair skin
rich blood, the sweetest breath and health. £5OO will be
paid for a case that they will not cure or help.
A Lady’s Wish.
“ Oh, how I do wish my skin was as clear and soft as
yours, said a lady to her friend. “ You can easily make
ladv’ answered the fnend - “How?” inquired the first
“ ®- y Dl ;- So “ l ®’, s American Hop Bitters that makes
pure, rich blood, and blooming health. It did it forme
as you observe.”
ifcr None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS PREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
Business Announcements.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
Wi REHOUSEMEN,
CABINETM A KERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
IIULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.-SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH. EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CH 'IRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
I ELF -A DJ USTING HAMMOCK
Patented,
CHAIR,
r*
*
This chair adjusts itself ta any position, Loin
sitting to reclining and rice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can bo obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits pe fectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. P, ice, wi'h Stand,
110 s. ; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. (id. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
D
lull
WALNUT FA L L
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving port ble triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart"
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when T equired. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Lib ary
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
□ 13
Drawing room cabi.
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
LARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the
Most Celebrated Makers.
A
USTRIAN BENT.
WOOD FURNITURE,
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB
XHASI CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
room?. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
CHAIR and COUCH, for
k-7 invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
-1 tul—-a specially. Newton & Lamb.
R
EDS TEA DS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Nbwton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make r also, Spiral Spring'.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. - Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d ; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27?. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.-
Chests of Drawers, from 40'.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
b ards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s 6d •
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
jy EWT O N AN D LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.


Keferee.
The Sydney police “ran in” a “rat
‘ consultation ” last week, but the big consulta-
tions still pursue their golden career.
« * ♦
Messrs. Frank Hill and “Ted” Lee, lie
dangerously ill in Sydney and Melbourne re-
spectively.
Frdhi flie IS; .M, ,
H E ft AA'D ’ S .. Spotting
cpluuiin : “The Queen,
(tespjfe, her weak hearty
can gallop as fast as you
can clap your hands
when she chooses, and is
a dangerous lady to take
liberties with.”
* * *
During a recent dis-
cussion on cash betting,
a legal luminary said:
“In legislating on the
subject of ready-money
betting you have to con-
sider .whether a man is
IlioiF Hhclfto steal money
in order tobliable hHfi ,tb
bet, or in order that lib
may pay up after he has
lost. ” There may be some
excuse for a man who an-
nexes a few pounds in
order to back a double
like Cranbrook and Gar-
iy on, but the man who
would stoop to steal in
order to settle up when
he had lost, deserves, the
heaviest sentence that
even a N.S.W. judge
could think of.
. * •
kbeiduUn jifcon papers
State. that Trickett. is hi
the best of health—“
training steadily, and
expects to come to the
}X>st at 13st. He is now
last., and in the best of
spirits. Let us see. _ Last
time we heard of Trickett
he was 19st. or some-
thing. We suspect he’ll
have trouble in getting
down from 15st. to 13st.
He will have to get a
Fitzroy River alligator
to eat a bit off him.
* * *
Tom Hales, Austra-
lia’s premier jockey, has
a sister who is unsur-
passed as a horsewoman
in South Australia.
Hales himself is a splen-
did stockman, and gra-
duated on a cattle-station
in the wild interior of
Western Australia.
•
Jack Burke, the
American box—we mean
showman, tells the'Mel-
bourne people lie was sur-
prised to hear his match
with Foley was “off.
Before leaving Sydney he
told the “beaks” it was
decided some time since
not to go on with the
match. How is this,
John? '
A. Mackenzie, for the "V eronas, made I1A
on Saturday last, against the Marrickville Club.
Mackenzie has made his century for the past
three consecutive Saturday afternoons.
. * *
Pet Girl and her jock, Dunhey, between
them won three races at the “Oxborough (old-
time pronunciation) meeting.
* * *
A match has been arranged between
Slavin, the Australian boxer, and Laing, the half-
caste Maori, for £200, to come off at Wanganui,
X.Z., on April 25. Laing should about win,
fudging from the workmanlike manner in which
he polished off Dick Matthews, the Yankee.
. • •
At a reunion of the Randwick Football
Club on Thursday night, J. B. Buchanan, the
Auckland heavy-weight lifter, raised from the
shoulder with one hand a 1531b. dumb-bell. Some
time since Harry Cansdell sweated up 1441b.
* * *
j, W. Johnson, for the second time, won
the swimming championship of Balmain at the
local Club’s sports on Saturday. The best bit ot
sport was not on the programme. The band-
stand carried away, and threw three of the per-
formers into the water some 20ft. below'.
* *
Spofibrth says he is bowling in better form
than ever, but he will not be missed from the Sixth
■ Eleven all the same. Spoff. no longer frightens
the Britishers. He can never be a “demon
bowler any more.
* * *
Connor and Cannon wrestled at Melbourne
Royal last Saturday afternoon for a nominal stake
of £300. Considering the amount at issue (?) it.
was very distressing to think that the referee made
a mistake in awarding the first fall to Connor. He
secured the second fall very shortly afterwards,
from which we infer that the wrestle was more
genuine than the stake money. Anyway, both
men had taken the trouble to get themselves m
fine condition. We suppose Cannon will now be
“dissatisfied” (which he is justified in being), and
the pair will roll about the carpet once more if
there is any prospect of a gate.
The ° swells ” who always look forward to
nfaking a cool hundred by backing the favourite
for the Oxford and Cambridge boat race, were not
disappointed this year. Cambridge started at 3
to 1 on, and won as they liked. It is the opinion
of amateur touts which regulates the market on
this annual e-tent, for the professional oarsmen
always endeavour to’ detect hidden excellencies
about the “ grip ” or “ swing,” or “ staying power’
of the inferior crew a peculiar feature of the
trade. William Beach probably thinks that Peter
Kemp is a better man than Hanlan.
• » *
Australians will now have an opportunity
of seeing the American national game, as played
by the crack American Baseball Clubs. The
teams timed to arrive in September are
picked from the best clubs in the States. Some
idea of the hold the game has in Yankeeland may
be judged from the fact that before M. Kelly, one
of the visiting team, could obtain his release from
the Chicago Club, the Boston Baseball Club
Association bad to pay £2OOO.
*• • •
The M.C.C. paid Mr. W. W. Read £1137
10s (retaining fee and expenses of self and wife)
for his valuable “amateur” services. They did
this in order to discourage vulgar “ gate-money
A N.S.W. PARLIAMENTARY EPISODE.
[FROM OUR OWN HANSARD.]
“Here the comic member for Mudgee crossed over to the Opposition side of the House, feeling, as he afterwards remarked.
‘Like an orphan bandicoot on a burnt ridge.
and professional cricket,” as engineered by Lily-
white and Co., doncherknow. And nobody is very
orieved to bear that the M.C.C. has dropped some-
thing like £4000 by their visiting English eleven,
which reminds us that if four thou, will cover their
loss, then Lilywhite can't be so very much out of
pocket after all. He did much better business
than the M.C.C. throughout.
* * *
AIR FROM “IOLANTHE."
Burke and Larry,
Wherefore tarry— '
Wherefore tarry, Larry and Burke .'
Do some fighting,
’Stead of skiting—
’Stead of skiting, get to work.
Oh-o-o-o!
Sure, you’re rum ’uns,
If a summons
Stops the battle you desire;
Burke and Larry,
Wherefore tarry ?
Real business we require,
We require,
We re-quire.
Tommy rotten,
Best forgotten—,
Best forgotten was your show.
When you fumbled,
Dodged and tumbled
Down, but hardly struck a blew,
Oh-o-o-o !
Men who “parted,"
Broken-hearted-
Broken-hearted left that ‘draw.
Now, unwilling
To be spilling .
Blood, you crawl behind the law,
’Hind the law,
’Hind the law.
1)r Alfred Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Great
Britain and by the Medical Board of N.S. W ales. Specialist
in diseases of the kidneys, bladder, skin, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases
a special study through life, and he has had the very
great practical” advantages of a large private as well as
hospital practice not only in Great Britain and America,
but the Continent of Europe, Consultations either per-
sonally or by letter. Eldon House, Thillip-strcet, near
King-street, Sydney. -
“ \i-BTR\m.v's” Monster Consultations. Sydney Cup, ,
run April 2nd, 3000 subscribers at £l. First horse, £looo ;
Second, £6OO ; Third, £3OO ; Starters, £3OO ; Non-starters,
£3OO ; divided amongst them. The Australian dockey
rinh Plate run April 7th, 3000 subs., at 10s. each. Inst
horse, £7OO ; Second, £-200 ; 'Third, £lOO ; Starters, £150;
Non-starters, £l5O ; divided amongst them One hundred
cash prizes of £2 each., Also Queen s Birthday Cup, run
Mav 24th,. 3000. Subscribers are requested to apply early,
and enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for reply
and'result. Address, “Australia,” care of Mr. H.
TCdveen. -victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Ofhcc,
George-strcet, Sydney, N'.S.W.
A Tale of Chivalry.
Descriptive of an Episode in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly.
“ How well the Fletcher kept the floor
In the brave old days of yore.”
Oh, listen all ye people, while a tale of blood I tell,
Of how two noble champions fought, and how a
champion fell.
They fell in with each other at a fiery slanging
tout,
And after having fallen in they instantly fell out.
Now, Haynes he was a mighty man, an orator
was he, -
And when he sharpened up his axe the “ Ouse ”
adjourned to tea ;
And Fletcher was a quiet man, not tall, or even
stout, . . , , TT
Newcastle miners put lum m and Haynes he put
him out.
Now, Mudgee Haynes is speaking, and ’mid empty
benches grim
The Fletcher sits with steely eye and fixes it on
him
Who fiercely doth denounce a man as neither
straight nor true,
And when the Fletcher -calleth Aame, lie
answers, ‘‘ It. was you !
Then up arose the Fletcher, and his eagle eye did
glare, .
As, striding from his scat, he faced the possum in
his lair,
And members hurried in and stood like sheep
struck dumb with fear,
As Fletcher took a handful of his foeman s ample
ear.
Now Haynes the mighty cowereth, and Haynes
the great doth quail, , , ,.
And falling down upon his knees hechngeth to the ;
And' Fletcher's friends break silence with one wild
triumphant roar,
As seizing Haynes by neck and ear he gallops to
the door !
Now skin and hair is whirled around, the place is
full of fluff, „
Betokening the damage done to collar and to cun,
And members raise a warwhoop like to break the
window-panes. .. ,,
As they shout “Hurrah for lletcher, or they
howl “ Hooroo for Haynes !
But, oh, alas! also alafck, likewise oh, whiras-
tuTOO *
That interfering hands should stop such deeds of
derringdo. . . . .
But so it was, the Sergeant came—m pity shed a
tear— , .
And gently biffed the Fletcher out upon his little
ear !
COCKNEY.
The Australian Natives' Association.
If the Australian Natives’ Association be simply
what its enemies allege it is—-viz., a crowd of high
toned young men with haughty social and politi
cal convictions, who endeavour to givetheir society
an air of magnificence and distinction by differen-
tiating it from the vulgar ordinary clubs by as
sonorous and reverberant title—we should be
amongst those who would be first to condemn it
as unmeaning and ridiculously assumptive in its-
claims upon public attention. By papers which
coquette with Imperialists on the one hand and
Republicans on the other it is insinuated that the
Australian Natives’ Association is only a locally-
raised mob of Tories. That the young Australian
is at heart an Englishman. That he looks across
the water and measures everything under his eye
and within the range of his experience by a-gauge
borrowed from Britain. A Sydney daily in-
sinuates that the Association is a society bound
together by the ties of Imperialism, social gran-
deeism, and such blue-blood as can be locally
brewed, and asks in tones of indignation why in
the name of all that is reasonably is there an Aus*
tralian Natives’ Associa-
tion, and, being one, what
is it for? “Historicus,”
in a letter to the enquir*
ing print, remarks :
“ What we mean by native
is the product of our soil
and its institutions, our sys-
tem of education and code
of morality and religion
ideals. We present an idea
Australian thus moulded as
the unit of our organisation.'’
The Australian Natives’
Association has once or
twice done things which
smack of the character
of toadyism, but this
seems to have happened
before the movement had
grown to its present
dimensions, and was per-
formed, we-are told, only
by a small though busy
section of the society s
members. In a recent
report of the meeting held
in Melbourne —published
in the Argus— the writer,
we are glad to be able to
note, bitterly regrets the
anti-imperial and anti-
Royal tone of some of
the speakers, and inti-
mates pretty plainly that
he considers it a very
dangerous and repub-
lican movement. The
cause of the Sydney
D.T.’s annoyance at Mr.
Purves’ proposed visit is
simply this :
“ It should be called not
the Australian Natives’ Asso-
ciation, but the Victorian
N atives’ Association.”
In other words, any
movement which origin-
ates in Melbourne is, in
the eyes of the D.T. and
the shoddy-ring Demo-
cracy, no good. The Aus-
tralian Natives’ Associa-
tion, however, has taken
up work which the Eng-
lishmen of New South
Wales have proved
themselves unable to per-
form. The D.T.’s Parkes
is a G.C.M.G. He
manipulated the Naval
Subsidy Bill through
I he N.S.W. Parliament in the interests of Im*
erialism, and his recent distinction looked sus-
iciously like the reward for his treachery to his
lleged country. Only the other day, in a speech
t Junee, Parlies “earnestly urged” the fostering
f the Imperial spirit, with a view to the founding
i Australia of “ a great Christian Empire .” The
).T. advocates Republicanism as far as its adver-
ising' interests will permit ; its fetich, its only
tatesman,” wants to be Henry IX., Emperor of
Australasia and its British dependencies. The
elegated Englishmen in the disguise of Austra-
ians, who were sent “home” to the Imperial
Conference, were all bought by gew-gaws;. We do
iot say there is any special merit in being
orn on Australian soil, but —and herein is the
>eculiar advantage of being a native —the man
jorn out of England is not quite so likely to sell
lis country for considerations of an English
character. Neither are his views of social distinc-
ion, Imperialistic patronage, and military rule,
ikely to be inflected by grovel chanted over Ins
iradle in the days of his babyhood. The D.T.,
tnd such papers, are the worst enemies of a
Jnited Australia. They desire all reform to begin
it Sydney. They regard Sydney as the hub of
he Australian world. If there is to lie a United
Australia Sydney must be its capital and New
South Wales its dominion State, otherwise it can
never be permitted. And this miserable parochial-
sm is the very thing to defeat the ends for
which they pretend to strive. A thing is
:io broader because it has not a V ictorian but
i New South Wales basis, and Sir John
Robertson is not the only foe to colonial federation.
The papers which make a show of striving for its
attainment, provided their own particular towns
and villages are allowed to lead, are its worst and
most insidious obstructors. On one point we do
loin with the D.T. in asking the Australian Na-
tives r Association for an explanation of its objects.
In its constitution it announces that it is not a
political society, yet it attempts to discuss ± ©der-
ation, New Guinea, the New Hebndies, New
Caledonia, the Recidiviste Question, and National
Defence.” If not political, what is it . Does it
mean that it is not parochially political .
Everybody should use Pencil’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Kohler Flour. 1“ » thc greatest success of the
age.


Business Announcements;
II McLRAJN BROS., RIQG A CO.,
I IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
512
X
o
o
REG?
<fc
H
S
,
SPECIALITIES:
' Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Aibo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER'S. JEANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &c,
COMPOUND
ESSENCE OF DIIDELIOI
18 A CERTAIN CURE FOR
MijtJlin, Liver nil Kiiisj Dimitri,
Ij. testimonials wrapped with each bottle and yon will be convinced.
ONE’S LIVER PILLS act aa a valuable aperient and tonic In conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
•OflgTrYKm,, 10:
«ES ESSENCE OF DANDELION, sa. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, la. pM
Box. Of all Chemiata.
S
°leaal
—:o:
o Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
Qiticura
m
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
ffEOM
ill
Soroful* on Neck«
to SCROFULA
Itffi Humiliating Erup-
8or«* and Burning Skin Torture*,
!?«c A^hnnh, 1 t!,V “? d every »pecie* of Itching,
* Scrofulous, and Syphi-
, Blood - Skin, and Scalp, with
infancy to old age, are cured by
the Blood Purifier,
* Skin Ouf^^PE?- 4 and Cuticura Soap, the
and Beautifiers, externally.
IjSiit
x4
and
MS" • Barbed Skin Disease*,
bo}? ifiles ®’ rt a^ oceri8 ’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Diseases,
4*5* Delicate iTritatTons'
peculiar
warm bath
Uily I? 01 CUTICURA RESOLVENT,
an I'telling Diseases of the Skin and
* ot ner means absolutely fail.
AS
!°tv*^red C pw Bopular Work on the Skin,
Ad gri a^ e *> J* wrapped about the Re-
J? Qr n to’ y? « e hundred Testimonials, sol-
b* Rtorv • r°^ e tlle British Consul, which
from * bave been a terrible sufferer
?Svm tlo bwi ) ; 8ea ? e8 of the Skin and Blood;
i®Un«. 1 8 %urin» h 8 llm Public places by reason
1° i-eu’.havfc kurnorg; have had the best phy
h* Until P ent hundreds of dollars, and goi
i'htoo v « c Ul ia U8ed tlle Cuticura Remedies,
, a Rnifl
v e cn^ used tbe Cuticura Remedies
*°«k # a cCV n V nd i eft m y 8kin and blooc
Row tn ,, *• Bend for our sixty-four pagi
u,ure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
t 0^ tI8TBAIi ak CONBISNEEB,
‘ * Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hencs
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Guru (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap., an exquisite Skin Beautifiei
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and Hew
Zealand. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fl.jt): Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
inu io/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by tkx
Pott*'*- ’Taf* Chemical Co., Kostern, U.B.A.
E t>At
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
HDINBURQ-8..
*. OUNYNGHAMK. Bond- street, Sydney.
In bulk
and case,
Best BEBR
In the Market,
L-
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
Business Announcements.,
M
ONUM E X T I
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request'
JT. CVHNIHftHAM,
Mabgabet-stbeet, Wynyard-squabe, Sydney
k WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for theyjhave done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring' about all that is required. No
feihale should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a rernedv for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing,'Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing,. &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the abov e
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cougii Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. lf”not on
they are a forgery. ILr 1 “
Prepared only, and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ljd. ana 2S. fid. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Robert butcher & c m o.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to Jj
592 a GEORGE STREET ~' V” “D
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out r *of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGF STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF All THE.
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
riMIE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Jj_ Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... 500,000
'the Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America ;ind
Oanaau, '■an offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion. Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit, M SBi
Drafts issued and Billsct llected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. ■ V1IM ;
N. F. < i IBLI> Acting Manager. ,
MASON BKOTHERS,
Ss
■■
LIMITED,
203 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydiey, ww
Have always In STOCK,! for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Business Announcements.
GruinOss’4 Extra Stout.
FIRST
iXj H? llilii St
mm\ . V \l Krl 5 »
i.!«
r,.<jils
W'^HMuinmxU
’• .a ~ V.
v -''lit
m,
!n}l? l !^.j^i
asii'f*
mj}
S9HK
a .!.•"
Bass’s Pale Ale.
sole Purveyors to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speeial Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W, BalcMn, Johnson & Co,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
ofjSydrw^
JENOLAN MOUNTAINS*
Si&GEMRCB ST «mw HwmsSTaCP.a
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D*'RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
i:id is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR.RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MUXS?
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ff
MA. BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
AS
AND ALL CHEST A ERECTIONS
IPAUCO ONLY BY <&,
MAS iNSHAM.-r
c
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Syfhn JEratii Water Co.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfeot Purity Guaranteed.
AFTM •«•*!
Copyrighted. ;
•EFCn*
Copyright**.
Moustache and Whiskers.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,
!a«d will do it on either bald
'head or bare face • Force*
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails, 20,OOO
„ „ _ _ young men already wear full _ _
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkte. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 6 d. each. 8 for 3». 64. post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation . Address, Vmk Aouglas, Sole Agent,
Box T30, O. r.O.. Sydney , N.S. W.
8.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Ma
296 PJTT STREET.
as .
«unur
<*nnrOHMUKa*» '<*•- u
A., &f
0
i
8
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thkis Gold Mutuals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA 1884
for pre-eminent excellence or quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE I YLANG YLANG
STEPHANOTIS I OP AP AN AX
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled for til (Sir delightful and lasting odour
Atkinson 'f celebrated
EAU DB COLOGNE.
Unsurpassed for its strength and delightful
fragrance. It is far superior to the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
Of all Vcalert, and o' the Manufacturert—
1. A B. ATKINSON,
24, Oto Bonn Strxxt, Londoh
Trade Mark—“White Rose” on“ Golden
Lyre.”


m
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by jeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists’
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
A
m
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT AND IMPORTER.
Tie Famous AS Case of ASSORTED WINES and SPIRITS
CONTAINS
3 Pottles BRANDY
1 Bottle J ■ MAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
Total ... 18.
Securely Packed and Delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PEIS OF WALES’ HOTEL, corner of Oeorgo and Sipps Streets.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George Street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, ERIE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI, VICI.
For Artistic Posing and Effective Me
combining softness and brilliancy? .
I m, m i m jg. Photographs of w j_J|
IiHARLEMQNT >fti w
[ROYAL ARCADE, |i
STANDj PRE-EMINENTLY ALON®^
-^LTaG*
rjIHE WONDER OF
COLEMANS AND SONS’ _
Pure Volatile Eucalypte Oil^
the only Genuine Eucalypte i Q |
GOLD MEDAL ADELAIDE JUBU^®-|
EXHIBITION.
, C 0»
All those suffering from Asthma, WjJ
sumption, Rheumatism, Neuralgi“>
Kidney and Gravel Complaints, n roW‘>
OIL a SAFE CURE. Our VICTOR K
stands without a rival for all Skm t g saoQr
Bad Eyes. We have more bona-flae , t 0 m
than any medicine in the world. 0 £ oiL
address on receipt of stamps. Vtiw j fl
and 2s. 6d J Ointment, 2s. and 3s 60.
W n QMTTtT I*7 flnnk- at.. Moore
W. C. SMITH, 17, Cook-st., Moore
T
H E SCIENCE
By W. Knox Parker, o 0 p ai
A Book for Young and Old ell 'qq pr#|S,
bound in cloth, and contains ove pgsci'
tions. Price, post paid, 35.. 13^
sample free. Those suffering rroit on<#
haustion and Diseases should send » g.
valuable work. Address : Doctor • -
Post Office Chambers, corner Bourk
streets, Melbourne, Vic.
A Blessing in every
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS.
There is not a country in the L#ve>jjig
the healing virtues of these grand medic se,°‘ f
recognised by thousands of sufferers. iS»?VI
ailments of humanity their beneficent a a pi
cognised. Fullest directions are suppa® W
every, disease IF YOU SUFFER., , on.
factored only at 78 New Oxfobd-ST., _ Qxe g » y(J
chasers should look to the Label on the 011( ioD, 1
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street,
spurious.
GrTZ ZE-A-T S-A-X
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Startling reductions for a limited period, for Cash only, in consequence of the Premises having been sold and great alterations pending.
COUNTRY ORDERS, WITH REMITTANCES, WILL RSCEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
WILLIAM BULLARD. 342 GEORGE STREET
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Copper smithing, Blacksmithing. Plumbing,
Gasfittiog, 'l ank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
' BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan fowls, Gas Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT STREET,
‘Sydney.
B
REWERSr&ndAErased Water m»«muoi'} «uu 7 ivfafl r* v \My
making. Dr. Griefendorff’s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. GriefendorfFs Boheii y
n • — js j OP ~ T\ ,1 „ W „ „ IV- rim' rl A-n-flPa Huinino WlT»A UtlC£l
ater Makers’ Machinery and Appliances. Bocks on P ra^fW^
Dr. Grief endorfFs Dandelion Btters. D•. GriefendorfFs Quinine Wine. Utica »u“ Jimp®
Bitter*. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and o her sorts. Lignozot yliPjjj#
and casks. Boakes’ Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, - tI0 p
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Rec pes supplied for making Dandelion
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Ale,
WINE
Publishing Office of
H THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER,
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also , „
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE.
pi 1 '
ro
••
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TIN& OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY-
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman, j
RQCKHAMPTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
,
MONKS PILE MIXTURE,
2s. Od. pei’ Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture;
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
jmzojstjes: 3 ©
NEURALGIA MIXTURE
2s. Cd. per Bottle.
Sole a gouts -
Mathey, Nathan & Co,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
it L'ittle Coer, ins Street East, Melbourne.
ID Hr? _ IR,
vj-
L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S. Ij
registered in Great Britain,’and - S< C >, u i se/Jtrj
late surgeon to EEvR.H. Princess
Resident Medical Officer to the if 1 all >,
London, specialist for the treatmen , (i i _
and Heart Diseases, &e. )Ui rh5 , , f e« 6
' Consultation by lptter or i )el o 1 jgir® Ci
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8, .VlpM
Hunter-street Sydney.
D »• ' a H A^: M
-end for large Hound r OQK- piel 11
lo- all Nervous Pi.eases ; price, 0 stL e f!
age, tid. in stamps. Consul* atmi . v j#
and the Doctor will tell you at o*L
case is curable.or not, address'"
DR. RICH A
7 SPRING STREET,
TATTERHALD’S
SVP
MUNSTER li
UNSULffl
m iti?
Are open upon all the Prir.cipj--
iMM “ m
throughout the Year. For
full
(O
t>f|
ot George auams. rau,ersau s
sons making applications for Tic g at“ jopl'
to register their ,etters to east j. eJ jv pv
enclose two addressed staiui d 1 "^/
also
for reply and the other for re
Commercial Hotel, Gymp ie
THE above is one of ihe m
Squatting Hotels in 111 co* ,/*
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. yi™ -
Mrs. COMPJ G3S q
T. P. WIESENER,
"NDffiED, the Industrial Hive at 334 GEO RGB
life and uaaffaobed by Old World Competition.
Watchmaker, Jeweller, Optician and Scientific Instrument -
The Only Place in the Colony where Goods in this line are Manufactured by Steam! ( -„d & C }#' /
STREEP has sprang into existence and grown to its present dimension and importance, “at the edge of the forest," j/V
The Main Support has been a favourable Pubiio • Jplnloa, which has grown with the establishment. Ihe Foundati
njanufacture
Sydney
X-
IF 1 .
Field Classes, Levels, Theodolites, etc. Special Goods made to Order at the Import Depot and Steam Factory of
G- B O EG E STESH X , S ~ST TD 1ST
w i ns a 3sr b b
3 3 <4
IE3 ~5T -
