

The Bulletin
yol. 9—No 463.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1888.
Price, Bd.
George Coppin, Comedian and Legislator.
“I HOPE I DON’T INTRUDE!"


The Bulletin
ẁ
Notice.
OUR CHRISTMAS ISSUE.
ẅ
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1888.
The Mongolian Overflow.
Among the neglected and unnoticed items of
cable intelligence published within the last
few weeks in the Australian daily Press, there
appeared a brief message in which it was an-
nounced that the Russian Government had
at last taken alarm at the ceaseless influx of
Chinese emigration into Siberia, and that
decisive measures were being taken to drive
the obtrusive Mongol back within his own
borders. The statement at the moment at-
tracted little attention, and within 24 hours
it was dead and forgotten. The leaders of
public opinion were busy at the moment
publishing ponderous columns of details
about the squabbles of the doctors who at-
tended upon Kaiser Frederick in his last
illness, and were wrestling with diagrams of
different parts of that unhappy monarch’s
Inside ; the cables were occupied with valu-
able information about the Prince of Wales,
who was understood to be pursuing the
harassed bear amid the snows of the Austrian
Alps ; and the European correspondents who
furnish literary nourishment for the Austra-
lian intellect were engaged, as usual, on
drivelling obituaries concerning the latter
end of some venerable flunkey, who had
been Gold-Stick-In-Waiting for 80 years, and
had doddered for three-quarters of a century
among the half-dressed seraphim of the ballet.
The stream of dreary imbecility which is
daily issued under the misleading title of
foreign “intelligence ” was, as usual, in full
flow, and amid the popular excitement
aroueed by elaborate reports of the rheu-
matism of fifth-rate monarchs in low circum-
stances no one cared to know that Asia was
once more threatening to move down on
Europe as she did in the prehistoric days of
the Scythians and the Huns. The social and:
political life of the present decade is a thing
cf shreds and trifles, and the men who make
history—as history is understood by the
daily Press—are busy laying foundation-
stones, and opening flower-shows, and other-
wise endeavouring to be a grandmother to
the human race, and while they revolve in
their petty orbits the tired old earth is
getting ready for another convulsion.
* * •
Periodically, ever since the days when
historians first carved their early records in
hieroglyphics on the huge monuments which
still strew the land of the old Assyrians and
Hittites, the Mongols have been accustomed
to overflow into the West, carrying terror
and destruction along with them. Even
before the days of Moses, Egypt was over-
run by a barbarous horde that descended
like a rolling torrent from the Eastern
deserts and trod the civilisation of the
Pharaohs into ruins, and then vanished
away as mysteriously as they came,
leaving behind them only a hideous
memory of slaughter and desolation. They
bequeathed no records to state whence they
came or whither they departed, but history
and legend assume them to have been a
fragment of the great mixed race—half
Mongol, half Tartar—which raged and
seethed in the cauldron of Central Asia and ,
every now and then overflowed in a torrent
whose waves were blood and whose foam was
human lives. A thousand years later the
mysterious visitation rushed down a second
time upon the shores of the Great Sea, and
the warriors of Josiah strained their eyes
from the walls of Jerusalem as they watched
the countless host of the yellow men sweep-
ing contemptuously past their feeble little
city on their way to the Nile, and the priests
burnt incense and offered up sacrifices in the
Temple through a weary vigil of six-aud-
twenfy years, and Implored the forgotten
God cf Judah to save their land from the
unknown terror which had crushed the sur-
rounding nations In the dust. The wave
spent itself at last, however, and the tide of
armed men rolled back again to the steppes ;
and then the Eastern monster lay compara-
tively quiet for another 1000 years, till the
Huns began to be heard of on the outskirts
of the Roman empire, and the hated features
of the Mongol race raised a new alarm In
Europe. The squat, misshapen dwarfs who
poured in myriads round the coasts of the
Caspian aroused first derision and then
alarm. The Oatragoths rose in arms to
oppose them and were almost wiped
off the roll of nations ; Goths and
Bulgars, Greeks, and Italians went down
like chaff before the Asiatic hordes ; the
tribes of the Lower Danube were rolled
back into Germany, and the shattered frag-
ments of Germany were swept across the
Rhine into France, and, finally, the Franks
stood at bay with the Hunnish army in
front and the sea behind, and for the
moment It seemed as if the nations of
Western Europe were destined to find a
common grave in the Atlantic, The des-
perate valour of the Franks turned the tide
at last, but it was only resolved by a hair’s-
breadth that a branch of the Mongolian race
was not to rule by the Seine and the
Thames, and even when their strange, harsh,
monosyllablic tongue had been forgotten, and
the last of the Asiatic spears had drifted
back beyond the Vistula and the Danube,
Europe continued to watch In terror for the
second coming of the strangers who had
turned that continent into a smoking ruin,
and left its fallen cities as silent monuments
to the millions of the dead.
• • •
But the Huns disappeared and the Huh-
nish Empire fell into fragments, and for 800
years more Europe remained undisturbed by
the tribes of the far East. Asia had sent
out such Innumerable hordes into the West
and had shed the blood of her sons in so
many battles that her turbulent tribes re-
quired rest, and until the advent of Jenghiz
Khan she busied herself with no more
schemes of conquest. Part of the great
Mongolian brotherhood eked out a precarious
existence as herdsmen on the steppes of
Tartary, and the remainder of that once
warlike race vegetated on the fertile lands
of China and forgot the traditions of their
fathers in the peaceful monotony of agricul-
ture and commerce. But at the beginning
of the thirteenth century came another
great awakening. All Tartary rolled
down upon China ; all China and Tartary
together rolled down upon Europe and
reduced two-thirds of that continent to the
rank of an Asiatic dependency, and the
civilised West awoke in frenzied panic with
a firm conviction that the days of the Huns
had returned, and that the banners of the
invading Mongols would ere long be visible
from the walls of Paris. But Jenghiz died
before his work was done, and the yellow
hordes who might otherwise have camped in
London and made Britain a province of
Asia, and handed down Mongolian manners
and customs and superstitions to the Eng-
lishmen of the present generation, retired
eastward once more. They left behind them
a strong Asiatic element In Russia, which has
never since been wholly eradicated, and to
this day more than half Europe is under the
dominion of a mixed race which owes its
Mongolian taint to the great inroad of six
centuries ago.
* * *
Two centuries later, the Western branch
of the Mongol nation was again traversing
the familiar road towards Europe, and for
the third time it seemed. that the high-born
ladies of France and England were about to
be sold in the slave-markets of Central
Asia, and that the Asiatic nomads would
presently obliterate European civilisation
and reduce the earth to primeval chaos. The
Christian world collapsed In terror before
the spectre of ruin which was looming up In
the East, and for a while it appeared as if the
whole civil system o! the Aryan race was
about to fall almost without making an effort
in its own defence. But the desperate
struggle maintained by Bajazet, “ the
Thunderbolt,” and his ally, Stephen of
Servia, gained a little breathing-time for the
paralysed nations of Christendom, and
Timour, like Jenghiz, died In the middle of
his conquests and left no adequate successor.
For the third time Europe was saved by an
accident from sinking to the rank of a mere
outlying province of the Mongol Empire;
and since then the dangers of Asiatic con-
quest have steadily receded, until the herit-
age of Shem has begun, in its turn, to fall a
prey to European adventurers, and the once
dreaded Mongol has descended in the social
scale till he is esteemed as the meanest of
the human species by those whose fathers tied
in hundreds at the sight of a solitary yellow
spearman, and abandoned their cities at the
first whisper of the Asiatic’s approach.
• ■
But Mongolia, after four hundred years of
rest, is waking to new activity, and the silent,
inert pressure of her myriads is again begin-
ning to be felt on the outlying borders of
the European states. The huge reserve ir of
yellow humanity is beginning to overflow
once more, and, in obedience to the un-
written law of history which has so often
carried her armies westward, the vanguard of
the new Invasion is showing itself on the
frozen steppes of Asiatic Russia. The time
is already within measurable distance when
sheer pressure of numbers will force the
Mongol race to seek for wider fields, and
the only outlet for her surplus millions is in
the West. India, Burmah, and Siam are
already densely populated ; the difficulties
experienced by a non-maribime people in
seaward emigration renders it impossible for
the nation to find any sufficient outlet in the
Islands of the Pacific ; and the only remain-
ing opportunity lies in a movement which
will attack Russia at her weakest point
and force the icy Colossus back upon
Europe. The resolution tf the Muscovite
Government to oppose the Chinese in-
vasion with the bayonets of her soldiers
will only increase the pressure upon the
frontiers of the empire and hasten the
ultimate catastrophe. For a few years, or a
few generations more the yellow men may
continue to increase and multiply within
their own borders; and then the Cfiiaeee
dominion will be eaten up by the multitude
of its own population, and absolute hunger
will force the Celestial hordes bo spread
themselves over the empty plains of Siberia,
and try conclusions with the autocrats of St.
Petersburg in a struggle for the ownership
of the earth. The raw material out of which
the armies of the coming crusade will be
formed is practically the same as that with
which Jenghiz and Timour achieved’ their
conquests, and the Mongol, alone among the
races of mankind appears to be immortal.
Other nations have lived their little span and
died and been buried, and have left no traces
except here and there a crumbling pyramid
or an undecipherable inscription, but the
Mongols, by whatever name they have been
known, date back beyond history and hold
out fair promise that they will live until
history Itself passes away. And signs are
not wanting that the hour of their supre-
macy is again approaching. 'The races of
Western Europe have had their day. France
has grown barren and already shows indis-
putable signs of national decay ; Spain and
Portugal are two ruined shadows slum-
bering among the wreckage of their former
greatness ; Italy is tottering beneath the
weight of the new-born dignity which her
degenerate sons are no longer able to sup-
port. Germany and Britain are alike eaten
up by the hunger after “ trade and the
empire of the warlike Ottom ans is a dying
idiot and hangs on the very verge of the
grave. The shadow of Russia is cast over
them all, and behind Russia lurks the
Nemesis which will yet overtake the Musco-
vite power—that national symbol of eternity,
the silent, undying, unconquerable Mongol.
The policy of China may be one of peace but
she cannot control her destiny. The road to
Europe is already beaten hard by the feet of
the countless Mongol armies which have
traversed it In the past, and over the same
road the Mongol myriads must overflow in
the future to spread fear and desolation
among the decaying nations whose weary
hands cannot hold much longer the sceptre
of the world’s supremacy.
Classics and Clerics.
The meek outsider is apt to find that the “damnable
iteration ” in New Zealand newspapers of the
phrase “ Our splendid system of education ” makes
him tired. Yet the Maorilanders are quarrelling
about their “splendid system” of (secondary)
education. The controversy thereon now proceed-
ing at Wellington is only one phase of the battle
raging throughout civilisation between progres-
sionists and stagnationists. Dr. Newman,
M.H.R., a medium-sized medico carrying more
brains than brawn to the square inch, recently
voiced the anti-rust party by demanding that the
curriculum of Wellington College should be modern-
ised. His contentions may be thus detailed :—-
The inutile generally must give precedence to the
useful; dead languages should be made subser-
vient to living physical sciences; everything
modern and practical should not, as now, be made
subsidiary to two so-called languages that no race
speaks and no one has spoken for centuries, save
priests and monks who use Greek and Latin as
beggars do argot—to hide their meaning from the
honest.
Heresy so sensible of course, sent the local
representatives of the thought of the middle ages,
the medicine and mystery men who fatten on the
obsolete, whooping upon the war path. Dr.
Walters, Rector of So. Patrick’s (R.C.) College,
took the opportunity t f his half-yearly prize dis-
tribution to wail the feeble, doddering, old wail
in praise of mental mildew and in disparagement
of the present, practical, and profitable. “We,”
he said, with unctuous upheaving of the eye
Pharisaical, “ We still pin our faith to the classics
—the standard authors of Greece and Rome—as
the basis of true education.” In other words this
astute cleric keeps his pupils groping in the
graves of a buried past and rattling the dry bones
of a depraved and rotten heathen mythology, not
suffers them to leave the ancient catacombs lest
the fresh air of a progressive day should blow npon
their faces—and awaken them,
* * *
‘ * Instruction, ” he continued, ‘ ‘ is not education,
and a high standard of culture (he pronounced it
“culchaw”) is only attained by a corresponding
expenditure of brain power, of patience, and of
self-control.” And to produce these Dr. Walters
would sharpen not the edges but the backs of the
intellects of the taught on the crumbling grind-
stones of flatulent fable and decomposed lie;
would teach self-control from the amours, com-
bats, and bestialities of pagan gods and goddesses ;
patience from the throau cuttings of ideal ancient
“heroes” and real blackguards, and for unadul-
terated morality would send boys to the Metamor-
phoses of Ovid and the Golden Ass of Apuleius !
* * •
By the gospel according to Walters the
physical sciences require no brain-power, no
patience, no self-control. The inventors of steam-
engine, steam-boat, telegraph, telephone, and
similar odds and ends that make life tolerable and
well-paid and well-fed rectors possible-having
seldom or never grubbed in those classical ceme-
teries to the corpses in which Dr. Walters
“pins’’the cerements of his own dying educa-
tional faith-brought neither brains, patience, nor
control to their tastes. Such virtues blossom only
in the neophytes whose mental soil has been freely
manured with the incestuous lasciviousness of
imaginary Greek or Latin deities. Classical lore
once acquired, mathematics, history, electricity,
and the rest come to the hobbledehoys of yt.
Patrick's by—a mere effort of faith.
• o «
Quoting John Mobley who had quoted
“ Rugby ” Arnold —admire the conjunction,
Infidel Morley, Protestant Arnold, and Catholic
Walters !—the Rector said: “Rather than see
the physical sciences assuming pre-eminence in
the schools he would in all seriousness prefer that
his sons (sic) should believe that the sun moved
round the earth.” Just so ! And had it not been
for physical science, that is exactly what we and
our sons would believe. Classicalism certainly
had nothing to do with the establishment in Chris-
tendom of the heliocentric theory. Right here
Dr. Walters may be asked how long it is since
his Church taught that the sun moves round the
earth; how long since that Church tortured
Galileo and fried Brdno for declaring that the
sun does not move round the earth, and what man
ever yet wrested from science a guerdon for our
common humanity and escaped the anathemas of
Dr. Walters’ Church and every other Church ?
• * *
Of course this rector and clerics generally pre-
fer dead classics to living sciences, but for the
precise opposite of the reasons he gave. Eccle-
siastics favour classical learning for the young
because it calls for little real brain-power in the
true acceptation of the term, and demands the
exercise of neither the perceptive nor reasoning
faculty, but simply memory in its most debased
and mechanical form, and a dull, plodding appli-
cation. Find a finished classicalist, and in the
vast majority of cases you have one who, outside
his speciality, is a fool in knowledge of everything
that constitutes the difference between the listless
monk of the 16th century and the alert, practical,
pushing, and progressive man of the 19th. Eccle-
siastics oppose the physical sciences because their
votaries must live, act, and think in the now,
and because from those sciences and the enquiry,
reason, and.thought their study engenders—for
the scientist take nothing on trust or faith—have
proceeded, and still proceed, the cruellest blows
to all sorts of priestly pretensions. But these
clerically-derided physical sciences have given us
all of freedom, all of knowledge, and all of inven-
tion that we have. The Latin tongue has ever
been used as an engine of enslavement and to conceal
knowledge, and all the dead tongues taught in the
schools have never made one blade of grass to
grow or raised one pound of steam—and never
will.
Modern Pharisees.
The modern religions of to-day occupy a strangely
anomalous position. While every other system
has been refined and corrected by the wisdom of
advancing ages, the creeds of ecclesiasticism alone
remain in the rude state in which they were
fashioned in barbarous times. Every other insti-
tution has been amended and perfected by the
clearer wisdom of our day ; the political ways
that suited our fathers have been radically altered
by succeeding generations : the law is gradually
being brought into harmony with the advanc'd
ideas of the times: business and social affairs are
daily evolving new facilities for the new demands
made by human advancement: evolution, prompted
by a higher civilisation, is observable in all things
save religion, and there the ancient fashions of
thought and method prevailing in the Dark Ages
have been embalmed and handed down as
mummies—soulless and lifeless, the eloquent
witnesses of the mental savagery of our progeni-
tors. The creeds of to-day were moulded by
men who believed that the earth was hat, and
that the sun revolved round it: by men who knew
nothing of blood-circulation or the thousand and
one other facts of science since revealed, and who
were as ignorant of geological truths as they were
of natural laws. And being thus ignorant they
were steeped to the eyes in prejudice and super-
stition. They believed most fervently in the ex-
istence of witches and other demoniacal beings,
and they countenanced such sacred burlesques as


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom houbb).
Directors i
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Ohaibman.
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq.; T. JONES, Esy.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Intebest on Deposits :
12 months ... ... ... 7 per cent,
6 6
3 i, ... ... ... 6 ~ ~
V. Rlafc«TT<s«* - -
the trial by ordeal, and the exorcising of evi
spirits. Ignorant, as they from the deficiencies
of their era, necessarily were, these men, the
founders of modern faith, have yet been
accounted wise enough to formulate a code of
doctrine which has never since then been materially
altered. To find what is orthodox doctrine the
modern cleric dives into the writings of mediaeval
theologians: to discover what ceremonies are
permissible in the Anglican Church at least,
recourse is had to the rubrics of Edward VI.
From the riper learning and more refined wisdom
of recent centuries the churches have profited
nothing. While all the rest of the world has been
moving onward, the religions of Christendom
have stood still. And as with doctrine so with
church custom. Monarchy has been virtually
superseded in the State, and Democracy rules
every secular organisation: but the churches
adhere still to a parody of monarchical govern-
ment. The parson or pastor aspires still to un-
restricted power, and rules his people with an
absolutism limited only by their rebellion. Even
in tire matter of modern refinement, the churches
refuse to keep step with the people. An expur-
gated Shakespeare is played in our theatres, but
indecent and obscene portions of the Bible are not
only retained in the text but are constantly read
to pained and disgusted audiences of men and
women by clergymen who are the instigators of
prosecutions aimed at the works of Bradlaugh
and Bksant.
• *
Under these circumstances it is not strange that
the churches should have lost their influence over
the people. The world went forward ; the sys-
tems of religion stood still. The people would
not remain in the ignorance with which the ecclesi-
astics chose to surround them : therefore, it has
happened that the people have got to know too
much for their religious teachers. The world is too
wise to pay a very reverent attention to doctrines
that held our forefathers in fearsome awe. This
is the reason of that contrast which is at all times
apt to puzzle the student of history. In the six-
teenth century we find English internal affairs
and foreign policy alike dominated by religious
influences. Sovereigns then stood in fear of the
prelates, and the lower classes were bound body
and soul to their spiritual teachers. Then the
clergy were the sole possessors of knowledge, and
almost the only exponents of science, while
people lived in the densest, deepest ignorance.
“ Church and State ” was then a full-meaning
phrase, for the Church practically ruled the
State. The Press had not then arisen, and
Science was in its infancy; therefor a the people be-
lieved everything their clerical teachers told them,
for they knew no better. But everyone of these
conditions is now reversed. The clergy to-day, apart
from knowledge of dogma, are not educated above
the masses of the middle classes ; the Press has
inculcated habits of independent thought, and
Science has hopelessly smashed very many of the
beliefs that our ancestors held most implicitly.
Therefore in teaching those doctrines formulated
ten centuries ago the clergy are frequently forced
to utter that which the world’s knowledge has
taught them to doubt and their people to dis-
believe. Take as an instance of this the story of
the Creation. Science first impugned the story of
Genesis by showing that long ages must have
elapsed before Chaos was reduced to Cosmos.
Forced at last to accept this view the clerics came
forward with a new reading of the passage, “Days ”
they said did not mean days, but periods of great
and indefinite length. But Science again inter-
fered with Genesis by showing that the earth was
inhabited long ages before Adam’s time. To this
demonstration Theology vainly seeks a reply.
And, in matters purely doctrinal, the Churches
continue to teach what neither clergy nor people
can really believe. The burning place of eternal
torment is one of the rocks upon which religion is
founded, but the intelligence of the age utterly
refuses to believe in any such institution, la
these, and many other matters, the clergy are
forced to play a false and hypocritical part :
teaching that which they themselves cannot
believe, and which the educated common-sense of
their hearers impels them to reject utterly. This,
then, is the difference between the status of clerics
in the sixteenth century and now—that,_ whereas
they were then sincere and were believed in by the
people, they are now more or less hypocritical and
are discovered in their hypocrisy by their hearers,
the result being that the old-time reverence for
ecclesiastical systems has now been turned to a
contemptuous kind of indifference.
Confronted by these facts it would _ seem in-
cumbent upon the ministers of religion to do
something to retrieve their lost position, or at the
least to banish the odour of hypocrisy which now
clings obstinately to the sacerdotal office. But
there is a mighty difficulty in the way of
any such reform. The churches refused to
alter or abate anything until the errors which now
need excision and the practices which require cor-
rection are so manifold that if any alteration in
any particular were permitted, the door would ba
opened to a series of radical changes sufficient to
utterly abolish the churches as they now appear.
The very need of sweeping reform is the one
thing that prevents any improvement being
effected. Yet to the clerics themselves there is a
danger in a continuance of the present state of
things, for, indifferent to church matters as the
masses of the people are, yet it may be that there
are sufficient lay enthusiasts in the congregations
to begin the work of amendment, and if such a
movement comes from the laity, there will be but
little respect paid to the long-maintained rights of
the clergy. And there is in the continuance of
this reign of hypocrisy the further danger to the
churches, that the monopoly of the teaching of
morality and virtue which they pretend to possess
may be more and more widely infringed by other
organisations and powers. as the churches
have year by year been falling behind the
people, so have they also suffered from a dimi-
nution of that exclusive influence which
once was theirs. So far has this sphere
of action been trespassed upon already that if
modern religion does nothing to retrieve its former
position, in a few decades eoclesiasticism may
vanish without leaving any appreciable blank in
the social world. The situation should be
apparent to those whom it concerns. Day by day
the churches are losing influence and power of use-
fulness, and this process will continue so long as
religions are swathed as now in manifest error and
hypocrisy. Whether it is possible to reverse the
order of things and to raise doctrinal religion to a
place of honour and usefulness is the question
which the professors of such religion have to face,
and from all present indications it would seem
that the answer must be in the negative.
“I am a British Citizen.”
Few things happen in the world that are entirely
useless, and even the case of the convicted poisoner
Louisa Collins may be valuable to the Australian
public at large. We shall not ring the changes
upon the atrocity of this woman’s crime—always
supposing she committed it-as this is just the
sort of cheap and washy social sentiment which
delights the soul of the shop-keeping daily press
and moves Sir Henry Parkes to his loftiest
flights of oratory. The public has already had
enough, and something more than enough, of this
kind of thing, and we shall not add our mite to
the already overflowing treasury of virtuous elo-
quence which has denounced the crime of secret
murder by poisoning. If Louisa Collins did
poison two husbands, or even one—and Ohief-
Justica Barley, it seems, has no doubt she
did bo, although, so far as appears, three
other judges and a majority of thirty-six
jurymen were of a more or less different opinion—
she was guilty of an awful crime. If capital
punishment is a wise and enlightened mode of
dealing with any crime, perhaps there is none to
which it is more applicable than this. If, more-
over, it is considered an act consistent with our
advance in knowledge and civilisation to hang a
woman at all, and hang her, as Mr. O’Maka
has remarked with a subtle sense of chivalry,
by the hand of a man, probably such a
crime as that attributed to Louisa Collins may
justify the act as well as any other. A good deal
might well ba said on both these subjects, just as
not a little might ba said of the doctrines enun-
ciated by Premier Parkes to prove that Parlia-
ment has no right to interfere with his actions in
, such cases, and that he has no right himself to
advise the exercise of mercy so long as the law
says that a convicted prisoner may be hanged.
There are, however, more important matters in-
volved in this case than any criticism of the
Premier’s shiftiness, which is chronic, or of hia
want of true moral courage, which is constitu-
tional.
e • •
The criminal law of New South Wales still
wears a lurid reflection from the bad old days
when a felon population led to a brutal adminis-
tration. In some respects the New South Wales
statute-book still bears the old brand of Cain —the
reckless disregard of human life and human
Buffering; but after all it is not in her laws to
much as in her practice that New South Wales
continues to show this mark of the Beast. There
was a time when Respectability, and of course
Wealth, in Australia, stood constantly on the de-
fensive against a criminal population which was
equally, of course, a poor one. In those good old
times to be accused of crime was much the same
thing as being convicted of it; and, naturally, to
be convicted was but the formal introduction
to the hangman. Juries selected from the garrison
of the social citadel made short work of those who
were accused of being amongst its assailants.
Small details of “ British fair play” to the accused
were out of place when the hanging of a few re-
presentatives of the criminal class, more or less,
was a matter of trifling moment compared with
the safety of the classes of Respectability, Times
have changed now, and the high places cf the
Synagogue are not seldom filled by the descen-
dants of those whose portion was then in the
outer darkness of felonry. Nevertheless, the
country has not advanced so very greatly beyond
the old practices of early days in some parts of
its administration of criminal justice. Even now,
to ba accused of a crime is in some important re-
spects to be treated as a criminal. If the person
accused happen to be poor and to have few friends,
his or her prospect of conviction is still a very pro-
mising chance indeed.
The case of Louisa Collins is a case in point.
The woman was accused of a terrible crime and
she had neither money nor friends to aid in her
defence. We do not say she was convicted be-
cause of these things, but if not it was only by
special good luck that she was not. Her case was
manifestly a difficult one to defend, yet the Crown
never asked her whether she had anyone to
defend her—the Government apparently never
dreamt of seeing equal justice done by providing
her with legal assistance. Till within three days,
as we are informed, of the first trial she had no
advice and no help. She was left to find a defence
if she could, and witnesses if she might; and the
Crown — [the Fountain — save the mark ! — both of
Justice and Mercy)— are you listening, William
Clarke, Minister of Justice, and Charles Robert
Baron C a btngton ?—concerned itsel f only to prepare
a case for her conviction and to assemble witnesses
to convince a jury of her guilt. That the woman,
after all, got a chance was no fault of the Govern-
ment or its system, but happened in spite of both.
Had not a man of some experience volunteered to
undertake the task of her defence —he fought her
case in court during fourteen days and was paid not
a penny by any one for so doing—a benevolent
system would have effectually secured her imme-
diate conviction by calling upon some briefless
barrister, without experience and probably with-
out skill, gratuitously to undertake her defence on
the morning of the trial. Such a counsel would
have had to meet the long-prepared case of the
Crown Vithout knowledge, without experience,
and without evidence ; it need hardly be pointed
out what the result was likely to be. The whole
thing is a hollow sham and a wretched travesty
of public justice. On the one side is
found arrayed careful preparation and a
long array of witnesses, keenly intellec-
tual and experienced counsel specially re-
tained and adequately paid for their services—
witnesses sought out by the police and paid and
fed at the expense of the public. On the other
side the accused is left to shift for herself till the
very moment of the trial. She has to find out
what witnesses she ought to summon, without
advice and without one chance of communicating
with them beforehand. She can, indeed, have
them served with subpu-nas without charge,
but the Crown will pay none of the expenses of
their attendance, and will in no way recompense
their loss of time. Such, we learn, was the case
of Louisa Collins ; and such will be the case-of
any citizen who is accused of a capital crime, and
who chances, like this wretched woman, to be
poor and friendless. And it is thus that in New
South Wales public justice is vindicated !
It is surely time this barbarous misapprehension
of justice was got rid of, and this hollow mockery
of fair play abolished in favour of something more
manly and less cruel. The.public is not interested
in obtaining the conviction of accused persons, as
the police and some of the judges appear to
imagine, but in seeing that crime is repressed and
equal justice done. The injury to the public is
incalculably greater when one innocent person is
unjustly done to death through a barbarous
system than when ten guilty persons escape
because the fountain of justice itself has in such a
case been contaminated and the government of the
country has itself become criminal. What is required
is but fair playand even-handed justice, and, for
the most part, it is accorded to accused persons in
other and more enlightened communities than
that of felon-born New South Wales. In civilised
countries—in France, Germany, America, Italy,
aye, even Russia—the Government sees that
accused citizens are defended, and pays for their
defence if they are themselves unable to do so.
Elsewhere witnesses for accused persons are not
induced to absent themselves by knowing that
they must lose by attending at a trial, but com-
pelled to attend and paid in all respects as those
summoned for the Crown. When such arrange-
ments are made the person who is accused of
crime, if poor, will still be heavily handicapped;
where the opposite system prevails, as it does in
Botany Bay, it is a mockery and a delusion to say
that the accused has had a fair trial.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Murder! Murder!! Murder!!!
Our refin M and “highly moral” (quotation from
Parson Madgwick) contemporary, Sydney Even-
ing News, is at it again. Last Tuesday it
published a half column extract from the Pall
Mall Gazette giving certain extracts from that
journal in re the latest Whitechapel outrage.
After many lines of comparatively unexciting
preliminaries, we come to the juicy and appetising
portion of this delightful and edifying narrative of
the brutalities of a foreign country :
Nobody answering his summons, the landlord broke in
the door. Then a horrible spectacle met his view. The
woman’s body lay upon her bed mutilated completely
beyond all description. The head rested upon the floor,
away from the body ; an arm lay apart from the trunk ;
the lower part of the body was opened up in a most in-
human and shocking way ; and the entrails lay in a
sickening manner about the bed. It is not surprising that
the landlord left the room in a fainting state, and that all
who subsequently saw the body feel absolutely unable to
dwell upon its appearance. The murderer does not
appear to have been identified in any fashion. But his
determination and coolness is evidenced by the fact that
he had locked the door and taken away the key. The
doctors are now examining the body, and Sir Charles
Warren is reported to have sent for the bloodhounds.
The street is now blocked by police, and a great crowd is
gathering.
Having thus waded up to its neck in gore the
chaste and charming News ingenuously proceeds :
It will be remembered that telegrams public d in
Sydney have shown that the first rumours of the crime
as published above were not altogether correct. The
woman was alive when discovered, and her murderer was
pursued for some distance, but escaped. A man was sub-
sequently arrested and charged with the murder, but
proved to be innocent and was discharged.
“ It will be remembered ” is excellent and “ not
altogether correct ” is simply Beautiful with a big
B. As the woman “was alive when discovered ”
it is pretty certain that her head was not cut off
and was not “ upon the floor away from the body.”
It is also reasonable to suppose that her arm was
not cut off either, and the fact of her being alive
at all renders it almost a matter of certainty that
her entrails did not lie “in a sickening manner ”
—dear old phrase !—“ about the bed.” The News,
in short, deliberately extracts all these hideous
brutalities and then appends a few lines saying
that the yarn is, “ as it will be remembered,” all
gammon. Murder ! Murder ! ! Murder ! ! !
*
The “ Anti-Sepaialisl.”
A ghoulish person, who signs himself “ Anti-
Separatist,” asserts in the papers that “ a Repub-
lic is the weakest sort of Government for sustain-
ing a war,” while he revels in the gore of a long
list of monarchical victories. If his statement be
true, the sooner Republicanism becomes world-
wide the better for the happiness of mankind, the
nearer the approach to that “Peace on earth”
about which the clergy are for ever plati-
tudinally prating. As a matter of fact, “ Anti-
Separatist’s ” contention is altogether at variance
with the truth. The gallant deeds of the
Switzers against fearful odds, of the Scots under
William Wallace, of the English Common-
wealth, of the first French Republic (the most
energetic fighting-machine the world has ever
known) with the world against it, of the
American Republic, with these of the Boers in
the Transvaal war, can never be forgotten ; while
many other instances could be cited to show the
falsity of this plea for monarchy as a source of in-
spiration to patriots. It is only natural that the
Republic should be first in every field to which its
attention is devoted, because, under the system,
talent is developed and leaders are chosen, not
because of their connections or wealth, but for
their ability. Moreover, under Republican rule
the warrior having something to defend, some mea-
sure of happiness at stake, therefore fights like a
patriot, not like a mere mercenary ; while under
monarchy he bears arms and discontent for mere
tobacco-money, in defence of the bloated blue-
bloods who batten on the energies of the masses,
and monetary institutions in which he owns no
share. A fig, the fig of Hyde Park, for “ Anti-
Separatist ” and his sanguinary sentiments. If he
will but materialise himself a billet awaits him at
the abbatoirs, where his bloodthirsty propensities
may be satisfied by the dissection of pleuro-
infected bullocks, and where, no longer dreading
the “armies that Germany will pour into us,' 1 he
may congenially employ himself in the manufac-
ture of black-puddings.
Tire “Courier” on Clot lies.
On the day when the Brisbane Courier entered
into possession of the vast, sixteen-storey white
elephant which constitutes its new business pre-
mises it started on a steady course of demoralisa-
tion. In the old times the Courier was a plain,
businesslike paper without any frills on it; but
these days are past, and now its only happiness
consists in filling up the astonished public with
nine-jointed polysyllables about the Unspeakable
and the Incoherently Utter, and drivelling about
the blue-mouldedness of the things that don’t
consist as they ought. A splendid sample of this
tendency appears in a recent leader :
Here and there some young girl, delicious as a pelar-
gonium in diaphanous white and with red-coloured adorn-
ments, stands before us, the darling of our rainless blue-
and-gold heaven and sun and many-coloured earth, mother
of us all. Rare, alas, too rare, is the white clothed man,
with crimson sashed helmet and waist that should he her
companion
And so on through a column of inane millinery
slush and eloquent girly drivel, mixed up with
long-winded inooherencies and foundered adjec-
tives that mean nothing in particular and point
only to the desolate vastness of nowhere. The
delicious young girl in diaphanous white
gets lost among deranged parts of speech
until she ends by appearing as the mother
of the whole colony, which suggests that she
must have married very young, or else that the
Courier fiend has lost his basis and is wandering
aimlessly in the tangled wastes of drink; the sun
is described as blue and gold, and as suns of this
patchy description are rare in these parts we can
only presume that the author has one fixed blue
eye and one revolving yellow one, and that each
optic sees a different colour ; and the man with
the ‘ 1 waist that should be her companion ” is a
conundrum, for while his waist is acting as her
companion it is impossible to imagine what is to
happen to the rest of him. Moreover, the author
sagaciously observes that the girl in question
“stands before us,” and we want to know what
will happen when she is tired of standing, and de-
sires to sit down or walk away; and the combina-
tion of the rainless heaven and the many-coloured
earth induces us to point out, without any desire
to be hypercritical, that when the heaven is rain-
less the earth is generally only one colour, and
that a dingy brown of the most depressing de-
scription. Furthermore, we didn’t require the
Courier to tell us that the sun is rainless, for
nobody ever expects the sun to rain anyhow,
unless a blue and gold sun is different from the
ordinary or garden variety, and—but, after all, it
is hardly worth while to follow the Courier’s mil-
linery leader-writer any further. Peace to his
bustle !
Jtlr. Vaughn’s Motion.
In the New South Wales Assembly one day last
week, Mr. Vaughn, M.P., rose to complain that he
had had a motion on the business-paper for five
years without ever getting a chance to bring it
before the House, and he considered this line of
conduct was getting monotonous. This statement
aroused a certain amount of excitement, until the
Assembly discovered that the motion didn’t refer
in any way to the necessity of upholding “ Pro-
testant Ascendancy,” neither did it relate to
Cardinal Moran’s claims to precedence at Govern-
ment House, or to any reflection by M ‘El hone on
Clarke’s ancestors, or to anything else which
afforded the slightest prospect of a row. It
merely concerned a common ordinary grievance
about a selection owned by a plain individual
named Mackkell who wasn’t related to any
member of Parliament whatever, and when the
Assembly learned this fact it folded its ears up
again and resumed its attitude of patient waiting
for a shindy to tarn up. If Mackbell wants
justice in any shape or form he may possibly get
it when there are no more ears left to chaw in the
Legislative Chamber, and when everybody who is
not totally bald has been dragged round the room
by the hair, and when all the known swears have
been sworn, and all the adjectives have been
worn threadbare; and when these things have
happened, and all the rowdy members are dead,
and the insolvent members have paid-up, and the
profane members have found grace, and the
drunken members are all sober, and the mem-
bers who dabble in syndicates have repented
and given all their goods to the poor, and the
grovelling members have learned to stand upright,
and the Greek Kalends have airived, and Trea
surer Burns has ceased to hold that two and two
make eleven and to propound fairy tales about the
weary Dibbs deficit—then or a 'little later it is
just possible that the House may have time to
look at the motion in question and right
any wrong that may have been done. But
for the present Mr. Vaughn had better
remain quiet. His motion has been on the busi
ness paper during five years of blasphemy and
free fights, in the course of which the orders of
the day have been rolled up into hard balls to shy
across the House at offending members, and doom
rnents have been laid on the table only to be cap-
sized on the floor and jumped upon, and the
Speaker has had his own printed decisions aimed
at his head, and it has survived all these disasters
and is still as good as new. Other motions of equal
importance have been trodden out of shape
until the movers themselves failed to recognise
them, or have been thrown out of the window and
blown away by the midnight breeze to be found
afterwards underneath a tramcar, or have been
eaten bodily when the House was enjoying itself
in Committee, and yet, through all these troubles,
the matter relating to Mack he ll's selection has
endured, and is still ready to come on for con-
sideration whenever a chance presents itself. A
motion which is possessed of such marvellous
powers of endurance is bound sooner or later
to come to the front. The parties concerned
in it may die and crumble away, and their
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns may
perish one after another, but the motion will still
live, and some day, when the long-expected
Chinese invasion becomes a realised fact, and the
New South Wales senators have been all exter-
minated by humorous and lingering methods, and
the Ah Sins gather together in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, to pass enactments in a strange foreign
tongue for the guidance of a new yellow nation,
they will find on the business-paper left behind by
the discomfited barbarian a motion brought for-
ward by a foreign devil named Vaughn, and the
question of Mackrkll’s selection will be attended
to at last.
One Melbourne land boomer parted with
£fi2,ooo hard cash in deposits rather than go on
with the payments on a block of land he had
purchased,
Advfc. from the Manchester (Eng.)
Guardian
Notice to Miners. In the Colony of New South
Wales, the Miners, especially those engaged in hewing
coal, are reaping a rich harvest, owing to the scarcity of
labourers of this description.
The average wage earned by the miners (working only
seven hours a day) is from 12s. to 14s. a day per man, be-
sides this one ton of coal is-supplied free to eaoh man
every month.
Rent is a very nominal consideration—in many cases (id.
per week for ground rent, or from 2s. to Cs. per week for a
comfortable cottage, according to size.
Provisions generally are very low in price.
At the present time two thousand miners could find
constant employment in New South Wales at the fore-
going average wage, and the earnings of six weeks should
repay the cost of each miner’s passage to Sydney, N.S.W ,
from which the mining is only from 40 to 90 miles distant.
We presume that the N.S.W. miners will now
spsnd a few half crowns in the advertising
columns of the Manchester Guardian and else-
where.


The following are the titles of some of the
discourses that may be expected to fall from the
eloquent lips of Pastor Jefferis ere long ;—The
Calamity of Cash Collection ; The Bane of a
Banking # ccount; The Righteousness of Rags;
The Blessings of Starvation ; The Joys of Ignor-
ance; The Holiness of Homelessness; The Pangs
of Paunchiness ; and How Money Makes Money.
The latter is likely to be the most profound and
carefully-worked-out of the series.
PERFECT HEALTH 1
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Mockings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Me. Onyons, of Melbourne, alleged bank-
defaulter, is just now in very bad odour.
An Adelaide man has had part of his brain
removed. He will probably be absent-minded
henceforth.
Said a prominent Salvation-lass at a recent
shivoo in Melbourne: “ One year ago, dear
friends, I could not get into any institution, now
I have been into all the Victorian gaols.” Hem !
A cheerful chicken, eight years of age,
burnt down a miner’s hut at Maryborough (Vic.)
a short time back, because his mother was wont
to, visit it and carouse with the owner. That boy
will grow up to be a shining light in some Social
Purity Society.
Dr, “ Don’t-you-feel-well 1 ” M.P. for
Mornington in the Victorian Assembly—who is a
Cockney and the son of a Cockney showman —
recently arose in the House, and snorted with
undue violence, because the Exhibition committee
had refused to permit the performance of Plump-
ton’s cantata, “Endymion,” by the great Oowen
orchestra, although it had been highly
spoken of by Sir Arthur Sullivan and the
“ Prince of Wales.” It was Dr. L. L. Smith
who conducted the delirious howl of “ God Save
the Queen !” in the Assembly on the occasion of
the downfall of the measure calling upon Parlia-
ment to concur with Queensland on the selection
of Governors question. Doubtless his affection
for that sepulchral wail, the National Anthem,
arises from the knowledge that it has been spoken
well of by the Prince of Wails.
When Primate Barry left England there
were 142 Anglican bishops walking about London.
It is estimated that only 5 per cent, of colonial
bishops reside in their own dioceses.
An Auckland Preabjterian congregation
owes its pastor one and a half years’ stipend.
However, it is safer for the shepherd to trust the
lambs than for the lambs to trust the shepherd.
The late Dr. Sewell, of the Victorian Bar,
was eminent as a criminal lawyer, and in his day
shared the big briefs with Ireland, Aspinall, and
Dawson; but however these three managed
Sewell never could get on without a stimulant,
and as the judges sternly set their faces—noses in
B
BN FRANKLIN PRINTING OFFICE
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. HiCIARM,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic am!
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Account Book Manufacturer, &0., &o.
Maclardy's £B Box of Stationery a, specialty. Send for
List of Contents.
Note Address— --—_
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fancy Goods. Inspection Invited.
CORRESPONDENCE
“J.J.D.” (Gippsland) : Thanks “Austra-
lian ” (Nagambie); You are full of patriotism—and bad
metre. These are the best lines :
“ Yea, those to whom the holiest trust, blind, senseless,
you confide,
They whom you call to noble Tplace, your destiny to
guide—
they are your foes, who, moth like, haunt the Tnrone’s
delusive glare ;
Who, traitors, sell your freedom that the bauble they may
share.
Awake, Australia’s sons ! awake ! oast the scales off your
eyes ;
Even now the crafty foe is forth—be up, and guard your
prize 1
Oh I tarry not, 1 pray you, for the hour is near at hand
W hen you may rulers be—or serfs— in this, vour native
land.
•■ “ Subscriber ’ (Brisbane): Thanks... “ Albert Skye ” :
000 l sentiment, bad verse... .“A. W.” (Newcastle); You
cannot yet write verse....“ George Coker” (Tasmania);
Write to editor of Lloyd’s Newspaper, London, mention-
ing The Bulletin ‘'Walter Reed”: The Bulletin is
uvl at variance with the Typographical Association, and
it employs only Union labour. As a matter of fact The
Bulletin proprietary were the first employers in N.S.W.
to voluntarily raise the rate for type-setting....
“ Contributor ” (Yea): Thanks....“ J.M.W.” : The fact
that one of the syndicates tendering for the lease of the
N.S.W. Government tramways has secured a monopoly
of the most desirable rights in connection with the laying
down of tram-cables renders the calling of tenders by the
Ministry a hollow farce “ Elite Next week, perhaps.
• •.. “ Bobahdebowster ” ( Mudgee) :We are afraid some,
body has this time been doctoring your Pegasus with the
hypodermic syringe “Boaz” (Whealbah): What you
say is no doubt true, but it would ooSt (us) about £7OOO
to prove it ‘ One who will patiently wait,” &o. (St.
Peter’s): You will have to patiently wait till the crack
of doom “ F.C.” (Camden): (1.) There are ‘‘three
estates ” in the British Constitution—the Sovereign, the
House of Louis, and the House of Commons. The in-
fluence that the newspaper-press has gained during the
last 70 or SO years has fairly won lor journalism the title
of “ the fourth estate.” (2.) We spell “ Carington ” with
one “ r ” out of pure cusssdness, mingled with a regard for
brevity, and if you annoy us we will spell it with a “ K.’’
■ • • A.J.8." : If an’elucidation of the Brisbane regatta
difficulty were required, Searle and Matterson, in deolar.
ing that they had backed the latter for the heat, have
furnished it “W.L.S.”: Parkes ' deprecates inter-
ference with the decisions of the Supreme Court and the
Executive. That is because he is now in office. If he is
averse, on principle, to such interference, why did he
release the convicted Newcastle rioters (representatives,
by the way, of thousands of well-organised voters), and
why did he head a deputation to Governor Carington ask-
ing him to grant mercy to the Mount Rennie convicts ?
Parkes’ to-day ever contradicts his yesterday
” Virtue” (Molong): We have “shutdown" on wattle,
poetry, our reason being that country poets invariably in-
sist on rhyming it with “throttle” and “bottle” and
“ hotel.” We are still prepared to quote kangaroo epics
at current rates, as it does take a bit of ingenuity and
originality to work that pensive marsupial up in verse.
We, however, veto “lullaby” as a rhyme for “wallaby,”
and “ scruple ” as the terminal of a couplet the preceding
line of which ended with “marsupial.” “ F.H.” : Re-
gret to say you are a dismal failure as a bard. Never was
there midnight dog-howl more unmelodious than jour
verse “W. Lipsett” ; Many thanks “J.C.D.”:
Vour “poem,” ‘ A Grave in the Wilds,” won’t do. We
shut right do .vn with a steel-trap snap on graves in the
wilds and dead busbmeu and their howling dogs—
“ F.W.1." (Redfern): Much better. Will try to polish
apanduss “True Blue” : The Land League, in all
probability, had nothing to do with the killing of Lord
Mountmorres. He was a poor harmless fellow whose only
fault was a way he had of corrupting peasant girls ; he
had taken no part to speak of in land disputes or politics,
and he was so hard-up that, at the time he was shot, he
was going to Dublin to get a £2O bill renewed for the
second time “ Reyassa ” (Broken Hill): We fear it
would /fie impracticable. We may yet adopt another
joheme which will meet your views.. John G.’
(Rangitikei, N.Z.) : Thanks for clippings and for your
good opinion “ Pasha ”: We want your assurance that
“ Fred. H ” is not a real name “ Native Bear ”:
Sincerely sorry that the quality of the Lismore clergy has
been so much below par “Banana Jimmy”: Many
thanks “ Gaieiy God ’: Thanks “ F.S.” (Macquarie
River); The Bulletin has been absolutely consistent
with respect to the annexation of New Guinea question t
notwithstanding that il did “scream” at “the con-
founded cheek of Queensland at hoisting the British flag
in that island.” The Bulletin held that Queensland was
wrong in troubling about New Guinea, or any other place
outside Australia's boundaries ; but the British Govern-
ment having, by their ultimate decision to annex part of
the island, endorsed Queensland’s annexation-policy, The
Bulletin claims that England should, in the first place,
have taken all or none, inasmuch as, by setting itself up
alongside the Germans with only an imaginary boundary
between the respective possessions of the two nations, it is
bequeathing to Australia a legacy of trouble—perhaps even
of war. The Bulletin does not “ worship” M'llwraith—it
only supports hisNationalisticpolicy, holdingas itdoesthat
the independence of Australia is before all things. As
for your remark that The Bulletin rarely supports a
man at an election who is not beaten we have only to say
that our policy is to cheer for the undermost pup when-
ever we conscientiously can. We know who is going to
win just as well as you do, just as well as the other papers
do, but we believe in backing the principles which we
believe to be right, and which therefore will, in our
opinion, ultimately win. As to our “ irresponsibility,”
we have heard all about that. Fhb Bulletin is a free
lance.
The Inch-man at the Picnic.
The picnic season is upon us, and those
persons who are given to this enervating dissipa-
tion and yield to the insidious influence of its
baneful tea and digestion-devastating pastry are
hereby advised to take warning from the experi-
ences of a pale but respectable young man, who
went out into the dim vistas of the forest with a
sanctified aggregation of fat, phlegmatic Metho-
dists and their families from Ballarat (Vic.) The
pallid young maif was something in a bank, and
he was tow-headed and slow of motion and mild
m his manners and soft to the touch ; he was also
very backward in coming forward and afflicted
with a species of dumb idiotcy, and loved to retire
within himself and bide the casket in shady
places when young ladies were ranged against
him. The picnic hereinbefore mentioned pitched
its tent in a sylvan retreat, beneath the spread-
ing wattle - tree, and proceeded to revel in
kiss-in-the-ring, forfeits, furtive swigs of rum,
aJt | un( ? re( i institutions peculiar to the glorified
Methodist when he breaks out and lifts up his
voice in the wilderness ; but the sensitive plant
who was something in a bank withdrew from the
festive scene and viewed the goings on from afar
on with a bashful eye, and when dove eyed dam-
sels found him in hiding, and coyly brought him
to take a hand in the game, he blushed a rich
salmon-tint all over, and bowed bis head, and
plucked at the grass in modest confusion, or mur-
mured a shallow excuse about being afflicted with
something in the way of a complaint that had
settled in his legs and precluded the possibility of
energetic action. When the cloth was spread on
the verdant sward, however, the bashful dude
came out from retirement, and ranged up under
the lee of a large female of phenomenal tonnage,
who was taking in cargo with the energy of des-
pair, and he screened himself behind her great
volume, and munched a tart in a humble, self-
depreciative strain, and silence brooded over the
face of the picnic, saving the click of rotary jaws
and the muffled thuds of gigantic hunks of
heavy cake falling off into oblivion. Sud-
denly the woman of prodigious proportions
turned round upon the mild young man,
and harrowed him up with a look of fearful re-
sentment and righteous indignation. The youth
recoiled violently with his head against a rock, a
crumb snagged crossways in his throat and choked
his emotions, and he gasped and turned deep
crimson in the excess of repressed feeling. He
recovered gradually, and was staring far, far
away with his mouth open, trying to remember
what he’d done, and why he did it, and when, and
where, when the cumbersome female bore down
on him once again, with a smothered snort, and
ii jd re dder and more hurt than of yore, and
called the blighted youth ten kinds of noxious
animals with her eyes, and he just wilted like a
wet collar, his backbone collapsed, and he beamed
into futurity a beam of bot Hornless despair and
hopeless entanglement. Eighty seconds of porten-
tous calm succeeded, and then the storm burst.
The goaded fat woman broke off in the middle of
a bun, shrilly remarked that she’d stand it no
longer, and grubbed the meek and mild bank-
clerk up by the hair, shrieked up one side of the
scale and down the other, shook her captive in the
wind till he frayed at the edges, then
dropped him on a hot custard, struck a
tragic attitude, called all good Methodists to
witness that he was a monster of infamy and had
been “pi pi-p-p-p-inching her (Wowh 1 yeowh !)
(Whoop ! Wosh !)” and then the mountain of
a fffl rav Ated female foundered ilnd sank upon the
chest of the thin curate, and went off into a set of
dquble back-action, link motion, ten-torse-power
hysterics. The husband of the insulted lady, a
brawny man in the wood trade, shocked and
pained by the lamentable revelations, took a cir-
cuit round his stranded spouse, and falling fiercely
upon the amazed young financier fought him all
over the sumptuous feast, in and out amongst the
tarts, across the cakes and custards, through the
cream and tea and poultry-stuffing, and secured
him with his head mired in' a gooseberry-pie,
and pounded as if he were wound up for the work ;
and the atmosphere was thick and murky with
broken victuals, erupted preserves, biscuits, fruit,
squashed delicacies, hair, skin, the shrieks of
women, and the cries of the wounded. In due time
the picnic interfered and drew the irritated wood-
man off his prey. The pale young man was up-
rooted out of the pie and stood on his end before a
sympathetic audience. He was littered with
cooked fruit, custard, cieam, scraps of tart,
cheese cake, butter, mustard, and other adhesive
edibles, from head to foot; his left eye was ob-
literated by a black patch; his nose set off the
track; his hair jagged out, and his mouth had ac-
quired an expression of touching pathos by its in-
effectual endeavours to climb over an extensive
rising on his left jaw. When all concerned had
cooled somewhat, a committee of five ladies was
appointed to enquire into the circumstances of the
case, and, after a brief retirement, a verdict
entirely exonerating the mild youth from blame
was returned, the real culprit having been dis-
covered in an inchman or bull-ant that had suf-
fered the penalty of its transgression in the col-
lapse of the fat woman. The obese female begged
the bank-clerk’s pardon, and the man in the w od-
trade said he was sorry, but the bashed and bash-
ful youth maintained a look of pained surprise,
and never smiled again. He was removed from
the festive scene in a furniture-van, and is now
sitting in a darkened room, contemplating suicide
and other gloomy outlooks.
The Referee
Another injustice to owld Oirelacd ! One
of the Maori footballers is named Madigan and he
hails from Tim aru ! “Thigin thu Hawikiki
musha Rakaka Ngatikoko Te Faughaballah!”
That’s the war-cry of Madigan the Maori.
* * •
During the last day’s footracing at Botany
the times were suspiciously fast. In his three
heats Charlie Samuels, the dusky flyer, was
credited with doing 8 yards and 9 yards (twice)
“inside,” while during the final heat, running
agaimt a blinding rain and a strong wind,
M'Garrigal, the winner, was said to have done
4 yards and 6J yards (twice) inside; while the
following men each won a heat in fast time —
R. Clarke, 4 yards inside ; J, J. Moore, 3£ yards
inside; Rowlands, 1 yard inside ; and Quick,
i yard inside. These times must, however, be
taken with somewhat more than the proverbial
pinch of salt; in fact, at least a ton will be re-
quired to keep them fresh.
* * O
Most of the Sydney “ cronk ” pedestrians
will, we prophesy, be in the great final “heat.’ 1
* * *
The world’s two-year-old trotting record
has been lowered in America by the filly Sanol,
who covered the mile in 2min, 18sec.
• * •
Searle is not without a considerable body
of sympathisers in Brisbane, but the great tide of
public opinion undoubtedly flows Beach-wards.
• •
It is now generally admitted that of our
professional scullers the Deeble “stable’’are the
best with the fists and the Matberson “ stable ”
with the sculls. In the matter of skulls there is
not much to chose, though in no case is average
form perceptible.
• • * •
It Is quite on the cards that old Nelson
will win the Auckland Cup for the fourth con-
secutive time. He is doing good work on the
track and is quoted at 5 to 1.
• « •>
Many Maorilanders affect parliamentary
phraseology. At a cricket match at Napier, the
other day, a batsman, wrapt in ecstatic contempla-
tion, stepped out of his crease and was stumped.
“Hout!” proclaimed umpire. “Oh, that be
d d; how out?” retorted the other. “That's
the ruling of the chair, anyway.” “Very well,
Mr. Chairman, now I ask you to reconsider, your
“Can’t! Why don’t you leave the
wicket, sir ? ” “ Because I’m taking time to con-
sider mg position, if you must know, yen pigeon-
toed old fool you !”
* *
The Ballarat Racing Club is working out
its own destruction with a will. It costs 10s. to
sit in the grand-stand and see five races con-
tested by fields of horses averaging three and a
fraction, nor can anything in the way of solid re-
freshment be obtained on the ground for less than
Is. This is the luncheon fee, and in order that
visitors must buy the luncheon or starve, the club
prohibits the sale of mildewed pork pies, &c , at
the solitary grand-stand-bar. The caterer was
even refused permission to give away a mouthful
of sandwich with his liquors. Consequently at-
tendance at the Ballarat meeting has dwindled
down to a worst on record.
• • »
“Cocky ” Burns says “ the flats at Botany
will have to be reclaimed.” When he is through
with the backers of Botany “stiffs” he might
reclaim the patrons of the Carington “ cronks,”
and then turn his attention to the Macquarie-
street “ crooks.”
• * o
There is a vast difference between base-
ball as played by the “All Yanks” and the
“Chicks” in the Sydney Association Ground
and a match played in America with both sides
“on the job.” If the game on Saturday last had
been played in the American fashion about half-
past three the umpire would have been seen fleeing
for his life scross Strawberry Hills, pursued by an
infuriated mob of all Yanks and Chicagoans,
thirsting for his blood. The baseball umpire re-
quires to possess the fighting capabilities of a
Feter Jackson, in conjunction with the fleetness
of a Charley Samuels.
• • •
The Cricket Council have decided against
Spofforth representing any county until he has
redded in England two years,
• • •
N.S.W. cricketing colta now swear by
Mr. “Dave” Gregory as sole selection man.
They never be fore got such a show as in the recently-
played match against the Australian Eleven.
• * *
The Melbourne Cricket Club will In all
probability arrange matters with the N.S.W.
Association to play home and home matches for
five years. As the Melbourne Association, how-
ever, declines to recognise such matches as “Inter-
colonial,” the Sydney body have not by any means
got the best of the deal.
* ♦
On dit that the Australian Eleven have
netted £lOOO a man by their tour. Walker !
particular—against allowing intoxicants of any
so rt in court, Sewell had recourse to an ingenious
trick which was worked as follows: His clerk
would sit in the library adjoining the court with a
bottle of “ square face,” and when Sewell felt his
“weakness” coming on he would call for a
tumbler of “ water ” Then old Mac, the'court-
crier, would hurry into the library and presently
emerge smiling with what looked like a tumbler
filled with “Adam’s ale.”
“ Bints for Mr. Eddy.” When a train
telescopes the passengers see stars.
The proprietors of the N.Z. Herald,
Auckland, are eminent Wesleyans. Religion bene-
fits at least to the extent of several shlilings per
week through the adhesion of the proprietors of the
Hkbald to that vigorous faith, and moreover, the
journal they conduct is the very quintessence of
white chokered solemnity and probity. It hates a
joke with a deadly Corsican hatred; it won't
print Freethought lecturers’ advertisements, and
is just about the holiest twopenny (9d. per week
delivered) eight-paged organ of public opinion
extant. Well, on a recent Sunday, while the
bald heads of Holy Joe and Holy Willie were
reverently cocked to one side to take in the
words of wisdom and counsel hebdomadally
dropped from the pulpit of a local Wesleyan
chapel they were horrified to hear the parson
announce that the sermon would be on the subject
of “Printers’ Sunday” Joe looked at Willie
and Willie looked at Joe, and they equirmed
simultaneously and groaned deeply in concert.
Then this inconsiderate cleric preached, so it is
said, at them, the pillars of Auckland Wesleyan-
ism, the props of the Y.M.O.A , saying that the
printing bi a paper on Sunday night was a viola-
tion of the Sabbath law, a wrong to the printers,
and a moral injury to the community. The
parson concluded by moving a resolution pledg-
ing the congregation to put that unclean thing,
a Monday morning paper, from them, and all his
hearers, with one or two exceptions, voted with
the ayes. And so one of the godliest papers south
of the line has been snubbed, sat upon, turned up
side down, and spanked by its own religious
adviser. Yea, verily it is hard to serve God and
Mammon.
The secret history of the growth of a
Home Rule policy in the Liberal party in Eng-
land .is not thrilling but it is instructive. The
first man who really faced the possibility of such
a policy and realised its necessity was Sir William
Hamilton, the present Governor of Tasmania. He
was sent as Under-Secretary to Ireland because
he possessed the ordinary qualification of know-
ing nothing whatever about the country. He was
a hard-headed Scotchman, however, and a con-
scientious man as officials go. His native thrifti-
ness was shocked and scandalised at the extrava-
gant cost of Government, dla Dublin Castle. In
an especial manner his sense of the fitness of
things was outraged by the state of the legal
establishment. Twenty-two superior court judg-
ships with salaries varying from £3OOO to £BOOO
a year, and nothing particular to do, were
used, as he found, for bribing and corrupting the
Bar; but it must be added that the, learned
gentlemen took so kindly to the opera-
tion of being “ insulted,” that they considerably
anticipated their elevation to the Bench
by insisting on enormous pickings out of every
case in which the Crown appeared. Hamil-
ton found that services which he thought hand-
somely remunerated by a fee of £l* were gener-
ously requited with as much as £7o’ He fried bo
mitigate this state of things, which stirred his
canny soul to its depths, bub he had .the whole
Tite Barnacle crowd clinging bo him in no time,
and pouring into his ears a tale of blood-curdling
horror as to the results to “ loyalty,” the
“Crown,” and the “law-abiding inhabitants” if ho
continued to pursue such a fatal course. Seeing
he was nob strong enough to sweep away some of
the corruption of Castle government, Hamilton
broadened his mind and enlarged his sphere of
action so as bo grasp and enforce a scheme for de-
stroying once for all the source of the corruption.
It happened that just then another hard headed
Scot was Chief Secretary for Ireland. This was
Campbell-Bannerman, a by no means brilliant
statesman, but a pretty advanced Liberal,
as the article is found in England. To
Bannerman went Hamilton with the tragic bale of
Ireland’s pocket. This story did what no theory
of abstract justice, no poetry abjut freedom, and
no amount of eloquent pleading in an Irish brogue
could do. It made Bannerman feel, through the
only channel to his sympathy, a keen horror for
the methods of government for which he was
officially responsible. He at once, as he said him-
self, “found salvation.” From the day that
Hamilton told him an Irish lawyer received £55
too much for doing Crown work Bannerman
became a staunch Home Ruler. The next thing
was bo try to persuade the Chief—the great, grim
Red Earl who was then ruling Ireland with
powers more absolute than those of the White
Tsar himself, who was responsible to no man, and
who was just then the object of denunciations as
fiercely eloquent, as scathing, and as fiery as the
passion-stirred depths of the Celtic mind ever
poured forth. The task was to persuade this
strong, execrated autocrat that the power in
his hands was unjust and that it should be
transferred to the hands of the angry people
who were roaring with fear and fury around
him. Truly a pretty formidable task. It
was attempted, however, and these two
canny Scots to their amazement discovered
that the all-powerful Earl, the hated “Foxy
Jack ” of the people, had reached precisely the
same goal as they had, and was like them a Home
Ruler. He had reached the same goal, bub by a
different road. No paltry consideration of the
“siller ” had touched his patrician soul. He had
applied in the midst of his tyranny the great
principles Of justice and liberalism to the solu-
tion of the question, and in their light had
solved it. Earl Spencer was a Home huler. It
was easy, then, to win over Gladstone, with
whom Spencer has always had an immense in-
fluence, and then the great work was accomplished.
Home Rule became the main plank of the Liberal
party in England, and will be the first question
dealt with when that party is restored to power.
Of course the Tories took the first opportunity of
transporting Hamilton bo Van Dieman’s land. He
was the only one of the quartette they could touch.


For Nervous Dyspepsia
USB HORSFORD’S acid phosphate.
Dr. A. G. Eawson Harris, L.E.C.P., and M.E.C.S.
Pembroke, Eng,, says : “lam sure that it is destined to
be more than a merely fashionable remedy of the hour.
I used it in a case of nervous dyspepsia, of long standing,
where for years there had been a great wear and tear of
the nervous system. This objectionable symptom was
Bj~e.nl y r.-li vVd in a way that no other remedy has ever
Messrs. Mobt & Chandon are now shipping to the
Colonies their 1884 Vintage “ Dry-Imp6rial ” Cham-
pagne. This is the produce of their own vineyards of
500 acres of the choicest growths around Epernay. The
" Dry-Imperial ” has never been shipped to the colonies
before. It is very dry. Ask for Most's " Pry-Imperial "
at all Wine Merchants
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Show-whits
p tT *M> Wr>i.T.*» rr,nnm It <• «•» »"«»"« ot
£JOOGEB PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Sydney.
The People’s Picnic Ground!
Ye Olde Enqlishb Punch and Judy Show.
The Marvellous Snake Charmer.
Every Afternoon and Evening tST At 4 and 8 o’clock.
The Magnificent SWIMMING BATHS !
The Sensational TOBOGGAN 1
The Performing SEALS 1
Every Saturday until further notice Costume Swimming
Carnivals for Ladies and Gentlemen.
A. F. SMITHS
The Original SPECIALTY CHARACTER & ACROBATIC
WONDER on ROLLERS.
Open trrm 10».m. »o in p.m. Adml“sion, Is : Children, fid
\ K STOP Kurd M».,a k ei
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. Hands Across the Sea ” p 14.
Hke Majesty’s.—“ Youth” „
Obitebion. “ Hans the Boatman ”
Haymabket Music Hall. —Harry Rickards „
“ Wanda ” haa fled from the scene of its
past joys at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and in its
stead “ Youth ” spreads the vast cumbersome-
ness of its eight acts across the stage. In various
ways “Youth” calls up fai at suggestions of the
“ Lights of London ” and several other dramas,
but anything that is wanting in point of originality
is more than made up in ferocity and vigour. The
hero is the military son of an Anglican parson—
and just here we would remark that a great un-
trodden field of literature is waiting to be opened
up by the dramatist who would leave out the
harassed parson and the threadbare, moth-eaten
squire, and boldly make his hero the uncle of a
pork-butcher—and he goes wrong by jilting his
cousin to marry a French girl whose first husband
isn’t dead. He doesn’t care for the French girl
much, and she doesn’t care for him, but they have
to marry or else the drama will go bung, and
shortly after their wedding the world closes down
upon the hero in the gentle springtide of his use-
fulness just as his emotions are getting ready to
come out strong. The tear of sensibility which
the French girl always keeps on hand salts her
husband’s claim, and he is shut up on account of a
cloud of suspicion connected with a bill at three
months, and is ordered by a stony hearted judge
to spend his years in assisting to build a gaol wall
which never seems to make any progress. He
and the French Kiri's other husband shovel lime
together and sit looking at the same brick, and
when a flushed convict, with a face like a quantity
of stale shrimps, breaks loose and assails the estab-
lished order of things with his nails, they
jump on him in concert and haul him down.
They are released together and go to the Soudan
in company; and when the British force, 250
strong, camps in a waste spot which looks a likely
situation for bears, and is surrounded by one
homicidal Arab who waves his Koran in the air
and sneaks behind a thousand hills, they reflect
together on the unreliableness of the French girl,
and then rush forward to the fray. For ten
minutes there is a fearful din of battle, and it is
impossible to throw a plate at any part of Africa
without hitting a British army or an Arab carry-
ing an old musket that won’t go off unless he
hauls the bullet out of it with a string—and then
the scene changes to the peaceful village where
the story commenced, and the old Anglican parson
is discovered coughing in the snow. The air is
calm and salubrious, and some wicked boys
have made a slide .in front of the house.
The various characters of the story gather together
and are surprised to see each other there. The
arrogant major—a person whom we forgot to
mention before-who urged the French girl on in
her wild career offers bis heart to the cousin whom
Geo'ge Rignold jilted, and while he is doing it
the French girl comes up behind and calls him bad
nanus George Rignold comes up behind the
French gul and reproaches her wish being a
Mormon, and behind George there looms up the
lady who was wronged by the Anglican parson 30
years ago, and who started to repent in the first
act but gave it up became the old clergyman de-
clined to sell her the cottage at the back of the
church to keep her contrite heart in. Half the
company disown each other and state that they
won’t feed at the same restaurant in future, and
the other half embrace and lean up against each
other. The French girl sits down on the cold
earth ; the wicked major begins to feel tired ; and
the curtain falls just alter the last tram has gone,
leaving everybody to walk home.
«
la the matter of scenery “ Youth ” breaks
all known records into small bits The scenes are
eight in number, and each one of the eight is
more beautiful than a dream and more elaborate
than the internal mechanism of the human frame.
Unluckily, however, it takes 10 or 15 minutes to
haul each stupendous work of art into place, and
before the show is over the audience is beginning
to wonder if it will ever see its home or its mother
any more. Among the locomotive features of
the drama Mr. Jewett, Miss Kate Bishop,
and Miss Emily Fitzroy are probably the
best. This trio represents incarnate Sin, and
before they have been on the stage an hour
their adimriag listeners have resolved to go away
at once and steep themselves in crime. Mr. George
Rignold, Mr. J. R Greville, Miss Rowland
Watts-Phillips, and Miss Athena Claudius are the
principal pillars of Virtue, and do their work ably
and well, but it is sad to reflect that their triumph
is merely a matter of accident, and if that Arab
in the Soudan bad only had another Arab to help
him, they would probably have gone under about
half-past 1L p.m. But, after all, Virtue seldom
does get uppermost in this world except by acci-
dent, so the authors have nothing to reproach
themselves with in this respect. Wherever “Youth”
has been presented it has proved a great financial
success, and so long as this state of things con-
tinues it is better not to tinker with the lonely
Mohammedan whose aged gun misses George Rig-
nold in the blood-stained Soudan.
*# # *
Mr. Frank Lincoln, an American funny
man of considerable advertising powers, gave his
first entertainment at Sydney Gaiety last Satur
day with an amount of success which surprised
most of his auditors. The ghastly dreariness of
various other funny men from different foreign
lands, who have laboriously humped their crape-clad
shows to the Australian shore and asked us to smile
when our souls were full of bitterness and dyna-
mite, and who finally left in disgust and spent the
rest of their lives in writing alleged books in which
they asserted that the Australians didn’t wear
clothes, was still fresh in our memory, and the stale
cat-fish of disapprobation was got ready for Mr.
Lie coin in case he might seem to call for such an
expression of public sentiment. After about five
minutes’ experience of the stranger, however, it
became evident that there was no demand for
violence. Mr, Lincoln is better even than
Maccabe, and is too versatile for descrip-
tion in less than a column of space. Among
his other accomplishments he can mimic every
animal, vegetable, and mineral under the sun, and
can shriek in every known language whether
he knows it or not. He can represent all at
once an excited Frenchman talking in shrill
falsetto, a barman drawing corks and com-
pounding mixed liquors, a dog chained up at the
back of the house, a cat on the adjacent wall, a
man falling over a rocking-chair as he gets out of
bed to throw a boot at the animal, and an elderly
lady with false hair and a revolving front tooth
endeavouring to produce a song. H« delivers
soul-moving orations on things that neither he nor
anybody else ever heard of or ever will hear of,
and when he is finished his audience are no nearer
hearing of them than when he started, and he is
prepared to walk on his voice and sing with his
feet at the shortest notice. In these and other
ways he keeps his audience full of merriment all
the evening, and yet when the show is over few
have any distinct recollection of what they were
laughing at, and the majority want to go back
next night to sort out their impressions and ascer-
tain what it was all about. Whether they will
ever settle the question in this world is a matter
that is open to suspicion.
** * #
Donaldson Brothers, the two marvellous
dislocators and contortionists who are prepared at
the shortest notice to break all their own limbs
and mend them again for a modest remuneration,
have been engaged to give a great boost to the
show at Sydney Academy. The Donaldsons, in
their way, are among the most remarkable pro-
ducts of modern civilisation. The public spirit of
the age expressed a desire for two men who could
distort themselves till they looked as if they had
been run over by a long row of drays and then taken
up in a balloon and dropped ICO 000 feet, and
Nature at once constructed the Donaldsons to
supply this long-felt want. Along with them
appears Oscar Smith, a ventriloquist and mimic
of considerable ability, whose presence is yet
another evidence of the social upheaval which is
steadily bringing the Smiths into the foremost
ranks of the great army of human progress.
What the world would be without the Smiths
it is difficult to imagine. The human raca
has gradually learned to rely on this gifted
family in every great emergency, and in an
unobtrusive way they have laboured for many
f set :
we c^ E ojf-
*'i*oJroj^^
years to hold together a social system which,
without their aid, would have falLn into nuns.
Their solid virtues have cast a reflection of re-
spectability over a demoralised world, enl t-heir
fathomless sagacity has averted more public
calamities than history has time to record. Tte
first Smith was the herald of the earliest dawn
of civilisation and refinement, and the tomb
of the last member of this patriotic house
will be the burial-place of mankind’s final
hopes, and his epitaph will be a melan-
choly acknowledgement that the earth has
been a failure and that the human species is
played out Therefore, we call upon the world to
cherish the Smiths, and we hold out the mudhook
of friendship to the representative of thai valued
tribe who appears this week at the Academy, and
trust that he may long survive to be an honour to
his ancient family, and may never go back upon
them by calling himself Smythe or Smjtbje or
Oarington, or any similar foolishness.
** * *
O wing to Monday this week falling on a
Friday and Sunday night being Tuesday a certain
amount of disorganisation prevails among the
shows, and most of the new programmes have
been postponed till Wednesday. “ Hands Across
the Sea ” at Sydney Royal and “ Hans the Boat-
man ” at the Criterion are two of the prominent
attractions for this indigestible season when
everybody eats too much as an article-of reli-
gious faith. Boxing Night at the Opera House
was celebrated by Mr. George C. Miln as
Damon in “Damon and Pythias,” with Miss
Maggie Knight and a company of great mental
calibre to give their support. The Rickards
gathering honoured Christmas at the Haymarket
Music Hall with sundry new songs concerning
’Arry; Bondi Aquarium laid in three immense
sharks —each 13ft. long—for the occasion ; and the
rival establishment at Coogee provided a man
named Smith from Chicago, described as the
“ original speciality character and acrobatic
wonder.” It is a pity that a person of such
extensive reputation shouldn’t be named Fitz-
clarence de Montmorency, but as likely as not he
can’t help it.
** * *
“ Wanda,” the last production of the
Majeronis at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), was adapted
from Ouida’s original yellow-covered volume by
that popular actor and dramatist, Mr. George
Leitch.
** * *
“ Bootle’s Baby,” dramatised by Charles
Bradley and played by the versatile Harry St.
Maur, is reported to have been a great success in
Tasmania.
** * *
“ The Miner’s Daughter ” and her merry
and noisy companions have been running their
festive existence at the Adelaide Royal, but the
attraction haa not proved altogether a financial
sucoes o . The Adelaide people appear to be quite
unconcerned with regard to matters theatrical,
for they are almost completely refusing their
patronage. Carrie Swain finishes her season
with the worn-out “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” after
which it is to be hoped that the Brough and
Boucicault combination will rouse some small
measure of enthusiasm in the holy inhabitants of
the pious city.
** * *
Ifc is significant of the position occupied
by actors and actresses now-a-days that their modes
of life and habits form the theme of such writing
and public talk. They live in a blaze of pub-
licity, and every detail of the actions of those who
have made themselves most famous is counted of
interest. Here is a “little list” connected with
Mary Anderson’s affairs Miss Mary Anderso
carries 150 dresses with her on her provincial
tour. They require 30 huge baskets for packing.
There are in addition six cases of properties, 14
large trucks of scenery, and over 300 wigs.
** # *
A Sydney sporting organ is responsible for
the following judicious observations :—“ No one
who has seen ‘ The Private Secretary ' would, for
a moment, imagine that, when first produced in
London, it was a complete frost. It was trans-
lated for Mr. Hawtrey from the German, and, on
the first night, it almost reduced a critical
audience to tears. In a frantic endeavour to
rescue it from utter failure, Mr Beerbohm Tree,
who played the Rev. R. Spalding, and the other
actors, received full license to ‘gag.’ They did so
with a vengeance. The story of the British
Museum lunch, as well as that of the forlorn young
lady, was introduced bodily; the catch-words ‘Do
you know !’ and ‘ Oh ! fancy ’ were due entirely to
the genius of Beerbohm Tree, and, similarly, Mr.
Hill, who played Cattermole, took most unwar-
rantable liberties with his part. Thus, out of a
dry German farce was fashioned a bright, stirring
play, and when the lease of the theatre expired,
it was transplanted to ‘ The Globe,’ where Mr.
Pendler, and subsequently Mr. Thornton, took
the leading character. At the end of the first
year’s run, Mr. Hawtrey gave a banquet, and
during the course of his speech, indulged in a
little self-congratulation on the success which had
attended ‘my first efforts as a dramatic author.’
This was received with wild shrieks of laughter,
which could only be extinguished in Roederer, a
fact which, under the circumstances, may be con-
sidered not unnatural ”
** * *
Leona Dare, a lady who a few years back
appeared at the Oxford Music Hall, London, as a
woman of mighty jaw, recently made a balloon
ascension in England, hanging by her feet from a
trapeze. On alighting six miles away she found
that she had forgotten her clothing and had to
ride back to town in an open waggon, clad only in
tights. Unless Leona has much altered, the for
getting process was not difficult, for in the old
days, when she lived by her jaw, she had about as
little on as any lady in that line of business.
*# * *
They’d been doing the backblocka of
Queensland and had only just returned to Mel-
bourne, when, as per usual, they got stranded on
the Royal Mail lamp-post. “Did yer ’ave any
luck?” asked a heavily-moustached comedian.
“Luck,” replied the recently-returned, “why, on
our opening night we played to four kerosene
lamps, and two of those went out after the first
act.”
## # #
Utility Lady (hurrying in breathless, five
minutes after the call for the distribution of parts
for the new spectacular production); “ What do I
get ?” Stage Manager (promptly): “You get five
bob fine for bein’ late, and you’re the Empress
of India in the prologue and Queen of Night in
the last act; and you don’t want to show up in
them dizzy old blue satin shoes again, fur you’ve
got to sit on a gold throne ten feet high and put
your foot on the neck of the King of Persia in the
last act. Now you come here to-morrow at 10,
letter perfect, or you'll be back in the second row,
carryin’ a tin sword, first thing you know.”
The latest news of Jennie Lee comes from
a London paper, and, from the writer’s tone, it
appears that the pretty little lady has fallen upon
evil days :
Poor Jennie Lee cannot escape the inevitable “ Jo." She
has tried new play after new play, honouring first one
author and then another, but always seemingly with the
same result—failure. Then, of course, “Jo” has to be
revived to pay for mounting, scenery, end costumes. Now,
I'm afraid even poor “Jo" has at last been worked out.
Looking in at the Theatre Royal, Brighton, the other
evening, I found the house only half full, and poor Jennie
toiling through the too familiar part sadly and half-
heartedly. No doubt she will try America soon.
We are glad 1888 is nearly over. It always
reminded us of one slim dude doing the block
with three well-fed country-girls. That’s why.
The Clown and Gumtree Jernel tells the
Australian farmer “how to circumvent the slugs.”
Pity Alfred didn’t go a little further, and give a
much-needed wrinkle to the poor Irish landlord.
Each successive U.S. President from Lin-
coln to Cleveland has exceeded his predecessor in
girth. Of them Tennyson would say that they
had “Broadened down from President to Presi-
dent.”
The Bulletin Is published early this week
to enable our staff to enjoy the festivities of the
s»as n—and give them time to recover from the
demoralising eff-cta thereof. Many unavoidable
on i sins froin this issue will be fully ntcmd Ur
next week
Wh u the late iffitler Cole Vsplnall was
Chairman of Committees in the Victorian House
of Assembly a member, now a barrister-at-law,
and who was—and is for that matter— ; a sturdy
rival of our own Sir ’Briery in tbe matter of
aspirates, rose to ask what was “before the
’Ouse.” Aspinall, with all the dignity appertain
ing to the office, rose and blandly informed the
honourable member that the letter H was before
the ’Ouse.
A friend of Mr. Michael Dooley has called
at this office to c orrect the statement which
appeared in a recent Bulletin that the fallen
hero was brought round by Marshall’s Tonic Ner-
vine. We have since interviewed the proprietors
of that medicine, and they state on good authority
that the only thing Nervine can’t do is to revive a
stunned Irishman who is unable to comprehend a
joke. Further inquiry, however, convinces us
that it was Slavin who took Marshall's Tonic
Nervine, and as a natural result he didn’t require
any bringing round.
The late Sir Redmond Barry, of the Vic-
torian Supreme Court Bench, was, if net godly, at
least akin to it, cleanly, and had an utter detesta-
tion of uncleanly people. One mornine- in Cham-
bers, the room being full of lawyers, he beheld an
attorney (let us call him King) noted usually for
his filthy appearance, but on this particular morn-
ing more disreputable than ever, if that could be
Barry, without a moment’s hesitation, stars! d the
Chamber with a loud snort and shout, and “ Mr,
King, in the adjoining apartment you will find
soap, towel, and water. Before you appear here
again be good enough to use them. ’ King,
nothing abashed, did as he was desired and re-
turned cleaner at leas, in the flesh.
In “An American Journey” Edward
Aveling, the S acialist and Agnostic, after a
lengthy description of Henry George, sums up
thusly “He is nearly standing at the parting
of two ways, one of which goes onward, and the
other backward. How near he is to that tren-
chant point he, better than all other men, should
know. Paradoxical as it may seem, he, possibly,
does not know what his decision will be. Bat the
decision will have to be made Will he go for-
ward with the labour party, resolved on nationali-
sation, not of land alone, but of raw material,
machinery, means of credit, capital, &c., or fall
back toward the ranks of the old parties to be
absorbed by them ? ’ Most .Socialists assert that
George has already begun to retrograde, though to
the impartial observer it looks more as if ad-
vanced thought had simply gone ahead and left
him stranded with his “ one plank ” on the banks
of the swiftly-running river of progressive human
thought.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
R* OMtnltat r>>« Woui't,
Everybody says—and what everybody aaya must be true
—that Pemell'a Snow-writ* P*t»nt Rot.t,bb FtjORB ia the
heat In (he market.
SWEET BOROMIA, the New Perfume. Manu
factored from'th West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia Sold Everywhere. Price, 3s 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORB. 138 Bourke-st., East.
ii e i. it mi it me.
Dr. Pullgrim, of Wom-
bat Township.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
About seven years ago a small borde
township occupying an uncertain attitude betwee
Victoria and South Australia-a township whic
to save labour and space, we will designate Won
bat was invaded by a long, dark, angular man
mounted on a vacillating vehicle of no classifier
style, drawn by a long, cream-coloured, angul;
quadruped, possessing several of the characteristi
of the horse in common with many of the distin
guishing features of the camel. It was hump
backed, club footed, flop-lipped, and its tail wa
balder than a cucumber and projected like th
handle of a pan, but in all other important pa
ticularj the animal was certainly a horse. Th
driver of this perambulating curiosity was mac
to match; he was fiddle-headed and flat-footec
his face was long-drawn and bilious-tinted—blac
side whiskers of extraordinary length and seed
ness though very stinted in material, streamer
like pennants in the wind, and his under-jaw
oy jrshot the mark like an old fashioned soap-box
hi - raiment was of funereal broadcloth, and hac
evidently been handed down through sever a
generations in company with his ancient “na
keg.” The driver perched on the top of his loac
wi oh his knees drawn up to his ears, and held hi
trotter high—a rule religiously regarded by ex
perienced Jehus. The residents of Womba
watched the progress of the invading carava
. along the one dusty road that traversed thei
municipality with considerable curiosity. Th
people of Wombat, like those of many othe
colonial townships, were remarkable for never ap
pearing to have anything in particular to do, anc
for the desultory manner in which they did it.
• • •
A few of the inhabitants of the hamlet,
whom the spirit of enterprise was more con
spicuous than in their neighbours, followed th
dreary aggregation up the silent street, and when
jb drew up before a central establishment whic
had long stood vacant they reclined languorous!;
pn the grass-grown side-walk and patientl;
events. The assorted animal in th
shafts no sooner felt the reins relax their tension
them he heaved a profound sigh and floppec
down on his knees, a devout attitude appertaining
so naturally to his marked family resemblance tc
a ship of the desert that it appeared to excite no
emotion in the breast of hjs elongated proprietor
who calmly dismounted, opened the door of the
vacant shop, and proceeded to unload his vehicle
The spectators were much interested by the per
sonal peculiarities of the solemn stranger, more
particularly by his eye—the eye in question being
large, fixed, and all white, like an optic in glazec
porcelain, quite unlike its mate, a small, dull
subordinate feature of no concern, but their
wandering attention was speedily distracted by
the mysterious character of the contents of the
caravan; peculiar packages and boxes, globes
bundles of dried vegetation, strange bones, and
grinning human skull, were conveyed from the
vehicle into the shop, and the enthusiasts o
Wombat looked vaguely into each other’s faces
and began to speculate in mysterious whispers.
• •
Towards evenlcg the most weird anc
awful rumours anent the new resident were in
full circulation about the township. Old settlers
of acknowledged astuteness, on being consulted,
solemnly avowed their firm conviction that some
supernatural agency was about to be established
in Wombat, awesome deductions were drawn
from the enamelled eye of the doleful stranger,
and from the skull and bones were augured all
kinds of blood-curdling possibilities. Early on
the following day the fearful populace collected
before the domicile of the new-comer, they perched
along the chock and log-fence across the way, or
sprawled upon the grass at a respectful distance,
and chewed, and expectorated, and exchanged
shrewd conjectures, whilst eyeing the now
mysterious tenement expectantly. The excite-
ment intensified when the tall, dark man appeared
at the door, and after glancing at the curious
assemblage, his glazed eye glittering in the sun,
proceeded to remove the shutters. The appear-
ance of the window only served to intensify the
emotions of the anxious populace, it was filled
with a promiscuous collection of bottles, dried
vegetables, glass canisters, and vials full of spirits
in which extraordinary worms, two-headed kittens,
extracted corns like the young of the octopus, and
various other objects of vertu were preserved ; the
skull occupied a prominent position, supported by
two bones, osseous fragments of some departed
cow, and a highly coloured diagram of the human
interior, picked out in tints and numbered like a
land-sale plan, was unrolled in one corner. The
stranger backed off the footpath, and sur-
veyed his establishment with evident satisfac-
tion, After which he withdrew, and presently re-
appeared with a ladder and a pot of paint. Setting
the ladder against the face of the shop, he mounted
it, and proceeded to trace letters upon the board
above the window, whilst the rapt populace
secured more advantageous positions, and followed
his hand with strained attention.
“ Processor Pullgrim.”
The men of Wombat maintained a painful
silence, they ceased chewing—none dared to ex- 1
pec borate. Your fellows of mystery, your
spiritualist mediums, wizards, and necromancers
of the deepest dye, are all professors. “ Professor”
looked promising.
“ Medical Herbalist.”
Every man in the crowd instantly ejected a
stream of tobacco-juice. The action was decisive,
Wombat was disenchanted.
Dr. I allgrim, dispensing chemist and cer-
tified herbalist, had his attention attracted towards
Wombat by intelligence of the depredations of a
virulent disorder which was then attacking the
juvenile population of the district, and for which,
in common with every other ill that besets man or
child, he had discovered an infallible cure. He
expected to find a brisk trade awaiting him on his
arrival, but he was mistaken. He had not been
settled in the township two days before every
trace of the lately-prevalent disorder had disap-
peared as entirely as if his china-like eye radiated
salubrity, and not even the prospect of a fee
was discoverable over the whole stretch of
the surrounding country. The Professor was
much disturbed by this manifestation of ill-
will on the part of' the community towards
whom he had entertained only feelings of
lively benevolence, and he forcibly declared that
in regaining their health with such exasperating
suddenness the people of Wombat had shown
themselves wanting in Christianity and a proper
appreciation of legitimate enterprise. Being
naturally of a hypochondriacal tone, the doctor’s
gloom intensified into morbid melancholy, and
whether at church, standing at his shop door, or
riding his eamel-backed, fiat-footed quadruped
about the district, his big white eye was fixed
upon the people with a glare of sad reproach, be-
trayed confidence, and blighted hopes. Dr. Pull-
grim believed that in remaining so brutally hale
the people of Wombat were not awake to their
best interests; that, were they but capable of
realising the astonishing curative powers of his
panaceas, they Would acquire a multitude of dis-
orders merely for the pleasure of being cured with
promptness and dispatch. He struggled to estab-
lish confidence in his ability as a medical practi-
tioner, having a vague idea that the heads of
ill %^Ws
1) -psp '
I'
)#
f*Vs /
te
I rfv C»" !
“AN OPENING FOR A GENTLEMAN.’
HAIRDRESSER’S ASSISTANT (to customer): “HOW WILL THAT SUIT YOU, SIR?”
CUSTOMER: “VERY NICELY; I HAVE NOT HAD MY BEARD TRIMMED SO
MUCH TO MY SATISFACTION FOR A LONG TIME.”
H. A.: “WELL, YOU SEE, SIR, MY PROFESSION IS ONE IN WHICH THERE
IS STILL AN OPENING FOR A GENTLEMAN; IT IS NOT OVERDONE
LIKE THAT OF A BARRISTER OR MANY ANOTHER OF THE LIBERAL
PROFESSIONS!”
families only wanted to be assured of his power
before laying their children up again and allowing
their own chronic complaints to renew their
attacks. With this purpose in view he occa-
sionally mounted his fiery steed, and goading that
amiable animal to its wildest flights, rushed
through the township, like Death in the Apoca-
lypse, to urgent cases away beyond the ken of
the residents of Wombat- But despite all this
Wombat retained its salubrity, and at the expira-
tion of three weeks Professor Pullgrim had re-
tailed two pennyworths of cinnamon bark, lent a
bottle of his world-renowned hair renewer, and
given change for a bad half-crown, and had re-
solved to make one last despairing bid for fame
and popularity. He determined to bring his
wares and their virtues prominently before the
public by a bold coup.
• • *
\Vombat was very proud of its cemetery,
which was situated on a hill about a mile from the
township, and was the most fashionable resort the
district afforded. Op fine Sunday afternoons,
especially, it was liberally patronised by the youth
and beauty, fashion and intelligence of Wombat.
The cemetery was pretty large, for the district
was an old settlement, and the number of marble
and granite headstones and less pretentious red-
gum tablets was not inconsiderable. On the Sun-
day following the execution of Professor Pull-
grim’s coup, the attendance was even larger than
ordinary, for not only had the recent juvenile
mortality intensified the popular interest in the
garden of the dead, but rumours of shocking dese-
cration perpetrated in that sacred retreat had ex-
cited widespread curiosity. Tremendous excite-
ment prevailed amongst the visitors at the ceme-
tery that afternoon; knots of 10 or 12 persons
gathered here and there about the graves in
solemn confab, and the name of Professor Pull-
grim, coupled with dire imprecations, was on every
tongue The Professor had shot his bolt. The
intentions of that astute and learned man were
not accepted in the benevolent spirit in which
they were advanced ; he had utilised the Wombat
cemetery and the tombs it contained as vehicles
for bringing prominently before the public the
virtues of his nostrums. With brush and paint
he had emblazoned his curative powers on every
whited sepulchre, and a deceased offspring or a
lamented sire was turned to point a pill or adorn a
plaster. People wjio had never been ill were
assured, in blue capitals on the back elevation of
old Brown’s tablet, they need no longer hesitate;
and on the marble slab covering the Maloney
family*vault those troubled with weakness, indi-
gestion, and all disorders of the liver, were asked
. with touching pathos why shey suffered when the
“Pain Mixture” was only half-a- crown a bottle.
“ Sole Proprietor and Patentee, E. B. Pullgrim,
M.D.” On the sign-board over the gate, all and
sundry rare reminded they might save funeral
.expenses and family bereavement by consulting
“ Professpr Pullgrim, Medical Botanist, High-
street.” The little in inemoriam verse on the
head-stone over the late Mrs. B. Rafferty, who
died suddenly at the early age of 42, respected by
all who knew her; was given a mission entirely
foreign to the design of the original bard, and
read;- 4 **
Sae laded from this lower sphere,
And knows no more the many ills
That racked her limbs when she was here—
She should have taken Pullguum’s Pills.
Mr. B. Rafferty perused that, and then he jumped
about like a lunatic, and used a lot of language
quite inappropriate to the occasion, after which he
returned towards Wombat in a great state of
mental agitation. On the stone sacred to the
memory of John James, eldest and only son of
Henry and Lucy Kirkpatrick, who departed this
life aged 1 year and 5 months, and conveying the
information that those whom the gods love die
young, was attached an addendum containing the
gratifying intelligence that Pullgrim’s Bronchial
Drops were never known to fail in such cases, if
taken according to directions, “ Sold in bottles at
Is., 3s , and 5s by B B. Pullgrim, M.D., High-
street.” Henry Kirkpatrick was so overcome by
this great truth that he became quite oblivious to
time and place, and, breaking down as strong
men do at times, sat on his boy’s gra.ve, and swore
till he was blue in the face. Then he, too, de-
parted towards Wombat in a hurried and intem-
perate manner. Mir. T. Wilson was made to re-
mark on the tomb tablet of his recent well-beloved
spouse, Sophronia Jane :
Affliction sore long time she bore,
Physicians were no good ;
Had I but known of “ Salusone ”
She’d now be splitting wood.
“ Sole Manufacturer, Prof. Pullgrim.”
A sentiment that moved Mr. T. Wilson to a frantic
exhibition of pantomimic pugilism, accompanied
by nine-jointed blasphemy and started him towards
the township with the light of a dismal purpose in
his speaking eye. The in memoridm on the
stone of Mr, T. T. Goswinker closed with this apo-
cryphal intimation : “ I would have cured him for
one guinea. -E. B. Pullgrim, Medical Botanist,
High-street,” which intimation moved the relict
and relatives of T. T. Goswinker, deceased to
join the excited delegation pushing towards Worn-
bat. Nearly all the tombstones in the cemetery
were pressed into the service of the sepulchral pro-
fessor, and their inscriptions diverted to the
glorification of his wares • and it was a large and
enthusiastic deputation that interviewed ' Dr
Pullgrim at his place of business in the cool of the
evening,
* • »
Wc draw a curtain over the goings on of
the deWatinn In tbo i V„
f««or! fnffi™ it StaJ h lew ?« d Pro-
from wZ£iEj '° * he tO “3
medical herbaLl w» knoin ta
®
Aboriginalities.
Christchurch (N.Z.) amateur philanthro-
pists wear an aspect of pain and the secretary of
the local Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals sucketh the thumb of bitter contem-
plation Mr. R. H. Donnelly, of the Palace
Rink, had a dawg. Donnelly’s dog had distemper,
which made him cough. Disliking to bury in
the cold seclusion of his kennel bis really first-
class, variegated cough, the animal carried it over
to the Government Buildings and lay down with
it in front of the window of the secretary S.P.C.A.
Pining for sympathy and appreciation the intelli-
gent tyke waited until he caught the secretary’s eye
and then let go on the cough—just let her go and
waited results The secretary, who was un-
sophisticated on the subject of dog cough, con-
cluded the animal was poisoned, and sent a
messenger to kill him. The murder over, the
secretary commenced a par. for the papers, de-
scriptive of his own presence of mind and the
glorious work his Society was doing. He was
just denouncing the villany of the ruffian who
would stifle the watch dog’s honest bark with
Rough on Rats, when Donnelly happened in to
leave behind him some painful comments on the
excruciating idiotcy of a secretary S.P.O.A. who
couldn’t distinguish distemper from poison. Later,
a policeman happened in on that secretary and
left behic d two summonses, one for the value of
the dog, the other for—cruelty to anima's !
It happened on a sheep-station out West.
The squatter, a true specimen of our hardy-
pioneers, had been suffering the “what we do in
England ” of a new-chum guest until his patience
was exhausted Thinking to give his friend a
lesson as to “ how we do it in Australia,” he told
one of his four sons to catch and saddle a certain
horse on the run. Now this horse was reckoned a
“terror ” to ride, in fact, the son commissioned to
catch him was about the only man on the run
who could boast that the horse had never throws
him. The moke was brought round to the front
of the house where all were sitting, and after
little trouble the son got seated in the saddle.
But only for a moment, for what was his surprise
and his dad’s vexation of spirit to feel himself sent
a “ regular ” flyer! The Englishman gave a hearty
guffaw and started “Now in England ” “Oh,
d n England!” burst out the annoyed old’
man, “ jiet show us how you would ride this
ere brute in England,” and calling to the youth
who had caught the “ terror,” he said, “-Bill*
bring the moke over here. Mr. Brown is going to
ride him.” A covert grin spread over the man’s
face, but Mr. Brown, to his credit be it said, did
not show any fear at the task so hustled on him j
he simply buttoned his coat, walked up to the
horse, and mounted—on the wrong side. Amid
the helpless looks of the dumbfoundered specta
tors, the horse quietly and even placidly
walked off without a solitary kick. As it after-
wards transpired, the animal had been trained to
he mounted on that side, and Brown’s ignoranc®
of equestrianism had saved his neck.
«- * •
The much-maligned Clement Wragge*
Government Meteorologist of Queensland—/n
Clement Wragge, they call him—is prepared to
be useful as well as ornamental. The drought
was so bad lately at the Mackinlay in the north-
west that a determination to remove the horses
within a week was come to. Wragge was con •
suited, and, mounting his tower, he searched the
heavens for a raincloud for those horses. He
found one—several. Word was wired to the
Mackinlay that rain would fall there in four days,
and so it happened. This is what we call a prac-
tical application of the lore for which the colonies
build observatories and appoint distinguished
officers. Will Messrs, Russell, Todd, and Ellery
hearken ? The flame of a tallow-dip is more use-
ful to the housewife than is the fire of the planet
Mars. Mr. Wragge, who is said to be boycotted
oy his brother astronomers, is going the right way
)o work to make astronomy worth paying for,
But is Mr. Wragge on an intellectual plane in
this matter with the rain making clergy ?
BEATEN BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beaten back in tad dejection,
After years of weary toil
On that burning hot selection
Where the drought has gorged his spoil.
All in vain ’gainst him, the vulture,
I have battled without rest—
In the van of agriculture,
Marching out into the West.
Now the eagle-hawks are feeding
On my perished stock that reek
Where the water-holes receding
Long had Ufa the burning creek.
I must labour without pity- -
I the pick and spade must wield
In the streetways i f the city
Or upon another’s field !
Can it be my reason’s rocking,
For I feel a burning hate,
For the God who, only mocklntr,
Sent the prayed-for rain too late ?
Pour ye, mocking rains, and rattle
On the bare, brown, grassless plain ;
On the shrivelled hides of cattle
That shall ne’er want grass again !
Rush, ye yellow flood to Murray,
Over thirsty creek-banks foam ;
And o’er all, ye black clouds hurry
Ye can bring not back my home !
HENRY LAWSON.


Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Grown Pbefumket Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition All Melbourne
is on this Scent.
Burdette, the American humorist, has
become a parson. What a humorist!
There is in Melbourne a parson named
Bell. The pew-holders pull the string.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO. p
AUCTIONEERS.
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &o.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages,, Allotments, &c.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale Issued Bali}.
All List* potttd J»r« on applisalior,
Personal Items.
Ruskin receives £4OOO per annum from
profits on his books.
N.S.W. pays pensions to two ex-Deputy
Masters of the Mint, amounting bo nearly £9OO
per annum.
There are bo less than 43 Ministers and
ex Ministers of the Crown in the two Houses of
Parliament of N.S.W.
Gladstone, Darwin, Oliver Wendell
Holmes, Abraham Lincoln, and Tennyson were
all born in the same year.
While at Eton Mr. Gladstone was Hogged
once, and that was for refusing to betray a school-
fellow who got into trouble.
The Clown and Gumtrbe Jernei asserts
that Swinburne’s price for a 16-line poem is £lO.
The usual Jernel rates exactly.
There is an acacia tree 70 years old at
Fairfield, N.S.W., said to have been planted by
the mother of Wills the explorer.
Sir Frederick Napier Broome, Governor
of West Australia, said, in a set of verses written
HO years ago, that he felt he never could become a
great man.
There are six Jewish generals in the
French army of to-day. Saule was of Jewish
blood, so was Massena, Davoust’s mother was
a half-bred Jewess.
The opulent Mr. W. H. Suttor, M.L.0.,
who does some amateur literary work for Sydney
D.T., passes the money obtained for same to
Bathurst Hospital.
Jefferson Davis is 80 years of age. He
is a better life-insurance risk now than 25 years
ago when 600,000 Federals threatened to hang
him “ on a sour apple-tree.”
The will of the late George Rouse, J.P.,
of Bnraganbil, near Mudgee, N.S W., was proved
at £133,000. Mr. Rouse was a native of the
colony and a successful breeder of stock.
The Pall Mall Gazette says that Bishop
Barry is too superior a man bo be allowed to re-
main in Sydney. This is rough on Baron Smith
and on Premier Parkes. Now we come to think
over the matter, it’s a deadly insult to ourselves.
From the number and baau r y of the speci-
mens of his “obituary” eloquence given in the
daily press, it is plain that Consul Griffin could
appropriately fill the position of Government post-
mortem orator should the N.S.W. Dead-house
scheme come off.
Of the members of the short-lived Parkes
Ministry of 1877, not one is now in' the Assembly
except the old man himself. Two are dead (Pid-
dington and Driver), three in private life (Subbor,
Hoskins, and Lloyd), ore a judge (Windeje ), and
one in England ('ir Saul Samuel).
G. R Sims rather plumes himself on a
superficial knowledge of Celtic. At a Donegal
village he laboriously commenced a conversation
with a native by asking him how he liked London,
when the villager replied : “ Sbure, sorr, the
gintleman who spakes the O Irish has gone to his
bay.”
Justice Windeyer relaxes occasionally.
He is a spiritualist, and a brother of that ilk
remonstrated with him lately on his apparent want
of feeling. “Don’t mind appearances,” replied
his Honor, “if you saw with my eyes you would
see that my position in such cases is always a
trying one.”
Mr. Herkomer, R. A., saya :
l am now charging £lOOO f t a pci trait, but people
would come all the same if I wne to charge £2OOO. it is
a great injustice. It is lowering art to a bwsiatsa.
Quite true Simon Fraser, of Victoria, got his
portrait painted by Millais, for £2OOO.
Geo. T, A. Lavater, secretary of Mel-
bourne Exhil ition and accountant to the railway
department, shares with Peter Lalor the honour
of having taken a prominent part in the defence
of the Eureka Stockade. During a recent visit of
a party of Exhibition visitors to Ballarat, George
mounted the pedestal of the monument that is to
be, on the site of the stockade, and in a spirit-
stirring address said he gloried in the fact that he
had worn the red ribbon and been one of the first
to fight on behalf of the liberties of the Austra-
lian people.
Blood-thirsty advt. from the Cooktown
(Q.) Independent
Notice.—To North Shore or Cooktown bullies and black-
guards —I have invested in one of Lund’s six-shooters and a
blunn’s bowie knife, with the full determination of apply-
ing them for self-defensive purposes against any bullying
coward who, trusting to his superior strength and youth,
thinks he can force his way into printing premises and
knock an editor into pulp, with impunity. If the law is
not sufficiently strong to protect the Press from rowdies,
bullies, and larrikin scoundrels, then the Ireas must
adopt Texan means of defence. Only one more warning
will be given.— J. Fowler, Editor Cooktown Independent.
Hugh Hart Lusk, barrister at law, who so
ably defended Louisa Collins, the “Botany
Borgia,” during her four trials extending over 14
days, without fee or reward, comes of an old and
respectable New Zealand family. Mr. Lusk was
at one time a member of the Auckland Pro-
vincial Executive, and held a seat in the N.Z.
Legislature. He is an able and fearless debater, a
good thinker and a pronounced Protectionist in
politics. His brother, Major _ Lusk, had charge
of the Auckland military district at one time, and
commanded the colonial forces, the first time they
were under fire, in the desperate battle of Bald
Hill, which illustrated to Jack Maori the
superiority of the bushwhacking settlers over the
red-coated “ ikete pip ” and other soldiers of Her
Majesty.
The London Penny Illustrated brags
that the first Australian order for its Christmas
number is 50,000 copies.
Prof. Morris (Melbourne University) saya
there never was a “rasher conclusion than
Donnelly’s Baconian theory.
The new Melbourne evening paper, to be
called the Evening Standard, will not make its
appearance until March next.
The adepts in Buddhist occultism claim
that victims slain by their avenging spirit invari-
ably have the hieroglyphic of the murderous
demon imprinted on their breasts. Singularly
enough, the Maoris have a similar superstition re-
garding makutu or witchcraft. Recently a girl
named Te Ore Ore died suddenly at Wairarapa,
Wellington province, and her friends alleged that
her death had been compassed by makutu pro-
duced by a married woman, the daughter of a
tohunga, or priest, and whose son had made love
to the bewitched girl The maiden, before her
death, stated that she felt a large stone being
rolled on her, and after her demise Wi Waka (the
venerable), having examined the body, declared
he had found the witch’s mark. The native com-
mittee, after hearing all the evidence, found the
alleged sorcery proven, and the supposed witch
and her husband have, under threat of death,
changed their camp from Masterton to Greybown.
Sir George Grey and Other skilled ethnologists
have claimed that the Maoris are derived from an
Eastern Asian race, and the existence of a com-
mon belief in a destroying spirit’s, or witch’s,
mark would seem to be evidence in favour of their
contention.
Man is like an egg. You never firui out
whether he’s bad until he’s “ broke.”
A few months ago a Kaffir diecL i^mler
suspicious circumstances on a South ? African
diamond-field. His body was opened and’a sixty,-
caret diamond, the cause of his death, Was (found
in his stomach, • «y,\ t
Recently a British company at Batavia
imported a number of coolies from Singapore
work for low wages. The native Javanese Work
men rose en masse, and now about half the coolies
are in hospital. A, <
A new chum states that he saw the South
Head lighthouse when 100 miles away at sea,
This is impossible, but as he evidently saw some
thing it must have been Parkes’s opinion of, him-
self taking a stroll. —Adapted \
This is a Scotch edition of a very hoary
cheslnut : .
A sexton at Kirkintilloch, being intoxicated, fell asleep
in a grave. Whpn awakened by the bugle of a pas Hug
coach, he took it for the last trump, arose, and looking
around, said : “ Ech, puir show for Kirkintilloch 1” His
local patriotism had expected a more populous assembly
on this occasion.
A mounted trooper stationed in the
Northern Territory reports that he has discovered
NO CAUSE FOR FEAR.
“For many years past I have fait that death has been stating me in the face"
—P REMIER PARKES
GRIM DEATH: “YOU NEEDN’T HAVE BEEN AT ALL ALARMED, OLD
COCOLORUM. YOU KNOW VERY WELL THAT THE GOOD DIE
YOUNG!”
an active volcano in that sultry land of alligators.
As active volcanoes are scarce in Australia we
trust the new curiosity will be taken care of, and
any London syndicate which wants to jump the
burning mountain and fence it in and charge
2s. fid. for admission to see the eruption should be
promptly trodden flat by the hob-nailed boots of
legal authority.
Cardinal Moran’s name cropped up some-
what amusingly at the Parnell enquiry lately.
The Attorney-General read a letter from Michael
Davitt to a New York newspaper in which it was
stated that Dr. Moran, then Bishop of Ossory,
was denouncing the Land League. The letter
ended with a prayer that the mind of the eccle-
siastic might ba opened to the truth. _ That
prayer has been answered,” said Mr. Harrington,
M.P., solemnly, and for a second oq bwo yo u
could have heard a crowbar drop, and thin, dad,
sorr, all at wanst the howl Ooort roared an yelled
loike to shplit wid supprasht merriment. Le-
gorra ! it was moighty foine, so it was !
Here Is a nice savoury little morsel having
reference to that interesting victim of Australian
prejudice and persecution—poor dear John China-
man. It is fished out from Brisbane “ The re-
port of the inspector of nuisances stated that no
less than 47 dead animals had been taken out of
the creek between the two shires, most of them
being dead pigs which had died from disease, and
had been thrown into the creek by the Chinamen.
There were no less than 638 pigs kept by China-
men in the shire, and fed with nothing but the
refuse collected from hotels and boarding houses,
and brought out in mats and bags. It was gener-
ally fermenting and putrid before the pigs got it.
&c., &c., &‘c7
A man haa written a book to prove that
the Whitechapel murders are the outcome of a
curse called down on Mitre Court by a monk s
assassination of a woman on the altar-steps of
Trinity Church some three centuries ago. Modern
curses don’t keep as long as this, so that the
mediaeval method of salting down curses would
seem to have become a lost art. It is perhaps
just as well, as we might have Sir John Robertson
bottling up a good, old, full-flavoured, well-
rounded bullocky curse which might be let loose
on Victoria about the time she was getting up
another boom and an exhibition on the strength
of Australia’s third or fourth centenary.
“ It is 28 years since a woman was hanged
in New South Wales. Since 1842 four women
have been executed : Lucretia Dunkley (another
Borgia), murder, executed at Berrima October 22,
1842 ; Mary Thornton, murder, executed at Port
Macquarie, 1844; Mary Brownlow, murder, exe-
cuted at Goulburn, 1855 ; Ellen Monks, murder,
executed at Goulburn, May 8, 1860. The early
days in this country must have been rough times.
In the year 1829 there was an execution for every
day of the year, Sunday included; in 1830 there
were only two days when an execution did not
bake place : in 1832 the average was a little over
three executions for every two days of the year.”
This comes from Sydney E. News. Whence does
Alfred get his figures ?
At Rockhampton (Q.) the old gregarious
Soldier has been replaced by a new and less com-
plex variety. On the occasion of the last parade
only one private fell in, all by himself. He went
through the usual evolutions and formed fours and
hollow squares and other bh'ngs with deathly
solemnity and never smiled once. There was a
whole staff of officers present to order him about,
but even under the withering gaze of eight full-
blown colonels and sixteen captains and lieutenants
the deserted soldier did his duty like a man and a
patriot. He charged and retreated and perpe-
trated flank-movements and did autumn man.eu-
vres; he defended fortified places and threw up
earthworks in front of himself and drove himself
out of them after a stubborn resistance : he
represented heavy artillery and unlimbered
himself, and then he prepared to receive
cavalry, and finally he was called up covered
with perspiration and glory to be publicly
thanked by the eight colonels and the lb captains,
who presented him with a £•> note for being the only
remaining soldier in the district. It was the best
day these officers ever had. When two or more
troops are present the Australian grocery captain
and the wine-and spirit major are always liable to
get them tangled up in knots, and they haven t
the faintest idea how to untie the army when it
becomes subject to this catastrophe, but with only
one soldier on hand things generally go smoothly,
unless when some unhappy evolution brings the
solitary private up in the corner behind the door,
and nobody knows what order to give to get him
out again. But, even then, the trouble can
generally be got' over by taking the door
off its hinges and telling him ’to “quick
march,” or something of the sort, and
the officer usually gets away without need-
lessly exposing his ignorance. Altogether the
solitary soldier presents so many advantages
that we expect shortly bo see the old, cumbersome,
gregarious species finally abolished. In future
campaigns the troops will go out one at a time
with 14 colonels to drive each private along, and
we venture to prophesy that the results achieved
by this method will be so surprising that the his-
torians of the next century will have to sii down
to write about them.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The proportion of crime to population in
Kansas (U.S.) is one to 2000. Kansas has pro-
hibition.
The three degrees of Empire; Positive,
chartered company ; comparative, protectorate ;
superlative, annexation.
Lord Charles Beresford says that England
has only 30 line-of-battle ships, and losing these
means losing the Empire.
That horribly protected country, the
United States of America, has a budget surplus
of over 17 million pounds sterling.
Except in the British and Australian Par-
liaments, it is beginning to be considered improper
to call a political opponent a liar.
Charles Cavan Daffy writes that Victoria’s
own experience shows Queensland’s contentions
on the Governor question to be well founded.
What is this we hear about a certain
official circularising his subordinates, and recoin
mending them “ as friends ” to buy his book V
Thus the S.F. News-letter: —“China-
men and Britishers seem to be running a race for
unpopularity just at present, with the chances of
the largest measure of success being in favour of
the Britisher.”
Parkes says that the opposition of those of
his supporters who voted against the tramway-job
was based on their disinclination to lose the privi-
lege of riding free on the trams. Judas’ price
was 30 pieces of silver. Parkes, who ought
to know, says that some of his pig-vole followers
will sell a principle for three pence,
Cladstone’s platform is now manhood-suf-
forage, payment of members, direct representation
of labour, all-round Home Rule, disestablishment
of the Church. His latest speeches are like copies
of Sir George Grey’s when the latter was turned out
of office in N.Z in 1879. The G.O.M. is beginning
to preach unadulterated Socialism.
B. R. Wise writes, promising his suoport
to land-nationalisation. “ Two things,” he
says, “ are plain at present, and they are both
immediately before us. (Me is the duty of re-
sisting Protection ; the other the duty of insisting
on a land-tax based upon its unimproved va'u i.”
And pray who is going to help in the wcrk of
land-nationalisation ? The soi-disant Freetrade
party —the party which, in Victoria, fought a land-
tax right up to the edge of revolution —the party
which, in N.S.W , is identical with land-monopoly
and shoddy goods ? We smile.
“ It la too bad,” saya an American paper,
“ that the line old Californian custom of voting the
graveyards has almost fallen into disuse. There
was a time when we honoured the dead. With a
sentimentality which was very much to our credit
we believed that the spirits of our departed friends
took still a keen interest in mundane affairs, even
though they might not have had the time to look
closely into the details of the campaign, There-
fore we did them the friendly and touching act of
voting for them. We marched boldly to the polls
and voted every headstone, and felt proud that we
could be credited with this touching act of re-
membrance of those who had gone before. Now
the infernal system is getting so tightly laced that
if a mourner votes a dead friend he tumbles into
one of the many pitfalls dug for an enterprising
citizen by the Criminal Code of the State of Cali-
fornia.”
Hon, Richardson, N.Z. Minister for Lands
and Mines, has neither the physical nor mental
ear-marks of a popular pet. He is a surveyor of
medium height attached to a large head with a
cigarette in it, a gruff manner, and a gloomy con-
viction that the world contains many millions of
people -mostly fools. Also with a cast-iron
certainty that when things come to be sorted he
will not be with the majority. Rightly or wrongly
he is accused of obstructing land-settlement and
caring less than the proverbial tinker’s cuss for
mining. Lately the editor of the Wanganui
Chronicle, who is also a Mayor and quite a
large local pot—Wanganui, by the way, is a
hub of the universe—constituted himself a de-
putation of one, came to Wellington and pro
pounded to Richardson in terrible tones this
conundrum : “ Don’t you think it is the duty of
the Government to lead people in the way of
settlement?” Richardson, without looking up
from his writing, moving a muscle, or turn-
ing a hair, roared louder: “No!” Then the
editor-person sat down with a thud, unbut-
toned his collar, turned back his cuffs, crossed his
legs, inflated his lungs, expectorated on the carpet
and plunged, head first, in medins res. Long
’ere the oratorical scribe had turned the corner of
his first period he heard a door bang and found
himself—alone. Then the chronicler returned to
Wanganui hurriedly and wrote a four-column
leader calculated to make creation flourish its tail
and creep into its burrow. At latest advices the
good scribe was still editorially bellowing for
Richardson’s blood.


THE PROSPECT DAM.
The Minister for Works, with two experts, has taken the matter in hand, and the public “have no Immediate cause for alarm.’


ŵ
\a/
J>^
-V
I
/
ẁ
ẃ
f '
yi [/'i L
HtlxE-
Ll tS
\ C 5 O
UiV
iv
i
1*
ẅ
w
7/ /J fo />& jfo/>ecf >
jfeard /fia /cp/'<?/ J
fjp/s '
Mu
'i&i U. A
Our Centennial New Year’s Card.
EOP. IS NOTHING IF NOT ALLEGORICAL.


Thk 1884 Vintage is one of the best of this century
Moet and Ohandon are now shipping their “ Finest Extr«
■Quality ” Champagne of that year (with 1884 branded on
cork and label), styled “ Dry—lmperial.” It is very dry,
and is the produce of their own vineyard of 2500 acres of
•the best growths in France. Of all Wine Merchants.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEVIONT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarington
“By Appointment.”
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Gash Price
flven for all kinds of 6ent.’s Left-off Clothing.
)ress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTINTON BKOR.. 11l
«Wt. MMLROTTRN*!
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level,
N.B—Only Swn hour a frnwt Melbourne
Society
The Toorak Dudes’ Club, when playing
cricket against the local Ladies’ Club, use broom-
sticks instead of bats, and bat, bowl and field with
the left hand only. When the dudes get married
the women will likely hold the broomsticks and
the bela’ed eye-glassed masher will thank the
heaven that has given him a strong right hand
* * •
The Australian correspondent of London
Life writes that: —
The ladies of Melbourne are on the whole nob con-
spicuous for their beauty. You see sometimes great
beauty of feature, but the colour eo common, and so
much prized in England, is rare here. The sun and
winds, which are so hot, arc fatal to this physiognomic
decoration. When one does meet with a face possessed
of a good fresh colour, one strongly suspects that it is a
recent importation from the old country. On the other
hand, the “ aids to a good complexion ” are much more
rarely used. One very seldom sees a face which owes its
freshness (1) to the work of the “artiste.” Perhaps, it
may not be ungenerous to say that the heat of tiie climate
would make detection certain. “The future Australian
beauty” has been the subject of serious discussion in the
newspapers, and the conclusion to which the writers came
was, that the effect of the climate would be to produce a
somewhat colourless olive beauty, like the Italian, ac-
companied by dark hair and eyes. Thus the special
characteristics of the Saxon race of light hair, blue eyes,
and a fresh-coloured complexion, will be conspicuous by
jbeir absence in the future fair denizens of the South.
The testimonial-fiend
walketh in the noontide
and broodeth like a de-
vouring pestilence over
all the weary land. About
the latest occasion on
which he spread his wings
on the blast and breathed
in the faces of fools as
he passed, was on a re-
cent voyage of s.s. Wai-
hora, Sydney to Welling-
ton (five days), when 66
spineless saloonists, to-
gether with the unadul-
terated ass who got it up
and read it, presented the
skipper wish an illu-
minated nightmare and a
sum of money “as a
feeble,” &c., &c. That
was not the last case
either. “Several of our
leading citizens (Auck-
land, N.Z , or elsewhere)
propose to present tram-
driver M ‘Geoff aghan with
an illuminated address,
a book of ferns, and a
purse of threepenny-
pieces, as a feeble token
of the respect and esteem
in which they hold him,
and as some slight mark
of their appreciation of
the able and courteous
manner in which he, on
a recent occasion, drove
from Ponsonby to Queen-
street.”
* * •
The students of St.
Paul’s College, Sydney,
welcomed Primate Barry
to their institution on his
return from his English
trip. On the gable end
of their chapel they set
flying a flag on which
were painted a pirate’s
skull and crossbones.
Whether or not this was
meant to be significant is
not known.
An American lecturer addresses a solemn
-warning to the Potts Point aristocracy :
Don’t emblazon your front door with armoured knights
and rampant lions, because they don’t belong or grow there.
Don’t put your name over everything you possess, so that
people who pick up a fork or look at a pillow sham will
read “ John Smith, my property.” It’s all right to mark
things of use in some such way, hut not things of beauty,
and if you must so mark them make the letters small and
.put them on the back of the object, not the front. The
lady who wears her initials in diamonds on a brooch is
vulgar. The man who prints his monogram on his china
■does a useless thing, for nobody is going to run away with
■his dishes.
We call attention to this warning, not in anger but
in sorrow. We are tired to death of the publican
who insists on putting a large picture of a Jones
rampant on the notepaper that he can’t write
upon, and who would fain persuade us that his
wife’s ancestor, the Duke de Thompson, fought in
the Crusades. We are tired of Jones and weary
of Thompson, and we would urge the publican to
let up on these forefathers and live on his own
responsibility. To the average British nobleman
a crest is a necessity, for when he is overtaken by
a temporary attack of idiocy in the public thorough-
fares it is essential that there should be some mark
on his linen which will inform the policeman where
to send him home to, but the publican who has
had sense enough to make money out of his calling
knows his way about without these incumbrances,
and is generally aware when it is advisable to
come in out of the wet. Consequently there
is no visible reason why the initials or the
crest of Benjamin Jenks should be needlessly
thrust on the notice of the public on every possible
occasion. If Jenks has a crest and can’t get rid
of it let him put it away in an attic and lay some-
thing heavy on top of it to keep it steady; it is
private property, and it is no more reasonable to
stick it on a carriage door than it would be to hang
another piece of private property in the shape of
a shirt out of the carriage window. The soulless
multitude, as a rule, don’t take much interest in
crests. As zoological studies they don’t amount
to much, for they consist mostly of mammals
that are knocked out of all earthly shape,
and placed on end in fatiguing and insani-
tary attitudes, and for anatomical purposes
they are absolutely useless. Moreover, when
a man possesses a crest he is expected to live up
to the animal, and generally he finds this the
hardest job he has ever tackled. Old families who
have owned for several centuries the sole right to
use a giraffe sticking out of an ash-barrel, are bound
sooner or later to succumb beneath the strain;
most bf them are already in a state approach-
ing very closely to chronic lunacy, and the few
who are still able to go out without being led with
a string have thin, spidery legs and sloping fore-
heads and other signs of physical degeneracy.
Therefore we denounce crests as being among the
most fatal tendencies of a decaying nation, and we
urge all Australians to beware of them lest the
intellect of their race should be undermined before
the new continent has fairly begun to make his-
tory. Orests, in our opinion, are a disease which
can only be healed with a club.
• * *
The Melbourne Herald, a journal ad-
dicted to discovering new horrors and social
dangers which were always there, only the
Heeald didn’t know, has published a “ Startling
Announcement ” touching the contagious nature
of puerperal fever. Everybody who knows any-
thing at all is aware that this particular disease
stalks in the track of the birth-rate and fre-
quently compels doctors to cancel certain interest-
ing professional engagements. Everybody, we re-
peat, has been hearing about this antique scourge
for the last few centuries, but Melbourne’s Even-
ing Thriller accidentally stumbled across the
facta very recently. Thereupon that inestimable
oracle broke out in large capitals, commending
puerperal fever to “the serious and instant
consideration, not alone of the medical profession,
but of the Central Board of Health and the
Government.” It was very funny. In a worthy
spirit of emulation The Bulletin now begs to
insist upon the urgent necessity for stamping out
measles and banishing whooping-cough from our
midst. We further call upon Lord Carington and
Our Gracious Queen, also the Mayor and Corpora-
AT A N.S.W. FIELD DAY.
GENERAL (to Trumpeter): “TRUMPETAH, RIDE DOWN TO THE SECOND REGIMENT AND TELL COLONEL R. TO TAKE
THE ADVANCING ENEMY IN THE RIGHT FLANK—BUT BE VERY QUICK!”
TRUMPETER: QUICK! YER SAY. THEN LET’S ’AVE YOUR ’OSS AND YOU CAN ’AYE THIS ’ERE ONE IN THE
MEANTIME!”
tion of Sydney, to take violent measures with a
view to checking scarlatina. That all these com-
plaints must, in the words of our text, “ be dealt
with at once is a certainty.” For ages they have
been permitted to exist, but they shall exist no
more. The Bulletin has called attention to them
and their days are numbered. We modestly accept
the thanks of the community and feel that we
have done no more than our duty. Haw !
Callow youths are continually writing to
Australian papers for the best hair-raising recipe.
It makes us tired when we read the venerable recom-
mendation to try cantharides, ammonia, mustard,
camphor, and other heartless delusions. For the
third and last time we now take oath and swear
that petroleum, gently rubbed in, will produce a
sickly growth of down upon the fresh young face
of early manhood, and that a steady irrigation of
baldheads with the same inflammable liquor will
germinate hair seeds in a week, always provided
there are any lying dormant in the cuticle. The
men employed at the petroleum works acquire a
habit of wiping their oily fingers on their skulls,
and a number of baldheads have yielded a plente-
ous harvest in consequence. But not one barber
in 50 has learned this great truth.
• • ■
A large number of solicitors are being-
admitted to practice in N.S.W. —apparently to
counterbalance the drain on the ranks of the pro-
fession caused by the number of rogues now
being struck off the roll. Thus does the devil
take caie of his own
• • •
Magistrate: “Madame, your husband
charges you with assault.” Lady defendant:
“Yes, your honour ; I asked him if he would ever
cease to love me, and he was so slow in answering
that I hit him on the ear with a tea-pot. lam
only a weak woman, your honour,” she added,
melting into tears, “ and a woman’s life is blighted
unless she enjoys the tender love of the man to
whom she has entrusted her happiness. Case
dismissed.
• *
The American flexible spring lamp-post is
the latest landmark on the track of science. It is
built for the relief of that class of smokers who
always leave their matches at home, and is so
constructed that it can be bent down and used as
a handy means of lighting a pipe or a cigar. When
released it springs back to its upright position on
the instant. It is no good to lean against, how
ever, as it lets go whenever a drunk embraces it
under the impression that it is his brother who
went out to Australia in ’57, and the patient is
straightway dropped into the gutter. Nobody
is compelled to believe these statements if he
doesn’t want to.
* * *
One of the pleasantest little hospital items
which we have ever run against has just arrived
from London. A surgeon, who for a number of
years held an appointment in a city infirmary,
publishes a long letter on the general management
of these charitable institutions, and among other
hair-raising statements he declares that all sorts
of elaborate and painful operations are constantly
being performed on pauper patients, not because
the pauper patient wants any operation done to
him but because the surgeon is anxious to show
how the thing is managed. Individuals suffering
from simple fractures have legs sawn off in order
to enlighten a gaping crowd of students and teach
them how to take other legs off when the time
arrives for them to saw up their fellow-creatures ;
the victim with a dislocated arm is cut open and
explored just because the surgical class is studying
some internal organ at the time, and it is neces-
sary to demonstrate to them how the said organ
works ; and when this little matter is arranged
and the patient is sewn together again the disloca-
tion is attended to and he is handed over to
the nurses to undergo a gradual process of
repair. If the subject is experimented into
the next world it doesn’t matter much. The
doctor who did the damage signs a certificate
stating that he died of some nine-jointed poly-
syllable, and nobody is ever any the wiser. Inside
the hospital the patient is utterly helpless. The
inquiring sawbones is master of the situation;
there is no one, apart from him and his colleagues,
with whom a complaint can be lodge!, and if, now
and then, an idiotically tender-hearted nurse says
something outside about a patient who has de-
parted in an amputated state to climb the golden
stairs it is set down to her ignorance and she is
promptly sacked. Altogether a London hospital
seems to be a joyful place to die in, and, for our
own part, we, if half these things are true, would
prefer to end our days peacefully in a butcher’s
shop with the unsaleable meat for our sole com- ■
panionship.
* * *
When the flower-fanciera had finished their
annexing at the “ As You Like It ” wedding, the
other day, a certain clergyman gazed at the wreck,
and sorrowfully remarked it put him in mind of
the old Scriptural saying, “My house is a house
of prayer, but ye have made it into a theatre.”
* * *
There is a strong probability of the ap-
pearance, in the near future, of an Australian
Opera, the libretto by Brunton Stephens, and
the music by Frederick Cowen. The former’s
work, at least, is already completed.
• * #
Now that the shearers’ strike Is over,
people are asking why Cowen does not get his
hair cut. In any case his fleece should be ex-
hibited in the long-wool section of the forthcoming
wool-show.
• 9
There will shortly be issued the “ Public
Speeches and Addresses of His Royal Highness
the Prince of Wales during 25 years (1863-1888) ”
With bated breath we await its appearance in
order that we may saturate ourselves with the
Royal eloquence and dream of receiving a C.M.G -
ship. The slumgullion is to be edited by Dr.
James Macaulay, and we trust that at the bottom
of each speech will be printed the name of the
fellow who wrote it for the fat old marionette
to deliver. A press notice goes on to say, “The
work will be, in substance, the public and official
life of the Prince during the past quarter of a cen-
tury, narrated by himself.” How nice! Yet
more sensational would be his private life over the
same period, “narrated by himself,” and illus-
trated with portraits of all his friends and views
of his favourite haunts.
* * •
Sarah Bernhardt on the question “Is
marriage a failure ?” —
The possibility of divorce makes the association of man
and woman formed by marriage more agreeable, inas-
much, as it equalises their tights Forced slavery no
longer existing, the necessity for revolting against it is a
thing of the past. Mutual concessions can now be made
without causing a sense of humiliation on either side, for
these concessions have now become voluntary. The
knowledge which husband and wife now have that each
can regain his or her liberty, if married life is no longer
supportable, just gives an amorous turn to reconciliations
after domestic quarrels, and allows a poetic veil to be
thrown over Monsieur’s slippers and Madame's pot-au-feu.
*
This year there were two candidates for
mayoral honours at Dunedin (N Z.)—-a lawyer and
an undertaker. Competition was keen, and bids
for support and promises of largesse, in the sweet
by-and-bye, liberal. The Devil’s Own promised
that he, if elected, would give the Council legal
advice without backshish. The undertaker, in his
nice, sad, comforting way, undertook, if permitted
to heft the seals of office, to bury any of the
Council needing interment gratis. The frugal
burgesses voted in the corpse-gardener.
* * *
“A married woman,” writing in a daily
paper, says “that unless Mrs. Collins be hanged
no man’s life will be secure should his wife happen
to transfer her affections to another.” Where is
the man whose life is safe anyhow when his wife
has transferred her affections to another ?
* • •
“ Klllingworth Castle Parkes ’ —that’s a
pretty tall name.
A correspondent o!
an English paper con-
tends that every Church
needs priestesses as well
as priests.
* • *
Melbourne Exhibi-
tion receipts have not
yet reached £70,000.
“Did you read in
the papers, Jessie, what
an awfully funny way the
Emperor William and
the Emperor Francis
Joseph took to salute each
other ?” “ No, I did not
see it, Fred; how was
it ?” *• Ob, I cannot ex-
plain it, but I think I can
illustrate it.” “ How was
it —do show me.
Be—qui—et, Fred ! If
there is one thing sets my
teeth on edge more than
another, it is to be kissed
in the ear.”— Exchange.
♦ ♦ ♦
That frisky young
fellow Sir Alfred Stephen,
proposed the healths of
the bridesmaids at the
Allen-cwm-Dundas wed-
ding breakfast, and
Doctor “ Lucy ” Wilkin-
son, M.L.A., duly re-
sponded,
• * *
It has been re-
marked that it took a
Primate and two clergy-
men of the Church of
England at St, Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, on the
13 th, to marry Miss
Dundas to Mr. Boyce
Allen, whose father and
grandfather were distin-
guished Wesleyans and
built the Wesleyan
Church at Toxteth Park.
* * *
The champion mean
woman at present browses
at Wellington (N.Z.). She pays £9O a year
house-rent and garbs more gorgeously than
King Solomon in his Sunday best, and on an
out-patient’s order for the hospital gets all her
medicine supplied thence for one colonial robert
the quart-bottle. Some time since she imperiously
demanded from a committeeman a permanent order,
so that she might-see the doctor about her false
teeth and have her pet pimple-lotion and hair-dye
made up whenever she liked. She is supposed to
be a relative of that Auckland rich woman who
begged soup tickets for a “deserving object ” and
boarded her pauper pa thereon,
Mr. G. H Sims had an experience of
Mrs Gordon Baillie and he thus relates it
Airs. Gordon (Old) Bailey has wound up her career of
swindling- with a blaze of fireworks. The stories told by
the police officials of her life and adventures read like a
romance. The marvel is that, with the woman’s trans-
parent “ humbug,” she ever succeeded in imposing upon
anyone of ordinary intelligence. When I knew Mrs.
Gordon O. B. she called herself Mrs. Knight Aston. She
ca-ne to me one day in Gower-street —it is now some years
ago-—with a long rigmarole about the great success her
husband had made in comic opera in Australia, and she
offered me £5OO for the Australian right of “The Merry
Duchess,” which was then playing at the Royalty. I
didn't like the lady’s manner. She talked much too “big,”
and her tongue went at such a rate that it yvas difficult for
me to get a word in edgeways. I saw at once that she
was not a desirable customer, and I politely “ choked her
off,” but she returned to the attack, and called again and
again. She was rather a fascinating woman in her
manner, and her appearance was good, but she always
gave herself away after she had been talking five minutes.
At last, to get rid of her, I gave her a note to take to my
solicitor authorising him to draw an agreement on the
payment of the £5OO. As soon as she had taken the note,
I sent one on to him by hand, warning him that I didn’t
like the lady’s style, that I thought she"wanted to get the
MS. and the score for purposes of her own, and I told him
to see the colour of her money, not in a cheque, hut in
Bank of England notes, before he went to any trouble in
the matter. The result was that, after one interview, we
heard no more of her.


«. H. PALING Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1888.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organa, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention Is called to the followla
Exceptionally First-olasß
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS s
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estef
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
V. N. PALMS i CO-, U
«gi GEORGE STREET, two flees* Isom F.Q
When next yon bake try Pemsll’B Snow-white Patent
KotiLEE Pi,on« and von? bread will ha as white an »cow.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
lor this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
John Banyan lives at Waverley, Sydney,
and is a ’bus-proprietor. The Pilgrim’s Progress*
to Waverley costs threepence.
Steele, who runs the odoriferous skin-
warehouse down Tub Bulletin right-of-way, is,,
in our opinion, the original green-hide monster.
The Mount Morgan (Q.) Mining Co.’s new
gold-saving works are now complete and are, so
say the directors, treating 1000 tons a week,
yielding soz. 13dwt. 19gr. to the ton, or nearly
loz. more than by the old process. In the main
35ft. shaft the bunch continues as rich as ever,
and on top of the floor are still over 20,000 tons
stone to be removed. No promises are made
for the future, there being no desire to encourage
rash speculation. This last sentence is a perfect
poem in its way. Modesty is always beautiful.
The Australian Star says, “Never do
we remember the Sydney Morning Herald
having once put in or supported a plea for mercy
on behalf of any unfortunate person who may
have come within the grasp of the law.” The
Star wrongs the Herald. Does it not remember
that in the Mount Rennie case the Herald,
having metaphorically greased the rope by justify-
ing the shocking and unparallelled iniquities
legally committed in that case, calmly turned
round and published an article (on the very morn-
ing when the wretched criminals stood on the
drop) saying that their trial was a disgrace. This
beautiful and timely homily reached the Herald’s
subscribers at their breakfast-tables. Before
people could get down town the youths’ necks had
been stretched. The Star owes the Herald a
most humble apology.
Victoria' had a lord who didn’t pay his
bookmaker/and now Queensland has a lord who
refuses to pay his cabman,
• •
In Freetrade Sydney, a few days ago, in
response to an advertisement for a man to drive a
cart, there were oyer 100 applications, although
the pay was only £l per week and food ; whilst in
Protected Melbourne the advertiser has a son who
receives over £2 for similar work.
* * *
Can’t someone invent a garden gate with a
spring that will swing back the gate every ten
minutes on a moonlight night and cry “ Scat!”
There is more money in the successful realisation
of this-idea than in a lease of the Sydney tram-
ways.
It is cabled that the Sultan of Zanzibar is
daily ordering the execution of prisoners who ha\h
undergone nd form of trial. Pooh! We coulc
cable lots of news of that sort from Australia to
Zanzibar.
A division was taken in tho N.S.W,
Assembly the other night on a proposal to omit
from the Estimates the salary of the hangman,
who gets £l5O a year reg’lar. Four members
voted for the proposal; five or sixand-twenty
voted with the noes —with Nosey Bob, in short.
The backyards and garden plots of all the
Sydney parsonages, having been thoroughly
cleansed and watered by the late coastal rain,
their inmates have been substituting services of
thanksgiving for the supplicatory invocations
which were about to be held. As the interior of
the country was not yi,sited by the rainfall that
deluged Sydney, the parochial selfishness of the
Sydney sky-cleaver is apparent. It is also appa-
rent that the average Sydney parson knows no
more about back-blocks than he knows about
heaven.
LAYS OF LOVE: BY A CASUAL BARD.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
No. I.
A HARBOUR PICNIC.
Mary had a little lamb,
A little salad, too,
A section of a luscious pine,
And just a tart or two —
I think I might omit the rest
That Mary had—don’t you ?
We wandered by the water-side
After our lunch was done,
And both agreed the afternoon
Was a most browsy one—
You’ll understand me when I say
It was a browsy one.
We talked of this, we talked of that;
Swift time we heeded not;
She talked the most, because I found
The sun so very hot.
You see it bores a man to talk
When it’s so beastly hot,
With everything that Mary said
I did at once agree.
I acquiesced, because it came
Much easier to me—
I find it generally does
Come easier to me.
But everywhere that Mary went
I was not sure to go;
To one request of hers I gave
A firm, but kindly No !
Ah, yes ! to that request I gave
A most emphatic No !
She wanted me to take a boat,
And row along the shore ;
I said I couldn’t see the point
Where I began to score—
I think yon must admit it’s hard
To see where / should score.
But Mary didn’t seem to see
The matter in that light ;
She said, “ We’ll go and join the rest.”
And I replied, “ All right! ”
It may ha ve been a trifle brusque
Of me to say “All right! ”
But if she felt herself aggrieved
And said, “ I should have thought - ”
Then, really, all that I can say
Is that she didn't ought
It may not be good grammar, but
She really did not ought.
Brief Mention.
Anagram—Australia, Salutaria.
A base-ball game—Bawnbroking.
Base bawlers—the N.S.W. Legislature.
Execution by electricity—Electrothanatoa.
When ghosts walk it is probably for
exorcise.
‘‘John Bull” Is a misnomer. German
princes never milk bulls.
The inspector of Chinese in Sydney is
Gordon, Chinese Gordon, we presume.
Just as no one ever saw a dead donkey,
so no one ever saw an inquest on a boroner.
A blood-horse is not. necessarily a good
gore.—Choice Sample of English Humour.
It is dangerous to bo an unpopular politi-
cian in South Africa. One is apt to get pelted
with stale os!rich eggs.
The great Prospect water-dam, which sup-
plies Sydney, is reported to be bursting up. This
is a dam fine Prospect.
A Murkan judge has decided that a man
who is assailed with rotten eggs is justified in
shooting with intent to kill.
It has been suggested that Alfred should
secure the grampus recently captured at Wollon-
gong to blow about his circulation.
Chop logic. The lunatics in N.S.W. play
cricket; all the people in N.S.W. play cricket;
eryo, all the people in N.S.W. are lunatics.
A Melbourne syndicate has purchased
Waiwera Hot Springs, N.Z. Not the only Mel-
bourne syndicate which is in hot water just now.
One Onyons has been arrested in connec-
tion with the robbery of bonds from the National
ALFRED \TyPMEy-
v LUn»mon • •••''
A CONUNDRUM.
What is the difference between the Bishop of Melbourne and the Bishop of
Sydney?
Answer:-One is Goe and the other is going. Yes, Alfred, who has married a
wife, must therefore go to Hingland.
P.S. —Take a day off and think this over.
Bank, Melbourne, The police got on bo his scent
at once.
The Manly paper speaks of “ the magnifi-
cent collection of sharks ” at the local aquarium.
It is suspected that that paper is edited by an
attorney.
An American lady named Rachel Still-
wagon has, we read, just celebrated her 104th
birthday. She is said to have all her faculties
about her, and her tongue is Stillwagon.
A member of the Salvation Army has had
a tooth extracted without inhaling gas in order to
give the Is Gd. saved thereby to the fund. Shoo !
No member of the Harmy requires to inhale
“ gas.”
In a recent suit in the N.S.W. Supreme
Court, Judge Innes innocently drew attention to
the fact that the costs in an action then before
him amounted to more than the value of the
disputed freehold.
A N.Y. inventor purposes converting
corpses into paper-weights by a new system of
scientific compression. Several Sydney editors
whom we know need to be treated thus in order
to give their papers weight,
Krishmish has come. Extracts from the
report of last meeting of the Yea (Vic ) Shire
Council: —
“ Yah 1 you our ! You are now speaking to the man in
the moon.” “It is false as hell—infamous lies.” “I’ll
checkmate you—you miserable object.” “ You are get-
ting all the hair off your head.” “You are a fraud.”
“No, you dirty our.” “Sweep calls out sweep, and bad
women bad women, and you are a sweep.”
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street, North, Sydney, Dec. 26, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
This is the season of the year when Bridget Muldoon
informs her mistress that her dear father, Mr. Muldoon, is
seriously ill, and that her mother is very sick indeed, and
that her married sister is extremely unwell and has asked
her (Bridget) to go and stay a few days with her until the
eleven doctors who are attending her certify that she is
out of danger. Everybody knows that part of the story,
but here is a part of the story which everybody does not
yet know. Miss Muldoon, with the sky blue hat and the
yellow feather, and Miss Ryan, with the pink dress and
the scarlet bonnet, and Miss O’Hooligan, with the green
bonnet and the cream jersey and the scarlet skirt and the
yellow boots, are now all members of a Club. At Christ-
mas or any other festive and timely occasion which may
be selected, they abandon their places simultaneo osly,
leaving “the missus” in the lurch. Then five or six of
them combine and take a furnished suburban house for a
month or two, and send out nice little patchouli scented
pink notes with goffered edges to Mr. De Vere Brown and
Mr. Reginald Jones, and soon, “ requesting the pleasure of
their company at a little music on Friday evening,
R S.V.P.” That is the yerylatest.
During Melbourne Exhibition dozens of Sydney ser-
vant girls have been given situations in Melbourne at £1
a week, their fare being paid flrst-olass to Melbourne.
One young lady from South-western Ireland, on being
offered a passage by a coasting-boat, indignantly repu-
diated the suggestion, and said she would either go by
the mail-train or the mail-boat; whereupon she got pas-
sage per P. and O.
Dear Miss Smith,—Much has been said of Bridget and
Mary Jane, generally disparagingly. It has fallen to me
to conduct the correspondence of a lady cook, whose con-
duct has caused war to the out between two squatteresses,
and I think that of the three ladies, cooky is most to be
pitied. Sarah was sent up by a Registry Marm to be
cook for Mra. Muddle, but found there was a jackeroo
washing to be done, besides cleaning the boots of a Ger
man stock-overseer, minding a baby, and other trifles,
eluding barking at swagmen. Bub Mrs. Qoodwife,
miles off, wanted a cook and wrote an offer to Sarah. The
latter (as per plot) slipped out of the house at 9 p.m.,
got on the coach half-a-mile from home, and oooked Mrs
G.’s breakfast next morning. Muddle and the Deutscher
cowman dragged the dam next day and scoured ihe
jungles, hoping to find at least the remains of Sally.
They knew she had not gone in the mail, because she got
coffee (her mate, the house-slavey, was in the conspiracy)
at lo p.m. Here let me ask what sorb of people want
cooks to get oeffee at midnight and men’s breakfasts at
5 a.m.? Then Lady Muddle drove over to consult Game
Goodwife ; but recognising Sarah at the back-door ehe
passed on to a bush shanty and had a glass of pepper-
mint. The Muddles and Goodwifes don’t play lawn-
tennis together now, and Mrs. M. has offered Mrs. G.’s
housemaid a rise of £lO a year it she deserts.—Yours, as
ever, Scotty tub Wrinrlrr.
Adorable Sappho,—Here is a wrinkle lor the blase
matron or languid maiden of N.S.W., that may assist
them to dissipate the tedium of -the hot season: There is
a “person” (female) in Wellington (N.Z.) to whom
sassiety openeth not its pearly gates, and who —being of
an excessively brindled disposition and of a “ gentility
purely imaginary—refuseth to knock at the mother-’o-
pearl doors of the honest publioanesses and tradesmen’s
wives, her equal. Thus thrown on their own resources
Mrs. Yere de Vere Buggins and her daughter, Clara
Vere de Vere 8., still manage to get considerable
exhilaration out of existence. Their chief claim to
be considered genteel reposes on the fact that they
in a land where the species are scarce—keep one unhappy
slavey. They seldom, however, keep her more than
three weeks, and infrequently have to pay her—and that’s
where the exhilaration comes in. The girls are hired on
monthly payments. When the magenta-tressed immi-
grant has been three weeks in the house, the boss female
arises in the stilly watches of the night and stalks weirdly
in white to Bridget's door, throws it open, and delivers
three emphatic sniffs—merely sniffs, and nothing more—
then goes away again, silent and mysterious as the sphynx.
If the Connaught cow-catcher stands three nights of this,
Clara joins her ma, they both glide to the servant’s door,
sniff in concert, and glide away. Years of experience have
demonstrated that the hardest-headed and soundest-sleep-
ing slavey cannot stand this unique discipline. On the
fourth morning, for sure, Bridget goes, forfeiting her
wages, and Jemima Ann comes. After a year or so of un-
intermittent sniffing every oppressed daughter of Brin
knows the place and shuns it like a plague. Whereupon
Mrs. and Miss Vere de Vere Huggins hire an ill-favoured
and ancient charwoman to mix the old man’s bran-mashes
and flit to some Melbourne or Sydney hash-house, “ for
the benefit of their health,” until a new array of immi-
grants sit by the stiles of the Empire City, when they re-
turn and the pastime proceedeth. -Yours, Ovi.
The blood of (let us say) the Browns will tell. The
latest escapade of an already well-advertised married
woman of Sydney, who is now said to have eloped with
one of the numerous objects of her affection—and what
an object he is [—should make people talk both here and
in Hinglatd,
The pretty Miss Ada Greer, who was lately married
at Gleb a Feint to Mr. Buekland, ij the great-grand-
daughter of the Rev. Mr. Heory, who was a missionary at
Tahiti before the year 1800.
It says in the papers that a Melbourne lady, who was
engaged to be married, took a dose of poison in mistake
for medicine on the eve of her wedding. She had quite
recovered next day, however, and if fhe bridegroom
thought he was going to get off the ceremony he made a
hideous mistake.
I hear that an English dude who has been “ doing the
colonies ’ was induced, while at Rockhampton, to take a
ticket in a rattle for a racehorse. The night of the raffle
came, and the gentleman, being unable to attend, some
one threw on his behalf and won the horse for him. Nexj
day as the Englishman was placidly meandering ronnd he
was informed of his luck, and went down to the hotel to
inquire further into the matter. He found that he had
won the horse ; he also found that he had to pay £2 to
get it buried. The demand for that two pounds was the
only thing that disturbed his equanimity while he was in
Australia.
At last week’s Anglican Synod, in Sydney, it was pro-
posed to give women votes in church-matters. The
motion was rejected. Dr. Corletts argued that in a
matter of ritual young ladies might go to a meeting to
outvote their “ papas,” or a woman might vote contrary
to her husband. It strikes poor, unsanctifled me that
what the clergy really fear is that their own wives and
daughters would vote against them.
I hear that In a township in Western N.S.W. recently
an eighty-four-year-old clergyman, who is still jolly if not
go vigorous as of yore, took unto himself as a second wife
a maid who has seen the summers of half a century pass ;
and farther novelty was added to the event by the bride-
groom's 30-years-old son (who is also a clergyman) per-
forming the ceremony. In the same town, a little while
ago, an old lady, aged eighty-seven, contracted a similar
alliance with a bridegroom who has also passed the
allotted span of life.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Something New In Sewing Machines.
TEE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WH AT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT.
fTlHE restless march of invention has enabled
us to bring before the public improvements
of immense value, to some short account of which
we beg your attention for a few moments. Our
calling is to relieve the home-mother of all that
may weary her in sewing, and to make the same
throughout, a pleasure. That we have during the
last seven years succeeded in so doing, scores of
thousands will testify. And to-day we are supply-
ing a machine whose range of work is absolutely
complete, transcending the hopes and dreams of
years. The construction and form are such as to
place it altogether above and beyond competition,
or the truth of which assertions, as of the follow-
ng, we humbly request that your own eyes may
be the judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500, The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
o the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
fu Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for blankets,
woollens, or other materials; you may do over-
casting or top-sewing—never before possible with
Sewing Machines—as fast as you can feed the
work. And, above all, you can make single barred
or double barred button holes and eyelet holes
with the most marvellous precision and perfection.
Herein, the fingers of the practised seamstress
cannot with the greatest expenditure of time and
about, produce work of similar quality. And
remember, the Machine-made button hole, in
addition to its beauty, is inherently far superior,
for each stitch is Locked. Button holes which
ought to embellish a garment, are often only a
disfigurement. Look at our samples and judge
the effect of fine work for yourself. By all means
have good work instead of bad, especially when
you can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it —we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the rising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow ,the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonder-
ful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all
clicking sounds having been obviated. As is well
known, a good test of the finish of any mechanism
is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING, —In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
OHRIS T M A 8 HOLIDAYS.
M~ EIiACHRINO I
I
This world-renowned Egyptian Cigarette is
made from the finest Yknidge Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Largest Sale in the
World !
M. MELACHRINO & CO., Cairo,
And 21 Cockspur Strbbt, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal, British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
Leading Tobacconists in Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily. F resh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
ONDIAgU A K I 17 M.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Clift to Olifi
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is. | Children, Bd. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Under t ! e management of
Mr. BROUGH «nd Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of tne
Favourite Comedian
Mr, FRANK THORNTON.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
“THE PRIVATE SECRET V R Y.’
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.’
ADMISSIONS*., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr, JOE DAVIS.
IWTEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL.
-i-N Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
COMEDIANS, SINGERS, ACTORS, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Everything New, Original, and Repined.
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission-Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John O. Leete.
o
P E R A HOUSE.
CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
BOXING NIGHT, DECEMBER 26, 1888,
Mr. GEO. C. MILN,
In his.great impersonation of
DAMON "I
DAMON
DAMON
DAMON
DAMON J
IN
DAMON
ANH
PYTHIAS
Supported by
miss Maggie knight
And the
' M,ILN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Owing to previous arrangements and
Mr. GEO. C. MILN
Having to leave for New Zealand
HIS PRESENT SEASON
Cannot be Extended.
Box Plan at Messrs. Nicholson’s Music Ware-
house.
Prices : Dress Circle, ss. ; Stalls, 3s. ; Pit, Is.
Manager for Mr. Miln. .Mr. J. L. GOODMAN.
A L.
Theatre roy
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Immense Success of
MR. CHARLES WARNER,
supported by
A MOST POWERFUL
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION IN
HANDS ACROSS THE SEA.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts [at Mackay’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
Tremendous Success of
The Geand Cheistmas Pboduotion,
YOUTH YOUTH. YOUTH. YOUTH.
PRICES, 55,, 35., 25., Is,
Box Flan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
“ Physicians of all schools use and recommend Dr'
Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Test them.”
Uniform a specialty; coalily, fit and comfort, Modi
mao. " llv t*ir,am " 15* Hlnp-»6tao&. N*or»«w»
I. FREEHAH & SONS,
IMPOBTKBB
4BD
SiANUIAOTUBIBB
Orient Washing Powder.
HQQ \ CUSTARD POWDERS.
Extract of Soac. Soda Crystals.
SALAD 4 CASTOR OILS.
Batho’s Baking Powder. Orient Square Blue.
Blacking. Vinegar.
OURRY 6 PUDDING POWDERS?
SELF-RAISING FLOVR.
TOILET OILS, PERSIA! SIEESET,
fce.. ks.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
G A a
GAS. .GAS.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street. Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
JJIBBLE & COMPANY,
SIGN WRITERS
AND
—-ART ++ DECORATORS
!)(> Casllertagli Street,
SYDNEY.
VTOETH SHOEE LAND
FOR S-A.IL. EL
A. HARNETT, Junk., & GO ,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BITGRBOARH BUGGIES
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. E. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Bog go
Road. Brisbane (South).
ẁ
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Paebamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Oomb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements,
>IM MAM given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brradalban*
SiU UUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
BRITTENBERG & CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wyntard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors Olor graphs and Mouldings.
m
ẃ
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Marie Roze.
Biagoul Seas Corset
Will not in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless Imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Oorsetstamped “ Y&NPatent
118 ” In oval.
ial seam Corset, No. 116,” In oval.
Three Bold Medals!l
Sold by all Drapers and Ladles' Outfitters
PATENT
Premier Parkea, In deciding to hang a
woman for murder just as he would hang a man,
is logical enough. He favours the extension of
the franchise to women. If women are to have
political privileges they must have political disa-
bilities —they must take “ the thick with the
thin.” If they are privileged to stand on the
hustings they must also take their turn on the
gallows. Both platforms or neither— that is the
situation. After all we don’t know whether it is
not a privilege to be hanged in Sydney in January,
The weather is so awful between that time and
the end of March that really one has only two
alternatives— emigration or death, and emigration
from gaol is out of the question.
“Mr Tailor," 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him tlnlta to Inaaarirp R»
If
KWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS.
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Mandiaotobt :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB,
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbino and O’Connell Stbbbto.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbino Stbbbts.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobh, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Copboaed
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB.
O’Connell and Spbino STBBsae.
ẅ
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Oomplet e
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
w
Canvas folding
OOTS, for camping
out). A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10a. fid.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. fid. j
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
ŵ
FATE3ST
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
186 feet of hanging apace
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
ẁ
OANYAS0 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O’Oonnbli, Stbbbtb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Ruatlo
Cast iron Standards, 14a. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19b. Verandah Chair*
Indian Lonq-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12a.
6d., etc.; spec’ - "xtra quality, Newton
and Lamb, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Bates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, be.
»Uo Spiral Spring, from 14s. mtk.
NEWTON *nd LAMB,


rjIHE BEST XMAS PUBLICATIONS
“Socialities, 1888.”
Centennial Number.
ONE SHILLING; post. Is. 3d.
A charming Illustrated Work by the First Comic
Artists. 150 capital Woodcuts, numerous columns
of Humorous Letterpress ; also,
"MELBOURNE PUNCH" ALMANAC,
Centennial Number.
SIXPENCE ; post, Sevenpence.
No breakfast table is complete without a copy ol
this justly popular work. Laugh and grow fat 1
You cannot enjoy life if your digestive organs are
out of order. Punch’s Almanac promotes good
digestion. It laughs away all the ills that flesh is
heir to. Illustrated throughout its numerous pages.
MT All Booksellers and ALEX. 9THINLET A CO.,
51 Hunter Street, SYDNEY-
JUST PUBLISHED.
" THE BULLETIN'S 1 '
History of Botany |Bay,
Bt Abthub GATLt.
m PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED R|
BT
Thu Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L, Hopkins and Phil- May-
Peiob ■ ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, la. Bd. (except Queensland).
ALL AGBMTg.
THE
Sjdnsj ul Proraciil lui aid Building Co„
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £57,460.
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £39,987-
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK, —Withdraw without notice
Interest, 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. 6d, a week.
How to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager,
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE. LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kinds of confidential enquiries instituted
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The test in the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mis Sillsibi i Co..
231 CLARENCE STREET.
DOWS
m
HENRT ,
Portraitist and Landscape Photographer.
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Between General Post Office and Hunter Street.
HAS in Stock and is prepared to supply High-class Photographs of Sydney—its Streets and
Public Buildings, Botanical and Zoological Gardens, “Our Beautiful Harbour,” and
National Art Gallery, Blue Mountains and Jenolan Caves, Hawkesbury and Nepean Rivers,
Aboriginal Studies, &c., &c. ; Principal Yachting, Sailing, and Harbour Craft and Ocean Steamships
visiting this Port. ,
Standard Scries—Sl*e, 81n. by Oln.—Price, 18s. per do*.
The Views are kept in Stock unmounted, and can be made up in Album Form at Short Notice.
<3T Orders Forwarded by Post, securely packed on rollers, on Receipt of Remittance,
X : X ; X
CATALOGUES FORWARDED ON APPLICATION.
Recipient of the Highest Awards Melbourne Exhibition, 1888; Sydney
Centennial Intercolonial Exhibition, 1888 ; &c, &c.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH UIUL, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
rpHIS Magnificent Hotel ia now open,
-L and will be conducted on the beat
methods of similar American and Euro-
pean establishments.
It ia centrally situated, ia built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J, ROWAN, Manager.
ẃ
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
§ HOTEL,
LAUKCESTOH, TASMANIA.
\'. v\ Vi i
*t r f
\ '
ti'tt
m
1
v
II
W
Hoy?
vA,otueusi:.. 5
HXJ
w
-,■■ • ri--,.
~~ V T
5M.2I‘ j
MB
OXSISItf SuHMUA Eft. -! RiUttS*S»- .mills*
A. PHJSirtl
Pr*prt»t*ri
ZEIOTTSE,
Wises, French Liquors & Emma Cigars a Speciality 0, Some. Csisine Fraceaiee,
JOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else,
the principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS,
now so famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed-
I remain, vonrs, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a v ell-known
citizen:
Statutory Declarations.
“I, Grorge Hkwett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows .
“That 1 feel it) a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been (-offering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE S BITTERS a day in a lib.lo water, and
I hope others snfft nng from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ *l5 Pitt-street.
BOW’S STEANE’S WINE
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when buffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly in vented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the oavings of nature and ere a e a d« she for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and 00.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned :
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them,
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
M Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS.
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTJ RS.
ROWS YOULL DO B-T'JERS.
ROWS ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Pbopeietoes,
Edward Row & Company,
46, (7 GEORGE STREET,
iy.DNIY.
“A Radiant Memory!”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Now that the violet grows,
And long, cool grasses wave
Where thou hast found repose
In seme secluded grave,
1 rray untroubled dwell
On that brief early dream
My heart recalls so well,
f .cugh years have come between.
U a veil, O shadowy Past,
Vod let one golden beam
O- light from thee at last
Up.m the Present gleam.
B I ue J, when I will,
Tn<>n in my thoughts may’st be,
And I my heart can still
With bright pure dreams of thee.
Forrow and sin belong
To life —but that has fled,
It cannot be a wrong
To love the quiet dead !
P« rchanca thou knowest now
That I am faithful yet
In spirit to the vow
Thou saidst I should forget.
Though we were made to part,
It was no fault of mine,
And my rebellious heart
Has owned no love but thine.
Pure as the stars’ pale light,
Tender as sunset’s gleam,
Changeless through day and night
That love for thee has been.
Dearest, I will not weep
One idle tear for thee —
Rest in unbroken sleep
A radiant memory.
BASIL MORRIS.
The London Times is printed with new
type every day, but most of its ideas are 100 years
old at least.
A Melbourne small boy, only 11, has been
committed to a reformatory for stealing a horse
from a local saveloy-man. This is rough on a
sensitive youth, who, probably, only wished to
save the poor animal’s life.
A new journal has just made its appear-
ance at Tumut, N.S.W., and in its introductory
article virtuously declines to “slang-whang its
older contemporary.” After this we strongly
advice the Government meteorologist to keep his
eye skinned for indications of the millennium.
According to a large number of learned
geologists, Europe west of the Rhine is steadily
sinking into the sea, and if the process only lasts
long enough the strained relations between France
and Germany will ultimately adjust themselves
by the disappearance of one of the parties to the
dispute beneath the blue Atlantic. A congress of
erudite professors is now sitting on this
question at Salzburg, and the membere
have accomplished a large number of elaborate
calculations to show how fast the unlucky country
is going down and where it is probably going to,
but so far the researches of the brainy gather intr
have resulted in no coherent plan for holding up
the collapsing republic, and nobody has anything
to suggest. If France is sinking the congress
can’t do anything but stand aside and watch it
sink, and they intend to do that judiciously and
wait results.
The meanest man has come bo the surface
at last; his name is M Sweeney, and he distances
all competitors with easy grace. One day recently
Mac. was strolling pensively by the pellucid
Yarra, communing with Nature, and inhaling the
strong ozone, when his attention was attracted by
a passing body floating gaily down stream. Mr.
M ‘Sweeney, being a bit of a sportsman, hastily
procured a crooked stick and bobbed for the
found-drowned. By artistic manipulation of the
rod he soon succeeded in landing his prize, and
was extremely surprised to discover that he had
hooked his own brother. The body was formally
handed over to the constituted authorities, and in
the course of a day or two was duly inquested,
the deceased’s brother appearing as witness-in-
chief. When a verdict in accordance with things
in general was returned, the bereaved relative up-
rose in his place, and, tearfully addressing the
coroner, requested the ten shillings that was due
to him as the discoverer of a stray corpse. ' He
did not get the cash, but has secured the reputa-
tion of being the meanest cuss that has appeared
in print up to date.


l: r Business Announcements.
»sr THH OISTL-Sr 1»
UUSIC&L IHSTEUMENT
Direct Supply Association!
858 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes
Organ Concertina, in wood box ...
355,
50s,
21s.
' > (j' Q Cgi G) O . »
A
O
The finest show of AOOORDEUNS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. fid. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel ~ ~ ... 355. Od.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and bxtba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Me Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
EDI! ILH STBS
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6 1
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
hitti, Cello, Viola Double Bass, Sarp
Mar, Do., Do,
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
S/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 16/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
6, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 IP/-.
B, 6or 7 ii ii ii Mh
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of abo
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. Ii i
Bailments packed carefully and sent to any part c J
the'Colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN, Manager
®5B Goorga Street,
SYDNEY,
Phil. Robinson is lecturing in N.Z.
A yachting-party was devoured, the other
day, by sharks. The sharks are believed to have
greatly enjoyed the party, and considered it was
the nicest one they had ever been at in all their
lives.
A Lovblt and Dblicatb Complbxion.— -This Is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydob, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a uon-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Post, Olarel, Hook, Sherry, Ronalllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 George-etreet, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street,*
mmm
F C
111—I ■
R
LEY
&
%
%
o
O
sK
<c
<3
<e>
*
A
5?
«
o
V
S
9
&
0
,v
£
o
K \
r\
&
V
O
S'
0
S>
*
o
a
S'
&
<6
i\
o
c>
5c
%
S'
*
<b
O
<c N
!v
v
<s
*
,v
.0
4
*
©
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY
A British scientist is making a considerable
racket in the press about a toad 30,000 years old,
which was recently found, still alive, in a clay bed
on the site of a new railway-cutting. For Our
own part we never could see the use of a wOrn-out,
blase, second-hand reptile of that description, and
even a bran-new toad in first-class working order
and guaranteed perffectly sound never agitated us
to such a degree that we felt we must write to the
papers about it or bust. The average British
scientist seems to be fast getting into his second
childhood.
William’s Australian Inseotlcid Is death to all iueoti.
Simple In application—sure in efleot. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Fharmaoeutloal Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and K. Prosser & Co.*
K.
X
o
ii+
s
s
T
o
U
T
/Agents,
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
3&J Bafwvck Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
10. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STONET.
• I
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce,
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Teas.
Indents are Executed on the most Favourable Terms.
Tcaa.es’ 3,
—<— FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FAH LEI EH, NEITHEIM & Co., Taws and Leather Merchants,
16 V 0 R K STitE E I, SYDN E Y.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland. ——
o
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all Details, including Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special Lines : PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanners Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms.
DR. RICHARDS.
Tliis eminent Specialist, Founder, and Ghltf
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a lift-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
Who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he ha*
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
* BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private os
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case ha*
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
ijd courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
•pared questions, which will, in ail propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
eases since coming to Australia, and has permit-
slon from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
1 Bpr ing Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention ihis paper when writing,
CONSULTATION Fit EE.
D? RICHARDS
DISEASES.
YOUNG MEN
SEND
POLITENESS ON THE ELEVATOR.
MISS AUGUSTA MAYNE (to Pat Chogue , who has just tendered her his seat): You have
my sincere thanks, sir!
PAT CHOGUE : Not at all, mum; not at all. It’s a dooty we owe to the sect. Some
folks only does it phen a lass be pretty; but I says, says I; “the sect, Pat,”
says I; “not the individool!”


Business Announcements
BRUSTTO ITS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Orb be obtained ihronghont New Sontk Walca,
Queensland, and Ylatorla»
SYDNEY M M w 84 Pits Bxini.
BRISBANE... ... „.Edwabd Stbibs
MELBOURNE - Bfbbobb Sbbbbb
E PP S’ S
Grateful—-Comforting
COCOA
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
She Greatest Success \
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Kr, I. E, EIISELMH, Comltimr Eclectic,
Skills!) Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
ft WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (prbb) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
na ßea/ the following Testimonial, one of thousands more i
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886
to H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced. to expectorate blood and matter very freely. 1
then thought ft was time to consult a medical man, and 1
went into Heathoote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last IB months was poison.
1 then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Dungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month 1 was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
akin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very Djat.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entity left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. B.
KNIGHT. Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this Bth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tar All Consultations Free. "II
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred m the event of Curb
KOT BRING EFFBCTBD.
T
0 S UFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASES.
THEY Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE,
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
N .B.—Medicines fonvarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address ;
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary,
133 Elisabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
PUgg PBBSOBIPTIONS are to
I iIIEIE be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of
his book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny
stamps. Address—
S. WARD & 00»,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hnnter Street Sydney.
Mope for the Deaf.- Nicholson’s Patbntbu Art
cal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness In all its stages. The
tost astonishing cures have been effected. Send for IZI
rged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,'
ustratlons of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
om Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, etc., who have 1 ees
ired by these Drams, and wha recommend them.—Dt
[QHOLBON, 8f WILLUU B****e.
Cl- lE3 -A- 3IT E> t HOTEL,
OOBNEB OB
i3T ■ MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSCKOVK
m
m,
*«nr
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D* COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) Proprietress.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR
-! : }-
FOR PRIVATE USE is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
10s. (id. ; or a Pair of Razors in sbroner Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AP KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
—— Nine Haircubters always Employed !
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Parson’s
G-rape
Ssf alias.©.
TRADE MARK—“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from RIFE FRUIT, and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A nrevenbative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness,
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND,
Agents: ___
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY,
iRAON'S GRAPE A LIRE.
IriKins
Cm
m
mmmm
UC
hi eemequence ®f TME WOMCE&TEMSMIMM
SA&CS' which *n e<dmMted‘m dsmm iks FssUfc, Lm md Fsmm
have H request 'SheS SBS ihM iki W ksMil
fmrs Sheir Sigmhfrs
‘ wtikmfi whisk'm ssiik §f tike migSmd WOM€MSTMMSSIEM.
SAUCE is gmwim-
A■■- > Ar£od end FER&MNtOF <Ss me, mtsd m Mmm m Ltiei, MeOk <m#
Stopper. ■ Wholesale end fur Expert hy the FrsfrMsrs, Wkmeterj Cruse em*
■ Sfaefivtgll, Lmdm,&e a , #*£,£ <md hy <Bvmevs m*d Oilmm me W«rM*
PHOTOGRAPHY !
■
LICHTNER & CO.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
Cordially acknowledge the satisfactory relationship which has been established between
them and the Photographers of Australia, and so largely extended daring the past
Twelve Months. It will be no fault of theirs if the
COMPLIMENTS of the present HOLIDAY SEASON
are not continued throughout the coming year. They
have now issued a New and Comprehensive Cata-
logue, profusely illustrated, and ask all old friends
to send for one, whilst extending the same invitation
to those we have not yet had the pleasure of meeting.
;++:
A visit to our Establishment will give proof that
we have the Largest and Best Assorted Stock in
the Colonies at Reasonable Prices.
w
LICJ3TNER & CO.,
[
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Assurance Companies.
T
HB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAUS*
ÜBNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
ttUKiontnd by Act of Parliament, IT Vie,,
No. 10.)
Registered Capital
Paid-up and Subscribed ... ™ «B,iie
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLAOKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company reoelves deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years _ 7 per cent.
For 6 months i per cent.
For 1 yeu ~ B per oenS.
For S month* _ B per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
bolder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, ari
granted for Deposits of three years and upward!.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-dlvlded and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Haao Offfioi—li, &IS HUNTER STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
limited.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1111.
CAPITAL, £510.169.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS.
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices —10, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted dally.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS I
8 months, 6 per cent.
6 ii 7 ~
H .. 8 ..
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of IS month
per cent, i months per cent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1J per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
Bulneu AnMuecnenti,
M T « fl P H AUSTRALIAN
ft *4» 4 Christmas Carl Series.
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is, Id.
THE MOST AUTISTIC SERIES PUBLISHED.
H. King, Photographer, 310 George St., Sydney,
BKTWKBN G.P.O. AND HUNTER STRBBTS.
TATTERSALL'B
IfllTH COKSOLTI7IOII
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year, For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall's," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS-
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(i few doors front G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivera. Apply,
Bsuint 093«5


BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the be it Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Soiatloa Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &o. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable !» broken
knees, outs, &0., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Boaisto’s *• Parrot" brand, and
avoid Imitations, which can only iead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Boslsto’s 11 Parrot ’ rand.
READ
WHAT THE LEADING
DOCTORS AND CHEMISTS SAY.
“No Medicine introduced to the public
has ever met with the success accorded
to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
It stands to-day the best known curative
article in the world It is famous by reason
of its inherent virtues. It does all that is
claimed for it."
“ Gentlemen, —No medicine has one-half
the sale and gives such universal satisfaction
as your American Hop Bitters. As several re-
markable cures have been made here, there
are any number of advocates for y our raedi •
cine.”
“I have constantly used American Hop
Bitters for the past four years in cases of
digestion, debility, weakness, and in ab
diseases caused by poor and bad ventilation,
want of air and exercise, over-work, and loss
of appetite, with the most perfect success. ’
“ The greatest nourishing tonic, appetizer,
strengthen©! 1 . and curative known to the
medical profession is Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters."
“For all cases of diseases of the liver t
stomach, bowels, or kidneys, 1 daily recom-
mend the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.’’,
“ In my practice I am constantly prescrib-
ing your Hop Bitters, and have found eveiy
case relieved by their use.”
“ 1 can heartily recommend the use of Dr.
Soule's American Hop Bitters.’’
“ Gentlemen. —Your medicine will cure
when all other remedies fail.”
CAUTION.—See that each bottle
has genuine label, bunch of green
hops on white paper.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller, Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good and the price very low.
Bv Authority ;
BEADY IN JANUARY,
Demy Bvo , cloth, 650 pages, illustrated with Maps, Portraits,
and Sketches. [Price, 10s. 6d., including postage.]
Volume I of
11 THE HISMT OF NEW SOUTH WALES,"
Prom the Records :
By G. B. Barton, of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-law.
This volume will contain the History of New South Wales
from 1785 to 1789, founded on the letters and despatches
written by Governor Phillip during that time, and many other
records of great historical interest, never before published,
which have recently been obtained from the Public Record
Office in London, the Record Office In Sydney, the collections
of Sir Joseph Banks and others, &c , &c.
CHARLES PATTER,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 21st December, 1888,
THE WOLSELEY SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE.
PASTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTS:
T, S- G-ESSES Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.
d
vrw mxsm TABLE SHOW ROOMS St FACTORY,
MLMABE. SUSHIONSs, &o. 9 MADE ON THE : PREMISES.
ildf\Tafel©s refitted by our own men,
stocks.- fiSICKET, LAWN TENNIS As BOWM
BURROUGHES & WATTS.
f. attw George, Street SYDNEY, H.8.W., Hi Sobe Squaw, UNDOft
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
snSstts Midi wand teeth, perfect freedom from decay, * healthy action of the gvms, and dellgHt-
•SsllSy fragrant breath can bast. b» oStai®# by diaaardfe* /rf*tsr tooth iw»wd«w ®ss *«i4 WMSar
. -®£ rasing d*Uf _
ftowland^
Odonto
ic oentlMee, * whine pcwier composed of the mcit rechercn* Sajaedlests of the Oriental
tbsrhel, and war ranted free, from any gritty or deleterious ingredients ;lt whitens and pmeraß
iSi® teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurry, strengthens the gums, said give* ©
classing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exerciser
ijdgbly beneficial Influence on the teeth and gums. Aid Dentists allow that neither washes ®r
Mates can possibly be as efficacious forpolishlng the teeth and pravoattog decay m ® iggro p®®
-gritty tooth powder; such BOUAHOfi' OSK3>HTOJ*m mtots SawM,
Ho other'Odonto to geaiMaa
ASWLANDS’ MACASSAi ill. fis 3&Q £»Mi % ft golte ®siO®E §m
Efcte and golden-haired people and cMMieau
KALYDOR
attn soft, smooth
•itec Samßom, ®m
Wholesale » nd Retail Agenti—Uaiiow Bbos., wd V. Pbosbbb A OoSydoer.
tosaatlto the i
aM Msato,
omptalom, eradicates ail eetaMeM
Atk saywharo lor mWItAMm
ayrtfl rirasAnss 22x8 iMtettsab
ROWLANDS 8
Affects, and renders the
articles, of X). Fatten (fa.
Oa the occasion of some strong language
between “ Don’t - you - feel - well,- young - man,”
Smith and J. D. Wood, in the Victorian
Assembly, the former “smacked the jaw ” of the
latter, when Dick Ireland rushed into the lobby
and, seizing hold of the first policeman he met,
desired him to rush in and collar the offender,
adding, “I, the Attorney-General, order you.”
The policeman, however, knew a trick worth two
of that and declined, adding that the Speaker
might see fit to ordher him into the coalhole for
the presumption. This brings to mind a little
bit of experience by Sir Alfred Stephen, and
told by himself. He was on circuit many
years ago attended as usual by a policeman as
orderly. At a bush town hotel where the Judge
rested, or tried to rest, for the night, the din in
the bar rose to a tumult and finally to a riot. Sir
Alfred says he came down in his pyj amas to see
into it and found his own personal bobby calmly
surveying the scene. The awful presence of the
learned judge didn’t stop the row, and he desired
the policeman to clear the bar. “ I daren’t do it,
your honor, not even on your order. The landlord
is the only man that can order me to do that,” and
as the landlord was c fining money over the fun,
he did not “order ” the PC. to clear the bar, and
then Sir Alfred retired to his room discovering
for the first time that there were places where his
authority went for naught.
Several perils threaten the guileless tourist
visiting Wellington (N.Z ). Tnat being the seat
of government, he risks bashing out nis brains
against a senator —there is no danger of the sena-
tor’s brains. Or the visitor may collide with a
parson—though the Wellington doxologizer is a
full-fed, rotund institution unlikely to dislocate
anything that fouls it. If the voyager dodges
these and does not wreck on the publics that fill
every corner —and Wellington is all corners —he
will probably hurt himself against one of the mul-
titudinous holiness-houses growing in all the
spaces where pubs, haven’t yet had time to bloom.
But he won’t damage himself against the Free
Public Library or down in the Corporation
Baths. Neither exists. Your Wellingtonian
can gulp “ hell-fire whisky ” or jerk halle-
lujahs with any man, but he doesn’t bathe and he
doesn’t read- to any appreciable extent. A Sydney
visitor lately proposed to have a literary browsei a
the cool barn —seven-eighths auction-market and
balance reading-room—that the Wellington people,
fond of sonorousness, dub Athenseum, but a
frosted attendant with a blink immediately and
urgently invited the stranger to pirouette out
again on his little pink sea-shell of an ear. The
outer barbarian wrote complaining of this inhos-
pitality to the local leadin’ mornin’ jernil, and the
she-editor appended a foot-note to the letter, tell-
ing the visitor that if he desired to read the Wel-
lington papers he should pay the Athenteum sub-
scription. The female was naturally surprised
that anyone should want to read her hashed
fashion-sheet. She should have made allowances
for an inexperienced stranger, though.
A new specimen of the Civil servant has
been developed up North, and his downtrodden
brethren of Sydney, who toil from 9 to 5 and are
sassed by all sorts of Ministerial supporters into
the bargain, will hear of his doings with envy and
grief. While punctually drawing his screw from
the Civil Service this gentleman devotes his time
mostly to journalism. Whenever a politician
comes that way to make a long speech and gather
in a vote of confidence he is on hand, and when
the proceedings are over he writes a two-column
article setting forth that the orator is the
greatest fool who ever arrived in these parts,
and asking why he isn’t kicked. Generally he
calls him a bigamist into the bargain and
says that his aunt wasn’t legally married to his
uncle, and compares him to Judas and Barabbas,
and altogether he makes it lively for the travelling
legislator who comes within range of his powers of
speech. In addition to all these things he lately
horsewhipped a member of Parliament who
offended him by protesting against his choice
flowers of language—and even then he wasn’t
sacked. When the Estimates came on for con-
sideration a friend of the spanked senator
rose and moved that the salary of this par-
ticularly obstreperous Civil servant should be
reduced by 2s fid a week, and the motion received
so little notice that it dropped out of sight almost
as soon as uttered. Truly a change has come
over the spirit of the dream. If a Civil Servant
of that description resided in Sydney he would be
suspended and discharged and get 14 days
for assault, and then he would be hauled up before
the House and hanged, drawn, quartered and
bciled, and he would have pins stuck in him and
be lifted up by the hair. And yet in Queensland
he pursues his nefarious career, and doesn’t even
get half-a-crown taken off his salary.
The Ballarat Post has a soul-rending yarn
in a recent issue about a lady of only 22 summers,
and possessed of everything which is calculated to
gladden the heart of woman, who was driving
along a dusty road when she was seized by a
shark. She sank before a boat which had put off
from the shore could come to her assistance. In
another part of the same journal appears a hair-
elevating narrative about a sailor who got out on
the bowsprit and fell into the sea, and the horse
trod on him and dashed him against a telegraph-
pole, and then went away and left him lying
there. These two painful episodes, we presume,
have cast a gloom, and, though the Post doesn’t
say so, we expect that a strong party are now out
on the dusty road looking for the shark. No par-
ticulars are to hand as to the fate of the horse that
was out at sea under the bowsprit, but we trust
that it got ashore safely. The writer concludes
by stating that the uncle of the woman who was
taken by the shark in the middle of the road
was killed through a fall from his horse at
the same spot where the other man fell
off the bowsprit, but whether the horse had
also been on the bowsprit is left a matter for con-
jecture. If it was we are not surprised at the
uncle falling off, and unless the authorities at once
put a stop to the practice of having horses on
bowsprits further fatalities are likely to ensue.
The system is one which has no sense in it, for the
uses of a horse on a bowsprit are so limited as to
be practically nil, and the animal is liable at any
moment to catch cold from exposure, after which
it is only a question of time till he sneezes himself
into the great deep. The uncle who attempted
to ride him under such circumstances was guilty
of an act that we wouldn’t do unless we were paid for
it, and even then we would want the money in
advance, and it is doubtful if we would do it after
we had got the money either.
Here is a realistic sketch from the Surgical
Ward. “ Chloroform or ether, doctor ? ” “ Start
him with chloroform ”is the response. A hand-
kerchief moistened with the sickening sweet fluid
is placed to the patient’s nostrils. “ Long
breaths ! ” calls the surgeon, and the patient tries
to answer “All right ! ” but his voice seems to
him to step high, like the legs of a drunken man.
Now he hears an elevated train coming. It is run
by electricity. Its roads are of white light. Every
now and then it dashes past a station, when a bell
rings. He is rushed aboard and on they go, faster
and faster. The bells ring closer together.
“ Happy ? ” inquires the surgeon “ Ye-es, ”
answers the patient, with an effort. “ Happy ? ”
the surgeon asks again, and there is no answer,
. . . A blank, it may be of minutes, it may
be of hours, then softness, warmth,,comfort J He
is in the little country graveyard which he knew
when a boy. He is sitting by his own body there.
It is a sunny Summer afternoon. The birds are
singing. And he can smell the odor of the pines
as they stir in the breeze. Is this death ? Then
death is a pleasant experience after all. But
what is the nausea, the excruciating pain ? “ Spit
it out! ” urges some one in a fuendly tone. Spit
out what—death ? Ah, the pain ! and he is off
into blankness once more. A moment of quiver-
ing and again the balance strikes. This time he
half opens his eyes. “He’s playing ’possum,’”
whispers a doctor, and the patient resents the
irreverence of the remark. He is too fresh from
the graveyard vision to tolerate joking familiarity,
and, there !he may be dead after all! The pain
again, and the blank, not so blank as before !
There are scattering thoughts striving to assert
themselves. He recognizes them slowly, as a
child stammers when it reads. “ Yes —it is all
right—it is all right! ”he says to himself ; and
then, as if he saw it written in great capital
letters, the thought confronts him, “ This must
be COMING TO ! ”
According to Paris Figaro, which pro-
fesses to speak from official statistics, there are at
present in the department of the Seine alone five
men and seven women who have passed their
120dh birthday. Twelve such patriarchs among a
population of only 3,000,000 souls is an average
which could hardly be shown in any other part of
the world since the Methusalehs died out in the
land of Shinar, yet even this is not the best record
which France can produce. The prize fossil
of the country is a female wreck at Grenoble
who can bring forward reasonable evidence to show
that she was born 143 years ago, and though
this lady has one foot in the grave she keeps the
other on the earth’s surface with remarkable per-
sistency. In France the birthrate has sunk of
late years to an alarmingly low average, but if the
new generation hesitates a lot about being born
the old one is at least equally reticent about
dying. The average age of the French popula-
tion now living is over 32 years, being three years
more than that of any other nation and
eight years more than that of the average
American who, with the exception, possibly,
of the Australian, figures as the youngest
average individual on earth. If present con-
ditions are maintained a period must one day
arrive when France will be almost exclusively a
country of old men and old women and then-
well, it is hard to say what will follow. Australia,
so far, has not had time to rear a race of cen-
tenarians, and the undermining influences of
colonial beer are against her chances of winning
distinction in this respect. Those of her sons,
too, whose cast-iron digestive organs hold up
against beer get sunstroke while whooping
on racecourses, and those who escape from
the racecourses are trodden under foot at
champion sculling matches, so that she
has heavy odds against her, and her prospects,
on the whole, are not worth swearing by. If
Australia wants to possess a lot of men who were
born away back in the Dark Ages and un-
natural longevity is not due to the possession of a
Government pension and the desire to hang on
and collect it till the day after the Judgment, it
is evident she must start life afresh on a new
basis. Though, after all, it is difficult to imagine
what good the possession of a crowd of centena-
rians can do any country.
THE LEARNED CHIMPANZEF.
“There is in New York a chimpanzee which has been taught to
count.” —Daily Paper.
THE LOCAL COCKY BURNS (loq.) : “HA! MY ERUDITE MONKEY,
YOU SAY TWO AND TWO MAKE FOUR. YOU ARE
MISTAKEN. TWO AND TWO MAKE ELEVEN AT THE
VERY LEAST.”
