

FJR. F’S MALTED COCOA.
BANK
RMS.
A fiKAMATTA
Chahviuc
0\
b
13
ax
j'
0
o
S'
■X
r**5f
•* ■rr y
n
Ate
'aar
*2^>
a,.
£
<r
i^L*--^o.
f~
i
/6
r <?.
4\Qkr/rrsfiS//AM
Q
S<
\o
N'-C
Vf,
\
Ol
\
<*=>
\
<*=>
\
*
r*
o
*
ST/*
£***
77
f
,75 Acres ,
Cottage '
£JS deposit
balance /a JOuea/'s
BOYD
\2-n&
KING
Auc t/oneerh
Pamphlet, containing Photo. Views of this Property, sent Post
w to any Address by
«OYD & KING, Auctioneers
96 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
j. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney. .
« An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter. — Lancet.


Business Announcements.
wO&emcet factory. vcwtowr
Hotel.
OOLLINS-PLAOE, OOLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
#Mnlort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to, Night Porter, Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
c
0
*s
&V 45
*
a
so
SIRROGER
<o*
a
:
a
a
OIXSONS
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
208 to 269 Kent-etreet,
Sydney,
Hats always la STOCK tor
BALE bo the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J, BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T, GAYBNB
Schnapps and Geneva,
A, MELVIN and SONS’
WHnktnrh Dal* Ala
NODLTMS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
moi merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures all
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
md DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too' hearty eating, correct DIS>
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
It 1b possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, is. BA.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Business Announcements,
pATENT DIRECT ACTING
mwzmm pips,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Over Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by the Wcsttngbousc Brake
Company (limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & 00.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
R.
M, R I L 8 ¥
(latte of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADB, SYDNEY,
Abeoonden and wife deaerten traced, and all kind* of
confidential Inqnlrtei Inititnted. Evidence obtained In
dtvoroe, libel, band, and incendiary cate*, for the legal pro*
feuion and otbera. Oopiet of willt, certificate* of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bento and debt* collected. From B. HI. R.'i long experience
in the Deteotlve Force of New Sooth Wale*, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and eitabliahed agenclet In all parti of the
globe, he it in a poiltion to conduct all inquirie* with caution,
expedition and itricteat teorecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all bntlneu entroited to hit care.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS an to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE,” for the Speedy (hue of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o, A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny
Stamps. Address—
& WARD It CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
E CAN RECOMMEND
B* EUGENE’S
(Prom Paris)
Ladles' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE lIAIR,
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
QIJ'SUffICTSXhAJN’X?,,
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENT&
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. IJ. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland,
k mmiev ntim
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Dodoeeux, Achins Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR, SOUTH AM'S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days t
The Australian Remedy, No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s, 8d„ 5a., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the Bight, Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. L ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 OttorsiHMiree*, only.:
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
&
c
Co
x>
IRONMONGERS
o
o
H
bvrculuhwb \
BotW Btralag KLacßiiLQ, kstoetffcos Ya\n\, issaa
KDKCTRO• PUAT KD WAKS, CUTUKR'Jt, TOOKB,
«A 8 COOKING STOVES t—LKONIB FLETCHER'S. JEANS A WALKfiK'B
l BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fco., *5O,
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS 11
SBDSE’S FLUID 11AGHESIL
II Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of B IS
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTA
(Fide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each bott
TAKE ONLY KRTJSjg^'
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each*
1$
Wholesale Agents, Messrs, ELLIOTTBBOSm^
s*
A POSITIVE CURE
for <mm farm of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
rfjsT 1
>
,
PIMPLES to SCROf
1 fMSMCURIN'© HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
-41/ tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
'vsaihsomc Sore*, and every specie* of Itching,
Gkaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofnlou*, and Syphi-
jjjttte Diseases o f the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
BdH» of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
OBMcuiu. Resolve xt, the new Blood Purifier,
IStternally, and OrmotraA and Ooticuba Soap, the
SjjtaKfe Skin Cure* and Beautifler*, externally,
Htofctnjr and Burning Skin Diseases,
Baker**, Barber*’, Orocer*’, Waeherwoman’* Itch,
Htehing Pile*, and Delicate Irritation* pecu'
a* both *exe», instantly relieved by a warm t
With Ootiouba Soap and a *ingle application of
©WKdEBA, the great Skin Cure. Thu repeated
Qsliy, with three do*e* of OtmctnsA Resolvent
Will apeedily cure Itching Disease* of the Skin anc
oealp, when all other mean* absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work cm the Skin,
iSdth Colored Plate*, 1* wrapped about the Re
Oolvxnt. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol
Oaahly sworn to before the British Consul, which
uapeat thi* *tory: I have been a terrible sufferer
3mt year* from Disease* of the- Skin and Blood;
Save been obliged to shun puDlic place* by reasor
Of toy dUfiguring humors; have had the best phy
□leian*; have spent hundred* of dollar*, and goi
a» relief until I used the Otmouju. Remedies.
abich have cured me, and left my *kin and blood
os pure a* a child’*. Send for our sixty-four page
&Mk, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Disease* ’’
Avbtraliak CoMHerntxa,
®. Town* A Co., Hew South Wale*.
pUTIOUKA EBSGDVB& &
V fler. Diuretics and Aperient,®" *rtdjr jj
and Perspiration of all WW^AWS.ie*'
SS3Sfai3sw»2S^
it cures permanently*
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys p'iljug
heal* Dicers, Sores, Djsclwr*
ore* the Hair, and
Cuticurii Soap . *n exquisif®
and Toilet Requisite, pr^t.-oU^Se* l
indispensable in treating Skin
mors, Shin Blemishes, Prickly
burn, and Bough, Chapped, or n'jy
"lm p»l fj tfi et ld e '
Ontlcnr* Bomedle* are if* it of gt <3*
Purifiers and Skin Beautifie** »/
arsenic, lead, zimc, or any 9 ts
table poison whatsoever. of m >
pure by the Analytical Cbenai*
Massachusetts. -'^d
For Sals by all retail c S®"?|aS&j
cli u ; ,Msts throughout Australl®** tjo<« *$JgA W 8
iScrfiaad. Cuticoua, 50 cents P .
fl. ju: Ootiouba Soap, 25
in® Soap, 15 cents; Curiou**
per bottle. J .|K'
Pkxpajued **
Potter Drag * Chemio*! C°"
FALLON'S GEORGE HOTEL
SHE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and
*%$W
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study, OPi
HalL Private Sitting "
Rooms without extra oharge.
promptly attended to.#* *l*'
GOOD STABLING AND
y. v
First-class Tables- ***
LOOSE BOX® 8 '
i. J. FALLON,
prop
ft*
to'


The Bulletin
Vcl. 9-ro. 445.
SATURDAY, AIIG UST 81, 18E8.
Price, 6fl.
A Musician from “Home”: Mr. Frederick H. Cowen.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not tvish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
She National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians,”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £i Q
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknotvledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
corrvmunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS. .
SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 1888.
The Coming Revolution.
In a dialogue on “ Political Optimism ” which
appeared in the August number of the Nine-
teenth Century just eight years ago, was
the following passage :
“We see that political systems in all progressive
societies tend towards socialistic democracy. We see
everywhere that it must come to that. We all of us fee'
this conviction—or all of us, I suppose, who have reflected
on the matter. We feel, too, that nothing we can do can
avert or possibly long delay the consummation. Then,
we must believe that the movement is being guided, or is
guiding itself, to happy issues.”
Laurence Gronlund, commenting on this
extract, points out that the present indus-
trial, _ social, and political system of Great
Britain is based on the manufacturing mono-
poly of England. With the encroachment
of other nations into a demesne for at least a
century peculiarly sacred to herself alone,
the industrial, social, and political structure,
which has bsen sung by poets, which has
given oratory a theme and which has in-
spired patriotism to yield life and substance
in its defence, must fall clattering to the
ground ; but from the debris the new social
order will be evolved, better adapted to
fulfil the demands of fresh conditions—
nobler, fairer, stronger and more beautiful
than the system which it will replace.
* * *
“ 'l 1 his,” says the man who has become ac-
customed to a close regard of his own cen-
tury, his own life, his own few years of active
warfare with the world, “this is sheer optim-
ism. It is a dream of Utopia.” Hold! Visions
have often proved prophetic. The un-
bounded extravagance of one age has been
the sober reality of another. Evolution is
not altogether a hypothesis, and history
tenders much evidence in support of Darwin.
“The records of our race are a series of
makings ready.” Capital, like Aaron’s ser-
pent, bids fair to swallow all else. It is a
terrible absorbent, and under existing con-
ditions nothing can check its growth. Along
the whole line of production, transportation"
exchange, and distribution, Concentration is
the one unmistakeable feature of modern
traffic. The Whiteleys of the earth, in
other places than Westbourne Grove, Lon-
don, are absorbing now the smaller amongst,
what would have been accounted in a past de-
cade the big firms. Wholesale trade is reduced
to one of the exact sciences— reduced, it is
elevated to the place of the highest among
the exact sciences, and the science is gastro-
nomic. Like the ostrich, wholesale trade
has become acrobatic in the art of swallow-
ing— and it swallows everything. In
America—aye, and Australia too, for that
matter-the little farm is not. The train
bowls for leagues along through the bonanza
estates which were once small holdings.
The emporium undersells the little shop
until its keeper is driven bankrupt and his
competition is no longer of consequence. In
every branch of trade Concentration is going
0n .5 Capital is slowly drifting into a single
pair of hands, and those people who manage
to suck nutrition from the golden stream on
its passage have the meagre satisfaction of
knowing that they are slightly better oft-
than the poor wretches who, faint with cold
and hunger, cannot approach its banks to
moisten their pallid lips.
* * •
The present industrial era is without paral-
lel in the history of the world. Never till
now did Plutocracy absolutely and actually
govern the whole earth. Never till now was
there ever such a thing as Capital. We do
not mean that there was no wealth, no
property, no luxury on the part of the rich,
no usurious interest ui the part of money-
brokers, no unjust taxaffon. We mean
that with the beginning of the present in-
dustrial era wealth was, fur the first time,
“ employed productively ’ in the spoliation
of crass by clas 5 *, “ with a view to profin by
the sale of produce.” For the first time in
the history of humanity Free Competition
has been used as a lever to increase the
profits of a distinct class of non toilers
known as Capitalists, who have extended its
use amongst themselves to dosrroy the op-
position of those small traders whose exist-
ence threatened the institution of Labour—
t.iat houseless, landless, foodless maj nity
whose being is held on sufferance of Capital
on condition of making the “profits” that
into the great gulf-stream if wealth
which is surging onwards from countless
myriads into a single pair of hands. We
say that the golden current will never reach
the owner cf thesehands—of a Midas of com-
merce beside whom Jay Could and Mackay
would appear but a 3 the veriest pigmies. A
great social movement has been running
parallel with it, gaining strength from year to
3 ear. The C oming Revolution is already here.
It began with the building of the first
facto y. Id generated spontaneously with
the first corner in wheat. Day by day
its flood coarse widen». Before Capital
reaches its un ; .t-desii rntion the Social Move-
ment will sweep over it with the strength of
a mighty inundation. No world would be
possible which contained the anomaly of a
single C ttaisus. The human theory or com-
ptomise could nob tolerate the veductio (id
abmrdnm of benevolence—“ The greatest
good of the smafiest possible number.”
* * *
Objectors to any change in the existing
condition of things fatuously exclaim: “It'
you divided all the wealth of the world to-
morrow and gave everyone an equal share,
it would in a few years be just like it is at
present. I ndoubtedly, but the objectors
err when they lay the blame on the back of
human nature. Selfishness is the unvarying
product of the fear of want, and the fear of
want will always influence men under a
system in which Free Competition is the
motive force of action. It is the sijdem
which is wrong, and no permanent ameiiora-
tion for the vast majority of humanity can
be hoped for until the system is altered.
There is no brotherhood between Capital
and Labour, any more than there is a
common interest between the vampire
and the sleeping Indian. Capital grows
by battening on the vitals of Labour.
Labour strives to maintain Ls integrity by
resisting the encroachments of Capital in the'
attempt to filch the results of the operations
of Labour on the sources of production. In
such a one-sided contest the weaker is bound
to go to the wall. Labour is engaged in an
unequal battle, for its enemy fights with
Libour’s own stored strength. Like Atlas
Labour is held aloft in the octopus <*■ rip of
its adversary and cannot touch that source of
all its vigour—the earth. Abolish this dis-
tinction between Capital and Labour, make
them one, and humanity’s future is straight-
way rosy with the dawn of a new hope. We
must abolish not a class but a system. The
establishment of statB co-operation, the
nationalisation of the land, the communisa-
tion of all the forces of production are the
planks of the new platform. And the men
of the present, generation must work to
this end or civilisation must perish from off
the face of the earth.
* * *
.A- f res h distribution of wealth with a con-
tinuance of the old conditions would simply
mean a re-experiencing of the hideous paso
experience, a renewal of the awful struggle
which has made the Nineteenth Century a
tale of horror, a dreadful nightmare-dream
in the life of the human race. On every
hand, things are growing worse—and must,
Wealth revels without labour, without, soil-
ing as much as the superfine skin of its
lily-white hands, in everything that makes
fife pleasant and desirable. The director
drinks his champage, while the mine-serf
toils at the risk of his life in the bowels of
the earth to pay for it. The wife of the
speculative monopolist—that parasite of
Labour-glides through the mazes of a waltz,
prankt in sheeny silks and glittering with
gems, while the white wage-slave drudges in
dirt with all his intellectual and moral
faculties blunted and destroyed by the
demon of Free Competition. Hungry men
hght and struggle in the gutter of want with
their hands at each other’s throat in a pitiful
scrimmage to catch the dribblets of super-
fluity that fall from the rich man’s table and
which the hound that lies on Lucullus’
hearth-rug would spurn in its daintiness,
f ood, the source of strength, is daily becom-
ing dearer; manufactured articles, the
objects that engage the attention of the well-
red, are produced at lower cost with each
passing moment.
This present era is the era of absolute
and psychological want. Relative poverty
men have always known, but relative
poverty is easily borne. It consists simply
in the inability to indulge in that which is
not imperatively necessary to the proper
sustention of the functions of life. To be
absolutely poor is to be unable to purchase
the food, the rest, and sleep without which
life is not. Capital in this age controls the
sources of food ; to obtain it Labour is com-
pelled to cheapen the cost of its operations
correlatively with the reduced cost of manu-
factured articles, while food, so absolutely
necessary, is all the time growing corres-
pondingly more difficult to procure. And
still the struggle goes on ! Happiness is a
neglected end ; the material prosperity of
the few is everything. Political Economy
has but a single problem—the procurement
and increase of wealth. Politics are em-
ployed to assist in the art of transferring it
trom the many little to the big few. Jeremy
Be nth am s axiom of “ the greatest good of
the greatest number” is lost ti sight, tmd
men prate of justice in a land where the hap-
piness of the hundred ha 3 to give place to
the luxury of one. Henry George, in one
of his economic works, truly says :
That the maises of men are robbed of their earnings
they have to work maoh harder for a very much
poorer living than they ouj'ht to get—is to my mind
clear.” _ J
“Clear ! It is dazzling in its transparent
obviousness ; yet still the wheels grind on !
* * »
In one of tho3e clear cut essays whi ;h have
made tha repul a don of the English Positivist
worid-wide, Freoeric Harrison insists that
the welfare of the State depends on what
the lives of its woiking-classes are like. Aud
what are they like ? V isit the feverous
alley and the festering slum if you would
know. Visit the hovels where dwelt the
makers of wealth they never share, the
suppliers of wants they are supposed neVcf
to feel, but which are the saihe in serf and
sovereign. People meet the earnest warn-
ings of science and philosophy with scorn as
superficial as insolent. They square their
consciences by quoting Scripture and imagine
they have solved the most tremendous pro-
blem of the age by a phrase borrowed from
the Bible : “ The poor ye have always with
you.” True !- but not the poor of this
Nineteenth Century* There never were at
any period of the world’s habitation by man
such appalling contrasts between rich and
poor as at present. The differences have
never bef ere now been so prominent, so
hideously painful, so awful and so strongly
marked. We live in a period in which the
superficies has dwindled into a line, and the
line threatens to terminate in a point,
• •
Things are so bad, the outlook for hu-
manity is so black, that it tasks severely all
a strong man’s resolution not to surrender
the last faint fancied ray of hope as mere
igais fatuus, a deceptive will-o’-the-wisp.
Many do lose heart and trudge onward to
the grave in apathy. They feel that Free
Competition destroys more lives than the
most terrible war conceivable. Pessimism
sees nothing ahead but the gloom of despair
and the eternal blackness of the tomb ; but
the pessimists are only a section. There are
those with a faith as intense as that of the
early Christians who refuse to accept the lie
of the “iron law of wages” which Political
Economy offers in lieu of bread to a
starving world. They hear a cry which
comes up from the hovels, mingled with the
moans of children and suffering women,
hoarse with hunger and harsh with hate •
“Give us bread !” And humanity flings
down the gauds and gew-gaws that it fought
for in the past to enlist in the new cause.
Religion no longer welcomes the starving
homeless vagabond The shelter and shade of
the Cross is monopolised by the gilded mag-
nates of the land, while Art contests with
Literature the privilege of smoothing the
velvet pillows of wealthy leisure. ° Yet
the few, the Morrises, the Hyndmans,
the Henry Georges, and Elisee Re-
cluses of the race, marshall the ranks
of the social army, repeating words
of hope, and instilling the maxims
that are more powerful for victory than ar-
senals or battalions. Every day the enemy
is getting weaker and fewer—and richer.
Every day the army of the needy is growing
in numbers. And the struggle for social
equality occupies every energy of modern
man. Just as in the Middle Ages religion
was the motive force of action, just as in°the
latter part of the last century and in the
beginning of the present the nations of the
world were aroused to a sense of the abstract
needs of intellectual enlightenment, and en-
gaged in a battle for political liberty, so in
our age do they strive to adjust the
inequalities of our social condition to the
demands of that justice which is the outcome
of culture and humanity. The spread of
the gospel of Islam in the name of the pro-
phet, the search for the Golden Fleece, the
pursuit of honour and glory in the wars
with the Saracens, the rescue of the Holy
Sepulchre, the discovery of America and
the Indies, never awakened such whole-
souled and genuine enthusiasm, never
engrossed the lives and faculties of
our best thinkers and most active
philanthropists, never held up such visions
of the future than the seemingly hopeless
and prosaic attempt to realise a period when
psychologic want should be unknown ; yet
the rapid development of events in Russia
and the astounding universality with which
the world leapt forward to listen to the
teachings of Henry George, ought to con-
vinca us that the Coming Ravolation is
already here—the muffled trampling of its
army can be distinguished amid the noises of
the night, and in our streets, though faintly,
may ba heard ihe rattle of side arms and the
reveille-rumblings of the drums proclaiming
a new day-dawn for humanity.
Irrigation.
A Measure passed through the New South Wa
Assembly the other night affirming the desirabilit;
of cinserving water for the purposes of irrigatio
In a country which like, New South Wales,
subject to a variable rainfall, to seasons of droiig
succeeded by seasons of flood, some such systei
tor the conservation of a national water-supply
nob only indispensable, it is absolutely imperativ
It is all very well for the opponents of Sta'
responsibility in this matter to urge that althoug
the resources of the country cannot be adequate
developed without a system of scientific irrigatior
yet at the same time it is not jhsb to saddle tl
community at large with heaVy debts incurrec
either in raising the valhe of private property
for the benefit of leaseholders That is not th
question. Would not the community as a who
receive a benefit from a national system of irrig
tion proportionate to the benefit received by th
community from the furtherance of every othe
national work, notwithstanding the present con
dibions that regulate the accumulation of capita
in the hands of a few, and the absorption o
vast estates by rpeculators in private property
Tb argue otherwise would be bo recommend th
postponement of every act of national legislator
until the country had obtained a full measure o
Land Nationalisation. This is the contention o
those who would put aside the consideration of
question like Protection in favour of an ultima®
and possibly long-deferred realisation of th
theories of Henry Geoßße. On the samegboßnc
railways should not be built until the land Of th
country was a 1 nationalised', because railways in
crease the Va’.ile of phivarn property in land, ahc
it Would be just as logical to tax the property
holders for ttie construction of railways as i
would be to ax them for the construction of water
wo;ks. On the other hand, some one may say le
the State undertake the work of irrigating th
country on scientific principles, but those least
holders who desire irrigation should be preparec
to pay the exp?nsei cmsequtnt on its introduc
tion ; if not in a lumpsum, at least in a yearly
contribution proportioned to the area irrigated
whilst in those districts where the land is freeholc
the whole expenses of initiation and supporl
should be borne by those who alone are directly
benefited by it. But this would not do the gooc
expected. It is not the State’s business to pro-
vide irrigation for any private individual who may
want it, It is the State’s business to provide irri
gation wheresoever it may be required, without
any reference whatever to individual wants, for ir-
rigation is not a personal luxury so much as a S vate
necessity. If it were left to the individual
to say whether he wanted irrigation or not, the
wealthier would have the greater advantage—the
poor man limiting the productiveness of his land
to the measure of his pocket. Again, it would be
decidedly unjust. Sterile land with all the ad*'
vantages of irrigation cannot be made so produc-
tive as the alluvial flats that fringe the banks of
rivers in rainy districts—in most cases in New
South Wales, at all events, also nearer market—
and irrigated by Nature without cost. These
latter would have a pronounced advantage over
the farmers in less favoured localities, and if the
State proposes to equalise conditions by taxing
the latter, why not extend the tax, on the
Georgeian principle, over the whole country, ab-
sorbing the unimproved value of land whereso-
ever that land may be situated ? In such a case
the State could then irrigate as the country re-
quired it, with no invidious distinction that
pressed heavily on a man who was forced to select
in a waterless district, hundreds of miles from the
sea-coast.
* * *
The opponents of irrigation instance the remark
of Mr. Chanter, in the New South Wales As-
sembly, who, while speaking on the question of
State irrigation quoted (as showing how it might
ba made baneficial to the country) a case in Vic-
toria where land by these means had risen in value
from £2 to over £2O per acre. Say the ultra anti-
irrigationists, no doubt the hon. member considered
that the owner of this laud was perfectly entitled
to reap the unearned increment conferred by the
expenditure of public money, but to the students
of the land question the seizure by the holder of
private property of all adventitious rises in value
by such means is iniquitous and differs but little
from a bold dipping of the hand into the public
purse. No doubt, but while we permit men to
absorb the unearned increment in city and subur-
ban lots, in naming-_ property, in speculatory
swindles of all sorts, it is idle to attempt reform
in the least reprehensible direction. Under exist-
ing conditions a man is entitled to reap any
additional advantage or value pub upon his pro-
perty by State expenditure, and the only way to
combat this right is the introduction of a full
measure of Land Nationalisation. That granted,
all talk about a special irrigational tax would be
idle, for the principle of the single tax applies to
all unimproved values in land.
* • •
But this is only a partial aspect of the question.
People are clamouring for settlement upon the
land ; hundreds of useless men and women crowd
into the sea-coast cities and lack the means of
transportati l n to the interior, or the means to
procure a living when they geti there. Immense
stretches of barren land are hungering for
labour, for water, for railways. An immense
inland tract which might be turned into a garden
is now devoted to raising a few sheep and sup-
porting one or two families in giving balls and
parties in London or in Paris. The country wants
nob one act of legislation which will conduce to
settlement but a hundred—at least a dozen. The
big estates must be taxed until they are burst up.
The selector must have land on easy terms and
time to pay for it—if need be the State should ad-
vance funds for the working of his holding, pro-
viding him with seed and tools at a minimum
cost. Water must be introduced for the sake of
the country. Crops cannot be raised in dry, sun-
blistered soil, parched and thirsting for rain or
its equivalent. Railways must be extended in
order that the selector may be able to con-
vey his produce to market. Settlement
without irrigation, railways, and an easy market
is a ludicrous and irritating farce, and all the
while the State stands by with its hands in its
pockets this seems to be the only sort of set-
tlement such countries as New South Wales seem
likely to get. As for the anomalies of the present
system and the advantages they afford to the
speculative landholder, the State at present can
do nothing. Land Nationalisation and Land
Nationalisation alone is the equitable remedy.
The system is to blame, not the individual, and
until the system is altered all works for the public


benefit will, as heretofore, tend to enrich the
wealthy ;■ but it would be absurd for the State to
neglect its work simply because the meed of good
performed must be inflected by a measure of evil.
After all, advance is a compromise between the
existing evil and the ideal excellence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Mercy of the Tiger.
The Boulanger bubble has for a season collapsed,
and the world learns what a Frenchman, resident
in Sydney, prophesied two months ago in a letter to
The Bulletin, vi t. -—That Boulanger is not the
creator of a party but the agent of a syndicate—a
syndicate moreover which calculates in flesh and
blood and human agony, and assesses the tears of
widows and orphans in tangible millions that only
await a war to be realised. Much is said from
time to time about the disregard of the wicked
workman for the convenience of the good capita-
list from whom he gets that inestimable boon—
work; but small notice is taken of the gentle
tiger who is known to men as Jay Gould or
the amiable shark who signs the name of
Mackay to his infamous contracts iu men’s lives.
Yet we are always getting choice samples of con-
sideration for poor humanity from the men whose
daily income is assessed at thousands sterling.
Bub a few years ago the world, callous as it is, was
horrified at the merciless character of the dealings
of Jay Gould with the telegraph-operators of the
great American company in which he held an iron-
handed interest. Only a few months since this
pleasing human copy of Mephistopheles pro-
posed to stop all strikes in America, and to effec-
tually reduce the white workman to a state of
abject vassalage by the establishment of fac-
tories and workshops broadcast along the sea-
board of China. But it was left to Mackay—
the step father of the wife of Prince Colonna,
one of the oldest and noblest of extant Roman
families—to excel his countryman, if the mere Capi-
talist can be sa ; d to have anything so human as a
countryman, in blackhearted perfidy aiid hideously
revolting callousness. He is so rich that money
can be to him a small object. Bub his world is
very very little—only himself and Jay Gould
and a few others, and the only thing left for him
is a sorb of Zukertort chess-game, with men for
pawns and the stake the freedom of nations.
Within a few months Mackay, according to
statements published in some of the most
influential papers in Europe, has spent five
millions sterling in buying up grain and various
foods, in purchasing newspapers and hiring the
prostitute pens of journalists. He has worked
with the end of gain only in view, but his method
involves the lives of millions and the happiness of
whole races; for once set the war-ball rolling, no
one can say where will it stop. Boulanger was
MaOKAy’s implement. A proverb says that there
is always a great man waiting to seize the great
moment. It might be varied with more truth to
“ the opportunity has always its tool.” Boulan-
ger was the leader of a revolution, a sort of pigmy
copy of Napoleon, the idol of the army, the
coming dictator ! This was the mask. The fox
behind it was the advance agent of a speculating
capitalist, who trafficked in his chances of profit
by bloodshed just as his “ wheat-corner ”
brethren in New York traffic in their chances of
profit by starvation. Indeed, Mackay intended
to combine both factors in dividend-making. But
his schemes have to take a back-seat for a season.
The Boulang er bubble has burst. The conspiracy
is now all public property. Mackay, however, is
not effaced by a swindled and outraged nation.
His crime is called a “speculation.” He is not a
whit better, but a thousandfold worse, than the
Bremen man who a few years ago was condemned
and executed for insuring vessels and sending
them to sea with infernal-machines on board.
Mackay ’» wife will continue to give balls at which
the waltzes are sung bya trained choir two-thousand
strong. She will continue to give dinners and pre-
sent her guests with gold covers specially engraved
with their names, and bonbons will be cracked
with their eternal enclosure of diamonds and
other pretty trifle 3. Society will continue to
receive Mrs. Mackay and Mr. Mackay, and all
the alligator brood that can buy up humanity, for
Plutocracy rules the world nowadays. This new
ruler, this William 111., cannot assure his Ger-
man people to-morrow that they shall come to no
harm from the machinations of the money-bag !
Rothschild and Jay Gould and Mackay govern
through the money market; and if to-morrow
either of these people wanted a war they could
have one. We have passed through the Stone
Age, the Iron Age, the Bronze Age, the Steel
Age ; we are now in the Age of Gold —blood-red
and crime-stained, and we are subjected every
moment of our lives to the mercy of the profit-
maker.
4.
Tlie Female Maelstrom.
The Rev. J. W. Horsley, who for some time was
chaplain in Clerkenwell. Gaol, England, has put
together a decade’s criminal statistics in a way
which shows the baneful effect of the existing
social system on the minds and morals of women
in particular. The years he gives are from 1878
to 1887, and the conclusions he draws are that in
careers of constant crime men are only 3 per cent,
whereas women are 12 per cent worse than 10
years ago. The record is for England and Wales,
and the figures given bear out his conclusions.
Last Saturday’s S.M, Herald, dealing with
this subject, accounts for this difference be-
tween bht•‘sexes in the constant pursuit of crime by
saying that when women become acknowledged
and published criminals they throw their lives
“ in the maelstrom.” This certainly explains Mr.
Horsley’s figures in a way, but not in the way
out of which any good can be drawn. For why,
if our discipline were of the right sort and society
in its right mind, should convicted women more
than convicted men throw their lives in a mael-
sbrom ? It ife to be borne in mind that most women
are first convicted for drunkenness or vagrancy.
In Mr. Coghlan’s tables for 1886 the female con-
victions for drunkenness and vagrancy in New
South Wales were 1589, while the convictions of
females for all other offences were 563. But drunken-
ness in its legal respect and vagrancy are
in reality offences of the poor. The latter
is itself a stinging definition of poverty. Where
competition for employment is great a woman
may be driven to be a vagrant, and thus made a
“published criminal without being criminal in
any of her instincts. ” But the stress of circum-
stance which led to her publication will, when she
returns to the world, be intensified by that pub-
lication. It is then, the Herald says, she throws
her life in the maelstrom. It is then, we admit
with Mr. Horsley, that she is found again and
again on the prison roll, but instead of throwing
herself, we say that the system under which she
lives drives her into the maelstrom. Her
first conviction is often brought about by
want of work or badly-remunerated work.
Hundreds of thousands of women in Eng-
land are trembling on the brink of
starvation. Of these the weakest are being con-
stantly elbowed out of the ranks of labour. That
which they were not able to do before their con-
viction becomes still more difficult to do after.
Hence Mr. Horsley’s figures, and hence the
Herald's conclusion that women throw them-
selves away. If the existing system of things
inside and outside of gaols be continued, then
there is nothing to look forward to but the further
deterioration of women as the years go by.
♦ ✓
Tlie Smith's Curse Trick.
Premier Parkes has his North Shore bridge fairly
on the board at last. A fellow must do something
when the election-time is drawing near. Parkes
only does in a loud voice what Inglis does in a
small one, and conns up smiling with his peren-
nial promise like Ex-Senator Bloomington of
Smith’s Curse, Colorado. Ex-Senator Blooming-
ton when first soliciting the “sweet voices” of
the Smith’s Curse “ push ” promised a bridge
over the Wayback, a clock for the Town Hall,
and repairs to the crier’s chimney. He went
through his senatorial berm, and Smith’s Curse
was still bridgeless and clocklesi, and the town
crier’s chimney had fallen down for lack of
propping up. Ex-Senator Bloomington was on
his last legs, but he had read Parkes’ life, and,
inspired by the example of that great man,
waltzed in again. The Smith’s Curse people
gathered with rage in their hearts and thunder on
their brows, and wondered what the deuce he’d
have to say for himself. Ex-Senator Bloomington
smiled —just like Abigail —and blandly gazed
into the fulgid optics of the crowd. “ Do you re-
collect,” said Ex-Senator Bloomington of Smith’s
Curse, Colorado, “Do you recollect that bridge I
promised you over the Wayback?” “We
do,” with concentrated bloodthirstiness —“ We
do!'' “ Do you recollect that clock for the Town
Hall tower t promised you ?” “ We do !” “ Do you
recollect the repairs I promised to effect on the
town crier’s chimney ? ” “ We do ! ” The re-
sponse was almost a riot, for the town crier’s
aunt was present, and she was a woman
of l2sb. and measured six feet without
her boots. “Well, boys,” said Ex-Senator
Bloomington, of Smith’s Curse, Colorado, “well,
boys, you see before you a genuine man, a man of
his word, a man that’ll never go back on you. I
promised you a bridge, and a clock, and—(with a
plaintive glance at the town crier’s female rela-
tive)—a new chimney to the dummy-cile of our
dear friend the crier. I promised you these things,
and I’m not the man to go back on my promise.
What I said three years ago I tay to-day, and I
promise you everything you want —Will that
satisfy you ? ” The crowd cheered, ‘ ‘ Good boy,
he promises everything all over again.” They
pulled him through, and Parkes will walk again
into the New South Wales Parliament via the
North Shore bridge—or the promise thereof.
4
Copyright.
“ Protection is waning in America.” At least,
so say the enthusiasts Foreign-traders of Sydney.
The publishers and printers of Great Britain are,
however, by no means inclined to think so on con-
sidering the conditions of an Act entitled the In-
ternational Copyright Bill, now before the Ameri-
can legislature. Its provisions are highly favour-
able to British authors, as it proposes to extend to
aliens the privileges hitherto reserved for American
writers—the only stipulation being that some part
of the book must be penned by the author in
Ameiica. On attainment of this power to copy-
right their works in America the value of the
work of British authors will be at least doubled.
This concession is, however, accompanied by a
clause stating that no work caa be copy-
righted in the States unless printed from
type set up within the American dominion.
Therefore the British publisher is somewhat
handicapped, became compelled in order to secure
the copyright in America to have the work “com-
posed ” twice, while the Freetrade policy of the
older country enables the American publisher to
supply both markets from the same Press. Thus
will the expenses of composition be doubled to
British publishers, thus will it be made advan-
tageous to British authors to place tbtir work in
the hands of American publishers. A deputation
from the publishing, printing, and papermaking
trades has brought the matter under the notice of
the President of the Board of Trade, Sir Michael
Hicks Beach, who admitted that the Bill waslikely
to interfere seriously with certain British indus-
tries, and proceeded to remark that this doubtless
was the intention of the measure. The Edinburgh
Chamber of Commerce at a largely-attended
meeting appointed a committee to watch the pro-
gress of the Chace Copyright Bill, and resolved
to memorialise the British Government in order
to obtain “an international arrangement on an
equitable basis.” The English Press are up in
arms over the matter; they declare that should
this Bill become law it will lead to a monopoly of
the publishing trade in the hands of a few great
houses, and these chiefly American. They also
endeavour to enlist the American reading public
on their side by asserting that this measure will
make English books as dear in the States as
American works are now. That it will thus
benefit American authors indirectly, as well
as British authors directly they do not consider—
what they desire is to force a protectionist country
to forsake its traditions, and embrace a policy
which handicaps its present supporters out of the
race for commercial supremacy 1 The country
that doggedly hangs on to a Foreign-trade policy
while surrounded by vast communities whose in-
dustries are carefully protected is bound to suffer.
When John Bull recognises this, and alters his
course, a revival of national prosperity may be
brought about, meanwhile he is the laughing-
stock of nations. Rabid Yankee-hating Britishers
would do well to remember that over 30 years ago
Charles Reade “publicly denied that the United
States had ever been guilty of any act so dis-
honest, disloyal, and double-faced, as Great
Britain had committed by treating with France
for international rights, and contriving, under
cover of that treaty, to steal the main intellectual
property of that empire.”
♦
Paupers and Pensions.
The New South Wales Engineer-in-Chief of Har-
bours and Rivers (an able and honourable man
against whom, personally, we have not a word to
say) is about to retire after 30 years’ service on a
special allowance. He has been granted six
months’ leave on full pay (bis salary is £l2OO per
annum) preparatory to resigning, and the officer,
who succeeds him, has been accorded six months’
holiday on full pay before assuming office Is it
just that the country should be asked, not only to
support these men while they are enjoying them-
selves, but probably to pay other men to do their
work in their absence ? Surely not. The ordinary
worker receives no pay during holiday time. He
may have done the State as good service in his
way as any highly-paid civil servant, and
yet his earnings have probably not averaged
£2 per week. Should he be driven in days of
decrepitude to seek eleemosynary aid, he is called
“improvident,” “criminally extravagant,” and
homilies are penned by oleaginous and prosperous
persons, and mouthed from plush-lined pulpits,
pointing out that it is the duty of the worker
(whose earnings barely suffice to provide the neces-
saries of life) to take heed for to-morrow, and lay
by for a rainy day. The pampered official who,
during long years of service, has received high
pay is allowed by a paternal Government to retire
in the prime of life, and his improvidence is re-
warded by State support during the remainder of
his existence. Possibly it costs the State
more to keep one such pensioner than
50 worn-out paupers in Liverpool Asylum.
Yet the Asylum pauper is looked down on,
imprisoned like a criminal, and his allowance
of coarse food doled out to him with a grudging
hand. The civil service pauper, on the other
hand, is free to go where he listeth, and is feted,
and feasted, and worshipped as a public benefac-
tor. Why is this thus ? Admitting that both
men worked well while vigour remained one man
has had no opportunities of saving money, while
the other has had great opportunities, yet the
former is abused for not doiDg what was practi-
cally impossible, and the latter who has neglected
to do what he could is pointed out as
a pattern to young men. If State pensions
are to be continued, let them be general,
let us have State Socialism at once. Either
all who have lived for a certain time in the
community and worked conscientiously for its
advancement are entitled, on arriving at an age
when they can no longer toil, to State assistance,
or else no one is entitled to State aid of any
description. It is disgraceful to everyone con-
cerned that men who are virtually independent
retain their grasp on the public purse after sever-
ing their connection with the service, and that
they alone are mercifully considered in their old
age by the State. While the community is plun-
dered that officialism may flourish like a green
bay tree, Quong Tart continues to give Christmas
treats at the various New South Wales bene-
volent asylums, and distributes figs of tobacco
and slices of plum-pudding, interspersed with
Scottish melody once a year. “To him that hath
shall be given,” and what he hath not he will
attempt to obtain.
♦
The “Sydney Morning Herald ” oil Toast.
In the S.M. Herald of 2nd August appeared an
elaborate leading article dealing with the Ameri-
can Tariff Bill. By this Bill it is proposed to
lighten the tax on wool and certain other products,
on the ground that they cannot be produced in
the requisite quantity or of the requisite quality
by their home producers. The idea is to give the
manufacturing industries every encouragement
and protection by admitting free, raw material
which it would be impossible to produce to
advantage on the spot. This the Herald
says is freetrade pure and simple. The leading
article goes on to say that if the tax is taken off
wool it ought just as reasonably be taken off iron,
and, in fact, off every raw product, and that the
removal of the tax on wool is an indication that the
tariff on all sorts of produce will be lifted in time.
Now, it is often very easy to refute the arguments
of the S.M. Herald, but in this case the Herald
has relieved us of the trouble of doing so by re-
futing them itself. In a previous leading article
on the same subject the Herald said : “ For the
last few years the wool industry has been waning
in the United States, though it never flourished as
it ought even with Protection. The cause is partly
owing to the large increase in population and
settlement, and the corresponding decrease in
grazing area. The American wool is not so good
as the Australian wool at its best, and our contri-
butions to their market would be received by the
people of the country with favour.” And after
this the Herald has the front to say that the
duties on wool were abolished in America because
the people were turning freetraders ! The reasons
why the wool duties were abolished are given by the
Herald in the above extract, and they are such
as every Protectionist sympathises with. No
Protectionist would ask a duty on coal coming
into a country where they did not produce coal;
and the American Protectionists, finding that
they cannot produce wool for themselves, owing,
as the Herald says, to the increase of settlement
and decrease in grazing area, have decided to let
ic come in free. But this is not Freetrade—not
much.
4.
England's Unsleeping Enemy,
From the London Weekly Bulletin
“ Whichever way we turn, financially speaking, we are
met in full face by—Germany. It is only too evident that
Berlin has stepped into the shoes of London. Berlin has
now the commercial supremacy of the world. Whilst
England has been sleeping or wasting its energies in
eulogising or vituperating the merits of leaders of respec-
tive parties in St. Stephen’s, Berlin has been quietly push-
ing her commerce into the remotest portions of the
world. Whilst Lords Disraeli and Salisbury have been
cozening the people into throwing still more power into
the hands of landlords ; whilst Gosciien and Smith have
been hoodwinking us, and extracting more and more coin
out of our pockets, the great Bismarck and his coadjutors
have been laying the foundation for becoming the greatest
nation upon earth—conquerors not only by blood, but
now by gold and brains. Parliament here passes its entire
time, year after year, in fruitless struggles against Irish
freedom, and in voting moneys for our hideous
farces the Army, the Navy, and the Civil Ser-
vice (we must not forget the Board of Works) ;
whilst the entire land is drifting to the devil.
Agriculture is becoming a thing of the past, or only a
vehicle whereby shareholders in the different railways
can obtain extra profits. Our northern industries are
fast filling into decay,; many towns are absolutely ruined,
whilst all others, or nearly all others, are fast following
such precedent. Our big cities are filled with people
who should be working on the soil, and our soil is simply
reverting to a state of nature. Our commerce with other
lands is fast decaying or disappearing. We are reduced
to tax cheap wines and to prevent the cultivation of home
tobacco. We have, always in the quest of coin for pen-
sions or similarly useless operations, even tried to tax
matches, and it is rumoured in certain circles that the
next impost is to be a repetition of one enforced many
years ago—viz., upon windows. Our expenses for Govern-
ment, Royalty, or pensions are simply terrible to contem-
plate. And yet beyond the fulfilling of its own require-
ments we have no Government whatever. Nothin-; but
a sham. And we all know that directly we cease
lending money to our colonies they will all leave
us one after another. Then cur last hope goes too.
But Germany ! The eyes of the world are now upon her
from her late terrible disasters. We can now think of
what she is doing or has done. We have all got Berlin
upon the brain. Who has taken the late (and the new)
Mexican loan into her keeping, and put the premium up
so enormously ? Beilin. Who has taken the new Spanish
loan and made such pile 3 of money by rigging the old one
up to present quotations, against the bears of London
and Paris ? Benin. Who is hand in glove with Italy
and finances all her requirements, making fertunes out of
the operation ? Berlin. Who, when London Bold such
enormous bears a year or two ago of Russians down in
the eighties, bought the lot and put the stock to par,
realising enormously ? Berlin. Who, indeed, has the
entire St. Petersburg Bourse in its own hands, to control
at will? Berlin. Who takes the best American lines of
bonds, leaving England to swallow the rubbish ? Berlin.
From what city hail our cleverest London financiers —
those who make fortunes whilst they reside within our
midst, and bring over their uncl;s, aunts, and cousins to
devastate the land ? And all honour to them. Berlin.
To what city do they return, once their fortunes made
here, there to spend their declining days in peace and hap-
piness upon the interest of the fortunes they have ac-
cumulated in London ? Berlin. Berlin is to-day doing
the greater portion cf the trade of North and South
Africa. \Y hilst we were being beaten out of the Trans-
vaal our last and only hope—she was opening up a trade
which is now increasing by leaps and bounds. ()ur infor-
mation shows us that Germany is rapidly taking posses-
sion of vast tracts of land in the Dark Continent, and
that her merchants are steadily ousting" our own people
everywhere. She has even got a hold of the Pacific
Islands. Germans swarm through thv United States,
and their habits of economy and thrift make them
the very best citizens it is possible to conceive.
Each one loves bis Fatherland, and does his best to import
or export thereto or therefrom. Germans in America
love Germany as much as Irishmen in America hate Eng-
land. In the one case they have been governed by a
kind, far-seeing Government; in the other, they have
been expatriated by a rule scarcely less harsh than that
of Russian Siberia. Germany is already the arbiter of the
world, and her ned would have far more influence on
European politics than the knowledge that England in-
tended to call out her entire army and navy. Under the
rule of Bismarck, Germany can and does control the
world. Under the sceptre of Victoria, England is a by.
word and a laughing-stock. England laments her bygone
prosperity, and cries out for sackcloth and ashes. Ger-
many is prosperous beyond compare. Her agriculture is
thriving, land is improving in value day by day, and in
the big cities house rentals are going up hand over hand.
Her merchants are rolling in wealth ; and as to the Bourse
—well, when Berlin is closed, London stockbrokers take a
holiday.
The Bulletin, without any wish to be needlessly
irreverent, begs to submit that the lanky prayer
composed by Squatter M‘Bain, president of Mel-
bourne Exhibition, and unctuously said by him at
the opening of the show, needs to be read with a
strong Scotch accent and with certain obvious
emendation—in the spirit of the subjoined :
‘ The heaven, even the heavens are thine ; but the airth
hast Thou given to the children of men (the squatters) ;
and, as Thou didst at first bid them to multiply and re-
plenish the airth, and subdue it, we gie Thee hairty
thanks that in Thy gracious providence Thou didst guide
our fathers to this exceeding good lond—-a lond flowing
wi’ milk and honey—and hast so prospered us that a
little £1 has become a thoosand and a small one a strong
nation.”
And so on. Thanking Heaven for “ guiding our
fathers to this exceeding good lond—a lond flow-
ing wi’ milk and honey ” —is, considering the cir-
cumstances under which the “ fathers ” of a very
important section of those who have grabbed this
“exceeding good lond ” came to Australia, a
colossal satire which could only be unconsciously
perpetrated in public by a Scotchman. Why, the
dunderhead, wasn’t he theretobelpinopeningan ex-
hibition commemorative of the hundredth anniver-
sary of thelandingof our “forefathers ?” WhenTitE
Bulletin is going to insult anybody it stands up
to do it ; it doesn’t kneel down like Sir Jamie
M‘Bain.
Some Australian Natives in Sydney “desired to
pay tribute and homage or something to Sir
Thomas M‘llwraith ” when he passed through
the other day to Melbourne Exhibition. We are
sorry to note that the paying of tribute or homage
is about the- only sort of payment the average
Australian seems inclined to make. If the young
Australians of Sydney really wanted to do
M‘llwraith any good and their country any good
the best thing they could have done was not to
tender homage or tribute but to give an assurance
that while he kept straight, fought Imperialism,
and remained true to Australia, he would have
their hear by support, but if he deviated from his
course one-thousandth of an inch the Australian
Nationalists would be the first to arraign and
denounce him. In a democratic county allegiance
to men means treason to the State.
+
The Bulletin is glad to note that the public is
at last beginning to awaken to the fact that the
Mount Rennie trial was a reproach to the ad-
ministration of justice in Australia and a stain on
the reputation of New South Wales. The Aus-
tralian Star of a recent date points out the
method the community should pursue in bringing
the matter before Governor Carington, and
characterises the “so-called investigation made by
the Minister for Justice, which terminated in the
farcical proceeding of sending the papers to the
judge who tried the case for his report” as being
“ wholly irregular.” The Star points out that no
inquiry or re investigation, as prescribed bv the
Criminal Law Amendment Act, has been held,
and that it is still open for those who believe that
the Mount Rennie boys were wroDgly convicted
to take action under section 383 of that Act. The
Star considers that, in the face of the reasons
that would be adduced in support of the petition*
the Governor would be bound to order an in-
quiry :
“ The principal reasons were stated by the Hon. W. B.
Dalley in the speech which he made as a member of the
deputation that waited on the Governor to urge him to
exercise the prerogative of merev on the six youths then
lying under sentence of death. In the strongest possible
language Mr. Dalley condemned the manner in which
the trial was conducted. He distinctly stated that the
parallel of Mr. Justice Windeyer's proceedings could be
found only in ‘ some of the darkest page 3 of a very dark
period of Irish history.’ ”
Should this investigation be held the Star opines
that not only will Newman and Keegan be re-
leased from gaol and the sentences of the other
prisoners diminished, but “Mr. Justice Windeykk
will be exhibited in such a light that the public
will not tolerate bis remaining any longer in his
present position.”
+.
“L. 4. B.” of the Sydney Daily Telegraph, in
his “Stray Notes of a Trip by the P. and 0.
Route,” speaking of the fondness of the Cingalese
for litigation, refers to a case decided in the
Supreme Court of Ceylon relating to a dispute
about the ownership of the 2520th part of 10
cocoanut-trees. Says the writer, “I was not sur-
prised after hearing this (and it is a fact on record
in the colony) to learn that there are no less than
4000 lawyers in Ceylon.” But a legal issue in-
volving the 2520th part of 10 cocoanut-trees ac-
counts for much more than the number of lawyers
in the island. Ib shows, at all events, that a poor
man’s 2520th share in even so small a matter as 10
cocoanut-trees is of sufficient importance to occupy
the time 1 and learning of the Supreme Courb of
that place. It shows also that as regards a
practical application of the principle of communi-
sation of property the Cingalese are leagues ahead
of the land from which “ L. J. Ex’ had sailed and
thousands of leagues ahead of the land to which
“ L. J. B.” was sailing. '
Crirjjpin '•
We always believed that Mr. John Harris,
Mayor of Sydney, was a N.S.W. native. We
find we were in error and hasten to explain.cn
the authority of Mr. F. B. Freehill, that Mr.
Harris is a native of Ballymulligan, Londonderry,
Ireland, and an enthusiastic Home Ruler, bedad.
At () o’clock on the night of ‘the funeral at
Berlin, a dinner was given at the Royal Castle, at
which covers were laid for 150. The Emperor
William and the foreign princely personages, with
their suites, were present. The King is dead.
Long live the King !


History of Botany Bay.
We have now seen the last of the convict-
system, but, before the subject is finally
closed, it will be well to illustrate what has
been said about its iniquities by one striking
characteristic instance. To tell the whole
stoi’y in its naked horror would be impos-
sible, and our purpose in this, as in other
instances, will be served just as well by
selecting one example as a type or standard.
Meantime, it is as well to add that between
the years 1840 and 1845 no less than 17,000
convicts were sent out to Tasmania.
* * *
The case we now take is that of a trans-
portee named Charles Anderson, and his
career will illustrate the working of the old
penal system of the colonies for us before we
close this inquiry into the causes that have
influenced our later development. Nothing
so cleai’ly fixes the impression of the general
character of these early influences than a re-
presentative instance displaying the system
in its working and in its effects. Charles
Anderson was one of the tens of thousands
who fell under the merciless penal laws of
their country, and were sent out to Botany
Bay. His father was a sailor who was
drowned, leaving a wife and two boys, of
whom this individual was one. The mother
died and the two children found their way to
the workhouse, and from that enlightened
and painfully benevolent institution they
were sent to sea. At the age of 9 years
Charles was apprenticed to a collier, served
his term, and then joined a man-of-war. He
was at the battle of Navarino, where he re
eeived a wound in the head. Now, neithei
the collier nor the workhouse were good
schools for getting a clear grasp of socio-
economical questions, and whatever airy
perceptions this good fellow had of these
matters were further considerably knocked
askew by that _unkind buffet he got in the
service of the" King. The consequence of
this was that when a little excitement or
less rum ovei’set the balance that held him
between right and wrong, he incontinently
toppled over into evil courses. He was
with a party of drunken sailors in a Devon-
shire seaport town one evening, and in the
street row that naturally followed some
shops were broken into. Charles Anderson
was arrested, convicted, and sentenced to
seven years’ transportation to Botany Bay.
The wound received in the service of the
King was of little avail for him on that or
any other occasion.
Charles Anderson was now 18 years of
age. No one said a word in his favour, and
not a step was taken in his behalf. When
he recovered from his semi-lunatic state he
had no recollection of what had taken
place. The judicial proceedings simply dazed
him. He perhaps knew of no crime that
lie had committed, and for a lad whose
life had been spent in the workhouse and
at sea the action of the Courts was, likely
enough, an absolute mystery. Before
he realised what was going on he was
at sea again ; not this time wearing the
King’s uniform but the fetters of a convict-
hulk. On his arrival at Sydney, after a
voyage of which the miseries need not be
repeated, he was sent to Goat Island. This
unhallowed spot, which has a history of its
own in the records of convict discipline, was
a place of detention for English or first-con-
victed prisoners. The mental state of Charles
Anderson at this stage is thus described in
an article printed in an English magazine
some years later, “ Doomed to a punish-
ment involving the deepest degradation,”
says this writer, “ for a crime of the com-
mittal of which he was ixot conscious, the
bitterest hostility against his kind took pos-
session of his breast.” This remark embodies
the experience of every observer of the
system, which embruted the men it was sup-
posed to reform. “ Utterly ignorant both
mentally and morally,” this article goes on
to add, “ he had little idea of patient submis-
sion, which, indeed, physical disease ren-
dered impossible. No wonder, then, that
violence created violence. His floggings
were almost innumerable ; but, sturdy and
staunch for good or evil, punishment had no
effect on him. His was no spirit to give
in to harshness, and kindness was never
dreamt of.” Under these conditions, this
man may be regarded as having made a fair
start.
Goat Island kept Anderson two months,
when he elected to retire. His views re-
specting penal discipline did not at all coin-
cide with those of the humorous individuals
who held sway in Goat Island. He ab-
sconded, therefore, eluded his keepers, and,
braving the sharks that were induced by
judicious feeding to swarm around the
island, swam ashore, and made his escape.
From this point his real enjoyment of the
situation may be said to commence. He
was caught, taken to the Sydney Barracks,
and presented with 100 lashes for his activity.
Then he was sent back to Goat Island, where
the authorities, scorning to be deprived of
the wholesome fun that was’ justly theirs
by any precipitancy on the part of the people
at the Barracks, generously gave Charles
Anderson 100 more lashes for the same
offence, and in a spirit of philanthropic
reform added a sentence of 12 months in
irons—also for the same offence. During
that 12 months he received exactly 100
lashes a month, being 1200 in all, for
offences which are recorded in the register as
“looking round from his work,” “gazing at
a boat in the river,” and other such atro-
cious outrages. At the end of the 12 months
he shed his irons, and obnoxiously made use
of the first chance opportunity offered to
take his chance among the sharks once more.
He escaped, and, of course, was arrested
again. Remember, the original sentence of
this 18-year-old boy was for seven years.
• * *
The Goat Island people acted with splendid
decision this time. It is solemnly recorded
that they first incontinently gave Charles
Anderson 200 lashes for absconding, then had
him tried for the same offence, gave him 100
lashes more, and then sentenced him to be
chained to a rock on the island for two years.
This humorous device was carried out.
“ With barely a rag to cover him, he was
fastened by his waist to the rock with a
chain 26 feet long, and with trumpet-irons
on his legs. A hollow scooped out in the
rock, large enough to admit liis body, served
for his bed, and his only shelter was a
wooden lid perforated with holes, which was
placed over him and locked in that position
at night, being removed in the morning.”
Chained up like a recalcitrant chimpanzee in
this way, the unhappy -youth was left such
liberty as his 26 feet of linked iron afforded
to feed the aesthetic side of his nature with
unintemipted views of such matchless
scenery as Our Beautiful Hai'bour affords ;
the other food he required was “pushed”
at him, we are told, on the end of a long
pole. Sometimes one of the other prisoners
would so far close their eyes to the
humour of this novel situation that they
would be led insanely enough to pity
their comrade. One brutalised individua ,
who had been a messmate of t! e
A BIT OF BACOY.
Chimpanzee, actually gave him a piece of
tobacco. Fox 1 this the Good Samaritan re-
ceived 100 lashes at the hands of his gaolers,
who could not understand such an abnormal
eccentricity of sympathy towards a fellow
creature.
* # *
The humanising effects of the system on
the general public were finely illustrated by
the case of Charles Anderson. The good
people made up little picnics and pleasant
water-pai’ties to see the Chimpanzee. They
regai’ded him as a wild beast, we are plainly
told, and when they passed in boats would
throw lots of bread and biscuit at him as at
a bear or a real Chimpanzee, to see him bolt
the morsels, or to hear the creature swear.
But we had better let an extract tell the rest
of this part of the disgusting story. This is
what we find in the English magazine we
have referred to : “ Exposed to all weathers,
and without clothing on his back and
shoulders, which were covered with sores
from repeated floggings, the maggots rapidly
engendered in a hot climate feeding upon
his flesh, he was denied even water to bathe
his wounds, such denial being not an infre-
quent portion of the punishment to which
he had been condemned ; and when rain
fell, or by any other means he could obtain
liquid, he would lie and roll in it in agony.”
On such occasions doubtless the water-parties
would offer extra attractions. No word need
be added to this except to remind the reader
that this took place, not in some remote
convict-pandemonium on a distant station in
the interior, or away on a lonely rock in the
vast Pacific, but on an island in the fairway
of Port Jackson within a stone’s' throw
almost of Government House ; and not in
the time of Goveimor Phillip or of the New
South Wales Corps, but under the rule of
Governor Darling and not much more than
50 years ago !
* * •
When Boui’ke arrived in the colony and
heard of this horror, he lost no time in
visiting Goat Island and personally enquiring
into the circumstances. He saw the Chim-
panzee and tried to reason with him, offering
to release him if he would promise to go
back to work. But things had gone too far.
Anderson refused to work, for he said that
“ if he worked he would be punished and if
he did not work he would be punished the
same.” Bourke x’eleased him, however, and
sent him to work at Port Macquarie away
from the Goat Island associations. Here
the gaolers devised new tortures. He was
put to work carrying lime in baskets on his
back from the kilns to some Government
barges lying off the settlement. His over-
seer, Anthony, threatened that the lime
and salt water should burn the flesh off
his back, “and in effect,” we learir, “it
did burn off the skin, causing excruciating
agony.” Anderson demurred, and accepted
an early opportunity that presented itself to
run fleetly away from the uncongenial
society of Mr. Anthony. He travelled
several hundred miles on foot, suffering cruel
hardships that were endurable to him since
they did not come from his fellow-creatures.
Ho joined some aboriginal tribe, who wore
pursued by the police for having attacked
and killed some settlers. These police cap-
tured Anderson and sent him back to Port
Macquarie, where Anthony gave him 200
lashes and returned him to his labour gang.
*
But the monotony of these proceedings
became simply fatiguing, and eventually
palled on Anderson. He lost all interest in
Mr. Anthony’s personal welfare, and when a
fellow-convict invited him to kill the over-
seer, Anderson accepted the invitation with
effusion. He was tired of life, he said —and
no wonder ; he said “ he would do the deed,
and be hanged for it.” So on a pleasant
morning, when the sun was bright on the
sleeping waters, he smote Mr. Anthony on
the ear with a spade, and that excellent man
expired. The soldiers spitted Anderson
with their bayonets, and when he was taken
to the hospital he was found to be wounded
in five places. He was cured, tried in Syd-
ney, sentenced to death, but, some meddle-
some fellow having most inopportunely made
some remark about the case and its circum-
stances, the man was snatched from the
gallows and sent to work in chains on Nor-
folk Island for the term of his natural life.
Here we lose sight of him, but only for a
time. His record shows that during his
residence at Norfolk Island he still con
tinued to furnish encouraging results to the
working of the system, insomuch that this
Charles Anderson may be regarded as one
of the best representative types the opera-
tion of the penal laws affords.
* * *
' Captain Maconochie was the next person
to interest himself in Anderson, and on Ins
arrival to take charge of Norfolk Island he
found his record to be 10 convictions for
violent assault, three times scheming to
avoid labour, and many charges of insolence
and insubordination. Anderson was at this
time 24 years of age, but, adds the record
significantly, lie looked 40. He was now a
desperate character, had been so for some
time, in fact. According to official appraisal
he was just the kind of convict for which
Norfolk Island was established —that is, the
utterly reprobate and hopelessly beyond
reform. The justification for the existence
of that island of horror was the phenomenon-
ally bad character of the people found
there, but the story of Anderson and of
hundreds like him shows that these outcasts
were regularly and systematically developed
by the convict-system, and cultivated up to
the phenomenal pitch of rascality which was
the effect of the system and not its reason or
cause. When Captain Maconochie arrived
he was told Anderson was “ cranky,” and
his fellow-prisoners amused themselves,
after the manner of their gaolers towards
themselves, by teasing him and making him
vicious This was stopped, and Maconochie
took the case in hand. There were some
wild bullocks running about the island, and
Anderson was placed in charge of these. He
went by the nickname of “ Bony ” now, and
a good many people thought mad Bony and
his wild bullocks would come to grief. No
one was allowed to interfere with him, how-
ever, and soon a marked change made itself
apparent in the man.
* * *
“He became less wild,’’ we read, “felt
himself of some value, and won praise for
his good conduct and successful management
of his bullocks. He and they grew tractable
together.” But what a contrast between
this poor wretch’s treatment of his bullocks
and, his own treatment by his gaolers!
Maconochie had heard of his being chained
to the rock on Goat Island before he saw
Anderson at all, and he humanely resolved
to do his best to give him his chance among
the rest of humanity ; there were occasionally
exceptions among the gaolers of the convict-
system. He watched his lunatic herdsman,
and “often were the anxious watchers
of the experiment amused by the first
insight into criminal discipline which Ander-
son displayed in the treatment of his
charge.” The watchers were “amused” ;but
the experiences of the herdsman that taught
him what lie knew were probably not of an
amusing character. No more blasting cen-
sure could be passed on the system than the
story of this benighted and God-forsaken
creature, thus turned from an honest sailor-
lad, who had, in his own ignorant way,
served his country under fire, to this mad
herdsman on this faraway abode of despair.
The experiment went on successfully, how-
ever, and it was observed that he and the
bullock's seemed to understand each other,
and that “he knew instinctively that high
and strong tempers will not bend to the
lash.” Constant occupation strengthened
and steadied his mind again, and as he im-
proved the old longing for something of his
sailor-life came back to him.
•
Captain Maconochie found that his physi-
cal liability to excitement continued, and he
was afraid to let him mix with his fellows.
His constitution, too, was so shattered as to
unfit him for heavy work. It occurred to
Maconochie to erect a signal-station on
Mount Pitt, the highest point of the island,
and place Anderson in charge. His delight
was extreme, for he now felt himself a man
again, and, dressed in his sailor’s costume,
he soon regained the bearing of a man-of-
war’s man. The top of Mount Pitt was
cleared, a hut built, and a staff with a com-
plete code of signals provided. Anderson
got a little patch of garden-ground to till
and keep in order, he grew the best potatoes
on the island, and every giver of a new flower
was a benefactor. He showed his gratitude
to Captain Machonochie by bringing every
day a fresh basketful of potatoes for the use
of his dinner-table, and the signals was so
well attended that the settlement at once
knew if a sail was in sight.
There is a story that Sir George Gipps
visited Norfolk Island about three years
after Maconocliie arrived, and while
driving one day Anderson was seen tripping
along in his trim sailor dress, full of im-
portance, with his telescope under his arm.
“What smart little fellow' may that be?”
said Gipps. “ Who do you suppose ? That
is the man who was chained to the rock in
Sydney Harbour,” came the reply. “Bless
my soul, you don’t mean to say so!” w r as
the Governor’s astonished rejoinder.
We will let an extract tell the rest of this
story of Charles Anderson, leaving the
reader to look for himself behind the curtain
w r hich in this perfectly-authentic biographi-
cal sketch we have drawn aside for a moment
THE MAN WHO WAS CHAINED TO A ROOK.
from the vision of horror it covers up and
conceals. From this and other instances
we have given the reader may judge of the
whole system, and this story of one-man’s
life is not told with any sensational object,
but with the view to point a political moral
that has a direct interest for every voting
unit of the population. The days of the
convict-system have gone. But our institu-
tions are branded deep with the old mark,
and the story of the past is the explanation
of the present and the key and guide to
popular action in the future. The extract
which follows tells us the last we know of
this victim of British laws that were highly
approved of in their day, but which have
been partially reformed in the light of De-
mocratic progress, just as the anomalies of
the present will disappear one by one before
the intelligence of the future.
• * *
‘' As he regained his self-respect Anderson
revealed a noble, generous heart, and a gay
and sociable disposition ; but his excitability
eventually became madness, and not long
after the benefactor who had restored him
and hundreds like him to the feelings and
duties of humanity was peremptorily recalled
from the scene of his philanthropic labours
Anderson was seen in a lunatic asylum by
one whom he had known as a friend of the
captain in Norfolk Island. The poor fellow
recognised his visitor and spoke of nothing
but Captain Maconochie and his family.”
Here his story finishes, and no blacker con-
demnation of the unspeakable Convict-
System and its agents at Botany Bay could
be imagined or found.
Some very queer and characteristic dis-
closures will shortly be made about a certain well-
known Sydney money-lending establishment
During the recent Australian mining boom
some tall frauds were perpetrated. A few have
been unearthed by an unsophisticated public, but
the many have kept the secret well. When the
fever was at its height the speculative public were
favoured with a long prospectus holding forth
prospects of illimitable wealth. Within a few
days double the number of shares required were
applied for. The affair was a brilliant success.
The shares boomed and boomed again. Not one
thought was given to the mine. The scrip was the
precious possession. Everything went along mar-
vellously till the boom could boom no more.
By this time all the “contributing shares” had
been bought up and sold several times over. The
“ promoters’ shares ” were well disposed of; every-
body who dealt in the shares made money—ex-
cept those who clung to them. Matters at length
came to that pass when the mine was required to
bring forth its store of wealth. The management
deferred ; they had one reason —which they with-
held —they found that, through a bit of bad
management, they wanted a mine! Driven at
last to action, they despatched a licensed surveyor
to the district, with instructions to survey
and apply for a probable piece of country. In due
time this was done, but up to date not a pick has
been driven in the mine.
Dear Bulletin, —We, of Broken Hill, are
a long way from Sydney, and consequently our
voice is but little heard in the capital. Can you
not give us a little publicity? We ought to ob-
tain some attention from the Government, for the
revenue they collect here is simply princely. We
are paying seven and eight shillings for 100 gallons
of domestic water, and four shillings for brackish
water, quite undrinkable, and unfit for laundry
purposes. Yet the Government refuse us a supply,
which we would otherwise get by rail, from the
Rathole tank, some 18 miles from here. A
short time back a private bill was thrown
out of Parliament which if passed would have
given the promoters the power to supply us
with water from the river Darling. We are thus
not allowed even to help ourselves. Last
week a Mr. John Low, a Government
official (living, by the way, at Silverton, 18 miles
from here) sent a telegram to the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald stating that domestic water was diffi-
cult to sell in Broken Hill at ss. per hundred
gallons. So we learn by a paragraph published
in the Silver Age of the 28th. Why, the diffi-
culty is to purchase domestic water at 53. per
hundred gallons—which Mr. Low would very soon
find out were he a resident householder. We
want to know if Abigail will abdicate. —Yours
truly, Householder. Broken Hill, 30th July.


Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—“ Drink ” p. 14
Her Majesty’s.— “ Lights o’ London ”
Criterion.— “ Modern Wives” ~
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy
Academy of Music. —Federal Minstrels
Charles Warner at Sydney Royal is still, in
the presence of crowded houses, conducting his
company through the seductive influences of
brandy, wash-houses, roof-tops, D.T.s, and snow-
storms. Of Mr. Warner no more can be said than
we have said already, but several members of his
company are nightly stepping up in public favour.
Mr. Herbert Flemming’s Gou get is as nicely-washed
as the part of such an aggressive moraliser can be,
and Miss Isabel Morris is nightly becoming more
tearful and pathetic as Gervaise until the part
threatens to break down under the strain and
stress of so much concentrated woe. But it is
Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner who is what the Ameri-
cans would call the “ doisy” of the “ ploy.” She
fills the bill as “ Virginie” with a thorough-going
callousness that leaves nothing to be desired, and
which would be invaluable to an undertaker or
the manager of a People’s bank. Miss Watt-
Tanner plays her thankless part with concen-
trated vim ; she dresses well and looks the mas-
sive albeit heartless beauty to perfection, and
when she comes before the curtain to take her
meed of the public reprobation she treats the
hisses of the ‘ ‘ gods ” with a stately contempt
worthy of Coriolanus.
## # #
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, the leading
attractions are still the electric-light outside and
Mr. Rignold and his warm bath in. There is no
more terrible indictment of the habits of the
people of Sydney than the remark of a local daily
that Mr. Rignold’s act of public ablution creates a
perfect furore every night that it takes place.
When bathing is regarded in the light of a sensa-
tion the practice of it must surely, to say the least
of it, have become somewhat spasmodic. Any
actor who would get shaved or have his head
shampooed in public would evidently make his
fortune. A new piece is being rehearsed at Her
Majesty’s, which is said to be plethoric with
effects, and bubbling over with gore and emotion.
Reverting to the bath question, we hear that Mr.
Rignold’s chief object in producing the water-
scene in connection with “Lights o’ London ” was
to legally preserve certain dramatic rights for
which he, not long since, paid a large sum, and in
respect of which a law-suit is now proceeding.
## # #
Mr. Sydney Dickinson continues to lecture
“instructively ” at the Sydney Temperance Hall.
On Monday he described the fascinations of “ St.
Petersburg and the Art-Palace of the Hermitage,”
but the audience was much thinner than the lec-
turer deserved. The stereoscopic reproductions
of the pictorial treasures of the Romanoffs were
very fine indeed, and in themselves worth far more
than the price of admission. Mr. Dickinson’s pro-
nounced American-Scotch accent doesn’t “grow”
upon us—we could do with a little less of this
tender plant. There is rather too much eccen-
tricity and roughness in his pronunciation to
please ears accustomed to the perfect phrasing and
cultured modulation of a speaker of the calibre of
say Mr. Charles Clarke.
* * *
Talking of lecturers, it is sad to hear
that Archibald Forbes is now a mere wreck
of his once stalwart self —grey-headed, bent,
and unable to move even across a room without
support. The cause is said to be kidney-disease,
which troubled Mr. Forbes even so far back as the
period of his Australian tour.
4 « X 4^
•7V* *7r W '7V'
The Sydney Academy of Music is at pre-
sent filled to the brim by Hiscocks’- Federal
Minstrels and Friedman’s Speciality Troupe.
Sam Keenan is the main prop of the show, but
one cannot help painfully missing the humour of
Bent, and Lawton’s extravagance, notwithstanding
the immeasurable comedy of Keenan’s facile
mouth. One misses, too, in the solo-songs, poor
old Amery’s rich and rounded baritone which,
when employed in describing the pleasures of
dead and gone “Good Company,” always made
the men husky and the girls take out their hand-
kerchiefs and wipe their eyes on the sly. But,
for all that, the show is a good one. Keenan
is a true comedian and makes unlimited fun
out of the most trivial bit of business, and
the Borani Brothers are without exception the
best in their line we have ever seen in Aus-
tralia. They are refined in their contor-
tions, and have none of the callow, meaty
butcher-boy element which seems an almost un-
avoidable concomitant of the professional athlete.
They combine a certain amount of comedy with
their joint-dislocating which takes the rough edge
off the disfigurement process. The “Presto”
sketch is rather wearisome, and in our opinion
Miss Lily Laurel spoils the show. No woman is
charming in the commonplace togs of every-day
man, and as the representation lacks humour,
grace, or wit, there is really no reason why those
who wait to see the final laughable farce should be
compelled to sit through what obviously pleases
no one.
*# # #
In “ Modern Wives ” Brough and Bouci-
cault are .still giving lessons in matrimonial obedi-
ence to dissatisfied better-halves at the Sydney
Criterion. They advertise “Jim the Penman’
for early production, “ on a scale of perfection
never before witnessed in these colonies.”
## * *
R. S. Smythe loves greatness. two
largest ladies at present in Sydney are Miss Von
Finkelstein and Miss Alice Barnett. This time
last year the ■“ Much-Travelled ” was managing
the talented contralto in New Zealand. He is
now managing the gifted Native of Jerusalem
here. It isn’t always the biggest man who best
manages a big woman.
#* # #
Miss Lydia Mamreoff von Finkelstein—a
large and massive lady, to match her large and
massive name—opened in Sydney on Monday
last at the Y.M.C.A. Miss Yon Finkelstein is a
lecturer on Biblical themes, who makes a compro-
mise between the Church and the Stage, and
delivers illustrated essays on the Holy Land in
various costumes of a more or less theatrical
character. She possesses what the average woman
does not —humour, and, therefore, has a great pull
over most of her sex and over all the clergy. Her
success is assured because she speaks well, makes
vivacious little sallies, has a fine commanding pre-
sence, is in the main desperately in earnest, and
“ dresses her part,” as they say in the chambers
of the divorce-court lawyer. She thus nets the
godly on the one hand and the profane on the
other, and need we say that her business is well-
engineered by the Much-Travelled between the
Scylla of parsondom and the Charybdis of ungod-
liness! During Miss Von Finkelstein’s Mel-
bourne season The Bulletin described at length
both her manner and matter. Her Sydney
show is a nice godly little entertainment, calcu-
lated to strengthen the constitution of the pious
and warranted not to bring a blush to the cheek
of shame or to cause modesty to cast its eyes up
at the little Cupids on the ceiling. It is also cal-
culated to make millions for the management.
«y,
"A' -TV- 'A'
A neat little story is told of a new-chum
agent who hired himself out to the massive biblical
lecturer, Miss Von Finkelstein, when that charm-
ing Scripturalist was holding forth in Liverpool.
The agent had gained his experience in advertising
the attractions of buskined Thespians and the
bare-legged ballet and, of course, as of jovial yore,
distributed his posters amongst the servants of
Silenus. When the evangelical tragedienne struck
that town she was horrified to notice, hanging on
the door-spreen of every little boozey three-decked
pub., a big-lettered bill with the paralysing an-
nouncement : “ Homes and Haunts,” etc.
Ak Air At* At*
Tv* '7Y* */V* W
At Sydney Opera House Miss Ada Ward
was on Saturday last still fighting a dreary battle
MR. R. J. AGINTON.
(A CHAMPION SKATER.—See page 18.)
against her adverse fate in “Bright Hope.” With
the exception of Messrs. Frank Gerald and Harry
Power, Miss Ward has practically no support.
Genuine actress as she undoubtedly is, the whole
of the work of maintaining the interest of the
public throughout a long and wearying piece is too
much for her. It would be too much for a
Siddons. The piece is bad, the scenery is worse;
the company is thin, very thin, and the audience
is nightly getting no larger.
*# # *
At the Sydney Academy : Sam Keenan, of
the Feds., at the end of a telephone in Australia
connected with Lombard-street, London (to the
charcoal brethren assembled) : “Stan’ up! Stan’
up! Can’t you stan’ up ? Bow, I say; bow,
Can’t you ?” Interlocutor Howe (sitting down):
“Well, what did you make us stand up and bow
for?” Sam Keenan : “ Why, you darned fool, the
Queen was passin’.” There is in this a huge
political allegory.
## # #
Sydney Alhambra is the joyful possessor
of two clever charcoal comedians who rejoice in
the bill-names of Hanson and Field. It has
always been a puzzle to us to say which is Hanson
and which Field. One is tall and lean, the other
short and fat One looks like an air-scraper with
the racial characteristics of a fire-escape. The
other revels in a rotund obtuseness of personality
and a fatty irritability of temperament which
bubbles out of his frame and floods over into the
orchestra , and convulses the audience with laughter.
Be he Hanson or Field he is the beau ideal of
Nast’s Blacktown blackamoor, or of the negro
humorist that opaqueifies the pages of Peck.
** * *
Melbourne Exhibition concerts made a
somewhat unpromising start on Friday. Two
orchestral performances, afternoon and evening,
realised a gate of £25 25., and as Conductor Cowen
draws a salary of £32 per day, it is probably as
well that the show is backed up by the Victorian
revenue. Otherwise it might peter out distress-
fully amid the moans of higher culchaw —like our
Parisian-accent Comedy Company. However,
there is time enough to so fix up the western nave
of the main Exhibition building that most of the
melody shan’t sneak out unawares and get lost
among the exhibits, and then Mr. Cowen’s un-
doubted worth (£192 a week) will be fully under-
stood. Meantime, it is rumoured that Sir James
Macßain desires to tone down the severity of a
strictly classic season with something Scottish, ye
ken—one of Kennedy’s “nichts wi’ somebody,”
for instance. But they can’t have imported Mr.
Cowen from England to conduct the “bogpeeps.”
** * *
“ Comrades ” is likely to last another
week or two at the Bijou, thanks to a company
strong at all points. Girls are earnestly requested
to take a lesson in love from Miss Lilian Gillmore
before entering upon the battle of married life,
after which their husbands will never stay late at
the pub. Titheradge is just now the lucky man
who wins the priceless pearl of Miss Gillmore’s
stage affection. And when that tender incarna-
tion of maidenly innocence falls, like the dew from
Heaven, upon Titheradge’s chest, a lump comes
in the throat of every man present, and they all,
with one accord, would like to see the other
fellow drop dead.
## # #
The Exhibition has not yet begun to un-
dermine the constitutions of Melbourne shows in
general. “Miss Esmeralda,” temporarily shaky,
is now going as strong as “ Monte Christo ” at the
plushy Princess’s. Nellie Farren, who is pro-
bably a lot wiser than the serpent in the wilder-
ness, has dropped some of the early business which
weighed her down, and become again a joy for
ever all the time. One of her costumes is an epic
poem set in brilliants, and gets encored every
night. Barring Miss Farren and Fred Leslie,
nobody works more conscientiously than Letty
Lind, a clever damsel who appears to have a
higher purpose in life than the casting of deadly
glances at some invisible fellar at the wings,
which is a trying complaint rather prevalent
among Gaiety goddesses. Miss Marion Hood
sings very sweetly and very seldom. Messrs.
Danby and Fred. Storey keep popular as ever,
and the fascinating Sylvia Grey ends her per-
functory performance with a marvellous skipping-
rope dance. There is also a chorus deserving of
jam, but no time for spreading it. “ Jack and
I ” has already dried up at the Royal. To-night
(Thursday) and to-morrow night the Roscians
wrestle with Immortal William in the extenuating
cause of charity, and on Saturday Carrie Swain
challenges serious criticism in “ Little Nell.” She
plays two characters—consumptive Nell and the
Marchioness who sleeps among the coals. John
Gourlay will do Quilp, poor Fred. Marshall’s old
part.
## # #
Miss Amy Sherwin, having polished off
her subscription season, was to further tempt for-
tune with “Der Freischutz ’ on Tuesday night.
But Opera House promises sometimes go astray,
and it has happened that parties booking for
“Martha” find themselves carried to “Mari-
tana ” Therefore, we wouldn’t place our bottom
dollar on “ Der Freischutz ” before the flag falls.
Something is going on at the Alexandra, and the
rival Halls are full of comic song and step-dance.
Also, the Waxworks is much affected by country
visitors, who worship the graven images which
Nebuchadnezzar has set up.
*# * *
The French Comedy Company sadly and
badly need the benefit which is to be tendered
them in Sydney. Benefits, by the way, are all
very well, but two-thirds of the money generally
evaporates in expenses. Let a collection be made
first, a benefit given afterwards on behalf of these
foreigners stranded in a strange land. When the
benefit is given, let us hope that the Triumvirate,
with their accustomed generosity, will lead the
way.
## # #
When Langtry is not quarrelling with her
leading men she disagrees with her managers.
She has just dispensed with Keogh, the
business-manager—who was in Australia, we re-
member, years agone.
## # #
Walter Lennox, succeeds W. T. Keogh.
It was at one time thought that the active Keogh
would not cut his connection with Mrs. L. until
he had engineered her through Australia, which
he thoroughly knows from Hobart to Brisbane.
## # #
From Modern Society (London): —Mr.
C. Haddon Chambers, a young gentleman who
hails from the land of kangaroos, gum-trees, and
bushrangers, should consider himself as born under
a lucky star. Mr Chambers wrote a play and has
got it.acted by some of the most conscientious and
talented actors in London, and at a theatre famous
alike for its fashionable associations and for the
artistic care bestowed on all its dramatic product-
ions. There is no denying the fact that “ Captain
Swift,” the play in question, produced at the
Haymarket one afternoon last week, is both power-
ful and cleverly-conceived, and there is little doubt
that sooner or later it will occupy the evening bill
at that house. [This prophecy has been fulfilled.
—Ed. B.] The plot of the story will be called
conventional by those who assert that every plot
has been utilised long ago. Let this be as it may,
it is treated with decided freshness and in the best
spirit of dramatic writing. “ Captain Swift” was
undoubtedly a big success, partly on account of
its own merits and partly because Mr. Beerbohm
Tree and Mr. E. H. Macklin gave the audience a
taste of some excellent acting which they were not
slow to appreciate. Lady Monekton, too, was
excellent, and her growns were unanimously voted
superb.
Air Ate
Tv* TV* TV* TV*
“I notice in several of my contemporaries
an advertisement of Minnie Palmer’s back. This
is as it should be, it being an accepted rule in
theatrical advertising that people’s most attractive
features should be prominently put forward.” —
English paper.
*# # *
Old Wallace, the respected lion of Mel-
bourne Zoo., died a few days ago. Peace to his
manes,
## # #
Bailley Campbell’s death is announced by
cable. He had long been dead to the world.
** # #
A three-act farce called “Kleptomania”
has been most successfully produced in London,
It should take well in Melbourne. The Trium
virate will no doubt seize the opportunity.
** # *
The receipts for Melbourne Exhibition
opening day were over £2OOO. This was fair, con-
sidering we are a nation of deadheads.
*# # #
The “ Golden Farmer,” staged at the Mel-
bourne Alexandra last week, has a second name—
“ The Last Crime.” The company is supposed to
have been converted by the Salvation Army.
*# # #
A number of lady musicians up South
object to being “ conducted ” by a man who they
say has misconducted himself. At this rate, we
are afraid all concerts will shortly be stopped.
#* # *
At the 'Adelaide Royal, Francis William
Shakesbaconspere is once more to the front in a
piece which he specially wrote for Plain Bill Hol-
loway and his beauteous relative. The Austrian-
chair of repentance has been deserted by the
dudes of devotion, and all the people who
don’t consider the job too good for them
have gathered round to roll the log of
success in the cause of Essie the divine.
“As You Like It ” is the particular
dramatic tipple at present on tap, and the busi-
ness done by the playful Plain Bill is as good as
might be expected—in Adelaide. “Twelfth
Night,” “Ingomar,” “ Pygmalion and the rest of
it ” —in which Essie benefits as Galatea—and
“ The Flying Scud ” are all down to unfold their
little tales in various rates of consecutiveness
before the boards of “ Garner’s ” take a long fare-
well to big Plain Bill and all his budding great-
ness.
#* # #
Billy Emerson has leased a new ’Frisco
theatre which he calls the Bijou.
*# * *
Nina Boucicault is in New York re-
hearsing for the lead in “A Legal Wreck.”
*# # #
London Society thinks that Nellie Farren
and her company are “lowering themselves ” by
visiting Australia, which it regards as a “one-
horse kind of country.” As regards the latter in-
sinuation we consider that it is a remarkably good
thing for the horse, anyway. There is room for
one horse here, but if an animal of that size got
into England he would stick over at the sides in a
way which would inevitably prove fatal. Pos-
sibly if the Society man had been mixed up in
the mad riot for tickets at Nicholson’s warehouse
in Melbourne, when the box-plan opened for
“ Miss Esmeralda,” and had been trodden on a
few times, he might have gone away and offered
up even worse observations.
*# # *
A very popular low comedian, with a good
London reputation, was once cast for what he
thought was a part beneath his merits. So in a
state of fume and fret he walked into the
manager’s office and poured forth his grief. The
manager waited until the wrathful low comedian
had finished ; then, turning to the “ gag mer-
chant,” said : “ All right, my boy, you put on a
disguise-beard and we won’t put your name in the
bill.” This to a man with a reputation was too
much, and in speechless indignation he walked
out of the office. Yet he made a great hit out of
the part he had despised. This happened at the
Gaiety Theatre, London, when John Hollingshead
was its manager. Never mind who the comedian
was, but he is in Australia at present.
## # #
Miss von Finkelstein will give an “At
Home ”at the Oxford Hotel on Saturday after-
noon.
#* # #
Dave Carson is “ doing ” India with
“ Uncle Sam’s Birthday.” The veteran Maccabe
was so ill that he couldn’t open at Newcastle as ad-
vertised in his entertainment of “Begone Dull
Care.” An unplaceable foreigner with a twang in his
name, Mr. Imre Kiralfy, has made arrangements
for the production of a pagan show at Staten
Island, New York. It is called “ Nero, or the
Fall of Rome,” and it takes 2500 people to hold
up its train. Most of the dialogue is spoken by
the leg, whose part is entrusted to 1000 “ houris” —
“houris” is the stage term for ballet-girls how
are paid at the rate of £2 per week. The stage
has a superficial acre of 12 acres, and the show
corruscates at night beneath the effulgent rays of
the electric spark. Signor D. de Vivo has ar-
ranged for the re-appearance of the much-married
lima de Murska in a series of Sunday concerts at
New York. Poor Charles O’Brien, erstwhile
of the Sydney Royal, after playing in
the States with Dion Boucicault, died the
other day at Fordham (U.S.), and was
buried in the Actors’ Fund plot at Evergreen’s
Cemetery. Janauschek does not intend to retire
from the stage for many years to come, if she can
help it. Gracie Plaisted and Charles Harding are
expected to make tracks ffor ’Murka at an early
date, and Sophie Harris will shortly jbe charming
the dudes of ’Frisco with her generous proportions.
*# * #
J. K. Emmet has just closed a good season
in the States.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
MOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Personal Items.
It is said that Dr. Morell Mackenzie is to
have a peerage.
Pritchard Morgan has put his Welsh gold-
mines on the market for £210,000.
Mrs. Langtry has bought a farm in Cali-
fornia, next to Gebhardt's estate.
Parnell’s only recreation is cricketing. He
must, however, get some good fun out of the
Tories.
Griffith is an unprofessing agnostic in
religion, and thinks that Swinburne is a better
poet than Tennyson.
Hon. Geoffrey Eagar, the N.S.W. Under
Secretary for Finance and Trade, was once a lead
ing Sydney pressman.
All the cabled fuss about Explorer Stanley
will, in the long run, probably prove to be a lec
ture-advertising boom.
Mark Twain writes: —“The man that
rolls MSS. (instead of packing it flat) ought to go
to the devil —and will.”
There are now two Dowager Empresses
of Germany, and if Sir Morell Mackenzie is to be
believed there may soon be a third.
Horace Greely’s partner in establishing
the New York Tuibine— Thomas M'Elrath —
recently died in obscurity at the age of 81.
Last Sunday Premier Parkes dined with
Dan O’Connor. The latter leaves for England
this month—to promote a statue to somebody, it
is said.
Queen Victoria wrote to the German Em-
press-Dowager :—“ Your beloved husband bears
with him to the tomb the last smiles of my life.
Victoria.”
A certain Australian bachelor turfite who
has £30,000 a year of his own carries his misogyny
to such a length that he never hires a cabman who
drives a mare.
“An Admirer” informs The Bulletin
that the acting Inspector-General of N.S.W.
Police, Mr. George Read, 30 years ago entered
the force as a private constable.
Rev. Canon Allwood, of St. James’,
Sydney, appears in the N.S.W. blue-book as
having been in receipt of an annual Government
allowance of £2OO ever since 1840.
Kinnaird Rose; editor of Brisbane
Courier, has gone down for a well-deserved
change to Melbourne Exhibition. This is his
first visit to the Southern metropolis.
A subscription is being raised for the
family of the late Matthew Arnold, who died
penniless, and whose wife has been deprived of
the State pension enjoyed by her husband.
An elderly_native lady—white—with an
historical name, has just passed away at Par-
ramatta—Louisa Australia Blaxland, aged 80,
daughter of John Blaxland, of Newington.
Mr. Fergus Hume has a book in the press
illustrating life on the Ballarat goldfields. It is
dedicated to Mrs. John Whiteman, known in
mining and certain literary circles as Miss Corn-
well.
Tempora mutantur. Not so very long ago
Dan. O’Connor was laying the cold meat on the
cold stone. Now he is laying the cold stone on
the cold meat. He has three statues more or less
in hand.
Dr. M‘Gregor, the new Governor of British
New Guinea, is the holder of a Clarke gold medal
of the Royal Humane Society of Australasia for
saving life, the only gold medal yet awarded by
the society.
G. R. Dibbs attracted a good deal of atten-
tion at the opening of the Centennial Exhibition.
He was the only man present who wore a skull-
cap. People take more notice of Dibbs’ skull-cap
than they do of his deficit.
There is a Civil Servant in N.S.W.
named William Tell Windeyer. The Windeyer
family were originally Swiss. Some of the criminal
law dispensed by his Honor the judge of that
name is certainly not too English.
Mr. William Westgarth, a pioneer of Port
Phillip, who is amongst us again after 30 years’
absence, stated at a public banquet in his honour
at Melbourne, that all that remained of the city
that he knew was the names of the streets
Sainted Sangbleu ! Reginald Wilberforce
Gerald Jones was charged at Croydon with
having no visible means of support (Q). A man
with a name like that ought to be able to realise
£5OO a year by letting it out for boys to pelt stones
at.
Admiral Rous, the great English racing
authority, when in the Navy, was stationed in
Port Jackson in 1825, and explored the Richmond
and Clarence Rivers. He imported the English
sire Emigrant, and thus influenced the Australian
turf.
Of all the Governors of N.S.W. Mac-
quarie reigned the longest—from Ist January,
1810, till Ist December, 1821—nearly 12 years ;
and Bligh the shortest, 17 months. In later years
Belmore made his pile quickest, as he remained
but four years.
An ancient colonist has just departed.
Mrs. Ann Martin was a native of Windsor
(N.S.W.), where she was born in 1802. Her hus-
band died a couple of years ago, aged 91. She
has left 11 sons and daughters and 194 grand and
great grandchildren.
Old Jack Robertson told a Melbourne
Herald interviewer that “the holding of the Ex-
hibition is due mainly, if not wholly, to jealousy
of New South Wales.” The beknighted old man
then went on to observe that if N. S. Wales chose
to act in a selfish manner, magnificent (with
a sneer) Melbourne would, in less than five
years, be reduced to a mere fishing village. As
Sir John’s mania is well-known, it was unfriendly
on the part of the Herald to ask for his crazy
“opinions,” and publish them in their naked
absurdity.
Dr. Zukertort, the great German chess-
player, died suddenly in London recently, of
apoplexy. The proceedings at the inquest seem
to show that while he was excited by play he
neglected to partake of food. At the post
mortem examination his stomach was found to be
quite empty. He had not enjoyed good health
for some time.
Little has been said about the wife of the
present Emperor of Germany. It is understood
that the Empress Augusta Victoria, unlike her
grandmother-in-law and her mother-in-law, in-
terests herself almost exclusively in her family
circle. “Her husband is the sort of young man
who will see that she minds her own business,”
says an Italian paper.
The Australasian J udges have assembled
in conference at Melbourne with Sir Frederick
Darley as President. In all colonial Conferences
the custom has been to appoint as chairman the
principal man of the colony where the Conference
is held. Thus Chief Justice Higinbotham should
have been President at Melbourne. How was it
that the usual custom was departed from in this
instance ?
It is a curious fact that Mr. Willie Warde,
of the “Little Jack Sheppard” Company, and
Mr. Fred. Storey of the London Gaiety who
accompanies Miss Nellie Barren to Australia, are
the two best dancers in England and are both of
them also sons of welbknown artists and Royal
Academicians. In the chain of evolution does
the dexterity of the hand in one generation get
into the feet of the next ?
A SOURCE OE INSPIRATION.
GENTLEMAN (to friend in velvet jacket and smoking cap, who is engaged in painting the
palings in front of his cottage): “AH, FITZJONES, I SEE YOU’VE GOT ’EM
ALL ON.”
FITZJONES: “YA-AS, I ALWAYS DRESS IN THIS FASHION WHEN I’M
PAINTING—IT’S A CUSTOM WITH US ARTISTS. SEEMS TO GIVE A
FELLOW INSPIRATION, YOU KNOW.” (Dabs another half-pound of green-
paint on the gate-post and is happy )
It is rumoured that Hardie BuzacoU,
managing director and third part proprietor of
the Brisbane Ne vspaper Company (Courier
Queenslander, and Observer) thinks of retiring
from his post. He has for years been a martyr to
dyspepsia—not N.S W. parliamentary dyspepsia
—bub has an indomitable spirit. He prides him
self now in having founded (we forget how many)
papers all of which are still solvent.
Fir Alfred Stephen has for 15 years drawn
£lB2O a year as pension for his services as N.S.W.
Chief Justice, a total of £27,300. When in 1873
the ex-Chief took a pathetic farewell of the Bench
and Bar he stated that he retired to make way for
younger men as he felt that Nature denied him
very few remaining years. Yet he has outlived
his successor and not a few of the lawyers who
assembled to bid him farewell, and he looks as if
he had a good many years left yet albho’ he is 86.
News comes from Victoria of the death
at dinner by choking, of an old-time public man.
Mr. John Houston was member for Crowlands
and Minister for Railways in Richard Heales’
“ People’s ” Ministry in 1861. It was said that
Mr. Houston, like single-speech Hamilton, only
delivered one speech, that speech being an ironical
“hear, hear,” while Mr. J. S. Johnstone was ad-
dressing the House on a vote of want of confidence
in Dick Heales and his Government. Mr. Hous-
ton had been out of politics for over a quarter of a
century.
The late Emperor William of Germany
used only two swords and one sabre throughout
his long fighting career, says a faithful historian.
It seems that his second sword carried him right
through his hand-to-hand combats up to 1866,
when he adopted a sabre, which was not quite
worn but when he yielded up the ghost. We
should have thought that a single-bladed pen-
knife was as much weapon as the old gentleman
required to do all the fighting that came his way.
But perhaps William wore out the swords cutting
his Imperial tobacco, and putting a fresh edge
on ’em
Some of the professors of Melbourne
University are getting disgustingly rich. Pro-
fessor Kernot (an eligible bachelor, by the way)
was able the other day to present the Council
with a donation of £3OOO to endow a scholarship,
and Professor M‘Coy has been singularly lucky in
land speculation. Then there is Professor Elking-
ton, who, beside drawing his £l2OO from the
University, is scraping together a snug little
practice at the bar—very much to the disgust of
some of his old students. Probably the poorest
connected with the University man—taking all
things into consideration—is the Venerable Chan-
cellor, Dr. Brownless.
History repeats itself. The latest London
sensation is the marriage of the Dowager Duchess
of Montrose, known in sporting circles as “ Mr.
Manton.” The duchess, who was born on July
25, 1799, and is consequently 89 years of age
—surely this can’t be quite true !—married
the fourth Duke of Montrose in 1836, and two
years after the death of the duke in 1874 she mar-
ried Mr. Wm. Stuart Stirling-Cranford, who died
on February 24, 1883. The bridegroom on the
present occasion is Mr. Marcus Henry Miller, son
of Mr. Henry Selby William Mdner, of West
Retford House, Notts, and brother of the Countess
of Durham; He is only 24 years of age.
The Earl of Pembroke (of “South Sea
Bubbles ” fame) has been quarelling with the
editor of the new Universal Review for having
altered an article of his on “The House of Peers;”
The Earl complains that the essay had originally
pretentions to “ coherency, force, and style.”
As it appeared, “ after editorial revision,” he can
discover “ none of these essential qualities.” The
Earl has, it is surmised, been stung by the criti-
cism of an evening paper, which calls his article
“gossip.” The Universal Review, which is
destined to make a stir in the world, is edited by
Harry Quilter, the youth whom Miss Fortescue
jilted in favour of Gumboil, who afterwards jilted
her and paid smartly for so doing.
Mr. Samuel Revans, the oldest of N.Z.
journalists, who has just died, had a most remark-
able career. He went to British North America
about 1826, and, in partnership with Mr. H. S.
Chapman, founded two or three newspapers. The
Montreal Daily Advertiser, started by Mr.
Chapman, was subsequently the property of the
firm, and was the first daily published in Canada.
After Mr. Chapman had left, Mr. Revans became
mixed up in the Papineau insurrection, and had
to clear out with a price set upon his head. In
N.Z., years afterwards, Re vans came acrosa the
officer who “wanted” him in Canada, and was
told that had he been caught he would most
certainly have been hanged. Mr. Revans arrived
in N.Z. nearly 50 years ago. The first issue of
his paper, the N.Z. Gazette, was published in
London, and the second on April 18, 1840, at Port
Nicholson. Mr. Revans was at one time a rich
man, but died very poor. The Henry Samuel
Chapman here alluded to was a prominent figure
in the colonies, and in the matter of judgeship
rivalled Mr. Purves’ “ Journeyman.” During his
tenure of judicial office in N. Z. Mr Chapman suffered
a terrible domestic affliction. With the exception
of one son, who had remained in England, the
whole of the family went down in the steamship
London in the Bay of Biscay in 1866. Mr. Chap-
man, who married a second time and retired on
pension, died a few years ago in Dunedin.
Parsonal Pars.
No less than 14 colonial bishops attended
a recent meeting of the Society for the Propaga-
tion of the Gospel at St. James’s Hall, London.
The free-seats in church are a sort of
steerage accommodation, on the voyage to Heaven,
for poor folks, while the rich ones have the saloon.
Brisbane Y. M C. A , after a painful
wrestle, have ju3t decided that “Trades Unions
do not benefit the community.” This is rough on
the Christian Ministers’ Union.
A High Church rector in New York has
concluded to abandon the confessional, as nobody
comes to it except women, and he cannot waste
three hours a day in listening to smuggling stories
any longer.
Rev. Gibb, a Dunedin Presbyterian clergy-
man, objects to the devil “ being politely alluded
to as the ‘ old gentleman. ’ ” Mr. Gibb may yet
have an opportunity of learning that politeness,
which costs nothing, makes many friends.
From a sermon by Rev. Culpepper, a
Georgia Revivalist “I would rather be a negro
with red eyes, kinky wool, boneless nose, and a
hollow of the foot that makes a hole in the ground,
than play poker till 1 o’clock in the morning and
go home and deceive my wife about it.”
If some one who knows would explain
why there is so much more coughing to the square
inch in a church congregation than in a theatre
audience he would solve a much-vexed question of
the hour. Can it be that people don’t go to
church until they have become tuberculous ?
A Yankee clergyman was once interrupted
in the midst of a public prayer by a man who
shouted, “Louder !” Reed stopped short, looked
at the interrupter, and said, coolly, “ I wasn’t ad-
dressing you, sir. I was addressing the Al-
mighty.” Then he went on with his prayer.
Rev. Fitchett, of Dunedin (N.Z.), says :
“ The present tendency of the young to race round
on roller-skates, is an unhappy augury of the
gradual deterioration of the national character. It
tends to frivolity, an undue love of personal indul-
gence, and to all that is evil and worthless.”
It is cabled that, in consequence of serious
charges of immorality against the French monks,
the Chamber of Deputies has drafted a measure
of urgency suppressing the male religious orders
in France. The leader in next week’s Sydney
Protestant Standard ought to be worth reading.
“The infant preacher” is the latest
novelty. “ The Rev. Pascal Porter ” hails from
Indiana, and is just twelve years old, but was not
permitted to enter the ministry until he was nine
years of age. His sermons are said to be logical,
doctrinal, and deep; he draws immense congrega-
tions, and he preaches standing on a stool.
We read that a certain Rev. Edward
Hopper died suddenly while writing a poem on
Heaven. This should be a warning to people who
write on tariffs, English politics, or any subject
of which they know nothing. Mr. Hopper is
probably qualified to describe Heaven ; but when
he sat down to write his poem he was not.
Dean Marriott, preaching at Bathurst
(N.S.W.) a few Sundays ago, took for his text,
“Go up, thou bald-head; go up.” Two of the
most influential members of his flock, whose heads
are as bare of hair as a goose egg, sat jusb in front
of him, and looked as if they would have given all
they held to be able to “ go up”—through the roof.
| JBishop Cowie (Anglican), of Auckland,
N.Z ,is a man of war as well as of peace. As a
military chaplain, he had a distinguished career in
India. He was with Colin Campbell at the cap-
ture of Lucknow, in ’5B; the same year he was
with Sir R. Walpole at Coorsee, Rooyab, and
Bareilly. He was with Gancck against the
Afghans in ’(>3—at the storming of Laloo and the
fight at Chumlah. He wears the Indian and
Afghan medals, with clasps for Lucknow and
Umbeyla. Dr. Cowie was consecrated in 1869.
The latest notion in weddings is a slipper
full of flowers borne by “the bride. The slipper full
of corns is an old idea.
Lady Buchan, who lately died, was one of
the few still living persons who knew Napoleon I.
Her father, Col. Wilks, was Governor of St.
Helena in 1815 at the time of Napoleon’s exile,
and when his term of office expired Miss Wilks
expressed her wish to be presented to the ex-
Emperor. ‘‘ I have long heard on every side of
the beauty and fascination of Miss Wilks,” said
Napoleon to her, “ but I am now convinced with
my own eyes that report has scarcely done you
justice. You must be very glad to get away from
the island,” he added. “Oh, no, sire,” was the
reply, “I am very sorry to leave.” Napoleon
presented her with a bracelet in honour of this
visit. Miss Wilks afterwards married General
Sir John Buchan, -who left her a widow.
A salination.
[It is cabled that Mr. W. E. Gladsfcons, M.P.,
and Mrs. Gladstone, have been the recipients of
overwhelming congratnlationa on the occasion of
their golden wedding.]
With other voices, those from lands that lie
Where Southern suns are glassed in Southern
seas,
Go up with hearty homage unto these
Whose lives are lights along our modern sky.
For he was royal, in the olden sense
Of royalty, and spurned the. easy praise
That comes to those who bend their public ways
To meet acclaim of rank and opulence.
The right that felt itself a losing cause
And wept and bled beneath the feet of foes
His hand was raised for, and his voice arose,
And while it, bell-like, rang—within the lawp,
Encrusted with the crimes of ages— sprang
A Conscience up, and men beheld that words,
That lived as laws, were worse than poisoned
swords,
Or wolves, or vultures, fleshmg beak and fang.
And over Europe, and where South winds sang,
And far to Westward, shone the new, fair form
Of Conscience within Law, and red and warm
Through free men’s veins blood, swift as kins-
men’s, sprang.
And she was royal, too, for suns arose
And showed her where her hand might help or
save
The lives that drifted round the social grave
Where sleeps the woe that shames all other woes.
For fifty years the two have, hand in hand,
Done good, and so, ere voices die away
That in the Northern hemisphere to-day
Salute, aloud salutes this Southern land.


“I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown.
Obtainable from all Chemists Take no substitute.*
POLITICAL
POINTS
There are 40,000 sailors and maritime
labourers on the Australian coast.
The Bathurst (N.S.W.) Orangemen have
begun to violently abuse the Church of England.
The Queen’s message : —“ The Queen
wishes success to the Melbourne Exhibition.
Collect.'’
What is this we hear from Dubbo con-
cerning a certain petition affecting a high legal
authority ?
Of the recent N.Z., loan Berlin took
either £<>oo,ooo or £BOO,OOO. The world’s money-
centre is gradually shifting.
The exemplary Bulcock will proceed with
his political libel suit (which comes off in Brisbane
this month) to the bitter end.
Mr. F. H. Dodgson will shortly establish
and edit the Warwick (Q.) Nationalist an organ
of the coming Australian party.
John Bright has refased, a peerage. That
he should have been offered one shows the con-
tempt in which he is now held by the Tories.
In the Commons the other night T. P.
O’Connor called “Joe” Chamberlain “Judas,”
but afterwards apologised. Apologised to Judas ?
The report that Sir Thomas M‘llwraith
holds shares in the Brisbane Newspaper Company
(Courier, Queenslander and Observer) is in-
correct.
Mr. Richard Teece, actuary to the A M.P.
Society, has been elected President of the Foreign-
trade League of N.S.W. vice Mr, M‘Million,
M.L.A.
“ A Practical Man ” writes to Melbourne
Age advocating protection on “ colonial salt.” If
we can’t make our own salt we aren’b worth our
own salt.
The grand total of the N.S.W. deficit
stands at £2,045,71125. lid. Yet Treasurer Burns
claims that the equilibrium of the finances has
been restored.
“Death from Burns.” That will be the
verdict at the inquest on the bcdy of New. South
Wales, when she is found lying dead outside the
pawnbroker’s shop.
The Queensland Nationalist ladies think
of forming a league of their own, and the dear
creatures have their eye on the wattle. “ Wattle
dames ’’—only fancy !
Dan O’Connor, in writing a congratulatory
letter to Sir Marrowbone M‘Bain re the Centen-
nial Exhibition opening, speaks of the Jennings’
Ministry as “ political Asiatics.”
Nlliil sub sole novi. Eight hundred years
before the birth of Christ the Chinese rode
bicycles, told the time by clocks, shot with guns,
and read their daily newspapers.
At the late caucus meeting of the Queens-
land Liberal party Griffith refused to meet either
Bulcock or Dickson. He is still very bitter about
the part they played at the elections.
Those who so enthusiastically assert the
Australian National Movement to be a Jesuitical
plot will have some trouble in proving that M‘ll-
- came from the South of I reland.
As The Bulletin alone foretold, Perkins
has not received a portfolio in the Queensland
Ministry. Paddy tells all his friends that it was
because “ he was in Melbourne at the time.”
Uncle Abigail is “ reorganising ” the Assay
branch of the N.S.W. Department of Mines. The
Sydney pawnbrokers are in hopes that the
Government Assay Office will shortly be at their
service.
The N. Z. Government have given a pledge
to consider the advisability of executing criminals
by some species of electrical application. ISew
Zealand is 2000 miles nearer America than is
Australia.
A country paper tips the following as
probable members of the next N.S.W. Ministry:
“Suttor, Abbott, Fletcher, Melville, Dibbs, Gar-
van, Lyne, Copeland, Barton, Traill, See, O’Mara,
,and Buchanan.”
John Bright’s son and namesake an-
nounced as the coming Tory candidate for Roch-
dale in opposition to Mr. Potter, the trusted
friend and ally; of his father in the great anti-
, Coin-law campaign.
The biggest and best lpove yet made by
the N S.W. Protectionists is one in the direction
'of establi-hing a club (to be known as the
“ National ”) for the purpose of consolidating and
organising the party.
Pavitt says : “During the last 30 years,
to go no further back in the history of this rob-
bery, no less a sum than £360,000,000 has been
legally stolen by Irish landlordism from the
labours of those who cultivate our soil.”
Each sitting of the Victorian Assembly
costs the calony about £7OO in salaries, exclusive
pf Ministerial expenses. A recent sitting was
iyiainly devoted to the question of licensing the
little boys who go around collecting beer-bottles.
The Queensland Liberal Registration So-
ciety has booked 240 voters on the Townsville
rolls, and Griffith hals been thinking all the way to
Fiji and Melbourne how he will dish M‘ll wraith
at the next session. His Radical friends own that
they’ve given it up.
It is cabled that Blaine thinks “English
advocacy of Mr. Cleveland has injured that
gentleman’s prospects of re-election. ” We wonder
if English Government advocacy (vide cable) of
the cause of Mr. Maxwell, murderer, has injured
that gentleman’s prospects of being hanged ?
Brown (who has been reading an account
of some French political troubles): “ I say, Jones,
what is an Opportunist?” Jones: “One who
mikes the bast use of his opportunities—grabs all
he can get.” Brown: “Then all our politicians
are Opportunists ?” Jones : “ I believe you, my
boy.”
Parkea boasts that he “ was never in an
Orange lodge.” So might the monkey boast that
he was never in the fire. When there is anything
good in the fire the latter gets it by the aid of a
cat or something, and when there are any chest-
nuts in the lodge Parkes gets them by the aid of
a “ brother ” or something.
“ Look at the wages in Germany !” said
ex-Attorney-General Wise in the N.S.W. ’Ouse
last week, and he glanced round triumphantly as
if asking the Protectionists if they didn’t feel
crushed. “Well, what are the wages in Ger-
many?” demanded Melville.” “I don’t know,”
was the answer in a minor key.
Five years ago a steady, hard woiking
farmer commenced tilling in N.S.W. some of the
finest agricultural land in the world. He started
with £5OO. To-day he has neither farm nor
money. His ruin is due simply to two things,
viz., crippling railway-rates and unrestricted com-
petition of sea-borne foreign produce.
There have been 13 Parliaments since the
institution of Responsible Government in N.S.W.,
the shortest being the second, which opened in
March, 1858, and lasted 13 months. The longest
was the fourth, which assembled in January,
1861, and lasted 46 months. The shortest session
on record is that which commenced on May 26,
1883, and ended J une 1 of the same year.
Prince Albert Victor is to be made an
LL.T). Lord Randolph Churchill also comes in
at the fag-end of the list, and the appearance of
his name is accounted for by the fact that there
happens to be an old custom that when a Royal
personage is thus promoted he has the privilege of
nominating a chum or two to keep him company.
What a colossal farce! By the way this is n</t the
first time these names have been coupled.
Apropos of a recent Melbourne scandal,
there would be very little undervaluing of big
estates by executors for probate-duty purposes
were the Governments of the various colonies to
enact that any estate, or portion of an estate,
might be taken over by the State at a slight ad-
f
Th£ U\W' c oJ(f' e> .
Mfe/,
I
(o,^e
°H IVifuO^f
y-
vance on the price at which it was set down by
those interested. An Act of Parliament will
sometimes make people behave as if they were
honest.
Buchanan, M.P. handles Scripture pretty
much the same as a Jackaroo handles a stockwhip
—in 12 tries out of every dozen he succeeds in
taking a hunk out of his own thick hide. Speak-
ing in N.S.W. Assembly during a recent 32 hours’
palaver, he said :
“ There is a passage in the first book of Proverbs which
says that if a fool is only wise enough to hold his tongue,
he has a chance of pissing for a wise man.”
Melbourne Leader— the weekly from the
office of the once-Democratic Age —says “that the
colonies enjoy the unique advantageof reaping what-
ever benefits may be derived from a hereditary
monarchy without paying anything towards its
cost.” Governor Loch gets as much as the Ameri-
can President, and colonial Governorships are
kept as snug billets for dunderheaded lords over
whose estates is the shadow of the three golden
balls. _
Some of the French papers are boasting
of a large Greek order for shells having been
“placed” in France, claiming it as a glorious
victory over the manufacturers of England. As a
proof of English decadence, they point to the
fact that the Isthmus of Corinth is being pierced
without English help, and that the railways of
Greece have been, or are being, constructed by
French, German, or Belgian houses, who have
also supplied the engines and machinery.
The Speaker and the Premier went out of
their way to congratulate Mr. Bent on his re-
covery when he re-appeared in the V ictorian
Assembly. Would he have been thus publicly
congratulated solhe years ago, when he was only
an M.L.A., following the humble occupation of
market-gardener at Brighton ? Since that time
Mr. Bent has made heaps of money in land specu-
lation, and is n6w reported to be a millionaire.
That makes all' the difference, dontcherknow.
The N.Z. Government Life Assurance
Department’s annual report shows that during
the year ended May 31, 3124 policies were issued
insuring £766,9p2—nearly £50,000 in excess of the
business of the year immediately preceding. The
mortality was considerably under expectations,
not withstanding that “accidental” deaths
amounted to 14 per cent, of the whole number !
The interest on invested funds alone more than
paid all the claims that fell in during the year.
Cardinal Moran left Rome for Ireland the
other day. He will be more welcome there this
time than the last. His reddencs in Sydney
seem 3 to have given the Irishman in him a little
longer chain All the time he lived about Dublin
he helped his uncle to salaam. He seeks now to
lead the hierarchy on national questions, bub he
will want to abjure the charm 3 of Dublin Castle
to meet with any success. The bulk of Irishmen
will never t *ke to him while they wear cocked
nose 3 and nails in their boots.
The Victorian Government propose to
adopt penny letter-postage in their colony, dating
from Ist January n»xt. In Victoria a half-penny
postage will continue to be imposed upon news-
papers. In N.S.W. there is a post-office deficiency
for the year of £loo,ooo mainly attributable to the
free carriage by post and rail of foreign-trade daily
newspapers published in the shoddy interest. The
public have to pay double postage on letters in
order that rich newspaper-proprietors may wax
fatter and kick native industry.
The boycott is to be applied to Stratton’s
Hour throughout Victoria. For two years Stratton
has, it is said, resisted the adoption of the eight
hours’ system in his mills at Echuca. The result
is that a number of labour organisations have com-
bined to boycott him. The co-operation of the
Bakers’ Association has been secured. But
Stratton has still a door open. He can export his
flour to Freetrade New South Wales ; and if the
bakers there combine, the Government will buy
the fjour for the public institutions.
“Lynch law is always dastardly, and fre-
quently is a misfit of justice altogether. The New
Jersey mob that took old “Mingo Jack,” of
Eatontown, from gaol, and hanged him, now have
the chance to read the confession of another man,
testifying that he was the perpetrator of the
assault for which Jackson paid this hasty penalty.”
And, just as Lynch law is always dastardly, so is
any ostensibly formal trial dastardly in which the
ordinary deliberation attendant on a judicial hear
ing is set aside and in which prisoners who are
poor and uninfluenbial and defended by cheap or
unpaid counsel' are hounded to conviction amidst
a popular clamour which has seemingly frenzied
the blood of the authorities as of the people. Any
abrogation of the usual forms of justice is das-
tardly and all hasty law is Lynch law. Hasty
law administered in a court is worse than Lynch
law because it puts on just enough gown and
horsehair to disguise its character. Lynch law is
at least honest. It doesn’t pretend to be formally
admipistered justice.'
The Lang monument movement is re-
ceiving great support from the people of Mel-
bourne. If the monument rage sets in in full
force why not recognise the public services of a
man like Bland, or the material benefits received
by Australia from men like Flinders, Allan Cun-
ningham, and Patrick Leslie ? Surely the first cir-
cumnavigator of the continent, and the discoverers
of the great pastoral country of the Queensland
Downs, are worthier public recognition than the
first gaoler, or the first sectarian bigot we have
had ? 1
From Reynolds :—“lf publicans are to
be compensated, so also ought the proprietors of'the
schools ruined by the establishment of the public
elementary schools. On the same principle a
barrister ought to be compensated whose business
is injured by laws reforming legal procedure;
and a civil servant who, like the Custom Home
officers, are called upon to work longer hours with-
out any increase of pay. The legislation of every
year affects injuriously hundreds of traders
throughout the country who, if the morality of
their occupation compared with that of the vendor
of intoxicating liquors be taken into account, have
a much stronger clain to compensation. Bung is
to be compensated because, by his complete organ-
isation, he has made himself a powerful factor in
politics. The Tories are never happy but when
they are using the public taxes on behalf of the
vested interests of cliques and factions. It ought
not to be forgotten that perhaps the majority of
the public-houses in England are in the hands of
the great brewers, and that the proposal of the
Government means, according to Mr. Caine's
estimate, the endowment of the brewers with
between £200,000,000 and £250,000,00(1 cf public
money. Will the people tamely submit to this
robbery by the classes of the masses ?”
Suicide.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They found his body drenched in blobd, and all
the matchless riot
That one time throbbed from head to heart, from
heart to hand-grasp* quiet.
They found her body stark and cold, the rippling
laughter over,
And dead the scorn the scoundrel feared, and dead
the love for lover.
They found his body where the river’s rapid
waters glistened,
And blind the eyes that once had glowed, and
deaf the ears that listened.
And men were called and sworn to say what he in
blood intended,
Who drove the knife into his heart and his exist-
ence ended.
“ Insanity ” the answer was. But what the girl’s
emotion,
Or what the reason that impelled her to the fatal
potion ?
“ Insanity ” the answer was. And he from out
the river
Again “ Insane ” was deemed —and so the twelve
men swear for ever.
But why declare a man insane because he takes
his spirit
To try if elsewhere guerdon is for what has here
no merit '!
Jf worlds beyond this world there be, ’tis simply
emigration ;
And ’tis his right, who’s starved in one, to seek
another nation.
Thus, spite the yerdict under law habitually
meted,
The last deed of the dead may be the sanest they
completed.
Their hands were strong, their brains were strong,
their wills were strong as ever,
But life had lost the light that showed the profit
of endeavour,
And in the night they sought the knife, the poison-
cup, or river.
Sydney.
E. LOWE.
Wealth Easily Acquired,
OVER ONE HUNDRED PER CENT.
PROFIT ON THE INVESTMENT.
If a man is receiving a good liberal share of this
world’s goods he is considered blessed. No greater
blessing does a man want than health, and to
those who suffer the old saying, “Health is
Wealth,” means a great deal more to him than a
mint of money. Warner’s Safe Cure has been
recognised as the only true specific for all Kidney
and Liver Diseases, Urine Disorders, and Female
Complaints, and to be convinced of its value read
the following extracts from letters received by
H. H. Warner & Co., Melbourne.
Newcastle, N.S.W., February Gth, 1888 :
I willingly certify to the sterling merits of
“Warner's Safe Cure,” for when afflicted with a
severe and painful cold in the kidneys, two bottles
of “ Warner’s Safe Cure” restored me to health,
the mt- dicine working like magic, its effect being
instantaneous.
A. W. McLim,
Manager Mercantile Bank of Sydney, Newcastle.
Williamstown, Yictotia, April 19, 1888 :
Two years ago my son was taken ill with a severe
liver complaint, and cramps in the abdomen ; this
state of ill-health lasted until he began the use of
“ Warner’s Safe Cure” and “Warner’s Safe Pills”
which have helped him wonderfnlly. He is quite
sanguine as to a permanent recovery.
Aiexandek McKenzie,
Serjeant Major, Victorian Forces.
West Maitland, N.S.W., February 10th, 1888 :
For three years or more I have greatly suffered
from chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, with
all the indications characteristic of the complaint,
such as great langour, indigestion, and nervous
debility, for which I took a number of medicines
with no prospects of relief. Upon a recent
occasion I took in all three bottles of “Warner’s
Safe Cure” with “Warner’s Safe Pills,” since
which my symptoms of disease have left me. I
am now again in the best of health.
Andrew S. Brown,
Alderman of West Maitland.
La Trobe Terrace, Geelong West, April 2Gth,
1888 For the past four years, disease of liver
and kidney have been indicated by sharp pains
across the small of the back and shoulders, and
heaviness in the chest. At various times I was
so ill that I could not follow my occupation, being
engaged at work on the dredge. The beginning
of last year, however, I resolved on a treatment
of “ Warner’s Safe Cure ” and “ Safe Pill’s ” for
one month. To my pleasant surprise my pains
were entirely alleviated, and I was able to follow
my calling. I have had no occasion to use any
medicines since that date.
W. G. Taylor.
No. 5, Eugene Terrace, Renny-street, Padding-
ton, New South Wales, Jan., 1888:—Seven
months ago, after protracted illness, I was virtually
on the brink .of the grave, gradually sinking with
kidney disease, which medical skill was unable to
conquer. I became almost unable to move, and
while suffering intense pain all over the body could
only lie in a recumbent position. I had not the
slightest hope of recovery. I finally resorted to
“Warner’s Safe Cure,” and after taking three
bottles of it, was able to leave my bed. A few
additional bottles taken in conjunction with
“ Warner’s Safe Pills,” thank God, fully restored
me to health, and my family and friends, who
knew my sad condition, say that my case is one of
the most remarkable on record.
Henry Ferris.
Forty-seven Gertrude street, Fitzroy, Victoria,
April 30, 1888,: —For years I have suffered with
congestion of the liver, inflammation, and jaundice,
leaving behind their debilitating effects. Last
August, most severe pains attacked my back and
hips. I was so prostrated, I could not walk;
various doctors attended me, but to no effect; one
doctor told me I was going into consumption, and
would probably not live six months. I took eight
bottles of “Warner’s Safe Cure,” and two vials of
“ Warner’s Safe Pills,” and I am now in excellent
healtli The medicine saved my life
MRS. SARAH A. MOYES.


urn/ , /
C Pi D
fo (
or % r i,
(etfreW 1 * 1
SOPjtfijirf 1 '
I rf&i :
iff/fnt w'Ay
cr- HA'5
L •s'T'^<o
i'S'Y'a'T'A-.
[i/\c,< Kiev/ - -
<? r fjK/ 0^
Z\ J
'% sp£A<£R
t’fy ...
- E 'r'
ljn^-
t C'tcßtwy-
a rrtAy/£R
>
0^"
A
i
\
°p 4
A |o^i


" p- \JQ
he
sou jus/- r "
fa a ~?s hr?*** ?
~oJ >Sypc£/<-Ci.fe.6jJ
fa ft
y y/ cog -ec SccbcCtcz f/~
7Eooc cSsdsf g" zde OU /
fcctyer<s /o /ft# Cfcee
Cfoed /ccpci’—
9 1) i. ilrrf .
&
* _
1 7\U
CS '3>r 1
/p r s £*/>-/> otDer
6u/g '
~>( $ - p/e/tbSe. fy/c/cJ-fi'fio-'
/? - *yt/i/7$T-fi/e c «_
6* - &fcarcL. ter
7-%<V
t >f
£-£$ c ma.t-h'firy
Can^>0 ,c 7 3 y/ /
7y///
/\M( IfN TVS
our owy.
f
V
y *>V
__>* y
%" <^^iA ere i e CO'? C J-
-/tffCc om£ t ccS . ffb'%
Ct Tbouiccn-d/'f/v& Wo/icler '
(2)/06/be.c/ a.rr fa/ne^.y,
, «r n fyiCLsure*
,no fhCL T „W /
f r>,, j
Profited g , .
6c ty litre cl frrcCo^
Sir Marrowbone MacBain’s Exhibition Supplication.


Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
lor the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a oonstant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-wititk Patknt Rot.msr Ft.ottr is the
best in the market
When next you bake try Pemell’a Snow-white Patent
Hotj.kr Fl.ona. and your bread will be as white as snow
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOR
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTH UMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS :
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £3O.
ESTEY ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability,
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. FAUNS i GO-, Ut.
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O»
Society
Boll[?]e
[?]
Lord Carington says he isn’t going to re?
sign the Governorship of N.S.W. Not much !
Where is the country, where are the people, that
would give a man of his eyebrow £15,000 a year in
money and money’s worth ? Doth the little flea
resign while its thirst is yeb unsated ? Doth the
member of Parliament resign while the bar is
open ? Doth the vampire resign while the big
toe is luscious ? Doth the bull-pup resign whil
the pig hath an ear ? Doth the mosquito resign
while there is in the land a juicy new-chum ? Not
much, dear friends, not much. All these people
and things resign when they are full—and then
they simply drop off. Lord Carington came out
here to chew the colonial pig’s-ear, and make it
squeal “God Save the Queen” in gratitude for
the blood-letting. He will simply drop off when
he’s full. We're full.
* *
The viceregal “suites” had a horrible
drive through Melbourne on the way to the Exhibi-
tion opening. Eighb of these young nobilit.y and
gentry were jammed into one small waggonette,
and sent forth to run the gauntlet of the jeering
multitude, who were especially severe on Sec-
retary Wallington’s nose. In their ill-assorted
crushed splendour, they presented a pathetic pic-
ture of officialdom out for a bank-holiday, so much
so that little boys kept enquiring if they had got
the tucker under the seat, and were quite sure
they hadn’t forgot the mustard. Carington, ac-
cording to all accounts, was much disgusted at
the aides —“our own fellahs, by jove ! ” carted off
to the ceremony in this go-as you-please manner,
and they do say that a gallant member of the
party drew his sword when the waggonette drove
up to Government House, and had “ a good
mind not to get into the van at all, dontcher-
know.” There is precious little pomp and circum-
stance about suites sardined in a ridiculous turn-
out, as suites very clearly understand.
The Melbourne Exhibition opening, re-
garded as a guinea and half-guinea show, did nob
‘ ‘ catch on ” to the paying public. The trouble
started with a long and fortunately inaudible
Erayer, followed by a long period of hymn-singing
y 700 ladies and gentlemen, who praised the
Giver of All with one eye fixed on their music
and the other eye glaring at a stick. It was
noticeable that a large percentage of the audience
drank in this portion of the ceremony with an air
of fatigue. Next came the storming of the dais
by a dreary crowd, one of whom appeared to be
reading something out of a volume that was all
cover, after which His Excellency read something
else and took his reward in the shape of a golden key.
Then guns went off, indicating that the Governor
had used his golden key to open the Exhibition from
outside, but as everybody was inside already
this incident was generally accepted as a sym
bolical perversion of the facts of the case. The
bogus opening now being completed, a gentleman
of no lung power whatever came to the front and
repeated some grovel which the Gov. was then
despatching by proxy (at the public expense) to
his gracious Queen, who has been generally repre-
sented as waiting anxiously for the blessed tidings.
Unfortunately the cable message came to hand in
England about cockcrow time, when her Pre-emi-
nence in Grief was sleeping peacefully. Things
woke up slightly during the performance of a
long-winded cantata and the “Hallelujah
Chorus,” and came to a merciful termina-
tion with “ God save the Queen.” Some
cheering which followed was not sufficiently
universal to drown the sighs of disappointment
and relief from such as had expected a paralysing
pageant, but got only a dull farce for their money.
Even the leading performers seemed to feel the
general depression, and their countenances wore
an aspect of deepest melancholy as they drove
back to Government House, uncheered and
almost unnoticed. Down Exhibition-street, where
the route was lined by militia, the vice-regal pro-
cession passed amid a silence so truly remarkable
that the ultra-“loyal” press said nothing about it.
* * *
How artless a creature is Woman ! From
the S.M. Herald j
MY JACK,—In town ; delighted. Meet Avons out-
side Fresh Food, 12 noon, Thursday.
You see, she wants to meet him just outside the
restaurant. Here you are again, in the Sydney
DT. :
WOULD some kind gentlemen lend £lO to young
widow in great distress repaid by instalments.
Address C. 8., Post-office, Wcollahra.
She is a young widow, you know—golden-haired,
probably—not an old one and hoary. In our
mind’s eye we see the kind gentleman who has
lent the £lO going with the bailiff to collect his
instalments. Once more, from the E. News :
"IyrATRIMONY. —Young, affectionate widow, with
-‘-'J- one child, would like to meet elderly gentleman
with view to the above. Apply, in fi'st instance,
llrgent, Haymarket P.O.
Urgent, eh! / '
The only members of the Victorian
Ministry who wore Windsor uniforms at the
opening of the Exhibition were Deakin and
Lorimer—-none of the others having ever been
presented to the Queen. By the way, we wonder
whether Bookmaker Sutton Sievier would have
worn his Windsor uniform had he happened to
be present.
Melbourne Herald is responsible for
this:—“There was one birth and one death on
board the Cuzco during the passage, the former
was a thi d-class passenger, who expired through
natural causes, and the latter wa3 a person named
Walsh, wko with her husband and family of nine,
had booked through to Brisbane. They were not
in affluent circumstances, and a subscription was
sent to the father.” The husband of a woman
who gebs born at sea (afcer booking through to
Brisbane with a family of nine) deserves a thump-
ing testimonial.
0 * •
Sir Henry Loch has got another hade-kong
from England—Oapting Stanley, my dear.
• •
Governor Loch gratified hla military in-
stincts by calling out all the available Victorian
forces (of which he is Commander-in-Chief, you
must understand) to assist him in opening an In-
dustrial Exhibition. There is no conceivable con-
nection between the products of peace and the im-
plements of war, so the mixing up of cannon with
the trades banners and Ancient-Druids left the
thoughtful observer in doubt as to whether a hun-
dred years of progress had plunged Australia into
a civil war or a sham fight. And, perhaps, it was
their sense of the general unfitness of things which
so demoralised the service on August Ist. Any-
way the gallant militia broke up considerably
after they had been keeping the vice-regal route
clear for a longer time than suited their constitu-
tions. At 2 p.m the army on guard in Exhibition-
street were either smoking wooden pipes or rolling
tobacco between their pilms, without one solitary
exception. Officers on horseback were doing
cigars in accordance with their more exalted
stations, and the whole battlefield reeked with
expectorations. The troops in Flanders never
spat so hard as the militia in Melbourne, we are
prepared to take oath. But those historical
swearers could undoubtedly stand about and look
soldierly for a few hours at a stretch, and we
never heard that they waited for their Com-
mander-in- Chief with a musket in one hand and a
pipe in the other.
* • *
The Manning River (N.S.W.) Times says
that a lately-deceased lady of its district “ was
buried according to the rites of the Mormon
Church. ” Are we to presume from this that she
lived to the rites of the Mormon
NEWLY IMPORTED.
Church ? If so, who and where is the Manning
River Brigham Young ?
• • •
By far the most brilliant sights at the Ex-
hibition opening were the respective beards of J. S.
Butters, ex-Mayor of Melbourne and ex-Prime
Minister to King Thakambau, and Minister for
Justice Clarke, of N.S.W. It was generally con-
sidered, however, that the latter was, if anything,
the more flame-coloured of the two.
*
“A Love-Lost Youth” writes to a Mel-
bourne paper complaining that girls, nowadays,
are only to be caught with sugar, and that love
has degenerated into the worship of the Golden
Calf. Well, a good calf goes a long way with
them, especially with widows.
* *
Macbain’s prayer for the opening of the
Exhibition (a stupid concession to religious bigotry)
was adopted by the Commissioners and ordered to
be said by a majority of one vote only. As hardly
anybody could hear what was being said and as;
programmes were extremely scarce, this now his-
torical supplication was intoned to a running
accompaniment of chattering, tittering, and even
occasional applause, from well-meaning individuals
who thought they were giving the President a lift.
■* * *
An Adelaide (S.A.) spinster of 70 years
standing was recently wedded to the only man
she ever loved, and he was G 3.
« #
The Exhibition ceremonial committee
finally decided, after grave deliberation, that
evening dress should be insisted upon Cat the open-
ing. Then Governor Loch submitted that it
would be absurd to insist upon swallow-tails at
midday, and a tall hat, frock coat, and light con-
tinuations were substituted, the alteration being
duly advertised in the official programme and the
morning papers. Even this modified compliance
with the rules of etiquette, however, was very
liberally interpreted. The representatives of the
Trade and Lab.ur Counfll —sturdy advocates of
Democracy pure and simple—declined to buy
frock-coats for the occasion, and wore beauforts or
sacs just as it suited them, while even among the
alleged higher grades of society “boxers” were
quite as common as belltoppers. Of course every-
body who possessed a uniform —from a constable
to a major-general (there were two of them pre-
sent)—wore it, and those who didn’t revenged
themselves by sneering at this paltry display of
the military spirit in a democratic community.
» • *
A gamecock with a taste for devotion took
possession of a Sydney R.O. church on a recent
Sunday night during service. An acolyte who
was the first to make the discovery, beat a rapid
retreat, knocking down some of the candles in
his flight. Father bravely set out to fight
the foe, which had now began to crow trium-
phantly, and succeeded in carrying it off under
his arm, amid the laughter of an irreverent con-
gregation. His reverence probably likes roast
gamecock.
# * *
The most gorgeous costume worn at the
opening of the Centennial Exhibition was that of
Speaker Davies. The gold embroidery on the black
brocade ground seen from a distance—and that is
how it was seen by most of the people present—
looked a good deal like the dress worn by the
Mikado in the opera. Speaker Davies in his
gorgeous dress —magnificent as it is—will never
exerb such a potent influence on unruly members
as old Peter Lalor with his one arm.
• * *
At the conclusion of an article coinciding
with certain views held by the editor of the Coota-
mundra (N.S.W.) Liberal, the Molong Express
enthusiastically says, '‘Take our hand, Editor
Doidge.” As the name on the Express imprint
is “Marion Leathern,” and Marion happens to be
a charming widow, we are sadly afraid that
this “ Take our hand ” business is merely a doidge.
Anyhow, bachelor editors should be on their
guard. It takes a widow to leathern round during
leap years.
At a recent Auck-
land (N.Z.) flower-show
the Artillery Band was
performing some choice
airs when news was re-
ceived of the sudden death
of the commanding officer
of the district, and out
of respect to the deceased
it was resolved to dis-
continue all music. This
did not please one of
the committee. The
music, he said, had been
paid for, and ought to be
forthcoming. When it
was pointed out to him
that it would be cruelty
to ask a volunteer band to
play under the circum-
stances, h e exclaimed :
“ If the band winna play
I’ll get a Hieland piper
that’ll mak mair noise
than the dizzen o’ them!”
He departed in haste to
carry out his fearful
threat, but fortunately
was not able to carry it
into execution.
* * *
During the recent
Radpiport trial, Rabbi
Moses Sanders stated
that within the last 18
months he had noticed a
change in the fair de--
fendant —she would wan-
der away from the subject
of conversation. He once
asked her for a contri-
bution to a charitable
fund--she gave him several
sovereigns and two shil-
lings, to make up what she
said was five shillings ;
she maintained that the
sovereigns were shillings.
This is indeed a char-
acteristic test as to one’s
sanity. Had the request
been made for pounds,
and Mrs. Rappiport had
tendered shillings, she
would, by the ethics of
the percenthood, have
clearly established a n
alarming amount of compos mentis, and have,been
regarded as assuringly sane.
The most striking figure in the assemblage
which graced the dais at the opening of Mel-
bourne Exhibition was Sir John Robertson, with
his long white hair streaming over his shoulders.
Compared with this Nestor among Australian
statesmen, most of the intercolonial politicians
around him cut very sorry figures indeed, and
even the six Governors seemed to be shorn some-
what of their vice regal dignity.
TIIO N.S.W. tramway t oub!e is a mere
circumstance beside a little ticket incident related
to us the other day. At an up-country station
where the trains wait for breakfast the porters
went along the carriages examining the tickets.
In one carriage an old gentleman was fumbling in
his pockets for the bit of pasteboard, but being
unable to find it he asked the porter to return
when he had examined the others and most likely
he would have it. The porter did so and on
returning found the old gent, still fumbling.
“Why, sir,’’said he, “you have it in your mouth.”
“Ah, so I have !” said the absent-minded one,
“thank you.” The porter checked the ticket and
departed satisfied. A gentleman in the com-
partment casually remarked that memory gets a
little off colour as years come on. “Oh, dear,
nd !” said the old boy, “my memory is good
enough, but you see it was an expired ticket and
I was sucking the date off !”
* * *
When Mr. H. J. King, the composer of
the pr'zB Cantata, left Sandhurst so suddenly a
few weeks ago, he little thought that he would
shake hands with Lady Loch, the leader of Vic-
torian sassiety, at the opening of the Exhibition.
It is always the unexpected that happens, as Dan
O’Connor, or somebody, says.
* - *
A few very distinguished colonists at
the Melbourne Exhibition ceremony put their
tongues in their cheeks, and calmly closed one eye,
when Sir James Macßain came to this touching
passage in the official prayer—“We give Thee
hearty thanks, that in Thy gracious providence
Thou didst guide our fathers to this exceeding
good land—a land flowing with milk and honey.”
Talking of honey, who has not heard the story
told by a wealthy Victorian Of how he happened
to be guided to this exceeding good land ? It was
a tradition in his native English village that any-
one who stole a hive of bees would make his for-
tune. The colonist in question stole a hive of
bees and was sent to Australia by the next convict-
ship. And he certainly did make his fortune,
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken in the
ancient prophecy.
* * •
It is stated in the Press that when J ohann
Abraham, the soi-disant Persian priest, was
arrested in Sydney last week he had in his pos-
session a certificate from the local Persian Consul.
If so, the Consul must have been grossly deceived
in the matter by this clever impostor. We pre-
sume that Mr. Woodhouse is an accomplished
Oriental scholar, but we have often wondered how
he ever managed to secure his present distin-
guished position at the hands of a Mahommedan
potentate in face of the fact that the Moslem
abhorreth pork and that no better pigs (nor sheep
and cattle for the matter of that) than those bred
by the hospitable Woodhouse family are grown in
Australia.
* * *
“ The growing brightness of woman and
the increasing dullness of man,,” says the Aus-
tralasian, “is the most notable feature of modern
life.” Ye 3, it is now easy to be seen who pays for
the hats. The terrible strain is beginning to tell.
* » *
At Merriwa (N.S W.) the B.C. community
were recently preparing to receive their Bishop
whose advent, as he only visits that part of his
diocese about once in seven years, is always made
a day of great rejoicing. On thi3 occasion, how-
ever, the festivities attendant on his presence
were somewhat marred. On the Sunday preced-
ing the Bishop’s arrival the good shepherd in
charge said that it was his intention to mark the
occasion by arranging a strictly private dinner, and
that only those bidden were to have the privilege
of gorging themselves forninst his lordship. Of
course every member of his congregation wished
to attend, and some very nasty things were said
about the good pastor by those who expected
but did not receive invites, and when it
transpired that the invitations were con-
fined to the “ swells ” of the district
(principally belonging toother denominations) the
exasperation of the priest’s people rose to a
veritable rebellion. As this state of things
threatened to continue, the pastor had to recall
and re-issue the invitations, upon which he
deemed it advisable to write the little phrase “not
transferable,” as he naturally thought the “ bhoys”
would try every scheme to get to the luncheon.
He afterwards sought to appease them by stating
that all might come to the ground, but that those
not specially asked would have to “ bring their
own tucker.” The consequence was that a repast
prepared for 50 persons had only a dozen to chew
at it, including four gentlemen in cloth. Next
day the Bishop returned home, and went out by a
A BALLADE OF MONTE CHRISTO.
I ask, and an answer I beg you’ll give,
You who have seen them and heard them play,
“ Which —tho’ much for a space must live—
Is the best thing memory bears away ? ”
Mercedes’ song by the calm, blue Bay ?
Or the jests when Noirtier and Villeforb meet?
Or the girls who gaze on the crowded Quay
At the comical caper of dancing feet ?
Or the squeeze that at end of the lovers’ tiff
Make ample amends for the dude’s delay ?
Or the pert young prisoner of Chateau d’lf ?
Or the trick that he played on washing-day ?
Or Leslie’s plunge in the salt sea-spray !
(For, wanting a tank, no Play’s complete)
Or Dantes’ diamonds’ rich array ?
Or the measured motion of dancing feet ?
Is it Faria (hoary, crack-brained, stiff),
Or Irving (jerky, abrupt, outre),
Or the Pedlar (tawny and tal-a-kative) —
The styles and the wiles of Noirtier ?
Or the proffer of kisses —“nice to-day?”
Or “Monte—what is it?—Monte-peife?”
Is ib Danglars—prithee ? Or Fernand—pray ?
Or the light, quick patter of dancing feet ?
Envoi.
Is it Nellie ? Not so ! Or Leslie ? Nay !
Or Marion? No—tho’ her song be is week:
But ’tis Letty Lind and Sylvia Gray,
And the light, quick patter of dancing feet.
HUGH W. INNES.


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery"
The qualify ip oYPPptionally firood. and thp prirp very low g
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
-Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
fiven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
)ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by Quittendon Bros., 11l Russell-
street, Melbourne.
oack street, and the dear good who
always found pleasure in out-door movements has
not been heard of since.
A wealthy Melbourne lady died lately,
leaving instructions to have her clay placed in a
weatherboard coffin and carried on a lorry to a
burial-place, and (under pain of all her bequests
being revoked and her property handed over to
the Government to build and mainoain a home
for Chinamen) she directed that no vehicle gaudier
than a spring-cait should follow the trail of the
lorry aforesaid. Her wishes were obeyed.
The fair partner of a certain Western
N.S.W. solicitor, was not a perfect thing of sweet-
ness. Her education had never been ‘-finished,”
her knowledge of music, for instance, had been
gleaned from the tinkling of the dinner-bell at
the bush “pub,” where she once successfully
superintended the kitchen, parlour, dining-room,
and bar. Her only perfect art was the enforcing
of her own sweet will. A lawyer onca “ put up ’
at the aforesaid pub,, and was overwhelmed by
the beauteous proportions of the maid; then there
ensued a joyous period of wedded bliss. One day
recently the lawyer received instructions from
his Sydney agent to procure evidence in a divorce-
suiti_the erring party having removed with the
co-respondent to his district. There was enclosed
with the instructions a bundle of letters written
by the guilty wife to her lover, which letters were
couched in the most loving and passion ite terms.
As the lawyer was too busy to peruse the corres-
pondence during office hours, he took them home.
The wife wondered why he remained reading so
late at night. Next morning on leaving for his
office he made a huge mistake—he left the afore-
said letters loosely strewn over his library-table.
Soon that affectionate wife was in the library
spelling out the epistles. Soon her dark eyes
Hashed with rage—a horrible suspicion had taken
possession of her. She was the unhappy dupe of
an unfaithful husband! At length, snatching up the
letters, the complete evidence of his guilt, she
scrambled down the street to the lawyer s office ;
she would charge him with the crime before his
clients and —the world. Into the office she
bounded like a March hare, and, in the presence
of the bank-manager, the police magistrate, and
the local parson, she hurled abuse and the bundle
of letters at the head of the man of law, with a
threat that she would once more become a slavey,
and wound up a long tirade by demanding a
divorce and other satisfaction. During the torrent
the husband couldn’t get a word in even edgeways.
When his opportunity came to deny the charge
and explain matters, he was paralysed by a blow
from a volume of Oliver’s Statutes.” Then the
office-boy rushed in. and, by the aid of the clients,
she was secured. The lawyer was then able to
explain. Slowly the truth dawned upon her, and
she left.
• *
The fact that one Dennis Crofton, of
Dublin, has left £OO,OOO to religion and charity
reminds us that a few years ago a big commotion
was made about another Dublin man named, say,
O’Mulligan, who had many acquaintances in an
Irish town in the colony of Victoria. As usual
where there are great expectations, every mail
took to the ould sod little reminders of the fond
friends in far away Australia. Fervent hopes
were expressed that the dear old relative might
live to be 100, and each correspondent declared
that the only anxiety that beset him was for_his
relative’s spiritual and temporal welfare. Mr.
O’Mulligan was engaged in the whisky-trade
and had totted up a quarter of a million
sterling. His pub. was in what might be called
a poor neighbourhood, but business must have
been good to enable him to put together such an
enormous sum out of the profits of three
ha’penny crappers.” One fine morning the mail
brought news that the O Mulligan had pegged out
at last, but the news was in no way cheenng to
his expectant heirs, for, although he had made a
will, not a shilling did he leave to any of his_ rela-
tives. The last will and testament distinctly
stated that as many persons had made themselves
paupers to enrich him he deemed it only right
that the money should in some way go back to
those from whom he obtained it, and he left all he
died possessed of to the charities of Dublin City.
This little amende honorable may have helped the
O’Mulligan’s passage through purgatory, but we
are exercised to know how many Australian
whisky dealers will follow his example.
Dear Bulletin, —The precise nature of
the “ Women’s Fund,” or the “ Queen’s Fund,”
or the “ Queen’s Fund for Women ” may be
gathered from the following incident which took
place a short time back. There was an old woman,
80 or 90 years of age, totally destitute of means,
who had to support an idiot and helpless daughter
who lived with her. These two had been strug-
gling on for some time wholly dependent on the
charity of benevolently-di-po3ed persons. It would
have been difficult to imagine a more deserving
case. Now, it occured to this poor old woman
that she and her daughter were fit applicants to
the Queen’s Fund for Women. Accordingly, not
being without education as she had “ seen better
days,” she wrote a letter to a high authority of the
fund, stating her case, and humbly asking if her
ladyship would condescend to assist her. She
had not to wait long; a few days afterwards a
vice-regal carriage was driven up to the door of
the old lady’s humble dwelling, and a distinguished-
looking personage, answering the description of
an aide, or private secretary, or something of the
sort, honoured her with a visit. He made minute
inquiries into the condition of herself and daughter
aud promised to relate to the proper authorities
all he had seen and heard. Then he departed,
leaving the old lady and her daughter with hearts
beating high with expectation, and thinking they
had every reason to bless Lady Blank and the
“ Queen’s Fund.” And so they waited. Then
they rereived a formal communication, expressing
regret that the' many calls upon Lady Blank pre-
cluded her from extending any assistance to this
particular case.--Yours, A B.C.
•
A man with a mania for talking ceaselessly
has lately been accommodated with quarters at
the Yarra Bend Asylum, Melbourne. He was
never violent, but it was the only way to keep him
out of Parliament.
« • •
History repeats itself. Lord Dangan was
engaged to be married to the much-photographed
Phyllis BroughtoD, danseuse. The trousseau was
purchased, the wedding-day fixed, when a letter
was received by Miss Broughton from Lord
Dangan, deploring that the attitude of his family
prevented him from fulfilling his engagement.
War follows.
[?]
84G Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 8, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
The big show over the border is now booming, and
whilst 1 am delighted at the success of the affair I can’t
help wishing they had not made it so irresistibly at-
tractive, for Sydney just now is like a deserted village.
On the Bth Lord and Lady Carington return to the Inner
Domain. But they’re not back yet, and, in the absence
of the accustomed metropolitan crowd, Sydney is as dull
as a sixpenny razor and as heavy as a bride’s dumplings.
A gentleman friend of my acquaintanc3, who keeps
house with his wife on a small 11 screw,” was lately altic'ed
with a servant who owned a colossal appetite. Whatever
left the table she straightway reduced to unheresome
finality. Whether it were half a pigeon, half a fowl, half
a duck, half a goose, half a turkey, half a bullock, it made
no difference to Eliza, Jane, who always made a
point of conscience of wafting every viand she laid her
lightsome fist upon to the region of the invisible. One
day she complained of feeling ill. “Wot’o!” ex-
claimed the master of the house, "here’s my oppor-
tunity ! Eliza Jane, I am afraid you look very bad in-
deed. You should really see a doctor.” She got frightened
and went. Tne doctor gave the girl medicine, and then
she ate like Pantagruel and Gargantua combined
in a single personality. Her appetite was great before,
now it wa3 godlike. In despair of being able to supply
the stomachic requirements of such a wholesale assimila-
tion of the fat and fruit of this earth, my friend swears
vengeance against the medico, and threatens to send him
the bill for Eliza Jane’s rations.
This is a cold, unfeeling anecdote calculated to harrow
the innermost souls of all maiden ladies. At a hash-
emporium in the ancient city of Melbourne came to reside
an unclaimed blessing with a vinegar tongue, a vinegar
temper, and a deep and massive contempt for Man in all
his branches. In the same house, amongst others, dwelt
a young man (rather a jolly young man, by the way)
against whom our virgin cherished a deep and spoken dis-
like, never losing an opportunity of snubbing him and
impressing him with the wickedness of his conduct and
the viciousness of his ways, and putting herself out to re-
mind him of his most trivial backslidings. At last he
got tired of her lectures and planned a deep and dreadful
revenge. In going down to breakfast every boarder had
to pass Miss Blank’s door, and as she didn't leave her
virginal couch till a later hour there could always be
seen her pair of spread kid boots or shoes waiting to be
taken in. One morning, as the boarders trooped to their
morning meal, beside Miss Blank’s shoes on the bedroom
door-mat stood a pair of large, men’s boots, nicely blacked
and placed, also waiting to be taken in ! Breakfast that
morning was merely a subdued giggle, and when later on
a shrill shriek echoed down the corridors there was some
more mirth in the dining-room. P.S.—Miss Blank left the
same day.
I read in a London paper the'following:—"The de-
lightful and wonderful youthfulness of the Princess of
Wales have been the subject of universal comment. It
has been sometimes said that the Princess is considerably
indebted to art for the perennial nature of her charms,
but there is not an atom of truth in the unkind report.
It is the simplicity of Her Royal Highness’ life which has
a great deal to do with the preservation of her youth, and
another cause of it is the Princess’s unfailing devotion to
the bath. The morning plunge in water just at blood-
heat, followed by energetic use of the flesh-brush, and
the refreshing nightly bath in tepid water, distilled, so as
to ensure its perfect purity, and slightly medicated and
perfumed with rose-water and glycerine, are the real
secrets of the Princess's youthful bloom. Which reminds
me of a remark I not long ago heard a P. and O. steward-
ess make to the doctor of her ship. "Not one of those
three women ” (they were rich saloon passengers, too, and
regular as clockwork in their attendance at table) " has
had a bath since thf y left London with us six weeks ago!'’
The Sydney evening papers have made the most out of
that very pathetic letter written by the unhappy little
Irishwoman who, having abandoned her husband and her
nine children (what a queer thing is " romance !”) in
favour of the bachelor bank-manager, sat down and made
a clean breast of it all in black and white. But the erring
Irishwoman’s letter contains nothing new. Her story is
as old as the hills and reads like a prose paraphrase of
Mr G. R. Sims’ poem, “ Ostler Joe.” I wonder, by the
way, why nobody has ever publicly recited " Ostler Joe ”
in Sydney ?
I heard a good anecdote the other day about a small
girl who had been very naughty, and whose mamma sent
her into the next room to pray that she might become a
better child. Soon the piping supplication rose quaver-
ing on the breeze: “ Pease Dod I’ve bin a vewy notty
child, an’ I want you to make me a clood child. Pease
Dod make me a dood child, an’ if at first you don’t suc-
ceed try, try, try again 1 ”
I read recently that at the last Ascot race meeting
“ Mr. Manton,” the Duchess ’of Montrose, appeared in a
very florid costume, “ a chintzy-looking dress, reminding
one at a distance of a tablecloth spread with flowers,”
with which Her Grace wore "priceless sapphires and
diamonds !” What execrable taste ! Precious stones and
chintz ! (This homely old woman has since got married
to a dude only one-third of her own age.) At the same
meeting Lady Ailesbury sported a parasol which was a
marvel of ingenuity, being composed entirely of artificial
tuberoses. Pretty fashion, isn’t it ? I expect to see one
or two of these floral sunshades on the lawn at Melbourne
Cup.
On 4th inst. a huge crowd compressed itself into Syd-
ney Association Cricket Ground to see the light and
weedy Cornstalks get another severe gruelling at the
hands (or feet ?) of the sturdy English footballers. The
day was superlatively fine, and under suoh a blue sky
twas a foregone conclusion that Sydney femininity would
appear as swagger as it knew how, to do the lawn and
pose on the grand-stand. As to the most prominent
colour worn, brown appeared to be much in favour, and
the best brown frock present was a seal-brown cloth
draped over a jupe of white cloth embroidered in gold
braid and pinked out at the edge ; vest and cuffs of the
white cloth, also gold-embroidered, and brown hat, ornate
with ribbon to correspond. A vieux-rose cishmere, with
moire sida panel, vest, and cuffs, rough white-straw bon-
net, ornate vieux-rose ribbon and strings, looked well on
a small woman ; and amongst the dozens of pretty dres.es
displayed, I particularly noted a heliotrope cashmere
with panel and vest of dark heliotrope checks on a
paler ground with an over-stripe of dark helio
trope velvet ; bonnet ornate with checked and
plain ribbons and strings en mite. A dark-blue
cashmere with plain front of moire silk and vest of
glittering gold embroidery ; and a fawn costume of ex-
tremely-fashionable, large quarter-acre checks, made with
a scarlet vest half concealed in gold braid and worn with
a "cocky” looking hat trimmed with s'riped and plain
fawn ribbon. The fat woman appeared in the shape of a
butter-tub lady in bright violet velvet and a yellow'
bonnet, and there were present two hospital nurses in the
relentless nursing get-up. Their presence sent a cold
shudder down my spinal column, they looked so terribly
suggestive at a gory football contest! Amongst the crowd
on the lawn I saw several theatrical visages. Coupeau
Warner saw the game out in a beautifully-fitting pearl
grey frock-coat and a pearl grey “nail-keg.” I pitied
Warner on Saturday. First a clergyman button-
holed him and told him what a Great Moral Lesson
he was inculcating nightly, whether he liked it
or not, and when he had shaken off the oily man of prayer
an eccentrio suburban alderman of literary aspirations
worried an introduction to him out of a Sydney actor.
Lst me at this point draw the horsecloth of oharity over
the scene.
Apropos of football, I think that on Saturday the
N.S.W. team ought to have supervised the toilette of at
least one of their members before allowing him to curvet
in the open. The particular masher to whom I allude
appeared in a torn and soiled guernsey, dark “breeks,’’
cut off short at the knees and ending in tails of frayed
rag, bare shanks, short “ old gold ” socks, and ordinary
dusty leathern boots 1 Also his head resembled a birch
broom.
Rosehill August race meeting happens on the 18th mat.
The committee are almost sure that their ladies’ tea-room
(a long felt want out there) will be completed by then
so there will be an extra attraction to draw us Rosehill.
wards.
In referring to the opening by the new Emperor, of
the S. M. ll.’s curled and scented the German Reichstag
Special wires that the Emperor looked “Imperial and
well pleased.” Royalty conducts itself very differently
from what its colonial representatives do, anyhow. The
phrase out here runs, “ Vice-regal, and bored.”
I hear that a certain medical widower, whose daughter
was reoently married, is now engaged to a girl whose age
is under that of his youngest daughter. On the day of
their engagement he gave her a few hundred pounds
worth of jewellery. Its better to be an old man’s darling,
isn’t it ?
What do you think of this, which comes to me in metri-
cal form, from London
The Latest Fad.
It is a custom long in use—
At least, so rumour tells —
Taat Fashion, in apparelling,
Puts garters on the belles.
But now there comes a newer fad,
And Fashion’s lovely martyrs,
Resolved to be in style, or die—
Put bells upon their garters.
I read that Sarah Bernhardt’s latest creation in the
millinery line is a dress of salmon-coloured satin, trimmed
with handsome silver passementerie ; there is a plain
skirt front, with three half-circles of passementerie, then
a long redingote opening to show this front part of the
same material, with ornaments of the same passementerie
on each side; tight fitting peaked bcdice, with plastron
trimmed with bows of pale-green satin; tight sleeves,
with small puffings on the shoulder, and similar bows and
loops of the same ribbon in the hair. The “Theodora”
tunic is owing to Sarah. It is of Cigale-green bengaline,
with a loose lapel dropping from the neck to the edge of
the skirt; this drapery "was fastened at the waist by a belt
of open-work passementerie.
A sanguine idiot, writing to the S.M. Herald on the
subject of Divoroe Extension, suggests in all seriousness
that a clause be inserted to deal with the mother-in-law
question. To quote the writer’s own words : “ I hope
Sir Alfred will see his way to stop relations interfering.”
If Sir Alfred could, earth would become a second Utopia,
wouldn’t it ? Of course we shouldn’t stop there. In due
time would follow bills for “ the prevention of cold
mutton.” “ To suppress the wifely argumentative faculty
at 3 a.m.” with an inserted clause to abolish the “ dread-
ful custom of going through the pockets of an innocent
and somnolent husband.” Things would be about to
hustle then, and by the time our legislators brought in a
Bill to “totally abolish mothers-in-law” the original
Divorce Bill wouldn’t be required.
The disease is spreading rapidly. At Sydney Criterion
the other night, a fair and avoir-du-poisy lady during the
first interval produced a bundle of rose-pink wool and two
preposterously long woeden needles, and started in to
manufacture some article of utility or uselessness. So
engaged, however, was she in furtively eyeing around
her to observe the effect of her fancy work on the other
occupants of the D.C., that I fear me she accomplished
but little of the stocking (or whatever it was) she was
engaged on.
A smart member of one of the Sydney Liedertaefels has
“Golgotha” inscribed on the inside band of his hat.
You’ll snigger when you see it.
Yet more of Mrs. Malaprop. At her table recently
somebody complained of the officiousness of the verger at
the church Mrs. M. mostly affects. “ I can quite believe
you,” replied she, “ I never can put up with the airs of
that virgin, and he’s only a cabman during the week !”
At the opening, a while back, of a certain suburban
skating-rink, “full dress” was firmly requested, and the
toney manager swaggered around in a low-cut dress
waistcoat and a pea-green necktie. The effect was very
choice.
} (The Summerhill Skating Rink and Swimming Bath Co.
opened their show on the Ist in the presence of a large
number of invited guests who indulged in skating and
dancing until midnight. Nobody, however, had a bath.
They only do these things at the theatre. Excel-
lent refreshments were served in one of the ante-
rooms.
Fergus Hume’s new novel, illustrative of life on the
Ballarat goldfields, which he is about to publish in
London, is entitled “Madame Midas,” and is to be
dedicated to Miss Alice (“Princess Midas”) Cornwell.
One of the penalties of fame, no matter how acquired, is,
the liability to be dedicated to on the slightest provoea'-’
tion. And, apropos of literature, Haddon Chambers’
play, “ Captain Swift,” promises to plant its foot
firmly on the annals of to-day. The American rights
were disposed of, directly after the matinee, to the Madi‘
son Square Theatrfe, New York, where it will be produced
in November under the superintendence of the author.
Charles Wyndham talks of bringing it out in Germany,
too. Nothing has yet been done in regard to Australian
rights.
Mrs. J. H. White (Myra Kemble) and Miss Maggie
Knight have gone over to Melbourne. Mies Athena
Claudius has returned to the City of the Beautiful
Harbour.
The Ist of August just past was the anniversary of the
death of Australia’s sweet, sad singer, Henry Kendall.
Mrs Malaprop, of the Point, was asked the other day if
she was in favour of a society being formed to help poor
women to secure employment? “Of course,” promptly
responded she, “I will do all I can for any indignant
female.” This same celebrity of ours was out walking the
other day on a concrete pavement and found it very warm
to her feet. Meeting a friend she said, “ Don’t you find
this consecrated stuff very ’ot ?” And her friend actually
thought she “swored.”
Brooklyn has an “anti-dyspeptic cooking club,” and
rumour hath it that its members avoid dyspepsia by giving
the dishes they cook to the poor. It is much better to live
in Australia (if you are not of the poor) than in Brooklyn,
for here the cookery students take home all the “ tucker”
they perpetrate.
In a French law-court the other day a woman defended
her father-in-law. Odd, wasn’t it? The next sight we
will be called upon to witness will probably be that of a
man pleading with tears in his eyes for his mother-in-law.
It’s best to be prepared for anything nowadays.
Those melodious songsters from the Tyrol—the
Jungfrau Kapelle—will, I am glad to hear, shortly re-
appear in Sydney for a brief season.
The Sydney Orpheus Club concluded its first season
on the Ist inst. with a “ladies’ evening” at
West's rooms, when the crowds of women that
attended went to prove my theory that smoke-ooncerts
ought to be a punishable offence. Of course the concert
left nothing to be desired, and the men present seemed
to enjoy it just as much with us there, even if they
couldn’t make funnels of themselves. The programme
was an exceptionally good one—comprising my great
favourite Kowalski’s “ Pens6e du Eoir,” played by the com-
poser himself with all his musician’s soul in his sensitive
finger-tips. How I do love Kowalskis manipulation of
the ivories ! Au reste we had Hallewell and Walshe and
Warwiok Gainor (who though he understands vocal music
so well, yet cannot play his own accompaniments to save
his soul), Lucy Allpress (who took the violin part in
Rubenstein's magnificent A sonata for piano and violin,
with Kowalski at the piano), and Augustus Gehde. Quite
a gathering of the clans, wasn’t it ? At the conclusion,
Mr. Nugent Robertson, on behalf of the committee, pre-
sented Kowalski with a golden lyre. I hope nothing per-
sonal was intended.
The wedding of Miss Minnie Roberts, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Roberts, of Fairlawn,
Waverley, to Mr. James Robertson, of Tas-
mania, eventuated on the Ist August, at St. Mary’s,
Waverley, when the bride looked very charming indeed in
faille Frangaise. In the evening a ball was held at Fair-
lawn, when over 00 couples whirled over the excellent floor
of the new ball-room. The prettiest toilette was a
heliotrope satin draped with mauve gauze spangled with
gold stirs, bodice ornate with heliotrope passementerie.
There were several Melbourne girls present.
Some one asked Miss Brabam, previous to her departure
in the Ormuz, hew she had enjoyed her stay in Australia.
“ Very much in some ways,” replied “ Princess Ida,” “ in
Brisbane and Sydney especially.” “And why exclude
Melbourne ?” she was asked. “ You always had good
notices and good houses.” “Oh, yes; all that,” she re-
plied ; ‘ ‘ but they would congeal the warmest-hearted
artiste by their coldness and apparent inappreciation.”
In Sydney we invariably split our gloves when Miss
Braham sang “ I built upon a rock.”
At the reoent banquet to distinguished deadheads, held
at Melbourne, Lord Cavington’s health was drunk with a
“jolly good fellow ’ chorus and any amount of enthu-
siasm. Consequently, when the Baron got on the stump,
’twas no wonder he stated that he rose with “ very mixed
feelings.”
Miss Leonora Braham, who has made friends with every
Australian audience she ever faced, and who will always
be welcomed back again, leaves for England by the
Ormuz.
Everyone admires Mrs. Brough’s dressing. She is
always glove-fitted, and her clothes always have the right
hang. Under these conditions it is comforting to know
that her gowns are mostly made by J. L. Hordern and
Co., of Pitt-street, Sydney.
Eighteenpence worth of business-cM?n.-sentiment from
the S.M. Herald
TITATRIMONY. —A reserved English girl is willing
- u -*- to make the acquaintance of some one in a
moderately fair social position. Address Earnest,
Post-office, Eveleigh.
She must indeed be “ reserved ” —painfully so, don’t you
think ?—to thus advertise herself as an eager aspirant for
double harness. And, be : ng “ reserved," her position is
not an enviable one, for with what a haughty glare she
must perforce greet the applicant for the billet of her hus-
band, to whom she had not been “ previously introduced ?’
But mark, “ reserved,” likewise “ Earnest.”
What a p9t-poodlelike effect women give themselves
who wear those ab3U d pieces of n rrow ribbon round
their gullets and tie the bow at the back where it sticks
out perkily, don’t the v ? On a woman with a snub nose
and curly hair the similarity is ridiculous, and I always
feel inclined to whistle her over to me and address her as
“ Poor Fido, pretty doggie !”
In “Men and how to manage them”—a particularly
wily brochure written by an “Old Housekeeper” and
published at Melbourne—the following inimitable passage
occurs. After some poetic and flowery periods on the
benefit of giving a man a good supper and so softening his
heart, she says sentimentally, “No present word may
reward your pains. I have known times when men
hardly cared to trust themselves to speak w'hen
they contrasted the care and forethought . . with
the odds and ends of forgetfulness of which the best
of them know they are guilty.” Here the “Old House-
keeper” pauses to sniff before she concludes:—“ N.B.
—lt is not unusua lat such a time as this for a man
to offer you the money for something you have been wish-
ing for. In such a case take it on the spot. Indeed, it is
a good thing to have a pen and ink ready on the side-
table in case he wants to write a cheque." Oh, you poor,
innocent, confiding men ! Even in your little home sup-
pers lurk robbery and silent blackmail, and for every one
of her smiles your wife intends to charge half-a-crown !
Under these circumstances accept the sincere pity of
yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices, 65., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
MR. CHARLES WARNER
as
COUPEAU, in
DRINK. DRINK. DRINK. DRINK.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's.
"JVfISS VON FINKELSTEI N’S
-i-v_L Famous
COSTUME and TABLEAU LECTURES,
V.M.C. A. HALL, Every Evening,
Except Saturday.
MOST ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION of
the Gifted Native of Jerusalem (the most
successful Lecturer that ever visited the Colonies),
who will appear as follows :
THURSDAY, AUGUST 9,
CITY LIFE IN JERUSALEM.
MONDAY, AUGUST 13,
THE BEDOUINS OF THE DESERT.
ORIENTAL COSTUME ILLUSTRATIONS
To all the Lectures.
45., 35,, 25., 6d. Tickets at Nicholson’s.
Commence at 8. R. S. SMYTHE.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
■ ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
JgOTANY 1 BOTANY 1 BOTANY!
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
FIFTH WEEK FIFTH
EMPHATIC and UNDENIABLE SUCCESS
of
BROUGH and BOUCIOAULT’S
Very Popular and Powerful
COMEDY COMPANY,
in
ERNEST WARREN’S
clever adaptation, entitled
MODERN WIVES
MODERN WIVES.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barringtonf
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
ROARS OF DELIGHT!"
THUNDERS OF APPLAUSE.
IMMENSE ENTHUSIASM.
The above but faintly describes the reception
our NEW FIRST PART RECEIVED on MONDAY NIGHT
by the overflowing audience that witnessed its
FIRST PRODUCTION.
OUR BLONDINETTES
OUR BLONDINETTES.
Concluding with the
NEW SENSATIONAL BURLESQUE,
DRUNK
DRUNK
DRUNK.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orohestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d»
Excelsior hotel, charters
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
M
O N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request. .
S
J. < INM\OIIASI,
MARGARET STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
S B FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Eitho'a Baking Fovders. Orient Square She,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, PERSIAN SEERIET,
&0., &0.
STEAM WORKS:
HAERIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
Skating.
Gr
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opefa House, York-Street.
THE MOST FAHSIONABLE RINK IN SYDNEY.
Still Another Grand Success.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE:
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
„ ~ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE.—The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT.
Reappearance of
R. J. AGINTON, the King of the Rollers.
EVERY EVENING, at 9 p.m.,
until further notice.
Mr. AGINTON claims the title
CHAMPION TRICK and FANCY SKATER
OF THE WORLD.
’Buses will leave Wyny ward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gateß.
ADMISSION, Is.
Amusements.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopford, Sub Manager.
B
ON D I
AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks
SYDNEY TAKEN BY STORM.
Hundreds unable to gain admission nightly to
witness the most UNIQUE AND REFINED
ENTERTAINMENT IN EXISTENCE.
HISCOCK S and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
in conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
Business Announcement.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
A USTRIANBINT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A VEST COMPIHTI
Asbobtment,
Many quite new designa.
Newton & Lamb.
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d. ; BxB,
9s.;'9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Eurniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Q ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low,
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Bpbing and O’Connell Stbebtb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustio
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Akm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bes
also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB
Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sire warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of a
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear, full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, the
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
studs sustain the whole with absolute rigidity.
That these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
and tuning is only required at long intervals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
burg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest oomposer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg,
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
the “ Crown of Thorns,” and many other noble composi-
tions, handed us the following
“Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
“ I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone' and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced. *
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUYES,
je declare avoir ef,6 aussi charmCe que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES. Je les
rCcommande en toute sincerity. ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney. 20
Juin, 1883.”
CERTIFICATE.
“ I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
oomposer of “ Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“The Piano used for the accompaniments and the bolos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of poiyer.”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“ The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
" The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments."
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
" Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
“Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnui.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organa
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Poet.
482, 484, 480 Gborge-strebt, Sydney.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
apon EAHY TIME PAYMENTS
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Tramway Handicap, run August 25th, 1888. 4000
Subscribers at 10s. each. Frst Horse, £BOO ;
f£ c ° nd ’ ™ rd ’f lso 5 Starters, £250; Non-
starters £250 (divided amongst them), and 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. The Hawkesbury
Handicap, run September 15th 1888. 2000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First Horse, £400; Second,
pTnn /-i, k-jf d l ’ Non-starters,
S fe d S ““W 6 also one of the £5O
„. p 100n 'o w°'h" 6 f9n’ i, ESB ™ Y
C e ™
? OV Th ' ’1 Subscribers
'Tt .^f^bers^ requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
ft° ease register all letters to
.„ jjdelivery same, and enclose two
AridJLa re^ y an iJ r . eau^*
Mr. Hugh Dalveen ,
cj JL'L.^ os *
Rtree*. Sydney, N.S.W.


Hotels.
O- t HOTEL,
CJRNEk OF
KaP MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSGROVE
V*s
iwtn
liWffiSit
t \ r /£' If -< f SWfl <n • M
mum
It r j
0 11
i ft
;
Ladies* Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter.
i). COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) ... ... Proprietress.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
■XUBEHl BRIGHTON OF TST.S.W-
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eto., at
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rtcKerch
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also you can have good company, good wines—In fact, everything that can possibly make on:
oomfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tabl
de H&te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make be
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILHINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MaNLI
Business Announcements
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
Jn tonsequcnce of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSH/Rff
SAUCE which art calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to. request that Purchasers S& that the Labs! #w every
hears their Signature thus ♦
Without “which TW bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fof LEA and PERRIES' Saute, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle ami
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ;, Cross* as*m
Blackwell, Condon, 6re., <5rV. • and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
»»n.«n I ■ .'I 11-™ mr n— • ■ inn -■■■- .I— j-
unriiniiT Amrnm rmnTmm doraro > yai dav® cos*» t; ca, qj&w>
ftowlancb’,
viaeaaaarOil
ln^glosßy'f ir»l!o"»timul»"to.”tti»' growth'of wMikeri ind mou«tj»che» ,
ftt Sc especially recommendod fur children as forming th® basis of ft beautiful head of half? Mi®
ym also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
, ._ r great time and trouble, has been ®«p«ci»lly prepared tor the u»* of *oM*n-
children and fair or grey-haired adults. Size* 3e„ <Bd-; fir; family bettlea, ®Qual to four
olden -aalrwSl
■mall,
feich, after
rlldren and fair or grey-hf
SO*. 6d.; and double that size, 21a.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a healing and refreshing preparation fox -
She face, hands and arras; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces ft beautiful and delicate
•somplexion.
ROWLANDS' ODONTO
whitens the teeth, prevents *vnd arrests decay t
strengthens the gurus, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
EOWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations unde r
similar names
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Pbobsbb & 00., Sydney.
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STKEET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
HARRY STEQQA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Eveby Bbanoh,
viz.:—
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin,
Moderate Prloes, with Civility and Attention,
■?)SBSH7!3a--B9©*f
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. Gd. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
DR. GEORGE ON LEE, 31 Carlton Terrace,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Will see PATIENTS on 29th August at Armidale;
3rd September, see Patients at Brisbane for Four
Days only. Patients will please call early. All
persons suffering from any Internal Diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses may have them
dispersed by medicine without cutting. He asks
patients no questions but will tell them where the
pain is felt. Consultation fee, 10s. 6d.
MR. NEIL MACKAY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediately to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Business Announcements.
THE
PLUM'
Razor.
THE
“PLUM
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready lor use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor, 10s. 8d;,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEBO, Patosi Haircutitag Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed ! ,
GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
680
©
MEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &C., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fltted by our own men
CLOTHS,CUES BALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLI
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
}, Little George Street, SYMBT, JULf, and Soho Squire, UMMU
tP erdriau «St 00. 9
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
: o :
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded bo any size. Rubber goods for all purpose*.
Lists and Samples on Application.
NERVOUS OERILITY.
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous DleesE<%
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self Cure fob Nervous Dkbiiisi ASD
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addscss— >
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS
-
. .—•■:A v"-
'’rr - ■•'
_ '• 1
PARSONS’ GRAFE SALINE.
Trade Marl. —“ Th’ Greenwich Observatory."
Specially prepared from Rife Fruit, and Is the best ol
all Fruit Salines.
Biift-nmn, unsan, mmmi.
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache ,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE
Get It only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM, PAKM&YP, A.P.8., Greenwich, EnsSanfl.
Agknts :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Stp&et
Pinsons’ GRAPE SALINE.
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23i’d July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
rpENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
■*- the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of about 2 miles 20 chains of fencing of pests and 3 wires,
straining and alteiing about 19 miles 40 chains . of existing fences, and
attaching wire-netting to about 21 miles 60 chains of fencing—between
a point on the boundary-line dividing the Colonies <*f New South Wales
and South Australia, about 20 chains north of a mile-post marked “66 ”
and a point on the said boundary-line near the 88oh-mile post.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill ; Messrs. George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide ; and Messrs. S. Drew & Co., Koorirga, S A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing , Section 3."
HENRY PARKES.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23id July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
rpENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates, 12 chains post and rail fencing, 7 miles fencing
of posts and 2 wires, altering and repairing about 36 miles of existing
fences, and attaching wire-netting to about 43 miles fencing,—between
a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales
and South Australia, near a mile post marked “88 ” and the 131st-mile
post on the said boundary-line.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; Messrs. George Fe guson & Co.,
Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide ; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill ; and Messrs. S. Drew & Co., Kooringa, S A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed, “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencinq,Section h.”
HENRY PARKES.
Pepartment of Lands,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
nPENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates, 12 chains post and rail fencing, repairing and
altering about 26 miles 40 chains of existing fences, and attaching wire
netting to about 48 miles 60 chains fencing—between a point on the
boundary-line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South
Australia, about 20 chains north of a mile post marked “ 134 ” and the
183rd mile-po3t on the said line.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; He Minis g Registrar, Broken
Hill ; Messrs. George Ferguson and Co., Unity Ciambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide ; and Messrs. S. Drew and Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing, Serf '"h -3.
it EAR A PARKES.


Business Announcements.
mr thb ojsru.'sr
.
Direct Supply Asseciaiioo!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines %
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355.
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in’wood box 21s.
o
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
in the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ ~ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel „ ~ ... 355. Od.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/8, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOB
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
Mil mil STRII,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
foitii, Cello, Viola Double
Mu, fc, Do.
Das:, Bail,
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5. 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 » » i» £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
Bpecial lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMIOI3SEI9, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to All insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
&
&
<b
$
O
Of
a;
V
9?
a
*
A
A
<b
A-
A
£
Yt
S
0
V
A
o
V
O
£
s*
o
X:
f\
V
$
V..
A
A
o
V s
A
9
<;■■
A
A
&
A
f\
0
e>
A
:<
r
O
<r
v
&
A
A
<<^
A
A
A
o
390 a GEORGE S T
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £600,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,322.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors’ Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
6 „ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, STOREY.
i
w
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUTINS OF TEAS.
to:
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lor the above for New South Wales and Queensland,
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery,
imported Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING ; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms
Business Announcements.
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twf
or three times a day ; a winegiassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov*
ing all impure seoretions than any other medioihal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E, Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure in recom*
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned j—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflioted as I have
been may take advantage of them,
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“ Messrs. Ed, Row and Company, Sydney."
m
lilt
uas
Bow’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Rteano's Wins.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row S
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row's Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the exoessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed.
TRY THEM,
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BSTTBRS,
containing
ROWS STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW'S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row As Onrrm»*>w
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STRE^’
The gold found at Gladstone ia the richest
in (Queensland. It ia valued at £4 3s. oz.
Mount Morgan comes next at £4 2s. oz.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) man has just
stopped breaking stones to enter into possession of
a £50,000 fortune at Melbourne. That is one side
of the picture. The other is that several influen-
tial citizens have lately been tapped on the
shoulder and told that long jobs of stone-breaking
awaited them.
Sydney Punch, of 1859, had a queer fate
It was edited and owned by a struggling press-
man. He made the paper a success, but gave it
its death blow by suddenly inheriting a fortune
and forsaking the plant to enjoy his wealth.
Rarely is the death of a journal due to such a
cause.
From the Hawk A friend of mine, a
man of great experience, in mines, and who has
reported upon some of the most successful mines
now being worked, has just returned from a visit
to the Welsh Mount Morgan Mine, and is full of
enthusiasm about it. He says he has never seen
such prospects. He has seen a reef of 20 to 24
feet thick, and the quartz has yielded all along 2
ozs. to the ton. The cosb of working the mine is
perfectly nominal, for there is abundance of water-
power from two rivers—the Cain and the Ma-$vd-
dach —and a mill has been constructed at the point
where they join,- not very far from the mine, which
is connected with the mill by a tramway. Wages
are far less than in mines in Africa, Australia,
and America, in the proportion of Is. here to 43.
there. My informant believes this will be one of
the greatest discoveries of the present age. In
any case, it is quite easy for anyone to go and see
for himself * it is not a case of a long journey across
the ocean followed by a tedious railway journey,
and a monotonous and disagreeable iide over
rugged roads in springless vehicles. It is only a
question of six hours pleasant railway travelling
into the midst of the magnificent scenery of North
Wales. The journey from Bala to Dolgelly is as
beautiful as any in the whole world. There is
capital trout-fishing, and from Dolgelly to the sta
at Barmouth is only twelve miles. There is a
very good hotel at Bala, called Blas-Coch, and at
Dolgelly, the nearest railway-station to the mine,
there is the Ship, both very good places. The
mine is six miles from Dolgelly. Iam told Mr.
Pritchard Morgan will give every facility to enable
anyone to inspect the workings.
A house-to-houi§e collection is now being
made amongst the Roman Catholic Community in
aid o’f the building of St. Mary’s Cathedral,-
Sydney. Touching this an “ Irish Catholic ”
indignantly writes to say that “nearly every mason
employed on the job is a Scotch Protestant, the
clerk of the works is one, and when a few extra
hands were required some weeks ago an order was
sent to Melbourne for more Scotchmen. Well,
and what then ? We don’t see any moral sticking
out except that the writer doesn’t seem to like
Scotchmen.
Down a Sydney street the bther day a
procession of three was solemnly marching along.
The rear consisted of two larrikins and the front
of a pair of vegetable-baskets with a Chinaman in
between. He was unsuspicious of danger, and as
he jolted along, groaned out a melody in his
own wild foreign tongue, and there was no emo-
tion written on his placid countenance. At least
there wasn’t till suddenly two earthquakes assailed
him from behind, and then he offered up a scream
to .Confucius upon his everlasting throne and
dropped into the gutter. When he regained his
feet he found that his baskets were capsized on
the road and his vegetables trodden into super ■
natural smash, and with a cry of “ Oh, hellee ! ”
he started in fierce pursuit of his enemies. They
fled, and he followed with road-metal and
imprecations, and a long, long chase ensued
in the course of which the Chinaman per-
formed prodigies of velocity and cleared every-
thing that came in his way. But the young
Australians' spread themselves out at a gallop
and at last the outcast gave it up and came
back smiling, to gather up the mashed lettucee
and the shattered “ callot ” and replace them in
the two baskets which had been stove in during
the brief but awful convulsion. “Allee li,” he
observed cheerfully to a sympathetic bystander;
“me killee ; me killee lallikin an’ gettee ten pong
Henly Palk.” And he trotted away, happy in
the serene conviction that the Grand Old Man
was offering £10 a piece for larrikin-scalps, and
that a great and profitable industry was opening
before bim. The ancient faith which removed
rocks and whales sinks into insignificance before
the simple trust of the Mongol as he marched off
to destroy these two hoodlums and present their
ha’r at the door of the N.S.W. Treasury.
Scott's Emulsion of Purr Cod Liver Oil with Hypo-
riiospiiiTES, is more reliable as an agent in the cure of
Consumption, Bronchitis, and General Debility, than any
other remedy known to medical science. Read the
following: “I have prescribed ‘ Scotts’s Emulsion’ and
have also taken it myself, and can fully endorse the
opinion that it is both palatable and eflicient, and can be
tolerated by almost any one—especially where Cod Liver
Oil itself cannot be borne.— Martin Miles, M.D., &c.,
Stantonbury, Bucks, England.”
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
RowLANDS’KALYDORremovesfreekles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*


Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE.
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 Vlo,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves
*1,000,000
*33,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years ..
For 6 months
7 per oent.
i per oent.
For 1 year _ 8 per oent.
For 3 months.. 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving
FIRST oharge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Offices— lo, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
A
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt street, Sydney.
Directors :
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq , M.P., Chairman
JAMES R HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, E q.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer :
JAS. C. COX, M.D.
Actuary :
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the.Qnly Australian Life Office
which declafes a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are —the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
Business Annolincfiiients*
OHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
rents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
vers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
olers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices
>te the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
T
O RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &c.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
.nd Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
treet, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
fold. Send your full address, andwe will send Post
'ree One Copy, givenawayfor thenextSixMonths
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
QR. RUMNEY
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will be happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE '‘WONDER” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 63,785 Miles.
The trip to ST. ALBANS is a perfect “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “Wonder”
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world.
Ask at the Coach Office, HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for all particulars.
Hotels.
FITZROY HOTEL,
BAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
Fibbt-Gl ass Family Hotel,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra oharge
Sosd Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS, WILLIAMSON, Proprietor,
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg bo notify the Publio that we havi
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES l
M. MELAOHRINO & 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are bow offering these exceptionally Oholoc
Brands of
GISAKETTSS, also FINEST BSAKDS of CIQA&S,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices l
tr Noth this Pbioh !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette— thi
11 SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
SW By baying from ns yon will save at least
16 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
li mml STREET, SMET
(opposite Savings Bank).
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS!
The coytEALEP cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
UCTETiTEK <35 CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, Am
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
Business Announcements.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STRESS
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Di.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
Harvard College, U.S. (lor confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The dootor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every oase he under t kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organio disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not olaim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physioian
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles In
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advioe free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spkbr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Offioe hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
TATTERSALL’S
xoism CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Raoing Event*
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
«* Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“Evening News.” Address, “Tattersall’s," oara
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tlokets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
tor reply and the other for result of drawing.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SHE 3 9AMOUB AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Btlll maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent amon
the hosts of other brands as
THS BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIFB 0998R8D TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
IS! OLARHNOE-STRBBT.
GtBB
Large Shipments of this BRAND 09 BRIAR
WHOLESALE ONLY Bhipßlec ** oQattln e to '™*
BRUITOFI
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOTJR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wal
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 34 Pitt Stbbbt
BRISBANE ...Edwabd Stbbbt.
MELBOURNE Spbnobb Stbbbt.
D
R.
RICHARD
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CUB
for all Nervous Diseases; price, including poe
age, 6d. In stamps. Consultation oosts nothing
and the Dootor will tell you at onoe whether yot
oase Is curable or not. Address—
DR- RICHARDS.
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
M PORTANT
NEW
“ A remarkable find of gold-bearing quartz hi
been made at Yilgarn (W.A.) A large area
covered on the surface with stone containing gol
Specimens brought into Perth are of a marve
lously rich character, one of which, when broke
revealed gold in great quantities.”— S.M. Hkral
Juiy 25th, 1888.) “Arrangements have bee
completed for the construction of the West Ar
tralian Midland Railway.”—(S M. Heiul
July 17, 1888.)
Telegrams are appearing daily in the Press r
cording rich gold discoveries in Western Au
tralia.
Now is the time to make a profitable purchaj
of land in Perth, the capital of Western Au
tralia. It is offered for a mere song, but short]
will not be obtainable except at much highi
prices, for Western Australia is certainly booke
fora prosperous era, and Perth property wi
increase with rapidity even as property has doc
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, &c.
EVELEIGH ESTATE, PERTH,
Elevated, good building land ; well-situated, an
only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting G<
vernment road. Ten Pounds each lot. Terms-
£l deposit; balance, 10s. monthly. No Interesi
Free deeds absolutely to purchasers of five loti
Title, Torrens. Pamphlet containing valuable ir
formation and marked plan of the Estate foi
warded to any address on application to TH'
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CONd
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydnej
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
T> RITTENBERG & 00.,
IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Squabb.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings,
Married men are much haler than their
single brethren. Unity is strength.
A Melbourne writer says that the wives
of Chinese settled in Australia have no pull upon
their distant hubbies. Meaning that they can't
reach the latters’ pigtails, we suppose.
At an old-fashioned hostelry in London
two gentlemen were dining when a dispute arose
as to what a pineapple was. One of the diners
insisted that it was a fruit. The other, with
equal confidence, gave it as his opinion that a
pineapple was a vegetable. A bet was made, and
GENTLEMAN OF COLOUR (to Barmaid); “THANK GOD, I AIN’T A FOREIGNER.”
the friends determined to accept the decision of
the waiter. Now, the waiter was an old trusted
servitor of a past generation who had laboured
and waited in the same situation for years and
years. He was called to the table. “John,”
asked one of them, “how do you describe a pine-
apple ? Is it a fruit, or is it a vegetable ?” The
waiter rubbed bis hands, placed h's head on one
side, and with a pitying smile replied, “It is
neither, gentlemen. A pineapple is a hextra.” —
Figaro.
Johann Abraham, an Oriental personage
who had pretended that he was a Roman Catholic
priest from Persia engaged in collecting funds in
aid of his distressed flock in that distant land,
was last week arrested in Sydney as a rogue and
vagabond, he having unwisely ventured to come
into contact with several bona fide priests hailing
from that part of Persia known as Tipperary, and
elsewhere, and failed to pass muster. When
Johann, according to the rules, was taken to the
baths in Darlinghurst prison and stripped, there
were found in a leathern bag strapped round hia
waist, gold to the value of over £500, including
372 sovereigns, 34 half-sovereigns, 131 French
gold pieces, and 75 francs; at the watch-house,
previously, the police had relieved him of £14 in
gold and notes, 6s. in silver, 13 gold coins, two
keys, a watch and chain, a purse, and a book
which showed that he had received, in small sums
ranging from 6d. to £1, the sum of over £600. The
old man carried a number of testimonials in
various languages purporting to emanate from
high ecclesiastical authorities, but, despite these,
it was evident that he was not a priest at all, nor
even a Roman Catholic. Having washed off his
gilt, the authorities have said something about
distributing his money among the Sydney hospi-
tals, and sent him to expiate his guilt in gaol for
six months. And now Father Abraham is as mad
as a wet hen.
A group of Italians have been exhibiting a
giant shark in Melbourne at 6d., but they com-
plain that business will never pay whilst the law-
courts are thrown open to the public.
The first action of an old man when ar-
rested as a supposed lunatic in Melbourne the
other day was to slip a sovereign into the police-
man’s hand. He was discharged.
A fairy creature known as “ Big Amy ”
was stood before a Melbourne .suburban Bench
the other day charged with creating a disturbance.
The magistrates did not commit Big Amy, for
obvious reasons.


SWEET KQHOMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOURNE*
Rumours of actions for damages are rife at
Melbourne Opera House.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whits
Patunt TtoiiLßE FhOVP- It is tbs greatest success of tbs
»*e.
CORRESPON PENCE
“Bulli”: Too thin “Proppity” (Tam-
worth) ; The land-tail of a halfpenny in the £ on the un-
improved value of the land was carried by 39 votes to 17
in the &.S.W. Parliament, but if that is the measure of
Land Nationalisation that affords you any satisfaction
j our great grandchildren’s great grandchildren will prob-
ably die grey-headed befora the nlaaning of llenry
George’s single tax will dawn upon the benighted intellect
of that Parkes-ridden cotintry “ Tho 3. llawkings ”
(thebe-road): Thanks fbr clipping 11 Max S.” : Much
obliged. ..“Workman” (Charters Towers): You nebdn’t
be alarmed. The warrior who guards property for five
dollars a day at the i'isk of his life has orily five dollars a
day interest in the maintenance of the order of thiogs
that be, whilst danger is in the air. Vhen things calm
down his five dollars a day emergency pay ava not forth-
coming, and the American Pinkerton troops, in the event
of a struggle between Labour and Capital, would not at-
tempt to protect the latter. They are Labour, and, like the
French army that went right over to the people time and
again, they would join the side that promised the greatest
loot. If they defeated the workmen in the interests of
capital they would get five dollars a day and no plunder.
If they assisted the workmen to defeat Capital they would
be knee-deep in priceless spoil. Another thing, the
Pinkerton treops can have little military value, as they
are not drilled to act in the field. If the Pinkerton troops
are of any future consequence at all, however, it is as the
nucleus of an army, the training and equipment of which
is paid for by Capital; in the event of a struggle the army
would he found with its fathers and brothers and sons
fighting for Labour “ R.C.M.” : Many thanks....
“ WAV.”: We must decline your letter re the Phiilips-
Stephan Process C 0.... “H. O’D.” (Melb.): Will look it
up and do so “ E.A.” : The Payment of Members Bill
being a democratic measure has been rejected from time
to time by every Legislative Council in Australia. He
who doesn't support payment ot members cannot be in
favour of giving equal rights to all electors. Ministers
are paid ; members should be paid. J. 0.” (Murrum-
burrah): Very strong, very treasonable, and very funny.
Why not send something which we dare print ?
“Cockney”: Kept for Christmas “ H.W." : Many
thanks “J. Geminill”: Nash is said to have driven
eight horses, but we are unable to settle the question
authoritatively, as we do not remember ever having read
afiytbing about it....“W.5.J.” : Victoria cultivates
2,500,000 acres; New South Wales, 970,000.. ..“Susan”:
Thahks. Will read for next week “fiva”: We don't
publish stolies of the kind at any price “Augusta”:
We can’t guarantee. All we know is that we have been
invited to attend the drawing “ Lismore ” : The P.M.
stud the rest of the committee will have to settle the
matter among themselves “Grip”: Thanks. Will
read at leisure.. ..“J N.F.”: Good letter “ F.L.P.’’
(Mordant): Will consider “ J.R.” (Reuben Ter.):
\Ve are afraid there would be nothing in it. Such copies
have been reproduced ad infinitum —“ John Nicholas ”:
Next week, probably....“ fi.B.T.”: You speak of “our
frenzied efforts to prove Protection an infallible panacea
for social misery.” When did we say that such was the
case ? Ti(f. Bulletin would rather have Protection than
the present system of N.S.W. Freetrade, just as it would
sooner eat boiled cabbage than raw cabbage. But because
we like boiled cabbage better than raw cabbage it doesn’t
follow that we advocate boiled cabbage as an “infallible
panacea,” &c. Afi we say is that the present sort of Free-
trade is the straight road to ruin. Will publish your
letter next week.... “ T.E.C.”: Will publish and reply to
your letter. [Many communications crowded out.]
A clerical scandal is announced from
Adelaide, where Rev. J. M. Donaldson has been
accused of marrying two wives. He says he -was
not married to No. 1, but the hitch remains.
Hook Loong was a heathen Chinee,
Who’d “ done ” Nosey Bob for his fee ;
“ Never mind that,” said Bob,
“ I ain’t lost by his tog—
Too much opium and small-pox for me.
A manager of a firm of city milk-sellers
was complaining of the quality of milk supplied
him by two dairymen who happened to be in his
office at the same time. One excused himself by
saying that he fed his cows on hay. The other,
noticing the explanation was satisfactory, informed
the manager that he was compelled to feed his
cows on straw, “ That will do,” said the mana-
ger, “ I quite believe you.”
A Chinaman died the other day in Bendigo
(Vic.) from the effects of smoking opium for 90
years. The smoking of properly-prepared opium,
to many constitutions is no worse than tobacco-
smoking—so says the late medical superintendent
of the Hongkong penal department, a man of 30
years’ continuous experience among Chinese opium-
smokers. He declares that Chinese who are con-
firmed opium-smokers, when put in gaol, do not
suffer to any greater extent from the withdrawal
of their narcotic than does the white whose
tobacco is stopped ; that they eat and sleep well
and do not lose weight. “ Opium-eating,” he re-
marks, “ is what kills men.”
Dear Bulletin, —I want you to make a
mental note of the following :—A friend of mine,
a lonely stranger who came out to the colonies on
account of his health, was lately book-keeper for
a Sydney firm. He had an attack of pleurisy,
and was off work for some weeks. His employers
kept his place for him, paid him his salary right
up, and gave him a holiday when he recovered.
Shortly after he had typhoid, and again the firm
kept his p’ace, paid his “screw,” and gave him a
holiday. Again he succumbed, with weakness
from the effects of his illnesses, suffered from in-
flammation of the spffial cord, was taken to the
hospital, and died. His employers paid his salary
all through, and more—his expenses at the hos-
pital, and the cost of the funeral. That was
Eraser and Co., the auctioneers in George-street,
Sydney. I would like to write their name up in
big letters.—Yours truly, E. D., Parna Bay, N.Z.
The Keferee
Balley’s Magazine says there are six good
reasons for the wonderful success of the Austra-
lian cricketers. First, th«y got into form before
starting tlleir matches. The five other reasons
it re that they brought with them five fine young
cricketers whose ages range from 20 to 25 years.
And youth will be served;
* • *
Young Mitchell, the Yankee boxer, who
showed silch capacity for receiving punishment
when in Australia, has just defeated Tom Cleary
id ’Frisco, after a game fight of 30 rounds.
Mitchell is now hailed as middleweight champion
of the Pacific Coast, but if he is the best man of
the weight they can raise over there, it is time
Australia appeared on the scene.
* •
The Yankee sporting Press speak well of
the boxing of Peter Jackson, the Australian
champion. The Californian Club is giving £3OO
to bs boxed for by Jackson and George Godfrey,
THE ADVERTISING HACTOR.
“STOP THAT!”
“WHY YOU DERNED OLD FOOL I’M HELPING YOU TO FISH. I’M STIRRING
’EM UP FOR YOU. YOU’VE NEVER HAD YER DI’MONDS STOLEN OR
A BURGL’Y AT YER PUB., SO HOW’S THE DERNED FISHES TO KNOW
YER’V COME?”
the coloured champion of the States, the winner
to take £240 and the loser £6O, Godfrey receiving
£BO to go over to ’Frisco from Boston. Should
Jackson defeat Godfrey and the Yankee white
boxers refuse to show up, Jackson will cross to
England, where Jem Smith is waiting for him
with £5OO.
* * •
On dit that the horse Cardigan goes to
India. Should it prove true, there will be gnash-
ing of teeth amongst the early backers.
• * •
Mr. Thomas Watson, from Victoria, who
is starter at Randwick, has been asked to start
also for the Canterbury and Rosehill Clubs, but
the remuneration he has asked (£3OO per annum
from each club) is likely to prove prohibitive.
* * •
An English authority says that Kemp
need not necessarily have been the flyer his friends
imagine him, to have compassed his most trium-
phant achievement. Hanlan has bad rheumatic
fever, and is probably no loDger able to struggle
on when passed for a distance. No man ever yet
had rheumatic fever and got out of it with an ab-
solutely sound heart.
* * *
It is proposed to hold a great aquatic con-
test on the Brisbane River, with a first prize of
£5OO, a second of £lOO, and a third of £5O.
• •
The moral of resent events is that the
State should license racecourses, and see that
every course is provided with a doctor, also with
an ambulance and all other things necessary in
the event of accidents.
• * •
The young captain of the Carlton (Melb.)
football team nas wisely taken a pub. while his
fame is still fresh and green. Carlton is a fertile
spot for the successful kicker. It is not so many
years since the local boys returned “ Captain
Jack Gardiner to Parliament, alnd now that
talented senator draws his extra £3OO a year as
Government whip. “ All through p’aying the
right game, as it were,” says happy Jack.
• • •
The English footballers lost all their
matches (Victorian game) in Melbourne, but won
several in the country districts. Towards the end
the Britishers showed signs of overwork and over-
feeding.
The Australians v. Surrey return match
was another mud-pcramble, in which everything
depended on the winning of the toss, and. as at
Huddersfield previouslv, “ Oar Boys” only
escaped defeat through Ihe rain brinering proceed-
ings to an abrupt conclusion. In such weather as
they have recently been having in England re-
liable cricket form is not to be looked for, other-
wise we should have to assume that any decent
county team can beat a picked All-England eleven.
* » *
The charge against two Yankee card-
players of getting a few hundreds from a Mel-
bourne Exhibition visitor, has been withdrawn.
Magistrate Call suggested that the “ mug ” —one
Herman Koek-Koek—deserved no more sympathy
than he didn’t receive—
There was a young man named Koek-Koek,
Who thought to get rich at one stroke :
But he “did in his brass”
(As we’ve all done, alas !)
And now he is known as Broke-Broke.
• * *
The Australian Eleven now in England
knock out first-class teams and are knocked out
by second-class teams.
• • •
The Ballarat division had a high time last
Saturday. In addition to being in the (.Malua
swim they threw up their hats when little Ruby
won the Steeplechase, shed tears of jov over Sir
Launcelot, and s'.ood on their heads when Recall
landed alO to 1 chance for the Elat Race. _ The
Malua-Ruby double was decidedly “up against”
the Abrahams, Isaacs, and Jacobs.
* * *
A mere likely-looking horse than Boolka
never started for a hurdle race, yet the “ talent ”
(ironical term !) let, Mr. Miller's flyer run loose on
Saturday. Here again was a case in which those
who knew nothing should have been content to
follow the owner, instead of waiting for ccular
demonstration of Boolka’s jumping powers. He
had his field beaten from the first hurdle.
Lord Caringfcon backed the winning double
at Fleming bon, and his yawn was conspicuous by
its absence throughout the proceedings.
* *
After Malua had romped in for the Grand
National Hurdle every man at Klemington found
that he ought to have known it all along, s’help
me. The big horse was leniently handicapped,
allowing that he could jump and was in racing
condition. And when it was all over those who
had been sceptical on both these points suddenly
remembered that Mr. Inglis couldn’t afford to
put such a valuable piece of horseflesh over the
sticks, unless he had been specially trained and
tried for the risky job in hand. “ Owner up ”
meant in this case everything that a backer could
wish for. There is only one Malua, and if the
champion keeps well he will repeat over timber
the triumphs formerly scored on the flat.
One hundred and fcvrenty-seven thousand
five hundred and thirty-one tons o f qu irtz on the
Qaeen-laad fields have given 223,840 ozi. of gold.
“Your last hour has come!” grimly re
marked Sheriff Cowper. “No fear,” exultingly
retorted the prisoner, “My life’s insured in the
A.M.P. and I’ve been taking Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine quite reg’lar.”
The inquiry into the alleged Botany parallel
of the Keep-Burton (Maitland) poisoning-case has
finished, and Mrs. Collins has been committed to
take her trial on a charge of having poisoned her
two husbands with arsenic.
Cardinal Moran and the Pope have dis-
eased the Irish question. The Irish question is
generally understood to be “ Will vou have a
drink ?” It varies sometimes to, “ Would you
like me to bash ye, ye baste ?”
This year is the driest ever known in the
Wilcannia (N S. W.) district. Only two inches of
rain have fallen since its commencement. An
inch of rainfall means that 14,500 000 gallons of
water have fallen on an area of one square mile.
The Mayor of Adelaide is propsrly airing
his title. He has exhibited on an extensive plate
outside his office, in very large characters, “Sir
E. T. Smith.” He certainly ought to have com-
pleted the advertisement by adding K.C.M.G. It
would have been .so much better.
Parnell’s public denials (of which details
are now to hand per mail) of the authenticity of
the letters attributed to lion bv the Times, bear
the impress of truth and self-confidence. He
denounces the documents in question to be
palpable and impudent forgeries.
Br;idlaugh had his revenge When he
proved from the books of the Queen's Collie,
Galway, and other sources, that the now historical
title of Erank Hugh O’Donnell was mer«ly
assumed for ehc'ioneering and advertising pur£
poses by the London journalist in question, wbote
real name is Erank M‘Donald.
The directors of Pritchard Morgan’s Welsh
Cold-mining Co. (capital, £210,000—55. on appli-
cation, and balance on allotment) are set forth in
the prospectus as The Earl of WinchiVa. Lord
Mostyn, Hon. E. Hanbury-Tracy, M.P. for
Montgomery Borouarhs; Hon. GeorgeT. Kenyon,
M.P. for Denbigh Boroughs ; and W. Pritchard-
Morgan.
Some of the N.S.W. newspapers don’t
seem to fear the Supreme Court much now a-
days. When, the other day, a woman was com-
mitted for trial for alleged poisoning, a Sunday
print calmly and judicially spoke of her in a big
heading as “The Botany Borgia.” Isn’t it just
about time that their Honors stepped in and liook
measures to prevent the “press” from lynching
accused citizens ?
Miss Alice Cornwell (“ Princess MiJas ”)
has bought the Wyong (N.S.W.) estate (15,000
acres of mineral and agricultural land) at £l3 10a.
per a ere, or £202,000. The estate is situated about
00 miles from Sydney by railway to Newcastle.
When the latest borings were put down coal was
s'-ruck at a depth of 535 ft., the seam being then
sft. thick. At a further bore of 050 ft. the seam
was found to be Bfo. thick, and at 800 ft. a fine
s«am 12fo. in thickness was reached. Toe borings
show splendid bituminous coal passing through
fine green conglomerate and shale.
Daar Bulletin.— The admirer of Zola
Montez, the notorious actress, was not the brother
of the present King but Ludwig I. of Bavaria,
who resigned 1848, in favour of his son Max 11.
the Good ; this man ruled until his much
death in March, 1864, aud was succeeded by bis
son, the well-known Ludwig 11. of suicide re-
nown. Lola Montez was hissed and “ fired out ’
of Munich by the enraged guilds of University
snudents and Academical vouihs in 1848, and only
the resignation of the King would appease the
people sufficiently to prevent sanguinary conflict.
My father, who at that time studied at the
Academy in Munich, often told me of those greab
times. —Yours truly, Munich.
Mr. C. B. Shugg was, ihe other day, on
the occasion of bis leaving Sydney, presented by
the employ* es and proprietors of The Bulletin
with a very handsome gold watch. Shortly after
the introduction, some years ago, by The Bulle-
tin Company of the arb of photo-z:ncography—
first practised in Australia by Miss Lewis (now
Mrs. Eotheringhame), and now generally adopted
by the illustrated Australian Press—Mr. Shugg
was entrusted with its development, and suc-
ceeded in bringing it to a creditable pitch of ex-
cellence. He was thoroughly liked and kindly re-
garded by all with whom he came ; n contact, and
the Company relinquishes his faithful and valuable
services wii h much regret.
On Mondvv l*st a deputation waited up< n
Sir Thomas MTlwraith, the Queensland Premier,
at the Ecchange Hotel, and invited him to ad-
dress the ina-’gural public meeting of the Austral
lian National Party in N S.W. Sir Thomas re*
gretted that he was under medical commands*
nit to speak in public for sour time, bub he
should be glad to come to Sydney for the
special purpose of giving them an ad-
dress about November next. He stated
that the party in Queensland now num-
bered about 3000 members, aud that the
movement was growing rapidly. A conference
would bo- held in Brisbane in September, to
which delegates from N.S.W. and representatives
of other branches would be invited.
Mr. R. J. Aginton, whose portrait is
given in this issue, is one of the most accomplished
roller-skaters who ever visited Australia. He is
an American, vein may almosb be said to have
been born, brought up, and educated on skates.
Amongst professional gyrators he is popularly
known as the “ King of the Rink,” bub his repub
lican modesty will nob permit him to admit the
royal impeachment. He began to “ rink ”at an
early age for the pioneer roller-skate manufacturer
in the States. He has rinked his way upwards
till he now stands on the first roller-skate
of fame. He has dazzled the eyes and
beclouded the mental perceptions of the King
of Honolulu and his dusky suite. He has
beaten Wallace in a match for £lOO aside and
“championship of the world.” He has rinked
his way from ’Erisco to London, skating through
New York, Queensland, India, and the Kontenong,
till he finally put the sole of his skate on the soil
of N.S.W., and brought himself to a comparative
anchor at the Sydney Elite, where he now per-
forms in his own and matchless style.


kfei* Hotels.
*•11® Vue Hotel,
'*«i
BRISBANE,
Parliament Houses, Botanical Oar dsns
and Queensland Club.
**fcST-OLABS FAMILY HOTEL.
A °OOMtIODATION FOR NINETY.
Walter meets every Steamer,
Teletrams please address proprietor,
a M. COLLINS.
HOTEL, •OVLIUU.M.W.
T*?®**oLABS accommodation for commercial
and others. Private alttlnt rooms,
JWNs, JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
[° Dn * Morgan hotel, Queensland.
a! 1 ® distinguished patronage of His Ex-
A. Mtißgrave, K.C.M.G. Aoeommo-
•M "P visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
* wT 11 * » splendid view van be obtained of
mountain of gold, and within a few
hjji, ot the company’s works. Passenger
JVH.?* OIIO9 dally from Rockhampton and
Nr W. MONCKTON, Pro-
Arm of Monokton and Co.
MOTOT MORGAN.
***a«landliatlonal Hotel,
SO BEDROOMS.
C h 1111(1 been beautifully done up, and
>» J~** ready for the reoeptlon of visitors,
to Cellar stooked with beat brands
*Oll moderate. Mrs. Harass, Proprietress.
h
:i al Hotel, Bympie, Queenilaiti
®bove is one of the oldest Family and
Hotels In the odony. Prices
Semple room,
accommodation, Hot and Cold Baths
Mrs. COMPIGNB, Proprietress.
Foods’
HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Twsmihub, Srnrau-I
Patronising the above hotel, which
had an addition of over 100 rooms,
_ iStoj7®}odero Improvements, such as light,
w' tSaJjbu-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
iX hot and oold baths, shower
baths passenger elevator, eleotrlo
h? h>Jrr° n °, and all other hotel requisites, not
ln Australia. Visitors can rely
for early morning trains. Letters
Womptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprlstu
HOTEL, Albury.
W having become Lessee c
the riv w ell-known Hotel, begs to inti
WjU ravelling Public that every atten
Vr‘aurt?l Ven to the management to ensur
in to® very Best Accommodation pro
bN n"? colonies.
Oqiei tos of Rooms for Families.
1 Department will be under th
ghee of Mrs. Solomons,
hd Q CaB ' Milliards, .Hot and
> twitching Rooms. Magnlfioent bal
X&fi convenience.
SwJmC 8 brands. N.B.W. and Vic
toto. and telegrams promptlj
w «?ht porter.
I, SOLOMONS, Pvonrtstos
■ Alisas
* alucgi
Fi EnAX’s
CK OILS
OCATION,
FOB
CiTTLE & DOSS.
V. Drow over Oldest Scars.
N
\ Elt MEDal > SYDNEY, 1888,
? a Dressing for FRESH
fcW° RE ' backs, girth
knees, greasy
d quarter crack ’
™ Kv * > and as an Embrocation
stiff joints
V __
to. per BOTTJLE.
* tK AfiENT;
k M.P.S.,
K E STREET WEST,
■■■S STREET, redfern.
all
and
e Houses, i> lggists,
Business Announcements
K
//
4*<
1 ir
HAl»*CArru*£R»
«r
tiATstAPSt.
ASB CCOACC ST
jsydney
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
gTU DY
ECONOWt
and
Hate your Umbrella Frame* gp
entered, and your
Parasols re-lined and
to Hew, at
J. SULLIVAITfIs,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Biter-pool and Bathurst Street*.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes Repairs neatly executed
KIN G’S V'EWS
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&C«) &C»j
316 IMGE ST,, betveea Hunter-st, and S.P.O,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVDNEV
'MPORTERS Or All THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.:
UUP FUR (SIM W TO lINDTES.
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUHD.
kftrOoadu.CoMK.
imrp of til* Cheat «»?
laMncoMfol pnpuft'
tMSmg doily.
IT Ml A MGST JPUEABANT TABTE.
- “ tUUnnudwid
Inf c«MM, r«*-
IlMp eninw.
‘ «r«r (AmruiiM
• Os. Oat* of NeattaX
li, AiiHW XMtxur, Bxaufia
rriM 1* lAI. •* ML, *. NL, * HapwrbotSte.
v" 1 fM AM OHkfMM* MmW Mill yrmn itJ
T HE ORIGINAL
mm p 0
WAUGH'S %
;t ned *a.
FIRST award
HIGHEST DEGREE MERIT
WC/CH/&
J SSS
tSTHE'fc! ST INJiEMDRLO
NON OTHER BUT
CHS
HERN ATI ON AL
MEDAL
j 9! ANU F A*C TO IMED JAMES CHAHNOh
'' H aa bo wft:T 'IXPrMQf r
(Sold by AH Croc* wdCStottKeeper
Business Announcements.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE*
BEECHAM'S PILLS
VP
7PATENTr
w. * w
PILLS.
.ft?
v»A
*7
£
&
; ='V=
(§)
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
W ind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, Ac. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will'be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaTuable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEEOHAM’S PILLS have the Largest Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest-,
Wheezing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s. 9d, each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches i
64 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of Amerloa and
Canada, nan offer special facilities for dealing
In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred't. * < mmim
Drafts Issued and Bills cc’lected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLI* Acting Manager.
S'
CIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
I e The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
yn i ..according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY ob other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M., &0., o^? im
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON ■
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, baa
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”fl
63, FLINDERS STREET, WEST. MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronio and complicated Affections.
1 Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo-
tions, Genito .Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. Uit is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
~ ICONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not olaim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
* olaim only to be a skilled and suooessful Physician
loroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
'iWMlfl MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
’ F» nders Street W., Melbourne.
ena ction with any i-’ter Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 263. G.P.O.
fED, Files of 1 Bulletin for the
i aloe years, i t ilisher, Bulletin
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Jolmston ft Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Rydßiy
Robert butcher & 00.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out'Of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
"TTTTE can recommend the Imperial Hah
▼ t Cutting Saloon as the best In Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D* RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
&
“fSSssftmtrw
Mfl. BRONCHITIS. COUCHS
AS
AND ILL CHEST AFFECTIONS
av
KH’AS kN d HAM,*
OCKHAM PTOtL
G. STEPHENSON
HAS ON BALK-
WINE CASES, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
*rn» WMI MOMUeflS«d wIuUOT. .iron <f»'»
Boyd 3 * Bean* Elixir did this,
land m rill do tt on eithsr bald
'htad or ban foot, forces
heavy Moustache <n from 3 ™
_ 4 weeks and nsvsr fatts.fOJOOO ...
Ospyrighted. young men aCready wear full I'Jopyriehtsii
beards, having used l to 3 pi He. „Vo injury, easily applied, certain
In effect. Packets, Is. Gd. each, 3fOr 3s tid., post paid, sent ••ndsr
cover, fresfrom observation „ Address, IPl*»»k VouglKt. Bole mount,
Bov TSO, 5.r.Q.., Sydney, Ur.B W
s.
W ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin MakSf
896 PITT STREET.
Marquees on'Hire
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
Nr(UM *ll others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Tnßr.it Goto Manila—
PARIS.IB7B, CALCOTTA.IBB4,
tor pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
BAIT BE COLOGNE.
ia unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same' name.
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others tor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
Of alt Dealert, and of the Manufaclurtrt —
}. A E. ATKINSON,
It, Oho Bono Sthfkt, London
Trade Mark— “ White Rose" on “ Golden
R Lyre.”


yal mm
&AKIH G
POWDER
Absolutely #*ur©
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
bheßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdeb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO,,
New South Wales.
m WINBB, SPIRITS,
or
BBIIBS,
&0.,
a»o.
George and Qlpps Street*, Sydney.
BPBOIALITIESI-
- Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old)} W. Jamieson’s, DunyiUe’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, MarteU’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5,10,15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (In wood), imported and bottled by P.R.Ii.
Hr The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. «T All brands of Colonial Whies.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale wad Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prlnca of Wales’ Hotel, 778 ft 780 Goorge-otreot.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
m SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
MST-GMSi HUES’ IMIHIII 11! ui 1171711!
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Produce Stores * gipps street and darlinghurst road.
TTKATf OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS
P
NM IW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYMYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Mfllbwrßßp anil London.
ILLUBTRATBD CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FRKK ON APPLICATION,
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
WMNM, VIDM, rKI
11-MMISI®
Vot Artistic Posing an*
«nmy»ing softness anti h*" l **"
Photographs M —g
(NMLEMONT I"
[ROYAL AROAB*
STAND PREEMINENT!**
COLE MANE & $f
Eucalyptb UUi
Victory OnrtUjS*
A Pure Extract from the
Awarded SOLD MEDAL at uri'
beating ail other Bfd*»
Ist Prize Great Centennial ExW
Oan be used for Consumption,
ohltis. Rheumatism. Neuralgia, a
and Gravel Complaints, Sprang*
Gout, etc. Posted to any address
‘Manufactory: CootaM jjgoßl
Sydney Depot: 1 7 Cook Stb >
dr JEi, j« **. f.i/.t’Zg.
L.RG.P., Edln., L.R.0.&
registered in Great Britain,
London, specialist for the
and Heart Diseases, Sco. _
Consultation by letter or
charge, at Edgar Honse, NO.
Hunter-street Sydney.
In every
A Bleeeinr In e
rOLLOWAY’B PihhS
gttoW-
oegnisea. iraueeiairßowuuo-*-- - p
every disease W YOU *
laotured only at 78 New *
ohaeere should look to V**
II the address to net 6SB Oxlord-«*w*
spurious. >
WILLIAM BULLARD. 348 GEORGE STR
1 "" '■■ 1
BOOKS STATIONERY BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans. Easais, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese Curios.
’ ’ WAT.T, PROGRAMMES.
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT ..THE
Wertlieim
SEWING MACHINE OEPOTS
IN
VIC
t MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsok
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
ECHUOA
BEECH W ORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMROOL.
SALE
MARYBOROUGH..,
T O B I A..
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite'Golden Age Hotel,
Taglarfirf
■m
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAYBE
OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT TH £
Gk S'- PICKLES SOIjTS. Carriage
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
✓
a.i<£
I ,
City Repository: - -6, 7,8, II LAtROBE STREET WEST, «< E^-o*'
Metropolitan Manufactory: - 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET, F |TZ
H
ffi
H
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
3»w *v a TiT.T? n^nxrTTxnR 1 . PAT/rnTES WTTTT teTT APi “NT f T s TnTC!*> MORTTTA’RV inrvTTYisnvrn.Q irorra nr. a«q /of >
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for jSjfc
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as aw ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED if* ffte euenf o/ death within the Tc dine Period or in the Event of SnrvrocU,
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. *ssr Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
WIESENER’S
WA'Jj
fully
T~| AVE proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class Watches (in sterling Silver and Gold cases only) mo oo^'
JIX. and the Public can rely upon being served better and cheaper m the long r> a fnan in Ironmongers or Toy Shops, where the only aim can be “ t 0 » r vQjo^
WIESENER’B WATCHES! WIESENIR’S WATCHES
'AVI proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20
i&GELD6r HI iJl.fi V'l(ri 1 nnn in TmmnAnofOina at« Tait GKrtna turhnnn fRa Anlvr oim «■>-
PATENT LEVERS, from 70s. [«T WALTHAM WAE
her the Address— . om)
ge-street, Sydney (half-way between Hunter-street and
£T
ROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATCH COMPANY’S SIL\ E T
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Opticia
