

to
LOOK ©TJT K-OIS
HE BULLETIN'S" ANTI-CHINAMAN
A SPECIAL NUMBER. PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
Sla.o-wlxig' T^Tla.37’
*He leper must change his spots.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please mail their orders at once.
PRICE, 6d.
EMPIRE HOTEL,
~ fe. CORNER Or
U|| ter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
" '
Magnificent Family Hotel la constructed on the most modern principles.
>CS ? Vacated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Beat, of Attendance,
■‘k^ifcaw B consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
perfect, Bathrooms on eaoh floor. Litters and telegrams
attention:
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
. Jtowlaiid^,
MaeacA&arOil
*ud beautlfler of
most hair
fresh and
1 be jjJj'^ommended
GOLDEN COLOUR.
to/ tb* •>*# of rol
bottle* equal to four small,
truable. has been especially prepared
K' ’ ttod ,i r .°. r Krey-haired adult* Size* 3». fid.; f* ; family
4b “OWI A U hftt S ' 7 ' ft
kalydor la a healing and retre*htng preparation for
fixj r . ' ®hu artns; It eradicates freckles, tan. sunburn, eczema redoes# and roughnesa
K e *if>n ’ Phhples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produce* * beautiful and delioata
’ > o^he na *"AWOS ODOiTO whitens the teeth, present: and arrest* decay,
Nr>o. S.'inis. and grvei. * d*VLg-htfnl frier*"'-* 5 *f;vwhftre for
deleft, of 20 J
aß(i Retail Agenta—EixiotT Bros., and K, Prosser & Co., Sydney,
AND OJNTMKNf,
*f»nrt owUUod world wfiere
5 wLS! «utte^B»? edlolne, &*« Qo * beer
their Deuefiuent
use Id e»er* dUeme
THEM
OxjroßD-ST., London.
n J°°lc tn tiTVOKU-ST., L
n °* s*l (/A 6 k»bel on the
u **ord*t» M t La
Bosei »od
Laadin. <•>*’
ABIJC!.
! If t . OFFICR.
*n Cl 6i* a^
Xta
*8 8u t ) PUed with reliable l»
*<T
MA*»UrACTu*£RJ
A IMPORTERS Of
—-
HATS CAPS it
S r
SYDNEY m
fs
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR."
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and v. e guarantee it for two (2) years, PRICK, 10s. 6d. each. Send P.O. Order,
CI3-A.ZO- slihlcl iVITKEIT,
POTOSI HAIR DRESSING SALOON,
680 GKORGE-STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
READ
if
The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“ Australian Land Nationaliser."
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.&.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
yoascasr
organ °J b . he Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. It.
JL to to firmly Inaugurate In Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform—to d
for these colonies what the Standard Is doing for Amerioa. It has already a more wide-snre»<i
cirouladon than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales
to A *}? and written, and every man who has the Interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and Induce others to do so. Everybody interested in this movement who does not*j
ready belong to the Association Is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS— i2a. PER ANNUM.’
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND tfo3 SPECIMEN OOP!AS
If
eSAUG
.r:
A*pßm<
* sequence of Imitations TEE WORCESTEMEMIP &
SAUCE which are calculated to decern: the Public, Urn and Pemm
have to request that Purchaser* m thud ito LaM m m>rp rntik
hears their Signatur*
Without which m htiU of the original WORCESTMRSMMM
SAUCE is gmmim,,
Ant /or LEA and PEEEjU'VG’ Saute, and see Name ex Label, AM* meed
Stopper. Wholesale and far Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse md
Blmrioell, London, &“e,„ N't : and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World*
' PIHI.W >mmu , < .nr> -- Hum If-WHIIMII I I M»in lluminniimn Ihniiinin „ iiiilP
Wholesale Rentes 1 Joseph & Co., i David Cohkn & Co., Sydney.
The Bulletin


Waveiley Hotel,
OOLUNS-PLACE, COLLIN e-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
OOBfOtt to* Vialton, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters sad Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MRS M. COLES, Proprietress
Q
e
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &0., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS,CUES,BULLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Sqaare, LONDON,
7, Little
ARD MAN BROS.
GOL*f*Sr*mri
TkmmFmpmmwmmmw&.* s «~{LJ : o7D
COBR’AMORS
IMP.FRI'A'L
AAO
Trcacu
RfrrnfAS
wr i factory. Harrow*
B/fA/TCH. Cca*€£ ST. SYtMffY
FJIHE
AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY’
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE CORNER of PITT and
MARKET STREETB. SYDNEY.
Incorporated bt Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Han. frauds Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J. F. Martin, Bsq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Soott, Esq.
Arnold Mathsy, Esq,
The Back transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advanoes
open all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
din and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed: —
at oall, S per cent.; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per
sent. ; 13 months, 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'NAMABA, Secrerary.
THOS. BUUKLAND.
MINING MACHINERY, AND GENERAL A(MNI
OHARTXBS IOWIM,
Agent for Bobey and Co., Engineers, Llnoolni
„ i, Langland's Foundry Co., Melbourne VSs
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AQKNI,
Minins Ezobansn.
CHASTEBB TOWERS, QUEBHBLAED.
Sr
LLAS
COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
knd
■eve four Umbrella VreMft n>
•overed end four
fiiMOli re-lined end Mdi mi
to New, el
J, SULLIVAN'S.
541 George Btreet,
Briokfield Hill, between
Liverpool end Betbnret Btreeta
Pereeole niede to weteb cot
Keoeiri neeMj ezeented
ALAN B.
BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
0 BARTERS TOWERS
GaXJEIEIITSL-A.1T13«
Millar, carter, and 00.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency. —John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher a oo
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGESTREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and out Of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue
BRIS£AN£i.
Opposite .Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMODATION FOR 90.
A Waiter Meets Every Steamer.
Letters and telegrams
prietor.
please address pro-
-8 M. COLLINS.
MARSHALL'S
TbNIC nervine
Tbadb Mark—“TONIC NERVINE,"
Marshall s tonic nervine
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion,
Cores Nervous Debility-
Bold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price l/fl.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Bydnnt, N.B.W. i London, England,
- Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets'
SOUTH BRISBANE,
First'olasa Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house In the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
s.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makei
396 Pitt-street.
a - -
5.
i '
U 4 A.. i'
*M» U*km&
Uarqueea on Hire.
THE ORIGINAL
Baking
P Ofr
WAUGH'S
>?
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
o R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MErtll
•STHEBESTINTHE WORLD
NONE OTHER BUT
1
WAUC H 5
RC-£ i V 115 Ttt E ‘NT £R NAT\ON A L
PR IT E MEDAL
MABUfACTURED ByJAMEsOIAKIKMI
Hakbcuk « t firoeit
SddfejAD CsoctotiufStßnfrMi
Kiftr.Ertßr-E S 3 tow»Kw.Tcs sr*cJ> o.
JAY'S PRINOB OP WALE’S HOTEL,
ST. RILDA.
THIS flrst-olaas Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors and residents, being in a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Hilda Railway Station. Private suites
of apartments. Ladies’ drawing-room. Gentlemen's
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL OP ART HOTEL,
MAOKAY.
XT'
SURPASSED accommodation for oommsr-
Dial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make oomfort of travellers a speoial study,
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A, V, ROBINSON,
TOBACCO
DKSON & SONS
TOBACCO WORKS.
SYDNEY.
’ MbaooO* 1 *
TY XSON * °° N<3 ™f“ roSo
D ot only manufactures MOR® 1V
THAN ANT OTHKR, bnt CONSUMES
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF
'nfco New South Wales, and hence the **«*
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any
Australia. *iPO
TANEEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER. CHAM*
BOld leaf - urgfl&
DIXSONS CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL W*
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1
10,000 per hour, the oholoest ft
and Paris rice tissue. Full sire
retailers at 3d per packet. 10 dtP*®
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
‘GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The'Central Hotel. Private Sitt Room.
Rendezvous (or all parties engaged In mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook’s). First-class ehtf.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Jura., Proprietor.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
forwarding agents
Head Office: Townsville, I. Queensland.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
Mr. BOLTON (of the Arm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling public that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and faoing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will And every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival.
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the aooommoda-
tlon of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within live minutes’ walk of the Hotel. Ooaohm
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Noth yhr Addrbhs—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of kha Firm ■( Lowry ft Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
Save* labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, ai a condensing matter to less chan
one-hair the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
I Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agen ,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Rent-street.
M
O N U M E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded <
. on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
Margaret-street, Wynyard-square, Sydney.
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut’
ting Saloon as the best In Brisbane-
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address 1
Temple Building, George-street, blx doors from
Queens-street. A. COOPER, Proprietor.
The science o t life,
By W. Knox Parkhr, M.D.
A Book for yonng and old men. SOO pages*
bound in doth, and contains over 100 presorlp
tlons. Price, post paid, Bs. Bd. Descriptive
■ample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work Address j Doctor W. K.
Parker, Poßt Office Chambers, oorner Bourke and
Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne, Vic.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B- HUQHITEI’S
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the most central and well appointed .of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Not* the Address—
-06 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
TATTERSALL'S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, TattersaU’s Hotel, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tlokets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery;
aim enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
MOULT
tIV*R OOVPLArNT pMltlrely crir*l g
FRUIT PILLB. W f meat! eared, oo* ' l *"'’ nur a> *“>
we ou prov* what we »T. J**™ !? x piLl* *lf D< :
dlmppnlDUnente. MOULTON 8 g 1
ell BII.IOUBNBBB, prevent CONSTIPATE,
PP.PSLA, pnxaote DIGESTION, relieve «
heart; eating, correct DISORDEB9 " w a
•M mutate the UVRU, regulate the BOW* 1 W .
THB BLOOD. The Clieapeet and Bert It l t -rl o' L
known, purely Vegetable (mvie of the pul w
ili»y are a» nearly perfect ae it Is pdaeihle
9*14 Irerywh*™- t
s c. f. not/irw sc/*
QUB® 11
OUNT MORGAN HOTBL
Under the distinguished patronaS
oellenoy Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M-W’ »
datlon for 60 visitors. Two-storey ® 0
the balconies a splendid view can
the celebrated mountain of gold, »»
minutes' walk of the company’s wo p#
and mail ooaohes daily from R .?.!!!So£T™'
Klbra railway-stations. W. MU ,
pritor, of the firm of Monokton anoj^^'
g
R m - r 1 ffor ce) ,
• . (late of the Detective r
Private Inquiry, Missing Frie “l B ’,f D
Business Agency Offi° e
il^.
42 ROYAL ARCADE, S^’rfljJ
Absconders and wife deserters tr £,® o is’ e n% .tft 1 J
jonfidentlal inquiries instituted for 01/
livorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary caB ®Jtifi°Titie,/
teßßion and others. Ooiies of wills, 0( VV
marriage, or death, obtained in an? fc/sloSWjl'
Rents and debts collected. Prom R
in the Detective Force of New South ,y j 0 sUJK
New Zealand, and established agencie . r jeBjJTjllJ
globe, he is in a position to conduct ail Mpto f? r/ 6,
expedition and strictest secreay, to t l “ y
sxpedition and strictest secresy, to»
promptly attend to all business entrust*** ■
'^iec
MACHINERY
LAND
AND
MARINE
ENGINES,
BOILERS
PUMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT
LOWEST COST
/
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS,
ESTIMATED FOR COM p
lM
ROBERT COOPER W
SOLE
Sydney:
111, PITT STREET.
KING
12.
PREBQBI
be found In t* e
pgrr
mtC be found In the
LIFE,” for the Speedy Core of *
bllity and Kindred Diseases, fot "
book will be sen*i Free, soft*® '
Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & COo
■AST STREET, R° ?
4V FIRST-GLASS **■*#,&
Plunge and Sbo*®* gf^
Private Sitting Room, with®
Sood Stabling. Every
JAB. WILLIAM^/h
DR. RICHA^
nXC o fi W\
Send for large Bound
for all Nervous Diseases ;
ages. 6d. in stamps. Cons u^ fc gJi ct
and the Dootor will tell y°H dr esr''
oaae is ourable or not. Ad
DR. RlCH^i,
7 SPRING &&
sydnb»*


The Bulletin
v«5 p <425
SATURDAY, MARCH 24, 1888
Price, Od,
Bung Hi’s Pre-emptive Claim.
BU NG HI “HIM ALLEE SAMEE NO SABEE DLIS MY BUNK. ME PAYUM YOU, ME S[?]EEPKE HERE."
LANDLORD JOHN BULL: "HI! YOU AUSTRALIAN, YOU'D BETTER LET BUNG HI SHARE THAT BED. I AGREED TO LET HIM STAY &ERE."


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
Sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of <$iy Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to reside ts of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
“THE BULLETIN,
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 Os. Od
Half-yearly ... .. ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques, Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
fjiterqry communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 24, 1888.
LOOK OUT FOB
"THE BULLETIN’S” ANTI-CHINAMAN.
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
To ensure supply , distant agents will please
mail their orders at once.
PRICE—SIXPENCE.
A Brace of Blatherskltes,
MR. Daniel O’Connor is a retired pork-butoher
in Sydney. By the grace of the bigotry and ig-
norance of the electors of West Sydney he is a
member of Parliament for New South Wales; he
was once, for nearly three weeks, a Minister of
the Crown ; and he is descended, he says, from a
royal line. For the rest, he is what circum
stances have made him; and for that he is
not, we suppose, to be held morally responsible.
He is an M P. because the Green and Orange fac
fcions settle those matters between them in Syd-
ney ; he has been a Minister, it is said, beoause
Sir John Robertson appointed him ‘ ’ for a joke
and he is of royal line because most Irishmen of
his peouliar type are descended from some Irish
king or other in such reckless profusion that Irish
royal Institutions have been long since brought
into undisguised contempt. This is one blather
skite. Mr Robert (likewise Burdett) Smith is
the other. He is an attorney ; but he is neither
retired nor retiring. On the contrary, he neg-
lects no opportunity, so that it be fatuous enough
for his level, to obtrude himself on the notice ot
the public. He is also a member of Parliament,
by the grace and favour of nothing or nobody h.
particular. He has never yet been a Minister of
the Crown, for he is not the kind of person that Si>
John Robertson would care to play practica
jokes upon. And, though he is not descender
from a royal line—we know of only a vice-royal
house named Smith— he has enough soapy drivel
about “ loyalty ’’ and the “ throne,” and other be-
wildering tommy-rot of that kind, ooncealed
about his cherubic person to cargo a missionary-
ship.
• * *
The pork-man and the attorney-at-law are com
peting against each other just now. Mr. O’Con-
nor has been cultivating the role of a species
Of literary body-snatcher. Thucydides, Demos-
thenes, Socrates, Cicero, Kendall, and a host
of other worthies have been resurrected from their
wormy beds by this pig-sticking apostle of old
Greek culture and modern literature and taste.
The first four have been turned adrift under
names that would have Berved them as effective
disguises from their nearest blood relations, and
exposed to vulgar ecorn as the mere creatures and
Instruments of Mr. Dan O'Connor, M.P. Thit
it was to have lived ! Had they foreseen their
fate, Socrates would have drunk the hemlock in
early childhood, and Cicero would certainly
never have run away from the bloody-minded
persons—quotation from David Gaunson— who
wanted to cut his head off. Demosthenes and
Thucydides have ceased to be anything more
than skins for this eloquent politician’s sausages
of oratory ; and poor Kendall’s marble tomb is
an eleotioneering plaoard of Mr. O Connor to the
sesthetio electors of West Sydney setting forth
how he wants to raise a tomb to Daniel Henry
Dehiehy,
Mr. Smith wants to trump him by a statue to
Captain Arthur Phillip. He (Smith) helped to
put up a s asue to Capt *in Cook, and has he not
beea presented by an ao miring populace with a
Bm*ll silver oast of that public monument ? He
helped to pub up a statue to the Quean —and did
he nob drive (in a cab !) on a certain memorable
occasion along the lines of a children’s precession
and direct (from a cab !) the ceremony of the laying
of the foundation-Btone of the pedestal ? Like
the tiger in the Indian jungle, he has tasted b’ood.
He will have more. Tae O'Connor bas resur-
rected Kendall’s mem)ry. He also must have
another victim. And he ghoulishly proceeds to
resurrect someone else.
* # *
The raoe will ba a hot one. If one competitor
is handicapped by a statue, the other has to hump
along a tombstone. Both are fleet of foot, but
the literary pig-sticker has the advantage in the
article of grease. The Bulletin has no de3ira
to interfere and spoil a contest which ought to be
as interesting as a fight to a finish or a race be-
tween lady bicyclists. But there oertainly can be
no harm in stating the conditions of the contest.
Why should Phillip get a statue ? He was
the first Governor of New South Wales—that is
to say the first gaoler who took charge of the
Botany Bay felons. He it was who waß chosen to
stamp the convict brand on Australia’s virgin
shoulder, and rend her wnite flesh with the first
strokes of the convict cat. He had the privilege
of introducing the cat and the gallows, the spiked
iron collar, the hopeless slavery of the chain-
gang, and the bloody spirit of the penal laws
that still remains to disgrace the Australian
statute-book. He personifies all that is black
and revolting—all that can disgust and sicken
the national sentiment. His name stands for
conviotism and judicial murder and Botany Bay—
for the most degrading phase of Australian his
tory and the foulest stain on the growing nation’s
escutcheon, By all means, then, let him have a
statue. We have preserved in our penal legis-
lation and in the spirit of our laws the state of
things introduced by the gaolers of the first chain-
gang. If we are not ashamed of these, there is
really no reason why Captain Phillip, our first
oonvicb gaoler, should not have a statue which
will remind us of that from which we have
sprung,
* * •
So much for Mr. Smith’s fad. Mr. O’Connor’s
must not be neglected. Deniehy was a man of
delicate taste, fine scholarly attainments, and of
distinct literary sympathies. He wrote and
talked as few men wrote and talked in this
country, at a time when people were too
busy pig-jobbing to listen to or to read
him. Disgusted and wearied with his brutal
and commonplace surroundings, he drank
himself to death, and his brilliant intellectual
gifts fizzled out in a Bathurst gutter. He
was huddled away underground, while the plg-
jobbers waxed fat and rich, and began to talk
about Thucydides and Cicero, too. But he
didn’t, and he died. We are asked to give him a
monument because he, who didn’t job in pigs,
fizzled out in a gutter; and a successful pig-
jobber lives to ask us to give it to him ! Words
fail us here. We stop to gasp.
• * *
As there is a taint of the chain-gang about the
proposal to erect a statue to Phillip, so there
is a flavour of blood-sausages about the sug-
gested memorial to the literateur Deniehy.
The fact of the matter is that so long as the
political sentiment of the colony of New South
Wales allows itself to be expressed by such men
as Mr. Robert Smith it will continue to clamour
for statues for convict-gaolers. And so long as
the fine arts and literary culture of the colony
look only to blathering pork-butchers like Mr.
Dan. O’Connor, M.P. , for recognition, the
memory of men like Daniel Henry Deniehy
will be vulgarised every time it is touched. The
name itself has now only ludicrous associations
Tae proposals of a statue to Phillip and a monu-
ment to Deniehy are emanations irom the same
Mass of mind, unsparingly expressing the senti-
ment of a certain stage of suoiety.
liberty and Law."
Among Australian journals perhaps the most
misinformed and irredeemably ignorant upon
all matters appertaining to social reform,
and the proposed methods of Socialists, is
the Sydney Morning Herald, the organ of the
well-to-do descendants of the New South w a les
Corps of the past, but the other day a Sydney
evening paper scored the highest point in the
way of bourgeois ignorance of the meaning o£
Socialism, when it attempted a review of a
London Socialistic publication Liberty and
Law,” by George Lacy, who was not long ag i
a resident of Sydney, and honorary secretary
of the Liberal Association of New South Wales,
besides being editor of a local journal called
the Liberal. Nothing in this review is so
amusing as the reviewer’s absolute ignorance
of the doctrines of Socialism and the theories
of Herbert Spencer. Of course, all Sydn y
press writers pretend to hold in deep reverence
all scientists of assured reputation, but how such
reverence is congruous with the policy of their
papers they do not attempt to explain. Fortu
nately, however, they do know nothing
about the tendency of modern science, so they
blunder along in blissful ignorance. The reviewer
wastes a lot of space in getting off a number of
watery jokes anent Mr. Lacys “attempt at the
refutation of the individualism of Mr. Herbert
Spencer,” under the impression, evidently, that/
Spencer is a doughty champion of the Propert J
and Defence League, and is being attacked by L
totally new brand of Socialist. The reviewer is/
ignorant of the fact that Spencer, like all men
of brains—who bell the truth about it—
who consider the problem of existence and at-
tempt to gauge the position of man in his relation
to the cosmos from the standpoint of natural
science, is a Socialist, a far more scientific and
thorough-going Socialist than Mr. Lacy, and their
point of disagreement is only concerning a mere
side-issue that affects nothing vital on either h*nd,
The journal in question shonldrecollect that smaller
men than Lacy have in times past overthrown
greater men than Spencer, and the difference of
opinion is here so small as to be hardly worth con-
sidering by the broad-minded Socialist. - Mr.
Lacy is a plagiarist, but the man who attempts
to review his book, takes all his assertions as
hypotheses for the first time advanced. This
shows its qualifications for the las it has assumed.
Lacy has borrowed freely from Hyndman, Max
Nordau, Gronlund, and from Spencer himself,
the wonts of the latter being-although the
reviewer does not know it—a perfect gold-mine to
the Socialistic writer.
# * *
Herbert Spencer, in his “ Social Statics,’
lays it down as an axiom that ‘‘every man has
freedom to do all he wills, provid d ho infringes
not the like freedom of every other man.” This
is the bone of contention over which Lacy
harangues, but the paper can hardly desire
more socialistic utterance from even Lacy him
self, indeed, La@y is the natural champion of this
paper’s own policy as it is carried out in its own
office ; for there, certainly, Spencer’s axiom re
ceives no recognition. Laurence Gronlund
and, in fact, the entire school of modern German
Socialists have been laid under contribution to
produce “ Liberty and Law,” which is simply a
resume of their doctrine?, and a bald plagiarism
by Mr. Lacy of their proposed methods. There
is not an original line in the book. The whole o:!
it is better expressed in “ The Co-operative Com
monwealth ” of Gronlund, an infinitely clearer
and more logical exposition of the principles of
modern German Socialism. Lacy writes, re-
peating gronlund
Individualism leads directly to Nihilism.
He then proceeds to point out that the same spirit
which is seeaing to subvert authority in Russia is
under necessarily different conditions at work in
England, and straining heaven and earth to gain
its ends. Says the delightfully obtuse and illogi-
cal organ of uninformed dullness :
How Mr. Lacy manages to ride double on paradoxes of
this description may be indicated by a brief quotation from
his book. "English Nihilism,” he says, "is promulgated in
the interests of the haves ; Russian in the interests of the
have nots. English Nihilists preach the abolition of Govern-
ment, because they believe that thereby the positions of pro-
perty and wealth would be secured and strengthened
Russian Nihilists do the same because they believe that
thereby the position of the poor will be bettered. Both
classes as a body are animated by an intense desire to do as
they like and follow their own interests in their own way,
regardless of what misery they may brl g upon others.” The
parallel instituted in this case is, it must be confessed, a good
deal suggestive of that famous one between the river in
Monmouth and the river in Macedon; perhaps of the two
Mr. 'Lacy’s is even the more strained.
It must be confessed also that few men would
have taken so much trouble as the reviewer has
done to write themselves down a Dogberry.
The whole statement is simply a reproduction of
what can he found in any Socialistic work.
Socialism i 3 the very antipodes of Anarchism,
The one is revolutionary and progressive, while
the other is reactionary and retrogressive. Let
us quote from Gronlund : '
The coming Revolution is strictly an evolution ; it is not a
class movement, but a growth of the whole oody politic. . .
There is a Reaßon in the Universe that has appointed for us
the roucl which we must travel, which we therefore do travel,
not by choice, not voluntarily, but spontaneously. . . .
Socialism is inevitably the next stage in our development
. . . Englishmen who simply want t"> be well-in funned
ought to make themselves acquainted with this new philo-
sophy—Socialism is no»hiDg less than that—which ia be
lieved in by hundreds of our fellow-men with a fervour
equalling the enthusiasm of the early Christians. ... A
revolution by viol lice is to Society what a hurricane is to a
ship struggling on th stormy ocean ; it is omy by herculean
efforts that we shall succeed in avoiding the rocks and bring-
ing it into the secure haven.
* * *
Laurence Gronlund shows very clearly in the
above that he regards any attempt to secure sal-
vation by force as simply a means of confirming
what he terms the “present w ocial ;rder, or, rather,
Social Anarchy," and Edward and Eleanor
viarx Aveling, the avowed aposiles of German
Socialism to the United States, put the matter
even plainer :
The popular idea of Socialism was everywhere there, as it
is still to a large extent in Engla d, one of misconception
founded on misrepr sentuiun The placing of Socialism
and its principles before the people has, ho-ever, been fol-
lowed in America, as in England, by the discovery of « vast
amount of this unconscious Socialism. Large numbers of
persons, fiadieg at last that Socialism does not mean equal
division of property, nor the application of dynamite to
Capitalists, nor anarchy, have in town after t wn, by
hundred upon hundred, declared, “ Well, if that is Socialism,
we are Socialists !"
Elsewhere Aveling says :
The mass of the American working class . . had been
grievously misled by Capitalist papers (!) ... It must
not be, for oue moment, imigiued from this that the doc-
trines preached by us, as the mouthpieces for the time being
of the Socialist p>riy, were not revolutionary. Tno.e we e
as ah Socialist teachings must be, of th« most revolutionary
character. 'he mistake into which the Americans had fallen
was the common one, that Anarchism is r» voluti inary
Anarchism is reactionary, aiid the Socialist 1 hour party of
America, like its most rrcent speakers, are not Anarchists
because they are revolutionists.
It will be seen that Lacy has borrowed his state-
ment ; that it is not original, although it is abso-
lutely logical. Elsewhere Aveling strongly in-
sists upon tne antagonism existing between Anar-
chism or Nihilism and Socialism •
It is hardly necessary to say that, as Socialists, we are not
Anarchists, and are, of nec-snty en irely opposed to the
methods and aims of Anarohism [or Ninibsm]. It is true
both Anarchist aid Socialist attack the present capitalist
system But tie Anarchist attacks it from the individualist,
conservative, reactionary point of view, the Ssocialist from the
Communist, pr grewive, revolutionary staudp >int. The two
schools—if one can be called a school which has no definite
programme, no clear teaching—have, in fact, nothing in
common. It is characteristic that the most violent attacks
made on us during our tour in 1886 were made by Anarchist
writers and speakers. The Chicago eapitalUt Press warned
us to he hanged after we had landt-d ; Herr Most’s paper
Die Fbeiheit, was for shooting us "on sight” before vie
landed.
The paper concludes its review of Lacey’s book
with tnese lines :
Among his dissertations on " Liberty and Law” is one on
the * ' Liberty of the Preas ” . . . From this it is
rather »troogly to be inferred that the new liberty which
Socialism is to bring will, if Mr. Lacy interprets its prin-
ciples aright, smack not a little of very old-fashioned
tyranny.
Perhaps the reviewer will be surprised to learn
that Lacy but echoes the words of many
Socialists in regard to the Press, which wrong-
fully usurps the position of the voice of the public,
when it is only a mere business and speculative
concern We hope, for said paper’s satisfaction,
shortly to reprint a translation from the German
of Max Nordau on the “ ibarty of the Press,”
which we strongly commend in advanoe to this
fossilised organ of middle-class ignorance*
PLAIN" ENGLISH,
The Lever or the Lie.
The Sydney D.T. says of the recent prosecution
of a Sunday paper :
A law which would prohibit knowledge from circulating on
Sunday or aDy day is fit only for a community of pagans.
In England the Sunday press as a moral and social elevator
of the people takes rank with the Sunday pulpit, and the
authorities would as soon think of interfering with one as
the other.
The “ pagans ” so cheaply sneered at as the pro-
hibiters of Knowledge were, doubtless, those poor
Greeks and Romans who were never blessed with
a newspaper and its e lightened rechauffe of
murders and oriminal assaults and horrible acoi-
dents and attacks on private character and politi-
cal misrepresentation, and glozlng over of
political mi>deeds in the interests of “com-
mercial management.” No, the
poor wretches, hadn’t a Daily Telegraph i
They had to be content with a Lucian,
a Plato, an Aristotle, a Homer, a
Cicero, or a Seneca. They wallowed in the
mire of their own ignorance and went down to
the cold and silent tomb without having heard of
any of Parkes private loans or insolvency sche-
dules, or the D T.’s own pet crusade in the interest
of land-auctioneering democracy. But the pitiful
“ gag ” about knowledge is too thin. Knowledge
is truth and the daily Press is a liar. Tne remark
about the Sunday Press of England being a moral
and eocial elevator which takes rank with the
Sunday pulpit is a delirious fib. The Sunday
Press of England is mainly a. police-court gazette.
It is plethoric with gunshots, hangings in garrets,
seductions, starvation, wife-desertion, stabs from
carving-knives, brains beaten out by pokers.
“ Moral and social elevator !” This is rough on
the Sunday pulpit! The truth is. the English
Sunday Press is like the Sydney daily Press—
a cold-blooded business speculation, in which
that cause is advocated wbioh pays best.
Why does the D.T. continue to babble
about the “authorities”? The “authorities”—
even in caste-ridden England—are servants
elected by the public to give effect to its will. It
wills to have a Sunday Press, and it has one.
Ttsere is no eternal and abstract ideal involved.
The Londoners lead suoh lives of oppressive daily
dolness and commonplace ; they wander amongst
so muoh interminable bricks and mortar that
their existence becomes unbearable, so they en
liven matters one day out of seven by gloating
over a wife-murder or the slaughter by a starving
man of his seven children, followed up by his own
suicide. The reading of mere newspapers is an
alarming national trait. It is a sign of decay.
People read leading articles when they no longer
possess the ooncentrativeness essential to the
perusal of the masterpieces of literature. They
gloat over pugilistic encounters when they
have esased to be a nation of warriors ; they
read divorce court proceedings after they have
discontinued to marry; they no longer contend
in the arena—they bet on the contest; they
become saints simply because their rakish vigour
has deparbed (the bald-headed man glareth at the
ballet-girl); they read novels because their own
lives are destitute of romance, and newspapers
because they are incapable of thinking for them,
selves, and have an unhealthy morbidity for the
gruesome details of oommonplace blood-shed
everyday brutality. The D.T. advooatesthe Aus-
tralian national sentiment. The advooaoy is
futile, for the very people who read the enervat-
ing twaddle of the daily Press are just the people
in whose sickly breasts no flower of national senti-
ment oould ever struggle to maturity.
+
The “ S.M. Herald” and the Mew South Wales
Supreme Court.
I he confidential relations which seem to exist be-
tween some of the political judges of the New South
Wales Supreme Court and the Tory and Foreign-
trade Sydney Morning Herald are quite a
novel thing in the histories of the Press and
the judicial bench. The way in which the
Herald bosses, as it were, the Supreme
Court and that some of the judges defer
to the out-of date Tory and Imperial organ
in Hunter-street are ■ ruly remarkable. Not long
since when the Herald expressed its displeasure
at a judgment delivered by Mr. Justice Innes
that learned gentleman did what no other British
judge who ever lived has done, namely, he wrote
to a newspaper—the Herald— explaining and de-
fending his judgment—fur which he owed no re-
sponsibility to anyone except to hia own
conscience and the Privy Council, Suoh
conduct was eminently infra dig. and
and anyone would have hoped that it was unique
in the history of the British judiciary, but it
seems it is not. Mr. Juscioe Windeyer is capable
of showing something quite as un-judgelike as
that displayed in Sir George Innes s course of
aciion in the Levy-Kurtz case. Before the
judgments of the three judges who formed the
Full Court, when the appeal of Rogerson against
a conviction for selling newspapers on a Sunday,
were delivered, the dissenting judgment of Mr.
Justice Windeyer was in the office of the Syd
ney Morning Herald, in type and printed,
Now, nothing is deemed so solemn and saored in
the legal profession as a judgment of the Full
Court. When such a deliverance is “
the judges meet in secret conclave and argue out
the points in dispute, and if they all agree, the
junior judge draws up the judgment of the Court
and submits it to another meeting of the judges.
If the members of the Court oannot arrive at a
common decision, each judge prepares his own
judgment. The only outside person (if so he may
be called) who possibly becomes aware of the
nature of the judgment is one of the judges’ asso-
ciates, who perhaps is entrusted with the duty of


■'-Making out a clean copy, without erasures or
alterations, of the judgment of the Court, or of
his own particular judge. This gentleman’s lips
are always sealed as to the import of the docu-
ment which he has copied. A reserved judgment
is supposed to be, and as an almost universal rule
ia buried in the heads of the judges till they take
their seats in open Court and deliver it in public.
Now, that a judge should practically deliver his
judgment in a private newspaper office, to, we sup-
pose, an editor, sub-editor, overseer, several compo-
sitors, a couple of proof-readers and goodr ess knows
how many more people, before the parties to the
case or their legal advisers know anything about
it, is an anomaly which many people would re
fuse to give credence to. Imagine the possibili-
ties of sach a course. If a man were convicted
of a disgraceful offence, sentenced to a long term
of imprisonment, gave notice of appeal and was
liberated on bail, before the judgment of the
court was delivered, he might be made aware by
a friend employed in a newspaper office that the
decision of the appellate court was against
him, and he might take prompt measures to
esoape from justice. This is only one in-
stance of the numerous things which might
happen if the judgments of the Courts were to be
confided by a judge to the officials of a newspaper.
The suitors have a paramount claim upon the
Court, and they should have the first and earliest
communication regarding the fate of their cause.
By disclosing the purport of his judgment in the
Rogerson ease to the Sydney Morning Herald,
Mr. Justice Windeyer practically disclosed the
judgment of the Court, because his was a dissent-
ing judgment, and, of course, by inference, the
decision of the Chief Justice and Mr. Justice
Owen was published in the Herald office. I
can hardly he believed that men of long expe-
rience in their profession “at home” and in this
colony, and lawyers with judicial minds like
Chief Ju3tioe Darley and Mr Justice Owen
would have given their approval to a course so
extraordinary atd unparalleled as that pursued
by Mr. Justice Windeyer. This is a thing of
frequent occurrence at the New South Wales
Supreme Court, but Roger=on’s case is the
latest instance. We should like to know what
Chief Justice Higinbotham, ex Chief Justice
Stawell or ex-Chief Justice Molesworth, of
Viotoria, would do if he became aware of the
fact that one of his puisne judges had gone and
disclosed the secrets of the consultation room to
a private newspaper. Whether the praotice is
approvid of by the Chief Justice or not, it is
dangerous and improper notwithstanding. .
Royalty and Items. ”
Two ancient and moss-grown institutions, senile
with antiquity and their hides enorustei with 1 he
barnacles of time, have recently sustained a vei y
hsrd knock. Bradlaugh has administered a
vicious stab in the vital part of parsondom, whilst
Labouchere has taken a pot-shot at the he-
reditary ruler, and scared a point off the radiant
creature who governs by virtue of a glittering
genealogy. The senior member for Northampton
has succeeded in securing tbe abolition of the oath
In other words, the belief in the active interfer.
enoe of Providence in the affairs of man has been
negatived by a resolution of the Legislature
There is, however, previous little gained. Man is
nufe not a whib more truthful than heretofore,
and he is beginning to fear no longer the flames cf
hell. His reason is bec:ming more enl ghtened,
but bis conscience is dwindling down to Euclid’s
definition of a point. Bradlaugh has irsarted
the thin edge of the wedge. Modern society is
built upon the quicksand of religious belief. The
church is officially recognised in England. Bishops
vote in the Lords. Marriage is a eacerdota 1
sacrament. A man is not socially born in Eng-
land until the parson attests to his existence. He
cannot hold landed property without recognising
in tithes the existence of the God of the medern
clergy. He cannot die without ecclesiastical
sanction. It is at this fabric of faith so inseparably
bound up with a belief in a personal God that the
abolition of the oath aims its deadliest blow.
Labouchere's motion —a perennial motioD, by
the way—directs a ffow at an institution logically
built upon the idea of a personal God. Tbe
junior member for Northampton trots it out
every year, and every time it is discussed
in the Commons the influence of the hereditary
ruler is itiared by such discussion. Royalty,
follows in the wake of aristocracy. They are but
two forms of one essence, and right atop comes
fche news from Europe of “A Royal Romance " in
which a modern Gautama renounces the titles of
Royal Highness and Duke of Gotland, a yearly
allowance granted by the Swedish Diet and his
Stockholm palace, all for a girl not of the blood-
r oyal. Papers tremble over the fact that the
Crown Princess of Sweden—whose future sister-
in-law the poor Miss Munch is to be is a
daughter of the Grand Duke of Baden, and a
granddaughter of the late Emperor William !
They neglect to state that Prince Oscar is the
descendant of an Inn keeper. That his grand-
father was a soldier of fortunp, who " struck it
rich" in the train of the brigand Napoleon.
Who is Oscar Bernadotte ? The de;c3ndanb of
a French edition of Crown-and-Aachor Roberts
four times removed. Yet Bernadotte, who gave
the family its fhst albeit the son of an inn-
keeper. was one ef the manliest kings of Europe
at his time, and one of its beet mer. But this
knocks a hole in tbe theory cf right divine with a'
vengeance. Tilings go along with a xueb. A few
years ago people were electrified at the marriage
of a princess of the blood-royal— Louise —with a
descendant of Mac lan Mohr. Nowadays, a
princess of the blood royal marries the grand-
son of a ticket-taker at the pay-hole
of a German-Jew-conducted variety show. A
queen’s or a king’s breath can make the blood
good, however, and some day when Batten-
berg’s grandson marries Miss Smith— provided
the Battenberg strain lasts until the third
generation and that medern notions of royalty
also last so long- -papers will trumpet forth
another “Royal Romance" and catalogue the
list of privileges given up by Miss Smith’s suiter :
As, for instance, Prince B atten berg’s titles of
“Royal Highness” and “Duke of Australia,"
the yearly allowance granted by the Imperial
Parliament of Great Britain and the Federated
Colonies, and his palaoesof Osborne, Buckingham,
Potts Point and Toorak.
+
Tlie Republic or the Leper.
The time is evidently c’ose at hand when Aus-
tralia must choose between Independence and
Infection - between the Australian Republio and
the Chinese leper. The spirit of Hung Fat is
aroused, and recognisirg the fact that Australia
is not a nation but a mere political anomaly a
dependency which plays at freedom, but which is
governed by England to suit Ecgland’s cr nvenl
ence, he carries his complaint to the throne, and
demands in delicately rounded periods, but still
with unmlstakeable firmness, that England sha'l
clear the way for Ihe Chinese in the Pacific. For
many centuries, as Hung Fat points out in hia gro-
tesque characters, China held herself apart from
the world and took no stock in the outer bar-
barians, but ultimately England came along with
a bayonet, and a keg of opium, and a Bible, and
other symbols of her holin ss and greatness, and
forced upon China a commercial treaty by which
Englishmen were permitted to trade and reside in
the Chinese Empire while Hung Fat, whe, till
then, had asked for nothing better than to
be left in peece with his dragon and
his Joss, received a similar privilege through-
out the territories ruled by Viotoria. But
England itself is far away, and the Chinaman has
no desire to go there, while Australia, which the
leper seeks to exploit, has put a poll-tax upon the
flowery man of spots, and even threatens to expel
him altogether, contrary to the custom of nations
and the obligations of international law. There-
fore Hung Fat gives notioe that this state cf
things must cease. England so d him the right to
raid Australia and New Zealand in exohange for
the privilege of flooding all China with opium,
strong drink, and degradation. England gave
him tha privilege of cairyirg leprosy and small-
pox and kitten-soup throughout these co oait 8
that she might have Freetrade iu cutlery and
shoddy at Shanghai and Canton. England autho-
rised Hung to turn Australia into a yellow hell
upon earth at Australia's own expense, and gave
him due title to starve ths white workman, and
degrade his existence, and beguile his daughters
into dens of infamy, and to corrupt his race until
the New World is filled with a mongrel nation,
half white and half yellow, a grotesque mixture
of the rival images of Joss and God. and Hung
rises to point out that England must keep her word.
Australia, he holds, has no right to protest since
China has paid to England the price of Australia's
degradation, and while Australia allows herself to
be ruled by England and to bebiund by fore’gn
treaties which England concluded solely in ter
own interests and on her own responsibility.
Hung Fat has logic on his fide. Possibly, how-
ever. the suave Mongol'an is i ot yet ready to con-
tf st the point. If te is not, he will wait and
nurse his wrath until his opportunity comes ; if
he ip. then the expulsion cf the Chinese from Aus-
tralia will be the signal for retaliation ; the cry
will go out through tha Celestial Empire that the
Englishman must go. and the shoddy traders who
rule Britain will rise to demand that Australia
shall be coerced into respecting the treaties
of the grand old motherland whose profits
are in danger. The crisis may be postponed, but
it is hardly possible that it can be averted. The
tearing up of tte parchment obligation which
promises to the Chinese free acc ES to every part
cf the British Empire wculd hit) the nation cf
shopkeepers on their tenderest point-. When
Britain is kicked in the bank account the question
of Chinese invasion will come up for immediate
settlement, and then Australia will have to choose
between England and her leprous Freetrade ally
on the one hand and independence on the other.
Perhaps, on the whole, it might be as well if she
chose in advance. England is pledged to Hung
Fat, and she has pledged Australia to Hung
Fat also. The two have become interwoven by
elaborate treaties established in the interests of
Freetrade until, at last, it becomes difficult to teU
where Ergland ends and Hung Fat begins. And
Australia could very well dispense with them
both,
♦
Rhccii Victoria and General Gordon.
The gracious figurehead of our glorious Britifh
Empire has been turning her dear, old-womanly
sympathy to political account. With her stream
ing eyes steadily fixed cn therext general elec-
tion, our gracious Queen wrote a letter to General
Gordon’s sister, in which s v e begged to deplore
ihe stain left on England by that singular war-
riors cruel fate. So says the cable. Nobody will
need to be reminded that her Graoions’e bete noir
—Gladstone —was at the head of the Ministry
which despatched Gordon to Egypt wi h certain
instructions, which instructions he paid little or
no attention to Had Salisbury been in power
at that particular crisis of the miserable Soudan
muddK and bad Gordon, fatalist and vielontry
ciank, cho en to be a martyr under Tory rule,
does any sane man believe that his sorrowing
Sovereign would “ deplore the stain left on Eng
land ?" No. But as the Grand Old Man was in
question, the Queen’s motherly heart told her that
now was an opportunity to have a shy
at him. This letter, even if dictated by
none but the most disinterested motivep, would
be merely an old lady’s expression of opinion,
and not a valuable opinion at that. It has been
known for a long time that Gordon was an im-
practicable eccentric in his last Soudan expedi-
tion, actually (not figuratively) wasting his
military genius and indomitable energy on tbe
desert air. Sent out as a diplomatist he carefully
placed himself and his adherents in unntceseary
peril, and then clamoured for a Britieh army to
come to their relief. Prompt action at home
would have saved Gordon, for the time being at
any rate ; while, on the other hand, he never
should have needed to be rescued The very story
of his death which it spired the Queen’s letter,
shows the inconsistency of Gordon's character,
for we are told that he, who thought nothing of
cutting downhelple?B Arabs with his own sword,
sat quietly in a chair until a sheik decapitated
him. This same Gordon has been a wholesale
flogger and killer of Soudanese in his time, and
yet, forsooth ! he forbade his men to shoot down
the sheik and aiked that their lives might
be spared on that account. It was the
last splendid whim of a noble crank who had ad-
mitted years before that only conscience prevented
him from takiig hfs life and hastening to the
Heaven of his dreams. But so gentle and lovable
a creature was Gordon in his private capacity
that the Gladstone Ministry forbore from
“rounding ”on him in thfir own defence. After
he bad started for the Soudan, they heard how
he devoted bis last Sunday mornirg in London to
a crazy consumption of sacramental bread and
wire at some drzen cr more different churches, it
being parti of his singular faith that the body and
blood of Christ was thereby absorbed into the
system to the ousdng of original sin. This and
other proofs of his envoy's mind-disorder Glad-
stone charitably withheld from the country,
while the Tories raved at him as a “murderer. 1
Bah! Any s’aln that Gordon's blood left on
England has been obliterated by that greater
stain cf Arab gore, which no Queen’d tears shall
ever wash away.
Paikcs upon Etiquette.
The Parkes Government has risen in a burst of
limitless wrath to suppress Parliamentary riot,
and to keep up the moral standard of the New
South Wales Assembly. The ceaseless disorder
in the representative C'aambsr has baen borne
long and patiently by an uncomp’ainiDg Cabinet,
but at last a t : me has come when even this
gathering of suave apostles feel it incumbent upon
them to do something for the houou' of their
oountry, and. in sorrow rather (hhu in anger, tfcey
have resolved to suppress all future ungent'e-
manly demonstrations, and to institute measures
of reform which will effectually prevent the use
of expressions that a Chesterfield could pcs.
sibly object tc. In the words of a Freetrade daily
which lives upon the free postage and free trains
which were granted by Parkes at the expense of
the nation:
giVested with the responsibility of carrying on public busi-
ness the Government have been auietly watching the tactics
of a few of the principal obstructionists With a view to
future action in the direction of reform a gentleman who
holds po such decided pclitical opinions as wculd render
him a partial critic has taken a note of the various dis
orderly scenes that have occurred in the. House, ... It
has teen found that since the preieat session commenced no
less than 60 such disorderly scenes have occurred. On only
three occasions was a Government supporter concerned to
tte exttnt that he could be held responsible for the origin of
the outbreak. In the other 57 cases a section of the Opposi
tion is said to be directly responsible, one member offending
no less than 21 times and another 13 or 14 times. The fre-
quency of this disorder has at length, it i 3 said, forced the
Government to take acti :n. The Premier him3eif has been
at all times strongly adverse to the restriction of the libertiss
of private members, and has only consented t> move when
it became apparent that the curtailment of individual rights
was essential to the preservation cf the rights of the whole
body.
The name of the independent critic who is pre-
pared to prove that the Opposition are almost
solely responsible for the riots of the dssemb’yis
discreetly smolhered in oblivion. Probably it is
Minister Abigail. A few months ago Parkes
put that very much per Bhent Individual on to a
committee to enquire into his (Parkes ) con-
duct in i'c the Circular Quay job, and having
unblushiogJy stuffed the board of inquiry with a
three-fourths majority of Lis own staunch adhe-
rents, and even then secured nothing better than
a reluctant verdict to the effect that he was this
time not a kna e bn: only a fool, he now olaitrs
to have been triumphantly acquitted by “a com-
mittee of his entmles.” Abigail thus figures in-
differently as Parkes’s colleague, his uncle and
hie “ enemy," and there is no reason why he should
not pose as his independent critic also. Bat this
is merely a side Issue. The main point is that
Parkes has sent to Erg'and for a copy of the
Home of Commons cluturc rules—the ru’es that
were framed for the express purpose of throwing
the Irish members out if they could not be silenced,
and while they are coming he is “quietly" wa’ching
events. That is to say, he is stumping the country,
denouncingall who dif agree with him as liars, vil-
-1 jinp, thieves, and the like, howling out curses, and
shrieking forth that people who oppose his grovel
and his Bead House ought to be hanged. In the
intervals of these frenzied outbursts of rowdy
profanity Parkes fixes up rules for enforcing
gentlemanly behaviour in the Assembly, and when
he isn’t acticg the part of a deranged larrikin, he
keeps his eye on points of etiquette and Christi-
anity, and civilisation generally Not many
months ago Parkes himself was in opposition,
and then be shook his clammy fist in the then
Pr mier’s face during a debate, and howled out,
“Who the devil are you?’ fcddmg, it has bee j
pub iely alleged, a loatheoms expression—.ne
sort of express on for us ng which ordinary
citizens may be flogg d under the criminal
code of New South Wales, but t'mes have
charged since then; the old min now rans
a government of pol'tical prostitutes, and,
steep; d in tha holy intellectual calm wb cb,
in anotbir mar., would be classed ai i aging
frenz-, he proposes to iiaugorate an ira
of refoim. He will he assisted in tMs arduous
duty by his colleague Garrett, whom
he himself denounced not so very long ago
as bearing on his forehead the “red-hot burn-
ing brand of shame," and as unfib to associate
with Parkes— and by Salomons who sat in
judgment on Garrett and denounced him as a
corrupt man. and by Uncle Abigail, whose cul-
ture is that of the shoe-factory and the pawnshop,
and by Roberts, the affluent gentleman frcin
the gin-mill, and amoig them all a great re-
vival of politeness vsill eventuate, and no one
will be allowed to answer back when Pahkes
curses him. As for the old man himself, the rules
for the suppression of disorder do not apply to
biro. All his life long he has alternately abused
everybody, blasphemed at everybody, and bor-
rowed money from everybody, and then when he
has been asked to square up he has rounded on
his obliging creditors and abused them again, and
followed them over the country to heap insult
upon them. He would wither away beneath the
fetters of ordinary courtesy and ordinary gram-
mar, and when he introduces the new regulations
for the promotion of common civility he will prob-
ably ask to see the blanked liar who wants to op-
pose them. And, meanwhile, he is “quietly"
waiting for some new and awful Billingsgate ta
turn up.
«
The Troubles of a “Bank."
A WEEK or two ago the Honorable Francis
Abigail s “ bank ” ran against a snag, and had its
feelings trodden on. Ihe institution over which '
Abigail Minister of Mines in the Parkes Go-
vernment, Christian, patriot, boss-usurer, and -
exponent of political and personal honesty—pre
sides was virtually charged with having cleaned
out the property of an unfortunate client
under a bill-of-sale which had been altered
and manipulated after signature so as to
cover goods which were not in the original con-
tract. and the uncertificated insolvent whom
Messrs. Abigail, Hurley, and Co. had hired to
conduct their financial operations shuffled and
equivocated in his efforts to explain away
these damning accusations, and ate his
own words and went back on bis own
handwriting, and made a pitiable spectacle
of himself and his employers. Judge Stephen
summed up the case by stating that the
alternative lay between gross perjury on the part
of the plaintiff, Pombart, or gross swindling on
the part of the “ leaving-shop " presided over by
Abigail, Hurley, and Co., the said swindling
being carried on for the -financial benefit of
Abigail, Hurley, and Co., and perpetrated by
the man whom Abigail, Hurley, and Co. had
hired to conduct their more than Semitically
usurious business, and to trade on the poverty
and hunger of those whom misfortune might
drive to the door of their gilded fly-trap—
a fly-trap, we may remark, “incorporated
by Act of Council.” The jury accepted
the latter alternative, and, by their ver-
dict, Uncle Abigail and his pais were virtually
declared to be men who profited by frauds of the
vilest description perpetrated by the uncertificated
insolvent who acted as their deputy. a brief
notice in a daily paper afterwards announced that
the unhappy manager was no longer connected
with the institution, but if the two political
uncles of New South Wales wish to clear their
characters and prevent their very names becoming
a disgrace to an already degraded Legislature
they must do something more than merely get rid
of the conductor of their fly-blown institution
after he has been found out. According to Pom-
kart's story, which a jury of Abigails
countrymen, who had heard the evidence, chose
to accept as sufficient, he was sold up for a
liability which was partly real, partly sham, and
partly exorbitant interest; bis furniture, which
lie alleged was not covered by the mortgage, was
seized to the last stici and sold for a song : and
his house was cleared out, even his dead wife’s
picture being carried away with the rest, and he
and his children were left to sleep on the bare
floor in an empty building l . Then the ex-solicitor
of the company went back on it and declared that
his name had been inserted on the back of the
bill-of-salc without his authority, that he had
never prepared the document or been connected
with it in any way, and that he knew nothing
about it until it was handed to him in
the witness-box. This alone almost amounted
to a charge of forgery, complicated by
false pretences, and at this stage the
question naturady arises, whether the front
of the paper was in any way more reliable
than the back. The hinder part of the document
which Abigail’s bank had found so profitable
having been so strangely manipulated what was
the other side word) ? The manager himself, being
driven intoacorner, admitted that the t wo guineas
cha ged to the victim of a bigailian fimnee for
legal expenses was one of those financial myths
of which the Hebrew is so fond, and that the
amount, instead of being paid to the invisible legal
adviser, was reverently added to the takings of
the pawnshop : and despite the virtuous outburst
of indignation which led the alleged “ Bank,’ after
these disclosures, to ihake off the servant whose
clumsiness had led to so many awkward facts
becoming public property, no one has vet
risen to deny that had it not been exposed in
open Court, the “ bank.” whereof Messrs.
Abigail and Ht rlev, statesmen and guar-
dians of the public morals, are directors,
would have taken the proceeds and sa ! d
nothing. As usual, every possible effort lias been
made by the Frectradc Press to smother the
disgrace of these proceedings. The Sjdney
dailies wlficli publish long reports with four cro s-
headings when a Protectionist member gets into
a difficulty with the law, disposed of the case in
a few lines and omitted nil the ugly deta Is of the
evidence and the sc-ath ng comments of the indig-
nant Judge, and the papers which pin their fate
to Parkes’ fax o; s die vum that honour docs not con-
sist in paying Parkes' creditor 20s. in .he £ wee
conspicuously silent about the modes ado-ted by
Parkes’ suppo.tcrs to wring 20s. in the £, with
compound interest aided, rom those who had the
misfortune to owe them money on a bill-of-sale
with a n me on the back which, according to the
verdict of a jury, got there without the know-
ledge of its legal owner. Even flip moral D. T. had
fur once no moral refle :tion> to offer, and it re-
mains for the i coplc of New South
demand tint Minister of Alines Abigail, of'the
pawnshop, shall either clear lr's name by auan-
doningall comiec ion with usury or else re ic i orn
public lite for ever, and spare New South Wades
the disgrace of bemg ruled in the interests of the
old clo’ trade and'the Hebrew bill-of-sale,


“ Widespread Sympathy
“Expressions of sympathy are bang received in Berlin
from all parts of the universe.”— Sydney “ Evening News"
cablegram.
On hia bier of proud imperial abate liea a dead
emperor, the eratwhile ruler of a fractional part
of this earth’s surface—dotted so thickly with the
graves of unknown potentates, and hoary with
dynasties whose memories and whose names are
lost in the pallid mists of antiquity. Hard by, in
apartments heavy with the trappings of imperial
woe, and sombre with the funereal vestments dic-
tated by the etiquette of official grief, sits a living
emperor—in a world weary of the contentious
clash of crowns. And with this mar,
this wearer of the purple, according to the
grovellers of the press, the universe is aotually en
rapport in bitter sorrow and sympathetic condo-
lence. When Corydon complains of Amaryllis—
in the conceit of quaint old-time pastoralists—the
sun darkens, tbe birds cease singiDg, the dowers
close their petals, the trees sigh sadly, and Nature
weeps in unison with the feelings of the love-lorn
swain, But Nature is only a phase, alb sit an
. eternal one, of the earth with which we are ac-
quainted. With the Emperor of Germany, the
“ Universe” is chief mourner for the late tyrant
of Teutondom. The late William was the ruler
of Germany ; Germany is a little bit of the little
earth. Civilisations have ebbed and lapsed upon
that tiny planet. Three cities o’ertop each other
in the strata of a hill near Zanzibar. The
savage fastnesses in the interior of continents
are covered with the marble language of the past,
language which no man can deoipher but eloquent
in their frozen silence of the multitudinous life of
bygone cycles. Tombs and temples are scattered
over the surface of the world. Proud imperial
palaces, with their vaulted solitudes thickly
scribed with the hieroglyphs of an unknown
tongue, rear their time-scarred walls in the desert,
and the banqueting hall of a monarch becomes
the sculptured lair of beasts of prey. No man
knows the antiquity of the earth. The life of
the individual of to-day is the life of the
parasite of a molecule. Of the millions upon
millions of the mighty dead ; of the many
millions of the swiftly-passing present, of the
great unnumbered myriads of the dawning
future what space upon the point of a needle
would be occupied by a single human soul ? And
as man’s life is to the total life of the earth, so is
the earth, and less, in relation to the universe.
Miles upon billions of leagues of miles across the
starry gulfs of spaoe—zsons of eternity, if time
were space; away to the outermost rim of that
gauzy mist of powdered diamonds on the veil of
Night; out to the very of the Milky
Way, where a billion constellations look
like a little silver dust, a puff of breath
on the window-pane of the sky, the celestial
dwellers of the heavens beamed down sympathy
with the lone Teuton monarch, and wept with
him for the memory of his father. From the
nearest of the stars known as fixed—and they are
so distant that though they revolve in their
courses they are fixed in relation to the earth—
from Sirius, where a copy of the Evening News,
travelling at the express rate of a cannon-ball,
would be as old as the history of pre-Adamite
man and reduced to powder with age before the
completion of a fraction of its journey, the ethe
real beings put on celestial crape for William
What sort of a soul has this Alfred Bennett,
that he pictures the Universe as no larger
than a prize piggery ? Sate he among his fam’shing
staff, or enc’rcled by the decorated porkers when
that momentous cable came to hand, pregnant
with the distant grief of the spheres, and instinct
with the surging sorrow of the Universe ? Yet
this is the fruit of allowing the rustic to lave his
hand in the printer’s ink-bsrrel, when Nature in-
tended it for stirring the pabulum of the unassum
ing giunter as he wallows in the trough of aprizs
milk-and-pollard diet at Alfred Bennett’s
Camden farm !
4 /
Charily Or no Charity.
Dear Bulletin,— l see in The Bulletin of Feb.
11th a very pathetic appeal from a gentle-
man in England to the inhabitants of the Aus-
tralias for help for the starving, workless toilers
of England. Now, s’r, I have to inform your cor-
respondent that I consider myself a true philan-
thropist, and that if one penny piece would save
all those men from starvation, I would not give
that penny, because their calamity is one that
they have brought upon themselves—their miser-
able condition could very easily be remedied by
turning every foreigner out of England. If the
English Government would do this, they would
do the wisest thing that ever they did
since Britain became a nation. Then you would
hear no more of that distress of the British work-
ing classes. But if a man takes the bread out of
his own mouth, and leaves his wife and family to
starve, what pity is there for him? How is
ever the amelioration of the working classes to
take plac 3 if, as soon as a thousand Englishmen
emigrate from the country, a thousand foreigners
take their place ? The imbecility of cosmopoli-
tanism has taken hold of the English mind. True
philanthropy begins at home. If nations, like
individuals, will do everything contrary to com-
mon sense and reason, they must be prepared to
accept the consequences. Individuals frequently
engender diseases that exclude them from hospi-
tals and infirmaries simply because these diseases
could have been easily avoided, and they have
gone into their graves with more scorn than pity
depicted in the faces of the mourners. As with
the individual, so with the nation ; from acts of
folly its affairs become more and more compli-
cated until confusion, doubly confounded,
ends its councils and overwhelms it in ruin.
And this is inevitable until such time as a nation
acts consistently with reason according to the
laws of Nature. Lst England expal foreigners
until the distress of her own people is relieved. It
is easy enough to invite them back when the
working man has more than he can do.—-Yours,
&<?,,■ John Shepherd the Englishman, Queen-
ton, Charters Towers, North Queensland, Feb-
ruary 24.
♦
For llie Sake of the Savage.
The Sydney D.T., which was born in a homily
and cradled in a sermon, arises to explain how
very unnecessarily cruel the wicked G irmans are
to the poor, inoffensive Samoan natives, who
never did them any harm:—
Numerically, tha English-speaking residents of Samoa
are stronger than the Germans, and they have been really
the pioneers of settlement and the mainstay of government
there. Yet, notwithstanding this, we have had the spectacle
during the past few months of a German raid on the native
Government, followed by the deportation of the king and
the setting up of a new ruler to be a puppet in the hands of a
German trading company.
Then the D.T. ceases its little wail over the for-
tunes of the Begums and Nizams of Pamoa, to
bring in, as a sort of refrain, the motif of its psean
against unscrupulous Teutondom
English interests were contemptuously ignored and the
native races have be3n practically laid under tribute to keep
in power a German vassal
But the spirit of justice and philanthropy, pity
and magnanimity, inspires the writer’s bardic
soul, and he soars iuto a wild chant anent the
wrongs inflicted by this commercial German
sausage of a trading-firm on the susceptible and
impressionable dusky children of nature. Ruin
seize thee, ruthless masticator of the sauer-kraut
of cold inflexibility :
Only last November a levy was made upon the natives for
the payment of a tax amounting to something like 20.003
dollars. Now we learn that another levy is to be made, this
time for a total of 47,000 dollars. This simply means that
the impoverished native land-owners will be driven to seek
the aid of the German firm by mortgaging their lands in
order to pay the tax. By-and-bye another tax will be levied,
and then will come the day for the foreclosure of the
mortgages and further tracts of rich country will pass into
the hands of this great ootopus-like German trading firm.
This is a cold, cheerless world; yet, after all,
life oan be endured patiently enough when one
reads suoh fine outbursts against tyranny and un-
bridled lioenee. But iust here, unfortunately, the
moral editor was called away to run over the
fashion items, and a scribe, whose sordid soul had
iust been gloating over a rise in hides and a fluc-
tuation in the tallow market, seized a common-
place quill, and took up the music, in the same
article, in quite another key :
Nobody can blame the Germans for thus acquiring the con-
trol of this rich island territory, but what is to be said of the
supineness of the British Government which thus allows this
important island to pass into the control of a foreign Power
in deliberate, if not direct, contravention of an international
treaty ?
So it ultimately transpires that the only injustice
involved is in the nationality of the robber ! Had
he been an English brigand instead of a German
pirate, all would have gone well, and the lion of
British interests would have lain down with the
lamb of sacrifice, and clasped the claw of the eagle
of spoliation. But still all is not lest:
Fortunately, there is some prospect of the United States
Government taking steps to protect the interests of its citi-
zens in Samoa, and pcssibly English interests may be thus
indirectly conserved.
And this is commercial morality ! After this we
piously yield ourself up to the tender mercies of
Coffee Calcali, and regard Tippoo Sahib as a
philanthropist of the first water. And yet we
cannot believe that Mr. Pulsford, the commer-
cial editor, read a proof of the above item. His
Freetrade principles would never havs allowed
him to pass it, More than evar are we beginning
bo understand how Abigail is quoted as a Chris-
tian and a boss usurer, and what a lot of mercy
and human brotherhoed there is in 200 per shent
on a blood-sweating loan to a necessitous work-
man.
+
Ireland’s Friends and SI. Patrick’s Hay.
At the St. Patrick’s banquet in Sydney, laEt
week, the commonplaoe wa3 unrelieved by a
single memorable utterance or a solitary sentence
above the stereotyped Hibernichms which one
ever expects as the unvarying concomitant of the
17 th Maroh. The catering was poor, the speeches
were poorer still, The Mayor of Sydney took the
chair, Sir John Robertson sat not far from
his right hand, and hard by sat the ‘ 1 Castle ’’ Car-
dinal. Parkhs was not there. He sent an
apology. Hs did not, he said, appreciate the
need of celebratiog St. Patrick’s Day in Australia
at all. Last 12th July—or the 12bh July pre-
viously—he attended the meeting celebrating St.
Boyne. One cannot serve G;een and Orange.
Francis Habigle, in acknowledging receipt of a
tiokeb sent him, wrote: “ I Beg to respectfully
Decline this invitatin.” The toasts were maun-
dered through in a very ragged fashion. Mr. J.
P. Garvan gave ‘ : The Day we Celebrate,” and
ploughed laboriously through the first verses of a
number of poems familiar to the children who use
the Irish National School-readers. He had
nothing new to say, and bis speech slid into the
usual old bombast about all the great men Of
every country under heaven being either
Irish immigrants or the sons of Irish
Immigrants. Next Mr. F. B. Freehill took
up the weary tale and endeavoured
to discourse on “ Ireland a Nation," by doing a
huge mental salaam to the “ Empire,” and dilating
upon all the British generals who were Irish, and
the American generals wbo were Irish, and all the
nondescript people who ever did anything who
were Irish, forgetting, although Wolseley and
Roberts, like Wellington, may have hailed from
Erin, that neither is of Milesian blood, and that
each belongs to that class, long hated in Ireland,
to whioh Dean Swift, gave the name of the “ Irish
Englishry.” The lately-appointed Upper House
member “Dlok” O’Connor, a N.S W. native,
gave the “ Land we live in," and sacrificed largely
to the spirit of flummery and squirm. He said
that
Within the memory of all New South Wales had at one
bound jumped from the position of being a mere colony to
that of being a national portion of the British Empire, and
that was due to the genius and the courage of one of Irish
birth and Irish parentage who happened to be at the helm
of state when the S)udin contingent was sent to Africa
Those were men and moments that turned the destiny of
nations.
This Is the sort of drivel that calls upon the work
for sympathy. These worshippers at the shrine
of St. Jingo are the Irishmen who claim Wolfe
Tone and Robert Emmett for countrymen
When the national cause of Ireland—a cause, be
it said, by no means incompatible with the in
tegrity of a properly-governed British common
wealth —is in some eaoterlo manner connected
with the Imperialistic twaddle ladled out by the
sai-disant friends of a movement to which certain
individuals conspicuous among them never give
their open support unless it is “coming,” it is
about time to hide behind the curtain.
♦
The fast increasing volume of German trade is
beginning to create something approaching a
panic in England. Between the years 1875 85 the
German commeroe with Spain increased 1538 per
cent; with Portugal 218 per cent; Roumania, 200
per cent; Canada, 250 per cent; Cape Colony,
800 per cent; British India, 360 per cent; and
Australia, 1250 per cent. In the same period the
British commerce with Spain fell off 38 per cent;
with Portugal, 19 per cent; with Roumania, 21
per cent ; Canada, 20 per cent; Cape Colony, 5
percent; Australia, 1 per cent. More than half
the German increase is gained in dealings with
British colonies, and in addition to securing the
commerce of these lands the Fatherland is begin-
ning to compete in the matter of passenger-traffn
also. Only a few days ago a ‘ ‘ Domainer ” dropped
in at The Bulletin office in search of employ-
ment. He had been in Australia only a few
weeks, he explained, and had come out from
Southampton by a German steamer at a cost of
£i2 10s. only ! For this sum he had, he said, re-
ceived “flrst-clas3” diet, quite as good as on
any of the British lines where the charges are
some 30 per cent higher, and the vessel was
crowded with passengers. It is the old story of
Freetrade and free competition—the great
doctrine of commercial evolution—the survival of
the cheapest.
♦
Said Premier Parkes, the other day
Those people, despite their sufferings, never forgot their
s -If-respect and obedience to the law; and this was the spirit
observable in the British working-man—the true type of the
British working-man all over the world.
Parkes, who was himself a j ourneyman button-
maker who pulled his forelock to the squire, here
gives a faithful picture of what the labourer
would be if he (Parkes) had the making of him.
The sternach of the Parkes made working-man
would be permanently out of order because Its
owner considered his victuals too good for it. He
would always approach a G.C.M.G. with a mental
supplication to be kicked. The workman, accord-
ing to Parkes, G.C.M.G., may perish, but he
must not complain. Why twaddle about self-
respect and obedience to law in face of the fact
that the only value, the only thing worthy cf
respect in any law, the only thing which sanctides
any law, is its adaptability to the needs of the
people who make it ? Parkes is trying to make
out that law, as law, is above its origin. He
wishes us to believe that it oontains some divine
principle which entitles it to be unquestioningly
bowed to. No stream ever flows higher than its
source.
Dr. Schwarzbach, of Sydney, who Is
socially most popular, was lasb weak, prior to his
departure for Europe by the Zaalandia, presented
by about fifty ladles with a gold chronograph and
chain. It is needless to that the doctor is a
bachelor. And on Saturday night last, Dr. Riede-
waldt, who during his ten years’ practice in S;d-
ney has earned the esteem of his fellows, and who
is now returning to his native land to spend the
remainder of his days, was entertained at dinner
at Paris House by his Danish compatriots. There
was no nonsense about the dinner given to Da
Rledewaldt —It lasted seven solid hours.
Here is an item of Australian history
dating from b afore the era of legalised free-selec-
tion-before-survey. Major-General Sr Thomas
Brisbane surrendered the government of NS.W.
on Ist December, 1825, and 18 days afterwards
General Ralph Darling of pious memory ociup'ed
the color isi throne as Governor over some 35,000
people, nearly cns-half of whom were transported
convlc's. In the interval which elapsed between
the departure of one set of gubernatorial officials
and the arrival of the next 1 , the Cha’r of State
was temporarily filled by Colonel Stewart of the
3rd Rsgiment—Boflft—aid the Colonel being a
Scotchman determined to make hay while the sun
shone. He went out We3t on a prospecting
tour and perched himsfff upon the point of a
mountain spur overlooking the noble Macquarie
and the vast expanse of the Bathurst plains
This spur, which is now known as Mount Pleas-
ant, overlooks the splendid mansion of the
Stewarts, and one of the loveliest of Australian
landscapes. Colonel Stewarb was, for the time,
monarch of all he surveyed—his right there was
none to dispute. So he allotted to himself the
bread lands beneath and round abou”, as far as
his eye could reach. Those who know the
country will estimate its beauty and its value
correctly. He reburned to head-quarters with the
consciousness of having done his duty to him
self, if nob to his country and his King.
When the lawful occupant of the Colonial throne,
and the duly authorised representative of Eng-
land’s Majesty arrived and heard of this gigantic
attempt at free-selection, he laid a ruthless hand
upon the proposed appropriation, and cancelled
the “grant," giving, however, to the military
selector, as a salve, a “grant” of 15,000 aores of
magnificent country, with a bold frontaga to the
Macquarie River, and running back a distance of
nine miles. This magnificent property is still
held intact by the colonel’s son, a 3 the old man so
fixed it that it oannot be broken up and sold
There is a legend to the effeob that the Acting’-
Governor, in granting the land to the colonel
made a bargain (he, as the representative of the
Sovereign, with himself, and the colonel and
selector; that he was to hold the lands as
long as he occupied them, and to keep this
bargain he determined to be burled upon
the property, and had the immense vault
excavated in which his remains are now deposited
and above which has bean erected a splendid
obelisk, whereon are detailed the virtues of the
defunct. It took 21 bullocks to haul the ooffla
and its contents up the steep point to the vault
the same spot where years before this gallant son
of Mars sat and devoured, with covetous eyes
the beauties of the landscape, and annexed for
himself and his descendants for ever this splendid
portion of the people’s heritage. |
ORRESPONDENCE
W, E. : The contributor who ' scarcely hope
that his screed will prove available’ has at let si some literar
judgment....P. Delane: Lots of liishmen are like you
better at making than taking jokes. Touch up anybod
else and they howl with delight.... J.H.F.: Your friend
entitled to hold his opinion. Opiaions are mostly matter!
of prejudice for which their holders are not responsible.,
T. Merton: The gist of the Circular Quay
has been entirely ignored b 7 the Sydney Pr.es. It is fimpl
this: Parkes had no business to buy privately what tt
Government could have resumed in accordance with th
provisions of an Act passed for the purpose of preventin
any politician doing that which Parkes has done on mor
than one suspicious occasion. Instead of resuming the lane
required for certain purposes by the G svernment and sul
mitting th i question to public arbitration, Parke
made a private land-jobbing arrangement with a com
mission agent. There was a crooked way of doin
business, and being Parkes he followed it Sul
scriber (Barilla) : Thanks for aboriginal saesiety item...
D.WAV. (Hunter's Hill): We like poetry, but then in th
fourth verse you revert to prose... .D.A.C.: Much obliged
W.J. (Crow’s Nest): ‘A Brief Courtship’ is good and wil
appear shortly —Prof. Smith: You moy b 3 a clever quack
doctor, but you can t spell —A. Morphan: It no doub
looked ve ry fumy.. ..A. A. : British and Foreign Bible
Society’s Maori converts have been distinguished from th
unconverted heathen as rogues, thieves, and liars. We
claim to know something about the ‘converted’ modern
Maori. ...W.E.J.: In the Queensland candidates forth
general election, M Ilwraithian pr Griffi hian, there's
proportion of at least four Protectionists to one Freetrader
How do you account for that?.... A. W Waterson: You
say a big land-tax is the first desideratum. No doubt, but i
it more likely to come in a Freetrade than in a Protectionis’
country? Is the land of ‘Freetradi’ England taxed?...
V. J. 1),: \\hy do you send us such verses as these:—
To the Rev. Mr. Kildahl,
O legend grim!
O i ame of fear
Kildahl at home—
Kildahl out here
This kind of thing is most insulting and irrev .-rent,... C. E H
(StoDy Creek): Isn't it slightly incoherent ?.. .WAV. 8.: You
write as if consumers and manufacturers were men of differ-
ent blood and absolutely hostile interests, and bound to
gether by no.common tie whatever....lx'ion: If you have to
stand in a’bus you should not pay. ’Buses are licensed to
carry a certain number. By standing you permit the 'bus
ompany to profit at your own individual expense. There
should be a‘ No seat, no fare’’ bill aimed at the’bus and
railway authorities....RiKy (Melbourne): We have thought
quite a lot over your item, but we haven't made up our mind
yet. Oar mind is so large that it needs a lot rf making up.
....N.K,: We print your last vers?, which is I®3S common
place than the two preceding:—
Why care what my bo ly may suffer—
Oh, God ! give me physical pain,
But spare me the fearful hell-torture
Of leaving her ever again ;
For were I in Heaven without her,
It 3 best joy could never atone;
I d go down to hell with my darting,
Than live in a Heaven alone
.. Eaglehawk (Newcastle): Will read and cniider..,. Jos ph
Richardson: There are, unfortunately, und r the present
regime not one, but hundreds of such case 3 ...T J. Hobble-
white: Received—Amos: B adlaugh’s Oaths Abolition
Bill passed by 100 majority on its recent second reading in
the Commons—Austral: Rather loosely constructed, and
contains a deil mere philosophy than music... Obse ver :
Will read your lengthy lucubration on G ivernment Tanks. .
Gum Leaf (Piallaway): Taanks for letter....Anti-Cant!
Item is good, send your address. ..Marsupial Bill: Too thin,
William.... Smith and Hinsch: Received... .JHB.: By the
way, wasn’t that previous letter of yours merely an adapta-
tion from The Bulletin ?...Gjulburn Shearer: Thanks..,
Native Born (Cobar): We do not know that the editorof the
paper you mention is a Chinaman, or that any of his staff
hail from China, but there is no doubt that the lepers from
Saffronland are strongly represented in the office.... Enigma
(Charters Towers): Thanks for your capital letter.... Sidney
Simpson (Hawthorn, Vic.): Shall be glad to receive any pars,
you may from time to time send us... .Ben Demmy: Thanks
for items... John Eidy : The Regulation you mention was
strongly wanted, and it is a distinct boon to Australian-bcrn
mariners.... Teuton (Rockhampton): MTlwraith at least
represents the Australian National Party and the movement
embodied in that phrase takes, in the estimation of The
Bulletin, precedence of all others....Sazrrac: Received
... .Hue: Can’t pronounce an opinion because we don’t know
what you mean. You should always send a translation with
your verse. Have a look at yourself in print:—
Esseose of life, mighty sire of the free.
Your ofspring begon all clingi-ig to thee,
Some fteble, some stong, none absolute free,
Yet as a whole ever moveing, we see.
....HAlmor Nsssen : There is nothing wonderful in the
Melbourne Punch stating Saturday, 31st March to be the
29th. They re within two days of the correct date, and that's
something wond rful—for them S.S.: Wa have heard it
stated that Mr. Watkin put the bailiff in.. ...
t. Watt (Melb.): Many thanks,...Solomon Soppy: We
dont like mere phonetic spelling humour... .Con OBrien:
We never deal in distant libels. And its rather risky to
recommend a friend to fill the office of P.M., on the ground
that “he d be a great deal better than the scoundrel we have
got.”
Oar usual weekly Instalment of “ Botany Bay ”
is unavoidably hell over this issue.
Sidney E. News is now run exclusively
In the inter eats of Mr. Alfred Bennett’s pig-farm
at Camden and Mr. John Haynes M.P. for
Mudgee. Every second paragraph contains
John’s namf, and the print of his paw is over the
whole rag,
Says “The Vagabond,” in the Age :
For years religious cliquism in Sydney has been
almost as bad as In Montreal. Perhaps there Is
some justifioatlon as against the aggressions of
French Catholics, but none, it seems to me, in
Australia.”
Wordsworth wrote of the scientist that he
would botanise upon his mother’s grave, but the
scientist is brimful of sentiment compared with
the modern shopkeeper. The most solemn ccoa.
sioDS are nowadays seized upon to point to an
emporium, or adorn an ad. In this connection
the Sydney Morning Herald remarks :—“ Wo
learn that the Pitt-street Congregational Chapel
was draped for the Emperor William manorial
services on Sunday last by Messrs. So-and-So and
Co., of Such-and-3uch a street.” There is, how
ever, at least one thing in the history of Sydney
to match th's. Some time ago the local Evening
News, in all solemnity, published a paracrapb,
which ran:—“Messrs. Hudson Brothers deserve
every cedlt for the excellent manner in which
they have ereoted and finished the large new
gallows at Darlinghursb gaol.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— " Erminie ’• „ p. 15.
Criterion Theatre.—" Sophia"
Her Majesty's Theatre.—"ln The K*nk»”
Alhambra Music Hall— Sacred Concert
Alhambra Music Hall—Minitreliy ■
Fielding’s romance of T. Jones has
undergone a lot of editing at the hands of Robert
Buchanan, and in offering it to a discriminating
public under the name of “ Sophia," that gentle-
man does nothing to bring a blush to anybody’s
damask cheek. The boozed ancestors of the
British nation have been toned down a good deal,
and though they cuss a heap they do io in accents
comparatively soft and low. They are a shade
less horsey and a trifle less doggy than they were
in real lire, and though the Squire, on the stage,
in the person of D Roucicault, junr., claims
the right to “smell as he likes in his
own garden,” he doesn’t carry out the threat,
whereas the original Squire would have
smelt, and his beery odour would have been
the gaffer perfume of the habitable globe.
His sentimental allusions have been smothered in
places, and the dramatist mercifully makes him
choke when he shows signs of becoming immoral
in his remarks. He curses with his legs rather
than his head, and when he grows irrepressible
he is gently led away by the coat-tails, and the
low rumble of his observations dies away in dim
distance. The weakest feature in “ Tom Jones ’’
is that half a hundred dramas have already
been cadged out of the story, and conse-
quently “Sophia" seems to have been born old
and stale. Io was Fielding who first conceived
the idea of the wallowing parept who won’t let
his daughter marry the man of her choice under
penalty of being pounded with a fence-rail after
she had grown up, and other men have looked
upon the idea and borrowed it and then slid down
the tracks of literature and passed it off as their
own. - It was Fielding who first constructed the
elevated young man who lives on charity and
goes away from home on high moral groundp, and
then proves too noble in his principles to earn a
cent, and sinks till he is found washing his shirt
in a garret; and Fielding's successors have taken
the loan of the young man and made him more
elevated still, and caused him to leave home on
still higher moral grounds, and have tried to go
one better by leaving him without either a garret
or a shirt. For years and years that young
man has appealed to the h'gher instincts of a
sinking nation of lost souls, and has grown
more unable to earn his living every time, and at
last a generation that is dead to all soulful emotion
has got quite tired of the young man Blifil has
been cadged, too, and has turned up on the stage
as a book fiend, a missionary, an ancient Roman, a
whaler, and a small girl successively ; and under
all these disadvantages “ Sophia," which is a good
comedy after all, unjustly appears like a copy
of “ Our Boys," strewn with the dead leaves
of the old t quire's shabby stupidity. The com-
pany, however is as potent as an elephant, and
things go well. Mr. Titheradge is meekly comic
as Partridge, and under his fostering care that
depressed head of poultry is sublime, Mr. Cecil
Ward rather overdoes Tom Jones, but that shift-
less drinker isn’t much cf a character at the best;
a man can’t live by striking noble attitudes, any-
how. Phil, Beck looks strikingly natural as
Blifil—we will leave him to take this compliment
home at night and sort it out; and Mr. Geo. Lash
Gordon gets less appreciation than he deserves for
acting on the Square. Miss Myra Kemble and
Mrs. Robert Brough take the rest of the laurels
It is difiicult to choose between them, and no
power out of Tophet will induce us to commit
oureelres on this point. We wouldn’t do it for a
public-house.
*# # *
Every saint, like every dog, has his day,
and last Saturday being St, Patrick’s night out
the oocasion was signalised at Sydney Gaiety by
the temporary revival of the popular “Shamus
O’Brien.” The leading character was taken by
Mr. O’Dampier, and though the hero has a ten-
dency to make long Breeches in damp caves he is
a noble cavalier, who always brings down the
house as he slithers through innumerable perils.
He has many narrow escapes from Abraham’s
bosom, but he dodges the front part of the
ancient patiiarch with marked success. Mestrs.
O’Boothman, O'Baker atd O'Holloway took
their old parts, begcrra, and Mr, Terence 0 Stone-
ham helped them to do it. Mies Lily Dampier
filled the character of the heroine, and those other
eminent patriots Rooney, Casey, McCarthy, Dono-
van Bryan Flanigan, Mickay O’Neil, and O’Hau-
nahan Michael Dooley were looked after with the
same ability which characterised Biddy Murphy,
Katy O Moore, and Mrs. Shalhalla Maguire.
Dinnis Gilhcoley wasn't there, but, be jabers, he
ought to have been. Pether O'Flynn was un-
avoidably detained. So was Barney O Toole-
Faugh-a ballagh! Erin go-bragh I Likewise, caed
mille failthe!
## * *
Professor Kennedy, dealer in magic and
spells, catalepsy and raw onions always on hand,
opened his show at Sydney Opera Home on Satur-
day night, and having called up 14 volonteers he
reduced about 8 of them to a state of cryirg idiocy
and made them go on puffectly bawful in the pre-
sence of a large audience and a committee of two.
(The proceecirgs were eminently satisfactory in
many respects, but not even the Moral Law and
the Ten Commandments, with the Lost Tribes of
Usrael thrown in, will prevent us rising to
state that we asked 11 different open-mouthed
-citizens if they could tell us the names
of the committee, and not one of them had
ever seen that enlightened body before. Further-
tmore, it would be more satisfactory to the full-
grown taxpayers of New South Wales if there was
a fresh crowd of subjects every night, so tbat, sup-
posing a man threw a meat axe on the 6tage on
six successive evening?, he might not run the risk
of hitting the same loti six times over. In offering
these two terse observations we have no intention
of disparaging the Professor's skill. We candidly
admit that we have tiled mesmerism our-
selves in the seclusion of private life, and
just as a cirole of admiring relations were losing
their heads with admiration our cataleptic subject
came out of his sense of rigidity to remark that
he would see us shot into eternal darkness if he
would stand this for ss. The Opera House sorcerer
has not been brought up short in this fashion as
■yet which says a lot for the genuirenes3 of his
show, and even if the unhappy incident which
broke up our mesmeric career should be repeated
in his case he may possibly be ab’e to explain it
away. We tried to smooth things over on the
theory that the nervous system had been suddenly
relaxed owing to the .eflex action of the moon on
the liver having caused the skeleton to rebound
thereby causing temporary derangement of the
’ vital crust, but the audience cut us short and left.
## # #
“ Erminie ” keeps up a tolerably healthy
"aspect at Sydney Royal, and at Her Majesty s
“-In the Rinks" is at last winding up its
long career. Coogee Aquarium has also
started a theatrical programme of a chaste
character, and the skating rink and swimming
bath are a great attraction to clergymen, ladies,
Chinamen and others. The City Aquarium (B?.-
fchurst street, Sydnej) is to open on Saturday. The
Temperance Hall at Sb. Peter's has been turned
into a skating rink. So has the Petersham
Arcade. Several other rinks are talked of.
Almost every other available spot on the face of
the earth is now being rinked on more or less, and
almost every human being is rinking.
#* # *
Sam Keenan has blown a new sketch out
of himself, and Sydney Academy is filled with
people who want to make out what it is about
None of them have succeeded yet. There is a
nigger in naval costume hiding in a cask, another
in Highland garb concealed beneath a heap of
straw, a black parson stowed away in a box, a
Chinaman hawking vegetables, three coloured
policemen, and six people falling cut of a burning
building. Nobody says anything, but the show
is supposed to be symbolical of some great moral
truth. Our own opin’on is that it refers to the
regeneration of man, and that the Africans who
drop out of the top window are supposed to be
falling from grace, but we are not certain on this
point Perhaps it has something to do with the
silver boom.
*% # #
Miss Blanche Lewis writes to a Melbourne
paper, “emphatically denying’’ the report that
she is about to be married to Mr. Grattan Riggs,
and we rise in a spirit of brotherly remonstrance
to ask her why is this ? Kven if she isn t going to
be married to Mr. Riggs why should she be so
needlessly emphatic about it, and for that matter
why shouldn’t she marry Mr.
Riggs? If we were in her
place we would do it. We
ask Miss Lewis in a gentle-
manly and affectionate spirit
if there is anywhere a better-
heartedold warrior than Grat-
tan, or a man who would
better fill the bill as a luvin’
husband ? We urge her to con-
sider the noble aspect which so
eminently fltshimtobe a thing
of beauty and a joy for ever. We draw her atten-
tion to his ponderous intellect and his stupendous
grasp of facts, and we point out that Grattan
Riggs not only knows everything that has ever
happened, but a lot of things that never happened
at all, and never will. In the pursuit of his pro-
fession he has won the public esteem equally as |
an old Irishwoman selling fruit and as a Chinese
dog-pie vendor, and he has cast a halo of chival-
rous romance over the figure of an aged nigger
selling hot clam-soup. In private life he is
of an affectionate disposition and fond of
cats. Under these circumstances we feel our-
selves called upon to give Miss Blanche Lewis a
chance to reconsider her decision,
* # # *
“ The Road to Ruin,” referred to in last
week’s Bulletin as a “ good old comedy,” filled
Melbourne Royal on Saturday. The world has
become wiser since Charles Warner first figured
in this ancient work, and the Royal company
isn’t so uniformly strong as that which appeared
at the London Vaudeville, therefore the “Road
to Ruin ” doesn’t soothe one’s weary spirit as it
did aforetime. A very thin yarn is stretched over
five short acts, chopped up into front scenes and
scenes proper, so that, what with curtain-dropping
and shoving on of scenes about a yard back from
the footlights, the gallery boys waxed derisive on
Saturday night. Banker Dcrnton is the doting
but angry father of a Charles Surface kind of son
—a young man who is frequently drunk, con-
stantly “ doing in " thousands (which the firm has
to pay) at poker, and eternally protesting love for
the dear old dad he is bringing to ruin. When
Dorm on and Co. are on the point of bursting up,
the noble Harry gets particularly drunk, and tel's
a giddy widow that he’ll marry her that night if
she will give him £50,000 to save dear dad. The
widow bites freely at this vision of con-
nubial bliss, and gives Harry £6000 down on the
nai), but instead of taking the ready to his dear
dad Harry uses it to redeem a stone-broke pal
from a debtor’s prison, which is intensely noble,
but very inconsistent. After this things get
very mixed, A flash cad named Goldfinch is going
to marry the widow, with the assistance of a
lawyer, who has prigged her late husband’s will,
but the pathos of this situation was marred by the
audience bolting off to catch their trams. In
the meantime old Dornton hadn't been
ruined, because his partner Sulky had found
a million or two at the critical mo-
ment, and Harry (not yet quite sober) finishes
up by taking a pure young Sjphle to his gene-
rous heart. The stone-broke pal is also made
happy somehow. There is a lesson to be studied
from plays like “ Sohcol for Scar dal,” “Road to
Ruio,” and “ Sophia,” viz , that the heroes cf last
century never attempted to do a day's work. Mr.
Charles Warner somewhat overacted the part Ci
Harry Dornton, and so piled up the agony that it
was, at timer, hard to analyse his excitement.
But he will improve on Saturday’s performance
when somebody tells him that hysterical affection
for dear dad is not one of the customs of this
country. Mr. H. Vincent was thoroughly good as
old Dornton, and Mr. Alfred Phillips pnt a fair
amount of go into his Goldfinch Mr. Clltheroe
scored heavily as the wicked lawyer, and
Messrs. Anson, Flemming, and others were
all there. Those who remembered Sophie
Larkin as the Widow Warren could only
turn away and weep from Miss Flora An-
stead s burlesque of an all-important character,
nor was Mr. Warner’s pretty young daughter a
1 very successful Sophie. It was this lady’s second
appearance on any stage, and her voice is still of
I the infant-phenomenon order, but she has an art-
less natural style which looks promising. Without
’ strong female talent it is not likely that “ Road to
‘ Ruin ” will catch on like “ Drink.” When it had
a long run in London, Mr. Warner’s colleagues
| were William Farren, David James, Thomas
J Thorne, and Horace Wigan—all well suited to
’ their parts. Inimitable Miss Larkin played the
3 widow, and for Sophie we had Amy Fawsitt, a
5 talented woman who loved the wine when it was
[ ruddy, and died miserably in New York.
i # # * #
» The state of the dress circle at Melbourne
1 Princess’s is sasslety’s mute protest against ad-
L vanced i ri es, and the triumvirate are accordingly
: regretting that they must withdraw “ Faust” on
J the 29th. They might have woke up the show
r considerably by engaging Verdi for Mephisiopheles,
[ but somehow they chose to let that imposing
1 Italian stand down while a comparative notice
5 has the mount. Foolish, very 1
* * * *
j “ Ingomar ” holds on at the Bijou until
a tc-moriow (Friday), when “Twelfth Night’
a affords Ksaie Jenyns a fresh opportunity for look-
ing pretty. Grattan Riggs has been doing satis-
factory business with the everlasting “ irish De-
tective," but on Saturday he puts on “ Nobly
Won," which is a genuine novelty in these parts.
Jack Burke, the bruiser, is varying Ooghill
Bros.' entertainment by plugging somebody’s nose
every evening till farther notice, and “Silk
Stockings” have reached their 580th night at
Victoria Hall. Among the special attractions
here are a peerless tenor and a human canary who
can whistle till the oows come home.
*# * #
The widow of poor Mr. Federici is to be
tendered a benefit at Melbourne Princess’s on
Saturday morning (24th). Charles Warner, Essie
Jenyns, Grattan Riggs, Nellie Stewart, and every-
body else, will give their services in a cause which
is especially deserving. A crowded house may be
taken for granted.
## * *
Gastritis was the name of the thing that
Sara Bernhardt’s tiger died of. It endured eight
hours of excruciating agony, and Sara nursed it
in her arms all the time. Gastritis is another
name for stomach-ache. Just fancy nursing a
tiger with the stomaoh-ache! There is in life
much poetry after all.
*# # *
It is said of a certain, lengthy actress well-
known in Australia, that she hovered over the
beds of her dying male friends like a corpse-light
dancing over a grave. No man she visited re-
covered ; bar attentions to the sick were taken as
warnings to prepare for the icy mausoleum, and
the patient who heard her footstep outside his
door trembled and froze to his marrow, and said,
“ Lo, here is the eagle !’’ She gloated over the
couch of the patient, and revelled in the morbid
[? l
joy of bidding impressive farewells to those who
tottered at the edge of the tomb. And now we
read of Sara Bernhardt that “when she was ones
studying for a new play in which she was to die
of consumption, she frequented the consumption
wards of the Paris hospitals. One day, as she
was passing through one of the rooms, a dying
and delirious woman rose to a sitting posture on
the bed, and, shaking her finger at Madame Bern-
hardt 1 , she oried, * Look there I There comes that
dreadful woman. She is death itself! Wherever
she goes we diel Whenever she looks at one of
us that is the end ! Take her away 1 Take her
away !' And with a shriek, she fell back dead.
The actress did not again visit the hospitals."
## * *
The Khedive of Egypt has sent to Paris
for a French ballet. The requirements are iron-
clad and imperative in the smallest detail. The
form must he as Venus like as possible, the foot
small and slender, the calf fifteen inches round,
the arm and neck plump and well turned, and the
costume de ballot cut with the greatest economy
as regards quantity of material.
#* # #
Gaorge Coppin, in the days before he
retired! for the last time, used, among other things,
to get out of bad on the stage, and this conduct on
his part always created a thrill of wild expectancy
among the ladies of the audience. It was in
“ Milky White," where George appeared as Daniel
White, a virtuous milk-vendor, who was much
troubled by the awful way the hoys dropped dried
rats into his water-butt. The curtain would go
up and reveal Daniel in bed, where he would He
soliloquising for some time and working up the
agony, and tien he would prepare to rise. At
this point the ladies always began to get fldgetty,
my dear, and to whisper to each other, and to
clear their pretty throats for a scream and then
Daniel would get out of bed and reveal the fact
that he had turned in with all his clothes on.
Whereupon the fair auditors would draw a long
breath of relief —“ yon know it would have been
too dreadful, my dear."
*# # #
The third concert of the Sydney Y.M.C. A.
Musical Society will be held on Thursday, oth
April, in the Association Hall.
## * *
Professor Kennedy, the Sydney Opera
House mesmerist, tests his insensible subjects by
driving a needle through their cheeks. What the
public waat to see now is the needle that would
go through the Professor’s cheek. Or the hatchet
either. They were playing “ Macbeth," and there
were only five people in the company, all told.
Macbeth bad to play Macduff also, and they had
come to the last act. “ Just you string your
speeches and Macduff’s together till you come to
the fight, will you? said the manager, “ and per-
haps in a minute or two I'll be able to spare one
of the witches to kill you.” Ballet-master to fair
applicant for an engagement: “ A-e you accus-
tomed to tights?" “Oh, yes, sir; I have been
married five years, and my old man has
never been sober once the whole time.” Hengler,
the circus man, died worth £lOO,OOO. Mr-
Carrie Swain is a large holder of Broken Hill
stock?. We hate bloated capitalists. The latest
comic eong has the pathetic refrain, “Oh
mother, keep my bull-pup from the sale.”
Goethe s great drama has been parodied under
the name of “Dr. Faust and Miss Marguerite,"
and that parody of a prince, Tummy, expressed
himself delighted with the clumsy deseoration.
A dramatised version cf Fergus Hume’s novelette,
“ The Mystery of a Hansom Cab," published in
Melbourne a year or so back, was to be produced
at London Princess’s last month. James Fer-
nandez, one of the most useful actors living (and
they are of little or no use when dead) had been
engaged for the show. Playing “ Faust ”at Bos-
ton, Henry Irving realised £2OOO in two matings.
When running the Queen’s Theatre, London,
Labouohere one night found himself suddenly ex-
posed to the gaze of the audience In his ordinary
dress, the curtain having risen ere he had
time to get behind . the scenes. Rising
to the occasion, he struck an attitude, and,
waving his hand majestically, exclaimed: “We
shallmeet again,” and vanished through the wingp.
Actor Lester, late of Minnie Palmer’s crowd, has
lost an action against Brough and Boucicault for
six weeks’ salary. Lester was given the part cf
Squire Western on “approval,” but the manage-
ment didn’t approve, and Boucicault had to tafce
it over himself. It seems that the actor “on ap-
proval” couldn’t talk “shire dialect," whereas
Mr. Dion B. is very strong in that, and, as Squire
Western, he talks about three dialects in each
sentence. The latest swindle is to take a phono-
graph to the performance of a new opera, and
pirate the entire score, music and all.
Dear Bulletin, — Judge Williams, of Vic-
toria, has passed sentence on George Gossip, John
Reardon, John Holmes and John Murray, con-
victed on several charges cf assault and robbery,
and who, after assaulting and robbing Mr. Irvine,
manager of the Bank of Australasia, St. Hilda,
got him arrested under a loathsome charge.
Reardon was sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment
and three floggings of Id lashes each, Gossip, to
18 years’ imprisonment and two floggings of 10
lashes each ; and Holmes and Murray to 10 years’
imprisonment and three floggings of Id lashes
each. Yarious periods of solitary confinement
were also ordered. No one will deny that the
prisoners' crime was inexpressibly vile—no one
will contend that they, as individuals, deserve pity.
But then the community and the reputation
of the country deserye pity the tendency
of the law should ever be in the direction
of humanising, not brutalising, the popular
sentiment. Where is the logic of flogging a man
and thereafter keeping him in gaol for 20 years
torturing him, and then screwing him down in a
living tomb until he is greyheaded ? Society has
caught its tigers and has put them in the cage.
Why should it seek to further ensavage
them by subjecting them to torture ? Philo-
sophically, AnglO'Australdom is not yet
very much above the level of Dahomey.
Judge Williams ought to be ashamed of himself
thus to degrade his native country in the presence
of the civilised peoples of the earth. If Anthony
Reardon and Co. did to me what they did to bank-
manager Irvine, I would at the moment probably
like to feed fat my vengeance after the manner of
the Red Indian who has caught his enemy. This
would be good retaliation, but, after all, very
poor logic, and a savage and unreasoning act does
not become sacred if coldly and deliberately per-
formed by the State instead of suddenly and
passionately by the Individual—on the other hand,
it becomes more revolting and more absurd. Keep
Anthony Reardon and Co. in gaol until their
bodies rot. That would be logical. Flog Anthony
Reardon and Co. until they die. That possibly
would be logical. But bury them and flog them,
too !—why, thecave-menwouldhave known better.
The history of all civilised countries tends to show
that the crioc e of any particular place is great in
proportion to the brutality of its penal code. In
other words, punishment dees not deter ; punish-
ment does not reform, Yet, a man is caught red-
handed'in some crime, he is locked up, flogged,
treated as a wild, dangerous brute beast, every-
thing is put in operation calculated to beget hate
and breed revenge, and then—he is let loose on
society, to reap, in some way or other, the whirl,
wind of the vengeance sown within prison-walls in
hideous bodily torture. And he reaps it! Society
gets the full benefit of a reckless man’s cultured
savagery. He has been educated into an enemy.
He went in a man, and he comes out a fiend.
“ You have plucked out my heart, and given me
instead the heart of a wild beast," said the Nor-
folk Island convict who had committed a murder
who had killed a man for no other reison tban
that he, the convict, might be taken to Sydney and
hanged. The whole business is absurd and
childish; worthy rather the legislation of the
brainless Laputans than of a people boasting a
civilisation founded on reason. - No advanced
scientific thinker of the present day entertains the
doctrine of the complete freedom of the human
will, and all laws formed for the protection of
society must recognise this, or elee prove imbecile
and ineffective. There is only one basis to be re-
cognised. The notion of individual responsibility
is too ethereal a theory for a moment’s serious
consideration. “ The greatest good of the greatest
number” is the one ground upon which
we can deal logically with crime. Hither,
then, imprison for life the man unfitted
by a harmful combination of characteristics
which mark him out as an enemy to society, or
kill him. Put him in an hospital, if needful, or
a prison workshop, where his labour shall benefit
the entire community. This is a mere matter of
detail. Or, on the other hand, kill him. Recog-
nise that he is not fit to live in society without en-
dangering its existence, therefore eliminate him—
gently, neatly, quietly, with no villainous gallows,
or brutally hideous hangman, or any of the grue-
Eome and community-degrading pomp and cir-
cumstance of bestial punishment. Do everything
dispassionately, with, in the words of the late Sir
James Martin, “an infinitude of pity" for the
victim; with no revenge, no hysteria; simply
with a recognition of the stern necessity for
logical action. But in the name of the unknown
power we worship as the Deity, let us not fl n g
men whom we are going to keep in prison for life
or for 10 or 20 years.— An Australian.


Everybody says—and what everybody Bays must be true—
that Pemell s Snow-wiJite Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market *
next you bake try PemeM s Snow-white
and your bread will hrj as white as snow.
Roller'
Pepper
And
Salt
There were three big able-bodied beaks
on the Bench tin other day at Gore (N.Z ) and
they were trying one miserable, doubled-up
prisoner who had left suddenly with 2s. The
odds were against him, and he was borne down
by numbers and found goilty. Then the chair-
man straightened himself up to squash the victim
with the knob kerrie of the law, but before he
could begin, the beak on his left said curtly that
it would be srven days. Then the chairman
glared at him and toid him to “dry up," as it would
be 30 dayp, and the left replied that it wouldn’t
be anything of the kind, and reached for the
court log-book to enter the sentence. The chair-
man also reached for it, and the pair hung on to
opposite ends of the book and howled at eaoh
other. The prisoner rose to state that he would
abide by the deoision of the beak who spoke first; but
he restrained himself by the aid of several police-
men. Next, the chairman lost his hold owing to
perspiration, and his rival got the book and
entered the seven days, while the head of the
firm bellowed that it would be a month, if not
more, and he had a good mind to make it six.
The other beak joined in the confusion, and
among the three the prisoner was sentenced to
upwards of 100 years’ confinement of the most
aggravated description. He was then taken away,
and locked up, and the police are endeavouring to
sort out the sentence. The chances are that he
will get out before the winter is over.
Th 9 religious editor of the Sydney D.T.
devoted a column lately to Presbyterian mieslora
to the heathen. Judging from the following ex-
tract, we Imagine that the D.T. will have to keep
a Chinese interpreter if it is going to go on wlih
this line of business :
Rsv. J. M. Rdss and Mr. John Kirkland had paid a visit
to the Mission House on a Sabbath evening in January,
when about 40 Chinamen assembled, almost all of a superior
class The service was conducted in Presbyttrian fashion,
San key's hymns being used. Mrs. Wai presided at the har-
monium, and the sermon appeared from the delivery to be a
combination of earne-t reasoning and fervent appeal. A
deep impression was made on the ir minds of the good thus
wrought among their fellow Chinese colonies. They con-
sidered Mr. Wai eminently qualified fur bis work, and re-
commended that a suitab'e piece of land be leased and a
proper building erected.
The two reverends obviously didn’t understand a
word of ths apo3tle Wai’s discourse, but when
that Hallelujah Asiatic pounded his chest, and
screamed, “Ht-kum mukee Mo hoo yo, hi yah
hoo-ki-aah Joss ah-cat hl-bnng hell-ae,” they were
deeply impressed, and moved that he should get a
church and a pleoe of land on the ground that he
was “ eminently qualified for his work,” As it
happened, however, The Bulletin s sub-edPo",
who understands Chinese a good dea’, was present
on one of these oooasions when a yellow afloat e
named Ah Sow was expounding, and this was a
little of what he he»id: "Blethlen, Joss not
wolth a oent. Chineeman wolsbip Josa he go
lound hutnpee cabbagee, Chineeman talkee lub-
bish like big white fool pleaohy idiot he get lich,
buy land, buy subulban allotment, get white wife
with heap money, get house, get money in
bankee. White fool not wolth a cent any
mole Joss. White fool velly gleen. Like talkee
about convelted Chineeman, like buy things off
convelted Chineeman. Convelted Chineeman
pleach, and Eulopean Chlistian build him chulch.
Bymby all Chtneemen convelted, all pleach, all
take up collection, Eulopean humpee cabbagee in-
stead, Cabbagee heavy on hot day. Coineeman
plefer Eulopean cally cabbagee. P’ibaps Eulc-
pean like cally cabb3geo. Chineeman get
to be pa’son, get to be lawyer some day,
get to be magistlate, rr ember of Pa’lment.
get to bs Plime Minister. Bi-yah. Josa be damn.
Eulopean man makes Jess in Bilmingham, chalge
Chineeman too much heap money for Joss. Eulo-
pean man swindle Chineeman when he sell him
Jos 3 . Eulopean man,he damn. Pleachy man bs
dam”. Kvelything be damn. Chineeman play
fan-tan, play pak-a-pu, fly him bow-wow, makee
white man pay. White man keep convelted
Chineeman in licee. Chineeman takee collection
at end of this selvioe.” We move that all the
reverend Chinamen are eminently fitted for their
billets.
* * •
Sir Henry Parkea created a painful im-
pression in the N. S. W. Assembly the other night.
Dibbs’ want of confidence motion was under dis-
cussion, and the old man took to roaming about
in a circus-horse fashion and snorting derisively
at tlis Opposition speakers, and performing other
antics expressive of lefty scorn. When a Prctec-
tlonist rose to speak, the Premier would gaze at
him as if he were a dynamiter or a kanaka, or an
insolvent who had thrice gone In' o bankruptcy,
and would then tramp heavily out and remain
outside till ho had finished. Just as he was
uttering his last words Pat kes would return and
sit down, but when another orator succeeded him
the aged borrower would stand h’s hair up on
end, give a shiver of horror, and flee once
more. This was very good while it lasted,
but once the father of Blllirgsgate missed
his mark, and came in at the wrong moment.
Dibhs was ergaged in reviewing a famous
outpouring of larrikin abuse, in the course
of which Parkes described the Assembly
as a gathering of blackguards, liars, and
idiots. ‘ ‘ Where are the blackguards ? ’ demanded
the Protectionist leader. - “Will th» blackguards
plea e stand up?” Nobody rose. “Where are
the liars?" The House absolutely howled for the
liars, but EOt cne of them appeared. “ Let’s see
theidlols, then!” thundered Dibb\ ‘Produce
the idiots. Bring them in! Their country calls
for the idiots t” Then he made a pause to see if
the idiots would roll ur, and at that unhappy
moment the door opened and Parkes came in.
Apparently he ktew that some cne had been In-
quiring for him.
* * •
An affirmative person named Askwith
has applied for a patent for a military flying
machine which is to scar over a hostile army and
drop shot and shell into its midst. It is to be
propelled by a crank worked by the operator’s
knee, and is calculated to blow the head off an
army corps in short order. We are opposed to
bloodshed as a matter of pr'nciple, but we men-
tion this newinvention Inorder to point outhow ex-
tensively it may be utilised as a means of drop-
ping Bibles and tracts on the head of the heathen
who in his blindness bows down to wood and
stone, and if a line and hook were added so that
the flying missionary in the air could fish for Joss
and haul him up when he gets a bite, and cariy
him away from his deluded worshippers, it is
difficult to set a limit to the good which might bo
accomplished. Poisoned meat might also be let
fall for dogs and high priests with skill and
AUSTRALIAN ICHTHYOLOGY.
GRANDPA (ardent geologist): “YES, I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT AT ONE TIME THE
SEA COVERED ALL THESE MOUNTAINS AND. IF ONE WERE TO SEARCH,
THE BONES OF FISH”
GRANDSON (non-scientific): “YES. GRAND-DAD. I FOUND A SARDINE-TIN THIS
MORNING."
velocity, and other means of civilisation could be
scattered from a safe altitude. In consideration
of our position as a Sunday -school superinten-
dent, lar-reader, and general expounder of the
law and the gospels, we regard the flying
machine as an agent which carries with it
countless possibilities for the spread of good
tidings and great j<fy among uncivilised nations,
and we are prepared to take a hand in the work
and do all that can be done by a man if he didn't
happen to be there when thpy started, or if, they
started without him. or came back after having
done something and found he hadn’t arrived. It
is difficult to imagine anything mere inspiriting
than the sight of a flying machine returning from
a cruire with a lot of little wooden gods on board
vthu had been captured cut of the temples of the
heather, and though a Binful generation may be
tempted to make use cf the invention to hook up
clothes-lines in Central Asia and to annex the
week's washing on the Russian stepres, still it
stands pre-eminent as the great Evangelical
achievement of the ontury, and we look con-
fidently forward to the time when every idolator
will have the gospel dropped through his roof
from a height of several miles.
• * •
Something has got to be done to the men
who taks advantage of woman s weakness and
impose upon her. The world la full of girls with
soft innocent facss and tender beseeching eyes
and little delicate white handp, who are taken in
by drapery hounds, defrauded by millinery
hjsenas abused by oronery pirates, and swindled
by animals in the fancy goods trade, and made to
work 18 hours a day, to be defrauded otit of their
wages at the last. Then as they grow a little
older they are taken in by book-flends Who per-
suade them to expend 30’. in a hunk of drivel
which can be bought in a shop for half-a-crown,
and they are had by sewinzmachine agen’s,
and done brown over the Huckleberry piano
and the F/ying Dutchman washing machine
and other swindles, and for ell these
troubles they have no redress, and can
only take refuge in tears. Woman is a soft, ten-
der, clinging creature, and requires to be let
down gently. The other day-, at Wellington
(N, Z ), Constable Cole called on ore cf the gentle
sex on some business or other, and she smashed
his head with a Are shovel, and bib a piece out of
him, and set four dogs on to him, and when he got
her into a cab she broke the window and stamped
tt e bottom out of the vehicle so that her head
was inside and her feat trailing on the ground.
Woman is man’s best blessing on earth, and it is
cec’ssary that something should be done to save
her loving, delicate nature from rough concussion
against the asperities 0! the outer world.
One hundred men on the Murrunobnrrah-
Blayney (N.'G.W.) railway line complain that they
can neither obtain payment for the work they
have done nor earn enough where they are to pay
for their passages home.
That was really a very innocent fellow —
chief engineer of one of the N.Z. direct steamers
—who, on being sued in an affiliation matter, and
asked if there was any ground for the complaint,
replied, “ Not to my knowledge."
Old man Parkes declares that “ next after
God, it is our duty to take care of our country.’
This is simply Bplendid. The idea of Parkes taking
care of the Deity is a sort cf lusus naturae notion
that “ought to be stuffed|and presented to the
Sydney museum.
Moritz Saphir, a witty Austrian journalist,
was once standing in a crowded theatre. Some
ore leaned bn his back, thrusting hia head over
his shoulder. Saphir drew out his handkerchief
and wiped the man's nose violently. The latter
started back. “Oh, I beg your pardon,” said
Saphir, “ I thought it was mine."
Sidney E. News remarks: “The body
was recovered and taken to his late home.” TheD,
we suppose. he was laid on his late bed, and his
late wife pulled off his late boots, and bis late
friends rallied round the grave. Why doesn't
Alfred tell us what the deceased’s late home
died from ?
The unspeakable Turk, seemiDgly, under-
stands what Christianity has done for the poor
heathen. James Hingstcn, in an Argus Utter,
relates how a Pasha of Anatolia asked him what
had become of our aboriginals James replied
through an interpreter that King Billy’s com-
patriots had died off “in attempting to imitate
the habits of Europeans.” The Pasha calmly
observed, “ Too much liquor, I presume.”
ADDRESS TO A GOVERNOR.
0 ! Baron Bob, O ! Baron Bob,
This is a sad, distressing job
About the guns at Sydney fired
When Emperor Bill at last expired.
You, Robert, moved by loyal zeal
To show the grief we ought to feel,
From Melbourne in a hurry wired—
“ Load StOguns and see they’re fired."
Then wiped away the tear of sorrow,
And thought—’ 1 What shall I back to morrow ? ”
0 ! Baron Bob, O 1 Baron Bob,
Though you had no desire to rob
Poor William of a single gun,
They should have fir ed ninety-one.
The story of that lost report
Is bound to reach the Queen, at Court;
Her poor old mother’s heart will ache
For cousin Bill’s post-mortem sake.
You must repair the ill you've done,
By letting off that extra gun.
BRIEF MENTION.
N. S. Griffin bank-acjDuntaftt has disap-
peared. N.S.F.
The Chinaman gladly acoapts the Bible.
He uses it to make thick soles for his shoe?.
The Pope received 100,000 botblea of wine
among his jubilee presents. Most of them are
supposed to have come from Sydney publicans.
Or emus,
A jubilee Mayor just grovels and prates,
And proolaims that he’s loyal all day,"
But he can’d bus i> a ring that has boodled the rates,'
B: cause he ain’t built that way.
The best advt. any bsardieg house has
ever bad has b;en obtained by a Melbourne hash-
emporium. John Haynes died suddenly there of
fatty degeneration of the heart,
Huxley has shown that a frog deprived of
half its brain will move about,' but is incapable of
(arning Us own sustenance. Tnissorb of frog was
she ancestor of the Civil Service.
The same ship which conveyed a mis-
sionary and his wife to Tamatave was also
heavily laden with ram Some people may he
shocked at this. We aren’t. Rum is about the
only antidote for the copra gospel,
According to the S.M. Herald, Maud
Clitheroe has got two months for being “ a
nommon persor.” How is it then that the
N.S.W. Parliament Is not in gaol ?
A Sydney ex-alderman ,has committed
suicide. The Bulletin commends his example
to the serious consideration of the present mem-
bers of the local Municipal Council.
Law and Swindells is the name of a
Sydney firm. They ought to call it Law and
Law. It would mean the same thing and be ever
aa much shorter. P, S. -This is a joke.
One Henricbson points out that pigs are
notoriously poison-proof, and foretells a fortune
tor the man who extracts their j uice as a snake-
medicine. After all, we may yet find a use for the
poor alderman.
There was a bit of a run on lower-case
“o's” at the Victorian Government Printing-
ffice recently. Several applications from selec-
ors in the parish ot Boomahnoomoonah were to
ie dealt with. However. Boomahnoomoonah has
to take a back seat in the pressnee of Woolloo-
mooloo.
According to “Stockwhip” Kelly, the
N.S.W. squatters are “ nothing more than boun-
dary riders frthe bank?.”
Mr. Mortimer M-npes, a South Australian
irtist, who has b?en travelling in Japan, is about
'o exhibit in London a collection of paintings
i lustrative of the customi and manners of the
'and of Pooh-Bab.
The London Bat flap 3 it s wings no more.
Tt has a bigger libel iecord for its tima than even
che O’Kane's Northern Miner. Mr. “ Jimmy
Rwir” his left it, and the spirit of the Bat has
fled forevermore. The paper now appears as the
Hawk.
Paßtoral item “ A Missoud mm says
t iafc he recently went into the weeds, painted a
black circle on the end of a leg, and whin he went
hack to the log an hour later, ha found 300 dead
abbits there, the animals having mistaken the
circle for a hole in the log, and dashed themselves
to death against it.”
Dear Bulletin,- -Labouchere says he
would net like to bs stripped or dressed by
another person. So said I, all the way to India,
right past the Sandheads, up the Hoogly, and into
Port Wil iam. An hour afterwards a barber was
shaving me, a bea-er washirg my feet, pulling on
<uv seeks and holding my shirt to get into. Let
Labby try India in the hot weather. Still, Icm
hardly fancy the /rma-chewlng business in the
South Peas. —Hiram Aeike.
Cablegrams from the more authentic
sources represent Empgror William’s death as
having been peaceful and painless which, in all
human probability, ib wap, as the nonagenarian
was utterly worn out. Nevertheless, a “ cable”
in Sydney E. News says : “ Yesterday afternoon
he ’ (the dying Emperor) " amazed all beholders
by his wonderful fortitude in bearing his intense
suffering?.” Suoh cablegrams may be good
enough 10 read out to the fat pigs at Alfred Ben-
rutot’s farm, but they don’t delude the publie.
It is cabled that, out of the Queen’s Jubilee
Offering F<mi, wh'ch amounts to £70,000, mainly
subscribed by governesses and servants, &0.,
the trustees have decided to expend £5OOO in pur-
chasing a pert on a 1 ornament for her Majesty.
Should the Queen, who, at the Jubilee, gave
not an extra penny to charities out of her
vast hoard, consent to bebauble her com-
monplace and aged person with diamonds
bought at snob, colossal expense, while thou-
s nds of women around her are dying of
starvation, it will be a hideous ciime.
Thus the new London evening ;paper
A strange, true story will soon be told, perhaps in the law
court’. A pier whom eveiybody regarded as a confirmed
bachelor has just startled the farhionab’e' world in which he
moves by the announcement that he has been married for 15
years; and that, moreover, he is the father of several legiti-
mate childreo. The lady he has loved and honoured was
formerly a domestic servant in his mothers household, and
was expelled on excitirg the perilous admiration of the son
and hei-. The faithful lover of the young lady married
secretly, and announces his now that the death of
hi 3 mother unseals his lips.
The days cf romance and the delightful arrange-
ments by which grooms and coacbmsn make it
convenient to annex a nobleman’s daughter with
the usual amount of lucre, are evidently ns very
much in evidence as in the days of the confiding
damsels and giddy knights of yore.
Ex-Mayor Rutter, of North Rockhampton,.
who is just now in gaol for forgery, writes a
pathetio letter warning people against plunging
their cwn and other people’s money into wild cat
mines and risking their immortal eouis by over
ppeculaticn in land. The clergy, however, have
strange to ray, taken little notice of this appeal’,
and Ratter’s letter, which might have adorned
the tail-end of many a discourse, has bean silently l
dropped. But then the clergy are great on
suburban allotment*, and -under the guidance of
the Loard they buy into n ines when the quota
tiors are low and sell out again at a profit when
Providence moves in a mysterious way to
make the shares go np. If Rutter had burst r
on horse-racing or dice, the dry bones cf his his-
tory would have been picked over and over again
by the church, and his fata would have served a® *
a ‘ lesson ” to the young till Rutter himseJM was
old, but


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. “Ted’ Lee, the N.S.W. Crown
Prosecutor, is again seriously ill —at Melbourne.
Purve3, Q.C., of Melbourne, says that the
man is not always the seducer. Are you listening,
J. 8. Farnell ?
A collection of Australian tales by the late
Carl Fellberg is in London, going the rounds of
the publishers.
Lady Broome is editieg Lady Brassey’s
last journal. The old wheeze: “New brooms,”
&0., may fit in here.
Frank Rogers, Q.C., is president of the
Sydney Primrose League. “The man Rogers,’
of the Colonial Office, no doubt.
Matb Macfie some time ago resigned the
editorship of the Melbourne Leader. Enough of
Joseph Syme is as good as a feasr.
Douglas Sladen has bluffed the colossal
Ignorance of a London publisher to let him bring
out a big 44 Australian Anthology."
Doctors say that drinking large quantities
of water produoes fat. Now we want to know
why temperance apostle Knapp is not corpulent.
Miss Munck, daughter of a poor Swedish
gentleman, has married Prinoe Oscar of Sweden.
The lady will probably be disowned by her family.
Sir Robert Carden, who lately died, owned
the 44 agony-column" of the Times, which was
settled on his wife, the daughter of old John
Walter.
The income of the Duke of Westminster
is reported to equal one million sterling per
annum, and this is probably an under-estimate of
what he actually receives.
Besides the large allowance which the
present Pope draws from the faithful for looking
after their souls when in purgatory, he has a
private income of £30,000 per annum.
Archibald Forbes, it is reported, Is im-
proving in health. He is at present luxuriating
in Florida 4 1 hope to be in the saddle soon," is
the refrain of this old comrade of emperors.
| |Hughes-Hallett, M.P., turns up in the
Commons wearing in his buttonhole the whi e
flo *er of a blameless life, but he makes no
advances to anyone, and exceedingly few spsak
to him.
"““The Ymog Men’s Cnri-tian Association
shortly celebrate under the patronage of Governor
Caringto-. How Albe t Edward must snigger
wten ho tears of hi old green-room and raoe-
conrss 41 pal ’ as a Christian youDg man !
An enthusiastic correspondent of the S.M.
Herald, writing on the subject cf dito'cs, says
that tin day is pas- for Queen Vic oria to crave
for a decree absolute Net so very long past,
thong a ! John bat this item van’s thinkirg
over.
Tennyson, we real, “never smokes the
name pipe t*iep. .His invariable custom is to
break each pipe after he has smoked it out Th >
steady deterioration in his poetry is prooably due
to the fact that he never writes twioe with tfce
same pan.
“ Confessions of a Publisher ” is tha
twelfth book turned oub by “John Strange
Winter” (Mrs. Arthur Standard) in less than time
years. Ic w«s offered for serial use to the editors
of several magazines owned by publishers —and
promptly declined.
Palaford’s figures will no longer run wild
-across the burning Sahara of the Freetrade Press.
A method has been discovered for confining the
evil within a limited ares. Puisford henceforth
edits the commercial wilderness of the Sidney
Daily Telegraph.
Mr. Justice Owen, of N.S.W., calls him-
self 4 he Chief Judge in Equity.” Sir William
Manning was content with the tide of “ Primary
Judge.” It will be only fair if Judge Wiadejer
insists upon having a more comprehensive title
also The Bulletin is qui e ready to suggest one
It is said that ex Treasurer Dibtsjs not
the only man who has suffered at the hands of
Webb, M.L.C., on Premier Parkes’ account-.
When the Hairy Bismarck went to Bathurst on a
recent occasion as the guest of W ebb, the cook
spoiled the dinner intended for the alleged Grand
Ola Man and got his conge.
Thtj furniture of that areh-atheist, Jos.
Byrnes, has been seized by the Melbourne police,
Jo?, refused to pay a little bill for fines and other
law expanses, hence the seizure. With a burst of
the very fl esd irony, the officers left the heretic
his family Bible. Under Briitsh law, a workman s
tools cannot be seized in distraint.
Mrs. Parmelee, the Brooklyn millionai-
ress who lately died of heart disease while visit-
ing a notorious New York assignation-house, was
one of Henry Ward Beecher's greatest friends j
and stood by him right through the Tilton scan-
dal. The man who left her to her shameful death
was another of the B echer crowd.
J-.hn Rae, N S W. Under-Secretary for
'Public Works, has had to retire from his billet
because the boss of his department, old John
Satnerland, who is over 70, and qaite useless—
and not now or ever In his life possessor of half
Rae’s brains, helped to frame a rule that all Civil
servants over three-score should “clear.
The dig ified Attorney- General Simpson,
«of N.S- W-, when on the Benob, once sent “ Jaok ’
Want a note pointing out that it was a breach of
professional etiquette to wear a white waistcoat
In Court. Anyone acquainted with the straight-
forward “Jack’s” command of language can
1 imagine what he said on reading that note.
Mayor Harris, of Sydney, discourses about
i ex-Mayor Riley’s ancestors :
The Mayor said he had allowed himself to be insulted
-there by a person who could not be called a man. Alderman
Riley once told him that he (Alderman Riley ) was an Aus-
t tialian b rn of Irish parents, and subsequently he (Alder-
- man RUey) kept him waiting an hour, saying that he was of
™ old English family, and did not spell his name in the
I Irish way, but spelt it R-i-l-e-y.
Alfred Bennett advertises in his Evening
'News the intended publication of a novel In his
other print, the Town and Country Journal.
'The yarn, he says, “ deals with some of the worst
■ passions of human nature.” That’s right, Alfred
tftiok as heretofore to the worst passions of
human nature,” and your circulation will- never
grow less.
The Shah of Persia will come to Europe
again for the Paris 1893 Exhibition. When he
was in England last time he offered one of his
nobles to be hanged, bo as to see practically how
they old it. He Is reported this time to threaten
the guillotine right off to any of his wives who go
in for bustles. Last time he didn’t take his wives
to England. In reply to a diplomatic inquiry as
to whether they would accompany him, he said,
“ No—ln that l , as in oih r matters, he would rely
on the hospitality of the great and geaeroua
English naion.”
F. L. Smyth, the Melbourne barrister,
was addressing the Full Court last week la his
usual eager style—his words over-running and
tripping one another. Having sat dawn, the
learned counsel rose again piesmtly and thus
delivered himself; “In the hate of discussion I
called your Honors gintlemen; I made a mistake,
your Honors.”
The Dake of Bedford—one of England’s
richest men—is continually naunted by a ftar
that he will die in the workhouse. At least so
says the S.M. Herald’s “special” with a deep-
drawn sigh for the duke’s hallucination. But we
are not so sure that His Grace’s 44 chimera” won’t
eventuate. It's a very uncertain thing to be a
duke, nowadays.
Lord Howard de Walden —the drunken
brute who has to be slung out of the house where
his wife lies dying—is one of our very old nobility.
The title dates back 300 years, and the family
motto is *' Not by whom, but in what manner ”
That’s rather appropriate. The present Lord,
anparently, has been chuoked into the street after
the manner of a parcel, and by his own brother-in-
law.
Two years ago a Warrego (Q.) squatter
left his station on account of the drought, taking
with him his flocks to better pastures. Recently
he returned to his -Varrego property, and while
searching through his papers came across an un-
opened letter which he had mislaid two years
previously. On opening the epistle he found a
Bank of England draft for £lOO0 —his share in the
distribution of a distant relative's estate.
The recent death of Dsan Seott, of Lid-
dell and Scott fame, recalls an anecdote of
Daan Liddell, told by the old boys of the Blue Coat)
Sohool (Christ’s Hospital), London. Sometimes a
boy would construe a passage differen ly from Dr.
Liddell’s interpretation, giving 4 Liddell and
Scott ” as an authority. . The lexicon being pro-
duced and the boy’s appeal thus sustained, the
IF DRIVEN TOO FAR EVEN THE BOOT WILL TURN.
learned doobor would Invariably exclaim: “ Dear I
dear! what can Mr. Soobt have been thinking
about ?”
Henry F. Chorley, the musical critic of
the Athena-UM, was in later life a man as re-
pulsive in appearance, as insolent in bearing, as
malevolent in speech as was Rogers, the poet.
Bat when young and obscure he was anxious to
propitiate the risen. One day, in a crowded room,
he saw old Rogers hovering here and there among
the oompany, and addressed him, offering his own
chair. “ Were you looking for a seat, Mr.
Rogers ?” he Inquired. “ No, sir," replied bhe
old man, staring him full in the faca; “I was
trying to avoid you."
Says the St. Petersburg correspondent of
the S.M. Herald 44 The healbh of Baron
Maolay, which has been very bad, is mending, I
and he is now able to correct the proofs of his !
most interesting narrative, the publication of
which is expected with great interest. As bo
Lady Maolay, the severity of this climate does
nob appear to have any bad effect upon her. She
supports it admirably, and looks as well and
cheerful as on her arrival." Why, it was only
the other day that the Herald’s correspondent
explained to us at some length in the very same
column thab Monsieur Maolay wasn’t a baron at
all.
The Earl of , whose seat Is in the
suburbs of Liverpoo l , is a pronounced klepto-
maniac. His Grace’s particular weakness is for
old silver, and the greater its antiquity and
beauty, the more certain ib is to find its way into
his pooket. There is a story to the effeob that
when kneeling at the communion-table only the
ready hand of the reobor saved the quaint old
wine-oup from sliding up the earl’s Bieeve. Ib is
the duty of his valet to examine his master’s
clothes every morning, when he has dined out the
night before. Whatever is found is taken to bhe
countess, who returns ib to the owner, with a
pretty note of apology. The Earl is quite aware
of his unfortunate weakness, and has struggled
against it in vain. No fear of debeotives or ex-
posure makes heavy his light fingers, and ib Ib
said he will not trust himself to go alone to a
public sale where old silver Is displayed.
POLITI CAL
POINTS
Will Attorney-General Simpson go and do
like Wise ?
The Queensland “ Liberal ” wire-puller is
the biggest Chlnkie landlord In Brisbane.
Over 400 men are at present in prison in
Great Britain and Ireland as political offenders.
The Queensland Elections may be expected
by mid April. Protection and Nationalism will win
then.
The S.M. Herald correctly sums up the
Parkes' regime, by declaring it “ disappointing and
mortifying.”
Sydney D.T. says that Mr. Watkln has a
reputation to pledge. Well then, leb him go to
4 ' Uncle ” Abigail.
Cortis.M.L.A., of N.S.W., is abusing Mel-
ville, M.L.A. Strange to see a dootor and an
undertaker at loggerheads!
Melbourne Age now speaks of the Soudan
war as “ beginning in crime and ending in igno-
miny.” Behind tne Age as usual.
Between 1870 and 1880 the increase of
women operatives in the United States was 145
per cent.; in children 50 per cent.
Qaeen Victoda says (to oblige the Tories)
thab her heart bleeds for General Gordon and his
u n timely —bo o• ho a-— an iff— 3ob— fate.
Working men in London earning 12s. per
week pay 4s. in rent, and of this sum 2s, goes to
the ground landlord for doing nothing.
Sir Michael Hicks-Beach, late Irish
Secretary, has publicly “ renounced” Balfour and
his Irißh policy as too brutal for anything.
The men available for military duty
throughout the United States of America, consti-
tuting the national reserve, number 7,920,762.
The United States are going for a Central
American Canal of tbelr own. Ib is to pass
through at Nicaragua, and paralyse Panama.
“ The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres,
who was attired in full Highland costume,” says
an English print, 44 moved the Address in reply.”
John Bright’s political expenses have
always been paid by his electorate. And yet John
rolls his eyes In horror at a proposal to pay Ms.P.
A N.S.W. M.P. has suggested the ad-
vlsableness of having a ring within the preoincts of
Parliament House. But there is one already the
importers' ring.
The Indian Jingoes are trying to work up
a quarrel with the Thibetans and oollar the coun-
try in the grand old style. Grab and the Gospel
are England's glory.
“ You lousy Scotch coward,” “You measly
Scotch dog," “You cowardly liar,” 44 What about
your rotten tea i" &o , fco .—Extract from N.S.W.
Parliamentary report.
Rev. Mr. Kildahl, a Church of England
minister, has come oub to Australia to leoture
against the Irish Crimes Act. This is gall for the
Orangemen with a vengeanoe.
Two Bills to enfranchise women have
been given notice of in the Commons. Sir
Plagiarist Parkes will now, no doubt, introduce
a similar measure in N.S.W.
“Go outside and bark with the dogs,”
said Parkes to the electors at Liverpool. And then
he proceeded : 44 1 have been led off my §hain of
argument by these interruptions."
The British Tory Coercionlst majority of
120 has dropped as follows :—94 —81—47. Schnad-
Hnrst, the Llb*ral caucus man, believes a general
election would now return a GUdstonian majo-
rity.
“ Hi hask you as Her;gliahmen—hand you
bar hall Henglishouen, because >here his no tru*r
Henglishmen chan a true Hrsetralian—(uproar)
—whether,” &0., &o.—Premier Parkes at Liver-
pool, N.S.W.
People thirsting for notoriety can now get it
cheaply enough. In the ninth list of donations to
che Imperial Institute are these entries :—“ W.
N. Bell, Esq., 2s. 6d. ; Skelton, 2s. 6d. ; Brede
(Sussex), 2s. 6d.and so on.
The Chinamen settled round Tamworth,
N S.W., rent gardens and farms from the Peal
River Company—a syndicate composed of absentees
living in London, who own, in the district named,
3750 acre 3 of magnificent Australian soil.
“In virtue of its beloved name,” says a
South Melbourne parson, “ England wifi always
guard and keep Victoria.” It was, no doubt,
with an eye to the gua ding and keepirg of Vic-
toria that dear old 44 Hingerland ” placed Victoria
under Loch,
Adelaide imports last year are less by
£Bl,OOO and exports by £175 000. £175,000 worth
of raw material that would have gone for manu-
facture to England, to ba returned at a high price,
is now manufactured in South Australia, and the
total money retained this side of the sea.
The Salisbury Government is distributing
medals to the “ .. oyal Irish” constables for their
heroic deeds in evicting the peasants and quell-
ing riots of an unarmed mob in September last,
and Her Gracious has sent a “special mes-
sage of thanks.” And- thit is the country they
want us to federate with !
Here is the case of Protection in a nut-
shell. In 1828, the Rev. Robert Harris said, in
the course of a sermon at Oxford: — 44 The main
defect in England is from want of work. It is in
vain to speak of bringing down markets unless
there be employment. Were barley at 25., if men
have not work, ’tis all one.”
England made her manufactures by Pro-
tection till Bhe was foolish enough to think they
could stand the open competi ien nf the world.
To day Bhe is slowly finding ou-. her mistake when
Protectionist America and Protectionist Germany
are uncerselliig her in her own home market.
And that's the long and the si ort of the business.
It is cabled that St. James’ Gazette says
war is inevitable, and will con mince in May. tr.
James’ Gazette is a liitie Ttry rsg, which has a
clrcxliticn cf ever twoooiies nlgntly, sna is of
opinion that Gladstone is not) only a traitor hut a
blackguard. Htnte the Conservative cable - coi -
responpents of the Australian dailies tale ca T e to
advertise its opinions and prophecies.
The Doke of Sutherland owes 1,208,000
acres, and Ltrd Middletcn owns 1,005,711 acres of
the toil of Great Britain. Tnus between them
thiyownone tiirly-tixth of the whole land of
Gieat Britain and Tie.and. This sorb of thing
crowds op the other forty million Britishers a
goed dea 1 , and they have to sit on top cf each
other to give the two noble lords breatinng-io'm.
In a despatch from Bulgaria we read—
“An tmployd in the c ivil service dining at the
military club at Pciliupopulis made use of an
offens ve expression towards Prince Alexander of
Bnttenberg. A certain Major Pefoff mst.sntly
dew a revolver and shot him dead.” Now, had
tcis haprened in Englai d, that major would
piobffiiy have grasped that employ 6 by the hand
and asked him what solution he favoured, and
weu’d he take it tea’, and they would have
1 quored up with fears of sympathy in their eyes.
BaJgaria if n't civilised yet
We read that the Democratic Americars
celebrated Washington’s birthday recently by a
banquet at Delmonicos swml restaurant New
York, at 50dols a head. “Oa the outside of the
menu was a band-pa in ted representation of an
open fireplaco with a pot hanging over the fire.
To give a vivid picture of fire a large mby war
affixed to the card urder tho pot, and for the
flame of a lighted candle upon the mantel was set
a real diamond,” Yet these are the men whose
granefathers followed Lafayette to victory, and
hose fathers fought with Sherman and with
Grant,
In Staffordshire, the centre of the British
iron trade, the number of iron furnaces has de-
creased from 110 in 1862 041 in 18S8. Freetrade
has shnt up the other 69. And wnile men are
bring discharged in thousands because tbere i< no
work for them to do, it is casually remarked in
the Freetrade Press that the building of the new
Post-office at Doncaster Is temporarily suspended
because the iron girders have not yet arrived from
Germany. Even the new railway from Hull to
Barnsley, which runs through the very centre of
the British iron districts, is laid with German
rails, though the track is lined on both sides with
blast furnaces which are going insolvent for want
of orders, and the traffic consists mainly in carry-
ing protected German iron into what is at once
the greatest and the most impoverished iron dis-
trict on earth.
“ I can imagine,” writes William Morris,
in the Commonweal, “ some of our friends grin-
ning rather bitterly at the title of an article in
the current number of the Nineteenth Century,
4 How to live on £7OO a-year,' and thinking that
they would like to try the experiment. It should
be explained that the title ought to run, 4 How to
live in the upper ranks of the shabby-genteel on
£7OO a-ye»r.’ This is a different problem, and a
sufficiently tough one to those who are compelled
to live In this group of ours. The recipe for it is
much as follows: give away nothing ; let your
hospitality be merely conventional; take no
pleasure except for the sake of gentility ; never
buy a book ; look very sharp after your servant;
in short, repress every Instinct towards kindliness
and generosity, and you may cut quite a good
figure in the ranks of gentility, and be in fact a
fine specimen of the genus 4 snob.’ "
People very often imagine that the dis-
covery of a flaw in the working of a new move-
ment is an indictment past appeal against the
movement. Thus we are always having pointed
out in the columns of the Australian capitalistic
Press the fact that many woikmen when they
become rich are fiercer Tories than those born to
the purple. This is perfectly true, but it is a
charge against human nature, not against Demo-
cracy. Then we have leaders upon the “Weak
Point of Democracy " even In alleged democratic
papers. Haß autocracy not its weak point 1 Are
aristocracies invulnerable or oligarchies armour-
plated ? The capitalistic Press Is now chuckling
because George and M'Glynn have managed to
erect a misunderstanding between them on the
tariff question. But they need not chuokle so
loudly. The oause of Progress will go on. It
does not depend on George or M‘Glynn, or their
friendship, or the friendship of a thousand
Georges and M‘Glynns.


„//j# ,
wii U
"fill
/f/ fey’s
f/?/Sf/ y'erj/oy C)'ff- E-/L-L-y
' /ic(lonl'J(j io //term
2>!TTO £n<H-'SH Version
/■fin-ex.
- - \c »
r Off< l
r»* r J n J.e' cL
Y*y i t a 5
t*/
Tammany Hall, Sydney.


Wav oh ofi’ne jduL<'=sr'
7
vfAs Follow’ £o *ic> <fj£ Ci-tfß
h IC .^Y LAI O Af T'/c
OK£T £>A^, Too <fjfisD To " * &*4 >jts Jtf/rsr
-fW At!- VYA^
j3>o< joy kY/iS fpir <n £ / ljAO D,hf:rr>Bf)
Kfy<T OAy/ 'The v/*/)
Cy, Kj) S/it bOE.i'rfl'i/oO* ftt sjy
AN/. f^O’ v £ ,v •
A Warning to Insurance-Canvassers.


In the possession of a Burling face we have what is dearer
than the rarest ruby and this treasure is within reach of
most people. Hußbands who have failed to find all sweet-
ness in your partners, try first with iresenting t-e n with
something for their personal ado'L'.rnenc, then you tables,
sc., make beautiful. Br >y Bros., 402 and 404 George Street,
are dispensers of table and room adornments in China and
Glass *
PPPPTTTTPQ Tileae unsi Khtly subcutaneous dis-
I! XbJjU Ail XI Wi coloratirms can be effectuaHy eradi-
cated by the use of Clement s Frkcklebane, and by no
ether preparation. Harmless, safe, and effectual, Beware
of imitations which are useless. Sent post free on receipt of
2s. 10d.,N.5.W. penny stamnsor P. 0.0. by F. M. Cl.ments,
141 King-street, Newtown, Sydney, or from the City Agents l
W H Soul & Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Oiaremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private Medi-
cal and Surgioal Home, established by Hr Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both aeros.
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a oonstant medic®,l super-
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff,
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*
J. JB. Pack’s and Oo.'s Bangle Brand smoking Tobaooo la
the most delioious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
connoisseurs to be the most delioate in flavour. Prepared so
that the oombnstion is perfect Burns out to the lait
particle with pure white ash. Ty it
Society
At Borllla Station * Queensland, a few days
ago, Jeremiah, a dusky eon of the Roil, was
married to Emma, eldest daughter of Queen
Bungalley; The ceremony was perf rmed by the
Rev H. Shoalwat dr, and there was a large and
fashionable attendance. The happy pair wore
possum skins descending to their knees, and their
legs were painted white. The bridegroom had a
dingo’s tail round his head.
* * *
Her Gracious sends all her communica-
tions by special messenger, and when she wants
to forward a new yellow novel to an ambassador’s
wife at Constantinople a gaudy official has to pro-
ceed at full tear right across Europe, and the bill
—3ome £3O or £lo—is charged to the bleeding
country. Last January a messenger had to paint
all Europe red in his haste to get to tit. Peters-
burg, and yet, says Labouchere, he was only split-
ting the atmosphere with—a bustle and a pair
of garters.
ft st
One of the most attractive characters in
novels of sensation is the villain with a vein of
grim humour We forgive him his crimes for the
sake of his wit Such a character was the man
who, with an accomplice, was sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment in Melbourne lately, and re-
leased on appeal after depositing £2O. The first
use he made of his liberty was to call on a justice
of the peace and induce him to go to the gaol and
admit the other burglar to bail until an appeal
was also heard in his case. Sc that one criminal
under sentence was allowed to beoome bail for
another, who was thereby set free. This would
have satisfied the satirical tendencies of most
men. But it was not enough far this one. In
order to rub the satire in as much as possible he
gave his name a 3 Loch—not Smith, Brown or
Jones, but Loch. Tnat’s where the grim humour
oomea in. It is eafe to suppose that after this
gentleman has dene his “ two years’ stretch” he
will not be among the distinguished visitors at
Government House.
* * *
The holy Melbourne D,T, wants the Cen-
tennial Exhibition to open with “ a short religious
service.” Which reminds us that the D.T scribes
will be in the first flight if it does. They would
dot down the ame s and selahs while the profane
ouas from the Age would eat away half his penc l
wondering how the doooe they spell Beltesfcazzar.
* * ft
The other day, in a to wnship far beyond
the Blue Mountains, the parson, having completed
the service, wilhirew from the altar to count the
contents of the collection-pla e. Then he steppe l
on to the pulpit, and prefaced his sesmon by ac-
nouncitg that they were a mean lot and ight go
to smash before he would f ed his horse to canry
him and his iiible to their God feroaken and un-
charitable abode.
* ft *
At Her Majesty’s Tneatre, Sydney, ihe
other evening, t»a Ned Dr tjton clasped Rath to
his ample bozzam ia a blissful silence, whiie the
lights bucm dim and low and the girls in the
circle were sorry that pa and ma were along, too,
suddenly from the Cimmerian darkness of the
stalls arose an infant's wail in two sharps and an
accidental, and that silent audience lapsed into
one vast, meaningless grin.
ft ft *
There is a languid swell at present dawd-
ling in Sydney who is the —haw —heir to a
Spanish dukedom, dontcherknow. He doesn’t
bite, however, and is really free from vice, so we
fail to see why he shouldn’t go on dawdling round
the block as long as he wants to. Besides, he
doesn’t carry on iise the dukes we have elbowed
in Australia He never asks for a special up the
mountains, or for a free bod aud breakfaso at
Smith’s boarding-house, Inner Domain, as they
invariably do. It S3ems almost like a “ stretch,”
but we have really seen this aristocrat paying for
a ticket over to Melbourne ! ! On the whole, he
is a failure as a duke.
• # «
A ship is called “she 1 ’ because her rig-
ging is worth more than her hull.
* -v»
“ See here, waiter, how is it that I find a
trousers button in this salad?” “Oh, that’s part
of the dressing, sir."
ft ft ft
Legal opinion from an American paper :
“If you are a married man, your wife can com-
pel you to support her. If you aren’t, she can’t,”
» •
A man cut his throat the other day iu the
concert-room at Parramatta (N.S.W ) Asylum, A
local ten >r had jusc finished singing ‘ Come into
the garden, Maud.”
* # *
Writes the lady contributor of a Sydney
weekly :
I was with a boating party not long ago, and amongst us
we had some clergymen, as we sailed merrily over the waters
blue ; and I can assure you that these good men can admire
jauntily-fitting dresses on lithe figures quite as much as they
profess to admire the dry, unattractive beauty of spiritual
piety.
It is not often that* the clergy find themselves
given away in this fashion.
* ft
“ The audience imagines," said a young
aotrees recently, “ when they see a handsomel; -
dressed young man, good-looking, weil-mou-
Btached, and altogether stylish, fervently embrace
the leading lady of the company, that the kiss —
even though it may nob be given with genuine
feeling, must, nevertheless, be agreeable. Never
was there so fatal an error, or a supposition so
stupidly unwarranted by the real facts of the case
The first time I knew I had to be kissed on the
stage by the good-looking leading man, I was by
no means averse to it. I knew that the rdle
called for the hiss, and I was satisfied. Shall I
ever forget bnab kiss ! I think not; I found a face
beside my own, so besmeared with rouge, so in-
created wuh powder, so moist with cosmetic; that
I assure you it didn’t look tike a face. As I said,
this was rca ly my first stage-kiss The leaning
nun was French, ai d he had dined elaborately
on food exceedingly flavoured with garlic. I
remember I had to spring back after the embrace
and exclaim, ‘ How dare you insult me with your
kb sea! Give them to her who will appreciate
them.’ I made that speech from my heart. I
thoroughly meant what I said, and the effect
upon the audience wai excellent. Satge kisses
are generally disgusting. Of courss, sometimes
there are merely make bslieve kisses, but when
you are right in front of the audience that Is im-
possible. The audience may sometimes be shocked
at the apparent warmth of a stag.-, kiss, but they
would be more shocked it it were not given. A
man who is so enveloped in paint isn’t a n an,
You are me ely kissing a painted doll, with a
moustache so coloured by cosmetics that you are
in mortal agony lest it leave some trace on your
lily-white skin.”
* * *
The other day we read ia a Sydney paper
that a man had been brought up on his own con
fession, at Mortlake, for having committed the
mysterious murder for which, many years ago, a
young fellow named Edward Pook was tried in
England. We r<ad the statement with some in-
ter st, for it happened that we knew Mordake
well It subsequently turned out that it was not
Mortlake, England, but another Mortlake on the
Parramatta Rtvsr N. S. W The other day, also, we
received a card of invitation to “the Yorick Ciub, ’
which latter proved to be a Petersham (-ydney)
institution. The copyists who organised the Club,
unable to give it an original title racy of the soil,
had crossed the border of their colony and shame-
lessly anntxed the well-known and antique name
of the Yorick Club, Melbourne, and copper riveted
same on to their institution. This kind of thing
could only be done by commercial prigs devoid of
NINETY-THKEE DEGREES IN THE SHADE.
ACTOR (to scenic artist): WHY DOESN’T THE MANAGER PUT ON ‘RUDDY GORE?”’
S ARTIST: ‘OH H[?] FANCIES IT WOULD BE A FROST.”
ACTOR: “THAT WOULD BE THE VERY THING TO ‘FETCH THE CROWD THIS
WEATHER, YOU KNOW.”
sentiment, who wished to pose as “ Bohemians ’
—by young men whose literary stock-in-trade
consisted of a Bible and a ready-reckoner, or,
ma hap, of the ready-reckoner witncut the
Bible, Does the “Yorick Club, Pattrsham,”
need an original name? Very well, then—let
them call itself the Damper and-Mutton Club.
That name is original. It is also ustra.ian
A London military club has sent round a
circular to all the other clubs of the city asking
them to remove the Pall Mall Gazette from
their la des and shy the accursed sh. et to the
goats Also it is the desire of sassiety that the
paper should her ceforth be officially denounced as
only fit to be stamped on by hogs, that the office
should be sown with salt, and that jackasses
should tread the editor’s table underfoot. The
cause of this excitement lies in the fact that the
Pall Mall recently described Wales as being
“fat,” Wales is fat—for years he has been taking
things bo make him thin, and they have all missed
Are, or else they have rushed to his head and
made his hair come out, but loyal subjects are not
expected to recognise the circumstance that
Tummy’s clothes are strained to bursting point.
No man who regards Wales as fat shall enter the
Sweet Forevermore—or at least, if ha does get in,
there will ba a row of no ordinary dimensions
among the upper classes assembled by the Jasper
Sea.
A very psit-fal circomstatfce happen d to
a Sydney citizen tha other day, and if any oasu *1
pass r-hy caances tj see a man wita carnage in
h!» eye and a club in his right hand standing on
wharv s and railway platform?; and hungrily
wailing for bis enemy to fall into his hands anc
liave his eye swallowed, the signs are that it is
he. A few weeks ago hs had a wife and a bosom
friend and a happy home, but now he is a moral
wreck, with dander in his soul and sorrow prey-
ing upon his vitals. It is ali owiag to the bosom
friend. A few weeks ago that gentleman took
him mysteriously aside, and told him that he had
entered into a la ge coal spec. at Newcastle, and
that be wished him to go do vn there and descend
into the bowels of the darksome earth and report
upon it. He winked as he said -his, but his vic-
tim imagined this evidence of guile to he merely a
contraction of the muscular system or a spasm of
the back of the h ad, or something, and he went
dk« a lamb to the slaughter ana was betrayed.
There was no coal spec, at Newcastle, bat wh<-n he
landed at shat coaly city a detective sidled up to him
and told him >hat he was a fly old bird, a d a sly
dawg, and saveral other animals, bnt it wouldn't
do-really now. A this time of life he ought to
hs ashamed of himself to be going on like that,
a-desercin’ of his innercent, trusting wife —he
ought, indeed. Now, was he going to come along
qui-tly, or was he going to m«ke a scene ? While
he spoke he was gently shoving bis prisoner
towards the lock-up, and he continued to address
plaintive remonstrances to him as he backed him
into a cell and tuned the key on him. Various
other indignities were heaped upon him later on.
His wife sent down an affidavit tnat he was
making a brutal attempt to skip the colony and
had left her nothing but an umbrella to live upon,
and his bosom friend hired a lawyer to prosecute.
It was nearly a week before he got out, and then
he found that his frierd and his wife, after selling
all the furniture, had eloped together. Naturally
enough he has lost a good deal of his former con-
fidence in both of them and when he meets th
pair he contemplates demanding an apology.
He also regards it as unjustifiable in his friend to
borrow his shirts to elope in, and unkind on the
part ol his wife to chalk-up £lOO worth of mil-
linery to his acoouut so that she m*ght fl? in a
duck of a bonnet. He wants to know w=.y they
took his cigars and sold his dog and carried away
his slippers and dressing-go wd, and he poln-s out
that they left the gas alight alt over rh a house for
a week and nave made the fortune of the gas-
company at his expanse. Also what the dooce
became of the money he left behind for the rent
he can’t make out, and his dress-suit is gone, and
all the wine has been drunk, He objects to these
things.
* * •
Several of the professional beauties of
America and Europe bathe in milk to preserve
the beauty or their skins. Australian girls do
likewise, excepting in the depths of summer when
it’s cut off at the main.
* •
Mr. Siede and Miss Brains were united in
the holy bonds at Richmond (Yio.) last week
Woe's the day!
This thoughtless bride
Renounces Brains
To put on Side.
• •
Delicious item by lady contributor to a
Sydney daily paper :—“ It is stated In one of the
papers that Mrs Loftus, wife of Captain Loftus,
through financial exigencies is about to start a
I milliner a shop in London All who remunisr
the bright, pretty Miss will join in
wishing hr g tod la klaha• ne v venture. la i 3
quite be in Laadoa now-a days, when so
many of the nice peapie are very poor, for ladies
to put their shoulders to the wheel and assist to
increase the domestic finance -s. Tnose who can’t
contribute to the newspapers invariably open
shops.”
* * •
Two obviously aassiety adyt?. from the
S,M. Hbrald
'WILL the lady that left teeth in Hunter-street please
call at once.
Mr. Jamas W kindly send his address to
Rea r Eastway, jun., 413 Gsorge-stroet, in refer-
ence to padded figures.
* » *
The Pall Mall Gazette tells of a unique
kind of torture in London shops. In certain large
West End shops the female assistants arc all
doomed to a uniform size in waists, varying from
18 to 20 inches. Tall girls and stout girls, all
must conform to a measure at least six inches
below the natural size.
* * #
The holy Melbourne D.T*, organ of
Southern parsondom, says : “ Queensland shows
the highest marriage rate—no less than 18,4 per
thousand—a fact due probably to the fervency of
the Q < cent land climate." Marriages are male in
—Shed!
* * *
The other day the sick of Sydney Hospital
had a treat given them by the Government. One
gun was fired for every year of the late Emperor
of Germany’s life. But it helped to kill Sir Robert
Wisdom, and must have proved most horrible tor-
ture to dozens of obscure patients of whom
society ” i ever hears. Each shot cost about
30?., and sounded like the crack of doom in the
ears of some poor wriggling wretch or other.
* • *
This (from London) is the very epicure-
anism of dress !
Miss Levey locked very charming in a dress of light grey
satin veiled with a siogle over-dress of silk tulle ( f the same
colour. Round the edge of the skirt there was a thick ruche
of pale blush roses. The tulle was flacked over with single
petals of the flowers, as though the we. rer nad encrrantered
a rude little breeze which had somewhat scattered her flowers,
Down one side of the skirt there was a gr at full trail of these
lovely roses arranged without foliage, and m"re were prettily
plaoed on the bodice. Miss Levey s fan, too, made one break
the i enth Commandment. It, was m-deof long lovely blush-
pink ostrich feathers, mounted o.r fl .thing, Eheeny sticks of
mother-of-pead. Mrs Horace lawless gown was of the
SoiomoL and glorious order rather than of liiy-like simplicity,
but it was very lovely. Toe skirt was Gnelin blue brocade
on a ground of gold, on rather of blus shot with bullion so
plentifully that King Hal’s cloth of fo'd hadn't been in it
with it. The bodice was of the same beautiful stuff—let us
not call it material— he back and the trimmings of the
bodice were of the rt le-tinted terra-cotta winch gots so ex-
cellently with that shade of blue; the folds i f .heekirt were
furred back with broad lapels of velv.t several tongs darker
in shade.
Mrs. Horace Vowks ip, we presume, wife of
Mr. Horses Vowle?, the aciual editor of Labou-
chore's paper Truth Thete is nobody like t our
psuedo-Demoorat or Liberal for the erection of
Btatues of mud gib over. Eveiybody remembers
Gambetta with hi i big stomach That stomach
was the sci-ditant Socialist’s ruin. It’s master’s
vote could, always be bought indirecil; for a
series of times, Napoleon ht d a cancer
in his stcmach where Gambetta had only
an appetite. Hence the latter resembled but
the shadow of the little Corsican. Gait-
betta va3 ftnd of bathing, too. His tub was
mace of silver, richly ch«sfd No man who
bathes in a silver tub can ‘rule" a nation.
Talking of Gambetta’s b th reminds tn of Marat’s
tragic bath and the dt-ggar of Charlotte Cmday.
There is a palliation, however. These politicians’
names are insepa ably bath-antwiaed. In Aus-
tralia the polit cian in the sworn foe of the bath
and they sedom, very seldom, amalgamate.
[Very discursive. —2d. B,]
* « *
Somß months ego it was officially an-
nounced that the bustle was going. It is Btill
going ; in fact, it’s all the go.
» * *
Says a contemporary Tt ere was a
Jubilee Godiva procession at Covensry the o her
day. Lady Godiva was attired ns a countess of
the eleventh century, her dress being of cream
satin, with a riofcly-j swelled girdle round the
wakt.” How abstird ! The real Godiva was en-
veloped only in her sunbeam-coloured hair—that,
and her innocence. Her Impersonator put on
cream satin instead of tha latter, we expect. And
we never yet saw anybody in satin who was very
innocent.
* * *
The Duke of Edinburgh has withdrawn
his annual subscription to the Canterbury Hospi-
tal, and when the governors applied for an ex-
planation His Royal Highness stated that he was
merely cutting down unnecessary expenses.
Truth recently etved hat the Duke of Edin-
burgh has saved £400,000. —
* * *
Rupert Clarke, heir- apparent to the only
Victorian baronetcy, has duly expanded his mind
with foreign travel, and now his patent-leather
boot is on his native heath once more. Rupert's
wild oats—if he ever had any I—are sown, the hot
blue blood no logger courses madly through his
veins, and the harmless young man’s ambition is
to sport a round paunch, with good capon 11. sd,
also to .et off wise saws and modern instan s
from the seat of judgment. The baronet, to
desires that Rupsrt shad do his duty in that lofty
state of life unto which Divine Providence has
God bless our Sailor Prince !
(One- he came here on a visit,
And we’ve loved him ever since ;
Which is not surprising, is it?)
To that hospital in Kent
(Are we mad or in our senses !)
He won’t give another cent—
For he’s cutting down expenses.
Tol-de-rol.
They stuck him on the list
For an annual donation
(Alf. freely puts his fist
In the pocket of the nation) ;
But now he has a care
For the shillings and the peaces,
And that sum he oannot spare
For he’s cutting down expenses*
Tol-de-rol.
G od bless our Sailor Prince,
And keep him well and happy !
Sure, he daesn t matters mince—
He’s a bluff and honest chappy.
Others, wishing to be mean,
Find some drivelling pretences,
But this scon of the Queen
Says “ He’s cutting down expenses."
Tol-de-rol.


Longing After Light.
A ca-eful calculation of figures since Father Therry
began the old Cathedral 60 years ago shows that in and about
Si Mary's the amount of money subscribed for and expended
on different works (not taking into account the various items
of current expenditure and cost of general maintenance)
considerably exceeds a quarter of a million sterling —Sydney
Freemans Journal,
Dear Bulletin,—l have read the above carefully
and have considered and pondered over it and its
contrast, which is this Picture to yourself a
white (and long) hatred old Scotchman preaching
in the open air in summer and in hi 3 hot-house
(converted into a church) in winter, receiving no
salary, no stipend, but being possessed of a few
hundreds a year, spending his all on the poor.
■.This man exists. He lives near the falls of Clyde,
and for years in Lanark would not allow to enter
the Town Hall where he preached any woman
who owned a bonnet, or any mat who possessed
“Sunday clacV’ This Presbyterian’s principal
argument ia favour of openuiir service is drawn
from that part of the Bible which the Scotch have
(paraphrased thus
“ Where high the heavenly temple stands,
The house of Goi not made with hands, &3.
Now, the interest 0? £250,000 at a safe colonial
rate,'say, 6 per cent., is £15,000 per annum. With
compound interest it would be at least £30,000.
That would feed the poor of Sydney. As I have
headed this article, sol end it—l seek “Light,”
One word more. Both of the priests (of God ?)
mentioned are supposed to he worshippers, if not
followers, of one Jesus, a carpenter’s son. If the
Bom an is right the Calvinist is wrong, 'Where
slia'l I turn except to reason for guidance ? I
plump for the Scotchman, if compelled to vote.
Again if leaving rCasoD, I take the text-book of
both 'again I must choose the less pretentious
creed. °1 like Longfellow's description of the
way the Man of Sorrows stopped to heal Barti-
sus :
And he replied, "O, give ma light, u
Ribbi, restore the blind man 8 sight*.
And Jesus answered
I, Hiram Abiff, am now-a-days a hit shaky
in my Greek).— H. A.
Amonst the many improvements we have noticed in the
-11. v j g *hivt of the well-known and old-established Royal
Park Hotel, oorner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
Hoiif, Park. Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
spared no expense to make his hotel the first
In Sydney.*
Study your own Interest by using Pencil's Snow-whiti
Patent Roller Flour, It is made n the oolony from
the best oolonlal wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality ia exceptionally good, and the trice yery low.*
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED,
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS,
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments :
m and LESHLEITEE PIANOS,
Ike Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTEP & Co, AMERICAN ORGANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING ft GO , Ltd,
356 GEORGE STREET, three Doors from G.P.O
balled bim, therefore it came about that the
embryo noble was sworn in as a J.P.—Rupert
Clarke Esq , J.P - the other dar. Unfortunately
an incioenc of a distinctly painfal character casta
gloom over the ce emany. Rupert happens to be
a patrician who hash't any fair young brow worth
mentioning, and wno doesn’t otter large oppor-
tunity for phrenological investigatior. Pa has a
brow and a bald head—Rupert neither, at
present. The Claimant would set him down as a
man with “ plenty of money, but no brow,” you
understand. But to return to the painful inci
dent. When the newly-appointed heak went
forward, in Chambers, to be sworn, some-
body roared in an undertone, “ Who’s that
gentleman without the forehead ?” Daddy Lloyd
averted a panic by ordering, “Silence in the
Coort 1” otherwise a wild rush for the doors and
much loss of life mu3t have resulted. It is only
fair to say that Rupert behaved very well in this
matter. He looked kind o’ sad like for a minute,
but when he had raised hii hand to his forehead,
and found it wasn’t there, he departed like one
who has been listening to the blessed tarewth.
• *
Cricketer Bruca will take part in an im-
portant match on April sth, with a parson stand-
ing umpire. William is due to marry Miss Mont-
gomerie, daughter of the well-known Melbourne
brewer, on that date.
* * *
A man went into a butcher’s shop in Bal-
main last weak, and askad for a German sausage.
The butcher handed him a black pudding.
“What d’ye call this?’’ a ked the customer.
“This aint a German sausage.” “Yea, it is,"
replied tha butcher. “ It’s in mourning, you see,
for the Hemperor.” Fact.
# * *
“And so you are really engaged to Mr.
Sampson, Clara? ’ Mss Clara (blushing): “Ye*,
it all happened last evening, Ethel.” Miss Ethel:
“ What a blessing leap year is, dear !”
#*}•*•
Some of the testimonials forwarded with
the applications for the position of house-surgeon
to a Victorian hospital were decidedly original.
One ran thus :—“ I thank Dr. —■ for his atten-
tion to my late brother William and my recently
departed wife, and hope all patients will be as
well satisfied as I am,” The doctor who sent that
in as a recommendation was, beyond all doub*\ a
Scotchman.
* * *
The other day the foundation stone of the
Grenfell (V.S.W.) Anglican Church was laid, and
the same n’gbt the stone was lifted and the cash
removed from the cavity beneath. Oo ihe follow
ing day the Rsv. C vnon Wilson remarked, in the
course of his sermon, “ Judas Iscariot sold his
soul for 39 piecas of silver, but we have a man in
Grenfell so mean as to be willing to barter his for
the sum cf 13s 9|1.”
* * *
A French judge recently dismissed an
action regardirg a corset, thereby establishing a
valuable precedent in cases where human attire is
brougnt into court. The lady who ordered tte
corset raid It didn’t fit, and the woman who made
it said it did, whereupon the lady and the woman
both testified about the size of the lady, including
her lecgtb, breadth, and thickness, aid swore to
the way she bulged out and other things tf a like
nature, till the Court got tired of it; and de’ivered
judgment as follows :
Whereas the point at issue is whether the c rset in ques-
tion does or does not fit; whereas, to settle this qu r stion, it
would be neces;ary to h.v.-i the sa : d corset b; fre us, and it
hss not been produced in court: whereas, even if it were
pro iuced, it would have to be tried oa in our pretence ; and,
whereas, even than, to decide whether it fitted tha lady or
not, we should need special talents and faculties which ere
no; within our sphere—for these reasons, we proclaim our-
selves incompetent to settle the difference, and therefore dis-
miss the case,
• * *
There is a seamy side to being very rich
and veiy fat. A well-ad verWsed Potts Point
capitalist is so podgy that when he goes out he
has to travel in one cab while Madame follows
in another.
* * *
Wanted to know-which actress a certain
rich, young Sydney lawyer is not going to marry ?
According to report he has, at various times, been
engaged to the whole stage, and at latest advices
he was engaged some mere. It makes us tired.
Money.
Deak Bulletin,' —Reckoning money as a tally
of exchange* as lb Is supposed to be, Borne
very curious incongruities come to light. If
a man gives a bill; neglecting for the time Its
convertibility into State money, and negoti-
ating it simply a 3 negotiable in account, it is,
on the face of ib, his own acknowledgment, and
all he has to do is to render an equivalent. But
in order to give an acknowledgment in State
moiiey, he must first render a similar equivalent
to ths State, or to someone who has found a
quantity of gold or silver, and got the State to
mint it for him. And now reverting to the fact
that almost every acknowledgment is for State
money, and not substance—in a word is a tally
for a tally—it follows that ths great majority are
compelled to expend some service upon those
possessed of the tallies, in order to acquire the
mere record or tally of their services with one
anoher. In other word?, their energies are im-
pounded for the benefit of tallj-holaers before
they are allowed to devote any energy at all to
the purposes for which the tallies are required.
Again, in the case of indebtedness, the obligation
incurred is not to those who render the service,
bub to those who lend the tallies to acknowledge
it, and a cerbain additional number of tallies must
be given back. Hence the bilance is adjusted*
hot by equivalent service?* but by the number of
tallies ; and out of this arises the temptation, the
necessity, in fact, for depriving other persons of a
portion of their services without acknowledg-
ment in order to have the requisite number of
tallies to give back Toe obliges gives some of
his obligors as many acknowledgment*, only as
will enable them to tally off the mere necessaries
cf life, in order to pay others of them for the hire
“THE USUAL COURTESIES.” ETC,
THE EDITORS YOUNGEST: “PAPA, DO YOU EXPECT TO GO TO HEAVEN?
THE EDITOR (at home): “ WELL—UM—I CAN HARDLY SAY: THAT" SADIFFICULT!
YOUNGEST: “CAN’T SAY! WHY? HAVEN’T THEY SENT YOU YOUR 'RESS-
TICKET’ YET?”
of the tallies. Or he does so in order to reta'n
some of the tallies forhimself, and thus command
lurther services, as an obligor, instead of owing
them as what he really is—an obligee. And this
chaos of folly and fraud is what we call a civilised
social system!
-♦
The people of Great Britain are getting a thorough
hold of the big end of the stick. They are begin-
ning to discover that the land question lies at the
root of all class-government, and they are profit-
ing by their discovery. Too long have they been
hoodwinked by the manceuvres of party politi-
cians who raise questions to occupy the time of
the Legislature which can have no possible re-
ference to practical politics, and thereby manage
to throw dust in the eye 3 of the people’s represen-
tative!. Very slowly has it dawned on the masses
of England, Scotland, and ales that the struggle
for Home Rule in Ireland is not a racial but an
agrarian struggle. Amongst the Irish this is as
yet an undiscovered truth. Only the leaders of
the movement know that it would matter nothing
if the landlords were of the same stock as their
labour-sweated tenants instead of being aliens. The
rank-and-file of the Irish movement deify Arch-
bishop Croke and Michael Davitt in the same
breath that they curse Henry George and
Father M'Glynn, without perceiving that their
cases are identical. With the rest of the United
Kingdom this is not so. They everywhere
“drop” to the position and show them*elves
eager to follow Ireland’s example. The
Crofters of Skye, Lewip, and Harris Islands
have recently been imitated by the ratepayers of
London itself, and the Welsh have shown frequent
disposition to take up the cudgels of revolt. In
Wales, the struggle, if it ever developed into an
agrarian campaign like that of Ireland, would be
embittered by a religious grievance. Nearly all
the Welsh are Methodists. To enter an Episco-
palian Church is to them the hall-mark of eternal
damnation. Yet are they compelled to pay away
a tenth part of their substance to support what
they regard as devil-worship. When the reverend
land-shark cannot collect his sacerdotal black-
mail he puts his case in the hands of the police;
and the gentlemen in blue prance round with
their batons to gather in the tithes for the gentle-
men in black. In Anglesey, lately, great rioting
and fighting has occurred in consequence. It
would be much tester if peasant and police com-
bined to trout:ce the parson, instead of the peasant
and police trouncing one anolher for this ecclesi-
astical individual's peculiar benefit. But, prob
ably, they have not yet risen to this stage of social
development, and when they do rise to it the well-
paid, lazy parsons may be about as extinct as the
moa or the megatherium If people reflected at all;
what a farce the whole thing would seem, and wbat
a reduclio ad absurdum of all the main principles
of Christianity ! The followers of the meek and
lowly Nazarene, who were told to take no scrip
and no thought for to-morrow, hesitate not in
this Nineteenth Century to call to tlieir aid
the trunchean of authority, and trail in the dust
of ridicule the principles they pretend to follow,
They are continually paraphrasing the words of
their Master, though they imitate not His life:
“I come to bring not peace on earth, but a police-
man's waddy.”
+
“It will, doubtless, ever be true that poverty
walks in our midst,” says the smug Melbourne
Daily Telegraph, the organ ol the parsons.
“ It is a law from which there is no escape ; and
looked into with keener vision, it may be dimly
perceived that that law is not without its benefi-
cent meaning,” We can fancy the reverend party
who wrote the article from which this slab of
cheerful wisdom is taken, gently stroking his
rotund stomach with the palm of his podgy hand
and smiling affably to himself as he rounded off the
sentence. What we would like to see .just now
would be a parson with a vision keen enough to
see the beneficent meaning of poverty when
applied to himself. We have met with one
or two, but that is all. Poverty is good
for the poor—that is the good old maxim
of the parsons and the priests whose
mission on earth has always been to make the
poor think they will be able to go into Heaven on
a free pass while the rich howl in vain outside.
In the meantime the rich keep possession of the
earth which is a sure thing, anyhow. Are the
priests and the rich not nefariously connected
We would smilb enigmatically. But, thank the
Law of Change, nothing lasts forever.
♦
The Sydney D.T. in a leading article on the
Trades Council which lately sat in Brisbane rose
in its republican might and administered in the
following words a severe rebake to Queensland
Griffith and the imperialists :
Probably many of the delegates who expressed themselvei
in fav ur of separati g from the Empire rather than be
compelled to receive the Morse in Australia may know
that on the pa>t of the Imperialist party, ef which Sir
Samuel Griffith is a member, the offer has been made of
the northern half of Australia to China as the price of alli-
ance with England,
Probably the delegates do know it. It is pro-
bable also that some of the delegates know that
the Sydney D.T. is pledged to support the policy
of Free-trade, which is, in Australia, whether
lightly or wrongly, an anti-Democratic policy and
a leading plank of the Imperialistic platform.
The delegates may likewise ieoollecb that Sir
Henry ParkEs, the white-maned fetich of the
D.T s. adoration, Is an Imperialist. He never
loses an opportunity to drivel over “the loved
mother country.” Recently he engineered
through the N.S.W. Parliament a measure
which Griffith was powerless to engineer
through the Queensland, viz, the Naval
Defence Bill, Almost immediately after this
Bill had been manipulated into law in New
South Wales, Sir Henry Parkes received the
price of his treachery to his country- an Imperial
decoration: a G.C.MiG.ship, The D.T. is In a
delightfully funny position to cast a brick at
Griffith. It supports Freatrade, it champions
Jingo Parkes, the Imperialist who sold his
country aid then took a decoration 5 it upholds
the policy of Pawnbroker A big ail and it flourishes
the standard of the shoddy ring of anti-Australian
importers.
*
Dennis Kearney* the*well-known Amerioan agi-
tator, recently gave Father M‘Glynn a chunk of
advice which is well worth considering by some
of our own universal philanthropists* when he
said —“We can't very well reform all the world
at once. We must take it piece by piece." Not
only Henry George, but many other Land
Nationalists, forget this truth when they clamour
for the throwing open of our markets to the com-
petition of the world. The effect, as Kearney
points out, would be to establish equality among
working men all the world over, and the Austra-
lian doesn’t want equality with the four-shilling*
a w»ek Chinaman at present. Universal Free-
trade means that every man must ultimately
stand on the same wage-level as his neighbours,
and if 3,000,000 Australians can’t hoisb 400.000,000
Chows up to the ! r own standard, then they mast
go down to the yellow man's level and stay there
till the y ellow man rises,
The rights (f public meetings are now a thing of
ihe past in Sydney, New South Wales, If they
ever existed, they exist no longer. The work of
the ' stamping out” Tories of Jubilee and Bxhi*
bltion Building notoriety bears fruit, and that in
an unexpected quarter. The other night a public
meeting was convened to c insider the adoption
of a manifesto for the Sjdoey Lard Nationalisa-
tion Lesguc, The chair was taken by a clergy-
man of alegcd liberal ten den cite. The value of
his adbeie ce to ar>y cause can readily b 3 gauged
by the fact that he publicly announced that “It
was only after haring been assured by Mr.
Fox all that it was not essential that the chair-
man of the meeting should be a thorough believer
in land-natioral'eariou. that he consented to pre-
side.” In another part of hij address he
admitted that he had “read thtough the
most s and ud works of Henry George, ’although
“h> was not in favour of land nationalisation
yet ’ —in other wore a, the reverend gentleman
was anxious to c.nvey that he was a trimmer and
a temporistr Provided it could be shown that
the cause of land natlonali alien “ was coming,”
ha world jain P, mayhap do it the honour of
heading it. He was waiting to see upon which
side the cat jumped. With such a chairman one
is prepa T ed to hear of any hind of unfairness, and
before the meeting tLded the Rev. Mr. Jackson
lad an opportunity of displaying his notions of
liberalism. Mr. W. W. Collins decided to move
.an amendment, but he was greeted with cries of
“ Sis down ; we don’t want to hear you! ’ Mr. Col-
lins made another effort, but “ was immediately
howled down.” Mr. Collins made yet another
effort to be heard, but in the language of the
paper aforecited, “the audience reiuitd to hear
him, and he gently collapsed." The chairman
made no effort to s;cure fairplay, or to enforce
tte right of any person desiring to make himself
beard in a place of public meeting , which it was
his manifest duty to do. But the most disgusting
ruing about it is the approval with which an
alleged enlightened paper quete3 the brutality
and noisy behaviour of the people to whom It re-
commends us to look for the accomplishment of a
great reform.


THE WALLED-IN ROOM.
BEING THE TERRIBLE ADVENTURE Off AN
IRISH NATURALIST.
I opened my eyes and looked around me. A
man was leaning over my bed; near the man
stood a woman with a bonnet with great white
winga on the sides, holding in her hand a moist
compress. The room was plain and neat, with
clean white walls. On a table, covered with a
great napkin of yellow linen, I noted a number of
strange objects—rows of little vials, and a brown
earthen jar filled with bits of ice. Through the
muslin curtains, which bellied out from the win-
dow in the balmy air, I could see a patch of blue
sky and the tops of green trees banding lightly in
the breeze. Where was I ? It seemed like a long
dream that I had had ; my head felt empty, my
limbs ached, and I could not think.
The man gently lifted my head and gave me a
few drops of some liquid, which I swallowed with
avidity.
“Well, Mr. Furnis 3 ,” he said, “how do yon
feel? ’
“ Eb, what?’’ I cried. “ Where am I?”
“ You a-e in my house, my dear sir, and we
shall take good care of you, Now,” he added,
replacing my head on the pillow, “ Da quiet and
go to sleap;”
I gazed at him for a long time, and all at once I
recognised Doctor Bertram, the celebrated special-
ist in insanity. A shuddar passed through my
frame. Why was lin Doctor Bartram's hospital,
instead of in my home, near Paoealx Park, with
my books* my herbs, and my microscopes around
me ? His hospital was farmadpeople I—and1 —and th at
Sister of Charity, those vials, that bowl of lea —
my God, I muse Da mad ! But why?—how?
“How long have I besn hera?" I asked, after
a time.
“ For four weeks, Mr. Furniss But you must
be quiet and sleep. Now do not try to talk,”
For a month! Was it possible ? What had
happened? Bat even a 3 I asked myself thesa
questions, little by little I went off to sle3p, and I
Baw, in a billowy msadow, a road covered with
blood and bordered on either aids with monstrous
microscopes ehap3d like traa3, a road on which
two little girls played at pitch and catch with a
severed head, while Doctor Bertram, comically
bonneted with a religious cap, rode astrlda of a
dead body, which reared, and prancad, and kioked
till he ooaid scarce keep his saat.
The next morning I
was better : and day by
day I improved, though
that horrible nightmare
came to me each night.
But It grew less and les3
distinct, and in a few
weeks it almost ceased to
trouble me.
One evening the doc-
tor, whom I had not
Eeen during the day
seated himself near my
bed.
“ Well," said he, feel-
ing my pulse, ‘ ! you are
doing famously. I'll have
you out as good as new,
in a few days. But
you’ve had a close (have.
It has been one of the
prettiest cases of cerebral
con gestion I ever handle d
•—a beautiful case. Why,
it’s a wonder you are
alive now. Tell me, how
is your memory; can
you remember what hap-
pened before you were
brought here ? ’
“ I—l don’t know, I
cannot think. I have
passed through some-
thing fearful. What it is
I cannot say. From the
faint glimmer of recollec-
tion that comes to me,
I have the sensation of
having been dead —mur-
dered ! Ob, It is fright-
ful. My brain is weak
yet. Tnen, the child a
pretty golden - hair ed
child rolling on the
floor."
“Come, come, this will never do, said th
doctor. “You can tell me all about it in the
morn ”
“No, now, doctor,” I cried, “lb is coming
back to me. Yes, I have it now.”
Here is an exac, transcript of my recital as I
told it to Dr. Bertram and, later, to the magis-
trate.
You know my passion for natural history. Well,
scarcely a week passes that I do nob go into the
country botanizicg That day I went to Glasnevio,
where, as you know, the marshy meadows are
rich in curious plants, iafu3orla, and diatoms.
I was returning, and was almo3t in Dublin with
my box full of rare specimens, on which I ex-
pected to make a report that would astonish the
Botanical Society, when I saw a little girl, cer-
tainly nob more than five or six years old, who
was all alone, crj iag ss it her little heart would
break. I approach d her, ban at sight of me she
redoubled her cries. I could see that the little
one was los h , and that she did not know where t>
go, so I spoke to her kindly, and, by dint of pro-
mising her unlimited bonbons, g )t her to t?ll me
that her name was Liz fie, and that she lire d near
Beresford-plaoe in Lo wer abbey street. I took
her hand, and we sooa started off, talking together
like old friends, she was a .beautiful child, fresh
and rosy, with great, candid eyas and fair hair,
which was cut shore over her ejes and fell in
golden ringlets about her shoulders. She trotted
bravely along, her soft, little hand holding my
great, ruddy paw confilingly. As we walked she
told me remarkable tales, in which figured a big,
black horse, a little knife, a doll, and a number of
people I did nob knew.
I Lizzie was afraid she would be scolded when
she arrived home, but she was not, and I —l was
received with transports by her mother, who was
half distracted. Never was gratitude expressed
so heartily and pleasantly. Who was I, where
did I live, how did I happen to find her, and a
thousand like questions were showered upon me.
‘ Ob, Mr. Furniss,” said the mother, “you are
the saviour of my child. How can we express
our gratitude 1 We a e not rich, but such a debt
cannot ba paid in gold. How happy my husband
will be to repeat my thanks to you. He Is still at
his offioe, but—will you do us a great kindness,
will you honour our humble board ta-morrow ? I
shall have a savant here like yourself, and you
two will enjoy each other’s company, I am sure.
And my husband will be so happy to have yon.”
I thanked her for the invitation, and promised
to be on hand.
At the appointed hour I was shown into their
modest parlour, and you may be sure the hus-
band’s gratitude was no less warmly expressed
than the wife’s. And little Lizzie threw her arms
around my neck, and showered on me the inno-
cent caresses of a happy child. I seemed, Indeed,
to be ore of the family.
The dinner was a merry one, the savant Beemed
to be an interesting man —In brief, I passed an
excellent evening.
The air had been heavy the whole day, and In
the evening a storm came on. Thunder-claps
succeeded one another without Interruption, the
rain fell in torrents. Whether it was the effect of
the storm, of the suffocating heat, or of the wine
I had drunk, I felt a strange melancholy, I could
not breathe comfortably. I was about to set out
for home; however, for it was late and my house
was at soma distance; but they insisted that I
should stay. It would be foolish to expose myself
to suoh a tempest, when I was not feeling well;
the mother begged me with such a goad grace that
I felt f orc3d to remain and pas 3 the night in that
hospitable house. They ceremoniously conducted
me to my room, and there wished me good night.
I remember, even, that Lizzie having fallen asleep
ia her father's arms, I kissed her little cheek,
paled by sleep, and her dimpled little arms.
Left alone, I bagan to undress slovly; and
wandered about the room, as one always does
when one sleeps In a strange place, I felt as if I
should smother in the close atmosphere of the
room. Before getting in be 3; I - wanted to inhale
a little of the outside air, and in spite of the roar-
ing storm, I tried to open the window. It was a
false window.
“ Well, well! ’’ I exolaimed, a little surprised.
I thought I would remove the ohlmney-soreen ;
it was a false ohimney. I rushed to the door—
it was loeked! Fear seized me, and, holding my
breath, I listened, Tne house was quiet, all
seemed to be asleep. Then I inspected the room
carefully, straining my ears for the least sound.
On the floor, near the bed, I noticed spots ; it wa3
blood —dried and blaekened blood ! I Bhnddered,
and a cold sweat stood out on my forehead.
Blood! Why should there be blood there? And
I saw that a whole sea of blood must have been
spllo there for a great space around, the hard
wooden floor had been freshly scrubbed and
scraped. All at once I cried out. Under the bed
i had seen a man, stretched out, motion-
less as an overturned statue. With trem-
bling hands I touched the man. He did
not move. With trembling hands I pushed
( wn i 7y/S/y /S/
i £ Fl ■ r * 7!mC /"•' .*
n
<,<?**& . V'/fiL <OK Volf
iftP Jf'Sr 4S /y/\r<p/
> W/o/re
S/x Months 1
YOU’RE ANOTHER!
the man; he did not move. With trembling
hands I seized the man by thB feet and drew him
forth —he war dead 1 His neck had been cleanly
cut, as with one stroke of a razor, and the head
held to the trunk only by a slender ligament.
I thought I should go mad. But something must
be done —the assassin might come at any moment.
I raised the body to plaoe it on the bed. I made a
false step, and the livid head turned over, swung
te and fro for a moment like a hideous penda-
lam, and then, detached from the trunk, fell
on the floor with a dull sound. With great diffi-
culty I in rodueed the decapitated trunk between
the sheets, I pieked up the head and placed it on
the pillow like that of a sleeping man, and, having
blown out the candle, I slipped under the bed, I
did all this mechanically, without thought ot
defence or safety ; io was instinct that prompted
rue, not intelligence or reflection,
My teeth chattered. My hands were web with
a thick moisture. I felt as it I had gone to bed in
a charnel-house,
I remained there, in that awfal fear, minutes,
hours, months, years, csnturies—l do not know
ho v long, I loot all idea of tine and plaoe. All
was silent. From without the noise ot the storm
and the whistling of the wind came to me softened
and sad, like moan*. I could not picture to my-
self the assassin who was coming—who was there,
perhaps la that state of horror I could see only
little Lizzie fair, rosy, and frank, with her doll
and her great hat; I could see her sleeping in
her father's arms; now and then she lightly
raised her eyelids and disclosed her eyes, which
seemed to me to be bold, implacable, oruel, mur-
derous.
The door opened, but as softly as the scratching
of a mouse. I bit my ltp3 till the blood came, to
keep from crying out. Now a man stepped in
with gliding tread, with infinite precautions to
avoid touching the furniture. It seemed to me
as if I could see the cruet, clutching fingers gliding
over my clothes, searchiog my pockets. Then the
steps came nearer, seemed to graze me, I felb
that the man was bending over the bad, that he
struck one fierce blow. Then I knew nothing
more.
When I recovered consciousness, the room had
become silent again. But fright held me nailed
to the spot. At length I decided to escape, with
what caution you may imagine. On tiptoe I
gained the door, which had not been closed. Not
a sound, not a breath. Feeling my way, I passed
into the hall. I waited to see a head thrust sud-
denly from oat the shadows, a knife gleam in the
dark. But no—the brute, glutted with crime,
slept without remorse. I descended the stairs,
drew the bolt of the door, and, half fainting with
the blood frozen in my veins, I fell into the gutter
of the deserted street.
Dootor Bertram had listened to my recital with
the deepest interest.
* ‘ And there I found you, Mr. Furnlss, and in
what a state I Could you recognise the house ?’’
“ Yes,” I replied j “ but to what end ?”
“ Well, let me cure you; and then we shall go
together to the house of these assassins.”
Eight days later, the dootor and I stood in
Lower Abbey-street I recognised the terrible
house. All the blinds were drawn ; in front of
the door a placard was placed, bearing the legend:
“ To Let.”
I inquired of the former residents from a neigh-
bour.
“Iheyhave been gone a month or more,” she
replied. “It’s a great pity, for they were very
nice people."— Translated from the French of
Octave Mirbeau.
The “ Vagabond ” alludes to Bill Hollo-
way’s step-daughter as “ Sweet Miss Essie
Jenyns." We were pretty far gone ourselves, but
we never got quite so far as that.
There was a little adverse criticism of his
Liverpool speech, and Sir Henry announced that
he was very unwell. The storm has blown over
and the Freetrade press discovers that “ his indis-
position ” was not “ so serious as was at first sup-
posed.” Bismarck had no desire to put in an ap-
pearance during the coronation festivities of the
Em par or Frederick of Germany. He announced
that he was ill. He always adopts this course if
there is a fuss on the carpat. Some people call
Parke 3 the hairy Bismarck. This is probably the
point of resemblance alluded to in the sobriquet.
“ Breechloader,” in a letter of singularly
unique idiotoy, evidently written in all serious-
ness, to the S. M. Herald, advises the N. S. W.
Government, as soon a 3 war is declared between
Great Britain and some foreign power, to “ pur-
chase a dozen fast steamers of 300 tons, convert
them into gigantic torpedoes by placing 100 tons
of gunpowder in their bows (the steamers to be
dividid into many water-tight compartments), the
vessel to be steered and the gunpowder exploded
by one man in a bullet-proof tower at the very
stern, mock man being stationed about the ship to
draw the enemy's fire from this particular turret."
“ Breeohloader ’’ is “convinced that this plan
could be cheaply carried into effect, and that there
would be hundreds of applicants for the honour of
steering these vessels against an invading fleet.’’
In the case of an attack by land, he tells the
people of Sydney that they may “safely ” place
their destinies in the hands of Majir-General
Richardson, especially if his aotions are not ham-
pered by excessive political interference.
Sydney D.T. says that “the promotion
of Dr. Ruble, a native of Sydney, to the editorial
chair of the London Evening News is a flattering
instance of the success of young Australians in
England.” This is another aspect of the beauty
and holiness of drawing closer the bonds that
conneot us with the “ dear old mother country,”
&c. Australia is sunk low, indeed. If soma
seedy, needy politician, with the social prestige of
an ex-shanty-keeper and the moral reputation of
a cattle-duffer, goes to England to learn the
market quotati n for treachery and receives as the
price of his corrupt vote a paltry K C. M G. -ship,
we smile over the “honour’ 1 done to Australia,
The appointment of Cardinal Moran to the see of
Sydney was quoted as an honour done to Aus-
tralia by the Pope. Bah! It was only
his Holiness’s cffioial recognition of the faot
that Australia was worth looting in the
name of the Church. Dr. Ruble sucoeeds
Frank Harris as the editor of a wretchedly
intolerant and blatant Tory print. And this
is called Australian success ! Grovel now
takes the place of patriotism, and the syco-
phant is elevated into a hero. People that babble
in this way ought to recollect that nowadays
anybody can “ succeed” who is sufficiently sub-
servient. The motbo of the present day should be
“Nothing succeeds like subserviency.” Frank
Harris, the man whom Dr. Ruble succeeds as
editor of the London Evening News, is an Irish-
American, who was associated with Chamberlain
and Dilke in the production of the “ Radical Pro-
gramme” during Joe s celebrated “ three-acres-
and-a-cow” crusade. Ha deserted his party and
joined the Tories for “social” bribes. The
Evening News (a halfpenny paper) has been a
dull and dismal fai’ure since its birth, and has
only been kept allvo by means of the Tory feeding-
bottle.
THE BULLETIN (Published at) Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
Democracy as the Australian National Creed,
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land,
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A united Australia and Protection against the
World.
The Election by the Australian peoples of the
Governors of the Australian colonies.
The Bulletin denounces —
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news*
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals tp the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact—easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most-
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable atriotly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to
whom all remittances are payable. Editorial-
communications to be addressed to J. F,
Archibald.


Centrally
situated
, and
ACCESSIBLE
toauthe lcadmc
BUSINESS
HOUSES
fN THE
CITY
DANIELLS IMPERIAL NOTE
BRISBANE
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
4 HOTnsouTH
47 IJ* I OF THE
EQUATOR
£2
OLl^
M
1/1110
UJ
illirin
:: I
£?&
i
*
M
il
i
ranClMi
m\li
%
■HUiiiinniiiiii,
gj
DAN
c.H
LL
M
TURE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATUM
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room auacM for the couTenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a magnificent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Gold Plunge and Shower Baths. US’ COMMERCIAL ROOM.
Itatlemn’i Smoking* Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letter! and Telegram! applying for Apartment! will receive prompt attention.
o. h. RAjrmiu
MOTTITT .
QHIIHSL&HD TaTIOML HOIIL
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, *nt
Is now ready for the reception of vlelton
Every comfort. Cellar stooked with best brandi
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprletr n
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
COLD-WATER SO IP.
Trade Mark —“IMPERIAL."
All Grocerp, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 CIARENOE-STREET.
QRIIIRIO M THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Hr. John Solomon
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
GR iND COMEDY SEASON.
TRIUMPHANT SUC 3E3P.
SYDNEY ENDORSES THE VERDICT
of
LONDON AND MdLEOURNE.
SOPS I A,
A GIGANTIC SUCCESS.
THIS and EVERY EVENING
until further notice,
SOPHIA
with its
INCOMPARABLE SCENERY.
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
Alhambka music bali,
Qeorge-street, Haymarkeb.
Proprietor end Manager M «. Mr. Frank Smith
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.80,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 88 Performers, 88 Performers.
Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin,
Sittings as Usual.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE,
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7.i Performance 8. j Carriages 10.80
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prloes, 55., Bs., 35., Is.
Box Plan at Nloholson's and Co.'s.
J, P. MACDONALD, Aotdng Manager.
SHFIELD RECREATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING-
SKATING. SKATING.
SKATING. SKATING
The largest and finest Skating Rink In the Colony,
Large stock of new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admission: GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole illuminated by Electric
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
MR. E. LAWLER, the favourite Tenor Vo
calls*-, bfgs to announce that he will be
OPEN ffr ENG IGEMENT after March 31, 1888
Concerts, Operas, and Piivate Partie3. Terms,
Queensland Club Hotel, Castlereagh-Btreet.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office,
Alhambra musio hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington,
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER
THIS GREAT MIN-TREL COMBINATION
keeps movlrg along
Adding Saccessonthe Topofour Previous Succts?.
I<T OUR THIRD YEAR
IN OUR IEIRD YEAR.
EViIRY EVENI' G
AUSTRALI A’S QUEEN
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
Orohestra Chain, 3s. j Stalls, ls.j Balcony, Bd
O
PE R A
HOUSE.
Lcs ee and Manager F. E. Uiscocks.
Manager (for Mr. Kennedy) H. P. Lyon?.
CAUGHT ON
EVERY EVENING at 8 0 CLOCK,
PROSE'SOR KENNEDY,
The EIGHTH WONDER
and
The KING LAUGH-MAKER
Of the World,
la the Greatest Mesmerio Entertainment ever
witnessed in Sydney.
120 LAUGHS IN 120 MINUTES (guaranteed).
Prices -I?., 3s , and Is. Box plan at Nicholson's.
Manager, L. J. LOHR.
X A L
Thbatkb ho
Under the Direction of
MoiKli Williamson, Garner, and MnigrOTOi
Lessee, Mr. Sam, Lasar,
WILLIAMSON, GARNER, and MUSGROVE’S
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
have achieved another veritable triumph In
ERMINIE, ERMINIE, ERMINIE.
Prices » —Dress olrole. 6s.i Stalls. Bs.i Circle. Is.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD,
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railway
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less than two mi'e3 from Menangle
Station, divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AREA, 2063 ACRES.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intf ndlng departure from the
colony, to submit to auction, at their rooms, 130
Pitt-street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th AprP,
at 11.30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers oan unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly
improved properties ever submitted for sale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have bsen cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Sea*\
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE'S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUSE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuTdinge,
stabler, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &c , &c. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&c. Elevation above sea level about 600 It.
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains,
*,* It being impossible within tba limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MOUNT GILEAD, a descriptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate will be submitted In one lot, and
3hould the propiietor fail to obtain a price com-
mensurate with the value of the property, it will
then be submitted aslper Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 50 ACRE 3 to 400 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspect at any time upon
arranging with either; the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALK,
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
the BRIGHTON OB’ IT.EkW.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquet®, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, fco.,are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the baloonles the magnificent view of the eeaand surrounding country}
here also you can have good company, good wines-In faot, everything that can Possibly makeone
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties **>**£•
de Hott at 1 o’dock dally and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her vial
tors oomf or table, and her Hotel the best In the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH MANLY
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION,
SYDNEY, 1888.
o : o
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
WILL BE OPENED on WEDNESDAY, 14th MARCF, at Nood, by hla Excsl ency the
Bight Hon. LORD CARRINGTON, G.0.M.G., &c , G<Wernoi of New South Wales
Leon Caron s Centenary Cantata, expressly composed for the opening of the Universal Centesa-y
Exhibition, will be performed. Admission, Is.
At 8 o’clock a GRAND PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY by C. T. Brock & Co , of the Crystal Palace
The Grounds’will be brilliantly illuminated with Ih .usatds if Vauxhall lantenQB -
- Corceit will be given by the Cen enary Universal Extobdkm Band. geci tary
CENTENARY UNIVER3AL EXHIBITION HORTICULTURAL FETE-15*, 16 di 17th instant.
Application Forms from H. B. HAKuI, secretary
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echucfa,
T7"ictoria^
THB CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
1b the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort In the Colonies*
The Hotel contains 05 Rooms, Large Dining
p*n, Ladles Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention,
First-class Hotel Service. Accommodation for
100 Quests. Gas, Eleotrio Bells, Billiards, Bal-
oonles, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ik. B. Sjtiritj 8 B«.,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
mmquaStyWar, pipe offered to
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS CHMIDT & 00,
231 CLAR3NCE-BTREET.
OED. GBD.
PIPE3*to h'™d STSSSto? Sb’pm«nW N coming forward
COOGKK PALACE AQUARItf2£. BATHS,
and PLEASURE
GIGANTIC SUCCES3 of the PALAf
SKATING RINK.
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is. Children half-prioe.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
THB PALACK * HOTEL, KCHUCA, la the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Rlverlna Diatrlot. Mr, J, H, B, SPEAKING’S
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer Is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments, Private and Publlo
Baths. Aloook’s Billiard Table. Largest Baloony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids.
J. B. B. Spiting,
PROPRIETOR.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
VISITORS pationising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modem improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, Shower
and needle baths, passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. , Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
modera' e.
PETER WOODS, Owner and Proprietor.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
KVHRY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.80.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
of Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Stsonqist,
-Under the Conduotorshlp of Mr, Chab, Austin,
' - flrounfla, Is. Children free,
FRANK SMITH, DiraoHl,


THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Via,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guaranteed Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.8., Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES of interest for LONG TERM
,d«poi-its.
BANK DEPO3IT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under 12 months,
DEBENTURE BONOS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or regis'ered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HAjjF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on its e- tire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of thr*e years and upwards
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in B nk Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years "1 With Cash Bonus if renewed
£6 ~ „ 12 montfcs lat she rate of £1 per ce> t per
£5 ~ ~ 6 months j annum, or withdrawable on
£4 ~ „ 3 months J notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for PamDhlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices : Corner King and E.izabeth
streets.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
fRATG UTKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR MER-
CHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George-street, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock renlete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &o
CRaIG & AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash,
SPECIAL LINES.
/wwx.
fpl!
I v \ i '
Jii
■ 11
l i
111
III! |
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING,
la still the most popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG, AND AITKEN.
FINE * ROM ATT C VULCAN RUBY, lls., 145.,
p.p.'s, 75.: TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American), finely flavored,
best value in the market. Jib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
Ci'T, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREV*S, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality!
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Speoial attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cos". Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inoonvenienoe and delay Orders enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address j
CRMS ft AITsE ',
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of H drdrersing Requisites,
680 ar.d 682 George-ptreet,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
dole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.
Satisfactory Item from> the far-back Bre-
warrina : John Brown has been fined £3O for sly-
grog-selling, and the informer has been gaoled
two months for larceny.
Time is Money.
Time and money will be saved by keeping Dr.
bkll’s bitters in the house, I: is an invaluable
remedy for all disorders of the kidneys, liver and
bowels, and for all diseases arising from obstruct-
ions of these organs. It has cured many obstinate
cases after hundreds of pounds had been paid to
phjsicians without obtaining relief. It cures
constipation, piles, biliousness, and all kindred
disorders. Keep it by you.
Are you suffering from liver disorder, pains in the side Or
under the shoulder blades, foul tongue, or biliousness?
Are you suffering from nervous weakness and feel
unfit for your daily duties ? If so go to your chemist for
Dunstone’s Compound Essence of Dandelion &nd
Liver Pills, and you will get insta t relief and a speedy
ai d permane t cure Read testimonials wrapped with each
bottle, of wonderful cures effec'ed by this medicine.
Dunstone's Dandelion, 53 per bottle; Liver Pills, Is per
box, of all Druggists. Be certain to ask for Dunstone's.
Wholesale agents : Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth,
healthy gums and fragrant breath, cai only * e obtained by
the daily use of Rowland s Odonto, or Pearl Dentrifice.
It eradicates tartar from the teeth and colishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pcarl-like whiteness, Rowlands
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and croduces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyfs. snd use Rowlands’
Macassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best pre-
server, strengthened and beautifier of the hair Sold 8 Iso in
a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children. Row-
lands’ Kalydor remove* freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and pn duces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers in
perfumery for Rowland s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
HUMBUGGED AGAIN.
I saw so much said about the merits of Dr. Soule's Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, and my wife—who was always doctoring,
and never well—teased me urgently to get her some. I con-
cluded to be humbugged again ; and I am glad I did, for in
less than two months’ use of Dr, Soule's American Hop
Bitters my wife was cured, and she has remained so for
eighteen months since. 1 like such humbugging. H. T. St.
Paul—" Pioneer Press."
A medical journal says that cigarette-
smoking is poisonous. We hope so. Most of the
youths we see indulging in it would be better
dead.
A WORLD OP GOOD.
ODe of the meat popular medicines now before the Ameri
can public is Dr. Soule’s Ainei ican Hop Bitters. You see it
everywhere. People take it with good effect. It builds them
up. It is not as pleasant to the taste as some other Bitters,
as it is Dot a whisky drink. It is more like the o.d-fashioned
b-'ne set tea that has done a world of good. If you don't
feel just right, try Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
" Nunda News ’’
A Boon to Humanity.— ln 1844 a therapeutical inven-
tion vas brought before the world, which surprised everyone,
in that it dispelled, modified or lessened Pain, the charac-
teristic symptom of nearly all diseases. The inventor made
of his discovery, although at the time Scepticism
raised her head, and people loudly acclaimed it was im-
possible that a tingle medicine couid arrest Pain of every
kind, and cure a variety of diseases f uch, however, was the
fact when Mr. Richard Freeman placed in the hand of the
public his Genuine Cbltrodyne. Year by year its cosmo-
politan popularity has increased, till it is njw fnund in every
quarter of the globe and thoussnds daily, in New Zealand
and cither lands express their gratitude and sens o of security
from the us« of this medicine.—Sold everywhere throughout
the Colonies. Insist upon having ‘'Freeman's'’ only
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an
Elephant.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King street Aroade.*
Children starving to death on account of their in-
ability to digest food, will find a most marvellous food and
remeoy in Scott s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil
with Hypoi>hosphiteb. Very palatable, and easily
digested. Read the following testimonial: “I have pre-
scribed ’ Scott s Emulsion' in oases of children suffering
from wasting and ma 1-nutrition, and can report most favour-
ably of its good effect; it has been in each case taken most
readily.—W. Perkins, M.R C.S., Medical Superintendent,
Burleigh Hospital, England.’’ Any chemist can supply it at
4s 6a.
Health Is Wealth.
It is worth more than riches, for without it riches
cannot be erjoyed. How many people are with-
out health who might regain it by using Dr. bells
bitters. It acts upon the liver, bowels and kid-
neys cleans in gard stimulating them to a healthy
action. It cures all disorder jof these Important
organs, purifies the blood, and promotes the
general health. Said by all druggists.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
■ I
E2SBCXJT'
FOR ALL
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS
INDENTS AHE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
Vitiii&yw/
BEFORE TAKING,
(vaoM lira,)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine."— Proverbs 17-c, 22-v.
CAUNT’S PHOSt'HiIRIZfD IROk QUININE TONIC.
“REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce healthr*l.d
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with'
food It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilerating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 38. 6d., from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direot from the Manufacturer, W, F, GAUNT, the
Pbarmaoy, Camperdown, Sydney, V ’ 6
Bewail «f SmlUUooi, Taki •« VvkttltsMf
AFTBR TAKING,
(now un,)
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We reoommend these BITTERS to be taken twt
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remov
lng all Impure secretions than any other mediolnal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England
Port Adelaide, Ootober SO 1883.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottleß of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medloines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the ohest, general de*
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effeot, till at last, being
reoommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, whioh, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effeot and ohange in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflioted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardt.
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
DOWS
O-EMBRO CATION
iUSEPHSON’S OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT In the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE; But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is s ach an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now eo
famed throughout the world
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN col@r is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you I
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs, E Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found muoh relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &e.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Hbkald Office,
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW S
STEANE’S BITTERS,
great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
I* GEORGE HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows i
That I feel it a duty I owe to the publio to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW'S
SiEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the same ocm-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) Q. HEWETT
„r, , „ .' . 215 Pitt strict,
Deolared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, belo
OH6)
“ (Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P."
th « m - * nd *or ROW’S STEAK B
BITTERS, prepared solely fey
EDW, ROW »■* COMPANY,
PAINFULLY LOCAL.
SCHOOL INSPECTOR (examining school): “HOW WOULD YOU GET FROM FRANCK TO
ENGLAND?”
CHUCKLEHEADED SON Ob A LOCAL COCKY: “PLEASE, SIR, THROUGH THE BIG
SCR UB! ”


OUR
NEW ADDRESS
IS
DffitUT SUPPLY
association
BEG to return thank® to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favours,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
MUSICAL I STRUM tiNTS
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments tor our new premises,
safely say that no other House can equal us.
Our line in
AGGOROEONS
is something marvellous.
PATENT BRASS NOTED ACCORDKONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17-/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, &c.
PATENT STEEL NOTED ACCORDEONS,
30/-. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 4®/-, 45/-, and 50/-.
PATEN P BROAD REEDED ACCORBEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/-.
PATENT GERM \N SILVER AOCOBD¥.ONS,
30/-, 32/6-, 35/-, 37/6. 40/-, 45/-, 50/ , up to £4,
4 6 5 6 7 6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 81/., »0-
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Laohenal Anglo German ... m 35/
„ „ steel notes 50/.
We have a special line of splendid O gan Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key, complete
for 21/.
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last Amerioan Mail received
an shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 5/ , 20/ , 30/-, up to £l5 15/-.
O' R SPEOIaL LINES ARE;—
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjces, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ 4 10/-.
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zampinani’s at 6d , 9d . and 1/-, each,
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewington’s at 6d , 9d., and 1/-, eaoh
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all inßtrn
ments carefully paoked and sent to any part) of
the oolonles.
Enquiries attended to by return of posti
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
658 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Few people are aware of the alarming prevalence
of Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among
those who have arrived at or past middle age. It
is declared on good authority that fully one-half
the deaths in this country are either directly or
indirectly the result of Kidney or Liver disease of
some sort.
A great majority of men above 40 years of age
are afflicted with some sort of affection of the
Kidneys or Bladder, and these diseases are on the
increase. Persons are often seriously affected
before they know of it themselves, and thus these
insidious disorders get a good foothold before any-
thing is done tt> dislodge them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s disease, In-
continence, Debility, Catarrh of the Bladder,
Albumenuria, &c., are among the many forms of
these diseases. Most of these are very difficult to
cure, defying the powers oftentimes of the best
physicians obtainable, and are pronounced by
many to be incurable.
Physicians state that many forms of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in
diseases of this form oftentimes there are no
symptoms of a marked nature This is one of the
reasons why they are so difficult to cure.
Dr. Bell’s Kidney and Liver Bitters is a specific
for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and
Urinary diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and
all of that olaes of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Headaches, Jaundice, Liver aQ d
Stomach troubles, Dvspecsia, Constipation, and Piles
It cures Intemperance, Nervous diseases, General Debility,
Female Weaknesses and excesses.
It is thoroughly reliable, highly recommended, works
nromptly, relieves at once, and wa» never known to fail.
v v TESTIMONIALS.
Gents —I have been trouble d with Kidney disease; there
was also fluttering of the heart-palpitation, I B"Ppose-
and I had to lie v ry quiet after going to bed At last I
thought I would try a bottle of your bells bitters I
nurchased some at Redford, and took the medicine as
directed, and after using one bottle, I felt no more of the
fluttering heart I got another bottle, and had to take only
oi e-half of it to be cured. My daughter was similarly
troubled: had no appetite ; could not sleep at night. I gave
her my half remaining bottle, and she rests as well as ever.
There* is no trouble with my kidneys now. I shall keep
your medicine <n hand
Oc’obei, 1886. William Ritter,
Gentlemen—I have been troubled ever since I was a child
with Headaches of a nervous character, and my mouth was
full of canker snres—so bad, indeed, that I could not eat;
nor could I est at night. At last I tried your bells
bit ers and two bottles have brought me out all right, and
I now feel like a new person.
October 29,1886. Mrs. 0. Rose.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
VBW ROTTTTT WALKS AND OUWWNRLAND
lichtner & CO*.
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
' AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth - treet, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
p~h r;T lSscg.'U.isitos.
. II I II ""JUS
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
ft W T O N AND lam
- OHJHTUICB »nd PIANO* JRf ft
WARBHGUSBMBN
UPHOLSTBRBRft
ASTD
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'GONNBLL STRESSES
Large stock of pianofortes by th
MOST CELEBRATED MAKERS, NEW-
TON and LAMB.
B
aGATELLE BOARDS Portable, varion
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
W oodß, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms, Great variety,
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell streets
4, TVK POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED
r R Ovt SUITES —The Eoonumic Bediuom
Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand with
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and two
Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable Early English
designs—WARDROBE, i feet, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTaND, with mar ole top
and tile back and Towel Bail; TOILET TABLE,
with Swing Glass attached ; PEDEsTAL CUP
BOaRD and Two CANE-SEATED CHAIRS, 16
guineas-
NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BENT*
WOOD FURNITURE,
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
ont. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
DINING with patent extending
screws,* from 6 feet long and np to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBIIO BLINDS, 6xB,
BxB, 9x 8, 10 xB, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys *nd cords. 6 x 8,6 a 6d. ; 8 x 8,
9a.; 9xB, 9s. 6d. ; 10 xB, 10s. 6d. ; 12x8, 12s.
6d. ;12 x 10, 15s. NEWTON and LAMB, Furni-
ture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell streets.
”D
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHHS DRYBR,
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
AN VAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial ano Light.
Suitable for Shipboard
and Verandah,
Price very low.
NEWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6 feet long,
Rußtic Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. eacb,
NEWTON AND LAMB.
G
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.
NEW TON and LAMB.
Chairs,
Rattan verandah lounges, from iss.;
and large variety of Chairs, from 12s. 6d.
&c.; s eoial de> lgns, extra quality. Newt on and
LAMB, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
c:
JC E CHEST A
all sizes,
from 27k
NEWTON aod LAMB.
JIXOKL 8 I 0 R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVE D
REFRIGERATORS,
Various Sizes, from 15s.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest price?,
NEWTON and LAMB, Importers, O’Connell*
street,, /
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
NEWTON and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s, each.
NEWTON and LAMB,
I Emperor Fritz, says a cable, “ although he
.rrived during a heavy snowstorm, at once pro-
seeded on a visit to the body of his father.” Why
lot? One would think that it wasn’t etiquette to
sail upon a dead man in stormy weather, And
;hat sweet idea of “proceeding on a visit to the
body” somehow reminds us of the undertaker,
who whispered a funeral guest—“ If you please,
sir, the corpse’s brother wants to speak with
you."
Thomas Fulton, a wood-dealer, was up be-
fore the Fitzroy (Vic.) Court the other day,
charged with threatening to kill, and two or three
doctors deposed that he was mad. Whereupon
Thomas snorted like a war-horse, and observed :
“ Mad be dashed ! T can buy two load* of wood,
and t-eh them for six that's not mad, is it ?’ Toe
Bench surmised that it was a mania peculiar to
the trade, and ordered him an unspecified term at
Kew ; and now no wood-dealer in Melbourne feels
safe. But then any wood-merchant with the
name of Fulton deserves ten years for false pre-
tences.
When Burnett was on the Durham
Lead (Vio.), about 23 years ago, he hung out his
sign and held forth with fine frenzy at the little
chapel on the hill, and everyone within reach
rallied round to hear the great ap »stle of slops
bang the liauor fiend, and watch the Wesleyans
weep when Mat expounded the scriptures in his
old hysterical style. Amongst the mob came one
lady of Amazonian pr -portions, who joined in the
hymns with infinite gusto, and lifted up her voice
with the energy of a steam horn. This lady was
well-known on the Lead as an adept with her
fists, and she had also been observed to indulge in
fermented liquor on an occasion or two. One
night, after a particularly good time, Burnett’s
chairman, noticing her in the audience, signalled
her out, and asked: “Won’t you come up and
sign, Sister L ?’’ “No 1" emphatically re-
plied Sister L . “And whv not, Sister?”
Sister upended, and answered pointedly: ‘‘Be-
cause I like my beer 1 ” This was unanswerable,
and Sister L was troubled no more.
From the Christian Advocate “ She
was married, and, of course, there was a child,"
said her husband, speaking of a mutual friend.
“ That does not always follow," said Mrs. Willie
Dear. “ Well, my love, it certainly should not
come before."
Mr. J. H. Witheford has hoisted the New
Zealand flag in Sydney. He has exhibited in
Flavelle and Robert’s window beautiful pictures
of the big dock, Auckland which takes two men*
o'-war at once, with 12 feet of water under their
keels as they enter. Mr. Witheford is an enthu-
siast In mining, and has also shown a collection
of extremely rioh golden ore from the Coromandel
and Thames Peninsula, which has made Syd-ey
mining men think Beriously of annexing so rich
an Kuriferous district, and making it a branch
goldfield of New South Wales It is only some
four or five days' trip, more convenient of aocess,
in faot, than Mount Morgan and Broken Bill,
and, as the Auckland people are too indolent or
dispirited to work their own reefs, it will probably
devolve on Sydney men to step in and secure the
golden prize.
A howling drunk was held lately at a
N.S.W. bac* -oiooks pub. kept by a worthy child
of the Emerald Isle. It was the finishing touch
to the local race-meeting, and every man was in
his merriest mood, till one son of a gun loudly
tapped the table and announced a toast. Silence
reigned for a moment, and having been lifted to
his feet he hicooughed out, “To hell with the
Pope!" The silence whloh precedes death
reigned aronnd till a gintleman with a green
necktie and pimpled nose arose solemnly and
announced that he bad a toast to propose,
which he did. It was “to hell with King
Billy !" Matters were about getting warm when
the landlord thought it high time to interfere in
order to prevent bloodshed, and he blandly an-
nounced, in a brogue thick enough to cut with a
knife, that he also had a toast to propose, and it
was “To hell wid the whole of yez.” The land-
lord’s sally restored ordher, and the night was
finished in the orthodox manner.
Loss and Gain.
CHAPTER I.
" I was taken sick a year ago
With bilious fever.”
“My doctor pronounced me cured, but I got
Bick again, with terrible paina in my back and
Bides, and I got so bad I
Could nob move!
I shrunk!
From 2281bs. to 120! I had been doctoring for
my liver, but it did me no good. I did not ex-
peot to live more than three months. 1 began to
use Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. Directly
my appetite returned my pains left me, my entire
system seemed renewed as if by magic and after
using several bottles, I am not only as sound as
a soverign, but weigh more than I did before. To
Hop Bitters I owe my life.”
Dublin, June 6, '86. , R. Fitzpatrick.
GHAPTER II.
Maiden, Mas*.. Feb. 1, 1886. Gentlemen—
I have suffered with attacks of sick headache.”
Neuralgia, female trouble, for years in the most
terrible and excruciating manner.
No medicine or doctor could give me relief or
cure, until I used Dr. fcoule’a American Hop
Bitters.
“ The first bottle
Ne»rly cured me ; ”
The seoond made me as well and strong as
when a child,
“ And I have been so this day."
My husband was an invalid for twenty years
with a serious
“Kidney, liver and urinary complaint,
“ Pronounced by Boston’s best physicians—
“ Incurable I ”
Seven bottles of your Bitters cured him and
know of the
“ i ives of eight persons”
In my neighborhood that have been saved by
your Bitters,
And many more are using them with great
benefit.
“ They almost
Do miracles?” —Mrs- E. D. Slack.
How to Gvt Sick.— Expose yourself day and i ight: eal
too much without exercise; work too hard without rest
aootor all the time: take all the vi'e advertised
and then you will wans to know how to get well, which ia
answered in a few words—Take Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
£3TNone genuine without a bunoh of green
hops on the white label, and Dr Soule’s name
blown on the bottle. Beware of all the vile poi
•vinous or-nff rn imitate fche above.


“Australia’s” Mods i*r Consultations Syd-
ney Cup, run April 2nd, 3DOO subscribers at £l.
First horee. £1500; Pecond, £6:O ; Thiid £301;
Starters, £3OO ; * on-etarters, £3OO ; divided
amongst them. Tho Australian Jockey Club
Plate, run Anri) 7ih, 30CO subs., at 103. each.
Frst horse. £7OO ; Secmd, £2OO ; Third. £100;
Starters, £150; Nonstarters, £'so; divid.d
amongst them o*e hundred oaeh prizes of £2
each. A 1 o Queens’ Birthday Cup, run May 24th,
3000. Subscribers are requested to apply early
and enclose two s*amped addres ed envelopes for
reply aDd result. Addresi, 44 Australia,” care
of Mr. H. Dalvasn, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office, George-street, Sydney,
N S W.*
Dr. Alfred Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Su-geona, England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Great Britain
and by the Medical Board of N. 8. Wales Specialist
in diseases of the kidney*, bladder, skia, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases a
special study through life, and he has had the very great
practical advantages of a large private as well as hospital
practice not only in G'eat Britain and America, but the Con-
tinent of Europe Consultations eith-r personally or by
letter. Eldon House, Phillip-street near King street,
Sydney.
THE WORLD RENOWNED gT. LOUIS L4GER
BEER.
Twelve Ye \rs Before The World.
Opir ion of tho Champion Sculler.
Dear S rp,—l have the greatest pleasure in in-
forming jot that when in traialrg for the
Championship cf the World during my visit to
England whaie I met Le®, Teemer and Gaudaur,
I drank your famous Sr. Louis Lager Beer. 10 is
a wonderful health and strength giving beer, and
I feel it my duty to acquaint you of my high
opinion of its merit®. (Signed) William Beach,
To Champion of the World.
Botcher Fehon & Co.
■
Sydney, N.S.W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Marshall Brothers,
Gentlemen'—Not feeling well, I procured same
of Marshall’s ‘ Tonic Nervine," having been ad-
vised to take It. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
Of its grand staying and strengthening properties.
Yours very truly,
tp
cut
Ex-Champion Oarsmpn of the World.
The
Referee
Worrall takes Midwinter’s placj in the
Australian Eleven.
* * *
The N.S.W. contiog mt of the Australian
Eleven —M'Donnell, Jones, Turner, and Ferris
sailed by the Oceanien on Saturday. With the
exception of Blackham, they are the only members
of the team who oan be properly classified as true
representatives of the strength of Australia.
• • •
A hitch has occurred with reference to the
intercolonial qnolt-matcb, but Mr. Robinson rays
the match shall go on if he has to find all the
money himself,
* * *
Principals, seconds, timekeepers, referees,
and several onlookers have been served with sum-
monses over the recent Payne-M irshall glove
fight in Sydney. The police, in standing by and
allowing the sport to end without remonstrance,
were accessories in even a greater degree than the
seconds and others, and should certainly bs placed
upon the same footing.
• • •
la eleven-aside matches played by Lilly-
white's team, Shrewsbury heads the batting with
Ihe splendid average of 38 runs per innings, the
next beat being Braun with an ave-aga of 26
Lehmann has the bast rec >rd with the ball—ll
runs a wicket.
* # *
Oar footballers should make an early start
this season in vie w of 'he E ig ish team, who have
a’reaiy sail >d for the colonies.
• • •
An enterprising assurance-agent adver-
tises. in view cf the coming foot Sail season, that
he is desirous of oo nmunioatiog with the secre-
taries of footba’l c’ubs the view of assuring
life and limb cn most ftvourab'e terms. This
looks 1 ke b'z.
* * #
“ Jumbo” Walker now poses as* profe:sor
of natation,
* * #
Owing to the acti >n of the B dmain
Swimming Club in refusing to swim against
Cavill, on ths ground that he was a professional
the matter of p ofessi malism is to be discussed at
the next meetlnr of the N.S. W. S dimming Asso-
ciation. Tneie can b' no reason why the distinc-
tion should not be mad) ia swimming as well as
in other branches of s iort.
* * *
Rumoured that Moorhouse goes to Lord
Bcresford, India. Figure, 600 guineas.
* » »
£14,910 !s the 3im, so far, ths Hod. James
White has annexed this s sa*on. The Hon. W. A.
Long comes next with £4,449.
• * •
American boxer Costello, in a letter to a
Sydney friend, gave as his opinion that the English
anateur, M". Buck, could not stand two rounds
before Mr. George Seale, and taking a line from
the “ B uffalo's ” goes with the two men, he can
hardly be far out.
* * •
Alec B&nnermau made a level 100 In the
Carlton-University match. )
* * *
There was a mo3b enjoyable meeting at
Rosehill on Saturday, but the train arrangements
have nut yet been perfected, the soeofal being
blooked four times daring the trip. Tie 10 to 1
ohance Aristocrat won the Rookwood Handicap ;
Diliek, who was equal favourite wfih Maggie, ap-
propriated the Nursery Handicap ; the mutual sell-
ing race fell to S reohon ; Ravansworth won the
St. Patrick’s Day Handicap from Bonnie I) jod,
after the pair had run a dead heat, and Uiley
O’Connor flni<hed the day’s sport b/wiming the
Welter Handicap,
* * #
The eight rounds between the two Jacks
—Molloy ard Hall—to come off at Folay’s on
Saturday n’ght next-, should prove a sc’entific
show of the first order. For points, ib is hard to
say which will turn out the right bower.
The Albury Cup proved a bit of a fizzle
Bt fore the horses started, S. Martin, who appeared
to take an interest in Morok, ridden by Hales,
sang out to the starter that the horses were past
the post, and if started he would protest. Started
th*y were, however, and Morok and Hales oame
in first. Martin protested not, but an owner, who
had heard him warn the starter, did, and the race
was ordered to be run agaiD, when Drumstiok
proved the winner, In 2min. 24i»ec. The cup was
actually taken out for presentation to Hales, when
the protest was handed in.
* * *
Cannon and Connor wrestle once ag dn on
Saturday afternoon. Melbourne Royal will be the
scene of their desperate encounter.
* * *
The Melbourne cricket match for ths
bmefib of poor Billy Bates was started in the
presenos of thirty spectators !
* * *
Jadgmg from the meagre particulars to
hand respecting Sullivan and Mitchell’s fight at
Chantilly, the Slugger’s reputation as a fistic
phenomenon is consi*erably tarnished. Ib may
be true enough that he had all the bast of what
fighting actually took place, and that the ring
was ridiculots'y large, but the fact remains that
he was in a ring for three hours wthout being
able to knook cut his opponent. The most ex-
haustive cablegram report says that Mitchell
stood up gamely in the 6th and 7th rounds an*
“ succeeded in rep 'atedly hitting Sullivan, whe"'
went down frequently." Very significant is the
further s tat: me nt that ‘ afier the sovenih '•rnd
both msn seemed to aoi on the <'ef’»neive atid
appeared to be unwilling to come to close
quarters again.” As far as one cm read be-
tween the lines, Mitchell opened in rather faint-
hearted style, and reoeived a loti of his punish-
ment in the first two rounds, but as he gained
confidence the Slugger began to lo*e it. Anyway,
this much-puffed gentleman— eo aggressive and
invincible with gloves on—has, tor the first time in
his life, aoted on the defensive. For some years
Americans have been forming awful conjectures
respecting what “ John L.” would do wi r h any
man who had the temerity to meet him with bare
knuckles. John, himself, shared in these dread
misgivings, and on the Sunday before the event
he attended Cathedral service because, “ perhaps,
he might kill Mitohell.’ But Mitchell, a two-
stone lighter man than his opponent, still lives,
and moves, and has his being. We not'ce
that certain Australian papers regard this
flghn as a triumphant proof of Sullivan’s
superiority in the noble art, but The
Bulletin begs to surmise that it has gone
far to burst up the champ on's boom. When the
Smith Kilrain affair was cabled, our Press gene-
rally accepted it as a desperate and stubbornly
contested battle, instead of the miserable “fake”
promptly denounced in a Bulletin jingle. We
are not now questioning the sp'endidphjsiqueaud
activity of Sullivan, but are maintaining that he
is not a great prize-fighter, as the term was under-
stood twenty-five year i ago, in the heyday
of the ring. Does atyone imagine that
Heenan would have been “ unwilling to come
to close quarters ” with Mitchell after fighting six
rounds ? B oh! Juet now there is a lot of money
in prize-fighting, and likely men are being eagerly
A PARLIAMENTARY SLANGING LESSON
PARKEI: “I’ll call him a mole-eyed creature.”
TUTOR: “Oh! no. You must be Australian. There are no moles here. Call him a
bandicoot on a burnt ridge.”
PARKES: “ Then I’ll tell the electors that they are crimps, thieves, and b’acklegs.”
TUTOR : “Better call them ’possums and dingoes.”
PARKES: “ Anybody who Interrupts me I’ll ca’l a withered tarantula with spread-
eagle whisker.?”
TUTOR: “ Tell him he is a Victorian exile, a Chinaman, a geebung, and that he’d better
go outside with the dogs and bark.”
PARKES: “If he Interjects, I’ll say he is a Dick Turpin and tell him to Shut up.”
TUTOR: “ Better say he’s one of the Ky-arlinal's altar boys, that he’s got hair on his
teeth, and that his mother was a Jesuitical Protectionist. If that doesn’t
sllenc[?]him, ca'l him a jelly-fish, a blubber-bag, a stingamaree, and that you’ll
harpoon him with a shaft dipped in his own gall.”
sought after by the wire-pullers. And before long
a giod “big ’un ’’ will ba found equal to knosklng
out the celeb 'ated Amurrikan bogey.
* * •
When the M.C C. entertained Vernon,
Stoddart, and Co. at dinner, last week, the health
of her G radons and tha rest of the R lyal family
was drunk in solemn silence, “by way of respect
for the memory of the late Eoaueror of Germany."
For grovelling absurdity that just about takes the
cake. If they must drag her name forward at a
crioket’Dg dinner, surely it’s most necessary to
sing ‘'God save the Queen” when another
monarch has just pegged out.
* * *
“Dick”. Dunn, about the fonlest-mouthed
and most prosperous of Britain’s ready-money book-
makers, has been figuring as plaintiff and respon-
dent (cross-case) in a boastly dlvoroe suit. Bunn
is, in appearance and manner, a large and vulgar-
ised —yes, vu’garised, ye Gods! —edition of our old
friend Ro v ert Sutton. It transpired, in evidence,
that he kept eight servants, and occasionally
varied the monctocy of dinner en famille by
chucking a leg of pork or a saddle of mutton at
the lady of the bouse. After all, It is as well that
Australian bookmaking should be developing into
a Hebraic monopoly. The Chosen People do love
and cherish their womenkind.
* * •
Ifc Is painfoliy evident that the new blood
introduced into Australian elevens is poor, thin
stuff compared with matured fluid. Last week
two teams, which included all our avai'able
talent (except Gfffen, Jarvis, and Spoffortb), were
pitted against Englishmen, at Sydney and Mel*
bournp, They were eaph badly but it is
curious co notice how the “representative" men
cowered over the new earners. At Sydney, the
veterans Blaokham, Jones, and M‘D Jnn?ll scored
147 out of 190, and 164 out of 267. At Melbourne,
Bruce, MTlwraitb. and Tr unable made 58 out of
81, and 60 out of 135, being the only msn to ob-
tain double figures in both inning?. The fifth
Australian Eleven were not a brilliant sucoess In
England, but in the last two years we haven’t
turned out a batsman up to their average form.
* * *
In the N.S.W. Legislative Council, the
other day. the Hon. George Thornton assured his
hon. and learned friend, Sir William Manning,
that Tattereali’s Club, Sydney, had no desire to
promote betting !
* • #
A cricketing coincidence. Oa Monday of
last week the English teams In Sydney and Mel-
bourne each finished up a day’s batting with 8
wickets for 355. While Shrewsbury w*s scoring
130 runs on cne ground, Walter Read was hitting
up 142 on the otner.
* * *
Spade Guinea has chang3d hands onoe
again. Mr. Haine3 was the latest purchaser, at
700 g?.
• * *
At a recent big race-meetlcg two horses
from tho same statfe were entered, and all the
money iu the stable was put on one of them. Bat
there was a jockey who was not considered a
factor in the llttls game and he had put his little
pile on the other h use —the one he was riding.
And his horse won! And he was immediately
gt*en “the Baok ” in the paddock! Voila,
messieurs; this is the noble spo tof rosbif horse-
r a'ring.
* * •
Acjording to Jack Thompson, for several
years past F jl«y has never made less than £7OOO
per annum at his boxlng-hal 1 .
# * *
A prizi was competed for ab the last
Wollongong (V.S. W.) show for the be3t “ boy-
horseman under 14 years of age, with turnout."
A. protest was entered against the winner of the
second priz 3 on the ground that the boy was
above the speoifled age. Hij Bire, who wears a
reverend sort of oountenance, deposed before the
oommittee that the boy was aged 14 seems and 5
months. Thereon the committee adjudicated by
resolution that, as horses’ ages are dated from the
first of August, the youth would not be beyond
14, In a sporting sense, till next Augus", whereon
the protest was dismissed. It is needless to say
that the co'nm'ttee, as a rule, belong to the
“ unco guid." The decision is final, otherwise the
aggrieved says he would take the matter to a judge
of the Supreme Court to wit, W. J. Foster The
wonder is ho >v the committee managed to be pos-
sessed of so much sporting information.
Sir Robert Wisdom died In Sydney, last
week, at the early age of 58, of an illness by
which he wou’d probably not have been overtaken
but for the liveliness of his Parliamentary career
and the amount of festivity in which he took
part during his recent English visit. Had he de-
voted himself earnestly to politics, or the bar, bis
death would have been a greater national lois,
for he wai a manly man of mu jh ability and
force of character and a big heart. He wae buried
in the Waverley Cemetery.
From the N.Z. War Cry :
Christchurch— Harvest thanksgiving tremendous suc-
cess; great crowds; Colontl and Mrs. T»ylor leading the
attack ; devil properly unset; a Oornish woman saved; seven
souls for the day ; £l5 15collection and a lot of jewelleiv
Glory! Glory!! Glory!!! Capt. Robinson.
The silver city of Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
seems to have sprang out of the ground in a
night, like a mushroom. It is expeoted that
20,00 J people will ba on the spot bafore the end of
the year. The Telegraph Ofllc3 returns already
amount to £350 weekly.
There wa3 a Chow festivity a week or two
ago at Albury (N.S.W.). A pair of almond eyes
had been clo?ed in death, and aU the brethren
who ohin-chinned Joss in that looal ty poured in
to do honour to the departed, and the roast pig
gave up the gho3t, and there was opium and pie
and great Asiatic larks One European woman
who was there took fire when the excitement wai
at the highest point and was burnt to the ground,
and then there were three 00rp363 on those pre-
mises, including the pig.
Governor Wobioson, of South Australia,
states that “he thinks colonial boys are rather
longer in the legs and not quite so rosy in the face,
but in moral attributes and character they are
the same ai English boys.” We are obliged to
Wrblnson, but why he is so anxious to reduce
everything to an English standard we really don’t
know. We were always of opinion that Wobin-
Bor himself was longer in the leg* and not quite
so yellow in the countenance as Koo-Too, a very
respectable Chinaman in the next street to our
office, but we wouldn’t have mentioned it if he
had kept quiet. As to his character, we decline
to institute comparisons.
A correspondent writes:
Yearn ago there wa3 a white man in the Queensland town
where I reside, who lived by growing and a uiicg vegetables
He got on moderately we'l for a long time, and then a
yellow son cf Shem from the Hoang-Ho came aloeg and
started in opposition. He undersold the European and
ruined his trade. The alleged white men of the place woult
have cursed all creation if they had teen compelled to work
for less tban, say, 40 3 a week, but they had no idea of giving
anyb dy else the same opportunity as they demanded for
themselves. The white man charged tor bis warts jig’;
enough to give him the rate of wages which his countrymen
wanted, but they apparently concluded that he had no right
to eatn so much, and went in for saving a few coppers by
patronising the Mongol, who was satiefi d with 15s. a week,
with dirt and leprosy th own in. The Chinaman has grown
rich since then—as Chinamen understand richer—and bii
former rival is now building a humpy for him and his wife—
a white woman who is in gaol. Toe contract price for
the structure is £2 which means about ss. a week for the
while mns labour. If he doesnt like tr do the
j>b at ihe price some Chew or ether will undertake it.
•J he first Chinaman iatheplaie was the gardener, and the
w hits man who livtd b? c irpentr-ring supported him against
th< ir own countryman and ruined the latter t > save a few
pence Then came Chinese carpenters, and the other white
men supported them for the sake < f mean econrmy, so thit
the white carpenters who threw tbei own countryman over-
board are treated in the same f rfhion in their turn And so
it goes on. T«e initial vil ainy cf tie men wh >, while earn-
ing good wages'hemselves, refuse their brethren the
turii yto do likewise, is like the letting in of water. It is the
beginning of ruin and when those who patronise the China-
men are thsmselves ruined by the Chinamen the only pos-
sible verdict is—it selves them right. Yours— Ant .-Chi* a-
MAN.


f Mi-i.KjK iv niios., maa a co.,
IRONMOR GBRS,
MACHIN KR Y MUR CH ANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Vo
o
IRONMONGERS
512
X
p
o
*
REG?
c e
<
b
SPECIALITIES:
Bavis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Aibo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATE® WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S. JEANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &c.
*» V s
m mm
COMPOUND
SMB OP DAHDELIOS
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
''■Sitliot, Liver d Kidney Dimitri
Eft
•Durr. testimonials wrapped with each bottle and yon will be convinced.
T TT/Xn ——SO!
° LIVER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and tonic in conjunction with
~ the DANDELION ESSENCE.
h 101
ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, la. pel
_ Box. Of all Chemists.
-—xot
le Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
Qiiticura
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
ml
Scrofula on Neck-
IPLE3 to SCROFULA
«&. HIIMORS, Humiliating Erup-
Sore* « D j Burning Skin Torture*,
Sore* i>ur “>ng BEl)
&fe*43£%sa; and Syphl-
oi Itching,
So^& nf SSi
R *sor.J n ™ n °y t 0 old age, are cui
», with
cured by
Blsonril ncy t 0 ° ld age, are ,
* f ®M > and Ottt? KT ’ the new Blood Purifier,
'~>J: ki n and Cuticuba Soap, the
re* “ uu UUTICUBA BOA.
__ tld Beautlfier*, externally.
Skin Diseases
k°th .ties, and , washerwoman’s Itch
both „ u ®*, m vf* ri > Washerwoman’s Itch,
3 Otj^* e *. W*? ellcate Irritation* peculiar
a “tly relieved by a warm bath
iv'roun lotI «A Hrf ntly relieved by
>nl y ’ Mth the greaf a?? a single application of
*i U ,*PseHn th ree dei 8k i n Cure. This repeated
wr y cure TteM of Cuticuba Resolvent,
a\! a other hlng H “leases of the Skin and
absolutely fail.
"Work on the Skin,
t*ir y one, i, "rapped about the Re
befnJ! lU ?^ red Testimonials, sol
y «ar B '*, Bt °ry: r 0 ? 6 the British Consul, which
Of n?he en S® B * D lK( ." ave been a terrible sufferer
ei* *bv rlT Q OblWj . ea *es of the Htln nr,rl RU.ort ■
*1« yd isfi^ bll Bed to tf e 8 of the Sk:
ho 138 ! h Buri ug h« Bbun ? Pli
&*•&***» have h&
-v?i.® 8 °I the Skin and Blood,
daces by reason
the best phy
wVSfwl B Pent‘r iB j haveha'd the best phy
havin ' 1 Used U n, dre^ 8 of dolla rs, and got
kocn? 1 " 6 a*t °nred mi* Cuticuba Remedies,
*°*i ” Byi-Ohild’s. ci 811 ? ]®lt my skin and blood
“utid’g « j ;oii my sKin ana oiooa
t° Cure Hu tor our sixty-four page
w Ad. Hkln and Blood Diseases?’
•^y^OONSISNEES,
Co *‘ New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVE*. , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Cheat Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Bor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
(trug'SHsts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Zs->la'od. Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
$l.OO. Cuticura Soap, 25 oents; Cuticura Shav-
ino soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt the
Potter Urag Jk Chemical Co.. Rutsa, U.R.A.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
hi:di xstibttkgkq:.
*• OUNYNQHAMK, Bond-street, Sydney,
In bulk
and case,
Best BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
rpi
BANK or NEW *" IKAJLAMB.
BTDm Buiohhi
l« FITT-STREBT, and NS OEORGB-BTREET.
Paid-up Capital m m A 1.000,008
Reserve fond m _ 100,008
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
clal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
SEECHAM'B PILLS
H 4
&
FATENT
PILLS
#
At* admitted by thd*
■and* to be worth %
Guinea a Box lor bilione
and nerrous disorders
duck as wind and pari
Ik the stomach, sic>
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dunsmess
and drowsiness, cold
shills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, ooatire-
aesa, scurry, blotches on
the shin, disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and ail
aarrous and trembling
sensations, 4c. The tag!
dose will girs relief S®
. astamts*. This is a* fiction, for the* havs
Ctsa 'lt te thousands of ease*. Every suffisror u
liSfflasto invited to try on* box of those Hli*. end
v 3? wiffl be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A 801
dse ■namAiam of all ages these Pill# are tuvawM»Disi
. 5 few doses of them carry off all gross humour*
■ v*r all obstructions, and bring about all that ts
, :(nda?@d. No female should be without them. Thew
•as ,medicine to be found to equal BEECH AM’S
/•tit# for removing any obstruction er irregularity
<&#system. If taken accosding to thedirection*
j&w with each box they will soon restore females of
•"* ages* to sound and robust health.
JA- a weak stomach, impaired digesttua and ah
-SsoMers of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC, 1 ” and s
few donee will be found to work wonder# upon ths
.most important organs of the human machine They
the whole muscular system, restor* ths
issig-lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
owpotite, and arouse into action with the HQB3EBUP
•a health the whole physical energy of the unman
is*ame. These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousands
to bracing all classes of society; and one of the
•»«* guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
ftasoham’s Pills have the largest sale of any paten*
m odioine in the world.
MAGIC COUGH PILLS
a remedy for Coughs m general. Asthma, Diffi
Monty jto Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
'Sid Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac,, these
liU# stand unrivalled; and any one labouring tmdei
,*iy of the above complaints need enly try One Box
*® prove that they are the best ever offered to the
jr&Wte for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
hossa-sensss, and Oppression of the Chest. They
.Moodily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
s? breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest,
sissy give almost instant relief and comfort to those
jfiicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person irou bled
■lids any of the above complaints give Bxsoxax’s
on«w#* Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short dm* be
moved.
Oaotiox.—The public are requested to notice tha*
■4O words " Bxxcxak’i Pills, St, Helens,” are on tht
•j®vemment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills
U mot on they are a forgery.
{Prepared only and sold wholesale asifc retail by
i&t proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, it. Helens
England, in boxes at Is. lsd. and 3s. #d.
: ’«Bh.' —Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
< Mors throughout the Colonies. *
Stall directions are given With ssaa*
Oemmercial Hstel, Bympie, Queensland.
THE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels In the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
•urpafset All others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pra-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATJ DE COLOGNE.
If unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far >urpasses the numerous
i compounds sold under the same name,
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
Thi« world-renowned soap is superior to all
l other, lor cleansing and softening the skin
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
Of all Sealers, anil or the Manufactureri —
- 3.4 JS ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, Lor dor
Trade Mark—“ White icoae" on“ Golden
A Ljre ” A
MASON BROTHERS,
32
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
ttydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Sohnapps and Geneva.
A, MELVIN and SONS 1
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Umumess* Extra Stoat.
first quiun.
IRAOCM&2*
BASS’ PAL® ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS M tta
roatIUK AMD IMDIAX KDBIBHE9SI
LONDON
By Bpeolal Appolntmsn*
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALCHIN, JOHNSTON ft CO.,
OiHHinial Ohimbnii Bead- nut!. Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATfli
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o.
COOPERAGE.
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STRESS;
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Pbopbibtob (late of RookamptMtfi
CONDUCTED on the same principle aa ttaa
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A TOff
large Billiard Room.
Prloes as follows i—6s. per diem, All meals li, M,
MA.BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
PftE PAR.CO ONLY BY
.jTfWMAS Ingham
m
D" RIDGES
FOOD
m> INFANTS .MO INVALIDS
Has an. «norm#as sale in
and ta now being introduced lata »u>
Colonies.
8 very S tave* eeper should ge«e supply,*
da eVery wise mother will certalnies
use tt.
OK. BUDGE'S ROYAL FOODHULLS*
\LOBXXW.JfcNGXJurtV
WANUFACTURtNG HATTER?
GEORGE STREET
S V O N £.Y.
IMF !(\T£RS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
tftfl It QUXliff WTKKBT, BKittSAHI
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny's Baths, St. Kilda. cure Solattoa,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, Da*
presslon of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effected
The ourative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
GENUINE SODA WATER.
—"zzz ■ whs r-z !
Sjjlin Mi Water Co.,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.B.W,
First-olaeH Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train.
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor,
Good Sample Rooms.
*rrm *.oost»che tad Wkisksra.
•eFORt lt ' l<
Copyright*.
ed’n Beard Elixir did thin
will do it on either bald
f or bare face- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 r,.
4 weeks and never fails. 2o,ooo
young men already wear full
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. No injury , easily applied , certain
(» Packets, I*. 64. #aoV 3/or 3#. 64., pw* paid, «c»# under
•over, free from observation, Address, Frm*k Uo ngUt, Sole Agent,
Box T3O, O r.OSydney* If 8
rp O JOBBING PBINTBBB, fcO.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Oases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin" Newspaper Go., Pifct-streeU


AL *3
C
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
M caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of Its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with rapunity. Maintains Its full
strength In any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Bold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powdkx Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss fc Co.,
N.S.W.
mrjp "V*
JKt m JB B JOE^p p
WHLOBSAUi AND BNTAIC*
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £8 CASE
or
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS I
I Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
I Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes' Bom
1 Bottle rid Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free bo Bedfern Station, or any Wharf In the Oifey, on receipt Of ’£9,
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WILES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGS AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, TBO Gborgb-stribt.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL~"siNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 Gbor&b-sirbbi, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NBir
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYWYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATE!; OATAI/J9UKS Win PKIOB LIST, VRH OH AFPEiIOATBON,
WALLAOH BROTHERS
ram, run ***
urn raw
For Andatio Posing w»d WJJj?*-, 0
combining softness and >"■»»
Photographs •» -
GNARLEMONT •
ROYAL ARCADE
STAND
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATl 01 *'
FIRST CLASS TABL*'
Termi Moderate,
MUtGRAVE H3U»
Comer 01 -rajU*
OHARLOTTR and OEOKO* 81
BRISBANE.
JOB. BARRINgTON^^
gIXCBLSIOR HOTBLJ3HABT*® 9
Second Brick Hotel Building
wn, situated comer of GUI and
w. m. qovq*^
HE WONDER 0 F
COLEMANE AND SONS
Pure Volatile fucalypt e
the only Genuine Eucalypte * n
GOLD MEDAL ADELAIDE
EXHIBITION. uf
All those suffering from Asthma, *’’!' 0 89<*
an otiose sunenng xrorn ia
sumption, Rieucnatism,
Kidney anl Grave* Compl
01 , a SAffE OURE Our
/A *O. ~-0- n m v/u* ' ■ * Q .-.(pr
t .nds without a riv il for all tt* 6 .V
lad Eyes. We have more bona- giie i j
han any medicine in the world. Q f Oft
dlress on receipt of stamps. *
nd 2s. 6d; Ointment, 2s. and Js p ft rfc ? ™
V. C. aadlTH, 17, Cook-st., Moore
GSEAT S-A-X
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 34-2 GEORGE RTREET
AM,AN A. MAKS HAL Li ds UU,
IMPOKTBKS ud MANUFACTUKKKB «(
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, *©,
Sim, and Ball rounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppenmittilng, BlaoksmMhla& Plunking,
Gaaflbtdnc, Tank and Girder Building, Rleotrie and Fnenmatle Bell-lttlng, of every desorlf uea,
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVB," and "PAM" OLOSNTS, 'VACUUM" WATNK*
WASTB, PRHVBNTBKS, fcO.
Sole Utah far Verity Krau, ratant Snhaeat Fan CewU, «m tlHh S»i«n ß
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
STDNHT,
Fuu FiinmuM am Pnion si Amraanon.
and H
ALFRED LAWRENCE
ISO COLUNSBTREKT, WEST,
Mblboubhb.
01 FITT-BTK***’
Sydsw*
BREWERS and Crated Water Makers Machinery and Applianoes. Books 0,1 *** j
making Dr. Grlefendorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Grief endorff s t
Dr. Grief endorflTs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Grief endorffs Quinine Wine. Utdoa and
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Maohlnes, Toast Presses and other sorts. Lignosote
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saooharomet***'
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion A**'
Lemonade. Ginger Ale, fco, Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of *
“ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS' JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WIN*
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GASBTTS. I
Toytoffirtf
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
# N
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, BOULBURK.N.S.W.
(/UKBT-OLAfla »ooammu<UOian tot ooaimarolkl
gentleman and outuuk PrtwMeelttln* titmii
i nnle room*. JAMWB SIMOus Prnnrlatu
4
A SONIC HOTEL, EAST STREET, ROCK-
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings i—The “ Western Cham-
»<en" cays i “ I oan recommend the Rockhampton
Usonlo to mjr western friends. 1
MOITK’S
KKW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TBSTIMOXIAM
Wi on the Soudan Contingent Hoiplta'
Oorpi; alio from eminent Dooton and
Student* from Sydney Heipital
MONK’S
rata mxTin,
I*. M. per Bottle.
Aik for It end take no mlMtitnta.
U en ineelneble enre. Sea taitbnoHiaU.
MOITK’S
Oholera, Dysentery, Dlarrbrae Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemists.
3s. fid. per bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE.
3s. fid. per bottle,
Sole Agents i
MATHIT-Y, NATHAN A 00.,
301 PITT STREET, SYDNEY)
iKD
U Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoining "Palletin'
Office, Pltt-street. Apply, this Offioe.
cOvMGN W 7
Is **, Afflicted with
Doionuz, Acrawa Panrtj"
Faos, or H*ad* r
Why suffer those excruolatißF r
bottle of .00 V>
OR. 80DTHAM S RHBtg** p #JV
will five Instant Relief and r
The Australian Remedy. J>r
necessary In Bottles, Is., Is* oa "
CURB FOR 43Ll S?^l
ROSE’S CEL KB BRATKO "
This Lotion Is the Best and
Eyes. It not only cores -
Blight, but strengthens the
tdmonlals from those who have **
its agency can be seen. Admlt®
Faoulty to be the safest and beat »***^
rnvuad b, U. Sol. *"*!*!!' 11
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutic
531 Georsr e-street
G, S.
Auctioneer & Real Prepare
5. OXJBltfj
VI S IlMAnilffll '
ID JR. R. J-
L.R ap" Edln””L.rTc's.
l.k u.f., Jtain., ju.k.u.D"
registered In Great Britain said J
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princes 0 --<ll -•»
Resident Medical Officer to the
Resident Medical umoer do duo
London, specialist for the treat®* 0
and Heart Diseases, &o. .rs 0 *' tv
Consultation by letter or P 0 jjlK p /■
charge, at Edgar House, No. =' I
Hunter-street, Sydney. I
T. F. WIESENER,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, Optician and Scientific
The Only Place in the Colony where Goods in this line are Manufactured by Steam!
Instrument Ma
INDIKD the Industrial Hive at 334 080 TG-E STREET has sprang into existence and grown to its present dimension and importance, “at the edge of the forest," unprofcect
Ufa and nnaffanbed bir Old World Oom-ietiilon. The M \in Support has been a favourable Public * Opinion, whioh has grown with the establishment. The Foundation w* 9
2J rears ago on the sound principles of PuAIN FIUURfES. MODERVFd! PROFITS, FIXED PR (CSS and CONST A.NT PCRSOVAL SUPERVISION. .
T F ’Wa intimate aid personal knowledge of oh a homa markets of E lgl and, Fraica ■ind Gimany (besides being a Cash Buyer), gives him advantage* possessed by few pe
and materials for their manufacture In Sydney are landed here without the < wo, three, or more middlemen’s profits. The latest and best variety in Watches, Jewellery, Spectacles, Texes
Field Glasses, Levels, Theodolites, etc. Special Goods made to Order at the Import Depot and Steam Factory of
GEORGE STREET, S T D N E T
WIESENER
3 3 4
IF .
