

$
OCEANA’
r
a,rrcL
ANNIA’
ol ttpany’s fine new Steamers, i Oceana ’ and i Britannia,’ each of 6600 tons, and
7000 horse-power will leave Sydney on
APRIL 30, AND MAY 14, 1888.
SSesp>ectlT7-el3r.
For
HHIOH
%
e y
With all the latest improvements, and have unsurpassed accommodation for First and Second Saloon Passengers.
Via COLOMBO and BRINDISI.
9
N
£3O tt 01.
, £54 to
'Wand & Back, from ,£54 to£ 115,
By P. and O. Steamers EVERY FORTNIGHT.
er
Particulars, apply to
V J - ? Agent, 247 George-street, Sydney,
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
TOBACCO
DIXSON& SONS
TOBACCO WORKS,
SYDNEY.
DTXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTORY
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES THE
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF, imported
into New South Wales, and hence the great sale
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco in
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
£> 1 < gold leaf-IaSSCI'IiU ~V *'• M sC
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No. 1 machine made,
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian leaf
and Paris rice tissue. Full size, sold by all
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettes.
i»*niiwt»tirrriiiUnn«riuitfu
ANUFACTURERS
lul .trm trailer PiiiTLiiTT
g.Witflßi
MiTiRWOiTiOiRS
UD , uaa
'GoiDfHSrfivpj
Trca'cie fj
RFff/SfRS
mpjiMwwtgm
/-
HCA9 omc£». factory, wewtown
Branch. George ST Svoney
OOLLINS-PLACE, COLUNS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Booms, Billiard Rooms.
promptly attended to. Night Porter, Telephone No. 013,
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress,
*
Letters and Telegrams
Business Announcements.
CaXTEIEIITSI-.^.m3-
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency —T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
\\T E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGIHC’h
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office :
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
CHRISTIE’S
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
pimply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
PAIN
MOULTON’S FAIN FAIL'S
CUBES AJkjL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &0.,
and taken internally cures DIARRHGffiA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
Internal aches and pains.
aF 90»6 «fr»erywt»€fg
|. I, MOULTON, SOU PROPRIETOR,
(fcIELBO DBbE A-ND OY»NEVi
PAINT
usiness Announcements.
fJIHK REMINGTON &.TYPE-WRITER.
Saves labour, stationery, and time,Twriting much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kenb-ebreeb.
T> M. RILEY
* (labe of bhe’Detecbive Force)
Privabe Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Bnsiness Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. Prom R. M. R.'s lone experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully ana
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
A SOmSIBI RIMED?
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days ?
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s, 6d., 55., and 10s.
BnfEICXZJ* i M | 3,.«• M ,;' :..
JSiVihi'* CUREp’ORf BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H, A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 G-eorge-street, only.
Hotels.
Belle Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Opposite Parliament Houses,' Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NINETY.
C A Waiter meets every Steamer.
Letters and Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
Mining exchange hotel,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
Commercial hotel,
TOWNSVILLE. QUEENSLAND.
First-class Accommodation for Commercial Gentle-
men and Families. Private Sitting-room without
extra charge. Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards
(Alcock’s). First-class Chef. Charges strictly
moderate. Wines and Spirits of the best brands.
Man meets every steamer.
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
JMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mr. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry & Bolton)
wishes to inform the numerous friends of the Firm
and the travelling public that he has gone to
Mount Morgan to take charge of the SUNBURST
HOTEL, which will henceforth be carried on under
his personal supervision. Sunburst Hotel, Mount
Morgan, centrally situated, and facing the cele-
brated mountain. Persons visiting the celebrated
Mountain will find every comfort ancl convenience
to greet them on their arrival. BILLIARD TABLE
and PIANO on the PREMISES, also STABLING
for the accommodation of THIRTY HORSES, and
a good PADDOCK within five minutes’ walk of
the Hotel. Coaches Daily from and to Rock-
hampton. Note the address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST H O T E L,
Mount Morgan.
EOTIL
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
B irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor.
JAY’S PRINOB OP WALES’ HOTEL,
ST. B ILDA.
THIS first-class Hotel offers superior accommo-
dation to visitors and residents, being in a
healthy and central position, fronting the Bay,
near Esplanade and Baths, and within five minutes’
walk of the St. Kilda Railway Station. Private
suites of apartments, ladies’ drawing-room, gentle-
men’s smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL, OF ART HOTEL,
M A C K A Y.
UNSURPASSED Accommodation for Com-
mercial Travellers and Families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy Meets Every Steamer.
I make comfort of Travellers a Special Study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
/CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
N.S.W. First-class Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets
every train, J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms,
PALACE
TOWNSVILLE,
HOTEL,
QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)|'
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
) great) Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows 6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6d.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Comer of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
E
XCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Ho 1 el Building erected in above
towD, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets,
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress.
Hotels.
G'MMtKCIAI
for com® 6 '
First-class accommodation jo* rji
gentlemen and p r oprie Mr '
- gentlemen and others,
sample rooms. JAMES SIMCh •
M
ASONIC HOTEL, PrW*"'
HAMPTON.»
Wayside Gleanings The
pion says : “I can recommend t
Masonic to my western friends,
jy/JOUXT MORGAN HOTEL, QUE®^j
Under the distinguished Peonage
cellency Sir A. Musgrave E-.O- 1
dation for 60 visitors. Two-stoiej Q
the balconies a splendid view pan
the celebrated mountain of gold, pgsfl
minutes’ walk of the company ~) aj n p ‘oc
and mail coaches dally from
Kibra railway-stations. V* ■ 1
prietor, of the firm of Monckton
Business Announce 1116
em s
im
m
m
M
0
Sydney, N. S. w
Marshall Broth bts, . t yro olll -!,^
Gentlemen, Not feeling wel> D g |
of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, e*\J f
vised to take it. The p' oof £ re .{glilf ‘'V
expectation, and I am now tho 1 P
of its grand staying and strengt
Yours verj' truly,
Ex-Champion Oarsman
HE ORIGINAL
OBTAINS®
FIRST CLASS
O « '
HIGHEST DECREE O'
•>
ISTHEBESTINTH*
NONE OTH^f
e [
HAMUfACTURED
Haiv.cuh S' * X *4fk
_ SbldbjrAD £foc«
High-Class Dentistry.
mmci/P
CO,IE. L S3.
MARSH ALh
133 ELI ZAB
nd 01 ’
L’oetVr painlessly’extracted u
tas daily


The Bulletin
Vo » T
SATURDAY, APRIL 14, 1888.
Prioe, 6d
“THE EXPRESSION WAS NOT BLASPHEMOUS FOR A WONDER IT WAS HALF A PRAYER. HALF THE EXPRESSION OF STRONG INWARD
ACONY." -Vide “Mr and Mrs. Sin Fat.”


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
‘'Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO*
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
{payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 If 6
Quarterly ... ... 06 6
Cheque*, Draft*, etc,, and (ill Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
JMerary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' 1 CorresjMjndence " column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Parayrajths, Letters, or Newspaper-Clipping*. All
communications trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
•f The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address Is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undei stand that
ne arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct doTiir. Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
ran have The Bulletin quisled regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
Ui interfere.
ifi^aUetca.
SATURDAY, APRIL 14.
The March of the Mantehoorian.
“ And the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt.”
I lowly, very slowly, some few Australians
re beginning to feel dimly what the Chinese
rvasion means. They are painfully recog-
ising the tremendous significance of the
act that the territory of China, vast as
t- is, is too circumscribed in area to maintain
fiueh longer its teeming millions, and they
re torpidly awakening to a faint apprecia-
ion of the emigratory schemes of the Im-
>erial authorities at Peking. Speaking re-
ently on the Chinese question in the New
iouth Wales Legislature, Sir Henry Parkes
ua.de the following observations regarding
he nature of the impending impingement of
he Mantchoorian on Australian shores :
“He was inclined to think that Chinese settlement in
uistralia was assuming a form entirely new. He col-
acted his information from the visits of the Chinese Com-
ittssioners some months ago, and from some other events
i other parts of the world of which he had knowledge."
nhe “other events” refer undoubtedly to
he.passing by. the United States Legislature
>f a bill prohibiting the employment of
Chinese labourers for a term extending over
he next twenty years. This prohibition
will, of course, materially augment the
stream of Chinese emigration to Australia.
All these things caused Sir Henry to think
hat the Chinese Government itself was pro-
noting what was now taking place in the
Northern Territory.
“ Very probably their action was prompted by the
lesign that by sending considerable numbers of Chinese
to some remote part of the Australian territory—remote
from European population—they (the Chinese) might
become strong enough to form a kind of Chinese colony.
. . . He held, and he believed most people would be of
the same opinion, that, on account of her extremely large
population, China would be only too glad to find an outlet
where she > ight possibly form a new Chinese Empire, or
t any rate found a Chinese settlement.”
* • •
This is the great danger ! Sir Henry
Parkes hesitates to apply the remedy He is
afraid of offending something or somebody !
He poses as the worshiper of the British Em-
pire—the interests of England must be con-
sidered ! Other colonial premiers hesitate
in deference to the capitalistic rings at present
exploiting the Northern Territory. But
commercial interests, whenever they come
into collision with a question involving the
existence of a people, of a civilisation, must
fall to the ground, be they the commercial
interests of a nation or of a private company.
The capitalist cannot justify bis existence
save by the cant phrase that without his aid
labour could not operate on the sources of
production. That is his excuse for his being :
he employs labour. In the Northern terri-
tory he employs—what ? Chinese labour!
With impatient greed of gain he explains
that the Northern Territory could not be
developed without Chinese labour. Is there
any necessity for developing it in so much
hurry ? With what feverous baste this nine-
teenth-coutuiy monkey gulps down his
store of nuts with no thought for to-
morrow's needs. The Northern Territory has
waited many centuries for the advent of the
white man ; must Nature be despoiled of
her garnered riches within the pulse-throb
of a moment { From the capitalistic stand-
point, what a pity is it that the kreese-armed
pirates who infested these mangrove-fringed
bayous and sheltered creeks two or three
hundred yeai's ago had not here settled and
bred a hardy race of unscrupulous cut-
throats-—so that the Northern Territory
might be developed.
• * *
The truth is we look at all history as a
fable with which to lull a child asleep. We
forget that these Chinese of whom we speak
so lightly have marched as conquerors tens
of decades since over the broad plains of
Asia ; their brethren in race have sacked the
stateliest cities of southern Europe, and a
not remote branch of their family has for
centuries been established on the confines of
the frozen zone. Travelling on the frontier
of two empires it is hard to say where the
Chinaman leaves off and the Russian begins.
The Tartar, the Mongolian, has played a
great part in the world’s settlement. He is
a nomad and an emigrant, and if he came to
the Northern Territory he would come to
stay. No longer has he America in which
to cast his overlapping millions, and the
twenty-five-hundredth of a billion is pressing
outwards from the centre to the sea, swarm-
ing up to the ports along the highways,
like the Egyptian plagues of locusts
or frogs, to pour down in a cease-
less gulf-stream of humanity through the
flood-gates of Port Darwin and to deluge this
Austral land. A cloud now no bigger than
a man's hand looms up in the northern sky
—the corner of the pall of Mongolian dark-
ness which shall cover the face of this conti-
nent. Yet people treat the whole question
with apathy, or approach it in an unphiloso-
phical mood which interests itself in the
non-marriage of Chinese immigrants or the
immorality of fan-tan and opium-smoking!
1 * •
The Chinese are not moral from our Euro-
pean stand-point. That they are not desir-
able as fellow-citizens we readily admit ; but
these are small points from which to view
the Mantchoorian deluge. The Chinese at
present descending upon us are but re-
peating an experiment. The Celestial
is rehearsing an episode of the past.
These people are accustomed to emigrate
and to drive before them the people of other
nations. They have often done it before.
Their empire is not a creation of yesterday.
Tradition says that it was founded by Shi-
Hoang-ti. who lived two centuries and a-
lialf before our era. They still regard them-
selves as conquerors. They speak still of the
aboriginal nations that inhabit the moun-
tainous tracts of the interior as barbarians,
much as the ancient Greeks spoke of the
races they drove before their Dorian jave-
lins. According to their own account the
Chinese were once but a small horde of roving
barbarians themselves, wandering about
the forests of Tibet, without dwellings,
clothed in skins, ignorant even of the use of
fire, feeding on roots and insects, more
degraded than the meanest of the known
tribes of men. But by repeated victories
they gradually emerged from this state of
barbarism and extended their povver over the
petty states which now constitute their
great and wealthy empire : at the time
of Confucius, 350 years before the birth of
Christ, they had not conquered the country
to the north of the Yang-tse-Kiang.
• * *
From the great Asian plateau Tartars
w ere always setting forth to despoil the more
settled territories to the West and to the
South. Their leaders have sometimes
written their names in blood on the hoof-
trodden plains of Europe. Attica, Jenghis
Khan, and Timour have flaunted the pig-
tail in the face of Pope and Kaiser, and pro-
faned the sanctuaries of Christendom with
their strange Tungusian oaths. The past
history of the Tartar race is eloquent with
the records of valour and enterprise, and
under different conditions who can say
what apex of civilisation it may not again
achieve 1 It is absurd to denounce the China-
man as a barbarian. No good can come
from this practice of under-rating the mag-
nitude of the danger looming ahead. The
Chinese Empire is very old, and the
parent race is very virile. It is capable of
extraordinary culture. One cognate nation,
the Japanese, lias made wonderful strides in
modern civilisation within the past few years,
and the Mongol has always shown himself
acutely imitative. In Hungary he is not to
be distinguished, save by his greater force of
character, from his Aryan fellow-subjects
of the Hafhburgs. As Turk he has lost the
nomadic contour of his face, and has
gradually bred characteristics often errone-
ously claimed as pointing to a Caucasian
origin.
• * •
“ The stream of emigrants pours forth,”
says Max Nordau, “from the German sea-
ports like the life-stream from a deadly
wound in the body of a nation, jet after jet,
in constantly increasing volume, and the
Government is powerless to arrest or control
it.” It is different with China. While Ger-
many lacks men, China has too many, and
the Chinese Imperial authorities are assist-
ing them in their exodus, Many years, many
centuries, have the Chinese tilled the earth
until agriculture has with them become one of
the fine arts. They get from the soil more than
any other race of men. But now. vast as China
is, exhaustive as is the mode of tillage, the
Empire groans beneath its seething human
burden and reminds it by occasional
years of failure that it wants a rest. Four
hundred millions of men can spare, without
more ado than a giant a pint of blood, some
60 or 00 millions of their number. They
turn their eyes no longer eastward to
America. They come south and wander in
their myriads into the Northern Territory of
Australia. They do it so silently, so gradu-
ally, that their advent makes no more noise
than a lullaby breathed over the cradle of a
sleeping child and, like the child, Australia
sleeps tm. We are too near ourselves to see
the ultimate meaning of a contemporary
movement. We neglect to throw the present
into perspective and view it from the stand-
point of the future. We slight the lessons
of the past and forget that—in the language
of Emerson - “ Man is explicable by nothing
less than all his history.”
* * •
The Chinese movement in Australia is
similar to the Jewish advance on Canaan, the
Dorian advance on Greece, the Grecian ad-
vance oil India, the Saxon and Danish and
Norman advances on England, the English
advance on India and America and Aus-
tralia, the Russian advance on everything
that can be eaten. But we have been fore-
warned. There is always a simmer before
the national cauldron boils over. “ The
thought is always prior to the fact,” and the
thought has been well advertised. The
Chinese are engaged on a second Argonautic
expedition in search, like ancient Jason, of
a second Golden Fleece. We ought to
arouse ourselves to the magnitude of the
problem. The Chinaman has grown hungry
and he is now looking around for a meal.
Curious facts underlie the charts of empires.
As a modern philosopher has remarked :
“ The nomads of Africa were constrained to wander by
the attacks of the gadfly, which drives the cattle mad,
and so compels the tribe to emigrate in the rainy season,
and to drive off the cattle to the higher sandy regions.
The nomads of Asia follow the pasturage from month to
month. . . . The pastoral nations were needy and
hungry to desperation."
Australia is to the Chinaman “ a land of
Havilah where there is gold.”
• •
» .
It is no question of marriage or of sanita-
tion. We must study history actively and
not passively. This whole Chinese problem
is a problem embodying the old racial war-
fare. The Chinaman is a mask of the
eternal human riddle. Nothing is iso-
lated. “Time dissipates to shining
ether the solid angularity of facts.”
The acts of the past, suggested by
the wide-resounding names about which
clings the aureole of antiquity, are being re-
hearsed to-day. We are now, in Australia,
engaged in making a crucible, and in it shall
be molten the metal with which the mould
of the future will be filled. The civilised
lives of races crystallise the memory of then-
past coliquests. And if we forget that the
Chinaman was once an invader, lie does not!
Nothing in the world is fixed. The Tartars
of the past have pitched their camps at the
gates of Vienna. The Tartars of the present
may found an empire on the banks of the
Darling, and build a greater Peking on the
shores of the Great Australian Bight.
* * *
Brassey says that there are portions of
our continent which must be developed by
coloured labour if they are developed at all.
We might admit the truth of this, and take
into our own hands the .traffic in Chinese
slaves. We might form them into gangs and
drive them to work beneath the lash, and
make what profit we could out of a trade in
Mongolian flesh and blood, but history is
plethoric with examples showing that the
way to ennoble a nation is to enslave it. We
have read of the revolt of Siwrtacus and
the Roman slaves, of the numberless insur-
rections of the Janissaries, of the rising of
the mayors of the palace who founded the
Carlovingian line of France ; of the re-
volt of the Mamelukes, of the eattle-
houghings of the down-trodden Irish and
the bold meance to the French in San
Domingo by' the slave general Toussaint
L’Ouverture. There is but one course—
prohibition of Chinese labour on Australian
soil. We must follow the lead of America
in dealing with this question !
• • •
If we had honest and patriotic politicians we
might be able, by the irksomeness of sanitary
laws, to make life intolerable to Chinese im-
migrants to this continent. It might be pos-
sible, if we had different men in power, to
impose a tax on every employer of Chinese
labour representing the difference between
the Mongolian’s subsistence-wage and the
price of bona fide white labour. But no law,
however stringent, could be so administered
as to be incapable of evasion, therefore there
is but one course which all true Australians
must inflexibly demand, and that course is a
prohibitive one. We are met, on the part of
our legislators, at the very threshold, with
fear and trembling as to consequences. They
admit the seriousness of the situation, but
immediately blab commonplace about the
greatness of the British Empire ! We must
take our fate into our own hands, and set at
naught this phantom of subserviency and
pusillanimity. Sir Henry Parkes, with other
Australian premiers, “hesitates,”if hedoesnot
fear, to offendthe Empire, and he endeavours
to fence the Chinese question in a humble cir-
cular, abjectly imploring England to inter-
vene and kindly ask China to send no more
Mantchoorian recidivides to Australian
shores. The people must not stand this
craven parleying with their future wel-
fare. “A man,” said , •
well, ‘‘never rises so mgn ,
knows not whither he is going-
likewise true of a nation !
The Workman’s Indictment
of the Chinaman.
THE REASONS WHY THE MONGOLLO
MUST GO
They are. Alien*.
The Australian community is conl^ er y &P
from every quarter of the glo • cc"' lll^
and every tribe is represented : llC ] e xed oJ \
Every colour and every faith a our pop®
roll of citizenship. The e^em , )r( huar.V f j
tion are heterogeneous to an ex 0 f tWj
yet so quickly do Australian tbe
and modes of living prevail u I j^jmself 0 a
that he almost immediately
own national habjtgsoastpbeal®o» jgjUl daP
able from the native-born in his • jJor"^ l3 t w
tions. Germans, French, Italians, «
these, and a hundred other*. d
patriotism on Australian idea ■ > n ity. , .ups
action on the model of the co j fhec* 1 yl
another generation shall have' I’ 0 ujj
of these one-time foreigners shy 0 f nati v vg er ,
ren who can claim four genera a t
Australian ancestry. but the ,- jn
from all other immigrants. / ma ke t ‘ ie 1 . 0 |
city street, and he and his fellc are B >
like a Canton dwelling. He -AW"
rap for the . customs of j n
he lives precisely as he , g j or W
He will not surrender his chops - t were
fork ;he hangs on to his opium - ca re'
the recognised national vices. foe de>B |i
for the prevailing laws of n ? arr3 ’ de cellC „jrf'
to know the Australian estnna n j
he can do so he wheedles, attacks a
unfortunate child and makes n . * nQ sud 1
the host of life-blasted derelicts, e»| $
is available he and his fellow , a
ment on principles which shoeh u( i a» a | sf ?
men. A Chinese can never un g 0
interests himself in local politic • /j e dh e
free to carry on his business unn Py t j, afl l#
nought besides. He never eve rigl’vjjj
ciation of his own worth and h ■ . 10 n | J
community. Local workmen
only eight hours, and he might told
he won’t. If his Mongolian£> a .& oU t tb e *
so he would work 15 Fours, withou
consideration for local cu ( j elTl oc^s
mechanics insist upon the meft ns JJr
ciple of self-government by j lo Jb U
elected trade-representatives ? 1 ddvuK
is content to lie one of a l aso <‘M
capitalist who hires out his me , t d«
4 'vorking bullock,. * er
sojourn he is Chinese. He ne n n „ liewj,
community; he has no thoug .y ft n .jj
common with them. He com ‘ ft ]jen
he is not one fraction less ar
parts. And his continuance j a ted 1 s K
undesirable for that cause. Ai .
at any time to become hostile, al id ty y
tical danger : traitors in the ca P rei#", j 9 \iC
garrison are not wisely suffered to n
there is the social danger. t 8 of c II) e £
quire to be provided when two • s- 1 pjir
tralians and Chinese, lnhab^
Already double sets of laws '“win? 10 foE
tion are in force : the one class , j,jesa ) A
the other to all who are - ten aH ce . l rvl'%
sake of security, and for the W a , Qr th e )e <A
! : or the sake of social peace, an it, 10
ng of the Australian charac _ > . in j t .r
that there should be hornog e * p e J
munity—that aliens should » rr itory■
overrun or even to inhabit our \
They Are But Sojol'R >tK |\ j„ it!
The Chinese have but one 0 a ]ce hfrfCW
Australia. That object is to pavi*#, Vy
short a time as possible, so tha re*' 1 -tM 1 #!
few hundreds of pounds they 1 y for 0 { j
and live in a milu species of H ■ oPmar,'
their days. Every penny P 1 ? Jan prffue
here and saved by the Mongol . en t „y.
money lost to the country,, for J
departure arrives the capital
sovereigns to be melted « t be e fj
crucibles. The extent to wd . y
exploited by this means it I! ’, orr ied a Jy/
cover, for the sovereigns thus &JU
figure in any statistics. 11
veyed 1)V their owner, who, _ uefl&J
of a draft to China, saves ate ul *ge k
him for the risk involved.
ownership is not a circuin!- caP’ n-'j!?'
everlasting abstraction of , a luC L, ! 1 ',;,.
Chinese. Alines are of no re
treasure is obtained by alien* i 0 a
our midst without contribu
transport their savings to then J,
take thither the sovereign* ' .V; \
sold. Yet tliere are some (Ji a-
remain in Australia permane* s g
stay because their grimy ‘ - 0 t ! ,el , I pi’ lll fii
than they would be Celestia- > j
cause no laws in Australia 1 . Cb n
ing, a vice severely penalised tl®>
fore, as a general rule, it 1S £ r iii^ e V Wi
Chinaman who becomes a 1 . oU ld
just the kind of man who .
from landing at all. His®j * t » f® j o) i Vi
much fuss should be made a o ]}j e f jp!?,
coming to Australia, whiks
is made to the annual ia ", r ; n iiP aJ t pAe s
Chinese criminals. More
every month by the China b?
comes in the whole tweb’e n ... #
routes put together. >I A
TftE Chinese Do j- (
For which many white gi l . alll jot. $
But there are others who Y. u id»
To be a Chinaman’s wife u gh, a,"' 1 A
of a hundred, be affliction e ti ,a iiO I ', Ai
tress to such a man would x- • t 0 D .Jj i■!
if such relation is misery
aid of opium, degradation y Jb )f ; ~,< p
lowest depths in the ordi» a ; l ■ -y
favoured by the Chinese
months ago told of a Mong » ai>- Ji> .p,
whose wife “Maly Ann '
same 15.” This disgusting
further pursued. The deej j je cc’. je <. A
Chinese celibacy inflict* 0 t»k e
be plain enough to all.' , j o* ce ae *. e
think. And if it is deal* , cR r t
proofs of the vitality of jmy fyc'itJ,
visiting acquaintance wi 6 .
locations in .Australia w r LiiceP 1 ;t * h
purpose. Bone Newcastle 1
fled,” as th, wired message 1 c t iy
Borne half-rude Sic V I
smoking opium- 1“, ,e , p s o J
if they are startled_ n ino tf ( A
that. This i* a 1111


monplace exhibition in comparison with what
might have been reported if any systematic ex-
ploration and observation had been attempted.
To see vice in its'most revolting shape, to view
obscenity in its most loathsome phase, to observe
human degradation in its most deeply disastrous
presentment, the Chinese quarter must be resorted
to, and if anything more vile than the sights oc-
casionally to be seen there is on view any where
else, then that other place can hardly be above-
ground on this planet.
They Smoke Opium and run Gambling
Swindles.
We have plenty of vices of our own in Aus-
tralia without permitting the Chinese to add to
the number. Yet they are now disseminating in
the community vices and modes of vice entirely
new to any European country. Opium-smoking
is the greatest curse of China, and it is fastening
every year on to new victims of our own race.
The history of the Mongolian who uses opium
here is usually something of this sort. He has
contracted the habit in his native land, and has
there been punished for indulging it. Then, as
opium is the greatest criminal incentive the world
knows, he has committed some robbery, murder,
or other diversion, and has had to come
over to Australia to save his head. In China
he would be punished merely for smoking, for
bitter experience has taught the authorities that
opium and crime are to one another as cause
and effect ; here he can smoke as much as he
likes, and commit many grave offences with-
out police interference —naturally, therefore, he
finds Australia a better place for him than
his native land under similar circumstances
would be. Therefore it is that these colonies claim
as immigrants the worst and most debauched
malefactors that China can produce. The
opium-smoker generally has something to do with
fan-tail or pak-ah-pu. That is about the most
profitable kind of swindle that is capable of per-
formance by a lazy man. And the police do not in-
terfere to any appreciable extent. A yearly sub-
sidy, by way of hush bribe, placed in the proper
quarter, prevents any much-advertised “raids”
succeeding to the gamblers’ disadvantage. The
bribe is charged to working expenses; just as a
white man insures against fire, so a Mongolian
insures against the operation of the law. Chinese
run fan-tan tables day and night all through the
week, and the law is silent against them; but if
two newsboys are caught tossing for coppers the
entire legal machine is put in motion against
them by zealous policemen. If the newsboys sent
a big enough bribe to the proper quarter they
could toss ha’pence till the crack of doom, but as
the newsboys do not swindle or rob anyone by
to3sing coppers the diversion will not stand the
regular official fee, so the youths are promptly
punished. As long as there are Chinese here they
will carry on public robbery by means of their
peculiar games, and as long as persons in the
proper quarter receiv e their share of the plunder
the law will be permanently incapable of stopping
the extension of the disastrous fan-tan and pak-
ah-pu industry.
They are Vile, Foul, and Filthy.
No one but a Chinaman could live like a China-
man. Any other man would within a week get
small-pox, typhoid, leprosy, and fourteen other
means of sudden or lingering death. Generations of
filthy living have inured the Chinese constitution
to most of the diseases which existence amid all
kinds of organic corruption would entail on any
other kind of man. But harmless as his native
filth is to the yellow-skin it is nevertheless the
means of death to a lot of his neighbours. Pes-
tilencenever languishes for want of a breeding-place
so long as there is a colony of Chows any where
in the neighbourhood. But here again, in most
Australian cities, the Chinese are highly favoured.
White men by the dozen are constantly fined for
keeping filthy premises, while Children of the Sun
live on unsummoned and unfined. A house which
only contains, say, 40 square feet per inhabitant—
which inhabitants regard washing as the one un-
pardonable sin—cannot be anything else but dirty
to the limits of loathsomeness, and until these
aliens are forced to live so that sufficient space is
permitted to each resident, our cities will continue
to contain the fever-beds characteristic of Chinese
settlement. The small-pox pestilence which issued
from Chinatown, Lower George-street, Sydney, is
a mere foretaste of wljjit may any day happen --a
simple demonstration of the noisomeness which
seethes through a house crush-full of Chinese. As
he has vices of his own so also the Chinaman is
the unique possessor of a set of diseases which,
so far, have not visited white men to any very
noticeable extent. Leprosy, the chief of these
hideous curiosities, has not yet passed into com-
mon use among Europeans, but there is every
reason to anticipate that with a continuance of the
present order of things, the whole community
may one day be inoculated with the maladies
which the Chinese now hold as a monoply.
They are Independent of Local Laws.
Already we have shown that in the matter of
gambling, and also with regard to the condition of
their dwellings, the Chinese are unharmed by the
penalties of the law. But their impunity goes
much farther than that. When a Chinaman goes
insolvent, his account-books might as well be
burned for all the use they are to his creditors.
The estate of such a bankrupt generally pays
about two grains of dividend to the ton avoirdu-
pois of debt. No one can tell how the swindle is
worked, but everyone concerned is usually con-
vinced beyond all doubt that another such bank-
ruptcy would make the debtor’s fortune. In all
matters of civil law, too, the Chinese are at an
immense advantage. Considerations of truthful-
ness rarely prevent their sajdng whatever is re-
quired to prove their case, and so perfectly are
they habituated to lying that their perjury is
generally strong enough to stand alone. They
are sworn in six different ways, but they
swear the same old perjury—save in con-
spicuously exceptional cases—every time. One
thing that more than any other shows their
disregard for Australian law is their indifference
to that noble truth that the man who treads
British soil gains his freedom. That rule has an
exception in the case of these soulless cravens
only. The great majority of Chinese immigrants
are absolute slaves when they land here, and they
continue in that state until after years of serfdom
they gain their liberty. Meantime, they “ toil
onward as toils the dull bullock,” without a will
or an option of their own, the mere chattels of
the master who imported them. He sells them
for so much a week to whomever will buy, the slaves
themselves having no voice whatever in the
matter. Slavery does exist in the British
dominions. We have it in Australia, and always
will have it until Mongolian slave and master
alike are cleared out to some place where their
vile presence has some charm, or, at least, some
toleration. One reason why they maintain their
successful resistance to Australian law arises from
their national peculiarities and habits of life.
Their houses in the cities have passages, doors,
and retreats innumerable, so that to search for a
criminal there is like trying to catch the wily rah-
bit on his native heath. And their Asiatic cunning
makes them more than a match for any European
detective or police. In George-street, Sydney, a
Chinese shopkeeper has been known for years as a
wholesale receiver of stolen goods, but never yet
has he been detected in the crime. It took the
police; more than half a dozen years to catch one
burglar, a Chinaman, who made no secret of his
nefarious means of livelihood. Even by their
physiognomy Chinese criminals are assisted, for
identity is always a difficult matter. Except to
the practised eye, all Chinamen are about equally
ugly and otherwise similar. When the Custom-
house officers are trying to collect the poll-tax
they are so far at sea on the question of identity
that the examination is a farce of very consider-
able proportions. If the Chinese are to stay here
it will be necessary to construct an entirely new
and very highly improved class of policemen to
look after them,,
Competition with them is Degrading to Aus-
tralian Workmen.
This is a hard fact that every citizen has to re-
cognise. The Chinese won’t elevate their labour
to the Australian standard, therefore if competi-
tion does occur Australian labour must be de-
graded to the; Chinese level. It is with some per-
sons the fashion to applaud the 'Chinese for their
“industry.” But there is a fallacy inherent in
such praise. The Chinese are not more indus-
trious than white men while working, but they
work so many hours longer that they do more
work per day. If union men worked during the
same time that Chinese work the latter would be
absolutely distanced in regard to the amount per-
formed. If “blacklegs” are to be commended
for “ industry ” because they work 10 hours, the
Chinese may be still more highly applauded for
working 12 hours, but all the same the industry of
“blacklegs” is all that can be credited to the
aliens. Hour for hour, no one of them is fit to
work in the same street with an Australian.
Still for all their inferiority they are a
terrible menace to the independence of native
labour. On many stations they have either sup-
planted white men or brought wages down to
“tucker” rates; in some trades, cabinet-making
especially, they have practically driven the Aus-
tralians out of the field, and it is only a question
of time when they will invade other important
areas of employment. And the capitalist who
once employs Chinamen is spoilt by the taste he
gets of the blood of cheap labour. Bike the man-
eating tiger he can never return to the conditions
that used to satisfy him. He grinds the bones of
his fellow-men to make his bread. Thereafter
Labour must accept Chinaman’s pay or else starve.
If white men won’t work at his rates he can get
plenty of Chinese who will.
There are 440,000,000 of them.
Emigration from China has not yet begun.
Only a few stragglers have as yet ventured to
leave their native land; so far, there are but 50,000
Chinamen on this continent. For the few odd thou-
sands whohave come to Australia there are millions
yet to come unless effective means of keeping them
back are adopted. To the Chinese, Australia is a
sort of Tom Tiddler’s ground,, where they can
save as much in one year as they could earn in
half a lifetime at home. As yet the richness of
this continent is only vaguely rumoured in the
Flowery Land. But every year spreads the news
more widely, for every steamer takes back to
China some scores of yellowskins who have ac-
cumulated what are to them handsome fortunes
in a few years of residence here. The more the
n,3ws spreads the greater will be the rush for the
new Eldorado ; the Chinese invasion of the
past is not a circumstance to the inevitable
invasion of the future. National and re-
ligious prejudices long restrained the Chinese
within their own borders, but these prejudices
are being broken down by the fierce and
growing lust after riches. The patriotism and
national prejudices of the Irish long availed to
make them stay at home stewing in their country’s
misery, rather than seek happier homes in the
New World. But when the news of the wealth
and peace obtainable in the great Republic be-
came known, the stream of emigrants from Ire-
land was permanent and colossal. So it will be
with China. When the knowledge of wealth to
be gained beyond the sea spreads, whole armies of
Mongolians will come yearly hitherwards. A
paltry poll-tax will not keep them back; the
amount levied is only a small percentage on the
amount they can earn. The capitalist whose
chattels they are will pay the £lO and add it to
the price of their freedom. And there is a well-
known, much-used way of escaping this impost.
Naturalisation papers are obtainable at a fixed
rate, so also are the receipts paid by returned ex-
ploiters of the Australian continent. By one
means or the other the majority of yellowskins
will contrive, as at present, to land free. We
cannot tax British subjects so long as we ourselves
are British dependents. Hongkong and all other
British settlements are ready to give certificates to
any Chinese who wish to rob us of the poll-tax as
a prelude to clutching at our national wealth.
And of these Chinese there are not less than
440,000,000 !
These are some of the reasons which make it
imperative that Australia should shut her gates
against the yellowskins. We want no new vices
here, we want no new diseases imported ; we de-
sire to conserve the independence of Australian
labour, and to prevent the destruction of such
morality as our citizens possess ; we want to make
and keep this as a land fit and pleasant for white
men to live in, and for all these reasons and more
—embracing the great' ethnological problem
of a racial struggle—it is indisputably cer-
tain that Australians unitedly mu3t crystallise
into law that laconic command— “ The Chinese
Must Go. ”
Editor Bulletin.—Sir,—From certain
“Chinese” items you have lately published, I
incline to the opinion that your readers in the
South have no idea of the extent of this crying
evil in Northern Australia. Here —on the Ethe-
ridge River- -we have Chinese butchers, bakers,
storekeepers, cooks, carriers, draymen, feeders,
engine-drivers, miners—in fact, every occupation of
the Australian white man is being encroached upon
all over the Etheridge goldfield. I have thought out
this Chinese question long since, and come to the
conclusion that were it not for the selfishness and
greed of the European population the Chinese
would have been cleared out of the country long
ago. Does anyone suppose that a good white
cook cannot be had on a goldfield, or white men
gardeners ? lam quite certain that if pay in
proportion to that given in other parts of Austra-
lia were offered here, there would be no dearth of
cooks or of members of any other profession;
but anything a Chinese does is done for so much
less than an Australian will do it for, and so. as
the Australian reduces his prices so as to try and
compete with the Chinese, the Chinese further
reduce their prices, for they know perfectly well that
for them to Uve they must undersell the Australian
workman. It is often said here, that we cannot
without Chinese to grow vegetables. Now,
tins is one of the most erroneous ideas ever pro-
mulgated. What! A white man not grow English
potatoes for 4d per lb., and very ordinary cabbages
from 6d to Is each? Then they say, “Why don’t
some white men start growing vegetables if it pays
so well. My answer is this, “ Many white men
know well enough that growing vegetables at pre-
sent prices would pay well, but if they started to
glow them, the Chinese would be certain to sell
tor less, because they must do so to enable them to
live, and so, in the end, the white man must go to
the wall, or rest content to work all day for a
teed of rice and a smoke of the opium-pipe.”
A tew years .ago a m.n named Mickey Blank
was employed driving a quartz-crushing mill here,
and by his ability, amiability, and conscientious-
ness, &c &c., and a little money, got to be owner
ot the aforesaid mill. Being a working man, and,
consequently, having a great antipathy to the
Chinese, of course he would have nothing do do
with them. Just so. But, you see, the Chinese
cut firewood for less than a white man would do
it, and, of course er—you see-—er —well you know
tr er > you can’t depend on the white man to cut
firewood just when you want it.” On the same
lines the Chinese were allowed to drive the engine
and feed the battery, and eventually did all the
work about the mill except the bossing, which
was done by Mr. Mickey Blank. No doubt you
want to know what had become of the glorious in-
dependent, free, and outspoken miners to allow
a " this- Well, the miners (small m, please) did
—nothing. They carted their stone to the mill to
be crushed the same as usual. Some bold and
reckless spirits even ventured to say that it was
decidedly wrong,” and, in fact, a “ d——
shame, but, of course, this was kept strictly to
themselves and a few confidential friends. The
aforesaid Blank is, as I write, shifting his mill to
a new field, where, no doubt, the same game
"ui u played ’ l jrov iding the local miners
\viii allow it. It remains to be seen whether
they have any grit or not. lam sorry to con-
fess, after several years’ experience of the
Queensland miners, that the animal too often bids
fair to degenerate into an out-and-out crawler,
Without life or energy, and my only hope is -that
the great rush to Croydon will eventually put
some new blood into the country. Now, Dear
Bulletin, I come to the most disgusting part of
all; pray keep it dark and let not the outsider
know of it. Whisper : “Wc have the leprosy
making headway amongst us.” There are no less
than three Chinese, lepers on the Etheridge, who
have passed their disease on to the abori-
ginals, who, in their turn, have, it is be-
lieved, passed it on. It is playing sad
havoc amongst them: the hands and feet of
black men are rotting - off, and there are other
sights to be seen so revolting that they make your
flesh creep whenever you think of them. The disease
has not shown itself among the Europeans as yet,
but many feel convinced that the symptoms must
shortly become visible, as the relations too often
existent between" the miners and the aboriginal
women must result in the further spreading of this
terrible disease, which, as everyone hereabout
knows, has existed in North Queensland for years.
In fact a Chinaman believed to be afflicted with
leprosy lives within two miles of Georgetown and
grows vegetables which are hawked around for sale
by his countrymen.—Yours, A N.Q. Miner.
The Mount, Bathurst, 27th March, 1888.
Editor Bulletin.- -Sir, —ln your last week’s
issue you give a very erroneous account
of the manner in which my late father ac-
quired this_ property. Had it referred to my-
self alone, I would not trouble to correct it; but,
as it throws a stigma on a revered parent, now
deceased, and also as you are at present writing
out an history of the early days of the colony, it
seems only right that I should give you a true
statement regarding this matter. My father
reached Sydney in May, 1825, in command of the
3rd Regiment or Buffs, and with the appointment
of Lieutenant-Governor. He also brought with
him an order from the Imperial Government for
the selection of 3000 acres of land in any part of
the colony he might desire. This quantity was
only 1000 acres more than was usually given to
those settlers who could deposit £lOOO to their
credit in some bank in Sydney for the few days
necessary to secure the grant. My father got his
3000 acres from the Duke of York as a reward for
his military services in the Peninsular War, where
he commanded the Buffs in two general actions,
besides minor affairs ; and he obtained a gold
medal for Albuera, in which battle his horse was
killed under him by a Polish Lancer. General
Darling left the colony soon after my father’s ar-
rival, and he acted as full Governor until Sir
Thomas Brisbane reached the port; but it was
not until long afterwards, viz., in 1827, that he
made his selection near Bathurst. The Macquarie
was taken up along its north bank at a very early
period, but the south side of the river was re-
served for a Government cattle-station, and no
one was allowed to cross the stream with-
out a pass from a magistrate. About the
year 1826 pressure began to be brought
for opening the lands on the Bathurst side
and my father secured a promise of first
selection ; but his multifarious duties in Sydney
long prevented his getting away to make it. I
have in my possession a letter to him from the
Governor, requesting, as a personal favour, that
he would run up to make his selection, as the
number of applicants for the new country had
become so great that they could not any longer be
restrained. He then made a hurried trip across
the mountains, and selected his 3000 acres on the
west side of the parish of Mount Pleasant, along
Evans’ Plains Creek, but not including the Monu-
ment Hill, where'his remains now rest. In 1828,
he was sent on to India with his regiment, but,
before leaving, he secured a lease of the remain-
ing portion of the parish, containing about 12,000
acres. On arrival at Calcutta he was appointed
commandant at Meerut, where he remained for four
years ; and, in 1832, when he was raised to the
rank of Major-General, he left the army on half-
pay, and returned to look after his grant of land
at Bathurst, intending shortly to return to Scot-
land for his family, whom he had left on his pater-
nal estate in Caithness. While arranging his
affairs we surprised him by our unexpected arrival
in Sydney, whither we had been forwarded, with-
out any authority, by his agent, Sheriff Horne.
Being now advanced in years, my father decided
to settle in the colony, and he then purchased the
9000-acre block, where the monument on the hill
and the mansion-house now stand, adjoining his
primary grant, at the upset price of ss. per acre ;
and it was not until 1838 that he secured the 2100-
acre block at the southern side of the parish, for
which he paid 12s. per acre, the upset price having
by that time been raised: This is the simple story
of the purchase of the Mount Pleasant estate,
and, as you have published a very different version
of it, 1 think I have a fair claim upon you to
investigate the facts, and to give the same publi-
city to the result of your inquiries.—Faithfully
yours, J. H. Stewart.
Louise Fuchs, a little girl of Metz, 14
years old, has just been condemned to eight days’
imprisonment for having insulted the late Em-
peror of Germany. The insult consisted in writing
a private letter to one of her little friends, in
which there was something disrespectful to Pious
William. Such sentences are quite common in
Alsace-Lorraine.
Frank Davis, the boss Queensland shearer,
who shears equally well with either hand, made
his best three days’ record with 58G sheep, 193 the
first day, 207 the next, and 180 the next. He says
the Wolseley shearing-machine is a bogey. You’ll
never be able to get it to shear more and better
than a good shearer, and it will require a skilled
worker for every machine ?
Bradlaugh calculates that if the whole
principal of the pensions and compensations paid
to the Dukes of Grafton had been put out at com-
pound interest, the total sum would pay off Eng
land’s National Debt and leave a big balance. In
stead of being invested for such a practical pur-
pose, it has unfortunately been swallowed up by
the descendants of a woman who persuaded
Charles the Second that he was her baby’s papa.
Strictly speaking, the Graftons are only entitled
to ss. per week from the Privy Purse, allowing
the first Dook’s “maintenance’’ to have been per-
petual. That’s a wrinkle for Bradlaugh.
Probably few, even among Londoners, are
aware that a Chinese quarter exists in the British
metropolis. It is a seventh-rate slum off the East
India Dock-road—a very small slum, but packed
with Mongols at the rate of 13 to a room, after
the fashion of the insanitary Asiatic, and it con-
tains the usual dozen opium-dens and three
or four fan-tan institutions. In the former
the visitor everywhere comes across the same
old spectacle—the pretty young English-womar,
who either is or is not married to the bos;;
Chinaman, as the case may be, and who has been
taught to smoke opium until she is withered and
yellow, and prematurely old and decrepit at the
age of 25. The Chinaman is beginning to take
root in London, and the Chinese curse will some
day come home to the nation which waged the
opium-war. The Chow spreads fa'ster than the
Gospel and stays a good deal longer, and where he
has founded a “quarter ” of his own nothing short
of dynamite will lift him out.
A certain well-known old-time N.S.W.
sporting identity is now as one resurrected from
the grave. For many years he was a victim to
grog, and ofttimes, in an up-country town, when
the publicans were prohibited from selling him
drink, he would buy certain fiery patent medicines,
so great was his thirst for ardent spirits. He was
a magistrate, and on one occasion appeared on
the bench in a state of intoxication. His brother
J.P.’s, who, strange to say, were sober to a man,
refused to sit when he made his appearance, and
left the court. Nothing daunted, he proceeded to
deal out justice to a number of inebriates, to whom
he addressed an eloquent homily on the evils of
intoxication, and then made tracks to the nearest
pub. to irrigate. The same night he himself was
lodged in the lock-up, and, no doubt, shared tin
same cell as his friends of the morning whom he
had sentenced to 24 hours. But a great change
has taken place. Not long ago he was induced to
forswear drink, and he is now one of the foremost
and best respected men in his township. Which
mayn’t be saying much, but it’s better than
nothing at all.
Australian Wreaths.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chancellor referred in a marked
manner to the touching signs of sorrow shown at
the Antipodes, and declared that it was unpre.
cedented in the history of the world that the
people of the Antipodes should desire to lay
wreaths and palms upon a monarch’s tomb
Cabler,ram to Australian Daily Press.
Surrounded by his servile peers
The sturdy uncrowned despot stood,
A man of iron, white with years
Built up with blood.
Jor lo.! the puppet he had reared
ow bent before a stronger will,
The pliant monarch millions feared
Lay cold and still.
Crim death had seized the hoary slave
Who claimed to rule by right divine ;
And quaffed the life-blood of the brave,
As men drink wine :
Whose vengeance starving women felt
In Danish homes bereft of bread,
Whose soul they cursed, as low they knelt
O’er Danish dead.
Who, drunken with the lives of men,
Had dared to take Jehovah’s name
And link it by his impious pen
To deeds of shame.
Who stood the type of those who quell
The noblest instincts of the mind ;
That they may make this world a hell
For human kind.
But death at last had claimed its due,
In state there lay a pulseless clod,
Whose soul had gone, with those he slew,
To meet his God.
And in the Reichstag Bismarck rose
To thank the Kings for woe expressed;
For lo ! the tyrants rent their clothes
For one suppressed.
When looking through the sombre pile,
Surprise about his features crept ;
For lo ! our democratic Isle
A tyrant wept.
And men who boasted they were free
Sent wreaths to deck his narrow room ;
And palm in hand, low bent the knee
At Rapine’s tomb.
Low laughed the statesman as he read,
While with a smile he bade them note
How freemen’s hearts for monarchs bled
In lands remote.
‘ ‘ So, ” with a sneer old Bismarck said,
“ The world at last has lived to hear
Young Freedom weep with downcast head .
On Kingcraft’s bier.”
KENNETH MACKAY.


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
We have given so much attention to the
antagonism between the Emancipists and the
Pure Merinos because, as our story goes on
it will appear that after the old convict lines
had been obliterated, and the country popu
lated by free immigrants, the aid antagonisn
between class and class was still maintainec
under different names. An instance soon
occurred to show how completely the officials
had been influenced by the ex-officers to op-
pose tlie amelioration of the convicts’ lot.
* * *
When Judge Bent succeeded the Judge-
Advocate of the same name, he estab-
lished a regular Supreme Court, and
one of his first acts was to deal with an ap-
plication from certain Emancipists. Cross-
ley, who was one of Macartliur’s victims,
and who had been released from the New-
castle coal-mines when Macquarie came,
with two other ex-convict attorneys named
Eagar and Charters, applied for permission
to practise as solicitors and barristers. Judge
Bent refused the petition on the ground that
an Act of George 1., to prevent persons con-
victed of felony from practising in the law-
courts, was in operation in the colony. “ I
do now solemnly declare,” he said, in giving
his decision, “ that I will not admit as at-
torneys of this Court, nor administer the
oaths to persons who have been transported
here as felons ; it is contrary to law, and no
circumstance and no necessity can exist so
strong in my mind as to induce me to it.”
* * •
The G overnor supported the emancipist
attorneys in their application, as the prin-
ciple on which he based his conduct required.
His contention was that the Act did not
refer to a penal colony established to give
emancipated offenders a chance of reforma-
tion. He wrote to the Secretary of State on
the subject, explaining his position and the
policy of his rule, as well as the machina-
tions of parties opposed to that policy. For-
tunately for Macquarie, his enemies were
not beforehand with him this time. He had
file full approval of the Home authorities for
Ins experiment, in the reformation of eman-
cipists, and, inasmuch as the conduct of
Judge Bent was entirely opposed to the suc-
cess of that experiment, that.person was at
once recalled. Earl Bathurst, writing in the
name of the Prince Regent, considered the
removal of Judge Bent yas necessary to
mark the sense and disapprobation which
they entertain of the measures which, so in-
discreetly for the colony and himself, the
raid Geolfry Hart Bent, Esq., thought it
necessary to adopt,” The same letter also
conveyed to this luckless wight “the high
displeasure of his Royal Highness, and his
positive recall by his Majesty’s Government,
on account of conduct which, in their
opinion, could admit of no justification.” So
Judge Bent sailed out through the Heads,
and was seen of Botany Bay no more.
J udge Barron Field succeeded. He was
a friend of Lamb, and knew Hazlitf and
Coleridge, and He Quincey. Dr. Lang, who
doesn’t seem to have liked him, said he had
the folly to consider himself a sort of uni-
versal genius, and in particular a poet. At
all events lie published a volume of so-called
poetry which he named “Botany Bay
Flowers.” One of the “Flowers” is an
address to a kangaroo, commencing :
“ Kangaroo ! Kangaroo !
Spirit of Australia ! ”
“He makes ‘Australia’ rhyme with
1 failure,’ ” says Lang ; “ shrewdly consider-
ing the kangaroo a failure on the part of
Australian Nature in her awkward attempts
to make a proper quadruped for that country.
His collection of pieces was altogether the
wrctchedest doggerel I have ever seen.”
And Lang should have been a judge of
doggerel, too ; for he himself published later
a most cacophonous collection of rhyming
rubbish. It is strange to find an associate of
Lamb and Coleridge on the Bench at
Botany Bay in those days—snatching a
moment, as it were, from his sentences of
hanging and the lash to pen little verses re-
specting the silent tomb, or tlxe kangaroo ;
and inditing dreamy elegies on the death of
cockchafers while his fellow-creatures writhed
under the lash or dangled from the gallows
to which he had sentenced them. It was
only natural that so cultivated a spirit
should seek such congenial literary society
as Botany Bay afforded. We have seen
how. some, of the officers had a pretty
wit, and a deft hand at turning verses
—chiefly relating to executions and other
light subjects of the vers de societe of those
days. Among them Judge Field found
kindred spirits, so that he yearned no more
for De Quincey and Coleridge, and the
gentle Elia was almost forgotten,
* * #
So that when the Emancipist question
again came up, the new judge fell an easy
victim to the wiles of the literary circle into
which he had fallen. The rum-pur-
veyors probably affected to admire his
verses. Ex-convict Eagar again comes
to the front, this time to press a case
against a M?. Prosper de Mestre. This
was an Ann cican merchant settled in Sydney,
whose imports of tea from China interfered
with Eagar’s business. Finding the law-
courts closedagainsthini, this latter individual
had entered on a mercantile career. He
brought an action to recover damages from
De Mestre for the penalties he had incurred
as a foreigner, under an old, English Act,
for trading in the King’s colonies. But
De Mestre knew the official feeling of the
settlement. He moved for the official
record of the plaintiff’s conviction as his
reply to the charge laid against him. He
was successful. For Judge Field, emerging
from his commune with the Muses, quashed
the proceedings. This action on the part of
the judge had only one meaning. It meant
that no Emancipist could bring an action-at-
law, under any circumstances whatever,
without running the risk of having justice
denied him on the ground that he had been
once convicted of felony, and thus deprived
for ever of all rights and privileges as a
citizen. This was exactly the point the
Pure Merinos were labouring to establish.
• * •
The delight on the part of the Pure Merinos
was only equalled by the dismay among the
Emancipists. They saw themselves again
placed at the mercy of their enemies, and all
Macquarie’s efforts seemed vain. An agi-
tation was set on foot amongst them, and on
January 23, 1821, a public meeting of Eman-
cipists was held in Sydney to protest against
the decision. It was decided to send a dele-
gation of two of their number home on a
mission to the British authorities, to put the
Emancipists’ case before them. Strange to
say, it was from this first public meeting of
ex-convicts, nearly 70 years ago, that our
present free institutions and Responsible
Government arose. Stranger still, it is to
ex-convict Eagar, the emancipist attorney,
that Australia to-day owes-prinmrily the insti-
tutions it possesses. For with him began the
agitation, afterwards taken up by Warded and
Wentworth, which opened with a demand
for a recognition of the civil rights of Eman-
cipists, and only broke off short at the grant-
ing of Responsible
Government in 1850.
Eagar went home as
one of the ex-convict
delegation, and never
returned to the colony
to claim his status.
Macquarie had not.
much to say while this
agitation was going on,
for by this time the
long opposition of the
Pure Merinos was be-
ginning to tell on
himself. It would be
strange if, after unin-
termittent attacks, ex-
tending over twelve
years, with opposition
in the colony and slan-
ders at home, no re-
sults were to be pro-
duced. Macquarie was
called on to explain the
charges made against
him why he built
hospitals and churches,
laid good roads, and
softened the lot of
suffering eouv i c t
wretches. This fine old
soldier made a splendid
reply. He described
the state of the colony
when he came : there
were not 12,000 peo-
ple, or 8000 acres under
crops; the port dues
were under £BOOO.
Against this he de-
scribed the colony as it
was : nearly 40,000 people, 33,000 acres
under tillage, and port dues of £30,000 per
annum. The monuments of his excellent rule
were broadcast throughout the land. The con-
vict population had been relieved. But ‘ 1 even
my work of charity,” said Macquarie, re-
ferring to the charges of his enemies, “in
endeavouring to restore emancipated and re-
formed convicts to a level with their fellow-
subjects—a work which, considered either
from a religious or a political point of view,
I shall ever value as the most meritorious
part of my administration —has not escaped
their animadversion. ” But the slanders of
his enemies carried weight. Sir Thomas
Brisbane came in December, 1821, and
Macquarie went home with the benedictions
of the poorer classes in his ears to die three
years later —another victim to the powerful
remnant of the “ Rum-selling Corps.”
* * *
At this part of our story the name of Dr.
Lang suggests itself. This fine old Scotch
parson came to the colony just two years after
Macquarie left, while his brother arrived in
the year of that event. From the moment
he felt the ground under his feet, the voice
of the Doctor was heard in the land, and he
fought gallantly and with all the vim of his
combative nature whenever his sympathies
were aroused. The son of an Ayrshire
peasant, he had strong prejudices and equally
strong sympathies ; but, so far as he knew,
and according to his lights, he did good work
in his day. The honest old Doctor’s heart
was in the right place, and he sounded the
first note of Australian national aspiration :
quite a number of Australian patriots have
been Scotchmen. When he was beaten or
temporarily silenced by official influence he
thumped the “drum ecclesiastic” against
his foes ; and when he drove a hole in the
drum, as he sometimes did, the good man
had a little trumpet of his own which he
knew how to sound upon occasion.
• • *
Our special concern with Dr. Lang just
here is in his capacity as an alleged historian.
He wrote a book which he imaginatively
enough called a “ History of Hew South
Wales,” but which is nothing more or less
than a very readable autobiography. As a
history it is misleading, chiefly because the
indisputable faith of the Doctor lends it an
appearance of trustworthiness which does
not altogether belong to it. Those who
read between the lines will see that this
fighting Scotch parson wrote his book with a
purpose. But that purpose was not simply
the preparation of a history of the colony.
It was rather to confound the writer’s op-
ponents and, as he would say himself, to
make his enemies his footstool.
* • *
Quite an awful command of Scriptural
commination had the excellent old Doctor,
and its choicest flowers were always at the
service of his foes. He seemed to have
searched the Scriptures with a view to pre-
paring damnatory thunderbolts therefrom ;
and it must be said in all soberness that Iris
multitudinous references to Holy Writ are
exasperating in the extreme to the reader.
Valuable information about the capacity of the
pool of Hebron and other particulars of the k ind
are offered as appendices to this history of
New South Wales, and interesting personal
details about his relatives and their affairs
relieve the monotony of the work. But in
its philosophical scope Lang’s history is very
wide of the mark indeed.
* * •
“A new and a great nation, Which is
destined to extend the illustrious name, the
noble language, the equitable laws, and the
Protestant religion of Britain over the
Southern hemisphere,” was Dr. Lang’s ideal
of the Australian national future. It was
not a very broad or a very high one, But it
was all that could be expected by the most
Judge Barron Field published a volume of verses which he called
“Botany Bay Flowers.”
advanced at the time. Free and indepen-
dent Australia, he said, ‘ ‘ would be valuable
to Great Britain as a mart for her commerce, a
field for the growth of raw produce for, her
manufactures, and an eligible outlet for her
redundant population of all classes ; ” and
on the same page his prejudice and training
so far get the better of him that he bursts
forth into declamation to the effect that “it
was not to be supposed that zealous Protes-
tants of any communion could stand tamely
by ” and see Irish immigration to Australia !
With a view to counterbalance it, he went
home repeatedly and drafted out Scotchmen ;
and from this began those interminable race-
feuds and miserable class differences on
which scalawag politicians trade to-day.
Nothing has done so much to retard
the progress of the Australian people
as these acclimatised racial hatreds and
sectarian squabbles. And yet Dr. Lang
boasts that he was the first to decide an
election—at Port Phillip—by exciting the
Scotch colony he planted there against the
rest of the community.
* * •
In the struggle between the Emancipists
and the Pure Merinos, too, Lang sided
against the former. His relatives had re -
ceived grants of land and assigned convict
servants. The Doctor’s sympathies were,
thrown in, therefore, with the propertied
classes. But he was too honest to shut h’s
eyes altogether to their real characters. S>
that, though his book is disfigured by rankly
prejudiced attacks against Macquarie and
others who strove to ameliorate the convicts'
lot, and give them a chance to reform, it yet
throws a certain amount of light on the pro-
ceedings of the propertied class, as the Pure
Merinos began to call themselves, and «.;i
many of their devious methods and tortuous
ways.
Had Lang been a man of less prejudice
and—let it be said with all respect for bis
honesty—with less bigotry, it is hard to judge
how far his national aspirations and liberal
sympathies would have carried him. As it
was, he opposed Wentworth and Warded in
the early part of their career, and threw
away a great deal of his influence on petty
personal disputes and miserable sectarian
squabbles that were utterly unworthy of him,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Half-a-million Short.
About the surest thing on earth is the Taurus’
deficit. Year after year the great Hi-Ham pro-
duces a gigantic shortage in the national ac-
counts, and year after year he rises to point out
that his shortage is the act of God, and is brought
about by the malevolent tactics of the Opposition,
and that there isn’t any shortage after all but a
large surplus, and that anyone who says the
finances of New South Wales are not all they
ought to be is a liar and a poodle-hearted creature
with tarantula whiskers. With tremendous force
of language he calls upon the Assembly to keep
its “ hi ”on its father and the old man will pull
it through, yet when Parkes is ignominiously
thrust out of office, at the end of his term it is in-
variably found that he has bungled New South
Wales into abject insolvency, and left nothing to
show for his vast expenditure except a few exe-
crable works of art purchased on behalf of the
nation from some more or less obscure individual
who has charged Parkes’ bleeding country 15
times their actual value. But when a natich
with a short memory has had time to for-
get his ruinous imbecility he invariably
stumps the country for the purpose of expound-
ing the financial reforms which he proposes to in-
troduce When he returns to power, and with
paralysing gall he calls his shortage a surplus and
curses his successors for dissipating a vast atnotmt
which never had any existence. In 1878 Palskes
came into office and inherited a sum of £2,500,000
left in the Treasury by his predecessors, and in
two years this great treasure was scattered to the
four winds ? and a deficit of noble proportions was
erected in its stead. In the first seven months of
this period the expenditure kept ahead of the
revenue to the extent of £1,880,000, a result com-
pared'with which the scarcity of the Bibbs’ regime
was as a drop in the ocean ; and the only differ-
ence between the Parkes of that day and the Hi-
Ham of the present era is that his finance has
grown more demoniac and his statistics more hr/
reliable than they ever were before. Fifteen
months have now passed since Parkes caine into
office to extinguish Bibbs’ shortage and Bibbs'
shortage still remains and is periodically hauled
out for public inspection by Parkes himself
as a proof of the Valuelessness of bis own
“promises to pay.” The boasted surplus of
£9OO,OOOin last year’s accounts mysteriously de-
veloped into the same old deficit which lias fol-
lowed Parkes all through life, and the expendi-
ture for 1888 is going on gaily at the rate of
£9,500,000 for the year, with the Wonted £1500,000
of Supplementary Estimates, unforeseen expendi-
ture, Bead-House costs, and other items of outlay
looming in the distance to be added to this total';
while the revenue is crawling on slowly and pain-
fully at the rate of £7,210,000 per annum. Even
if Parkes, for the first time in his political exist-
ence, should succeed in dispensing altogetht r with
Supplementary Estimates, he has still in vieW ah
act of national insolvency to the extent bf ovtlr
£2,250,000 as the result of a single year’s opera-
tions, and should the usual difficulty about “un-
foreseen expenditure ” crop up, the result will be
that all alleged statesman who has never been able
to keep his own accounts square, and who is now too
old and too infatuated to learn how to
take care of the accounts of others, will
present bis admirers with a deficiency of nearly
£.1,000,009 at the close of 1888. Evidently even
bir Henry Jiimself knows that lie is running the
last Government which he ever will run in Aus-
tralia, and he has resolved upon perpetrating a
vast and remembersome financial “ bust ” to keep
his memory green in the land. Judging from
present signs, too, his object will be accomplished
in every sense. Even the E. News now describes
him with lofty scorn as a “ political Mephis-
TOph ei.es,” and though in the temporary absence,
we presume, of the sane member of the B.T, staff,
someone was permitted to write a congratulatory
leader in that paper about the “gratifying evi-
dence of the present improved position,” it is diffi-
cult for a single Weak-kneed johrhal Vo get lip
much enthusiasm about a Government which has
gone half-a-millioh to the bad in the short space of
three ffiohths. Moreover, even the B.T. didn’t
mealy it, aild Vvheh the other man returns to his
post it will take it all back and curse Parkes
With every anathema in its vocabulary.
The tod of Marriage and the tod of kings.
Within the last few days the cable has gradually
evinced more interest in things matrimonial than
m things medical. The electric wire has neglected
the Emperor of Germany’s throat to send mes-
sages about his daughter’s betrothal and to
chronicle the news that if it ever takes place
Bismarck will resign his post as Chancellor of the
Empire. Bismarck is keenly alive to the fact
that one Imperial marriage has taken place which
has brought forth nought but weakness, and he
is determined to do all in his power to prevent
the German reigning house from ever doing the
like again. The latest development of Batten-
bergian impudence forcibly reminds lih that there
is one marriage law for the people and one for
royalty, and as marriage is a divine institution and
royalty is another, the special deity of each cannot
be on speaking terms with the other. Marriage, it ie
claimed, is above mere human law. What God
has joined let no man put asunder. Royalty, too.
is of specially divine origin. The King is God's
Mcegerent on earth. On no other ground can
royalty excuse its existence. People often have
their belief shaken by the recital of the recorded
acts of the God of Abraham. They ask how can
Providence be all good and all merciful, yet do
things essentially cruel and merciless. This need
not worry them. The deity is above His own law
and His representative on earth, the King, is also
above it. How otherwise could a liolv and
ciivinel} -ordained sacrament like that of marriage
lie so readily set aside when it interferes with the
passions of a royal lecher ? In connection with the
recently projected marriage of Queen Victoria’s
latest German poodle, it is well known that Mr
Alexander of Battenberu has already a “ left-
handed wife and several “ left-handed ” children.
He is himself the offspring of a morganatic mar-
riage, and writes Prince before his name as a
prefix of a purely “courteous” character. His
title lasts just as long as the bystander chooses to
call him your highness.” But Mr. Alexander
of Battenbf.ro says that he is not illegitimate.
He does not consider a morganatic marriage as
less sacred than any other marriage. Ergo , if 'he
married the Emperor of Germany’s daughter he
( being the husband of a morganatically-married wife)
would be a bigamist. That is his choice : bigamist
or bastard! The Queen of England not many
years ago seemed quite prepared to plunge her
country in war and wash the face of Europe with
blood for the sake of this penniless and illegitimate
adventurer, and now this same moral Christian


Queen, this Defender of the Faith and fierce
guardian of the proprieties— vide the Valentine
Baker incident patronises a man who is
either a bastard or an adulterer, and en-
deavours to trade him off in the matrimonial
market on to a good and staunch family.
Perhaps she considers it a good move to
put the Hohenzollerns in the same boat that she
herself occupies. She has a Batten berg for a
son-in-law, and she, perhaps, desires to give her
own son-in-law a Battenberg for a son-in-law. It
is the fashion to pretend to be horrified about
Charles the Second’s numerous friends, the
mothers of their graces of St. Albans, Cleve-
land, and Richmond. Bali! Call them mor-
ganatic wives, and looked at from the Royal
Guelphic standpoint of the present day the thing
is excusable enough, nay meritorious. If George
111. really married Hannah Lightfoot, who, it
is claimed, had issue, then the legitimacy of the
Duke of Kent, the Queen’s father, and all his royal
brothers is a very moot point. All the males of
the family are fond of little amusements for which
their subjects would be punished by transporta-
tion. They are nearly all of them bigamists.
George IV. had a left-handed wife in Mrs. Fitz-
herbert, whom he brutally used; William IV.
was legally married to Mrs. Jordan, and
by her had ten daughters, when he made
Adelaide his Queen ; the King of Hanover,
the fourth of George’s funny batch of sons, was
a very queer fish, indeed; and the Queen’s
cousin, the Duke of Cambridge, is the father of
an illegitimate family. Of the Queen’s own sons-
in-law, few of them would be received in the
same relation in any respectable Australian
family. Beatrice’s husband is a stupid lout
with a bar-sinister, an empty pocket, weak eyes,
and a fierce moustache ; Prince Christian is a
bigamist—-if you apply the meaning of British
law to Prince Christian as you would to Tom
Jones— he has nine children by his morganatic
wife ; the name of Prince Louis of Hesse is
coupled with that of dozens of women, and parti-
cularly with Mrs. Kalomine or something. The
Queen’s daughter, the Princess Louise, has really
contracted a morganatic marriage with the Mar-
quis of Lorne, because the latter is not of the
blood-royal, and if the marriages of male regalities
with female commoners do not count, the law
must apply also to the female regalities in their
unions with male commoners. But what a filthy,
disgusting chapter the whole “morganatic ” system
makes ! And these are the highly moral people
who have the cast-iron assurance to interfere “ in
the interests of morality ” in the marriage and
divorce laws of Australia! Possibly on the ground
that they are bound by no law themselves they are
enabled to take an impartial view of the situation.
The Benevolence of Freetrade.
It is a usual gibe on the part of Freetraders that
Protection gains its ascendancy with the masses
by a pretended interest in the welfare of the
workman. A Sydney daily now comes forward
to invite the sneer to the Freetrade cause. It in-
sists upon the cheerful benevolence of the tariff
duties, and dilates on the fathomless philanthropy
of a system of taxation for revenue purposes only.
Under the heading “ ‘Protecting’ Labour,” it
begins by burning a devotional candle at the altar
of Free Competition, in these words :
“ The steady adherence of the great mass of the work-
ing classes in New- South Wales to the cause of enlightened
Government is a proof that many of them have carefully
studied the claims of the so-called policy of Protection to
he considered the guardian of working-class interests.”
Of course, this is an indirect way of saying that
the great mass of the working classes in New
South Wales have carefully studied the claims of
the so-called policy of Freetrade to be considered
the guardian of working-class interests, and they
have arrived at the conclusion that the Gospel
according to Cobden is a Brobdingnagian bene-
factor to the human race in general, and to New'
South Wales in particular. Further on in the
same article our contemporary observes :
“Protection is demanded in the name of Labour, but
when it is obtained, Capital kicks Labour from pillar to
post.”
Does Capital not kick Labour from pillar to post
under any and every_ fiscal regime ? Is it not the
characteristic of Capital and not the characteristic
of either a Freetrade or a Protectionist regime
to kick Labour under any and every fiscal
system from pillar to post ? Henry George, in
his book on Freetrade and Protection, admits that
the strong point about Protection is its humanity,
and the weak point about Freetrade is its in-
humanity. Freetrade is the callous indifference
of the individual Capitalist applied to a nation .
Buy in the cheapest market, is the motto alike of
Capitalist and Community. One buys the cheap
labour that produces the cheap goods ; the other
buys, with as much apathetic gratulation on a bar-
gain, the cheap goods produced by the cheap
labour. Freetrade is the blind grinding of Nature.
Man claims to rise into a higher sphere of morals.
He pretends that man’s humanity to man lifts
the life-battle into a nobler arena where the con-
ditions of stern warfare are softened by a hundred
sentiments of human fellowship, pity, magnani-
mity and what not. Freetrade, the international
expression of the brutal doctrine of Mature, of
Free Competition, comes into play, and in its
harsh application of the Manchester brawl of
soft-goods' morality, annihilates the slow
erection of centuries of intellectual achieve-
ment. And now in the eleventh hour the
daily press comes airily forward to convince
humanity that the friend of the masses is the
doctrine of Freetrade—the grinding soul-slavery
of Free Competition.
Australian Natives’ Association.
Dear Bulletin,—l see you are keeping the
natives up to the mark. The real reason of the
indefiniteness, such as there was, is that Mr. Purves
is in the stage of conversion from local to national
Australianism and to Radical ideas. A good
many of the local branches cling to the conven-
tionality of mock-loyalty simply for want of
waking up, and in that respect your Foreign-trade
colony has the advantage of being brought more
face to face with the facts than are the Vic-
torians who have grown up under Protection.
But even here they have such episodes as the
Pathan shipment of informers, and so forth, which
they are too apt to forget, particularly as there is
no Victorian Radical paper truly so-called. -
Yours, An Australian. Dunolly, Vic.
The Letters of Sappho
Smith.
The Bulletin’ has at last discovered a lusus
natures —a woman who can write, and whose
society comments are interesting alike to men and
women, and in the next issue will appear the first of
a series of letters from her pen. She is a lady
well known in the highest Sydney and Melbourne
society, and throws off jibey satire over the nom
dc Plume of Sappho Smith.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
!tre RoyaTj.— “Pinafore” p. 15.
Majesty’s Theatre.— “ Faust ” ~
srion Theatre. — “Sophia”
L Standard Theatre.— Burlesque Company... „
IMSRA Music Hadd.— Minstrelsy ~
sadness like that of a wet. hen on Sun-
is coming over the patrons of Sydney Gaiety,
pite of great efforts to disguise his intentions
is leaked out by advertisement that Dampier
xmt to fold himself nj> and silently steal away
lelbourne, and the admirers who have visited
show every night for the past three years are
nsolable. It is estimated that ten men will
jably be killed in the crush on the last nights
he season. In some quarters fears are even
srtained that the stage may be rushed by an
ted crowd with hoes all anxious to get a frag-
it of Dampier to preserve as an heirloom, and
5 calculated in several well-informed circles
; the company had better leave on foot and
;uised as Chinamen with a basket of vegetables
see, if they wish to avert pursuit and
tpture. During his lengthy stay Mr.
npier has stirred up the victuals of human
ipatliy on the sea of public emotion to
i an extent that we decline to be answerable
the consequences, and when he wraps up his
•Idly possessions in a newspaper and gallops
another sphere, he will be followed by a brass
d and the tears of an intelligent community,
anwhile the company, with remarkable pre-
ce of mind, continue to play “The Woman of
People ” in order to divert public attention
ile Mr. Dampier is getting his other shirt and
collar together, and on Friday they propose
;over up their fell purpose by presenting “The
ly of Lyons. ”
-X-
‘ Pinafore,” at Sydney Royal, dies an un-
,ural death on Friday, and, as we sit lost in
.ught upon our throne, we learn that “Princess
i, ’’is to be produced on the succeeding night,
en Alice Barnett, whose stupendous size in
cks makes her the terror of dressmakers, will
ppear. “Faust,” which is more by Goethe
i less by Gilbert Parker than it was last week,
[1 lives amid a wilderness of gorgeous scenery
Her Majesty’s. Man, who is but a nuisance
•e below, and the female of his race have both
in fascinated by this brilliant combination of
itry, upholstery, dramatic art, and gas, and
iy pound on the floor with their high-priced
ots right through the piece, On Thursday
pril 12) the elevated Baron Carington is to
tronise “ Sophia” at the Criterion, always pro-
led he is not struck by lightning in the interval,
d, as we have never yet heard of a Baron being
■uck by lightning, this danger is hardly worth
usidering. The electric fluid always hesitates
out smashing theupper classes. Also we note that
e events which nearly led to our being found dead
tside the Royal Standard, have, so far, been
ccessfully withstood by the public, and “ Don
lan, Junior,” continues to exercise a baleful Li-
enee over a considerable number of citizens,
lis alleged burlesque stands upon the stage as a
I'lancholy proof of what may happen to an
thor when a young local bard starts to edit his
irk in his absence, and he fails to get there in
ne to discourage his enemy with a tree. If
;'ron had arrived in time but why pursue
is subject further! It is only one more instance
the providential circumstances whicli aren’t
ere.
•y, AL- AL
w w 'iv w
Sydney Opera House is held by the Fisk
ibilee Singers, and these dark children of song
e doing a profitable business. Pathetic melodies,
ch as “ Walk into Jerusalem just like John,
ways fetch an Australian audience, and the lis-
ners never worry about details. Many of them
'obably draw a vague picture of John, when his
irse had given out, tramping wearily through
te back-blocks of Judea until he got to Jerusa-
m, where he could knock down his cheque, for
le Australian is a painfully materialistic indi-
dual, and the heavenly application of the old
3gro melodies is a good deal lost on him.
Away over Jordan ” is another song which
ways seems to pass muster successfully, and
asides a negro hymn without the Jordan in it
ould be as hollow as a pawnbroker’s repentance,
id the audience have to put up with that eter-
ally-recurring river whether they will or not.
he Fisk Singers are as melodious as of yore, and
their songs are not altogether new, they pro-
ii.se to hold out for a good many years ahead,
.nd anyhow they come as a pleasant change to a
ation which is blase with too much “ ri-tooral,
nd which wants to commune with nature without
etting too far away from a public-house.
# # # #
At Adelaide Royal, “Dorothy” has af-
irded many matrons an opportunity of appearing
i their low-bodied raiment. Nellie Stewart and
i'anny Liddiard are the principal attractions, and
da Osborne, Knight Aston, and Leumane coine
i for a share of public attention. Also W . Elton
ets knocked about considerably, but keeps the
un going all the same. Maccabe is doing good
msiness at the Albert Hall in the same old
ntertainment. Madame Schiller s concerts have
ieen fairly successful, but Armes Beaumont has
*een unable to appear owing to an affection of the
hroat.
* * * *
Annie Mayor, at latest dates, was appear-
ng in San Francisco as the heroine of a brand-
lew drama. In the fourth act a villain hurls
gentle Annie into real water, and she sinks twice
lefore another fellow rows on in a wherry, and
swims to the rescue. This is a vast improvement
>n the usual stage drowning, when the virtuous
maiden is pulled out of the water in a dry and
lusty state. Nevertheless,. Miss Mayor will soon
get a cold on her pretty little lungs if she isn’t
careful, and the other fellow has got lumbago
already, probably. This real water business is not
such a startling novelty as the San I rancisco
people imagine. At the London Standard they
have a gigantic tank fixed beneath the stage, and
the dramas generally work in a realistic boat-race
or a bona-fide picnic up the river. They say that
Douglas, the manager, intends to stock his tank
with tame tittlebats, so that the low comedian can
go fishing and get real “bites” in sight of the
audience.
-fe # #
The Melbourne Juvenile Exhibition —
where the products of infant industry are mixed
up with ballad concerts, electric fountains, ana a
Punch and Judy drama-—has made a healthy
start and will improve as it goes along. I rom
2 to 5 p.m. the infants and their pretty aunts
frisk among the exhibits until a spirit of emulation
has been duly promoted, after which they devour
light refreshments and draw a useful moral from
the story of Punch, whose long career of crime is
terminated by a goblin pulling him down into the
pit of Tophet. But from 7 till 10.30 more mature
children roll up and linger by the fountains just
to hear the maidens sing. The show will also be
assisted by juvenile competitions in every branch
of art except boxing, the boss infants taking
cash prizes that will keep them in hardbake for
the remainder of their natural lives. There is
some talk of introducing the totalisator into these
competitions, so that fond parents can plank the
stable money on their respective fancies, but this
might lead to “nobbling” and rows among the
mammas. If the committee are wise they will
draw the line at sweepstakes, We musn’t con-
clude this exhaustive notice without mentioning a
most improving exhibit displayed near the
Flinders-street entrance. I t is a memorial tablet
wrought by the fair young hand of an undertaker s
apprentice. Thereby are thoughtless little ones
reminded that the worm dieth, and that all flesh is
grass.
* * * #
' “ London Assurance,” the comedy said to
have been written by Dion Boucicault and another,
is filling the bill at Melbourne for six nights only.
In the course of its 40 years’ experience “ London
Assurance ” has been played with either Dazzle
or Fir Harcourt Courtly as the centre of attrac-
tion. Occasionally it pops up for the sole pur-
pose of displaying a very fine woman m the
part of Lady Gay Spanker. The present revival
is in the interests of Mr. Warner, and Ins Charles
Courtly is the bright particular star of the even-
ing. No opposition glitter worth mentioning
diverts attention from Mr. Warner’s performance,
which is happy, light and dashing' throughout.
Mr. Vincent’s style is unsuited to the senile pomp
and vanity of Sir Harcourt, and there is little
enough Dazzle about Mr. Herbert Flemming,
a capable, pleasant-faced actor, who, somehow,
fails to spread his stage presence beyond the space
filled by his figure. Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner
makes a moderate success of Lady Gay, and Miss
Alice Deorwyn gives Grace Harkaway some of
the divine attributes of Nellie Stewart. Minor
characters are represented. on a sliding scale of
feebleness, but the scenery is solid and beautiful.
On Saturday the “Fool’s Revenge,” with Mr.
Warner as the hunchback joker.
* # * #
A generous and enlightened public is
doing about as little as it can for the Alexandra,
where the new management sits in patient con-
templation of a bleak array of bare benches. The
opening drama, which withered like a flower
for one weary week, was replaced by
“Across the Continent” on Saturday night.
After the first five minutes of this play a blank
sense of misery settled upon the audience, only
to be relieved by bursts of ghastly hilarity when
the villain went on the war-path with a tribe of
caricature Indians and made a bogus _ attempt to
secure the scalps of the palefaces with a blunt
meat-axe, and carry off the gyurls to his lonely
wigwam. The trike \va.s a shocking bad band at
a war-whoop, and perished miserably without
getting one scalp. Respectable scenery and acting
is frittered away on this show, but a. well-tried
play is promised, and may catch on if lavishly
advertised.
# # # #
Grattan Riggs is putting in his last week at
Melb. Opera House with “ Shin Fane,” which is in
large demand, considering the depressed state of the
market for Irish goods. Mr. Riggs plays his four
characters with all the old effect, others being
honestly treated by cheery Miss It mm a Chambers
and a hardworking company. “ Twelfth Night,
as predicted by The Bulletin, has proved the
most popular comedy that Shakespeare ever wrote
for Essie Jenyns ; but the Bijou season draweth
to a close, and Melbourne is yearning to hear
Essie discuss the quality of mercy m the garb
of a sweet girl graduate. Therefore “ Merchant
of Venice” on the 14th. Bland Holt’s “New
Babylon ” is right in the thick of it
at the Royal, and this overpowering spectacle
looks good for another month, anyhow. r l he two
halls feel uncomfortably full after dinner, and
there .is a sound of sedate revelry by night even
at the Waxworks.
* # # #
There is reason to believe that the long-
suffering public has “tumbled to the tricks and
devices of bicycle races. The Melbourne B.C.
Autumn meeting, with splendid weather m its
favour, was attended by a few thousands less than
rolled up last year. The money for stiff uns
wanted a lot of finding.
*= * # *
Mr. Knight Aston writes to the South
Australian Advertiser to explain that he is not
at present in a married condition with Mrs.
Gordon-Baillie. He did at one time occupy the
matrimonial estate in company with that lady,
but he afterwards bounced her out of the holy
sacrament of marriage-—in other words, he was
legally put asunder by the Divorce Court, owing
to the carryings-on of the lady in the sacrament
above referred to. She afterwards entered mto the
same blessed state with Mr. Percy Bromby Frost,
and, so far as is known, Bromby is still m
a connubial condition. Mrs. Gordon-Baillie
started life as Miss Mary Ann Bruce Sutherland,
the daughter of a Dundee washerwoman, but she
signed herself “ Annie Ogilvie Bruce when she
became one flesh with a liar it one gentleman
named Thomas White, at Marylebone, m Novem-
ber 187(1. Thomas is Mr. Knight Aston s name
when he takes his attractive vocal organ into
private life, a circumstance which came to light
when the versatile lady of his affections got mto
trouble over a certain transaction m which a
baby-linen dealer was badly left.
% # # #
When the Lynch Bellringers were per-
forming at Auckland (N.Z.) Opera House they
were just in time to Stop the doorkeeper from
heaving out an earl. The Thane of Aberdeen
had travelled with the company by theWairarapa
from Sydney, and having struck up an acquaint-
ance with them he wandered in behind the scenes
to view the inner aspects of the show. Then a
mean ignoble doorkeeper fell upon him as a dead-
head, and a peer would have been rushed into the
street had not Mr. Lynch arrived in time to save
him from the fangs of the destroyer.
# * * *
Quotation from Heine: “ Nature, wanting
to know how she looked, created Goethe’- we
mean Gilbert Parker. Sarah Bernhardt has got
in debt to the extent of 100,000 dollars in six .
months. Ellen Terry is aged 40. It is generally
regarded as mean to give away a lady s age, but
this information is afforded to supply a long-felt
public want. Henry Irving is very sick. His
nervous system is broken up, and o\vmg to
a multitude of small ailments he has to
avoid festivities, dinners, suppers, lunches,
funerals, and the like. W. W. Lynch, of the
famous Bellringers, is suffering from rheumatics
caused by damp sheets, and is laid up in V ictoria
“His Natural Life, written by Inigo Tyrell and
Marcus Clarke,” is the announcement on the bill
at the Alcazar Theatre, ’Frisco. Now that
Clarke is dead all sorts of fellows put their names
lin front of his. “ Hamlet, by Joseph Jones
and W. Shakespeare,” is only a question
of time. American critics have sat so
heavily upon the undressing scene in Marguerite s
chamber in “Faust” that Ellen Terry cut that
attractive episode out. And yet there wasn t so
very much undressing in it after all. Ellen s
English audiences now demand that the scene
shall be restored. Honi soit —you know the
rest. Buffalo Bill says air is so scarce in England,
that “ the biggest county wants . ventilation.
Selina Dolaro says that Mrs. Langtry s stays
are miracles of stiffness,, and are laced
tight to ward off embonpoint. t From which
it would seem that the divine Lily was
stuffing the reporter to whom she afforded so
much valuable information about her undercloth-
ing. Emma Abbott is reported to be. worth
£60,000, all made in 10 years out of her voice and
her paroxysmal stage-kiss. “The Mystery of a
Hansom Cab ” is doing good business at London
Princess’s. C. H. Taylor’s company is at Broken
Hill, and “ Called Back,” “Ould Ireland,” the
“ Shaughraun,” and “ East Lynne ’ with most of
the tears struck out, have struck the silver inter
lect heavily. The leper has even invaded the
theatre ; there were four swell Chows in the dress
circle at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) the other night,
Amy Sherwin was presented with sundry ad-
dresses at Auckland (N.Z.), and the local Press,
in a burst of boundless originality, said she ac-
knowledged them in “ a few appropriate words.
Mrs. Langtry has declined a Philadelphian en-
gagement on account of the death of her
father, Dean Le Breton, who departed
this life in Jersey, on 28th February.
Edmund Yates asks in the Atlas : “ Why should
not young ladies in search of a profession take to
the ballet and the orchestra as kindly as they
have taken to the post-office and the type-writer '!
Want of proper legs, perhaps. It is reported that
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, in the depths of her abound
ing cheek, engaged George Rignold at £5O a week
to lead in a visionary theatrical company. A
lady who would soar to that would offer an em-
peror a job.
IT he San Francisco News Letter writes in bitter-
n ?ss of spirit about the old cry, “ The Chinese must
go,” and aliout the way they don't go all the
same:—
It seems like meeting an old friend to again read about
the Chinese curse in the dailies. Many a man got his first
start in political life in this city by the aid of that good
old curse. It has been a kind friend to the editor, and
without it not a few of our orators would have gone down
to the silent grave leaving the world all unconscious of
their eloquence. The parson is also under deep obliga-
tions to the Chinese curse. When lie failed to derive the
customary inspiration from the Book, the staunch old
Chinese curse was ever at his side to suggest a text. If
has been somewhat neglected of late years, but it is cheer-
ing to see it boh up again with a fresh coat of paint and
all the worn out patches as good as new.
That is just where the trouble arises in Aus-
tralia. “The Chinese must go,” hut they keep on
coming instead, and even the'dead Chinese come
hack and show their papers at the Custom House,
and land with a cheerful “ Hi-yah,” and go .ahead
the same way as they did when they were alive.
The P. & 0. Co.’s R.M.S. “Oceana" will leave
Sydney on Saturday, the 28th April, instead of
Monday, the 30th, as intimated on the front page
of to-day’s issue of The Bci.i.etix.
There are over 150 cases of typhoid fever
at the new township of Broken Hill (N.S.W. )-
the sheer result of filthy inattention to the very
first principles of sanitary science. One of the
local doctors is down, the hospital is overcrowded,
and, in one instance, four men are lying at death’s
door in a tent scarcely larger than a table-cloth.
Such are some of the scenes in the race for
wealth !
Perhaps N.S.W. members of Parliament
will make it their business to enquire (1) whether
any member of the N.S.W. Ministry ever bought
any statuettes or other statuary intended for
Parkes’ “State House” from, or through, or at
the instigation of Mr. Malcolm, late manager of
the “bank” over which Parkes’ colleague, the
Minister of Mines, helps to preside ; (2) whether
the Minister by whom such statuary was pur-
chased (assuming the purchase to have been really
made) had, at the time, any private financial
transactions with the bank then managed by Mr.
Malcolm, and if so, what was the nature of such
transaction ; (3) whether the statuary in question
has since been publicly offered for sale, and
whether there is the slightest earthly probability
of anybody giving for it even a fraction of the
amount paid for it out of the N.S.W. public
Treasury.
“A Voice From The Bush
Dear Bulletin, —It would be pleasant to set at
rest, once and for ever, the authorship of these
lines, so often quoted as Gordon’s and several
other people’s —“A Voice from the, Bush.
Nowhere could this be done than in the
columns of a paper which, from the first, has been
the consistent, yet discriminating, praiser of
Gordon, of Clarke, of every Australian whose
name has risen through the ignorant abuse or im-
pertinence of the rank-and-file of our dailies and
weeklies to its finally established place in the
praise of all. I see a reviewer of yours ascribes
the poem to Mowbray Morris. This reviewer is
so ferociously aboriginal that he speaks of it con
temptuously as hybrid and execrable stuff,
Certes, it is not a gem, and Gordon has written
better, but he has also written worse—much
worse —and the poem has its merits. This is
what I know of its authorship. Some three years
ago I wrote an essay on Gordon’s poetry in the
Melbourne Review (subsequently incorporated in
my “Australian Essays ”), wherein I notified the
fact that, with the exception of one other poem
the last quoted in the addenda —this was the sole
attempt Gordon made at irregular versification. All
the rest is in regular and rhymed rhythms ; every
line rhyming with another line. This remark of
mine produced a letter from Mr. Sutherland,
then editing the review, the author of our first
text-book of Australian history, and the first
careful investigator of Gordon’s biography (see,
Melbourne Review, October, 1883, No. 32),
He informed roe, if I do not mistake, that be had
actually run the poem to earth in the South
Australian Register, and that it was by a Mr,
Sinnett, at present resident in England, and
who may be the “ author ” who asked Mr. Si.adkn
to withhold his name from the “ anthology. .!
wonder is this Sinnett the theosophist and
“author” of “Karina” and other esoteric Budd-
histical romances? The poem, I say, has its
merits, though it shows an imperfect sense of
the law of irregular versification. -Truly yours,
FRANCIS ADAMS.


MR and MRS. SIN FAT.
By EWARD DYSON.
Mr. Sin Fat arrived in Australia in the
year of grace 1870, a poor and friendless man.
He entered the great city of Melbourne, a stranger
in a strange country, possessed only of a blue
dungaree suit that had served him long and
patiently in his distant home, ninepence in cop-
pei and as much of his fatherland spread over
his surface, and drifted into the cracks and cran-
nies of his gaunt person as he could conveniently
carry, and yet avoid being mistaken for a heap of
guano, and seized upon as dutiable goods. Sin
Eat was not tall and ath-
letic nor fair to look upon
—in truth, he was stun-
ted, and as plain of face
as the pottery gods that
he had learned to revere
at his good mother’s knee*
His complexion was so
distraught by an uncon-
genial climate that it
possessed less bloom and
beauty than the inside of
a sundried lambskin ; his
features were turned and
twisted and pulled awry
till they resembled excres-
cences and indentations
on a palsied and worm-
eaten pie-melon, and his
lank, lean limbs were
mute evidence of a life of
privation and toil. In
point of fact, Sin Fat was
so ungainly and so sparing
of personal attractions at
this period of his exist-
ence that his homely
visage soon became the
theme of popular com-
ment, and 1 ‘ ugly as Sin ”
is an aphorism which
will survive as long as
the English language is
spojeen. The humble emi-
grant paid no poll-tax.;
he was a duly-certifi.ed,
subject of her gracious.
Majesty, Queen, victoria,
towards whose throne and,
pprson, he possessed an,
ardent Freetrade affeq-
tipn, as, he told the
Customs officer, in muti-
lated English and accents
tremplous and low. For
Sin was of a retiring dis .
position; by nature he
was bashful and concilir
atory, his "tones, were
wheedling, and his hum-,
ble carriage excited the
derision of a distempered
and woe-worn dog which
had its habitat amongst
the lumber of the wharf
—a vagrant, craven mon-
grel, that lived in a per-
petual state' of’ cringe,
Vet which assumed
something Af dignity in
the presence of a still
meaner creature, and boldly pursued Sip Fatas,he
ambled away and assailed him in the rearmost parts
of His frame. But the lowly foreigner continued
on hi's road with bent ’ eyes and an expression of
religious meekness, till, as if guided by instinct
or the power of affinity, he slunk into that nesi;.
of pestilence between Little Bourke and Lonsdale
streets, and was lost amongst the hordes which
there do congregate.
* * #
Fifteen years ago the Chinese camp at
Ballarat East was a large and populous suburb.
Thousands of prosperous, but unkempt and
wasted, disciples of Confucius lodged in a nest of
totteriixg, vermin-ravaged, smoke-begrimed hovels,
of which no firmly-constituted, independent hog'
would accept a protracted tenure. From the main
road to back beyond the old Llanberris was almost
covered with the broken-backed tenements of
squalid, immoral heathens, who followed various
light and remunerative callings, peddling tea, gim-
crack fancy-goods and moonstruck fish; fossicking'
on the Yarrawee and Black Hill flats ; or mooning-
round with a pair of debilitated baskets strung on
a stick, collecting rags, bones and bottles, or any
movable items of intrinsic value which could be
reached through a crack in the fence when the
proprietor’s attention was otherwise engaged, and
each and all supplementing their income by deeply-
planned nocturnal raids on distant poultry-farms,
fruit-farms, wood-heaps, or sluice-boxes. A couple ’
of serpentine streets of crazy domiciles inhabited
by grimy pagans still remain, but the majority of
the Chows have migrated to other diggings—some
have returned to the homes of their childhood, and
some have gone to heaven. The staggering shanties
yet standing are a good sample of the sties which
littered the flat in ’73; dec rep id dens reaching
away in all directions for something to lean against;
indented on one side, bulged on the other, com-
piled of logs, stones, palings, flattened tins and 1
battered pans, and roofed with a sugar mat. ' The
common Chinaman glories in these little snuggeries.
When by some chance he becomes possessed of a '
home with a respectable exterior he straightway
hews a hole in the roof, boards up the windows
with gathered planks, and disfigures the front with
scraps of tin and old battens; whether in accor-
dance-with a perverted taste or out of a guileful
desire to mislead the tax-assessor is beyond human
comprehension. 1
* * *
It was evening, after a clay hot enough to
blister the ear of an elephant. Sin Fat’s work
was done, and he jogged homewards along a little -
side street in Ballarat East. He bore the ortho-
dox Chinese baskets, a pair which had evidently
been in active business for some considerable’timfe,
and, judging from the hooked stick in his hand
and the grateful aroma of old bones and scaven-
gering winch clung to him like a brother, Sin was
following the calling of a “Rag John.” S. Eat,
as we now see him with the eye of faith, is phy-
sically much improved since he landed in Aus-
tralia ; he does not appear to have missed meals
so regularly of late, and success as a rag-and-bone
collector, fossicker, snow-dropper, and chicken-
thief has lent him an air of confidence and self-
esteem, though he smiles with his old deference
and still clings with superstitious awe to the dirt
of his fatherland, which has been supplemented by
grit of a colonial origin. Our hero has disposed of
his day’s collection of rags and rottenness gleaned
from the gutters and rubbish-heaps of the city, at
a local marine-store, and he now Idea him to his
hunible home and merited repose. But he is not
lost to a sense of duty, his ever watchful eye is
open to detect an opportunity, however trifling,
of increasing his diurnal income, and when he
espies a goose, obese and matronly, making frantic
endeavours to shove her portly form through a
small aperture in a fowl-house in the back yard of
a private residence, his soul is instantly tired with
a desire to .possess her to call her his own, if
only for a few hours. Sin is a man of action ;
dropping his baskets and casting aside all re-
serve he enters the yard and in a moment
the matronly goose is in his power. Tucking
her under his arm and stifling the noisy
clamours in her head he turns to vacate the
premises ; but, alas for his circumspection,
the door of the residence opens, and a fat woman
with a baby dangling over one arm comes out to
swear at a neighbour’s boy who is throwing stones
MR SIN FAT.
at a dyspeptic,cat on, her roof. She has. not noted,
the predatory’Mongol, bpt “he who, hesita.tes is
lost,” and Sin’s,native wif serves, him, well. Ad-
vancing bpldly to. tnp stout female, smiling ob-
sequiously- the.w.hile, and, covering. the brands and
bipth-marks, of the goose with his jerkin, he
blandly queries :
“ Buy em,gopse, missee ? Welly cheap, welly
fat.”
“ Navy ! ” snaps the woman, eyeing him suspi-
ciously.
“ Mjuphy fine goose, hpap, stout! " persists Sin,
coyly smiling.
“Don’t want it; go away ! ”
“Allli; some odder day, eh?” And Sin re-.
treats, still smiling, apd; bears his victim, to. her
doom; and as bp,trofs.op,his way he congratulates,
himself, babbling alopd in his rapture.
*, *. *.
Sin had; a bjjop, villa, built in his spare,
time from,plans and specifications, of his own de-
signing, and composed of old, palings gleaned
from,neighbouring fences on,moonless nights, and
multitudinous other scraps and patches which
were withip the reach of a, poor Chinee. The
residence was a very comfortable one for summer
wear ; it had,openings to catch the breeze from
every point of the compass, and if the rain came
in at the roof it ran out again at the sides, so that
there was little to complain of. Standing at the
front door, one commanded an excellent view of a
yellovv creek, within the thick mullock in the bed
■of which .dead cats, hens, dogs and other domestic
fauna, handing round a liberal odour of decaying
vegetation '(all flesh is grass) lay stranded, and
lent a. little diversity to the scene. The house
was within (two minutes walk of a fan-tan table
and a Jpss-house; it abutted on to a stagnant
pool, and received the balmy westerly breeze off a
candle-factory. Our hero was content with these
few advantages for the time being, but, by steady
industry and frugality, he hoped one day to boss a
gambling hell of! his own, and move in the best
Celestial, society in imported wooden boots. Sin
was ambitious.
* * *
Sin Fat parted with his feathered prize to
an epicurean fellow-countryman at a high figure
before he reached his humble home. He knew
that,‘had he not done so, Mrs. Sin Fat would have
seized the earliest opportunity of converting the
bird into square gin. Mrs. Fat was possessed of
a deplorable habit of thus transmuting all kinds
■of personal'property into liquor, in consequence of
which it was part of lief husband’s policy to care-
fully place all articles of intrinsic value beyond
her reach, ayowing that her tastes were too luxu-
rious for his‘small means. It wag dark before
Mr. Fat reached''his own ;roof-tree.' He groped,,
his way into thb parlour, whiqh! Aas'also kitchen/ *
bedroom, drawing-room,' and .brft-hdxise, and lit a,
candle (candles were ahothei- of Mrs. Fat’s ex-
travagances). The glare awoke a Woman who was;
sleeping, sprawling amongst a few filthy rags oni
•a low bunk at one end of the hut. She lifted her-
self on her hands, and gazed at the Chinamam
with stupid, drunken eyes. A great shock of un-
kempt black hair fell about her sallow face, which;,
in spite of the ravages of drink, and that faint,,
strange semblance to a Mongolian which,
surely comes to the woman who consorts,
with Chinamen, still possessed something of
beauty. Under more favourable circumstances.;
her eyes had been full, dark, and luminous. Her-
features were well cut, the nose somewhat aquiline,.
the mOuth large and sensrtal. A visage surely,
with the temper of 50 devils —a “ gay ” woman
abandoned to the filth and utter loathsomeness
of a Chinese camp. About 34 yeax-s of age, tall,
l’ound, with the unnatural obesity of a heavy
drinker, intensely hating all about her —aye, and
hating herself worse than all as she wallowed in
the very dregs and slime of the social system
such was Mrs. Sin Fat.
“Horne again, sweetheart!” she muttered,
“ home again to your true-love, my tall, beau-
tiful—Bali, you ugly thief, you ! Get
out or I’ll brain you! you And a list of
profane ejaculations was smothered as she fell
with her face amongst the rags once more, clutch-
ing vacantly for the empty bottle wherewith to
deprive her husband of the contents of his head.
* * *
This was Sin’s only weakness—this she-
fiend from whose bursts of passion he had often to
fly for his life. He had found her one cold
wet night, stretched in the mud at the door of his
hovel, and had taken her in. She was haggard,
ragged, and fearfully enxaciated. The men turned
from her with an oath and a wry expression, and
this seemed her last chance. She and Sin Fat
Were married. She was possessed of one husband
already, a portly Melbourne mechanic, but she
had left him and her child years before- left him
because lie was a “fat old fool,” an opinion based
on the fact that he did not kick her down and
jump on her with his working boots when she
flew into a tantrum. Other men had done this
since, and she respected them. Sin took her in
and married her, fed'her up, dressed her well, and
then she left him; only to return again, lagged
and worn with debauchery, to be dressed and fed,
and to “clear”, once more. She repeated this
several times, and her dutiful lord always received
her with open anus, but at length an idea occurred
to Sin Ire refused to provide fine clothes, and then
she stayed with him, and kept him merry by occa-
sionally cracking r his head with a gin-bottle—an
empty bottle, of course, for she would rather that
her dear lord should escape correction altogether
than waste a nobbier of her favourite nectar. Sin
bore his cross patiently, but it was not affection
entirely which restrained him from dropping some-
thing unhealthy into her gin. I have said that he
was ambitious; he had many plans, and this
woman could dress well and ape the lady. He
foresaw the time when she would be useful to him.
Sin had no intention of remaining a toiler
and moiler all his life. He had done well in the
rag-and-bone business, but it was laborious, and
our hero had gentlemanly instincts—he wanted to
acquire riches and fatty tissue without expending
any more of the sweat of his brow than was abso-
lutely necessary, and he but waited to increase his
available capital before embarking in business.
The fulfilment of his laudable ambition was
brought about earlier than he expected b.y a
dispensation of Providence,
• • *
Midnight, The bright white moon floated
low in the eastern sky, and threw her sheeny
beams like sword-blades through the crazy walls
of Sin. Fat’s home. A tall, willowy cat, with a
swan-like neck and an. attenuated frame bestrode
the ridge-pole, and stood black against the pallid
orb of night, and lifting up, her yoi.ee she cried her
woes to the listening spheres in accents wild and
weird. All else was still and dumb. The camp
lay like a herd of islands in a lake of light. Sin’s
sleep was calm and childlike, and his wife had
ceased to toss and breathe half-uttered, curses, in
his deaf ear. The moon, soared higher and higher,
and the long black shadows slowly folded towards,
their base. Suddenly and _ stealthily the ground
opened like a yawning giant; Sin Fat’s, vijlla
trembled,, tottered, and sank quietly ixyto the black,
abyss, and where the house had, stood was. a deep
dark pit, and a dusty cat with a broken tail, a
bitnged eye and a coat of many colours, tearing
madly across thp battery sands, seemed to bp the
“Buy em,goose, missee? Welly cheap, welly fat.”
only creature, that quite realised the extent of
the catastrophe. The country on which the
Chinese camp at Ballarat is situated is nearly all
“old ground;!’ it has-been,worked, and worked so
thoroughly that thq crust of the earth has.acquired ;
an exceedingly dangerous habit of settling, ab-„
ruptly down into the caverns below, accompanied;
by sundry Mongolian sties, to the exceeding dis-
comfort of the greasy inhabitants.
* • *
At break of day the squalid denizens of
the camp gathered about the chasm at the bottom
•of which lay Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat buried in the
ruins. The Chows appointed a chairman and
discussed the situation with characteristic clamour
.and energetic gesticulation, finally resolving-
by a large majority to call in white men to
undertake the rescue. When there’s work to
be done which entails the probability of a
broken head oi; the unearthing of a corpse,, the-
Heathen Chinee is sure to have a sore hand or an
important engagement at some distance. White
men came, and Mr. and Mrs. Sin Fat were fos-
sicked out from the debris, full of dust, old nails,
and wood splinters, but not much the worse for
their premature interment. Mrs. Fat thanked
her rescuers, as she was hauled up through the
roof of the hut, with a few well-chosen curses,
terminating with a heartfelt wish that they might
be instantly consigned to a region where frost
and snow are unknown, and where no time is
wasted scraping chilblains with a chip. Sin
stood on the brink of the aperture for some time
after the thoughtless herd had dispersed, dole-
fully surveying the fragments of his late home.
His mind was made up at last—he would not
build again, he would go into business.
* *
The year ,187 b a.d. Little Bourke -street,
Melbourne, Sunday morning. On either path
along the narrow thoroughfare groups of sleek*
looking Chinese, arrayed in their best imported
togs, slouched with their hands buried in their
long sleeves, debating politics and theology, or
more likely cavilling at the absurdly low price of
“cabbagee” and “gleenpea,” the conversation
occasionally eliciting a shrewd ejaculation from a
dun-coloured philosopher 100 yards off, or from a
hoary, half-dressed Pagan at a third-storey win-
dow. They were a fat, comfortable-looking
crowd, and they aired their Sunday best on a fine
Sabbath “ all a sainee white feller.” In front of
a smoky little shop, possessed of only one small
window, in which a roast fowl, beautifully
browned and highly polished, hung suspended by
a string, and served as a roost for half the flies in
the lane, was congregated a particularly verbose
and noisy crowd, attracted evidently by the bril-
liant conversational powers of one of their number
—a short but enormously fat John who leaned
in the doorway. He was fatter than fat, his
obesity was phenomenal, it would not have dis-
credited the treatment of those wily men who pre-
pare prize hogs for agricultural shows. Layers of
blubber bulged about his eyes, leaving only two
comical slits for him to peer through ; his cheeks
sagged below his great double chin, and his mighty
neck rolled almost on to his shoulders, and vijj
brated like jelly with every movement. But his
corporation was his greatest pride, it was the envy
and admiration of all his friends; it jutted out,
bold and precipitous, and seemed to defy the
world. This Celestial phenomenon was dressed
in the very latest Chinese style ; gorgeous silks of
many colours bedizened his capacious person, his
feet were encased in the richest stub-toed, wooden
shoes, his hat was a brilliant building direct from
Flowery Land, and his proud tail swept the floor.
A dandy dude was he—a heavy swell from home.
He was oily and clean, looking as if he had been
well scraped and touched up with a greasy rag.
He was jolly, his smiles went from his ears to his
toes like ripples on a lake, and succeeded each
other like winking. He was full of jokes, and a
wild sort of Chinese humour. I have read that
the Chinese delight in punning; this man must
have been the king of Mongolian punsters, judg-
ing from the merriment his every remark was
wont to receive. He was brimming with irony,
sarcasm, and sparkling repartee. A white man
could never grasp his witticisms; after translation
they sounded much like childish nonsense, but
anyone who listened to him would feel confident
that he was a comical dog all the same._
• - «
In compliance- with a suggestion from the
portly host, the Chows streamed after him through
th,e dark, duty “shop” into a long low room on
the left, where were a number of tables covered
with matting. Beating himself at the head of one
of these, and producing the “ tools,” the fat man
prepared ;to» preside over the game ; his small eyes,
twinkling keenly enough now from out of the
depths of his bead; and soon, all, were enthralled in
the mysteri.es of fan-tan. The Chinaman, stoical
under all other circumstances, gambles like a fiend;
these men were soon worked into a delirium of ex“
citemeut. but the,fat Mongolian was always cool,
and whilst the sums of money before the players
fluctuated his rose, steadily, surely.
A sign over the door of the little, smoky
shop, translated into Queen’s English, implied
that Sin Fat, Chinese cook, lived and plied his
trade within, and was prepared to fulfil all orders
wi,th promptitude. That sign was a bold and
brazen lie. Sin Fat was no cook, and the bur-
nished fowl which hung in the window was only a
blind—a window-blind, so to speak—intended to
beguile “ him dam fool white feller.” Sin Fat
ran a gambling-hell and something worse. Sin
had attained his ambition ; he was making
money hand oyer fist; he was also making flesh.
The colonial climate agreed with him. He had
many friends. When Constable Mahoney, Ser-
geant Mulduckie, or Private O’Brien met him
they greeted him like a brother, they winked
knowingly, dug him jocularly in the ribs, and in-
sinuated, that he was a sly dog. These zealous
guardians of public property and morality had
mastered the art which is necessary to every
“ number ay the foorce ” who would have his
bank-book and little terraces in the suburbs—the
art of not seeing too, much,
•
Our hero, the poor broken Chow who
landed in the city not many years before, without
a shilling or a change of raiment, had, by patient
industry and steadfastness of purpose, acquired
an extensive business and a quantity of capital at
interest. Beyond the little shop, adorned with,
the. pendant fowl, stretched to the right and left
till the back premises of half the houses in the
block seemed to be absorbed, numerous small
rooms —cabins, reeking with the nauseating odour
of opium and pollution and Chinamen, and always,
clouded with smoke. There was no order, no.
design, in the building of these cribs ; big rooms-
had been portioned off and holes cut in partitions
recklessly. You groped through the place, and
might find your way, to your great surprise, into,
two or three filthy lanes at the back, right, or left
The curious European, on a voyage of discovery,
saw in these rooms, through the clouds of choking,
evil-smelling opium-fumes, debilitated Chinamen,
with faces like animals’, floating to hell in the-
midst of visions of heaven ; long, skinny coolies;
Indians, and other vile Asiatics.; and, worst of all;
European girls, corrupt below anything else in
nature, excepting only the ghouls they consorted
with. Girls of sixteen, decoyed in at the front
door, by the sheen of silk and the jingle of gold,
and then, left to percolate through that terrible,
den, to be finally cast out amongst the slime and
rottenness of the lanes—horrible creatures, with
nothing of humanity left within them, and hardly
the semblance without.
* * *
Mrs. Sin Fat was well and hearty ; she
had fine clothes ad lib., but no longer thought of
deserting her dear lord, perhaps because she saw
that he was not now so very anxious to prevent it.
A great assistance in the business was the tall,
dark woman, who could put on style; she clung
to her old love—the gin-bottle, and frequently
worked up a small cyclone, an hysterical fit


When next you bake try Pemell’s Skow-whitk Rou.ru
Pi.oi.it, anti yoitr bread will be &« white as snow.
Miarly h P ' 111 1
the procmov'?’ tended to militate
i, for thi °/ the house by suspending
*S.Fa h ‘u®! >f in g. In these moments
P "nladyiiL called herself many most v ile
. lr ’ ; s pat u Pf l , an >es, bit her arms, tore her
ijff?? heavy and 1 ? rd h and «P«rned him with
iJ.f h ' lr! >ng'l»ttL hard i ev t n &om & to the ex '
at th e 8 an d other dangerous pro-
in''j " as Unn]p„„„ en , of. the best customers.
lx, h it when ill 1 ' ®m condescended to
i n t , 4 thick veil f , m le sa Jhed forth in fine raiment
(on. Public n a ,.i. lcea i . n o half her face to wander
motion with ! and and enter into
>alfi ol ' r,? adiiicr youn B' girls who were airing
nboiv u fl fi* thenfsrv o®B,lll^ 0 ® 8,111^? 8 ‘ n the shades. She
WlrH birth W o et y - Ollf ' at a time always)
& d CihL > r flowe rs; but she was at her
JJJ h !>0, ‘ ti<: favour gorgeous
> Sta °h dwelling
She
» i"' 1 ' th£
JliSrlL^UlUv.
I thro!? the m by a
SS&sjS
V VpAbau-
ii, here.” 1 J e who
f>°t »k? r! ' Pat
(I ’ 1,11 cm* success-
! 0v fiftj cc t es i con '
tml atB tradX failure B.
»& e that h WaBs ° ex-
»ife s dever” Wev ®F>
as his
vt
SitCs'lt
SchJ.','* 1 :;! i| i’
%1 °ndf v d ' apace,
ls bei the olr»
hhASh Country. b
his ‘ . a hve \ n as a re-
S? e by^^alian.
'%i>Hrc/of tblB time
l^d^W^'e-un-
-I^s
S l °t the P^nths
S S« of htisiness.
{% fc bl « to V ’ assio »
"ia *ttn Uovv attaf nt ? ru Plate, and Sin Fat,
■CMrtXWa** a Nation so exalted that
ajty, A°r a i. n e '' ra tb of a tall female armed
<CHAr felt tk^ ed st ick compromised his
(v , P*ant m was time to exert his
hy a c ’ a y Nm , foot with a sounding
i 1 his ad vent * bead of the firm was over
Th l e acti cal A, m T victim, a young girl
iW vA® deco,, •• Ve judged would prove pro-
Worn ® tais case was a loudly-
soin W X'Mln,, '.'h° shortly before had
in that line. The
<f a dar h, and thin, but hand-
' Se tter of a weak parent. She
With le B>°lden cord and the hook
skill H o r OWn v anity by an angler
'N 5 her Y as mightily pleased
hf^i 5 ac(,„;.A- to b i s household ; lie con-
j'i aVV ’hgch 'iH. l^lo ? l to the establishment,
S* wir "-as s i| e, ; tlon - a few hours after
' iSX aiA'dch ' vitb her in the one room
\l' v 'tlim ra ction ' T any pretensions to elean-
erflt.*™ draped and hung
l( * r '-gaww ; f . ridiculous, nigh-coloured,
' into airl >’ furnished. This
i> v rh 'A 1 a h novices were first
Jn th P L ,y h-ft it they received their
touted hard course of misery which
0? hrst , l>on - Sin was introducing
. finai tlan P 1 P e °f opium—that devils
o ) attl «d to reateHt ally. Tlie obese
\>u lBalla ti ;° v he r in tender tones, like.
• U r ? n a sort ov Was > and the girl, half-
:iv; ’***•» »M u ar eM ,nd ioked
*?if| } t])o i *
. ha'f °P en ed, and Mrs. Sin
n! lt hnie to Hee tlie strange
hs» as »he'si looked wild and un-
L Cjtt sjA eyp s epped over the threshold,
1 eIA shit 1 Of, beanie f° Un . tere d the face of the
horrifying.
„J®. whispered, supporting
Xf-t Jfiothi&st the door. The ex-
■ X hah' h A m<ms - for a wonder—it
■lLkll 7 The, the expression of strong
pv a herce determination
< f <A s he mu »cl e and sinew in
s^\' v >th tb ® girl’s m e . into the room, dashed
VW Xv*! I°>'ce ' f |j an ds, and, seizing her by
ItW’i,' c ( y : hat made the Ixmes crack,
! hS n° ll ,?es'f 1 ! le • V- miss? Your name?
dir) ts ( i {distAhnow v ” need not scream, Jessie
» { ; you. , have watched you
:wXv; ha Met J ears - tSo your tender-
X® v ih Uie tr, y ° U ‘h'ht this way, as he
V l,cl ' «>1» I H« i» too
VvC. JII, X fatl ' ° U Wlll have to go out
NXbCt V> m Sf- 1)0 y°» hear me ?
Hj - vi) | death A °A l ev er come here again
Hi/%, a gai, v.' p Remember, I swear by
for you, and if you
Ho’AdhockAfid have* y°, u on the spot! They
of o r !j b dresses, handsome
vthj’ tio t i?opp lieef f puld, didn’t they ? They
XAtS hwW v th c miserable wretches
‘keib 1 «lth y °”' rt There i, no finery
>, “> ;m ( | | nd misery, and horror.
All,' Now, ‘‘‘‘tln'owi'lmrdea,ltaly
*S l* 11 and no wonder,
KSS Csfe hke a vice, and her face
X ®ghtmare. Mrs. Sin Fat
11 1'[ \vjn® rusi tior atirl be i re turned her husband
f/‘NSh?Nat m Placed the key in his
VtNvp* AA !u a f ury, but checked
v‘f % got t, the air.
' v A y? V ®r lA U v te slle hissed.
. 'h\ ;?,°U Bh P ba d dared Übt * n^- on a holder
b Shall ga^ d i
htay ,
ert! all a Hatue.” And -
crossed into another room. Sin had paid his
agent a big commission on this girl, and was de-
termined not to lose her. Besides, he had taken
a fancy to her himself, he would rather have lost
the mother than the daughter. Mrs. Sin Fat did
not storm and rage, she turned away with a calm
ness that was unnatural, but presently she
followed Sin into the room, and came close to
him, hiding one hand in the folds of her dress.
“ That girl,” she said, calmly, “ is she to go? ”
“ No, no 1 Go yourself, be dam ! ”
. • •
These memorable words were the last
ever spoken by the great, the prosperous Sin Fat.
A knife flashed before his eyes, and was driven to
the hilt in his side. He fell forward with only a
groan, and the fall forced the heavy handle of the
pig-sticker deep in between his fat ribs. Mrs.
“He was full of jokes, and a wild sort of Chinese humour.”
Bin Fat coolly removed the keys from his pocket,
and went out, followed by a little stream of bright
blood which ran along the floor and under the
closed door as if to keep watch upon her. Mrs.
Fat next entered the room where she had left the
new girl—her own daughter, as the fates would
have it. The girl was sitting, gazing about her,
dazed and confused.
“ Here, come with me,” said the woman,
seizing her roughly by the arm, “come with me,
and see the delightful life you would have of it in
this house!” She led the girl through the vile
den, showed her all its abominations, and at last
pushed her into one of the filthy alleys. “ Here,”
she said, “you would be thrown out in a few
months time, a degraded wretch. A fine, gay life,
eh? Now go, and he a good woman if you can.
“The art which is necessary to every ‘mimber av the foorce' who would have his little terrace
in the suburbs.”
So help me Heaven, if you ever come back I will
kill you. Remember that, night and day.” The
girl hurried away, full of horror and fear, but
saved, and her mother followed her at a distance.
• *
Sin Fat was found, and duly inquested.
A verdict of murder was returned, and a warrant
issued for the arrest of Mrs. Sin Fat, but she was
never caught. Only one man ever cast eyes on
her again ; that was eight days after the murder,
and he was a stoical old ferryman who was work-
ing his lumbering craft across the river lato one
night when something struck the prow, turned
«!owly round, and quietly drifted with the dark
h . ' dy ' It turned over after the
: ‘i ; .1 the man saw a white
V.i. tie ov flight, surrounded by a
mass of black hair which formed a sombre halo.
The ferryman looked after it curiously for a time,
then he resumed his rowing, muttering : “Only a
body! Well, I don’t want t r be mixed up in no dam
inkwests, so let it slide.”
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Viscount Canterbury, ex-GoVernor of Vie l
toria, has gone bung. They all do it.
Max O’Rell is in the States, and engaged
on another book —“ Le Frere Jonathan.”
Truth is stranger than fiction. There is
in Sydney a gentleman named Bedlington B< >dv-
comb.
Unitarian Walters comes to Sydney. His
Melbourne congregation aretooLil>eral l monistic
for him.
There was once a firm of auctioneers in
Melbourne the partners in which were named
Bliss and Joy.
A well-known member of the last N.S. W.
Parliament at one time figured as a street-musician
on the Gulgong rush.
“ Governor Loch was slung from his steed
whilst reviewing the Victorian army. The horse
is Australian.” — Australian Star.
G umboil Cairns has taken his seat in the
Lords, there to vote against any measures which
don’t happen to suit his own interests.
Mr. J. A. Andrews, of Dunolly, Vie. r
whose “ Van ward ” is familiar to BULLETIN'
readers, has in the press a volume of verso.
Bishop Luck (R.C.), of Auckland, N.Z.,
is the son of a Roman Catholic priest ! But then
his father took orders after his mother died.
When the alleged poet Sladen was asked
which were in his opinion the best hundred books,
he meekly replied : “ I have not yet written a
hundred books. ”
Our old friend Normanby is once more on
Australian soil. He is an almost unique specimen
of an ex- Australian Governor who hasn't gone
and abused the colonies.
Brassey, alia s De Bressi, is desirous of
“ combating by all the. legitimate means m our
power ” the Republican spirit of Australia. One
way would be for him to return us all our half!
crowns.
The rumour that Henry George’s friend.
Dr. M‘Glynn, intends caving in to the Pope is
untrue. The cry, “Our religion from Horne, but
not our politics, ” gains ground every day among
the RiC. s there as here.
The Earl of Lonsdale is, we read, noiv on
his way to the North Pole, accompanied only by
his valet and a dog. His lordship is cooling down.
Never a "V iolet blooms, remarks a slangy Londoti
paper, in the An-Tart-ic regions.
Pinsuti, the Florentine Waltzist and senti-
mental song man, is dead. He was playing on the
piano, and suddenly supcumbed to heart-disease*
All pretty girls loved Pinsuti, and Pinsuti, in his
time, returned the com-
pliment as well as he
could.
Lord Carington will,
no doubt, be delighted ro
learn that the current
number of the London
Sporting Times contains
a reprint of the celebrated
Carington versus Gren-
ville Murray assault and
Queen’s Messenger libel
case.
In announcing the
serious illness of Mr.
Angus Cameron, Chair-
man of Committees in the
N.S.W. Legislative As-
sembly, the Even xng
News actually speculates
on the death of the hon.
gentleman, and names
Mr. Garrard as his suc-
cessor. (See E.N. April
3th.)
By the strange irony
of fate, Lady Anne
Blunt assisted the other
Sunday at a commemora-
tion of the services of her
grandfather, Lord Byron
in the cause of Greek in-
dependence, while her
husband, imprisoned un-
der the Coercion Act,
was picking oakum in an
Irish gaol.
Miss Munck, who
married Prince Oscar of
Sweden, was previously
engaged to a cavalry
officer, and broke off the
match when the mar-
riage-day was fixed. The
reasons alleged were
divers—from a mistress
And several infants to
want of pluck on the part
of the officer.
Joseph Chamberlain,
who is 48, is about to
marry for the third time—the prospective bride
being a rich Canadian. While in America lately
he was entertained by a gilded snobess who as-
sembled for his delectation 18 of the most beauti-
ful girls she knew —Chamberlain being the only
man present.
“Sir Henry Parkes says he has but few
friends, but half of those are amongst the most
distinguished men and women now alive, and one
half of them are amongst the poorer part of the
population.” This is, after all, only a roundabout
way of saving that Parkes’ best friends are those
who don’t really know him.
Lord Howard de Walden, the latest Eng-
lish nobleman to figure in a police-court scandal,
was described the other day by a British general,
who said : “ The first time I saw De Walden was
in the Crimean War, He was drunk, sitting on a
log, and drinking raw brandy. He has been
drunk ever since, and is drunk now. ”
Sir Thomas M‘llwraith never looked better
in his life. That heavy look about the face, which
came with severe business anxieties, has passed
with them, and the great and Protec-
tionist cuts, hilariously along over that political
tide in the affairs of Queensland which iis leading
on to the Premiership and prosperity.
Whether the German Emperor has can-
cerous laryngitis or not is still undeclared as cer-
tain ; but laryngitis of any sort will permanently
■unfit him for anything like hard work, and the
■chances of it degenerating into active phthisis in
,-a bleak wet climate like that of Berlin are very
great. His life is not worth counting on for three
months.
Mrs. Lowe, once the bride of Adam ’Lindsey
Gordon, is now the wife of a small South Aus-
tralian selector, and the mother of several
children. She witches the world with noble
horsemanship at the local shows, but Lowe doesn’t
write ]x>ems to her after the fashion of “Where
shall we go for our garlands gay at the closing of
the year r’
A cablegram to the Australian Press states
that Jay Gould has “ made charges against James
Gordon Bennett which, if true, will exclude the
latter from society.” Nobody can tell the world
much that is fresh about J.G.B. As the revela-
tions made at the time he was cow-hided by young
May were not enough to exclude him from society,
Jay Gould won’t be able to socially damage
him much now.
When Hengist Horne was in Melbourne
he gave a copy of several works of his, including
the “London Magazine,” which he edited, and
which contained contributions from Wordsworth,
Browning, Mrs. Browning, &c. (this was tin-
cause of his well-known correspondence with tin-
poetess, since published), to the Public Library.
These books are full of annotations of his, some
very interesting. They contain his final correc-
tions of “The Death of Marlowe,” the finest
■dramatic fragment in the Elizabethan style since
Webster.
W. S. Gilbert, coming down from a great
reception, lately, stood in a hall waiting for the
servant to bring him his coat and hat. As he
stood there, a heavy swell, descending, took Gil-
bert for a servant in waiting, and sang out to
him : “ Call me a four-wheeler 1” Gilbert placed
one glass in his contemplative right eye, and,
looking blandly at the swell, said: “ You are a
four-wheeler!" "What do you mean?” said the
swell. Said Gilbert: “ You told me to call you a
four-wheeler, and I have done so. I really
couldn’t call you a hansom, you know.”


THE IMPERIAL CONNECTION, BY MEANS OF WHICH THE CHINAMAN EXPLOITS AUSTRALIA.
UNITED AUSTRALIA: “ I PONT WAN T TO BE NASTY ANP CUT THE PAINTER. I’LL JUST DROP MY END!”




SUPPLEMENT TO “ THE BULLETIN, ”-SYDNEY, N. S. WALES— APRIL 14, 1888.


The Chinese Question.
YOUNG AUSIRALI A: “I MUST KILL HIM, BUT HES SUCH A NASTY BEAST. I DON'T KNOW WHERE TO CATCH HOLD OF HIM FIRST.”




THE LOGIC OF FREETRADE.
THE BULLETIN (to Sir Henry Parkas): “WHAT IS THE USE OF YOUR PARTY HELPING TO BAR OUT THESE WRETCHED WAGE-SLAVES WHILE YOU ALLOW THEIR PAUPER-MADE GOODS TO COME IN DUTY-FREE?
juurton
that Cha
Chang So
himself to
ay positiv
" to k


A pretty face, a nice disposition, a command actual or
prospective of a good dowry enforces attention from the
sterner sex and an influence something akin to mesmeric
acts until a culmination or union follows. With royalty
the passion we call love is hampered with diplomatic con-
siderations and a Prince or Princess are not allowed the
objectof theirchoice without weighing these contingencies.
Every requirement met at Bray Bros., 402 and 404
Oeorge-street, and marital outfits in Glass and China of
surpassing beauty. *
FRECKLES,
These unsightly subcutaneous
discolorations can be effectually
eradicated by the use of Clements’ Frkcklebane, and by
no other preparation. Harmless, safe, and effectual.
Beware of imitations which are useless. Sent post free on
receipt of ‘2s. lOd. N.S.W. penny stamps or P. 0.0. by F.
M. Clements, 141 King-street, Newtown, Sydney, or from
the City Agents, \V, 11. Soul &Co., Pitt-street, Sydney.'
A Slight Mistake. —It turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “What is the name of that’” meaning the liquid,
replied, “Detective Soap.” E nee the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no dor bt, the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on t ie flowers. 3
W. H. PA
AND 00., LIMITED
LI* 0
Established 1853,
Are as usual showing the largest a
host assorted stock of
01
PIANOS, ORGANS, # V9
AND
Musical Instrument
1 0 yf f
Which they are selling at extremely •
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY
Special atten 1 ion is called to the , e jh a
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reh» u
mtnts :
mil and LECHLSITER 1
The Wonderful TOOK PP 5
THE BEAUTIFUL TONE p
estey a Co. mm o
New and improved models of ° ! L el qgo jt’
just received, alsoan immense »
ment of new and popular mm
Better Value cannot
Obtained Else
llustra'ei catalogues mailed on
ic^.U
to
enquirers are requested to give ~ ftg
the class of instrument required s°
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H PALING ft Cfe
350 QEOROE STREET, th:c. P-° rS
fr o:
0
Society
The Melbourne Telephone Exchange is a
hard-working institution, earnest to a fault and
with an eye to the picturesque and beautiful. It
was originally founded as a gymnasium for busi-
ness men, who ring up a firm in the next street,
and then have to walk a mile-and-a-half to the
central office to beg the Fenian, dynamiter, and
bomb-thrower in charge “ for heaven’s sake to un-
hitch them again,” ana, in addition to affording
gentle exercise to the public, it paints the whole
town blue every day, and then asks the com-
munity if they suffer from symptoms akin to the
above. Generally they do. When the Y.M.C.A.
rings up, the telephone official hitches it on to a
ballet-dancer and leaves it there for a day and
a-half ; he puts the Social Purity Society in com-
munication with the tobacconist who sells photos,
in tights, and the anxious mamma who calls up
the doctor at the dead of night to ask why baby
grinds its teeth so much usually finds she is talk-
ing to the cemetery. The teetotal lecturer is
rung out of bed at 2 a.m. because the Govern-
ment’s small boy thinks the public-house wants to
speak to him ; the Orangeman is joined on every
five minutes to the priest, and when he remon-
strates he is passed on first to an Anarchist and
then to a Chinese laundry. And when a "funeral
procession goes round to the office to ask what it
all means the supercilious boss merely says:
“ Don’t you feel well, young man ? ” There is no
acute hurry or anomalous celerity about the de-
partment either. Zoologists have proved con-
clusively that it is ungetitlemanly to perspire, and
the department is gentlemanly above all things.
* * *
George Eliot says : “We are apt to be
kinder to the brutes that love us than to the
women that love us. Is it because the brutes
are dumb ?”
• * *
Mr. W. Conway and Miss A. Bauld were
married a little while ago in South Melbourne.
Your attention, please :
Once she was Bauld and he was Conway,
Now the girl is Conway called,
And not far distant is the day
When he’ll be Bauld.
•
A certain Commodore Ashmead—a rela-
tive of Ashmead Bartlett — is trying to convert his
family-seat into a wetnurse farm for a foundling
institution, because he read somewhere that one
per cent of foundling infants die in consequence
of being left to be reared per the bottle. He
heard also that Spanish infants in a similar pre-
dicament feed from goats direct. So the old
Commodore has goats knee-deep all over the
stamping-ground of his sires.
One of the numerous tribe of cads who
frequent hotel bars for the primary object of
“ mashing ” the attendant Hebes met more than
his match a few days ago in the person of a buxom
daughter of the Emerald Isle, whose brogue was
rich, but not unmusical. Mr. Cad saluted the
damsel in accents intended to be imitative of her
own, and the reply he received was this : “Faix,
a touch of a brogue would do you good, I think—
the kind o’ brogue one buys for eight-and-six a
pair, you know!”
* * *
Frank Miles, the artist by whom were
drawn those pencil sketches of idyllic females
which every young man with blue eyes and a
straw-coloured moustache used to hang up in his
bedroom, is dead. He was Oscar Wilde’s first
friend, and gave evidence in the Colin Campbell
case, when he took a brace of grouse for a couple
of chickens. One of his fads, not unknown to
other artists who make a speciality of depicting
the female form divine, was searching the slums
for pretty faces. He once picked up a girl,
“Sally,” the daughter of a street apple-woman,
and brought her to his studio. Such an exalted
sphere raised Sally’s ideas, and she decamped with
a young blood, the brother of a baronet. Miles
called at this young man’s house, and in his
absence called him names.
♦ * *
A newspaper recipe commences, “Chicken
broth. Cut an old fowl into slices. ” We always
suspected this.
He was a portly citizen out on a wet day,
and he was in a ’bus going home, when the vehicle
suddenly drew up, and in got a young thing in a
weeping wet mackintosh and dripping gamp. She
was evidently ashamed at thrusting herself in
in her drowned condition, and as she was well-
favoured—a plump and pleasing person, in fact—
the fat dignitary squeezed himself into the
smallest possible compass to give her room, and
started a friendly confab to—na, hum, reassure
hhr. They got on admirably, and when the ’bus
stopped in front of the citizen’s—his wife was
holding the new baby up at the window, by-the-
way—he found it was her point of alighting, too.
•
He helped her out, and—but why ciraimlocute !
In a few minutes the polite citizen discovered that
he had been airing his best talk and “company
manners ” for the benefit of his new cook !
* * *
“I think these rooms will suit me,” said
the young lady lodger, “and I shall suit you. I
am very quiet.” “ Yes, miss,” said the landlady.
“ And no cats, or dogs, or husband,” continued
the young lady lodger. “No, miss,” responded
the landlady. “ And no gentleman callers. ’ The
landlady's face fell. “But, miss,” she said, sadly,
“ ‘ovv about my perkizits for a hopenin’ of the
door ?”
* • *
Photographer (to sitter) : “I saw you ;tt
church last Sunday, Miss Smith.” Sitter: “Oh,
did you?” Photographer: “Yes, and also your
friend, Miss Brown —if you could raise your chin
a trifle, thanks—and what an atrocious-looking hat
she had on. [After a pause.] There, Miss Smith,
it is over, and I think we have caught a very
pleasant expression. ”
* • *
She : “You can’t eat your cake and keep
it.” He : “Oh yes, you can — the kind you make.
* * *
An unfortunate girl committed suicide at
Charters Towers (Q.), recently. The body was
recovered, but though the Towers pays eight
A MINING EXPERT: A TERROR TO “WILD CATS.”
:Vt(MW '« CON|i o/r
\ V/|T||Ji| T qjtl
clergymen to look after the spiritual needs of
everybody up that way, there wasn’t one of them
present to read the burial service over the pitiful
corpse:—
“ ‘ She sinned through her love,’ ” you say ?
Dear me ! what a feafral case !
“ ‘ Then put herself out of the way 1 ’ ”
The impudent brazen-face !
Ask me to bury her ! Sir !
Answer me this if you please--
If I were to do this for her
Where should I get my fees ? ”
• • •
Mrs. Bernard Beere, at whose theatre the
bibulous Tummy lately got into serious trouble,
over which the Australian dailies are doing their
best to put a thick coat of whitewash, is a tall,
rather fleshy, but ill-made woman, and there are
among Australians several who remember her as a
Spiers and Pond barmaid, and have a vision of a
great, slow, sensual-looking creature in black
sprawling over a counter and listlessly serving
Piccadilly mashers. Then she got to know
Herman Vezin, the actor, Oscar Wilde, Oscar’s
elder brother and sub-editor of Vanity Fair
(he is “ Ruffler”), and all that queer Bohemian
aesthetic set. “ Mama” (poor old Lady Wilde,
the “ Esperanza” of Fenian days and United
Ireland and the Nation), interested herself in
Mrs. Beere, and she presently appeared in the
murky depths of the aesthetic drawing-room in
Ovington Square, in erratic dress, as a reciter of
“ Cleopatra” and other Swinburnian pieces. She
met Tummy first at Oscar Wilde’s with Mrs.
Langtry and Irving Bishop, after she had
gone on the stage and had not made much of
a success. Then she set up for herself at the
Globe with Charles Kelly (Ellen Terry’s husband
• —the one at the time, that is : he is since dead)
and played Tennyson’s “Promise of May,” and'
an adaptation of Charlotte Bronte’s “Jane Eyre,”
both financial failures. After that the Bancrofts
took her on at the Haymarket as Fedora, and she
imitated Sara Bernhardt in the same way as some-
body else we know has imitated Mary Anderson.
She has been married twice, and is backed up by
lots of money, but whose is another question.
When she met Mrs. Campbell Praed she was
struck with the realism of Mrs. Praed’s novel,
“Nadine.” Certainly, the Beere has the knack
of making friends, both male and female. There’s
inore of the Parisian, Ouidesque, Cleopatra cocotte
in her impersonations than in those of any other
woman on the English stage, and that’s all the
fashion just at present.
• * #
Now that vigorous anti-Chinese legislation
looms in the immediate future it is a pity that the
Sandhurst people encouraged some 800 lepers to
break out in barbarous magnificence of banners
and tomfoolery at the Easter fair. These China-
men’s shows, seriously considered, are a strong
argument in favour of clearing the race out of
Australia.
Sir Henry Loeli has
a genius for tumbling off
his horse when he is play-
ing at soldiers. He once
came to grief at an Albert
Park review, and he re-
peated the performance
after the Easter sham
fight at L&ngwarrin. His
Excellency and escort
were riding back to camp
when the great man
dropped his whip and
pulled up suddenly. Con-
sequently, theescortwent
thump up against their
illustrious leader and
down he came. Sir
Henry endeavoured to
uphold the dignity of the
Crown by getting outside
his hoss once more, but,
ultimately, he was in-
duced to seek safety in a
barouche. Home they
brought their warrior
covered with bruises, and
the pomp and circum-
stance of mimic war ter-
minated in vinegar and
brown paper.
* * *
The London Gazette
announces that “ the pre-
sentation of Mr. R.
Standish Sievier at a
levee held by the Prince
of Wales m July last
has been cancelled. ” Mr.
R. Standish Sievier is,
as most people know, no
less a personage than the
old friend Mr. “Robert
Sutton ” (Sievier) the
cash-bookmaker who was
ordered to gaol at Mel-
bourne by a snobbish
bench because he smacked
the face of that shady
young cub, Lord Deer-
hurst, in a local public-
house. Sutton’s ancient
enemy has, no doubt, been
on his tracks in England.
“ The cancellation of a presentation at a levee,”
remarks a London paper, “rarely happens, prin
cipally because any of the rag-tag-and-bobtail of
the professions, or a tradesman if he hold a volun-
teer officer’s commission, or is a J.P., is eligible;
nor do they often occur with regard to presenta-
tions at Drawing-rooms, only three having oc-
curred in the last 20 years. But frequently cards
for the Drawing-rooms have been withdrawn at
the last moment, an instance occurring not long
since in the case of a middle-aged bride of a
baronet. Everything was arranged, the dress
was duly admired, the lady drove about telling all
her friends of her good luck. When alas ! a
peremptory order came from the Lord Chamber-
lain’s office. A mistake, of course ; but neverthe-
less, she did not go the next year, and has not
been yet. Some little frivolity during her first
husband’s life is supposed to have come under the
notice of the powers that be, and stopped the
ambitious dame. ” Mind all these proprieties are
observed in the court of a Queen who recently ac-
companied a man who is already morganatically
married to claim in marriage her own grandchild.
* * *
Here we are again :
“ From Devonshire comes the news that the erratic
landlord of Torquay, Lord Haldon, after divesting him-
self of most of his patrimonial inheritance,lncluding the
paternal debts, and contriving during the process to
quarrel with a goodly number of the tenants and pur-
chasers, has departed from Plymouth 1 to the Antipodes,
with his eyes fixed on Sydney. In Australia, however,
he is sure to come across many a titled wanderer, for Aus-
tralia is a place where peers and sons of peers, especially
younger sons, do largely congregate, and it is? a
the cards that some day he may come face to 11 „ n i s e,
fair-moustached pleasant-looking youth, ana 1
not without surprise, his fellow Devonian, }0 p fflan .
Valletort, whom he last met when acting S .■
jockey at some local steeplechase.
Paragraph showing the kind of infhi®
which enabled Lord Loftus in his halcyon C pQ erg .
get the British Ambassadorship at St.
“ The dowager Marchioness of Ely, who nueeih
.vears has been the favourite lady-in-waiting ol t her
may be said to be the only really intimate en t at tdl
own sex the Queen possesses. Having been pi' e * j®#
of Her Majesty's confinements, the Queen seems
obtained an impression that no royal accouche’ ,
successfully take place without her, and, not com
insisting on her presence at the birth of 1110 aS to
numerous royal grandchildren, even went so j a t
send her over to Paris in 1856, in order to be P j®-
the first appearance in the world of the late 1» bjudly,
perial of France. Lady Ely is a gentle-mannere ,
and affectionate old lady, of a somewhat monrii 0 f
sition, and ever ready to mingle her tears " lio"' -
the Queen over real or imaginary sorrows. 7 uiar-
ever, does not by any means prevent the woi ■ jfte
chioness from having an eye to the main chance,
number of members of her family who fill weH- nie thin|f
posts at court or fat government sinecures is s Q (or
quite astonishing. One of them, Mr. Loft* l3 ’ j s n o«
several years acted as page of honor to. the Q uee ’
married to a Miss Leech, of Philadelphia.
Even should peace be kept in
year, the armies and navies of the chief “ a
cost £280,000,000. '
.Ripon and Morley couldn’t have a bahfi e
at Dublin, because no one would dare to 1 jjy
the health of Her Gracious in a popular a. |
in Dublin. ~ ,
artklieh
Dear Bulletin, —I have been a ” w the
lam at heart a soldier-citizen. Accorduk
present legislative powers that be, ~
papers are my schoolmasters, for I am
the fifth book.” Read this : sllo nl<f
“ While a reasonable amount of compensative (jrilb
he allowed to all men for their attendance ato 0 f th
as are absolutely necessary, the larger proper nW
annual pay ought to be awarded to skill win
varying with the proficiency of the individual.
Note. —The best shot in my brigade (R-
-tailor, who could not get promotion, as u p :i
such a bad scholar that he never corn
pass, leave-list, or guard-room report P ]jip
“ And whether a high standard of marksman v , oll i<)
acquired by practice at wild horses or kangai‘ e j tl
a matter of no moment, so long as it was ava .
service of the country when required.” hysj^
I know five or six kangarooers who, frpiT 1 jaboli c .
fear, could never be soldiers, and from oniy for
temperament and insobriety would be ti
—well, Parliament. — . 0 j t.h c
“Failure at the second attempt to P as8 p f,'{roi*'^ e
third class should involve dismissal of such m |
ranks, as unfitted for active service in the nel •
Mark ye now'. My pay-sergeant (an (>^ ra vpr 01
artilleryman) never could shoot, but ft ] ‘ 7i
better soldier never gave the word, J (,s '
limber-up!” But 1 suppose 1 am one ■ g to
ci-devants whose croak is “The service i* .|j
the devil, sir.” Yours, Hiram Abiff.
-
Messrs. Cecil Hordern (son of the W e J
Hordern) and Hugh Kittson have recent-!)
one of the most elegant and compleh j
establishments in Sydney, under the
Hordern and Co., situated in Geoig e |
7 *'
opposite the Central Markets, between
Market-streets. This immense concern 1
with a complete assortment of the n e fS f
latest designs in novelties, laces,
goods, &c., from all parts of the eal
looms of France, Germany, India, M
in fact, every civilised community reftfL
boast of manufactories have a
tation here. The place is a perfect
crowded with purchasers from the ope ,lin ”
- closing hour, and the army of polite and a
assistants on the move continually from j ol) 01
night, who are under the personal
Mr. Prout,, we are confident that this
will meet with a brilliant success of "
are truly deserving.*
A SYDNEY ROMAUNT.
It was the time of opera-bouffe,
An aged man sat in the pit,
And by his side—somewhat aloof—
His daughter sat. She was no chit,
But forty-five, or rather over. Her father with a
manner mild
Turned to us as we sat in clover, and introduced
“ My youngest child.”
We loved a dainty page entrancing,
With jocund youth in every line,
Who generally came on dancing
In opera or in pantomime.
She entered now ! with laugh so airy. We asked
the ancient what he thought her.
Hia placid features didn’t vary. “That is,”
quoth he, “my eldest daughter.”
• *


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Koller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
-■-that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
best n the market
Everybody should use Peraell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
aye.
Pepper
Salt
At a hostelry clown South lately it was in-
tended to give a banquet to celebrate the opening
of a new hall, but after extensive preparations
had been made an incident happened which marred
the festivities. The pub. was situated close to the
Chinese Camp, and as the residents of that balmy
locality had been in the habit of paying clandes-
tine visits to the wood-heap, the proprietor bored
auger-holes in several of the best logs, and loaded
them up with blasting-powder, hoping that the
next time the heathens were bent on felony they
would have vividly impressed on their minds a
beautiful moral lesson. A few weeks elapsed, but
no more wood was taken, and when the eventful
morning came the cook set to work to prepare for
the banquet and the fact that the loaded logs
were in the heap seemed quite forgotten. The
culinary artist piled up the fire and threw on
wood to keep it going; and soon the roast-beef
and fat turkeys and geese were wriggling,
and the plum-duff, potatoes, and ham, were
dancing round in the boiling pots. More wood
was thrown on to keep up the heat and everything
seemed to be going splendidly when—-Bang !
Bang ! ! Bang !! ! and the remains of a scalded
cook passed down the passage like a vision,
bumped once or twice in the road, and fell in a
heap in the gutter opposite. The chimney tot-
tered and fell through the roof, three iron pots
rushed upwards through the air, followed closely
by a cloud of steam, smoke, dust, potatoes, ham,
roast-beef, and plum-duff. When the air clearer
a bit a melancholy spectacle presented itself.
Festoons of boiled cabbage hung on every tree for
a hundred yards around, four vagrant dogs lay
slain in the back-yard, and a sundowner was
stretched on the road, his head caved in with
blow from the oven which lay beside him. The
unfortunate cook came to in about half-an hour.
“ It’s just what that fortune-telling cove told
me, ” he mumbled feebly when he got his voice
“ he said some day I’d be struck by lightning.”
* * -
On a balmy afternoon, a few weeks past,
any person walking through the Chinese camp al
Creswick (Vic.) would have been attracted by the
sound of foreign invectives, the screams of women,
and the dull thud of working boots, bamboos, anc
scraps of brick concussing against the front eleva
tion of a frowsy Mongolian with one eye and a
bandy leg. Mons. Ah Wee, market gardener, anc
Professor Hong Kit, hairdresser, were taking il
out of each other with old shovels, handy projec-
tiles, and great determination. They were also
passing severe strictures in the Dutch language,
and calling each other dead dogs, whilst a number
of ladies in broken attire, who were going to have
a wash at the beginning of the, year only some-
thing happened to, prevent it, gathered round and
helped the debate. Two weeks previous to this
riot, Hong Kit and Ah Wee had exchanged wives.
Kit lived to discover that his new spouse was a
magnificent shot with a broken bottle, and had a
vacancy down her neck for alcoholic stimulants
which two breweries could not fill without
working night shifts and all day Sundays.
Thereupon the philosophical heathen relented of
his bargain, ancl wanted to change back ; but Wee
was content with his lot. He said he didn’t
“ savee ” worth a shirt-button with a broken eye.
Then Hong went and brought the woman unto
him, and flopped her down on the floor, because
she had gazed on the beer and was drunken, and
he demanded back his original missus, otherwise
he would spoil Mons. Ah Wee’s native beauty
with a weapon which he had stolen from a
slaughter-yard. Wee immediately entered into
the spirit of the argument, and sliced Hong’s ear
off with a spade. To which the enemy retorted
by prodding out Wee’s front teeth, extending his
mouth westward, and giving his nose a lean on his
eft cheek. The music now played a quick march
and all the neighbours and their wives and dogs
came out, and secured points of vantage, and
offered suggestions, whilst the brace of Pagans
wallowed in the mud, and knocked each other out
of joint with unyielding suhstances. Kit and
Wee are now hard held by the police, and dotted
over with bandages and splints and water-
blisters, and the original Mrs. Hong Kit has gone
to live with a pock-marked Mongolian who col-
lects rags and bones, and is a model husband.
* * *
Eminent botanists and others who have
considered the Chinaman how he grows, and the
Chow when he cometh up as a flower, have often
been struck with the marked resemblance which
exists between Ah Kum and Ah Burn, and have
noted a considerable difficulty in sorting out these
twin heathens. Practical men who didn’t care a
darn for anything have observed the same thing,
and have concluded that it didn’t matter which
was Kum and which Vas Lum, and as neither of
them was any good anyhow, and as Kum was as
useless as Lum, and Lum tvas as objectionable as
Kum, and as Kum and Lum viewed together,
separately, individually, jointly, and severally,
now and for evermore, didn’t seem to be anybody’s
funeral in particular, they have done nothing to
stop it, and the resemblance has gone on growing
till the heathens are harder to sort out than ever.
Not long ago a gentleman named Wallace, residing
at Nymagee (N.S.W.), employed Ah Lum—as he
imagined—to do some clearing, but when it came
to paying the bill Ah Lum and Chang See rolled
up together, and each declared that he was the
Chow who had done the work, and each demanded
the money. Wallace couldn’t distinguish them,
anyhow, and Ah Lum sued him and Chang See
did the same. The defendant produced the
money, and told the Court that if it would
point out his Celestial he would pay up,
but the Court couldn’t. Then a firm named
Burton attached the debt on the ground
that Chang See owed them some money, but
Chang See, finding things getting sultry, declared
himself to be Ah Lum, and his creditor couldn’t
say positively that he-wasn’t, though he was half
inclined to believe that both the men were Chang
See, and that there never was any Ah Lum at all.
Each of the Ah Lums wanted to know why, in
the event of his winning the case, his money
should be annexed to pay the debt of Chang See,
and the Court really didn’t know. It asked the
defendant if he hadn’t put a mark on the Chinaman
whom he employed, and he explained that he only
knew him by the amount of soil and grit attached
to him. Both Chinamen being equally loaded
with earth, the Court came to another deadlock.
Then a deep thinker pointed out that one of the
men must lie Chang See, he having admitted the
fact himself and then changed his identity in
court when his creditor rolled up, and he sug-
gested that if this shameless heathen could be
scruffed out things might become a good deal
plainer to the naked eye. It was found, however,
that the men were so mixed up that even this
couldn’t be done, and an attempt to kick Chang
See would as likely as not leave a bootmark on Ah
Luna. Wallace ultimately suggested that he
should leave the coin with the Court and that both
the Chinamen should go and sue the firm which
claimed Chang See’s money, and that the firm
should sue both of them in return, and he
considered that by this means with an inter-
pleader thr.iwn in and a habeas corpus if they
could find one, they might ultimately obtain
a rule nisi, or something else which might do as
well; at ail events, he wanted to go back to his
cows, and he would leave them to skirmish among
themselves. Then the Court grasped the one and
only solid fact which could be found amid that
wilderness of theory, and a unanimous verdict was
returned that the defendant should keep cool and
lie low, and the Bench would think over it. An
order was also made that the parties to the suit
should look in some other day when they hap-
pened to be passing, and see how the Bench was
getting on.
* * *
Marcus Clarke once observed in a bitter
moment that when a person bearing the sacred
name of Cohen wanted to disguise himself he had
only to call himself Colquhoun and start a Berk-
shire sausage-factory. Those Jews who would
exchange grand old Jewish names dating from the
commencement of history for grandiose appella-
tions which, when tacked on to Semitic words,
only serve to excite ridicule, belong not to true
ancient Israel—they are representatives of the
new Jews —the tribe whose pedigrees start from
GOOD FRIDAY.
MR. SHYLOCK (to his reverence): “MANY HAPPY RETURNS OF THE DAY, MY
VRENDT.”
the old clo’-shop instead of from the Jordan, and
who are distinguished mainly by the profusion of
jewellery on their right forefingers; and, unlike the
Hebrews of ancient descent, they have always had
an inclination to turn dog on the Talmud and
have been possessed by an insane longing for pork.
In the days when Marcus Clarke used to borrow
money of the tribe, Abraham Moses Cohen
was haunted by that same desire to assume
the cognomen of the Gentile which distinguishes
him to-day, the only difference being in the mode
by which the result was achieved. It was the
hindquarters of his hereditary distinction over
which he drew the doormat of oblivion then : now
it is the forequarter which blushes unseen, while
the tail of his designation glares in the light of
open day. The cheap Moses of 1888 has developed
a tendency to call himself Montmorency or Du
Guesclin, and goes about with an effete and blase
aspect of fashion upon his visage; he drops cards
around inscribed with the name of Howard Isaacs
or St. John Levy ;he has an ancestor who came
m with the Conqueror, and, generally, he has a
fondness for going back on the nose which the
sons of Israel have followed so long through the
rolling ages of time. This, in itself, however,
could be endured, but there are other things
which are unendurable. Montmorenei is an
ancient and honourable name, and the halo of
antiquity which surrounds it prevents it from ap-
pearing utterly incongruous when hitched bn to
which were old at the time when Gad
and Napthali cadged the Sunday tail-coats of
the remote Egyptians ; but the new and fresh
Hebrew has no idea of the eternal fitness of things,
and within the last few months we have noted an
inclination on his part to call himself Donald,
which requires to be sternly repressed. Only a
few weeks ago we read in a Sydney paper a report
of a festivity at which Norman Isaacs jostled with
Duncan Ephraim while Montague Moses followed
close behind, and if this sort of thing is per-
mitted to continue we may fall at any time over
Roderick Dhu Manassah, and when we do this it
will be better for Manassah that he had never
been born. The brawny Highlanders of ancient
times who strode bare-legged through the heather
never contemplated lending their names to those
three-ball sons of Abraham who are ashamed of
their ancient father, and had they dreamt of the
indignity in store for them they would probably
have sounded their pibroch in the pawnshops and
raided the old-clo’ establishments with the clay-
more. The glory of the old Celtic race has
■ i’ but k* no reason why Sandy
M Tavish Goldberg should tread upon their
bones, and it would be better for the Hebrew on
the Day of Judgment if he would lie content to
expose his garish cognomen to the eyes of men,
and not try to hide one half of his name in a kilt
winch isn’t big enough to cover the whole of it.
We ask the Chosen Race gently but firmly whether
they mean to be Ephraim or M'Dougal, and we
warn them that they cannot reasonably hope to be
both. lor our own part, we are of opinion that
they had better continue to be Ephraim. The
name looks satisfactory on a bill of sale over a
mangle, and unless the usurious section of the
Hebrews _ purpose going back on the pawn-ticket
of their sires they should not put on uncircumcised
frills which lead only to destruction.
We have been requested to write this item
by a young lady in tears and great trouble. She
was, until last Sunday, the pride and sunshine of
a Melbourne choir, and lots of people went to that
church on account of this little girl with the golden
curls and the violet eyes, and fell in love witli her
by the dozen, and her soprano voice was re-
membered gratefully when the crushed deacon
went round to take up the carnal dust in a soup
plate. But last Sunday misfortune fell upon her,
and between her piteous sobs she informs us that
she will never know joy again unless that day
can be erased from the calendar like the day which
Job wanted to spill out of history at the time
when he opened his mouth in the land of Uz and
cursed on a heap of ashes. The service was pro-
gressing favourably, as usual, and the choir were
Cust beginning to get the upper hand of a slow
hymn after a severe and prolonged struggle, when
the soprano Wesleyan was heard to throw off all
control and gallop right over the scale, thereby
leading the rest of the singers to concuss
violently against a B flat. The congregation
opened their mouths in horror : the leader
uttered public-house observations under his breath;
the whole choir started to canter over the hymn
in a vain effort to keep pace with the little curly -
headed Christian with the violet eyes who was
already two verses ahead and singing like a kero-
sene-tin, but she put on another spurt and got in
front again, and everybody went on anyhow.
Then the clergyman arose and held up his hand
for silence. He asked in an impressive tone that
his young Christian friend would remember the
respect due to the sanctuary and not go on like
the mule that perisheth in a circus, also that
the rest of the choir would not be led away.
He was loth to believe that their beloved sister
had been drinking, but if she had he implored her to
remember that rum and cuss language were fatal
to the immortal soul. Nobody heard any more.
The maddened soprano girl had been singing all
the time and playing a lone hand generally, and
just here she got up on the form and screamed
“ Ho! ho ! he ! he ! he ! oh ! ah ! yah ! ” Then
the congregation waited for the heavens to
fall, and the parson banged the desk, and
said : “ Will our Christian sister please sit
down?” “Yah! wah! whoop! wurrooh 1”
screamed the pretty girl of the choir in reply, and
then some of her lady friends roused themselves
from their petrified horror, and led the afflicted
one out, or rather they seized her and trailed her
into the street. She has not been to service since,
and the young men, the old men, and the boys
might never have known how the sacrilegious out-
rage came about had it not been that the janitor
next day found the mangled corpse of a mouse
just where she had been sitting. Deceased looked
as if he had been taken by surprise, and thumped
on the head with a Bible. We publish this ex-
planation at the request of a beautiful and sorrow-
ing girl, who says it wasn’t her fault and we
respectfully ask that the congregation will think
better of it and take the afflicted one back to the
fold
POLITICAL
POINTS
In 1887, in New South Wales, 514 more
Chinkies paid the poll tax than in 188(5. In the
two years, 381 were naturalised.
Goschen describes the Naval Defence vote
of our Jingo Governments as a contribution to the
Imperial revenue. Taxation without represen-
tation.
The British coercionists refused Wilfrid
Blunt writing-materials in prison. After a month
of it, however, they wobbled round to him with a
slate and pencil! Life is a dream.
Dickson, the vinegary lord of Foreign-
traders and urban land-sharks, has funked match-
ing himself against MTlwraith at North Brisbane.
The workmen are all for Protection.
Kinnaird Rose, the present editor of the
Brisbane Courier, was one of “Griffith’s young-
men.” He wrote a puff of Griffith to accompany
a portrait in a defunct Melbourne monthly.
The N.S.W. Premier doesn’t like the
motto, “ Australia for the Australians. ” His ver
sionis: “ Australia for the people of New South
Wales.” However, Purves doesn’t Q.C. this.
Brisbane Observer says that “dot little
Yarman vote ” will not be planked for the Pre-
mier’s nominees this time. The Germans are full
up of Sir Sawmill—he is too full up of himself.
Buffalo Bill says that in England “ you
forget how to breathe in six months. You are
afraid of robbing somebody else of atmosphere.”
This is quite true—unless you happen to be a land-
lord.
Felton’s new Chinese Act in the U.S. is to
be out-and-out prohibition after Ist June, 1889,
when the emigration-treaty clauses expire. In
1890 the Chinkie in the U.S. will be going: in
1990 he will be gone.
At Mackay (Q.), the other day, they
omitted the usual loyal toasts, and started off with
‘ ‘ The Day We Celebrate. ” Also they overlooked
the health of the Governor, and wound up with
the Australian Republic.
Agricultural labourers in Essex, England,
are getting 10s. a week, and no pay on wet days,
which brings the average to Gs. Heaven bless and
protect I reetrade, which makes the wage of the
Chinkie and of the white man the same !
Premier Parkes said at Junee that Pro-
tection was retaliation, and retaliation was un-
Christian. Yet Parkes retaliated on Watkin and
on Suttor. But then retaliation means paying
back. In one sense, therefore, Parkes never
retaliates.
Reynolds’ Weekly, England’s only truly
Radical paper, is not only excluded from the
House of Commons. The'" so-called Mechanics’
Institute, or (more fashionably) “ Schoolof Arts,”
of Sydney, has not got it. Land-syndicate
* democracy ” everywhere !
Parkes positively complained to a leading
Queensland politician that that colony had shown
“a want of friendly federal spirit,” through the
complaints in its press of the wretched manage-
ment and accommodation of the N.S. Wales rail-
ways ! How childish—how second-childish !
Emigration from the United Kingdom is
increasing, the figures for 1886 and 1887 being re-
spectively 330,804 and 396,702. Australasia last
year received a larger number of immigrants than
Canada, or 34,290 against 32,053. The States
are, as usual, far in the van with a total of
201,603.
( In Berlin, Bismarck’s recent saying, “ We
Germans only fear God !' is being engraved on
brooches, scarf-pins, medals, pipes, mugs, and
everything that will bear an inscription. A
Parisian paper remarks: “The Germans ought,
however, to add to this the words, ‘ and Bis-
marck. ’ ”
German New Guinea extends over 4464
square miles, an area equal to 46 per cent, of that
of the German Empire. The New Guinea Com-
pany (of Teutonic personnel) owns three large
German-built steamers used for trading with
Australia and founding new stations in the Bis-
marck archipelago.
Mr. Fred. T. Wimble (Cairns, N.Q.) has
refused to allow a Mongolian to rent a shop be-
longing to him, even though the leper offered—
first, three months’ rent in advance ; second, a
higher rent than was asked ; and, third, to buy
the property at once—cash on the nail. P.S.—•
Mr. Wimble is a candidate for Parliament,
If Griffith and Co. get beaten at the elec--
tions (which is very likely indeed) they will start
a penny morning paper against the Brisbane
Courier. The report that Groom would
change his played-out Toowoomba tri-weekly
into such a paper is monstrous, but the Tele-
graph may do so, keeping on their evening- issue
as well.
Mr. Purves will never do ! He writes to
Plain Bill that he favours the Continuance of
‘ Australia as an integral part of the British Em-
pire, and as such some voice in the affairs of her*
country /” Some voice! Some ! ! SOME !! 5
Wh-a-a-a-t! And yet this is too narrow for
Dailey. What a lot Plain Bill and the H empire
must want I
ie g°M-diggers of Lambing
Ilat (N.S.W.) gave the Chinamen 10 hours to be
40 miles away under penalty of being hanged by
their jiigtails to the nearest tree. The white man
was triumphant. Lambing Flat is now abandoned
by the digger and submits to its rich alluvial being
utilised by a thousand Chinese gardens. Thus-
does civilisation slowly crawl.
While the Governments in young Aus--
tralia are endeavouring to sell from the people
every bit of picturesqueness they can force on the
land-market, in worn-out Tory England it is
sought to bring in a Bill to secure to the public
the right of access to the mountains, rivers, lakes,
moors, ancient and disused pathways, and ruins
of castles and abbeys in Wales.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, an"
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverl >< 1
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos,
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of grc;e
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Oth. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg
7th, They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks.
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possibhc
by the substitution of bronze for other metals,
th. The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can I><
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
~"r
D
m
mu
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING'MACIIINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic self spooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter :
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clam] >
and shuttle ; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with roller
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent.
Washer is about One Shilling.
/A
r
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refc
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, onh
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet andaae forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484 and 486 George Street, Sydney.
Business Anaoimeements.
THE
“ PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
>llO o£ the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6; a Tin ef the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
iansparent Shaving Soap, ora Jar of Non-irritant Sharing Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
nil the climate, l/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6; Bottle of Bay
“hum or Yaddo Water for use on the face after shaving, 3/6 —17/6.
CIES-A.IG- and.” iiITKEIT,
fotosoi Hair-dressing Saloon, 630 Seorge-street, Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
NEWEST INVENTION—GRATEST NOVELTY.
iHHti
1IV&N
THE
Y*N
Patent Diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being- also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.
Cilolrt Medal, liew Zealand Exhibition, 188?
4.01 d Medal, Highest Award
Foil Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award 11! Gold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 188«.
OAUl'lONV —Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “ Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
m
?SAU
- V!
In consequence of Imitations of THU WORCESTERSHIRE
5.4 UGE which are calculated io deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers see that the Isabel on bottl&
hears their Signature thus —
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle anS
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, WorcesterCrosse and
Blackwell, London , , <5rV. ; and by Groce ~s and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale Agents s Montej joke, Joseph & Co.; David Cohen & C<£7 Sydney.
Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL., Manly.
TEC HI BRIGHTO3ST OB’ N.S W,
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc , are
served on the ■ hortest notice, in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
-here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
do TTote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
vi: itors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEaCH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELST
Sorrento and Echuca,
"Victoria,-
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
tlio most fashionable Spring, Antumn and Summer
report in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
'■ i >!!, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Looms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
P.aths. Beverages Iced.
iai. I. faring & Go.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.B.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartment s. Private and Public Baths.
Alcock’s Billiard Tumble. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. 1. 1. Sjsirinj,
PROPRIETOR.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This- new ancl magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on t’flG most modern principles.
Large and l well-ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites c# Apartments, Best of Attendance,
C mfort of Guests first consideration, position most <{e®tral, jttydmulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors*. Sanitary Arrangements perfect. Bathrooms ora each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt* attention. „
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
"VTTE beg to notify the Public that we have
W been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MREACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGARETTES, also TIES! BRANDS of CMS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices!
£r Note this Pmce 1
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH !
jtST By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 BARRACK CTREE!, mm
(opposite Savings Bank).
XT!OR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
JP Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
‘Bulletin Office.
Shakespeare on the Chinese Leper Ques-
tion : —“ Out damned spot.”—(Macbeth).
Councillor Style, of Williamstown, has a
bigger “nose ” on Chinamen than any other public
man in Australia. That’s the Style.
Chinamen are working in one or two
printing-offices about Melbourne. The Mongolian
has succeeded in ousting the devil, but it’s a
change for the worse.
Here is a hint for dealing with the Chinesel
Boycott everybody who trades with them, as wel'
as boycotting the Chinese directly. People would
speedily cease tolerating the saffron evil. There
was in Milwaukee, recently, a labour dispute with
the brewers. As a result, the Central Labour
Union in New York sent requests to all labour
organisations in that city, in Brooklyn, and in
Jersey City, asking their members not to patronise
those places where the offending brewers’ beer was
sold. This plan always answers, for the wholesale
provider cannot afford to allow the transfer of his
custom elsewhere.
In a pamphlet on “The Chinese as
Colonists in the 19th Century, ” published by
Messrs. L. Kong Meng, Cheok Hong and Louis
Ah Mong, of Victoria, appears the following with
regard to the Chinese poll-tax :
“ We venture to affirm that neither Englishmen nor
Americans would dare to behave in this way towards
Russian immigrants. And yet tiiese are of the same race
as ourselves ; only, while our people reached a high stage
of civilisation many centuries ago, the nomadic Tartars of
the steppes have scarcely emerged from barbarism. Why
is the Asiatic Mongol treated so evilly, while the European
Mongol meets with courtesy and respect ? Is it because
the Czar of Russia can set a million of men in the field,
and has a powerful navy at his hand ; and because the
Emperor of China, our august master, is supposed to be
feeble and unwarlike ? If so, we must conclude that the
great Anglo-American and Anglo-Australian people are
cowards to the strong and tyrants to the weak.”
That was a sufficiently brutal exhibition of
larrikinism given by the students at Sydney Uni-
versity last week, on the occasion of the delivery of
a lecture on Volupiik by Dr. Max. How many
good rouseabouts, bullock-punchers, sheep-
shearers, and charcoal-burners are being educated
into briefless barristers and patientless doctors at
this high-toned institution, whose senior student
bears the name of (hats off) Windeyer ! Judge
Windeyer aforesaid was present in the chair, and
addressed a most dignified rebuke to the noisy
undergraduates, but, as he had not just then
power to enforce his views on their attention —
presumably he had left his little gallows at home
on the piano—his remonstrances didn’t amount to
much. But we don’t wonder at this. The
students had no doubt read all about Judge Win-
deyer’s own ideas of justice as exhibited at the
disgraceful Mount Rennie trial, and were by
no means disposed to regard His Honor as a
censor' morum or arbiter elegantiarum.
A lady now in St. Petersburg thus de-
scribes a Court reception at the Winter Palace :
“It was a bitter cold day when we drove in a
gorgeous sleigh to the Winter Palace—which was
like a fairy picture in the fading light without,
and illumined within with the brilliancy of
thousands of candles—to attend a Court reception.
The effect of the light on the snow and upon the
gay equipages of the numerous guests was indes-
cribable. We approached the empress through
three thousand officials. First through superb
state apartments, each blazing with a thousand
wax tapers and gorgeous with priceless hangings,
malachite pillars, works of art, and priceless
tropical flowers and ferns. The sight was worth the
journey from New York to Russia. The floors
were things of beauty, inlaid with ebony and
rosewood and ivory. At last we entered the
throne-room, and there, surrounded by a sea of
splendour, stood the empress, herself a moving mass
of diamonds. She was the most dazzling sight of
all. On her head was a crown once worn by the
great Elizabeth. It was the first time I had seen
a real crown on royalty, for the diamond tiara
worn by Victoria last summer at her reception was
not a crown except in name. But this one on the
imperial head was worthy to adorn the Empress of
all the Russias. Describe it? No. I only saw
millions of coloured rays and white sparks of light
emitted from it at every motion of the royal per-
son. The necklace was made from what was left
over of the crown. It reached from her neck to
her waist, and had rubies, sapphires, and diamonds
enough in it to have supplied a thousand ordinary
royal necklaces. The imperial orders worn on her
breast contained all the gems of the East. They
scintillated with light, and that is all I can say of
them. The stuff of her gown was emerald velvet,
with a train of white velvet embroidered with
enough gold to stock a mine, and bordered with
real gold balls. The front of the gown was
ornamented with ropes of linked pink coral, set in
diamonds and fastened at intervals. Never saw 1
human being thus arrayed. Solomon might have
put on more, but Ido not believe it. She was
enough of herself to take the breath out of a body,
but surrounded as'she was by grand duchesses,
each one ablaze with jewels worth a kingdom, she
was the most wonderful sight I ever witnessed in
my life. I did not know a mortal could look so
magnificent.”


Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEA T RE.
i-ole Lessees, Messrs, Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7,30 ; Carriages 10.45 s
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST.
Mb. Geo. RlgMold as Mephistopheles.
Miss Kate Bishop as Marguerite;
Pribes, ss;-, 3s„ 25., Is.
BOx Plan opeh Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
F. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Alhambra music ha l u
Georgb-street, Haymarkbt.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
We HAvfc to Record Another Great Triumph
iir fin's nF.w world of fun.
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
BEYOND ALL QUESTION the best ENTERTAINERS
this HEMISPHERE Cim PRODUCE RS NIGHTLY
proved with PACKED HOUSES.
WITH LAUGHING AUDIENCE^.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d,
Tit EAT R E ROYAL
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamsdn, Garner, and Musgrov,,.
Lesseb. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.20
~ Grand Revival of
HALS. PINAFORE! HALS, PINAFORE
111 Rehearsal- PRINCESS IDA.
f rices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s
R
OYAL STANDARD
THEATRE
FIRMLY ESTABLISHED SUCCESS
OF
FRANK SMITH’S BURLESQUE COMPANY
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, TO-NIGHT
and until further notice,
DON JUAN, JUNIOR
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUND
AND
garden palace.
Skating every Afternoon a&d EVe&ing.
i'Pe splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evening
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked fo
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c
Coming Events :
April 12—Great Skating Carnival (invitation onlj
April 14—-Horses v. Bicycles, Warner and Wiburc
April 21—Newington College Sports.
April 28 —Summer Hill Bicycle Sports.
May 24—Manchester Unity of Oddfellows Fete.
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
riRITERION T H E A T R E
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIC IULT.
TO NIGHT, THURSDAY, APRIL, 12
VICE-REGAL COMMAND NIGHT
GRAND COMEDY SEASON.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
UHVtEDY
SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA
SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA
SOPHIA
SOPHIA
Business Manager Mr. Jce Davis.
jgOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink,
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, Ono Shilling. Children Half-mice.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manage!'.
Amusements.
IN'
E W
OPERA
HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager F. E. Hiscocks.
Manager for Mr. Kennedy ... H. P. Lyons.
THIS and EVERY EVENING, at 8.
LAST NIGHTS!
Professor KENNEDY,
The World’s Greatest Mesmerist!
Professor KENNEDY,
The King Laughmaker of the World !
Professor KENNEDY,
The Eighth Wonder of the World !
Prices, 45,, 35., and Is. Box plan at Nicholson's,
Business Manager, L. T. LOHR.
A uctions
THURSDAY, 12th APRIL,
At Rooms. At 12 o’Olock,
IMPORTANT SALK
. of
• ,i™ A t city Property,
LITTLE COLLINS STREET, WEST.
MAGNIFICENT STONE WAREHOUSE
Let at £l5OO Per Annum:
aiid T: HAM have received intrilctione
7* to sell by public auction, bn Thursday,
at rooms, at 12 o’clobk,
dhat valuable and substantial freehold pro-
perty situate in Little Collin S-street west,
, , comprising - ,land having a frontage of
26 \?™H LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
WEST; by a depth of 195 ft: along a load
leading froin Little Collins-street, and
extehding at the Hat to a width of 02 ft.
oabk to another road of way, having the
advantage of an entrance through from
iiourke-street.
On the land is erected one of the most extensivr
substantial, convenient, and well-finished ware-
houses in the city (fotir strorig rooms), no expense
having been spared in the honstrufctioh and finish,
together with stables aiid oiit-offices at the rear.
. Ihe bhddiiig is so constructed that it coUld be
let to advantage as three separate stores.. There
are two first-rate hydraulic lifts, affording' great
facihties for the receipt and delivery of goods.
ihe premises are in the occupation of Messrs.
Rosenthal, Aronson and Co., under lease at a low
rent of £l5OO per annum, having aboUt four years
and six months to run.
The auctioneers would call the special attention
ol capitalists, investors, merchants, Manufacturers
and others to this Vety Valuable city property, ofc-
cupymg one of the Very best business positions in
battle Collins-street, between Elizabeth and Queen
streets, in the immediate neighbourhood of the
vr 1 , 8 ?? 685 ’ I ,lclTl ' ses °f Messrs. Henty and Co.,
M Ewan and Co., Alfred Shaw and Co., and other
leading mercantile firms.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD,
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railwa;
four n iles from Campbelltown Railway Sta
tion, and less than two miles from Menangli
Station. Divided by the Nepean River (t<
which it has nearly two miles frontage) fron
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AREA, 2063 ACRES.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., ir
consequence of his intending departure from th(
colony, to submit to auction, at tbeir rooms 13(
Pitt-strfebt, Sydnfey, on THURSDAY, i2fcli ApHl
at 11.30, the above
magnificent freehold estate.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney onlj
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly
improved properties ever submitted for sale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE’S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUSE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings
stables, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &c., &c. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&c. Elevation above sea level about 600 ft
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME
extending to the Blue Mountains.
' * It being impossible within the limits of ad-
r? to a Property like
a descriptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLEI is in cou- se of preparation.
The Estate will be submitted in one lot and
should the proprietor fail to obtain a price’ com-
mensurate with the value of the property it will
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 60 ACRH S to 400 ACRES EACH.
Intending buye-s may inspect at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALE.
Hotels
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE?,
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-strket.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms
will find all ir odern improvements, such as light’
J°fty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, largo public-’
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites not
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices verv
moderate. J
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Repute with every cohort and convenience of
modem times for the travelling public.
Business Announcements.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
£1 ORDERS.
1500 CASHED UP TO DATE.
ftig Please take Note— Orders are Packed Only id ‘
the Large Bottles.
U e h°ld receipts from the following - resident
of New South Wales and Queensland who have found l
Ssfe?*SJ'^ RGE BOTTLEs of UDOLPHO WOLFE’
SCHNAPPS since publication of last list
LIST No, 14,
NEW SOUTH WALES,
Sydney, Jas. E, Blair, Hotel, Kent and Margaret streets
Frederick Brtthwin, Forth and Clyde Hotel, Princes;
Street
Sweeiiey, Clifton Hotel, Botany-street, Waterloo
Mrs. Storey, 63 Elizabeth-street
o’vAV 1 " Sleeve, Mansfield-street, Glebe Point
lldbt, Watson, Grosvellor Hotel, Morehead-st,,Waterlo
Arthur Barlow, Grand View Hotel, Paddington
Ed. M‘Adam, Lyonsville, Five Dock
George Mudie, Gordon, Lane Cove
Henry Castle. Union and Pyrniont streets, Pvrmont
Spencer Barden, Cook’s River
A, Donald, William-street, North Shore
Wi Horaee Bent, 4 Church-street
T , BUrKrlk Newspaper Company, Pitt-street
Jabez Lean, Dick’s Hotel; Balinaiii
Chas. Grice, Wheelwright’s Arbis, Betershaiii
Martin Thomas, 205 George-sttefet
•John Lawrence, Summerhill
Patrick Fagan, Aberorornbie-street
■T. R, Spencer, 4 Cook’s Cottages, Gipps-street
Pyrmont
Ahnidale.—Williain Marchant
Miss . Nellie , Quehn, Refreshiiient ; rooni>
Railway Station
Mega. Mrs. Ellis, Bank Hotel
Botnbala:—Mrs. H. N. Rowley, Imperial ilotel
Bourke;—R; Green, Royal Hotel
Cassilis:—William Miller, Willy Waliy
Cobar:—E. Morris, Lime Kiln *
Denison Town.-—Wm. Lattiiner
Delegate.—Geo: W. Millington, Commercial Hotel
Goulburn.—Philip St: Croix, White Horse Hotel
, Richard. Magee, White Horse Hotel
Glen Innes:-pP. M‘Cormack, Tattersall’s Hotel
Gdodooga: Wnu M'Dougall, Telegraph Hotel
Grafton.—Win. Firth, Liojl Hotel
Gundagai.—Frank S. Chidgey, Club House Hotel
Hay.—A. Bartley, Caledonia Hotel
Hill End.—W. J. Whittaker, Royal Hotel
Morpeth.—Mrs. Butler, Hotelkeeper
Minmi:—Chas; Watson, Bricklayer
Manning River:—Thos. J. Renshaw; Cooper’nodk
Newcastle:—J. Petetsdn (found three at different periods'
Jas: Howells, Tighe’s Hotel
Nambuecra Heads.—Richard H. Bennett
Orange;—N. H. Lane, Grazier
Parkes.—Frank Cottingham, Commercial Hotel
Frank Cottingham, Commercial Hotel
Richmond.—Geo. Middleton
Reed’s Flat.—Sami. Croker, Taylor’s Creek
Randon Island.—Chas. Smith
South Woodburn.—Ed. Murray
Spring Vale.—Jas. G. Prosser '
Seven Hills.—Joseph Power
Tuena: —George Dickson, Produce Store;
dueenbl aNI ),
Brisbane.—Clara Adama, Longreach Hotel, Queen-street
W. M. Brown, Grosvenor Hotel, George-streel
Charters Towers.—Andrew Huxlev, Publican
Cooktown.—Janet M‘Gregor, Great Northern Hotel
Clermont.—Maggie Dolan, Caxton Hotel
Croydon.—J. Patterson, Halfway House, Croydon Road
Charlestown.—John Thornton
Hughenden.—Wm. Price and Co., Merchants
Herberton.—John Collins
Maryborough.—A. J. Harris, Terry-street
Matthew Hogan, Ballarat Hotel
Crown Hotel
Mount Morgan.—S. Heiser and Co., Queensland Hotel
Newellton.—Thomas Russell, Silver Valley Hotel
Nonnanton.—C. Devenish, Hotelkeeper
North Pine River.—H. Gottschalk, North Pine Hotel
Rockhampton.—Jas. Taylor, Trickett’s Hotel
Thargomindah.—Jas. Jeffers, Thargomindali Hotel
Warwick.—C. J. Isambert, Victoria Hotel
BRUITOI’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOtTR,
Can be obtained throughout New South Wale,-;,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ...
BRISBANE...
MELBOURNE
. 34 Pitt Street,
.Edward Street.
. Spencer Street.
r p HOMAS BUCKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERV, AND GENERAL AGENT,
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co,, Engineers, Lircoln.
„ „ Langland’s Foundry Co,, Melbourne, Vic.
Business Announcements.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“IMPERIAL.”
—1 Orocerp, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers,
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 Clarence-street.
3BD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
SHIAH PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pfe-eminent a&ong
the hosts of other brands as 8
THE BEST QUALITY BRTAIt PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand. 8
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & OOr,
231 OLARBNOE-STREET.
OBD. GrBD.
S a ! e^ arg l Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
A'HOLESALE ONLY * ” Bhipment3 oomin 8 ,orwa^
u
I
IS
HASt'fACTuAIRi
& igtSoft-TERS to
&
(A
ot
HATS CAPS Si
i =w
438 CEORC£ S r
3VDNEV m
UMBRELLAS
HE*CGVER£O.
gTU DY
ECONOMY
and
HaTe your Umbrella Frames re-
corered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Li»en>ool and Bathurst Street*.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly executed,
I) MILFB,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGEA t T,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
1 i 'EC I AL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin,
: i Tasmanian Edition, publishers FITZ
;' StiALl) BROS., Subscription (payable strictly
n advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
’•"•ter, or One Bound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
office, George-street, or from the runners in
: ho street...
A must ments .
CENTENARY ONTyERSaT^XHIfItIoN.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
(-) —-
NOW OPEN. 1000 INTERESTING EXHIBITS.
(.)
BROCK’S GRAND FIREWORKS!
Every Tuesday and Friday Evenings.
CARON’S FASHIOIN BLE CONCERTS !
Every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons.
Business A a uouncements.
flow
nd4?
Maea4
arOi
been known for nearly 100 years as the best i safest preserver, restorer and beautffler of
imfeuman hair; it is warranted free from am ' ,-r mineral ingredients, of which nio»t half
psatorers are composed and which ruin the health {vide Medicai papers), will keep freoh at.d
sweet In the hottest climates and has a delicate a v\ vragrant bouquet of roses: it preventn hair
Sailing off or turning grew, strengthens weak i r eradicates scurf ordandriff, and renders the
hair 8«ft, silky, curly and glossy; it also sti -nnl s the growth of whiskers and monstarhesj
It is especially recommended for children as form.I ."if the basis of a beautiful head of haii, and
can also be had in a
iih , GOLDEN OLOUR,
wwcn, after great time and tronble, has been > n i-iaHy prepared for the Die of golden -haired
cnlMrnit and fair or grey-haired adults. Sizes S» - . Ti.; family bottle*, equal to foot small,
flue. ed.: and double that, size, 21a,
ROWLANDS’ KALY00R
“b® faoc, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions,
complexion.
, ROWLANDS’ 000NT0 whites* the teeth, prevents aiid arrests decay,
S i? T???J. he _f, a r ls ’ a ° d P™ 8 * delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
!imihir't»”« Hatton itarde-. , ■ *„d avoid spurioni imitations unde’
healing and refreshing preparation for
sunburn, eczema, redness and rongb ness
and produces a beautiful and delicate
Wholesale and Re'jail^Agenta—Elliotjj B m„ and H. Peosskh & Go,, Sydney,
J. \ . Mulligan, the Palmer goldfield pros
pector, is now one of the Mount Moore syndicate, who
have taken up a large gold-bearing property near
Table Top, Croydon, N.Q. They have ten stamps
on the ground and good results are expected
shortly. There is some talk of Mulligan standing
as the local M.L.A. at the general election.
Six converted Chows were roped into
Sunday-school lately in a Victorian mining town-
ship, and sat solemnly in a row with their pig-
tails hitched round their heads listening to the
wonderful statements of the Eulopean preachee
man. He exerted himself considerably to ascer-
tain the depth of their knowledge, and in the
course of the proceedings inquired if they had
heard of the Acts of the Apostles. They had.
Six converted Chows raised up their voices as one
ldolator and replied “ Axee allee samee tommy -
hawk, choppen down tlee, axee, axee, me savee.”


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... ... ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under 12 months.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward’.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years
£6 „ n 12 months I
£5 „ n 6 months |
£4 ,i ii 3 months J
With Cash Bonus if renewed
at the rate of £1 per cent per
annum, or withdrawable on
notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company eolicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices: b ustralasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, Goorge-street, Sydney.
To Tokconiols ad Storekeepers,
Read this announcement. It largely affeots your
interests.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS INI) IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 Georoe Street, Sydney.
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and filter*
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery. Perfumery, &o.
CRAIG AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
6
'(&MY
A/AVM
U Mi
i\m
ij|
hnr 'Vi
r: 4' 1
mi
i i"nj,
| !j:uji)
'!! ijrpl
'■'l'ihril
J
lit *i' i
1 ,i ill
1 ljv|l ill
m
i lit!/
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING,
Is still the most popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRiIG AND AITKEN.
t'INE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, Us., Its.,
p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBICCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE ( Yirerican), finely flavored,
best value in the market. }lb. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in |lb. packet?. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREV A S, exquisitely flavoured,
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality.
CRAIG and A I T K E N.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash promptly attended to.
Pay Particular attention to the Address :
CRAIG and AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 George-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY Tobacco
and Cigarettes. Price List on application.
Merited Pi alee.
The universal praise bestowed upon dr. bell’s
bitters as an invaluable remedy for all disorders
of the kidneys, liver and bowels, is well merited.
Its virtues are universally known, and its cures
are reported on all sides. Many obstinate cases
have succumbed to it after they had been given
up by the doctors, and a thorough treatment will
never fail to cure. Sold by all druggists.
If the Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula, and
General Debility, will try Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod
Liver Oil with Hypophospiiites, they will find immediate
relief and a permanent benefit. The Medical Profession
in the various countries of the'world, universally declare
it a remedy of the greatest value ; and as it is very
palatable, it can be readily taken by the most sensitive
stomach, and will never fail to give relief and comfort to
the sufferer. Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.*
Are you suffering from liver disorder, pains in the side
or under the shoulder blades, foul tongue, or biliousness ?
Are you suffering from nervous weakness and feel unfit
for your daily duties? If so go. to your chemist for
Dunstone’s Compound Essence of Dandelion and Liver
Pills, and you will get instant .relief and a speedy and
permanent‘cure. Head testimonials wrapped with each
bottle, of wonderful cures effected by this medicine.
Dunstone’s Dandelion, ss. per bottle ; Liver Pills, Is. per
box, of all Druggists. Be certain to ask for Dunstonb s.
Wholesale agents : Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
PROFITABLE PATIENTS.
The most wonderful and marvellous success ip cases
where persons are sick or wasting away from a condition
of miserableness, that no one knows what ails them
(profitable patients for doctors), is obtained by the use of
Dr Soule’s American Hop Bitters. They begin to cure
from the first dose, and keep it up until perfect health and
strength is restored. Whoever is afflicted in this way
need not suffer, when they can get Dr, Soule's American
Hop Bitters. “ Cincinnati Star.”
TRUTH AND HONOUR.
Query :—What is the best family medicine in the world
to regulate the bowls, purify the blood, remove costive-
ness, and biliousness, aid digestion and tone up the whole
system ? Truth an d onour compels us to answer Dr. Soule's
American Hop Bitters, being pure, perfect and harmless.
See another column. —“ Toledo Blade.”
The Happiness op Millions.— On what does the hap-
piness of populations or individuals depend? On that
inestimable blessing—Health. Ought it not then to be the
study of every Colonist to ascertain foi himself the best
means by which this priceless boon, once attained, can be
for ever preserved ? The answer must be in the affirma-
tive. A large number of Colonists in New Zealand are
aware that there is a medicine which not only wards off
Disease, but rapidly cures all maladies that occur there,
and actually prolongs life. This invaluable medicine is
Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne, which cures
and arrests, in their very earliest stages, all the Diseases
that happen, not only in New Zealand, but in all the Aus-
tralian Colonies.—Sold everywhere throughout the
Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject
substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an Ele-
phant.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown-. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Their Kb me is Lesion
Legions of people have had their lives made
miserable by piles. This painful difficulty is often
induced and always aggravated by constipation.
Dr. bell’s bitters is the great remedy for all
affections of this kind. It ac sas a gentle cath-
artic, promotes a healthy sction of t he bowels, and
soothes and heals the inflamed surfaces. It has
cured hundreds of cases whe e all other jemedie3
and applications hay e fall. d. Sold by all druggists.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ts»
EXECUTE X3iT3DE3iTTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE*
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
before taking.
(FROM LIFE.)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine."—Proverb* 17-e, 22-t>
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZED"IRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food. It has no equal. It fe'Ms the Bran, Blood,
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, R< stores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effect upon the
whole system, removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d. From all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the manufacturer, W. F. GAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitations. Take no Substitute.
AFTER TAKING.
(from i.ife.)
Business Announcements.
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or flirt e times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quintit y for chi d'tn.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two cr three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quamii yof wMer. For
young people about half the quan ity twica a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
A BOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottls of j our
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,- I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a diffc ent
man. I can, therefore, with '.ruthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them. —
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, Avgust 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affect 1 ons of the
lit er, indiges ion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, hut all w.thout
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROWS DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depres ed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been any take advantage of them.
“I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
WSL
ESragftSliiS
Bow’s Steane'a Wiae
Is ft safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
child en, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to te followed b’ greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of epirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steanc-'a Wine
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from gene al debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully exam'nei a bot le of Row’s
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I con ider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly f ee f/om any injurious
chemicals, too often u-ed in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, Analyst.
“Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s Steane’s wine
has ako weaned many peri on ■) from the exc ssive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant'
without its i toxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
p&ss®d»
TRY THEM.
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROWS STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU'LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROWS ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
13, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
%
The other day Premier Parkes visited
Grenfell public school, and proceeded to place his
autograph in the visitors’ book. Two local mag-
nates, anxious to have their signatures alongside
Sir ’Enery’s, made a rush with the object of
carrying out their intention, when the Hairy
Bismarck drove them back with a magnificent
wave of his hand, exclaiming, “ Your, membah
hafter me.' ”
Here is a good American story. Ella
Wheeler, the poetess, met two young priests, who
were delighted with her conversation. One day
they remarked, in a somewhat adroit fashion, that
they wondered such a charming woman should not
become a Catholic. Would she not give them an
idea of her views? Replied she, stoutly : “I
wonder two such fine-looking young men as yon
are don’t marry !”
A BASHFUL PROPOSAL
MR. DACEY: “MARY ANN.”
MISS FLYNN: “PFWHAT IS IT, CONN-DACEY?”
MR DACEY: “DOAN’ YE T’INK FATHER McGRATH UD BE GETTIN LONESOME
WID TH’ SLATHERS O’ FUNERALS HE’S BEEN HAVIN’ AT TH’
CHOORCH?”— Puck.


Business Announcements.
OUK
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
THE ONLY
MUSICAL I9STEUMEVT
B
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
EG- to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favors,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
Musical Instruments
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments for our new premises, and can
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGGQROEONS
is something marvellous.
o
PATENT BRASS NOTED ACCORDEONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/
50/-, &c.
PATENT STEEL NOTED ACCORDEONS,
30/ . 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 10/-, 49/, 45/-, and 50/
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACCORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/ , 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/
PATENT GERM vN SILVER AOCOFDUONE
30/-, 32/6., 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/ , up to £4
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 33 L
~ ~ steel notes 50/.’
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key, complete
for 21/-.
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen In Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 3 5/, 20/ , 30/-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE;—
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ i 10/-.
YIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zamplnani's at 6d , 9d., and 1/-, each.
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewington's at 6d, 9d., and 1/-, each.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
famished throughout,
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIHONSEM,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A Voice from lie People,
THE GREATEST CURATIVE SUCCESS OF
THE AGE.
~VT O medicine introduced to the public has ever
met with the success accorded to bell’s
bitters. It stands to-day the best known cura-
tive article in the world. Its marvellous renown
is not duetto the advertising it has received. It
is famous by reason of its inherent virtues. It
does all that is claimed for it. It is the most
powerful, speedy and effective agent known for
the building up of debilitated systems and general
family medicine.
Ophir, N.S.W., Dec. 9th, 1886.
Boll's Bitters Manufacturing Co.—Gentlemen
I have been a sufferer for seventeen years from
the effect of a cold I contracted while at work
under ground. I have tried almost everything, I
have also been to several doctors and have not re-
ceived any benefit, at times I am able to work for
a few weeks then get bad and for as many months
am confined to the house. I got a bottle of your
Bitters last week from Orange, and took it within
a week, for every time the cough was trouble-
some I took a little, and I am glad to s<y I am
greatly improved, for I am able (o do a little
mining since.
Ed. McConnell.
Ophir Diggings, via. Orange, N.S.W.
Bell’s Bitters has been before the public but
a few months, yet the remarkable success which has
attended its use in the many hospitals and asylums
where it has been tested, has resulted in its being
placed on the list of regular supplies needed for
the daily use of the institution.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
ASKNTB FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES AND OUEENSLAND.
Woman’s uflfering and Felief.
Those languid, tiresome sensations, causing you.
to feel scarcely a,ble to be on your feet; that con-
stant drain tint is taking from your system all its
former elasticity ; driving the bloom from your
cheeks; that continual strain upon your vital
forces, rendering you irritable and fretful, can
easily be removed by the use of that marvellous
remedy, Dr Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
Irregularities and obstructions of your system are
relieved at once while the special causes of
periodical pain are permanently removed. None
receive so much benefit, and none are so pro-
foundly grateful, and show such an interest in
recommending Hop Bitters as women.
A Postal Card fctojy.
I was affected with kidney and urinarv
Trouble —
“ For twelve years ! ”
After trying all the doctors and patent medi-
cines I could hear of, I used two bottles of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters ;
lam perfectly cared. I keep it
“All the time” respectfully, B. F. Booth,
Saulsbury, Tenn.— May 3, 1885.
Bradford, Pa., May 8, 1885.
It has cured me of several diseases, such as nervousness
sickness of the stomach, monthly troubles, &c. I have
not seen a sick day in a year since I took Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters. All my neighbors use them.
Mrs. Fannie Green.
$3,000 Lost.
“ A tour to Europe that cost me $B,OOO, did me less
good than one bottle of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters-
they also cured my wife of fifteen years’ nervous weak-
ness, sleeplessness and dyspepsia.”
R. M., Auburn, N.Y.
So., Bloominovilee, 0., May 1, 'B6.
Sirs—l have been suffering ten years, and I tried your
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters, and it did me more
good than all the doctors.
Miss S. S. Boone.
Baby Saved.
We are so thankful to see that our nursing baby was
permanently cured of a dangerous and protracted con-
stipation and irregularity of the bowels by the use of Dr
Soule’s American Hop Bitters by its mother, which at the
same time restored her to perfect health and strength.
—The Parents, Rochester, N.Y,
it®" None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown
in the bottles. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
E2©Q/u.isites.
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES' BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
Business Announcements.
Jjjf' EWT 0 N AN D LAM B.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETM A KERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CH ! IRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself V any position, f om
sitting to leclining and ' ice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is sia pic yet ingenious in its
ci ns';raction ; works automat'ealiy. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous posi ions
that can be obtained insta tly, and with but lit’le
effort. It fits pe oj'ly every i art of the body,
and gives the occujant entire rest. We can now
supply portable s spension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. F.ice, wi h Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in cmva«, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D
II AW ING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLESinaIIW r oods. Immense
va iety of des gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Eab oidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDEST AL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
ous size fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-hol s, Slid-
i >g Trays, Stationery Draw-
e s, revolvin port hie triple
I ikstand. Receptacles for
Staa ps, an - ! Ruler and Pen
Racks. Out idc Drawers d vid d into tornp rt-
f’ ents by movabl > pa' tit ons to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish npr he space when eqoired. Locks
automatically. One of the mo t u eful, commo-
d’o'us, and * erfectly planned ai tide.' for the Lib a-y
or Office jet pro uce dm raMy suite! to the
neces ities of profe tional and business men.
□a
Driving room cabi-
nets.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
LARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the
Most Celebrated Makers.
A USTRTANBENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Libra r y or Bed-
room?, New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men,
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb,
T> EDS TEA DS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
JJ'EWTON AND L~Aliir
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
An understanding has been arrived at that
as soon as a Supreme Court judgeship can be
found for Attorney-General Simpson (and this
will probably be done, and soon, by the creation
of an additional judgeship) Mr. “Dick” O’Con-
nor is to be made N.S.W. Attorney-General.
What are the reasons? You’ll hear them all—
they are simply beautiful—by-and-bye.
It’s a singular thing that the Queensland
miners are mostly Freetraders, and yet they’ve all
to win by Protection. The truth is that the
majority _of them are non-resident and take no
interest in the matter anyway, but swallow th#
first political creed that comes along. They drop
to Protection in labour quickly enough, though.
No Chinkies for them. Why not drop to Protec-
tion in the products of labour also ?
Speaking at Brisbane, Premier Griffith
“ deprecated being styled either a Freetrader or a
Protectionist, saying that he did not understand
the terms. He was in favour of the encourage-
ment of local industries according to the exigencies
of the State and the necessities of the general
policy.” Griffith is,right this time. There is at
present no Freetrade country in the world, and the
only possible Freetrade is Georgian Freetrade, in
which all the revenue would come from nationalised
land. But are Premier Parkes and the rest of
the N.S.W. land-syndicate “ Freetraders” avowed
Land-nationalisers ?
A Victorian paper, urging the exclusion of
the Chinese from Australia says: “No civilised
State has ever surrendered the right to exclude
foreigners from its territory. After the French
revolution of 1848 the English workmen on the
French railways were expelled from France in the
interests of the native labourers. Quite lately
Russian Poles were expelled from Germany, and
German Poles from Russia. China herself recog-
nises the right to exclude foreigners where their
admission has not been provided for by treaty.
America has repeatedly returned to the place from
whence they came shiploads of pauper emigrants
from Ireland.”
Three or four “Labour” candidates are
to the fore in Queensland for the forthcoming
elections.
The Queen as represented by her statue in
Sydney, has her back to the churoh, and faces the
Insolvency Court.
The Sydney E. News has a heading, “ An*
nanias Again !” Alfred thinks that Ananias has
two “nV’ together, the same as Bennett.
London has 454 newspapers ; the pro
vinces 4273: Wales, 82; Scotland, 189; Ireland,
lo 8; the Isles 21. Total, 2177. In 1846, there
were m the whole of the United Kingdom only
551 journals.
George Campbell, M.L.C., one of the re-
cent nominees to the N.S.W. Upper House, is the
man who ousted poor innocent Ezekiel A. Baker,
when the latter tried to whitewash his character
with the electors of Carcoar in 1881, after being
wiped off the rolls of the Assembly for alleged
complicity in the Milburn Creek swindle. Mr.
Campbell is a Tory of the old squatting School;
Ins rather “swell’ bearing and well-lined purse
evidently secured him his position as one of the
law-makers of New South Wales. He has no
ability as a politician, and during his two years’
sojourn in the House he made but one speech, last-
ing about 10 minutes. He spent the fortnight
following the delivery of this speech in visiting the
various centres of population in his electorate,
entertaining the “ free and independent” with a
recapitulation of his oratorical effort, and stating
that he had been complimented by the leading
lights of the Assembly on the brilliant speech and
unanswerable arguments put forth by him. This
splendid harangue was achieved in support of the
Murrumburrah-Blayney railway, which passed
through Mr. Campbell’a Jerula property, consider-
ably enhancing the value thereof. This is a fair
sample of the men who are governing Sunny New
South Wales.


‘Australia’s?” Monster Consultations. The
Autumn Handicap, run at Canterbury April 28th,
1888. 2000 subs., each 10s. First horse, £400;
second, £200; third, £100; starters £lOO, non-
starters £lOO, divided amongst them. Fifty cash
Prizes of £2 each. The Queen’s Birthday Cup,
May 24tli, 1888. First horse, £1500; second,
£600; third, £300; starters £3OO, non-starters
£3oo,’divided amongst them. Subscribers are re-
quested to apply early, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes for reply and result. Address,
“ Australia,” care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria
Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office, George-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
Dr Alfred Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Great
Britain and by the Medical Board of N.S. Wales. -Specialist
in diseases of the kidneys, bladder, skin, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases
a special study through life, and he has had the very
great practical advantages of a large (private as well as
hospital practice not only in Great Britain and America,
but the Continent of Europe. Consultations either per-
sonally ot by letter. Eldon House Phil ip-street, near
King-street. Sydney.*
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Walter Wood ”: No man who drops his
“ h’s” should be accepted as a member of the Australian
Republican party. In Australia such people are always
aristocrats “ W.A.” : Parramatta has been behind the
time ever since it was founded... “ Zeph ” : “ Who are the
People ?” good, but held 0ver....“ J.S.” : But do the
shareholders know that the director named is overdraw-
ing his account at their “bank?” “ Walter Soares” :
You will find that, owing to the proximity of
poverty-stricken Adelaide, wages on the Barrier are not
So high as, taking all its discomforts into consideration,
they ought to be, “ IbA.P.” : Will consider
“A.A.”: Yes, nothing dies but something mourns....
“0.H.”: They stole our heading, they steal our paper,
they steal our paragraphs.... “E. Arrowsm'ith ”: So far
fts prohibitive measures can help on the work, the people
Of the United States are likely to be more sober than the
English', for irt the States the Government does not rely
for its chief source Of iriconfe on the Excise duties on
liquor, as does the Chancellor of the British Exchequer....
“ W.M.J.” (Perth, W.A.): Thanks....“ S.W.” (Walwa):
As it is not of topical interest, we must holdover
11 R.T.M.” (Vic.): Much obliged. He is very we 11....
“S.'Ev” (Gympie): Nevertheless the fact remains that it
'ifcas Sir Sam'uel Hookey Walker Griffith, K.C.M.G., who
to-day p'oses as a Chinky Prohibitionist, because he sees
the country will have it, who ruined the Palmer goldfield
years ago by refusing to poll-tax the lepers. This is a
very awkward fact, but it’s a fact for all that....
“Sidney Simpson”: Many thanks for your offer
“ A.H.8.”: Some 6f your mlatter is g00d....“ Work-
man’s Wife ”: Many thanks. Will publish—next week,
probably “E.A.”: The German Emperor is 56....
" W.S.”: We cannot tell you whether he has “entirely
Slid absolutely ” severed his connection with the Anstra-
liaii Earikirig Co.’s usury-shop. Better enquire of some of
the blergyfrien who are shareholders.... “ O.J ”: Thanks.
....“ U.A.U.”: Good miatter “ S.S.” : No, for accord*
ng to English law the broad-arrow mark on prison dres
cannot legally be shown oh dhf Stagfe.“ John Peat”:
Please call “Molong”: Thanks “ Moorabirida ” :
Next week, probably “Radical Sceptic”: Thanks,
brit the rriissing-link idea has been done to death
“Austral”: Held over “ R.C.G.”: There is a joke in
it, but, like yourself, we don’t see exactly where
‘ Wascoe”: The BuM,ETiN"doesn’t profess to be a “ comic ”
paper, nor does it claim to be a “society” paper. The
Bulletin’s success has come from what joxx are pleased
to term its “ savage brutality ” —in other words, its
piairi gp&tking “Nardoo”: Parkes, in bis late
Speeche'S; lhstrkedly omitted to say anything about
an inideperiderit Australia...... “ W.A,” : As “ Uncle ”
Abigail wouldn’t pay the £25 lie owed Tilt Bulletin,
what guarantee can Pasteur have that Untie Abigail will
pay him the £25,000 rabbit-extermination prefnitiiri ?,;..
“ Bachelor Bob ” : Good. Please write again to Sappho
Smith, Bulletin Office “R.J.T./ (Warran): If we were
“ going to start a tank to remove 3000 or 4000 yards with
3to 1 batter ”- but, on second thoughts, you don’t say
where you are going to start the tank to. We can’t ad-
vise you about a tank with that amount of batter unless
you give more particulars.... “Walter More ”: To know
what is the true national spirit of Australia, talk to the
educated miner or bushman. The people of Sydney and
Melbourne are more or less cockneyfied—vou might
almost as well live in Brummagem as at Potts Point. All
cities are pretty well the same.W.A.”: A’on say,
“ all the prize-fighters and criminals are Irish.” So, for
the matter of that, are all the policemen, and nearly all
the judges. You can prove anything by figures....
“ Pitt-street ” : You can’t estimate a man’s value by his
salary. For instance, Bismarck’s official salary is £2OOO less
than Carington’s.. “E.D.G.”(MeIb.): Received. Willread..
“ Wagga”: The invention, so to speak, of the word Aus-
tralia has been universally credited to Matthew Flinders,
Who published an account of his voyage to Terra Aus-
Gftlisj in 1814. But he was anticipated by the geographer
Halrvmple; Who, in his Collection of “ Voyages to the
South Pacific Ocean,” published in 1770, applied the word
“ AtistMia-” td that portiofj Of the globe which he sup-
posed to be occupied by the’ then unknown Continent.
There is some reason to believe that Dalrymple took tiie
idea from the French geographer, Charles Dos Brosses,
whose work (“ Histoire des Navigations atfx Terres Aus-
trales,” published in 1756), he quotes in connectioji with
it. Be Brosses had applied the term “Australasia to
the countries of the South Pacific. The whole question of
the origin of the terms “Australia” and “ Australasia
will he fully dealt with by Mr. G. B. Barton in-his forth-
coming official history of N.S.W., which will be published
in parts, each dealing with the “ reign ” of one Governor...
“ Bachelor ” (Clunes): It isn’t what women wear, it’s what
they arc.... “ W.G.A.” (Gundagai): Undoubtedly it had,
otherwise your faith must always have had a very uncer-
tain base....“ A. Cole” (Port Eliot, S.A.): Many thanks
for vour letter. May perhaps use “ Honi ” (Silverton) :
You could write very interestingly if you would but be
a trifle less 10ca1...." Anti-Flogging’ : Notwithstanding
the fact that such education as prisoners receive is gra-
tuitous, you certainly cannot describe it as “free ” educa-
tion “ Subscriber ” (Patrick’s Plains): Thanks for letter
“Austral”: Held over “E.J.8.”: In “After
Years,” we are compelled to observe, there is more passion
than rhvthm “ J.A.A.” (Dunolly): Thanks for letter
in re A.N.A “A.L.”: The electors of Queensland can
surely never forgive the man who refused to allow
a meeting to he held in a public reserve to pro-
test against the unfair manner in which the “Hope-
ful ” prisoners had been tried and convicted.....
“John Doherty”: Will give serious attention
“ Cockney ” : Will make room for one of your letters..
« Gum Leaf ” : Received your second voluminous contri-
bution ....“ A. Major” (Carlton, Vic.): The world’s not
vet ripe for a discussion on water-melons—“ Lord Pro-
tector ” : There are stanzas in the “ Miser ” that refuse to
harmonise with their fellow-stanzas, and the refusal
seems absolute... “ P.8.G.” : It won’t do. When you have
to write a chapter to explain those darkly incompre-
hensible lines—
“ How many a form on life’s dark storm
Wastes, but to give you joke.”
we must say that we fail to see the joke. You say that
vou are.“ aware that the poetry is weak m parts. (so
‘are we .. “ Grip ” : Thanks.... “ Oyster Johnnie : Will
henzine the Zolaesque details and print.... “ Austral :
Well it is simply the result of superior shrewdness on
the part of the governing classes. Constantine had the
sense to secure empire in the name of Christ. The same
dodge is being enacted every day. Hence, too, the in-
fallibility of the Church, divine right of king's, arid other
antique and hoary-headed fictions “ W.J.C . : (Table
Top, Croydon, Q.) : Many thanks for your very interest
ing letter.
The Keferee
Peter Jackson, the black pugilist, goes to
America shortly in quest of fresli fields to con-
quer. There is not a man in Australia able to
stand before the giant, who, sooner than longer
waste his fragrance on the desert air of Australia,
will work his passage over. Peter is as good a
stoker as he is a fighter, and, funds or no funds,
he could not do better than work his way, in
place of suffering several weeks of good living and
idleness,
* * *
The placing of Dobson in the position of
stroke of the N.S.W. Intercolonial Eight has, in
the opinion of most of the Sydney rowing men,
thrown away whatever chance the crew might
have had behind “Charley” Bros. Dobson’s
form or performances do not entitle him to the
stroke’s seat, and Mr. P. J. Clark will have all his
work cut out to bring his crew to the scratch in
anything like intercolonial form. And yet the
Melbourne people say that a fairly strong N.S.W.
crew will have an easy job in the intercolonial
boat race t How is it that every year neither
colony believes in its men ?
* * *
The American wonder and slaughterer—
of old men —Burke, is about to tackle poor old
MISFORTUNES NEVER COME SINGLY.
BROWN (to Robinson . who is reading a telegram with a look of anguish on his face): “WHAT'S THE MATTER,
OLE FELLOW? SOMEBODY DEAD?” SOMEBODY ALIVE! TWLNS!”
ROBINSON (crushing telegram with both hands) : “NO: SOMEBODY ALIVE! TWLNS!”
Peter Newton, whose forehead now extends to
the nape of his neck. It is really time for the
Cruelty to Animals people to step m and insist
upon Burke leaving the country unless he musters
up courage enough to meet one of our young men,
who are all eager to be slaughtered. Burke came to
us with the reputation of a newspaper-fighter, and
nobly has he upheld it, in face of taunts which
would have been sufficient to goad an Australian
fighter on to punching a 20-foot alligator on an
alluvial flat.
* * *
The Marylebone Club Committee have de-
cided not to alter the leg-before-wicket rule.
• * *
All the English newspapers regard the
last race between Bubear and Wallace Ross as an
absolute and shameless swindle, and as the last
nail in the coffin of British professional aquatics.
Bubear didn’t row a yard.
• * *
The decision of the N.S.W. Cyclists’
Union to institute an inquiry into the running of
one of its members affords a guarantee that
genuine amateurism will boom in the coming
.season.
* * *
It lias been remarked that Clifford, in
his last race with Kemp, was robust when he
started and row-bust before he finished.
t » *
Cranbrook’s claim to be the equine
Goliath of Australia is disputed by Mr. Dines, of
Singleton, who owns a four-year-old hackney
stallion by Goldsborough from an Emsdale mare
which stands 17 hands 3in., or 2fin. taller than the
Chester colt. In girth the Singleton horse is 6ft.
Bin., or Sin. more than Cranbrook, and he beats
hiv i round the cannon-bone also, being 7-Mn,
* * *
One of the victorious Cambridge crew, in
the recent boat-race against Oxford, was a Bris-
bane Grammar School boy.
# * •
Rockhampton people want Lord Caring-
ton to go up and see Hanlan and Jumbo Trickett
push planks quickly up a river. This may be love
for Mr. Charles Robert Smith—it may also be a
desire to make an “intercolonial thing of a
second-class affair of a very local character.
# * *
Four hundred and sixty-three women of
Wanganui (N.Z.) have petitioned the Borough
Council against glove-fights, with the result that
such things are to be prohibited. Pour hundred
and sixty-three men of Wanganui are now getting
up a petition against flat-iron-firing and rolling-
pin-exercise, and if this reform
comes off, Wanganui will soon be as quiet as the
City of the Seven Sleepers.
* * *
Although the field for the Sydney Cup
this year was the smallest that ever faced the flag,
still the time it was run in, 3min. 32|sec., is the
fastest on record ; and the weight carried by Aus-
tralian Peer, Bst. 61b., is the heaviest ever carried
by a winning 3-year-old in that race. The Barb s
weight, lOst. 81b., was the heaviest, and Cunna-
mulla’s, fist., the lightest.
. * *
Spofforth’s song to-day is “Putnot your
faith in politicians.” Speaking of his troubles he
says:—
“Twice have I given up situations to go home, and I
cannot afford to repeat it. When I was in the N.S.W.
Bank 45 members of Parliament assured me that if I went
to England I would get a good position in the Govern-
ment service when I returned, and I got letters from
every one of them to that effect, and I did what they
wanted. When we came back they told me to make
application for a position that was then vacant, and they
would see that I got it, but it was given to someone else.
Now, you see, I am here.”
“Spoff.” is now manager of the Simpson's-road
branch of the National Bank, Melbourne.
. * •
English critics speak favourably of Joe
Scott’s walking powers, but point out that the
local men are not used to a boarded track, oil
which the Australian shows his best form. There
is something in the excuse. When wobbler Wat-
son first came to England be was matched to
walk Perkins 50 miles. The Britisher elected to
put in his distance on boards while the Wobbler
chose a tan track, After Perkins had covered
about 30 miles, his feet were in such a fearful
state that they had to cut his shoes off. Since
lien the “ home ” pedestrians have fought shy of
boards, and Scott is accordingly described as a
“specialist” by such a reliable authority as the
Referee.
* * *
The Victorian Intercolonial Eight have
had the gilt rubbed off their victory over the
Williamstown crew. Four of the latter, there is
reason to believe, were stiffened before the race.
• *
Jackson will never persuade Burke to
fight—no, not even if he talks until he is black m
the face.
* * *
The Ashfield Recreation Grounds and
Garden Palace radiates in a gala night on 12th
inst. (to-night), when an alleged carnival maugu-
rates the skating season and overflows its banks.
* *
On Saturday morning last the Australian
half-caste, Bush, who jumped 23ft. 4in. (record)
at Botany a short time ago, died of consumption
in Narandera (N.S.W.) Hospital.
Won’t wash—the Chinaman.
The fat of the land—Ah Fat.
The Chows were bent on making for the
Australian ruby-mines, but it has been decided
that they lie not allowed topaz.
“ Inattention is often the highest form of
civility ” is an old Chinese maxim. It was
evidently designed to facilitate Hoo-ki-lah m get-
ing away with the hens.
A Chow named Way Lay has been caught
in the act of robbing sluice-boxes at Allandale
(Vic.). He was waylaid, and now sluices every
morning at Government expense.
“ Copper,” says an English print, “ con-
tinues to usurp the place of every other metal for
which it can possibly be substituted. In Aus-
tralia it has not yet usurped the place of brass.
Colour is lent to the supposition that
Chinamen are committing burglaries in Melbourne
by the fact tliat someone recently broke into a
Swanston-street grocery and stole a bucketful ot
ancient eggs.
There is a Chinese tea -pedlar named Hi
Hawk in South Melbourne. His neighbours keep
their poultry in burglar-proof safes.
The Californian traffic in Chinese women
has increased, notwithstanding the severity of the
American law. However, it is believed that the
punishment of 10 years’ imprisonment and a fine
of £4OO inflicted at ’Frisco lately on one of the
slave-dealers, will have a wholesome effect.
“Lord Carington,” says the Manchester
Guardian, writes to England that the Republican
feeling in Australia “is growing by leaps and
bounds, and that it will tax all the resources of
our party to combat it.” “ Our party !”
The E. News says that it must have been
humiliating for Mr. Purves to have to take the
chair at his own meeting, and remarks that he re
ceived a lot of letters from various Australian
natives in high positions in New South Wales,
excusing their non-attendance. This reflects the
greatest credit on the Purves and brands the ex-
cusatory Australian natives, who were afraid of
placing themselves in a posit ion from which it
might be inferred by the ignorant that they ap-
proved of the meeting, as arrant - cowards whose
sympathy with any cause would only weaken, and
whose active support would only damn it.
A Sydney print alludes to David Gaunson
as “ the M'Elhone of Victoria.” This means that
Gaunson is direct of speech and strong in invec-
tive. That he is straight and fearless. He may
certainly have M'Elhone’s disdain of consequences
but M'Elhone is certainly not the Gaunson of
New South Wales. Australia owes David Gaun
son a genuine debt of gratitude for the bold and
unflinching manner in which he denounced the
monstrous administration of “justice” in New
South Wales in connection with the Mount Rennie
trial. Public spirit in New South Wales is currish,
and Australia will politically chew up the present
controllers of that colony. As no prominent man
in N.S.W. could be found to take the chair at the
Australian Natives’ Association meeting the other
night, so no man could be found to denounce a
hideous maladministration of justice. It had to
be done in each instance by a stranger.
The British navy
have long gone consider-
ably to the devil when
officers are allowed to
take their wives and lady
friends for trips in men-
o’-war. His nibs the
admiral brought three
ladies over in the Nelson
from New Zealand to
Sydney this trip.
We hear of the death,
in North Borneo, of John
Amos, who was a miner
in the strict sense of the
term, he having delved
in Alaska, British Col-
umbia, California, Mexi-
co, Paraguay, Brazil, and
South Africa. He lately
visited the Etheridge
(N.Q.) and the K imberley
(W. A.) goldfields. Then
lie left for Borneo, where
he has given up search-
ing for nuggets and has
gone aloft to prospect
around the Golden Gates.
R.I.P.
The members of the
Century Club, together
with a few personal
friends, gave a farewell
dinner to Ernest Wun-
derlich, who left by the
German steamer for
Europe, the other day,
Messrs. Poussard and
Allpress and E. Wun-
derlich performed a selec-
tion from Wagner and
Gounod, andM. Poussard
an original composition
which he designated a
Plaint. Mr. Wunderlich
is a member of the cele-
brated Alpine C 1 üb,
whose eon aim in life is to
cling to a slippery ledge
of the Matterhorn and
get a bad attack of rheu-
matism from nocturnal
exposure in elevated lati-
tudes.
A Melbourne doctor confidently asserts
that no case of hydrophobia has ever transpired in
Australia. Hydrophobia means dread of water.
What’s the matter with the Chinamen, then ?
Mr. W. F. Caunt, of Camperdown, Syd-
ney, is the owner of a preparation known as
“ Caunt’s phosphorised iron quinine tonic,” which
is announced as a sovereign remedy for a great
number of the diseases that the flesh is hen to.
Regarding these said diseases, it is a remarkable
fact that the flesh generally conies in for its
property, and, consequently, there is a favourable
opening for a medicine which strengthens the
brain and nervous system, staves off premature
decay, and cures a few of the troubles of this vale
of sorrow.
We suppose Osman Digna is dead. If he
isn’t he ought to be. The cable lias killed him
no less than six times ; fatally wounded him, three
times ; severely wounded him, four times ; totally
dispersed him and his troops, nine times; wiped
him out, 14 times ; finally threatened him, three
times ; discouraged him past recovery twice;
and made him escape, 17 times. If it
takes the British army to go through all those
operations on the body of one unfortunate black-
fellow before it finally pegs hint out, our trust in
its power will be shaken as if it had been hit by a
tram. But we have no evidence to show that
Osman is really defunct. Which proves how hi-
fi nitesimally small is the reliance that can be
placed on messages from the seat of anti-British
warfare. -
Character by Writing.—Professor Alcott, Graph iolo
gist, will, on receipt of sample and Is. stamps, forward
full’ clearly defined character of the writer, answer
questions, and recommend the most suitable occupation
without extra charge.—Address, Prof. Hugh Alcott,
G.P.0., Sydney.


Bu siness Announcements.
;j McLJBAN BBO&., MIOG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MBE CHAJNTTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. ~
*
SPECIALITIES:
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Oarhon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GASjCOOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER'S. JEANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &C,
COMPOTTJSnD
ISSEICE OE DiEDELIOI
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
MijHtiu, Lift! till Kidney Dimitri,
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
:o:
LIVER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and tonlo In conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
to:
TONE’S ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, le. pei
Box. Of all Chemists.
—:o!
e Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS,, Ltd.
Giticura
a
i
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
£
$55
Jot'
Scrofula on N»okw
to SCROFULA
HUMORS, Humiliating Krup-
i»e«i tll * o mc K * nd Burning Skin Torture*,
%UV. £*inmi» r T*\ and ® ver y »P©cie« of Itching,
iU. B L y ’ Juherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
of Hai/ Blood,.Skin, and Scalp, with
'£}» p‘J rom infancy to old age, are cured by
- ®*h»lly the new Blood Purifier,
** Skin CuT ictrßA and Cuticura Soap, the
ur ®* a nd Beautifler*, externally.
j?arhi n< ? Burning Skin Disease*,
Qa pii. er ® » Grocers’, washerwoman's Itch,
»e*e«‘, nn,i Delicate Irritations peculiar
l iou» instantly relieved by a warm bath
<tnili°hiu Soap and a single application of
WWith g j eat Skin Cure, This repeated
6t1, 1y en r OBe * of Cuticura Resolvent,
llh UV nn vl VUIH/UXtA AiiiDViillJiAt i)
Jt* Itching Diseases of the Skin and
4 ** other means absolutely fail.
Popular Work on the Skin,
a i 0 * late »s is wrapped about the Re-
. o> one hundred Testimonials, sol-
7, 'JrH f a i » uuuuitfil XCoVJ.iuvJiiia.AO) oop
TO thi» t before the British Consul, which
lit } ee , n a, terribte sufferer
'* obn„ Pleases of the Skin and Blood;
kian*. figurtn u° ®i lun public places by reason
humors; had the best phy
C Until B ? ent hundreds of dollars, and goi
uichT* Until T nundreds ot dollars, and got
av ® cn r , 1 ( j U t Bed the Cuticura Remedies,
~ a chii t > me ’ and left m y ekin and hlood
R°W t O ,, *■ Send for our sixty-four page
Gure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
0^ Dsti ualian Consignees,
* Co., New South Wales
CUTICURA RESOLVES* , tlio new Blood Puri-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henc«
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically,,
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cube (a Medicinal!
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap an exquisite Skin Beautifies 1
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever, Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts,
Eor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
/uz Ar.-td, Cuticura, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
si. )•; Cuticura Soap, 25 oents; Cuticura Shav-
ing <o;p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per licit, le.
Prepared xt tew
Potter Hrur * Chemical Co., Rost®*, P.IA.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
HDHSTBUBGhH.
at. OUNYN&HAMB, Bond-street, Sydney,
In balk
and case,
Best BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
Business Announcements.
M
0 N U M E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUM N INGHAM,
MAROAP.ET-BTB.EET. Wynyard-sqtjare, Bydney.
wunSEEFuL
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they hare done it in thousands of catxs.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of th.ese
Pills,' and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECIIAM S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. ' ,
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ae-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing’ all classes ofsociety ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s lulls have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bbkcu am’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Beeciiam’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. IPnot on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to ' ’ ‘
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
HATTERS
GEORGF STREET
SYDNEY
-'('PORTERS Of All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £1,000,000
Reserve F'und 500,000
1 The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, ™n offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts is-ued and Billsccllected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application. V Vk|A/ !
N. F. GIBLIf Acting Manager. *
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Bydnuy,
Have always In STOCK for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE! I,BUYERS
ONLY, *•
IRONMONGER Y.Fandj ! M
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINKS, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J, T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Business
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
quality.
FIRST
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
|By Special Appointment.
i —F WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W, BalcMn, Johnson & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney.
"df-jSydn&fr
J£mUarW£S£BLiJ£.sMOUNTAINSfr
Kirarraißrji CTErmratK^gacaaifc
W E <
can recommend the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address —
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPEB, Proprietor.
D"RI DOE’S
FOOD
ran INFANTS >n INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in Engia'ndV
•and is now being introduced into thd;
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta,suppiy A
as every wise mother will certainly,
use it.
ORtEIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS#
LONDON. ENGLAND,
Vi V H © M 4 6V.IM
AH Al N O
l
SNOIIO3MJV JLS3M3 Tlf ONW
SHDnoo'suffiONoaa ywHisv
■fii ~■ i
jf
GENUINE SODA WATEK.
THE
Sypkoi Mid Water Co.,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfeot Purity Guaranteed.
AFTCB •■rORS
Copyrighted.
•EFOM attlv
(Omiriaktt*.
kcustiche »nd Wkisktra.
. Boyd’* Beard Elixir did this,
land will do It on either bald
’head or bare fact' Forres
heavy Moustache in from a to
4 weeks and never fail*. 20,000'
young men already wear full
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 6d. each, %for S». Bd., post paid, sent under
•over, free from observation. Address, Frank Bonitlw, Sole Aaeni.
Box T3ti. Q P. 0.. SuAjivy, 0, w
s.
W ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin
296 PITT STREET.
Marqnees'on'Hire,
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Metals—
PARIS, I*7B, CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDITTM
are ol rare anti peculiar fragrance, nnu betng
registered can be obtained only of ths
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the mon th and
Improving the appearance or the hair,
guaranteed perfectly liarn leas
ATKINSON S FLORIDA VTA TER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand
kerehiet, distilled from the choicest exotics
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
J. & K. ATKIN BON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden


ROYALifIWfIJ
*4Klfl a
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by jeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
P. R. LARKIN,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT AND IMPORTER.
Ths Famous £3 Cass of ASSORTED WINES and SPIRITS
CONTAINS
3 Bottles BRANDY
i Bottle J amaica rum
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
Total ... 18.
Securely Packed and Delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
FRIICE OF WALES’ HOTEL, corner of George anil Gipp: Street:.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George Street. .
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREPT ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENIy VIDI, VICI.
For Artistic Posing and EflteotiTe
combining softness and brilliancy,
t Photographs of
GHARLEMONT & CO-i
ROYAL ARCADE,
PRE-EMINENTLY ALON®.
STAND
T
HE WONDER OF TH®
COLEMANE and sons
Pure Volatile TucalyptR
the only Genuine Eucalyp* c in
GOLD MEDAL, ADELAIDE JV
exhibition.
All those buffering from Asthma, Ba d WjJ
sumption, RheutnatiSm, &c , wM j«!t
Kidney end Gravel Complaints,
OIL a SAFE CURE Our VICTOR*,^, g
stands without a rival for M fl( j 0
Bad Eyes. We have more bona fla pogt0 d W
than any medicine in the w°r Qf 0U> *, fj(
address on receipt of stamps. AE °
r,nd 2s. 6d ; Ointment, 2e. 17, &°* f
Sydney and Suburbs, W. C. Saw-
Moore Park, SyCno* ——f®'
The science 0 J.p. ?t
By W. Knox Pabkeb/ 300 pair
A Book for Young and Old Me prgjj
bound in cloth, and contains o pes
tions. Price, post paid, . 3 *- ' NeP'°“°
sample free. Those suffering a( . on cfl '
luuistion and Diseases should
valuable work. Address: a
Post Office Chambers, corner Bou ,
streets, Melbourne, Vic.
A Blessing in every otfgjS
OLLOWAY’S PILLS i vilised"® r n0 tl< ei
■ 1 There is not a country m , Jicine8 ll ® v fl
che healing virtues of these grand e In all
recognised by thousands of cnlfer aC cion lS ' ; r ujA,
ailments of humanity their beneficent *e.
cognised. Fullest directions are supP y
every disease IF London- d P c .
factured only at 78 New ° XI B0 x«
chasers should look to the b a bel Lon^° n ‘
If the address is not 523 Oxford-str
spurious.
II
G-1SEAT S-A-HE OP
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, RacELS, Bags, and purses.
—— — teg*-- <M
WILLIAM BULLARD, 34S Q-EOK.G-JE STR» E »
CO.,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL &
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmith!" g, Blacksmithing. Plumbing,
Gas fitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “ PAN ’’fCLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents lor Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Meters,
- Warmers, «Se.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
00'
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT STREET’
Sydnky.
I*z<
B
ARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer JErating, Soda-water, Wine and Cider Garb 1 cidc rD„oi.
.. , r . - ices, Candle-makers, <£
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vignorons for
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting.
is, tauuu;-u““*- v *. n ,i v/-.
David Smith’s BPP^ d \V^, C
iviercnaiiLs, i-uoi/inoi cou. jjuujvj j -' - o —*= , Rea ae - „ I
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakcs Liquid Albumen bon b 1
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawtoras Jce > t ,
° . . . ... i i l— ifi fna inpws. Xiaif'-f . rlOl* i
r 111111KS ttlil 1 U»C‘ >c». jjlihioviji,iu — -- - . Tl'ind I®®
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventative of fustiness. L oeZ i»g P , 1
, , . . <i _i . C..U' /»/\a1o wefnr* m* Wlllfi lO B’-' lOS/ 1 I’dC''
,£13
)1. UUttLAIig ifiOAU-C UL V CILO l'*- ~ ~ “ , j.
family use; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or wine to
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon mi country distiic (P . Ac id, a
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extract, Sa -. jj 0 p B 1 A
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ginger
Illustrated Catalog ue Post Free on Apphcation. 1vrII *g;RA li
xar
Publishing Office of AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL,
AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW.” Specimen Copies 1 -
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
£oeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY,
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
* NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
JMLC ISTK’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
dVEOISTi^S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole A gents -
Mathey, Nathan & Co,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Coli ins Street East, Melbourne.
-
DE. K, J- jj. jffij
L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S.
registered in Great Britain, an a r,oui 0 S frt «p> t f/ 1 «<
late surgeon to H.R.H. Prince'W
Resident Medical Officer to the 0 f id
London, specialist for the treatn
and Heart Diseases, &c. narfoO^rltl^"
Consultation by letter or 1 yjglr
charge, at Edgar House, No. >
Hunter-street Sydney.
R.
Send for large Bound L °°‘ i»
lor all Nervous Diseases; P r * ’ MS' 1 '
age, 6d. in stamps. Consult®
and the Doctor will tell you at
case is curable or not. Addre _ T)m< 1
DR. RICH ®
7 SPRING STREET’ S*
RIO
0
tattkrsale’^
lllvff/
MUNSTER iiONSULTA
open upon all the
ughout tlio Year. Eor f 1 , g0 p $% f.
Are
throughout -
“ Town and Country Journal
“ Evening News.” Address, ~ 0 \, WTjeCf
of George Adams. Tattersall sJ» 0tg t»r
sons making applications for 0 8® gj or .
to register their letters to e mP ed #*/!
also enclose two addressed sta £ <y C/ I
for reply and the other for res JJP
Commercial Hotel, Gymp ie » /
— *!?
THE above is one of a/
Squatting Hotels iu * 0 \b
reasonable. Sample room. flJJ d tfj
Superior accommodation. pr 0 ?
Mrs. COMPEL’
T. F. WIESENER,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, Optician and
The Only Place in the Colony where Goods in this line are Manufactured by Steaml
Scientific Instrument
jyu
•NDSED, the Induabrlal Hive at 334 OEORO-ES STRBBT haa aprnng late exlabeaoe and gta«a ta Iba present dimension and *‘ ab the edg 0 of the foundation
Ufa and aaaffaooad br Old World Comoebiolon. The Main Soppobt haa oean a which has grown lhe
aa
IP .
Field Glaaaes, Levels, Theodolitea, etc. Special Goods made to Order at the Import Depot and Steam Factory of
O Ei Gr El 8 T R H H T, S "ST 3D 3ST El
W
B3 3ST IEQ
O- BJ
