

PHILLIP STREET, NEAR KING STREET.
zse.
The most elegant and finest appointed Kestaurant in the Southern Hemisphere. Patronised
by the elite of Sydney.
Private Rooms
for
Ladies,
and
Private
Dinner Parties,
Open on Sundays.
P A R iS
house
r
&
xz
IP
(?1 J
ui)
(tT
w.
i H
c
E
ffpiriifhliliTii
: jl.li }:i'ii'j; ttf'!,'
Well Trained,
Polite, and
Attentive Staff
of Waiters.
Lady in
Attendance.
Open on Sundays.
Theatre Parties served with Recherche dinners at most moderate rates.
Dinners served Table d’Hote, or a la Carte.
TaTbl® d’Hott, Including' Wine, 2s, ed._
Culinary Department under the supervision of a chef of long Continental and American
experience. Table supplied with the choicest viands and luxuries procurable.
Visitors to the Centennial will be agreeably surprised on a- visit to
Paris House and Restaurant Francaise,
PHILLIP STREET, NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
O. DESNEUX, Proprietor.
The Bulletin


THE LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIS,
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
. H. PALING & Go., Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOORS FR M G P,O.
att fhn best makers kept in stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The iron-framed
“virmß" Piano excels all others and is fully equal in 6very respect ;o Pianos sold at £52 and £55.
C ZI 2d B ta«£S pß£ and particulars UEBEL AND LECHLEIIER Pianos, and
E3TEY and Co.’s American Orgar.s are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TIME PAYMENTS, FROM 20s. A MOMTH.
ARDMAN BROS
/ Goi&fwSr&vr,
/ ajvb /
Trlacu ft
RffWffiS //.
ANUFACTURIRS
FSTD
/ass i
2HE
NiTiRMiORS
2
HI
Office i factory, nhytown w BRANCH. CeORCI ST. SYDNCY
THE AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE! CORNER of MARKET and
YORK STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500.000 STERLING,
ROARU OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J if. Martin, Eeq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathay, Esq.
Last Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate cl 12i per
cent 00* Minam , %
ißooui paid to Depositors of 12 monthß (2 per cent.]
„ 6 II per cent)
The Bank transacts ail usval Banking Pueinfts, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout Ihe world. Ovodrafts granted against
deposits ot Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed:—
At Call, 4 per eent.; 3 months, 5 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent. 12 months, 7 per tent. B> cider cl the Boaid of
Directors. H. M'NAMARA, Secrerary.
THO&. BUUKLAND,
HIRING. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGIBS
Charters Towers,
Agent lor Robey and Co., Engineer*, Linooini
„ „ Langland't Foundry Co., Melbourne Vl*.
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
charters towers, qofenbiabd.
UMBRfi LLAS
RE COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Eave you? Umbrella Braaaei re-
covered and your
Faracoli rs-lined and made BQua
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathcrat Street!
Paraaola made to match eoi
Inmea Eecair* neatly esaante#
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
MFKBIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE,
Proprietress, SABAH EATON,
te of Muswellbrook and Rockhampton.
ST First- olasß Family and Commercial Hotel.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonieß.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling public.
NORTHUMBEBIAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation wob Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J. F, K. STEWART, Proprietor.
GiTTEH3TSrSII.-A.lSr 3D.
MILLAR, CARTER, AND CO.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency. —T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher & co
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Bpirib Business to
592 a GEOFwGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINKS. SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and out of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES,
Belie Vise I
BHiXfcAIELA. INTEL,
Opposite FarUsmtnt Houses, Pctanleal Sfrf(t~
and Queensland Clul ■"
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTBI,
ACCOMMODATION FOR fll.
A Walter Meets Every Steamu,
Letters and telegrams please address pro-
S. M- COLLINS.
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets*
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments,
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city,
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JgXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated comer of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A iSGvEKfiIGAf REMEDY
To & 5 Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT
ROSE'S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared bp ttte Bole Proprietor,
1. I. &QBE, Pharmaceutical Bhemlst,
681 CJoorge-sfcrsot only.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
• 296 Pltt-street,
lifcr
®f*s»i
fe#
• fta*' *
* Ou.iKJN *up ft*c Uqmm
Q3SAit&r-
TH E ORIGINAL
v .iiAiiniw
AN ° *AUGHS°NUf
OBTAIN CO
FIRST CLASS AWARD
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MEHII
■ > * *• T' J\- ' ' 'T' ’ L, ‘L' * ; y.v:,
'
■ i
M
-
'■•-4.
.Jr : ’ -
A *£*.• '* v .'/a,' > • .-’V; --■ 't' ■ t' -T .•
ISTHE BEST INTHE. WORLD.!!!
NONE OTHER BUT
•' ':• WAUCH*S*
KlZt IV IO THE iNT £ B N AIION A l
ipAitemcdal
Manufactured byJawesCharnou
Harbour stsyo«*t$ t $yo«*t
Sold by AD €roccr*andSb)reß«p«>
1
ft!
*
K
i^r;
Ml
DIXON & SONS
TOBACOC WORKS,
SYDNEY.
t~\ixson & sons’ conqueror factory
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES TH»
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF Imported
into New South Wales, and hence the great sale
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobaoco
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE
CIGARETTES, HIXSON'S No 1 machine made,
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian le&l
and Paris rice tissue. size sold by all
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettes.
NEW ZEAI AND ,
TESXmOBriAJLS
From the Soudan Contingent Hospita
, Corps; also from eminent Doctor* and
i. j Student* .from Sydney Hoipital
m
MONK’S
pile mixture.
2a, Ed. per Bottle.
A«k for it and take no anbatitnte.
ti an invaluable oure. Bee teatimonfal*.
iMroisrnK^s
Cholera, Dysentery, Dlarrhese Mixture,
A positive core. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. por bottle.
IMIOHSTiKI’IS
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s, 6d. per bottle,
Sole Agents t
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY}
AND
14 Little s Collins treet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
'GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged In mining
business.
H.„G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE. QUEENSLAND
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcook’s). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junr,, Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
[FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office; Towngyille, N, Queensland,
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
MR. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry At
Bolton) wishes to inform the numero
friends of the Firm and the travelling public th
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charve
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will hWtor
be carried on under Mb personal supervisio
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situate
and faolng the oelebrated Mountain. Persons vis
log the oelebrated Mountain will find every comfc
and oenvenlenoe to greet them on their arrivi
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON TB
PREMISES, ALSO STABLING for the acsammod
bion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDGC
within flve minutes’ walk of the Hotel, Coach
DAILY FROM AND *0 ROOKHAMI-TON,
Note she AD»K*sa—
MICM A m h BOLTON
(Of the Finn of Lowry $ aaitaci,
SUNBURST H 0 T E
MOUNT MORttAH.
A l
'vi*-- 1
'HliSfiiilP-iPf
f n: *- )• rt:
HE
■K
TYPE-WRITER
Bavas labanr, etaSlsmjsf, and HsM, rrr'Misg nuoh faite*
than npni pea-jaan, m& 3sndfl»« t»g matter to leaa than
aun-half the sp*se cmplcd fcj pen writing. Beautiful
eoplee ■» h lthß biUie utual muonr In the letter-area*
Bold wholesale and retail be the ids Merits,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Keiit-Btreet t
c
IW
MAKUFACTURERSk
t IMPORTERS OR
HATS CAPS&t
436 CeTrCE S.
-OYDNBYI
•1 j
(A?
O PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything in Sydney, send to
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
O-EISriDIR.A.III, .A-GKEHsTTS,
OF
323 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY,
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEENSLAND*
Under the distinguished patronage of His E*'
cellency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Accommo-
elation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. Froth
the balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
and mail coaches daily from Rockhampton and
Klbra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro*
pritor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
JVEOXTISrT MOEGAIT.
QUEENSLAND NATIONAL HOTEL.
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprletr ss
JAlf'S PRINCE OP WALE’fij HOTEL.
ST. HILDA.
THIS first class Hotel offers superior accommodft'
tion to visitors and residents, being in a health?
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Ko‘
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Kilda Railway Station Private suite®
of aparlments. Ladies’drawing room. Gentlemen's
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths - without
extra charge,
BLACK’S LABOUR BUREAU,
1 and 5 CORRIDOR.
TATTKKSALL S BUILDINGS.
Hunter and Castlereagh Streets,
Owing to other engagements these Premises TO
LET, Furnished or Unfurnished, with immediate
entry.
of'fiyineyA
JZNOLAH 'CAVCS;UU£WoWmNfo
te
lACHINERY.
HftSi B
GMB
arA'SiNE
riMSiHES,
TOILERS
MIPS,
4;3;Wru»Atl
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
LOWEST COST!
ORAMEf
AN “
HOIST?*!*®
ENGIh*&
lawn
MQWER&
LOQOMOTS VEB, TUBB, LAUNCHES,^
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ill
III«
Hl* Pin STREET.
Melbourne s
£2, XING STREET*


The Bulletin
' ol 3-No 415
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14. 1888.
Price. 6d.
A Missionary Society Report—Somewhat Condensed.


“THE BULLETIN,”
Ike National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited,
THE
CEiNTEMIAL BULLETIN.
+
TO AGENTS AND READERS.
The 26th day of January , 1888 , being the
100th Anniversary of the day when our fore-
fathers landed at Botany Bay , “ THE
BULLETIN ” will CENTENNIATE on the
19th inst.-in a SPECIAL NUMBER of un-
usual magnificence.
All orders for copies of the CENTENNIAL
BULLETIN ” should be sent in at once.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 1888
The Brutality of Competition.
“ Noble spinners ! We have gained a hundred
thousand pounds, which is mine; the three-and-
sixpence daily was yours. Adieu; drink my
health with tiffs groat each, which I give you over
and above.” — From the address of Plugson, the
manufacturer , to his workmen.
Carlyle.
It is almost universally assumed by the sort
of political economy which is taught in uni-
versities and believed in by the powers that
be, that the chief and distinguishing glory of
the present era of industrialism is the lovely
theory of competition, by which it is unc-
tuously announced the best man always fills
the best place. The terrible waste and loss
to humanity of splendid energy and culti-
vated talent, which is worn away in the
hideous attrition of competition, is never
mentioned, or only with a sort of impatience,
as one of those trivial concomitants of pro-
gress hardly worth considering in our mag-
nificent and highly-developed civilisation.
Yet this fact is always staring us in the face,
as the unvarying result of competition the
wide world over, namely : The harder a man
works the more he deteriorates the value of
his labour, and almost in reverse proportion
as he receives a smaller and smaller wage,
caused by the increasing cheapness of the
article which he is employed in manufactur-
ing and the competition of the labour of
others against his own, is he compelled to
pay a higher and higher rate for the privi-
lege of existence. Manufactured articles
have an inevitable tendency to become
cheaper ; food products to become dearer.
Notwithstanding that the harder a man
works the cheaper his labour becomes, yet
we have the anomaly of the capitalist, who,
the less he works and the more he can per-
suade others to work for him, the richer lie
becomes, and the greater the control he ob-
tains over the results of others’ labour, and
ultimately over their lives and their fates.
* * *
Laurence Gronlund, who holds the same
position in regard to social science that
Hacked holds in regard to physical i cience—
taking Henry Georg* as the parallel to
Darwin —says :
“ We should all be starving within one year,
naked •within three, and houseless within ten
years, if Capital was not constantly being re-
created by Labour.”
But the labourer, although the creator of
the world’s wealth, participates least, in the
enjoyment of what he creates. He competes
against his fellow man for whom otherwise
he probably entertains the kindliest affec-
tion, simply that some few in the world
should have so much of the world’s goods as
to be able to waste more than they use.
Giles hates Hodge, because he fears that
Hodge will oust him from his place iu the
gutter where they are both struggling for a
bone, while Crcesus looks on smoking a
fragrant Havana, his well-digested dinners
hanging in fatty folds about his big prosper-
ous neck and the g.rth of his ve3t of phe-
nomenal and truly capitalistic proportions.
Crcesus smiles his fat, greasy smile at the
canaille cutting each other’s throats there in
the gutter—for his (Crcesus’) exclusive bene-
fit. These poor fools do not get a
bare subsistence wage, simply because
they do not subsist as they should in
order to do the work expected from
them. Their homes are hovels. Crcesus
lives in a palace. They eat coarse and in-
nutritious food. Crcesus, the capitalist,
fares sumptuously every day and dines at the
Cafe de Paris. The lives of these two classes
are different absolutely. The one labours
simply in order to live, while the other
enjoys the marrow of life on the fruits of
his brother’s labour without working at all.
The author of the “ Co-operative Common-
wealth ” breaks oat iadignantly with—
“ * If there be in this world a partnership be-
tween men whioh is natural, wise, and useful,’
one of our American ‘ statesmen ’ is fond of de-
claiming, ‘ it is the partnership between Capital
and Labour.’ Indeed, Capital and Labour are
just as harmonious as roast beef and a hungry
Btomaoh. There is the most beautiful harmony,
the most natural partnership between the two —
when they are united in one hand. But what
another contemptible juggling with words we
here have ! As if there were no difference at all
between Capital and individual ‘ capital-isfs !
. . . Capital and Labour, Siamese Twins I
Are capitalists and labourers Siamese Twins ?
Why ? Because they are in contact with each
other } So are the horse leech and its viotim.”
# * <*
In order that some idea may be formed of
the true relations between Capital atd
Labour, and the use the former makes of Its
remorseless weapon, Free Competition, it
will ba necessary to quote a few figure?
taken from the American census reports,
which are true of the relations of Capital
and Labour in every country where the
curse of the Industrial era his penetrated
and gained sway. These figures are supplied
by Gronlund, and we summarise from his
admirable work on Democratic Socialism.
We find by turning; to tha United States
census report of 1880—a fairly prosperous
year—that the employer paid the worker on
an average £69 4s. in wages, and fleeced, on
an average, from him the sum of £64 14s
Hence we get these deductions. He who
employed 10 workmen gained £647 ; he who
employed 25, gained £l6lB ; the employ-
ment of 50 secured £3235 ; of 100, the sum
of £6470 ; of 500 workmen, £32,350 ; and
of 1000 workmen, £64,700. Says Gron-
lund
“ Nearly sixty-five thousand pounds this latter
employer gained, fleeced, ‘accumulated’ (mark!)
in one year ! For what ? What had the workers
in return ? The privilege each to earn sixty'nine
pounds four shillings. The privilege to uie the
soil, the machinery, and all the resources of our
civilisation, which this employer possesses !"
• • *
The foregoing figures are very instructive.
The more extensive the operations of capital
the greater the “loot.” The system is a
beautiful one. It has no final ty. Not untii
the entire earth becomes the sole property
of one magnificent Jay-Gouldisli capi alist
who shall swallow up the smaller fry will the
present system of industrialism reach the
apex of its development. The whole thing
is a regular engine for spoliation. It ie
worked with almost ludicrous simplicity.
After paying for raw material, plant, rent,
and interest, a large surplus remains on the
selling price of a manufactured article which
represents the application of Labour to its
production. Does Labour receive this sur-
plus created by itself ? Oh, no ! Labour re-
ceives, perhaps, 50 per cent, or 45 per cent.,
or even 30 per cent., and the remainder goes
into the pocket of the philanthropic capital-
ist, and he calls it 'profit. The equally
philanthropic bushraDger calls it “ the
swag. ” Now this fleecing of ‘' j. rofit ” —t he
sum which represents the margin between
the coßt of production and the selling price
of an article—is simple appropriation—jast
that and nothing else. And the appropria-
tion is craelly and callously enforced by that
beautiful modern institution called Fiee
Competition. Man is pitted against man,
fathe r against son. They slave and sweat and
die that a man like themselves may enjoy good
dinners, rent a box at the opera, take his
airings in a private yacht, and drive his
jewel-bedizened wife abroad in a gaily-ap-
pointed barouche. Men consent to starve
themselves and their children in order that
one man may have more than he wants ; in
order that one man may indulge in criminal
and inhuman waste.
• • •
It all comes about thus : Some few, by
fair means i r foul, have managed to obtain
control of the soursesof production. They are,
indeed, very few—insignificant, compared to
the vast army of the dispossessed who are will-
ing to make great concessions to the for-
tunate usurpers to get back little bits of
their own agaia. But they never get any-
thing back. They simply are allowed to
use the sources of produc ion for the benefit
of the unjust holder. In return ttey obtain
the right to live as cheaply as they can. They
—the white wage slaves—ire so numerous
that they will work for less than food. They
sometimes die of slow starvation, these serfs,
white of skin and Aiyan by descent. But
the capitalist is generous. He contributes a
dole to the parish for the burial of h!s wtrn-
out white wage slaves.
* * *
When the one labourer erects his spine in
a new land and ten employers humbly be-
seech him to work for them, to name his
price, and they compete against each other for
the almost inestimable boon of his assistance,
whatever he receives is probably the true value
of his labour, because the employers could ha ve
no object in paying him anything he did not
earn. Suppose lie received for his day’s
labour one pound sterling, had there been
ten labourers, and no greater facilities for
their employment than for the one, the
ruling rate of wages per diein would have
been two shillings a man. Free Competition,
and Free Competition alone, would have
brought this about.
* * *
Now, is the capitalist justified in taking
advantage of the necessities of liis white
wage slaves ? No ! because if he be, the
highwayman has just as good an excuse.
The one robs by means of hunger, the other
by means of an army Colt’s. It is illogical
to elect one robber to Parliament and to
send the other to Berrima Gaol. Each lives
by appropriating, against their will, the re-
sults of the labour of their fellows, only the
highwayman is the less sinner of the two.
It is frequently advanced that as under
existing social conditions Labour cannot
apply itself to the processes of production
without the initial assistance of Capital,
therefore Capital should be regarded as
performing a rather philanthropic function
in making the action of Labour possible. It
must be remembered that the very shackles
that hobble the movements of Labour in this
connection are the outcome of the unjustly
assumed prerogatives of Capital Again,
Capital makes its first atsistauce an engine
for subsequent spoliation. Its philanthropy
is the philanthropy of the burglarious crow-
bar, which bursts open the bank i f hum n
industry and enables the capitalist to annex
the contents. Similarly, and quiteas logically,
it would be just to compliment the midnight
housebreaker upon the energy and enter-
prise which moved him, no doubt it some
consideiable expense, to supply hints If with
the tools wherewith to pick the locks and
remove the bars of the bauk he exploits.
We must always remember that in this
age of industrialism nothing is made because
it is wanted. Nothing is undertaken to
benefit the race. All enterprise, all busi-
ness energy and speculation are put in motion
to secure “profit,” Only that, and nothing
else. Contractors do not build railways in
order to afford work to navvies. Lord
Brassey does not run steel rails from l ndus
to the Pole out of any love to the class he
Sprang from. Oh, no ! His business is to
make money—“ profit.” All the money in
the world is slowly focussing. It is slowly,
gradually, gathering to a single centre. It
is aggregating into one pocket. If the
present system continues, there will ulti-
mately be a single monster capitalist. T hen
the remainder will awaken to the situation,
and possibly destroy him, or imprison him,
or otherwise put it out of his power further
to harm his fellows. Here is a singularly
beautiful theory of compensation. The
wealth of the world is slowly aggregating
into one pocket. Yet, as the capitalistic
ring narrows, the danger which threatens
the capitalist increases. His daily life is a
hideous struggle against an unknown enemy.
He sees hatred in men’s eyes, and fears for
his vast wealth, and struggles to keep it, if
hut to disperse it to the four winds of
heaven at his death. “Give peace in our
time; O, Lord !” is his constant prayer.
* •
If there is truth in science ; if Spencer
and Hacked, Darwin and Henry George,
Karl Marx and Gronlund are net gibber-
ing lunaiics ; if evedutien ii anything and
means anything, tb« prestnt t-ya.em of
things will be washed aw*y, like an incor-
rect sum on a child’s s’ate. We knoiv this
mvst ba so. Democratic Socialism is steadily
marthirg forward. In those countries now
enjoying the al eged benefits of representa-
tive gcvernmeat the workmen have every-
thing in their own hands. Their aim must
be to control the elections, to manipulate
the caucus, to gradually but surely get a
firm and unflinching grip of the already
existing machinery of government. Work-
men must everywhere organise, or-
ganise, organise. They must sink petty
differences, consolidate their voting power
the crushing force of the ballot—they
must keep their heels firmly down on the
faces of the calculating demagogues who
strive, out of silly and trivial agitations, to
make political reputations. Workmen must
never bother about little reforms. They
must combine in action to secure the great
principle, and they will do it every time.
There must be no multiplicity of organisa-
tions, no diversity of aims. One great
organisation, one great platform upon which
all workmen can meet—-this will conquer
everything. The removal of taxation from
the shoulders of indusLy and the placing of
it upon land, and combination to keep
up the rate of wages, should be the two
plaDks of supreme importance. But stop
not at this. Carry the war into the enemy’s
country. Compete against capital. Co-
operate! Co-operate!! Co-operate!!! This
one word summarises all the law and the
prophets of the industrial movement. In-
stead of getting the assistance of that
initial capital from the appropriator of the
results of your labour, by combination
keep up wagts sufficiently to enable you to
atom a little of the results of your own
labour, and then—Co-operate ! Meet Capi-
tal cn its own ground. It cannot exi t
apart from Labour. This shows its assump-
tive and unreal characttr. It is not in itse.f
the treasure ; the .reasure lies locked up in
the safe, the initial capital is the crowbar
which prises the Bafe-door open. Make your
own crowbars and co operate, for therein Is
the death-knell of the class that can live in
affluence without personal industry.
The Coming Invasion,
The British Jingoes, in their treatment of Aus-
tralia, model their conduct on that of the nurse-
maids of our early youth. They cajole with the
titles which are to grown men what rattles are to
babies ; they coax with the gushing phrases of
endearment and patronage, they bribe with the
bauble of glory, and, when all else scorns likely to
fail, they trot out the bogie of foreign invasion
to frighten Australia into the desired partnership
in the work of military murder. Recently the
bogie has boen very much in vogue. Promises,
patronage and the prospect of glory have not
raised our Imperial enthusiasm worth a cent, so
now the ghost of national dangor is raised to tor
rify the people of these seas into permanent na*
tional dependence. “ Become the servants of the
Empire or you will become the slaves of another
nation,” is the substance of the speeches recently
made by Carnarvon. Parers, Gillies, and
even in an apologetic kind of way by M‘ Arthur.
1 he alleged impotence of Australia in military
affairs is contrasted with the alleged rapacity of
fore'gners, and dependence upon Britain is
asserted to be the only hope of national salvation
for these States. That such an alliance would
prop up the decaying military prestige of Great
Britain, and enable the Tories once more to
swagger round Europe, is one of the inconsequen-
tial fac f s which do not enter into immediate con s
sideration. It is Australia’s safety, not
Britain’s advantage, which prompts! these Jing 0
pro- Australian Carnarvon’s to agitate the ques-
tion of Imperial Federation.
* » •
Considering Australia’s resources in men an
money, it is an imputation of cowardice to
that these States could not defend themselv e g
against foreign aggression. Is patriotism non-
existent on this continent ? Are the incentives
that aroused American valour and energy 100
years ago not present in Australia to-day ? Pat-
riot \sm and the instincts of self-defence may he at
the present obscured by the inferable cloak of
dependence which Australia now wears, but they
exist a-d are powerful all the same. If, as the
British Jiogors admit, the d sired offensive and
defensive alliance with Australia would give
England a louder voice in the councils of Europe,
it is absurd to suppose that these States have no
aggressive might. And the- power of defence
would be 50 times the power of aggression. To
argue that Australia cannot maintain her own
integrity, while admitting that she could strike
potent blows abroad, is manifestly fallacious. If
the British Jingo party did not desire the military
assistance of Australia, the argument in favour of
Imperial Federation, based on our own alleged
national impotence, might possibly avail to prove
something ; but, in the face of that desire, the
assertion can cany no weight whatever. In
sizing up the “bogie” it is necessary to notice
the limits to the strength of ary invading party.
No invader could sail from any port less than 9000
miles away, and, in spite of all the military ad-
vantages arising from the use of steam-power,
this distance from the base of operations would
be of great risk and consequence. And the net-
work of railways and telegraph lines covering in-
habited Australia would give the defenders ad-
vantages unknown to the American patriots of
1756. If Melbourne were threatened a Sydney
contingent could be transported thither within 20
hours of the time of alarm : men could be speeded
across from Dubbo to A delaide, or from Bourko
to Brisbane, in 18 hours. There is here every
facility for the rapid concentration of forces, and
an enemy effecting a landing would have to face,
within 18 hours, all the military strength of three
States. An independent Australia could be relied
upon to use all her advantages for defence to the
uttermost. Under the tutelage of the Empire,
and with Imperial warships in our harbours, the
work of defence is undertaken in a desultory
half-hearted fashion, and these colonies, with the
support of England, are probably weaker, even
for repelling an invasion, than without her.
* * *
It is furthermore of c;n3equence to notice that
the danger of invasion would be removed almost
beyond possibility by the advent of Australian in-
dependence. It cannot be too often affirmed that
our only presont danger of invasion arisos from
the probability of Britain’s becoming involved ill
war. Australia has no enemies of her own, and
can have none so long as foreign interference
forms no part of our policy. But out of our pre-
sent dependence dangers are prone to threaten*
for England’s enemies are also the foes of Austra-
lia. Before B. It. Wise* the present New South
Wales Attorney-General, started to serve a sentence
of Imperial grovel with the Parkes party he upheld
these views strongly, and figured as a deVotee to
the cause of Australian independence, but the
disastrous spell of Parkesian lunacy enveloped
him, and now he is as obsequious and subservient
as the rest of the crowd who whoop for Jingoism.
Independent Australia would be able when all
Europe was in tumult to extend her commerce,
and exchange her products in every part of the
World. Australia dependent upon England would
respond to every thrill of European terror, and
when England ws S at war would be shut out as
a belligerent from the markets of the world. The
disasters of war would be her portion although
the objects to be won were not of the remotest
concern to her people. Brisbane might be bom*
barded because Ferdinand of Bulgaria was de-
posed. Sydney might be shelled because Abdur-
rahman Khan proved treacherous.
* * *
The Imperial bogie points rather to foreign
rapacity than to foreign hostility. The idea seems
to be that if Australia were carelessly left lying
loose around, some covetous foreigner would
swoop along and annex it bodily. But nations
are not in the habit of risking such felonies. Chili,
Peru, the Argentine Republic, and dozens of
other little States have never been protected b>
the Imperial shield, but yet they have not been
annexed, and have held their own when the great
Powers of Europe grew rusty. Australia is far
more capable of defending herself than they are ;
she is a Continent —not a paltry little territory,
and the Anglo-Saxon is surely the equal of the
Hispano-American. Acts Qf annexation of such a
class are entirely out of date, and, if they were
not, the surrounding seas would ensure the safety
of Australasia. The only danger to bo feared in
a state of independence would be the Jingoism,
compounded of arrogance and covetousness, of
those who would seek to include under the Aus-
tralian name the small, and, to us, worthless,
islands of the Pacific. They could not be pro


tected, even under the Imperial regime, if a care-
fully planned attack upon one of them were made.
But if the Monroe doctrine, as applied to these
colonies, is strictly confined to the mainland of
Australia, New Zealand, and Tasmania, the “ Im-
perial bogie ” raised up to induce our submission
may be relegated to oblivion. This appeal to our
supposed cowardice is about the last, as it is the
meanest, of the Imperial devices to bind Australia
with dishonourable fetters of slavish dependence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Padoing ton Election
The retirement of Mr. TRiCKETTinto the hospital
for decayed intellects, known as the New South
Wales Upper House, has resulted in a wild and
eager scramble for the vacant seat, and the Pro-
tectionists, as is their wont, are found unprepared.
As we write, noles3 than four candidates are en-
gaged in a wild-cat struggle for the dubious
honour of a place in the Assembly, and dusty fads
and lunacies without number are being trotted
out by the carpet-baggers of the political world.
The old, tattered, wilted, half-mast flag of
“Parkes and Good Government” is again let
oose to the breeze, and the Freetrade Association
is doing its utmost to get a solid vote for the good
cause which is identified with cheap nigger-made
goods, insolvency, Circular Quay jobbery, the
Naval Defence swindle, and the Dead House in
the swamp. The softgoodsmen of York-street
have rolled up as one importer of foreign shoddy,
and their chosen candid ate, Mr. Hellmr 1 ch, despite
hi s record as the dullest of political medic critics, will
receive all the support which they can command.
Parkes, so far, has wisely kept his own person-
ality as much as possible in the background, and
the Freetrade candidate is spared the blighting in-
fluence of the first importer of coolie labour, and
is not actively cursed by the presence of
the man of syndicates, dubious land specu-
lations, and Imperial grovel. But, unfor-
tunately, the other malign shadow of New South
Wales politics is not wise enough to imitate this
policy of reserve. Mr. Dibbs, with his record of
past bungling, and his awkward associations with
schemes for Centennial drunks, is botching his
hardest on behalf of the Protectionist cause, and
the first result of his dire stupidity is the with-
drawal of the Protectionists, as an organised
body, from the contest. Mr. W. J. Allen, the
sturdy supporter of the cause of local, as
distinguished from German, British, and
Chinese industry, is not acceptable to
the long-drawn-out autocrat, and in his
place he wished to substitute an almost
unknown man, whose pants have a more graceful
hang, and whose boots wear a more reliable polish
Failing in this Mr. Dibbs stands out, and leaves
the representative of his opinions to fight as a free
lance, with the aid of such support as the pat-
riotic section of the electors may accord in de-
fiance of their miserably unpatriotic chief. It
remains for tbe people to decide whether the
welfare of their coun'ry or the wounded suscep-
tibilities of Mr. Dibbs are of greater account.
The wooden god of tbe Prot°c ionist party
solemnly disowns all share in the struggle and
clambers back to its perch; the wooden god of
the Freetraders, meanwhile, remains on its pedes-
tal and wisely refrains from inflicting on its wor-
shippers the curse of its active interference. The
contest, apparently, will be fought out cn the one
main issue of Freetrade v. Protection —the taxa-
tion for revenue purposes of articles which
New South VVal c s cannot produce, agamst
the taxation, for revenue and protective pur-
poses combined, of articles which she can
manufacture for herself, thereby furnishing em-
ployment for the Australian workman in place of
for the slave-driven p oletariat of the Old World.
So long as the Customs House endures New
South Wales is governed under the policy of Pro-
tection. The question which remains to be set-
tled is whether it shall be Protection for the
Chinaman, the Coolie, the German, and the Eng-
lishman, or whether it shall be for the Australian,
at present the only man who is not protected in
New South Wales.
The British Hors* Mai in©.
During the last month the chronic war scare of
Europe has passed through an unusually severe
stage. The Great Powers, severally, individually,
and collectively, lave been standing on (he verge
of a life-or-death struggle with themselves or
each other, or with somebody or something, for
some reason which nobody knew anything atout,
and though no one had any distinct idea who was
going to fight or what they were going to fight
for, reserves have been called out and armies
have been rushed about in frantic haste to
nowhere in particular, and hard-up emperors
have been trying to raise money for a campaign
and haven’t been able to rahe it, and have got
mad in consequence a> d have called out more
reserves The air has been full of that impalpable
thing called “mobilisation,” and for a while there
slimed to be a fair chance that some 8,000,000
Soldiers wou'd go out to butchery without any
single individual knowing Why. .Even England
has taken the alarm and lias added £lOOO to the
Duke of Cambridge’s annual screw, and a huge
iron-clad was hastily put to sea, but the bottom
fell out of her before she had gone a mile. Aus-
tralia, as the satellite of England, has also
suffered in a slight degree from the same hath m-
less panic, and the drapery Bashi-hazoufes
of Victoria have been discussing the advisability
of inviting Lord Wolseley, the hero who rose in
the dead of night and squelched Arabi and his
half-armed Copts, to come out at a high price and
inspect the defences of Australia, in order that he
might recommend the expenditure of more money
on guns and fortifications, and rouse up a spirit
of loyalty among the excited colonial warriors
against the time when Britain next goes out to
murder some little nigger who is asleep in bed
and doesn’t know she is coining. Under the exist-
ing Imperial regime > it is always considered ad-
visable, whenever a nation which is located
16,000 miles away, and which the colonists have
never seen, finds itself drifting into war, and
doesn’t know why it is doing it, that Australia
should prepare to lick somebody that she never
heard of, and whom she doesn’t know from Adam,
and, in such a case, the correct thing is to import
a high-priced British horse-marine to give advice
and then go away again. Why this should be
the correct thing no one knows, but it is so.
Britain, at present, has no fortifications worth
speaking of ; her Generals—and she has more than
6(jo of them—arc perpetually asking what will be-
come of their country if it should be invaded, and
not one of them knows ; and her great sol-
diers of the present generation have fought
against nothing larger than the little nigger afore-
said, and have more than once been defeated
even by him. The British army of to-day loses
its way in an autumn manoeuvre in its own
country, and can’t find itself again without the
aid of a diagram; the British navy has neither
bottom nor sides; and the British Government
has a hideous knack of wading into foreign com-
plications, and then not knowing how to get out.
It becomes a question, therefore—always suppos-
ing that it is absolutely necessary for Australia to
enter upon a path of bloodshed —whether she
should not endeavour to And some mo e reliable
and less costly guide to slaughter than the British
ammunition-waggon officer of the period. A Ger-
man general of repute could be obtained for a
reasonable figure, and the German soldier has
proved, by actual demonstration, that he
knows how to do something more than
back out whenever a white man tells
him to go; a Turk, such as Osman of Plevna,
could teach the 4 ustralians how to turn a mud-
walled village into a fortress and hold it for six
months without a cent, against a stupendous
army ; but so long as the bulk of the British army
is required to evict old women in Ireland, and
London itself is left open to any sudden raid, we
decline to believe in the value of British advice
in the matter of fortification and internal defence,
The eminfnb dancing officers who came out to
look after the defence of Australian cities have
themselves never defended a city except against
Arabs and Burmese, and have not one in afi
Britain that is capable of defence, and their high-
priced foreign ignorance is an article which is
hardly worth paying for.
♦
The old Freetrade Lie.
The Paddington election contest has again
brought to the front the old, enduring, cast-iron
lie about the oppressed and tax-laden serfs,who,
in less happy climes, stagger on their joyless
way under the overwhelming burden of Protec-
tive tariffs. According to the mendacious elec-
tioneering Cobdenite, New South Wales, because
it is cursed by a race of ignorant politicians, who
boast unceasingly about the golden age of com-
mercial freedom, is, therefore, freer and loss
heavily taxed than its southern neighbour, Vic-
toria ; that its citizens are not burdened as in
that hapless land of darkness ; and that, because
duties are not levied on certain articles of import
which are liable to Customs charge? in Victo ian
ports, the population pays less to their Govern-
ment and fives more cheaply in consequence than
the white serfs who know not Parkes. The
ignorant multitude are taught on all hands to
believe that Freetrade means that trade is free,
and few imagine even for a moment that under
the policy, whose very name is a lie wherever it
is practiced, the Customs duties arc often heavier
and more burdensome than in lands where this
gospel has never spread. Yet, according to the
New South Wales revenue returns for 1886, that
land of commercial liberty exacted by means
of Customs duties on imports J26J 000 more
than Victoria levied in in port and ex-
port duties combined, and this year the
Parkes Administration, which obtained office
under the false pretence of liberating commerce,
ha 3 reduced this exaction by £57,000 only. At
the present moment the population of the Free-
trade country pays £2 per head in Customs duties,
while the citizens of protected Victoria are
charged to the extent of £2 2s. Gd., and other
forms of taxation bring the account practically to
a level. The actual difference to the people
amounts to a few pence per head, and it was on
the strength of one or two paltry coppers that
Parkes and his faction stumped New Fouth
Wales in a blaze of glory from east
to west, and from north to south, in favour
of the great .cause which means to them
good billets and high salaries. Moreover, the
present Freetrade Government receives from land
and other sources millions per annum more
than the Protectionist Ministry of Victoria—in
other words, the men of freedom and light draw
from the people in one shape or another an aver-
age of £8 10s. per head, while the downtrodden
serfs of Victoria are despoiled of £7 only. Free-
trade, so far as it has ever been practised on this
earth, is a living lie, and a sham of the
first magnitude. The difference between
it and Protection merely cons sts in a change
in the position of the inevitable burden ;
the Protectionist adjusts it so that taxation itself
may foster industry ; the Freetrader places it
where it lies like a mighty leaden incubus upon
the shoulders of the nation. So long as the land-
owners are not required to tear the c st of
government, so long will Customs tariffs be neces-
sary, but the policy of the Cobdenites consists in
levying duties upon articles which the country is
unable, from its climate and other conditions, to
produce, so that the burden continues to the end
of Time and produces nothing, while his opponent
prefers to tax articles which the country can
manufacture for itself, in the hope that, while
satisfying the wants of the Treasury, he may-
foster industries, which wdl one day make the
nation rich. No civilised Government, whether
Protectionist or Freetrade, has ever levied more
money than its exigencies required, and the effect
on the citizen is the same whether he is taxed
upon the tea which he cannot grow, or upon the
clothes which he can produce for himself if he
tries, in place of sending his scanty funds to sup-
port the labourers of a foreign land. The Pro-
tectionist’s experiment is, of course, liable, under
certain circumstances, to end in failure, bit
should it fail the nation is none the poo er. It
has paid to the • tate not one penny more under
the policy which bade it. wors and hope, than
under tbe boasted system of the political rene-
gade, Parkes, who bids it lie down in the
ditch and wait and depend for its support
on foreign industry. Freetrade taxos/the masses
as heavily as Protection, and its only recommen-
dation is that it offers nothing in return. Its
future is a blank. A Freetrade Government is a
means for raising money—nothing more. At-
tempting nothing, doing nothii g, hoping nothing,
creating nothing, it totters on its imbecile way, a
soulless machine which grinds the nation exceed-
ing small, and leaves no human being one whit
the better or the richer for its selfish existence of
empty boasting and barren lies.
«
‘ Convened by Obscure Persons ’
That sham Democratic oracle, the Sydney D.T.,
has long been well-known to mediocrity as the
special organ of the unfrocked parson, and the
soulfulness of that dumb ecclesiastical dog shines
out in every line of its somnolent pages. The
other night there was formed in Sydney a branch
of the Australian Land Nationalisation League,
and the CRcesus-like scribe who was despat ched
to furnish a report of the affair alluded to the
initial meeting in the columns of this lofty Judas
print, as a demonstration “convened by obscure
persons,” “non-residents of Sydney,” &c. This
comes with peculiarly good grace from a paper,
the early obscurity of which bids fair to be
eclipsed only by the muriy Letheian oblivion to-
wards whichitisnow painfully staggering apaper
which pretends to believe, and with all due rever-
ence be it spoken, in the religious teachings first
promulgated by an obscure carpenter—a paper
which preaches the fiscal doctrine advocated by
an obscure British bagman who used to drop hia
H’s, in which peculiarity he ia imitated by that
other fiscal fetich of the D. T.’s, the exponent of
Cobdenism in New South Wales, an obscure
journeyman button-maker from Manchester, ob-
scure Chartist, obscure Kiama-ghost raiser, ob-
scure purple-monkey-on-a-yellow-stick constructor
of Hunter-street, Sydney, in the days before the
D.T. had begun to chant the beauty and holiness
of Protection. This is renegadism with a ven-
geance. It is like conspiracy by a lunatic
against the personal freedom of all sane
people. It is only equalled by those Irish
patriots who land-league in Ireland previous
to becoming land-holders in America or
Australia. But does the D.T.’s bloated Jay
Gould know of any single reform which was not
first advocated by “obscure persons?” Were
not the very people who managed to build up
our present perfect condition of things “obscure
psrsons ?” How about the present Minister for
Lands, no doubt a very sacred person in the eyes
of the D.T.’s capitalist; was not he an obscure
printer’s devil ? Were not Governor Carington s
paternal ancestors very obscure money-lenders ?
The visiting aristocracy to which the Sydney
daily editor is so fond of salaaming, was it not
fed—is it not being continually fed —by very
obscure-persons? The D.T.’s scribe is weak on
his historical legs. Let us give h ! m a few facts.
The magnificent Sunday-school movement which
the D.T. occasionally twaddles about so
grace'ully owes its origin to an obscure printer.
The nob est religion of the East, which now
numbers almost as many followers as the faith of
Jesus, and which is spreading 100 times faster
than Christianity, with all its cost’y missions and
paraphernalia of gilded bishops and auriferous
priests, was founded by an obscure camel-driver
in an obscure corner of Arabia. '1 he freedom of
Switzerland wss achieved by an obseux-e moun-
taineer ; that rf Tyrol by an obsure inn-
keeper and cattle-dealer. Tamerlane was a
shepherd, yet, notwithstanding his obscurity, he
conquered Asia and a considerable portion of
Europe. Duiing the ascendancy of Napoleon—
himself the son of an obscure lawyer and Italian
refugee—Sweden was governed by an obscure com-
mon soldier, Naples by an obscure ostler, the son of
an equally obscure innkeeper, Holland and Spain by
the obscure brothers of the obscure Bonaparte
Is it necessary to infotm the D.T. that the revolu-
tion it admires so much, that of the a merican
colonies against England, was headed by an
obscure surveyor, assisted by a lot of obscure
farmers and settlers in the character of gene-
rals and statesmen ? Must we point out
that one of America’s most famous men,
ambassador to the politest court of Europe,
was an obscure compositor ? Shall we in-
form the D.T. that it was an obscure marine-
surveyor who had been an obscure apprentice in
an obscure collier-brig who discovered Australia,
while another obscure marine-surveyor, who bore
only the obscure title of midshipman, was the
first to circumnavigate it? Must it be informed
that it was an ob cure ship’s surgeon who dis-
covered Bass’s Strait, while the son of another ob-
scure ship’s surgeon was the man to whom New
South Wales owes its Constitution ? Must we in-
sist that every great movement was initiated by
some obscure pei’sons, for the very simple reason
that the great are not specially “interested” in
bringing about reform ? The great labour party
of America, the Knights of Laboxxr, grew out of
an obscure meeting in an obscxxre room at which
only seven “obscure persons” were present.
Land Nationalisation itself owes most to an ob-
scure type-setter. The abolition of slavery in
England was mainly the outcome of the efforts
of an obscure scribbling barrister who never held a
brief; in America it was the work of an obscure
abolitionist hanged at Harper’s Ferry, of an
obscure printer who was always haviog his
obscure house burnt down, of a singularly rugged
and obscure rail-splitter who lived to die his
country’s rule' 1 , of an obscure soldier who was too
brusque to take the trouble of explaining to the
world that he was a great man. But we have
neither space nor patience to continue. It is use-
less explaining that publicans maybe postmasters-
general, or cobblers ministers of mines ; sufficient
is it to state generally that although nearly all
great movements of reform are initiated by
“obscure persons,” there is small chance for the
D.T.’s scribe over to emerge from the somnolent
obscurity which settles upon the Sydney King-
street twaddle emporium like thrice-boiled dys-
pepsia on the soul of a suburban lush-house.
+
If the old prospectors of Ballarat are inclined for
a real good centenary celebration, a favourable
opportunity presents itself. It has taken them 30
years to erect a dirt mound and a plain, goat-proof
fence on the spot where the diggers fought on the
famous morning of the battle at the Eureka
Stockade, and it is now proposed to erect an old
chimney-pot cannon on top of the heap, said piece
of dismantled artillery not to cost more than £7O.
Therefore, we would suggest that the share-
bi’olters of the “Corner” should put their clay-
headed spectre of Her Gx-acious up the spout, and
sell all the rest of the grovel they can
lay their hands upon, and spend the
proceeds in a decent monument. The
dead diggers of the old heroic age would probably
sleep no more peacefully in their neglected gi'aves
for this ti'ibutc to their memories, but it would at
least show that Victoria was not altogether
unworthy of the sons who fought for her, and
that the soft-good 3 warriors in ridiculous uniforms
who skirmish among the bread-waggons in many
a hard-blundered autumn manoeuvre, and di-ink
loyal toasts amid the pomp and circumstance of
glorious dinner-struggles, are not—in their miser-
able subserviency to Imperial traditions—the
representatives of the true public spirit of a great
colony.
+
Thf, Queen’s statue now occupies its pedestal at
the top of King-street, Sydney. There is a tre-
mendous irony of fate in this. The spot on which
congregated the possessors of “ breadlcss homes”
or no homes at all, and the owners of a corres-
ponding uoheresomencss of victuals, is now
beamed down upon by the effigy of one win is
known to have so tender a regard for poverty and
misery, and whose world-wide sympathy is un-
bounded to the very verge of a “collect” tele-
gram. The “statehu” faces the Insolvency
Court. Possibly this is meant for a piece of
satire on the part of the powers that bo, and is
intended to convey to the sneering mind of the
passing scoffer that the outlook of the Britannia
metal ruler is to bo taken symbolically as she gazes
down on a eleaned-out nation, but we trustfully
pray that this is not so. The very idea is pro-
fanation. Hitherto the people of New South
Wales have been celebrated for being more loyal
than the ultra-Tories of Eigland; more English
than the English themselves. This is because
they were acquainted with the outward aspect of
their sovereign only from the golden and silver
coinage of exchango. But you cannot idealise a
jrUKLRH and preserve the likeness. The sculptor
tias done his best, but human ability has its limi-
tations. The “ statchu ”is moderately idealised,
but it isn’t lovely enough to fix the fickle multi
tude. . Henceforth the cause of Primrose League-
ism will steadily decline below the Fahrenheitish
zero. The Sydney Imperialists have made a foolish
move. Still, however, the presence of the brassy
image has its advantages. The toadies and flunkeys
of Sydney will now have something concrete to bow
down before and to spill their young affections
over, and a bronze queen is better than a live
governor. Providence is a long way off—a darned
long way and the alleged Christians of Australia
feel the want of a live meat deity to worship, or
failing her in person, a bronze caricature will fill
the bill. In the old English prayer-book—the
edition which is still in use in the Royal chapel
at Windsor, although it is abandoned everywhere
else—the pronouns which refer to her Giacious
are each preceded by a huge piratical-look-
ing capital, whi'e a plain small letter is
held to be good enough for the Holy Trinity, and
we would suggest that this edition should be re-
vived in Sydney for the benefit of loyalists in
general, and Primrose Leaguers in particular.
Alexander the Great claimed to bo the son of
Jupiter, Nero and Caligula demanded divioe
honours to be paid them, Romulus was enrolled
among the gods of Romo, and the heroes of
Greece pretended to a divine origin. There is
precedent enough, therefore, for the new religion
of ViCTORiA-worship, and accordingly we toot the
bugle and welt the big drum under the shadow of
the new statue, and bellow, in company with a
loyal throng, ‘'Great is Diana of the Ephesians.”
We have a suggestion to offer in honour of the
hundredth anniversary of Auatra’ia. George
Cruickshank by means of a picture, brought
about the abolition ef hanging as a punit-hmeni.
for the crime of passing counterfeit oce-ponnd
notes, and taught the world that a human lifa
was worth more ihau 20s. sterling. Let some
Australian artist now paint a great realistic pic-
ture of the flogging of Rufus Dawes, as an his-
torical blood-offering in honour of the Centenary,
and we engage to reproduce it in colours, and
iisue it through Australia by the thousand, for
this worship of triaeg’e and cat, and gyves and
gallows, and groans, and death agony, and blood
must cease in the land e'e we can become a nation
and take cur stand, with an erect head, among
the other nations of the earth.
On the marble slab over the grave of a
very rstimable lady in a Sydney suburban cemetery
may be read the legend: “Here the wicked
cease from troubling and the weary are at rest.’
Ihe Taree, N.S.W. Debating Club re-
ceives weekly a three-column report in the local
journal, while the proceedings of the country’s
Parliament are cut down to a miserable paragraph.
One of the elegiac snd epitaphical poets
of the Melbourne Age speaks of httle Sonny being
now with the “ angles.” Thit’s because during
his brief life here he acted on the square :
My daring how we loved him,
No tongue can ever tell;
He left us for the better land,
With anyles there tj dwell.
There is a shining land-sgant in New
Zealand who runs his show on pure business prin-
ciples. He had an a lotment on his books which
even a Chinaman turned up his nose at, and wt en
tee local drummer for the holy sepulchre was
asked if he would like to buy it and bui'd a little
Ebsnezer in the middle of in with a nice gravel
walk and the water laid on in the back yard, he
looked at the agtnt as if he were a serp?nt. Then
the brilliant land-crab went home and hired a
penny-a-iiner in a flowe-y mood to write up an
advertisement, and the advertisement when in-
serted was such a thing 0 f beauty, and so u terly
unlite what the vacant lot really was, that the
owner of the property sent along the cheque at
once and bought it without seeing it. A day or
two later he found that he bad purchased his own
mean-looking 1 ttle lot at an exorbitant p'ice and
had to pay tne agent commission on the transac-
tion, and then he lay down and kicked and longed
to join the tow headed seraphim in the immortal
spheres.
A good old chestnut of the N. Z. Legisla-
ture. Hon. W. Rollcston, when Min ster of Lands,
made a barefaced bid for the vote of democratic
F. J. Moss. The latter promised to let him know
in writng in the mirning, and when the morning
came the Minister received a letter containing the
line “aßoileaton gathers no Moss.” And this
reminds us c f another good story. Moss was leader ■
writer for the N.Z. Herald when Sir George Grey
came from the seclusion of Kawan to liberate from
the rule of “1 he Continuous Ministry.” WilsoD,
proprietor of the Herald, though a democrat in
politics, was a good deal mixed up with land-rings,
etc. One night, during the progress of an elect urn
campaign, Grey delivered a stirring speech about
Ministerial rottenness, and, as an instance, men-
tioned that the Government had recently given a
syndicate of their friends a valuable block at a
tenth of its value. Moss, who was at the meeting,
rushed off to his office, and produced a stinging
article against the particular job mentioned by
Grey. Next morning ho met Wilson looking very
glum. “ What’s the matter, sir ? ’ asked Moss,
“ nothing wrong, I hope ?” “ Well, no,” said Wil-
son—“ not much—that is to say, I have £5OOO in
that Syndicate you have slated so badly.”
Wellington, the reputed Capital of New
Zealand, is not exactly a paradise elysium to live
in, even if you are an M.H R , K C M G , or an: -
thing else cn two pins with the alphabet stagge •
ing in a sickly process on after your behind name.
What between earthquakes, howling breezes, ana
bum-bailiffs at every corner, the Empire City can
chuck you out of bed in the morning, wipe your
eyes with road metal, and sell yon up for last
month’s milk score, quicker than any other place
on record. A recently elected M H.lt, hailing
from a distant part of the colony which enjoys an
average of one calm and peaceful day in seven,
lost his temper and said a spiteful thing about tlio
city, the other day. He had been seen, admired;
and cheered, eh sing his hat round sixteen street
comers and half as many wooden blocks, and
after ho had recovered the wreck and scraped off
as much of the reclamation as his legislative
duties would give him time to do, he repaired to
bis hotel for lurch being a little beh nd time
owing to the accident. He found mine host
struggling with the carvitg tools, and s> methh g
with two 1c gs on a dieh before him. “ What win
you have, Mr. MP !" enquired mine
host. “ Shall I help you to some teal ?"
“What's teal?” gruffly asked the legis-
lator. “Oh, some kind of duck,” was the
rrply. “Has it wings?” queried the member,
while a titter went round tbo aseemb’ed Welling-
tonian lumbers. “ Oh, yes, it has a pair of ’em.”
“Can it fly?' At ihis question, the citizens
present began to rhirk the peoples choice bed
suddenly gone mad. “ Ob, it can fly like a bird,”
answered mine host. “ Then I won't have it. If
iti has wings ard can fly, and didn t clear out of
this miserable windy city, I don't want to have
anything to do with it.”


HISTORY OF ROTARY BAY.
“ The greater number of overseers in the
oolony," wrote a man who was himself In charge
of a chain-gang, “ have been criminals themf
selves, and have neither prudence, honesty, nor
humanity. They are lufflans, who are actuated
and influenced by the worst passions, and fre-
quently flog an unfortunate wretch for complain-
ing of their oppression," These were the gentle
creatures to whose tender mercies the newly-
arrived convict was now handed over. When a
convict had passed through the horrors of the
voyage, and the Inferno of convictlsm in the
colony, and had shown to the satisfaction of his
very competent judges that he had been improved
into the lowest grade of brutality, he was made
an overseer of a chain-gang. By this means the
standard of brutality and barbarism was efficiently
kept up. By an exact analogy, and with a very
slight modification of the principle governing the
same process, we find the traditions of convict
government surviving in the colony to this day,
with a criminal cede which, for sanguinary
brutality, will compare favourably with that of
any other country in the world —with the single
exception, perhaps, of Morocco.
* * *
The labour gangs were drafted away into
the Parramatta or Hawkesbury districts, and
Eet to work in the fields like the beasts of the
same. The political prisoner,.Holt, has a note of
something he saw on entering one of these culti-
vation-paddocks f first time. The Reverend
Mr. Marsden-—we must deal with this worthy
presently—Mr. Atkins—the Judge-Advocate, who
also claims a place in the Btory—Captain John-
stone and Dr. Thompson were with him. “We
proceeded to a Government settlement. At a dis-
tance I saw about fifty men at work, as I thought,
dressed in nankeen jackets, but, on nearer ap-
proach, I found them naked, exceptfor a pair of loose
trousers. Their skin was tanned by the sun and
climate to that colour. I felt much pity for the
poor wretches." A little conversation ensued,
which is worth recording—
Captain Jobnßtone addressed me, saying,
* Mr. Holt, you are a'good farmer, I suppose ? ’
« j do well enough with horses and oxen, but
not with men,’ said I.
Dr. Thompson then said, Do you not think
these men would understand you better than
horses or oxen J’
• Yes, sir,’ I replied, ‘ but it appears great
brutality to work men in this manner.’
* Well,’ said he, * it matters not what you think
about it, you will scon come into it.’
The humane dootor, it will be seen, had the
profoundest confidence in the brutalising effects of
the system on all who were brought'.into oontact
with its operation. And he was right.
* * •
The’soil of Parramatta and its vicinity is
scored as deeply by convict labour as ever the
backs of the convicts were excoriated by the lash.
Every hill, probably, has seen its whipping-post,
and every field has been watered by convict
blood. The gallows on Constitution Hill stretched
its black, gaunt arm like a grisly f ceptre over the
land, claiming everything in view by the right of
exclusive possession. To this day the ghost of
dead and buried convictism broods over the dis-
trict which bears a repute in old colonial history
not second either to that of Port Arthur or Nor-
folk Island. Horrible stories of convict murders,
of men flogged to death, of convicts at the
triangles and on the gallows, hang like dead-
weights on this chapter of our miserable colonial
story.
The Government regulation set apart a
certain quantity of work to be done in a given
time. The persons to whom convicts were as-
signed gave this out to their white labour by the
day, week, or month. The convict was to be paid
a certain price for all the work he did beyond the
stipulated quantity. Each man cost his employer
12s. per week, for rations, lodging, and such
clothing as he had. If any were idle, and did
not do the regulated quantity of work, “ it was
only neoessary to take them before a magistrate,”
says a writer of the time, “and he would order
them 25 lashes of tbe oat on their backs
for the first offence, 50 for the second, and
so on ; and if that would not do in some
cases it did not do, because the slave-driver was
so anxious to get some return for his 12s. per
week that he compelled his victims to w ork while
their wounds were still gaping—“ they were at
last put into a gaol-gang, and made to work in
irons from morning till night.’’ There are some
instances given when an occasional holder of convict
labour treated his men with a certain tolerance.
These cases were few, and happy was the con-
vict who could get into such a service. “ Most
of them," we are told, “ by finding out that
honesty was the best policy, became sincerely
honest and well-conducted, and lived and died
valuable members of society. So muoh does
gentle and mild treatment win upon the minds of
men, while harsh severity and coercion hardens
their hearts, and brutalises their characters.”
But the gaolers of these men and the ofllcials
of the settlement cared very little about
these moral observatiots. It was not to their
interest to see their victims become valuable
members of society. That interfered with the
dishonest fortunes these officers were making. It
was to their Interest that the unhappy convict
should be remorselessly find hopelessly ground
down. It was on this view that they consistently
acted.
* * *
The msgistrateß were in collusion with
the officers, and the judges with the magistrates.
Judge Dore was nearly always drunk, and Judge-
Advocate Atkins, who relieved him, was more
drunk still. But this only sharpened their ap-
petite for blood. In Governor Bligh’s report on
the colony he expressly mentions that Judge-
Advocate Richard Atkins bad repeatedly pro-
nounced sentence of death in moments of intoxi-
cation. Mann, who has written about the early
days, writes this with a running pen, as it were :
““As ir stances of the irregularities [this word is
Machiavellian] that have been practised by some
of those in magisterial capacities, I meed repeat
none others than that I have known men without
trial to be sentenced to transportation by a single
magistrate at his own barrack; and free men,
after having been aoquitted by a oourt of criminal
judicature, to be banished to one or other of the
dependent settlements; and I have heard a magis-
trate tell a prisoner who was then being examined
for a capital cffenc •>, and had some things on him
supposed to be stolen, that were he not going to
be banged so soon, he (the magistrate) would be
d—-d if he would not make him say from whence
he got them ; nor do I believe it less true that
records of an examination, wherein a respectable
young man was innocently engaged, have been
destroyed by the eame magistrate before whom
the depositions were taken.” Ic need only be
added to this that transportation meant hard
labour, often for life, in the coal-mines of New-
castle, or banishment to Norfolk Idai d.
* * *
Judge Atkins was not popular, strar ge to
say. He could sentence men to flogging or trans-
portation with a hiccup, and cock the black cap
over his eye with a leery air as he pronounced the
last sentence of the law in what Bligh euphuisti-
cally called his “ moments ” of intoxication—and
yet they did not love him ! These accomplish-
ments, and the genially sociable qualities of this
drunken Draco palled on their jaded fppeti'es.
So they excogitated a little plot. Unfortunately,
perhaps, it failed in its execution, and the plotters
were arrested. Judge Atkins adjudicated, and
this is what took place :
Question : “ Did you hear the prisoner say all
this ? ”
Witness : “ No; I only heard him say that he
would flog the Judge to death.
Judge Atkins : “Did he say for what reason
he would flog me to death 1 ”
Witness : “ Because, sir, you had ordered
men to be flogged, and they had died from the
flogging.”
And yet the Judge was not popular—except, in-
deed, amongst the class which admired his firm
and uncompromising administration of the law.
Colonial history is always repeating itself, and
this opportunity has not been missed.
* * *
“ The more convicts that can be made
over to individuals, and taken off the stores, the
greater will be the advantage,” said a W hitehall
despatch of 1796. The principle thus laid down
was carried out in a very thorough-paced fashion.
The labourers worked from five in the
morning till eleven, and from two in
the afternoon to sunset. The Governor in
1800, wrote thus “ Notwithstanding the
number of people brought from Ireland by the last
two ships ’’—this was just after the rebellion
“we have received no great accumulation of
The Majesty of the law—rather the worse for
liquor.
strength. Many of the prisoners have been either
bred up in genteel or professions, unacous-
tomed to hard labour. These are a dead-weight
on the publio stores.’ ’ Barrington’s history, re-
ferring to these men, says : “ Notwithstanding the
detestation of the crimes many of them are trans-
ported for, yet it was not possible f r the Go-
vernor to send a physician, the once sheriff of a
county, a Catholic prles\ or a Protestant clergy-
man and family to the brick-carts, brick-fields,
grubbing-hoe, or the timber-carriage. The lower
class of convicts in these cargoes were mostly old
men, fit only for hut-keepers, to remain at home
and prevent robbery while the other inhabitants
of the hut were at labour, thus making good the
old proverb, ‘ Set a thief to catch a thief.’ ’’
* • •
Each officer had 10 assigned servants.
A letter to the Duke of Portland contains a state-
ment that assigned servants “ were allotted to
the service of convict nrostitute wom'n." In the
service of private masters convicts received such
bad treatment that the Government resented this
interference with its privileges, and an order was
issued to the effect that “ If any person should
beat or use their (sic) servants ill they will be
taken from them to Government labour, and the
offender dealt with according to their situations
in the colony.’’ But if any convict attempted to
work for himself while at assigned service, with a
view to improving his condition byand-bye, he
received the reward of his industry in the shape
of 100 lashes and 12 months in gaol. That
stopped him for the time. “ Magistrates,’
we read, “ would oblige one another as
employers in authorising the removal of ob-
noxious servants, or by inflicting lashes for
supposed disobedience of orders —an elastic charge
by which the poor fellow lost the benefit of his
fixity of tenure." Many men were kept In a state
of servitude long after the expiration of their sen-
tences. It was not until 1797 that the Secretary
of State promised that “ in future lists shall be
sent from England and Ireland of the terms of
sentence.” For the first two years not an item of
information on this subject was despatched with
the transports, and only Irregularly afterwards.
The fact proves rather conclusively that the
Government in England had little thought of its
outcasts as soon as it got them off its hands.
* * #
Perhaps the most painful thing in connec-
tion with this part of our history is the manner in
which Australian writers have cealt with it. The
fortunes that were made by the oppression and
oruelty of these early days have been worshipped,
and the deeds of the men who made them giozed
over. The unhappy wretches who became iheir
victims are passed over without a word of pity for
their sufferings, or of reprobation for the conduct
of those who caused them. Yet no class of men
ever called more strongly for reprobation. “It
would have been far more merciful,” says an eye-
witness of what he describes, “ to have hanged all
who violated the laws of their country, than to
have sent them out to New South Wales and its
dependencies, subject to the unmerciful treatment
of human tigers, who tortured or killed those
within their power according to the caprice of the
moment. I raw many a fine man die in misery,
inch by inch, from the oppression he experienced
—the most cruel of all deaths.” All this, and
more also —it is almost impossible to realise it!—
took place during year after year in sunny New
South Wales I
The Coming Queensland Elections
The elections in Queensland promise to result In
a snrprise. Almost all elections are a surprise,
and these will be so especially. A lew years ago,
Griffith went in on the democratic and retrench-
ment racket, while MTlwraith posed as the
Conservative successor of the “ Old Tory” party
and Palmer. He ran the country in the boom,
merrily and wastefnlly. Griffith came in with
the drought ard ran it more waatefully still.
M'llwraith legislated for the squatters. Griffith
was backed by Groom and the DarliDg Downs
selectors. The present Queensland Parliament
has run its full course, and it has done IP tie, save
break its pledges and play the devil with general
administration 1 And now, on the eve of a disso-
lution, Griffith, fallen into the sere and yellow
leaf, makes desperate bids for a return to power.
* # *
From the beginning of his political career. Sir
Thomas MTlwraith has been a consistent Pro-
tectionist, and has been waiting his time. He
said once, jears ago, that he felt it was utterly
useless at that time to advocate Protection. He
would not have found four followers in the House.
The tariff question excited no interest. The colony
was prosperous, and had an incalculable future
before it. The great cry was for emigrants.
To day all the la’-ge coaet-towns see swarmß of
unemployed mechanics and labourers watching,
with moody despair, the long train of English,
Scotch, and Irish, who poured off from the huge,
subsidized, B I. emigrant ships. The country no
longer subsists on raw material. Queenslanders
no longer are mere resident agents for London
importers. A civilised community, with all its
complex conditions and complex demands, rises to
its feet. MTlwraith would find more than four
men in the House to-day to vote for the national
cause, and the country is weary of Freetrade and
Griffith.
# # *
Griffith, for a great part of his political
career, has been an equally consistent Freetrader.
The Brisbane paper, of which he is part pro-
prietor, and whose policy he dictates, is
run by two Anglo - Australian ex - parsons
of the most virulent Freetrade, “ unlimited com-
petition, within and without,” species. One of
these is also Griffith’s Legislative Council
nominee. When Griffith went home to Eng-
land, at the end of the last session, he had just
begun to be anxious about the elections. His
overwhelming majorities were still unbroken, but
on all sides were signs of discontent. The North
was, of course, bitterly hostile throughout. The
Duttonian Land Bill was a frightful failure. Dut-
ton is a squatter with an amateurish “ sympathy”
with Democratic land aspirations. He used to
quote Henry George, but he neier understood
him. Democrats must never forget that the devil
can quote Scripture, and the landowners and
capitalists can distort even Karl Marx or
Henry George to suit their purpo e. The Bill
constructed by this fair-weather Democrat was at
once a fraud and an absurdity, although the Bris-
bane Courier professed to read Henry George's
theories between the lioes to the end. Tae capi-
talists of Brisbane did their best to raise the
“ Sooialism bogey,” and to frighten the masses.
But the Bill failed on its own demerits. No one
took any notice of it. Ic was born dead. Thus
the “ Darling Downs Democracy ” lost confidence,
and Groom began to get ready once more to
“ turn dog ’ upon his ch’ef.
* *- *
Griffith himself had never made a personal
friend. His contempt for his colleagues has not
only been shown everywhere, bub often actually
expressed. His temper was souriEg. The serene
Sam whom no one could “draw" began to be
irritable. He was burning the candle at both
ends. To keep up a large practice at the Bar,
boss a Government, and be a prodigy of minute
inspection in each public D apartment was telling on
him. On the top of this he went home.
* * *
“I think,” said Service, in Hobart, at the
Federal Council, “ the minds of all the members
of the Council, and tbe minds of all the colonies
in the Federation, will turn with one accord to the
central figure." The “oentral figure” was
Griffith, but it was his last appearance in that
character. Bub he was full of confidence then.
“ I, however, 1 ’ he said. “ am able to look forward
to continuing a member of the Council —for the
present at all events.” Sam was exuberant in
these days, and was still untainted by British
political corrupt ion. He said : “ I do not think
that it is in accordance with the spirit of the times
in these colonies, that we should contribute to the
revenue of Great Britain by a distinct money
payment .” And now—see how it has all changed.
* * *
In London be successfully “ did for” Separation
He quoted his overwhelming majority—the whole
House against nine ; but he did not state that,
with the exception of his own Attorney-General, ex-
parson Routledge, every representative of the
North was included in thatnine. In London he suc-
cessfully posed as the Queensland dictator, and
grovelled to Salisbury in consideration of his
acknowledging this. Salisbury, in return, ex-
torted an assent to Imperial Federationism, and
Griffith “ pledged the country," as he says, to
that very “distinct money-p ayment ” for naval
defence which he has so often and so lately im-
pugned. Salisbury taught him something else,
too, and let him into a secret. The British Con-
servatives were once more going to “dish” the
Liberals by sprlngit g Protection upon them as a
Democratic cry. Griffith returned home deter-
mined that he would not be “dished” in this way
—nay, that he would “ dish ’’ MTlwraith, who
is returning to political life, and make a further
Democratic appeal still, if necessary, by proposing
a land-tax.
* * *
When he came back he found things worse than
he expeoted. His great whipper-in, Bulcock,
the soi-disant Schnadhorst of Liberal Queens-
land, told him that the whole camp was in revolt.
Griffith at once sprung his mine. He spoke
openly of Protection and of a land-tax. His
Bquatting pseudo-democrats answered with their
heels. Dickson, the only man of brains in his
Ministry, resigned the Treasury. Dickson is an
auctioneer, and his clients are squatters, and all
squatters know that a land-tax is a crime, and
they would die rather than patronise a member of
a Government that advocated it. Macdonald
Patterson, a lawyer, for similar reasons followed
suit. Griffith did not waver. He mooted his
tax proposals ; was defeated, and signified his in-
tention of going back on all his past record and
appealing to the country on the stolen platform of
Protection, coupled with a land-tax with which
he hoped to propitiate the long-forgotten Demo-
cracy.
* * *
The Protectionists, however, decline to follow
him. Sir Thomas MTlwraith Ip, more than
ever, their natural leader since he has consented
to sink his views with regard to coloured labour,
and they distrusted Griffith's eleventh-hour
conversion, and refused to take the battered,
worn-out idol of the Freetrade party for their
divinity. The ma°ses, who once looked on Grif-
fith as their chief, have been alienated by a Imp-
course of treachery ard blundering. The
“Liberal” Premier has a mania for drawirg-up
bills—he took about 16 of them on one of his tours
that he might draft clauses and regulations as he
went along—and he has hampered every industiy
by a thousand paltry rf strict ions. A swarm of
kanaka inspectors and i ffldals of all descriptions
have harassed the Northern planters into utter
ruin; the pearl-fishers 1 ave been swamped with a
multitude of b; e-laws and petty dieabill ies ; and.
finding that the country had grown weary of
empty law-making, and of empty lawyers,
whose one great boaßt it was that they
passed more Acts in a given time than
any previous Government, he resolved to at
least ensure that his opponents should have
no such lease of power as he has himself enjoyed,
j Hence the introduction by a defeated Government
that had already made its appeal to the country,
and only retained office to pass the Estimates—
hence the impudent introduction of a Triennial
Bill that would revolutionise political procedure
in Queensland ! Add to this an attempt by such
a Government to foist on the country a “ distinct
money payment" for naval “Imperialistic" de-
fence, denounced by this Griffith in person only
a year ago, and even the lawyers and parsons who
made him what he is, must admit that (saving
always Sir Henry Parkes) Sir Samuel Griffith
must take the cake for political cheek, “ naked
and not ashamed.”
• * •
The election will be a surprise. No on© really
knows the state of the constituencies. So many
I forces are at work there, and Protection is not the
least of them. There are signs of a rudimentary
“ Labour Party,” after the model of the American.
I One thiDg is certain: The tariff question will be
I mooted, and energetically mooted. Now is the
I time for Protectionists to draw together and or-
ganise. Capital runs the Daily Press, and in
I Queensland as in New South Wales Democracy
and Protection are unrepresented.
CORRESPONDENCE
John B. (Geachville) : Ab you observe in your
own original mother tongue, “ What the dooce is in a name?' 1
There are only nine letters in anyhow....F ank C
(Sydcey): Poems too pensive ard sad altogether “Memo,
ries," " Thoughts cf Other Days.” and the like, are played
out, and “Evangeline" is a girl who has been dished up till
she is limp and faded... .East Maitland: The reasons which
led to the dismissal of Colonel Valentine Bakfr were suffi-
ciently explained in last issue of Tub Bucletin. If you
want it put in a sentence —the gallant officer was travelling
by train along with a girl, and had a lark on the rolling-
stock... Only a Comp. (Brisbane): For our own part, we
don’t care a kettle-mender’s blessing about the young drama-
tist in question. If he oomes to Fydney, we will judge his
play on its own merits, whether he is a dook or a nigger....
J.P.8.: Verses under consideration. Seem pretty good, but
the metre bumps a little here and there... .Amateur (Rock-
hampton) : Thanks for cutting W.K. (Harden): The row
is so abjectly local that we would rather let the two one.
horse townships fight it out. Why don’t you sail in and
win? Oyster Johnnie: “ Strabismusaed” is high-toned
English for “ boss-eyed.” Will hunt up sketch or perish in
the attempt.. ..R.F. (Arncliffe): Thanks. May prove use
ful... .Subscriber (Wangaratta): Only a poor printer's error
at best P.E.N. (Longmuir): Thants—Finoola (Bris.
bane): We don’t take much interest in Masonry, or in any
other institution which is so anxious to have a large-sized
swell at the head of its affairs, and we don't care a straw
whether Wales calls himself a mason or a biicklayer. Only
we are of opinion that he wouldn’t make much of a brick-
layer.. . .L.D. (Kyneton) : Your little pome, “The Tear,” is
now tore and in the waste-paper basket. Also, we don’t think
much of your “Thought.” “Hark, I tear a poet’s voice !’’
you say. We don't.... New South Welshman (Otago):
“Dibbstralia” is original and striking, but we have studied
new names for N.S.W. till our reason is tottering in its
tabernacle, and we have resolved to give the subject best....
J.M. (Beaudesert, Q.): Poem is thin, but might be thinner.
The editor of that paper never wrote it. In matters
of verse he is not fit to propel victuals to a bruin....
Sicolna (Hinton): Will read your yarn with care Walker
(Oamaru): Your contribution will be carefully contem-
plated.... A. R. (Mossman’s Bay): Your screed, entitled
“ Are we to allow the Mongolian Deck to have its deep-
rooted ard injurious effect on Australian soil?” is duly
received Title a little too short, perhaps, but if we publish
we will manage to spread it 0ut.... L.M. (Albury): No, it
def sn’t follow, and it wouldn’t matter if it did J' Forster
(Collingwood): Please send no more poetry, as our ash-
heap-remover declines to contract for the exportation of
spring verse....Mahoney: We never stated that Henry
George was a Socialist. He denounced the Chicago anar-
chists, and his attitude towards Socialism has caused a big
split in the labour party of America Paul Pry :We don’t
know, and what is more we don’t 'want to. We
have the feeblest interest in tobacco and no interest at
ail in wagers. The last we made was with a China-
man named How Sli, and we won. He paid like a
Caucasian, but the notes were counterfeit.... Anti-Parkes ;
It is a notorious fact that Parkes was a Chartist journeyman
button-maker, but he wasn't much of a Chartist, and the
buttons he-made were very poor affairs. He was a clumsy
workman, and he has transferred his clumsiness to politics
....Jossite: Your verses are dulcet mush.... Mary M.
(Surry Hills): Rubbish ! The craze against fortune-telling
syrens is almost as silly as the fortune-telling. There will
always be demented donkeys anxious to lift the curtain cf
futurity. They certainly ought to pay for the privilege... „
H.W.F. (Northcote, Vic.): Thanks for your kind remarks.
You are evidently a level-headed man, and we hail you as a
brother.... John 8. (Marrickville): Have dealt with matter
in this is3ue T.H.W. (Albury): Will consider next week.
Pta’myell Giiffifch la building a gorgeous
new Treasury structure at Brisbane to hold the
deficib. The present establishment is fairly
crowded out with shortage, and tbe officials in
charge will feel much relieved when they see the
financial vacuum removed to more commodious
premises.
Even a large and flourishing business in
schrapps, with sundry £1 orders enclosed in each
day’s output, has its drawbacks. A large section
of the community don’t know a £1 order when
they see it, and, consequently, Messrs. Wolfe and
Sons issued a number of these cheques marked
“ specimen copy.” This has opened a new field
of usefulness to some one who wants to be lagged,
and the words in question having been removed
with acid he is now going round trying to oolleob
about £lOOO or so from the oompany. So far, It la
i satisfactory to know that he hasn't got it,


SUNDRY BHOWS.
THEATRE Royal—“ Robinson Crusoe ’■ n .,., n ....1. 15.
Criterion Theatre.—" Little Jack Sheppard". ...» „
Her Majesty's Theatre.— “ln The Ranks„
Opera House— All Star Novelty Combination ...... „
Alhambra Musio Hall— Sacred Oonoert ........ ,
Alhambra Musio Hall— Minstrelsy .... ........... ■■
Academy— Maccabe ——- h
The coming Centenary is already casting
Its maUgn shadow over the Sydney theatres, and
the managers are steadily pounding away at
dramas which seem in their antiquity to date
from the days when Solomon perspired upon bis
throne in Jerusalem, and paralysed the fly which
settled on his nose while he guessed awkward
conundrums in that ancient dirty city. In a few days
the whole population will be drunk—weepinv
drunk, and drivelling about the mother country,
and the noblemen of Australia will each fix
a new woe den leg on to his family
crest, and then the theatres will be
crowded by an audience that will be too
far gone to understand anything, and a show
in which one man painted blue goes about the
stage on all-fours, while another whacks him into
activity with a fence-rail, will be written up by
inebriated critics as a new opera. Pending this,
George Rignold continues to play “ In the Ranks ”
at Her Maiesty’s, and regularly every evening the
uncle from abroad come sin and rescues George
from destitution. “Robin-
son Crusoe,” filled with
wonderful things that
ain’t so, still puts its foot
in the eye of poetry and
doubles up the spine of
sense and grammar at
Sydney Royal, and the
menagerie sits up on end
and wails forth weird
dogsologiea. If the author
of this pantomime in-
tends to write any more,
we can only express our
feelings towards him by
bidding him depart to a
place which a great many
people are told to go to,
beoause the man who
tells them to go there
can bid them go to it
with greater economy of
expression than if he had
told them to go to any
other place, and concern-
ing which he has the
satisfaction of knowing
that when they have
gone there they are a
great deal worse off than
if they had gone any-
where else, which it
would have taken a
longer time to tell them
to go to, and which it is
probable they would
never have arrived at
anyhow. The place which
we want the author to go
to will not be further
described in these
oolumns, but if there is
any justice in this world
he will know all about it
when he gets there.
Meanwhile, during the
interval which must
elapse before “ Robinson
Crusoe” goes to the place
to which we have thus
briefly alluded under cir-
cumstances which almost
impelled us to the use of
a profane expression
which has more meaning
for its size than any other word in the English
language, business continues to prosper at the
Royal.
*# # #
The convalescent Brough wi'l shortly take
up his old role of Jonathan Wild, at Sydney
Criterion, which is a cause for congratulation, as
Mr. Brown has been steadily deteriorating. Dur-
ing the last week he has infused too much of the
silent unassuming chump into the character,
while those characteristics in Jonathan’s reputa-
tion which unfitted him for keeping a pig have
been a good deal overlooked. The rocent Wild
was not a man who went about uttering heavy
truths, as reputable eye-witnesses, who were
on intimate terms with the deceased, and
who have no desire to blacken his charac-
ter are prepared to testify upon affidavit
before any respectable justice of the peace. At
the Gaiety, “ The World Against Her” is doing
its third week, and “Faust” is m preparation.
A new and reliable perdition is being constructed
under the stage for that gentleman to drop into,
and every precaution will be taken to prevent the
lost souls getting out when the lid is taken off.
Any who should escape will be seized and thrown
in again before they have time to molest the
audience.
## # #
Frank Clark’s clever variety show is still
fin command at the Sydney Opera House with a
•slightly varied programme, and the fun goes fast
and furious. The “great four” do the same
ancient business, and indulge in labial elongation
-over the same white-headed decrepit gags, and
the audience grins in Christian unison. Then
follow the “Dummies” with their concentrated
impertinence to the counterfeit presentment of El
Maestro Allpress, and his demoniac fiddle.
Mademoiselle Garretta continues to charm
the audience with her bevy of performing pigeons,
and Wilson and Cameron stand on their india-
rubber heads as of yore. The whole show, as in
the Bnowy-craniumed past, then glides through
itself in the person of Miss May Cameron, gets its
legs and its arms bewilderingly mixed up, and
manages to evolve order from chaos by a brain-
splitting complication of supernatural wriggles.
Next, Messrs. Field and Hanson play fantastic
tricks with every variety of musical instruments,
from a deal table to a jam-tin, and the whole
affair leaps into space from a trapeze in the
agile personality of Ouda.
## # *
The business at Coogee Aquarium is in-
creasing daily, and the little township by the sea
is swamped by all Sydney and its best girl who go
out on a boiling summer day to view the proceed-
ings. An excellent variety entertainment is in
progress every afternoon, and among the other
attractions is a gentleman who shoots apples off
his wife’s head, and, so far, has failed to shoot the
lady. This apple trick is generally performed by
firingoffagun loaded with blank cartridge while the
apple is hoisted away by means of a thread, but
the Coogee marksman seems to neglect this pre-
caution, and the partner of his loys and sor-
rows haa to bake her ohance of losing the top
of her head. *
* # # #
Mr. Hall closed his season at Sydney
Royal Standard on Saturday with a bene lit,
“ Across the Continent " being revised for the oc-
casion. The wheezy old melodrama was as loud
and as shaky as ever, and the chief character was
as good, and the rest of the caBt as bad, as on any
previous occasion. Mr. Maccabe also finishes his
career at Sjdney Academy this week, and more
Federal Minstrels are announced as looming in
the middle distance.
* * # #
All the old Melbourne bills are being
cheerfully renewed this week. Sweet “ Sophia ”
trips along in her No. 2 shoes, at the natty little
Bijou, and the Royal pantomime is sending the
local children off their innocent dots. Very likely
this is a glorious entertainment, full of healthy
fun and melting pathos. The nymphs who look
down from giddy heights upon the Pearly Grottoes
of Everlasting Bliss, and wave their silvery wands
at the baffled green-eyed gnomes, may be those
very spirits that smile upon the children's slum-
bers and whisper of the Better Land. Let us,
dear friends, accept pantomimes with the faith of
childhood, and remember that they come bub once
a year.
WARNING TO WOULD-BE CANDIDATES.
ALLEGED POLITICIAN DIBBS (loq.) “THIS ONE’LL DO. THE GLOVES WILL FETCH THE DARLING
POINTERS. THE OTHER ONE, AH! IS TOO VULGAR.”
The Melbourne Opera House people are
metaphorically sitting on the prostrate body of
vanquished criticism, and counting up the millions
made out of “Current Cash." This remarkable
work has held the gods enthralled for four long
weekß, but on Saturday something “ even more
better” takes its place. The Italian Opera season,
wfcich has somewhat outlived popularity, dies on
Saturday. To-night (Thursday), Conductor Hazon
brandishes the stick for his own immediate
benefit.
## # #
Mr. Alfred Plumpton’s Italian opera, “ I
Due Student!," was produced at Melbourne
Alexandra the other night. The music is pleasing
enough, but lacks variety and soul. We are
whales for soul.
## # #
A Yankee criticism of Mrs. Langtry’s
acting in her death scene of “As in a Looking-
Glass ” :
Her contortions here warrant the inference that she has
taken a water-melon, rather than chloral. She hops about
from chair to chair, with her hands upon the pit of her
stomach, like a small boy who has partaken too freely of
green apples; drops upon a sofa and tears the plush with her
teeth; gallops three or four times around the room calling
for Algy; and th-n falls over a trick-chair that comes down
like a combination bed, and expires just as Algy rushes in to
stand over her with one arm stretched out at an angle of 90
degrees, and the other at 70 degrees, thus completing what
the programme says is an “ affecting tableau.”
*# # #
Hugo’s Buffalo Minstrels are prospering
at Brisbane, Walter Keen especially being a
powerful eucocss. When Mr. Leitch’s “ Harbour
Lights ” Company was doing business at Gisborne
(N.Z.), a local paper, which hadn't received an
“ad stated that It would publish the name of
everybody who paid for a front seat while his bills
were waiting to be liquidated. The result showed
that there were only six people in Gisborne who
had paid their debts. George Masgrove has come
back from England. So has Nellie Stewart
George says he would rather live in England
on £lO a week than in Australia on £lOO.
Wby the dcoce doesn't he go and do it?
All Wellington (N Z ) bas gone a-rynkynge, and
the new Columbia rink Is taking £5O a day.
Buffalo William is losing £175 a day at Birming-
ham. Rat and dog fights are the only things they
care for there. They were playing “ Uncle Tom ”
at Auckland (N.Z.) Opera House and an aged
creature on her last legs represented Emmeline.
Auctioneer: ‘'Now, gentlemen, the quadroon
girl Emmeline, 15 years of age ■” Voice from
the pit : * ‘ Oh, here, I say, go on! " Zulu Thomp-
son, a genuine white man, passed in his
checks at Wellington (N Z.), December 27.
Bland Holt Is his own Judas and carries ihs bag.
It has grown so heavy in N.Z. that he has quite a
list to starboard. When the late Alice May was
in Melbourne many years ago she had a blear-
eyed poodle of vicious habits, and the dawg ate
part of a dramatic critic in Collins-street. He
tried to brain the animal with his gamp, but Alioe
saved it from destruction. That was long, long
ago, but the critic slated "her for it to the day
of her death. In a Queensland town, the other
day a gay and fresh reporter came to act as escort
home to two of the ladles of the Harding-PJaisted
Opera Company. Jimmy Macmahon threw him
out, and then he came in again, and biffed Joe
Macmahon on the “ bugle.” Joe also threw him
out, and he now writes that the ladies of the
company are all over 50. When, at Sydney
Royal, the other night, the faithful poodle came
on dressed for a journey—ln tall hat, gamp, and
coat —a fair and dicoUttee damsel didn't recognise
the Intelligent beast, and said to her companion,
“ Oh, Charlie ! here’s Sir Henry Parkes.”
Dear Bulletin, — In your last issue 1
notice a paragraph under “ Personal Items,”
about poor old Father Tim M'Carthy, where ib
appears that the genial and beloved priest was in
his cups. Permit me to correct this statement.
It was at the time of the Pope’s death that Father
Tim was selected to dilate upon his goodness, his
sermon being duly edited by Archbishop Vaughan.
When the Father appeared in the pulpit, how-
ever, instead of speaking on the subieot In ques-
tion, he cursed the Archbishop In such a discourse
as that venerated priest had never heard before.
Dr. Vaughan sent one of the boys who swing the
incense to tell Father Tim to stop, but he replied
audibly, “ I won’t stop, and you oan send as many
boys as you like to me.” The fact was that the
genial and charitable old man was mad. Some
time before this he had been eccentric, but this
seems to have been his end. Subsequently, as
you say, he was sent home never to return.
Yours, Soltcitus.
The latest news regarding the widows for
whom the Bull! Fund was so liberally subscribed
is that the first quarter's miserable allowance is
overdue and remains unpaid. Meanwhile the
Wallsend miners have resolved to guarantee £3OO
for the prosecution of claims against the Bull!
Company. Possibly there is a connection between
these two circumstances.
The long-talked off “mounted sword con-
test ” came off at Bondi Aquarium on Saturday in
the presence of a large and hypochondriac crowd.
The two combatants, Captain Jennings, who lays
claim to the “championship of the world”—
almost everybody is champion of something now-
adays, and N.S.W. comes to the front with the
champion dirt eater if it can't do anything else—
and Sergeant Donovan, appeared in leathern
armour, and straightway began to whack at each
other. Each touch on head, arms, or body
counted a point, and there was little scope
for scientific walloping—whenever one com-
batant got near enough to the other
he solemnly clouted him and went back to his
corner. Sometimes one would stop with his
sword held straight out in front of him, and wait
for his foe to fall against it; sometimes they both
rushed at each other and spanked each other on
the brains; occasionally one would miss his enemy
and, while tearing pasthim, would hear his foe's ar-
tillery come down on his back, Donovan, especially,
getting it very warm on the hinder part; and
every few minutes one or other would remain
in the air for a moment and then come
down on the verdure with a concussion and
smother a groan. The combatants came down
a good deal of toner than they got up again,
and they came down very fast and got up very
slowly. The rules of the contest prohibited either
warrior from hitting a man when he was down,
and, as the grass was cool and grateful to the part
of the soldier that he hit it with, the fallen hero
would lie for a minute, and ask himself where he
had got to. Latterly, however, the ground began
to get bard through being hit eo much, and then
the contest was brought to a close. Jennings—a
veteran of the France-German war—would prob-
ably have won and retained the championship under
ordinary circumstances, but he was weak from
fever and went down easily, and Donovan, who
was considerably smashed up in the Crimea, came
off best by seven whacks against six. The
stakes were £5O a-side, with £250 added by the
Bondi Aquarium Company. Larry Foley after-
wards offered £125 in prizes for a series of contests,
and Donovan was backed to the extent of £lOO for
another fight wi.h Jennings, so that the comba-
tants will shortly be knocked about tome more.
The point of the following, cat from an
English paper, lies in the Australian application
thereof : —
I want to trace the revival of public interest in prize-
fighting, to show what it all amounts to. Jem Smith calls
himsslf Champion of England. In a communication he was
kind enough to allow to be published a few weeks ago, he
admitted that for sparring on music-hall stages and places of
public amusement, he was in receipt of a salary of £6O a
week. He is the best-made man I ever saw, and his enter-
tainment is graceful, scientific, and well worth seeing. The
reason why he is Champion of England—an empty title—is
that no one disputes his right to call himself so, or anything
else he chooses; in fact, I can see no objection if he styles
himself Archbishop of England, and provided that
thereby he induces people to pay ta see his show,
he is surely justified in the harmless advertisement. But
it was natural that Jem Smith should not be allowed
the whole field to himself. When Irving became a success,
Wilson Barrett cropped up ; so soon as Mrs. Langtry suc-
ceeded Mrs. Brown-Potter adopted the stage as a profes-
sion. After the champion pugilist of England proved a
draw at the music-halls, Mr. “ Pony ” Moore, of the Moore
and Burgess Mins'sels, went to America, and found an op-
position champion to Jem Smith. It is to this state of things
that we are indebted for the privilege of welcoming Jake
Kilrain amongst us. While Smith is exhibiting and draw-
ing in the shillings at the Aquarium, Kilrain is exhibiting
and drawing in the dollars at St. James's Hall. While
Smith's friends are drinking and swaggering at one bar,
Kilrain’s friends are drinking and bragging at another bar.
Bo far, there is a legitimate trade com petition, and as most
people interested in boxing will go to both entertainments,
each competitor is indebte Ito the other for so much adver-
tisement. A match has been made, ostensibly for a thou-
sand pounds aside and the Championship of the World.
Smith and Kilrain are to meet somewhere and sometime
under the old prize-ring rules, and fight for the title and
the money and also for the possession of a diamond belt
presented by the enterprising editor of a low American
journal. It has been pretty generally circulated that the
fight will take place in Spain—the locality where we build
our imaginary castles—and all sorts of rumours are abroad
as to each man’B capabilities to beat the other I have even
heard of some betting on the match. Now, to my mind, it is
pretty clear that this is all rubbish. Smith and Kilrain will
never fight in Spain or elsewhere, and for a very obvious rea-
son. So long as Smith calls himself Champion, people will
pay to see him spar and he will continue to earn his £6O a
week. So long as Kilrain is matched to fight the Champion,
and professes his ability to beat him, people will pay to see
him spar, and compare his style and form with that of the
Champion. If Smith beats Kilrain, all is up with the
latter’s shilling-getting capacity; if Kilrain beats Smith,
down goes the latter, and his means of livelihood have
departed. Under the circumstances, to imagine that these
men are going to risk so much for nothing at all, is to
imagine that they are both fools thirsting for gore. Bosh !
They are both showmen, and very clever showmen, too.
If these men were foolish enough to want to fight, there are
dozens of country gentlemen who would find them a safe and
suitable place of combat in their private grounds, where
there would be no chanoe of police intervention. 1 heard a
well-known nobleman make an offer of such a one to Jem
Smith’s manager on Thursday. It was not acoepted. A
Bataille en Espagnc is the long and short of it. Kilrain
exhibits, wherever he goes, the diamond belt, which is sup-
posed to be fought for. This Smith objects to. Being a
part of the stake, he contends it should be deposited with
the stakeholder. But Smith is wrong. The bait need not be
relinquished until the fight is about to begin. As this will
probably be never in this country, Kilrain will take it home
with him when the exoitement of his presenoe here has died
out, and when the ruffians and rioters who have oome to the
surface owing to the current craze, have found their way
back again to Birmingham. Whitechapel, and the Dials.
At Princess Theatre, Melbourne, they are playing j
“ Ermim'e ”
(Suit the accent to the rhythm) and the thiDg ap-
pears to gee;
As opera or comedy but little claim has it
To rank among the miraoles of melody or wit.
But, better than the pieces which a culchawed bard
admires.
Are those other master-pieces that the treasurer
requires;
So, what’s the use of saying that Ermiwia’s poor
and thin,
If it tempts the eager multitudes to dissipate their
tin ?
This show is kept agoing by a funny pair of lags,
Who dress in garments snavelled from a viscount’s
carpet bags;
They masquerade as barons and bewitch the titled
tarts —
But there's precious little funniness in any other
parts
Composer Jacobowski is a melancholy Pole,
With mem'ries of contemporary music in his
eoul ;
Yet, instead of leaving airs in their entirety
alone,
He mixes ’em together with some rubbish of his
own.
So, in this comic opera (a very common thing).
It generally happens we are saddest when they
sing ;
But if the ballads bore us, and the situation drags,
The show is kept agoing by a funny pair of lags.
Some minor bits of business smart management
betray—
Lovers enter, sing, and exit in a human kind of
way;
The ladies of the chorus, too, are anything but
hags,
And the show is kept agoing by a funny pair of
lags.
Miss Leonora Braham, and the tenor-voiced
L’umane,
Struggle bravely with their troubles, though the
struggle is in vain ;
Maggie Moore’s as good as ever, but she’s not
about for long;
While massive Alice Barnett doesn’t favour with
a song.
Clever folks like Johnny Wallace, Ida Osborne,
and a lot
Of others take their cues, but never get upon the
spot;
They haven't any musio and they haven't any
gags;
But the show is kept agoing by a funny pair of
lags.
Then, hey! for Billy Elton and for Howard Ver-
non, too,
Who clutch this comic opera and fairly pull it
through;
So nimble in their naughtiness-ln wickedness
suoh wags—
That show would fall to pieces if it wasn't for the
lags.
Only a Soa.
“ A party of Irish immigrants arrived at
a Melbourne wharf the other day. The first thing
one of them, a young man, did was to open his
box and take oub a hard-baked sod which he gave
to an old woman (evidently the mother of some of
them), who received them on the wharf. She
kissed it and ‘ blessed herself.’ It was parb and
parcel of the grand ould sod to which her heart-
strings clung."—Melbourne Newspaper.
It’s only a sod, but ’twill break me ould heart
Nigh hardened wid toilin’ and carin’,
And make the ould wounds in it tingle and smart.
It’s only a sod, but it’s parcel and part
Of strugglin’, sufferin’ Erin.
lb’s only a sod, bub it rakes the ould pain—
The ould love in me heart that still lingers,
That Time has been soothing and docth’ring in
vain;
And now he must soothe it and heal it again
Wid his kindly and gentle ould fingers.
lb's only a sod, but I see a big ship
Through the gallopin’ waters come tearin’,
And a lass that looks back on the horizon dip,
Wid eyes full of tears and a thrimblin’ lip,
On the last that she saw of ould Erin.
lb’s only a sod, but wid care it will keep
Till me brooms and me brushes are Bilint—
Pat it into me arms ere they bury me deep,
And tell them old Biddy the “ slavey ” does sleep
'Neath a sod from the bogs of ould Irlint.
HENRY A, LAWSON.


PEPPER
AND
SALT
There is a boss-eyed Chinaman who runs
a hamand-beef shop in an up-countoy town, and
fills in his time by leading a wild, wild life in the
vegetable business. Assisted by a deputy Chow,
he vends the crinkly cabbagce intheeirly morn-
ing, also the olange and the stlawheliy in their
season, and then all day he supplies ham and eggs
to the public, and at night he sleeps under the
counter. His next reighbour was, until recently,
a Scotch publican, and the o’her night the latter
gentleman came in in an excited condition and de-
manded supper. Somehow, there cane about a
disagreement between the pair, which culminated
in the foreigner saying : “ Publican man a'n’t no
good,” and then the hotelkeeper went to work
and wrecked the establishment, and left frag-
ments of pigtail, ham, fractured eggs, ard beef
visible on the horizon, while the assaulted shop
keeper boo-hooed in Chinese sealed on the ruins
of the premises. But he gathered himself up and
had a long and artistic revenge. First he sued
the hotelkeeper for the value of the «mash, and
added on a bottle of Chinese medicine, pries
£3 10s., which he swore the publican had
poured down his back. Then he loafed
about at night and poisoned the publi-
can’s dog, and when the beer-sel!er threw the
corpse into his shop, he complained to the
police. Nobody ever knew how it was that the
dead dog was afterwards found flrating in a cask
of beer in the hotel cellar, but there it certainly
was, and at the very moment when the dripping
carcase was brought upstairs by the tail a Chinese
face looked in at the bar with an unfa’ homable
Chinese smile, and a hated voice asked mildly,
“Publican fellow whisky man, him wantee any
good pie ?” Then there
was a rather nice-looking
Bridget in the hotel
kitchen, with whom the
publican had long con-
templated matrimony,
but just as he bad made
up his mind to the act,
she eloped with the vin-
dictive Chinaman and
swore to love and honour
his yellow carcase for
evermore. There were
great rejoicings at the
wedding, and somebody
threw a 200 skunk power
stink-pot through the
hotel window and made
the bar smell like 1000
poleca's for a week
afterwards. The publi-
can sallied out and cap-
tured a Chow, whom he
thought to be the off nd-
er. “11l teach ye to
throw yer foreign inven-
tions into ma hocse, ye
miserable caterwaulin’
vagabone I’’ he said,
sternly, and he was as
good as his word, for he
held the Asiatic under
the pump and pumped on
him for a quarter of an
hour. He felt batter after
this, but his satisfaction
died away next morning,
when he found his horse
painted bright green, and
hisnewdogcf a sky-blue
tint. He washed the
horse and the dog, and
offered a reward for th s
capture of the wretoh
who was responsible, and
the very next day the
dog rc appeared in start-
ling yello w colours This
finished lim. He. felt that the enemy was too
numerous and too persistent, and he sold out his
business and left. A few sympathising friends
escorted him to the coach, and bade him farewell,
but the other passengers struck on account of the
odour of that Chinese stink pot, which still clung
to his clothes, and he had to get out and walk.
• * *
Ont in the colonial wilds the debt-collector
has a bully time, and he earns his oats amid much
tribulation. One miserable sufferer, who gains a
precarious chow-chow by gathering in the rates
for an up-country board of aldermen, states, with
much profanity, that the following letter Is the
net proceeds of six weeks’ hard labour :
Mr. B left this place gone away not hear any more no
nothing about this never new Mr. B never herd of him
don’t beleave thir is any boddy of that name, besides Mr.
B never lived hear and noboddy ever herd of him no
good of sending hear I no nothing about it and don't wanter
no so you nead not send hear to me any moar. P.B —I
aint Mr. B an never was.
This letter leaves nothing to the imagination and
treats the subject all round with the stern <m-
phasis of a Roman father. It doesn’t state where
Mr. B is, bub it points out distinctly that he
isn't “ hear,” that he has left and is gone, that the
writer isn’t him, that there is no such person and
never was and never will be, that he never was
“hear," and that though the faot of his having 1 ft
might imply that he had once been in the vicinity,
nobody ever heard of him or ever will hear of him,
and that the correspondent won’t be bothered
about him either now or hereafeer. As a model
of comprehensive conciseness, it deserves a place
In every Government office or other lunatic
asylum or place for impoundirg stray asses, and
even Abigail might take a hint from it when next
he has a “ minit ’ to compound, or wants to draft
a “Rabit" Act.
* * *
This is a story of blighted hopes, dashed
affections, frozen-tood misery, anguish, and dark,
moaning, cavernous despair. It is a tale cf the
horrors of real life, and the grim facts on which
it is built transpired only last week in a small,
bucolic Victorian township. The Mogul of that
turnip-rearing hamlet is a fat, bulgy man who
runs a flour-mill and wallows in family pride—
his ancestors, we believe, mashed carrots for the
Conqueror—and he is possessed of a pretty
daughter and enough money to fill a tank. The
young ledy, on the other hand, is slim and
ethereal —* pensive, clinging creature, with a big
dark oje and a mountain torrent of gash, a-.d she
has read enough London Journals and yellow-
backed novels, filled with dukes who brush their
hair in boudoirs with two golden-backed brushes,
to block a Btreet. She is soaked with sentiment
and reeking with romance, and every time a high-
collared dude conus along who starches his mous-
tache and curls his balr with a hot nail, and wears
an atmosphe e of langour, “ haw,” and sucked
walking cane, she pours out at his feet the
wealth of her fresh young htat. She has
been taken in again aid again by barbers,
French cooks, and young men in the ribben
department, but the prosy oil parent ha 3 cut up
rough every time. He hv resolved that she shall
marry a solid end weal hy pert on who3e front
name is Hez?kiah,and he dedica'es h'alife to cast-
ing the gloom of a c’.ub over the gay yonng men
who have an eye on his daughter and his cash,
and bruises their tendered feelings with a bit cf a
stick These are rongh tin 63 for both him and
the girl. Late at night she rehearses Romeo and
Jul et at the window, and then he wakes at her
impassioned accents and pokes about in the gloom
of the garden with a log in search of the other
fe'low. But some three months ago a fresh young
man took cba T ge of the local post and telegraph
tfflee. He was tall and willowy, grew a perfect
love of a moustache, and was just too elegant for
anything. He met the miller’s daughter— it was
a ca 36 of mutual irretrievable mash on first sight,
and they met again too numerous to mention, and
at last, in a moment of blissful enthus’asm, the
lovers planned an elorement. No ordinary, vul-
gar flitting wonld suit the gushing lady —she in-
tended to flee in style, by the light of the mcon,
via a knotted rope, and to have a carriage wait-
ing a drugged dog, apathetic letter, and all the
accessories and lime-light effects peculiar to a
recherche tkedaddle. Dre arrangements were
made, and the night of the ship arrived. The plans
and specifications cf the flit reflected credit upon
the designer, and all wonld have passed off wiih
eclat, doubtless, had not Romeo made one
little slip—the hot-blooded youth turned up drunk,
firmly but gently drunk ; and, not content with
te’ng drunk, he took a bottle with h : m Promptly
at the call of time, the flour-miller’s only chi d
threw up her chamber-window, and let out a rope
—lt would have been much more convenient had
she sneaked down stairs, and slipped out by the
back-door, but that did not suit her poetic nature.
Whilst the maid was securing her means of
escape. Romeo down in the garden was drinking
her health ; but presently, hoping to hasten
“Wanted boys for feeders and llyers.” —Advertisement in Daily Paper.
a climax, he advanced to the front door, and
began to pound the panels with the bottle, at
the same time howliDg hilariously : “Whersh me
lady lovsh — hie —ole copper-top ? Fesh her out —
fesh out me sweet charmersh —h ic —me soft
gazsllesh, fesh her out, yer piebald, old misersh—
hie—elseh I’ll puncher head 1” At the first sound
of the onslaught, the fair flitter, who was hanging
on to the rope, uttered a loud, long wail and let
go her grip ; but, her clothe 3 catching on a spike
in the wall, she hung suspended, screaming. The
lover continued to bang the door, and enthu-
siastically demand his daisy and his heart’s
delight; and, in response to his appeals, the
miller presently appeared armed with a larg ■> jug
Just then a serving man came hurrjing around
b e house, accompanied by a rake and a deg, and
followed by the female servants. Then the
battle began ; the miller, the man-servant, the
maidservant, and the deg all went for Romeo, and
tried to plunge clubs and gardening implements
into him, and Romeo fought like a drayload of
hyaenas for 15 rounds, at the end of which he fled
over the garden-wall. Then the miller fetched a
ladder, and took his shrieking daughter down by
the hair, and cuffed her ears several times. This
subdued her a good deal, and she to shortly to
wed the dull and prosy Hezekfah, who is a man
that won’t stand any foolishness.
* * *
A Jingo mob, at dirty little Dover, snow-
balled Gladstone —
Foolish Minnie Grant, housemaid, in
the employ of a Melbourne barber, has done hor-
self to death, all on account of Mr. Pain’s fire-
works. Miunie made arrangements to en joy th-'
fiery festival on New Year's Nigh’’, bub master
and missus being on the same tack, Minnie was
requested to stay at home. Under these circum-
stances, there was nothing left for the serving
maid but death itself. She plunged into the
Yarra, and was soon En a better place. Poor
girl! we will let off a harmless squib to her
memory:—
The locusts are eating everybody otit of
house and home in Victoria, so they are going to
exterminate the "pes's" with on a fell swoop
and a horse-roll e l- . It seems our national song-
bird lays its eggs in the grass, and that a man —by
crawling on his stomach with a re agnlfying glass
fer sixteen miles with the thermometer rising
can discover the exact spot where, perhaps, three
locusts are in course of erection. Then he must
mark the spot with a sapling, and go back for tho
roller. The track may not be wide enough to
carry the roller, but the exterminator must be
ready to fell and stump on the shortest notice.
When he gets back to ihe larvae (which is prob
ably some time next day) he must rush violently
to and fro for some time until the embryo grass-
eaterr have died unnatural deaths. Then he can
go home if he is strong enough, and listen as he
goes to the deafening roar of the enemy in the
waving gum-trees with a victor's smile. We are
a little hazy as to which side wears the victor’s
smile—but the grin in question is around some-
where.
* * *
Baron Brassey has informed a London in-
terviewer that he “detected the germs of ‘dis-
loyalty ’ among a certai n section of the Australian
population." That's the ljnx eyed noblemans
wily way of indicating that this continent is a
smilipg meadow of fresh young independance,
dotted over wltli small patches of rank grovel: -
On the grave in Hughenden Churchyard
Where Beacontfield reposes,
The Tories mark their warm regard
By piling up primroses ;
They know the crazj for colours bright
Which governed that old fel low,
And guess his soul still take 3 delight
In anything that’s yel low.
Our Gladstone dwells among U 3 still
(His health is pretty fair ish).
But all men know the People’s Will
Revolts from splendour garish ;
And that's the simple reason why
Those citizens of Do-ver
Threw snow of spotless purity
That pure old hero o-vor.
WARNING TO SERVANTS.
Oh ! slaveys, who in hope pri pare
To go and s>e the fireworks,
The blow wish resignation bear,
If “missis" your desire burke.
Vain passion in the human breast
Oft mischief very dire wo"ka ;
Domestic pleasures are the be3b
If Pain provides the fireworks.
Think on the fate of Minnie Grant,
Who now in regions higher works—
And rest contented if you can’t
Get out to see the fireworks.
Les 3 in anger,than in pity
Sing we now a little ditty—
Sing it of a wealthy nubble
Bui doped w.tii a load, of trnbble.
’TIs the Baron who goes yptting
Round the globe, instead of trotting—
Btron bricks and-mortar BU'BSsey,
Blue of blood andrathqr gaesey.
When he came to tell the stqry
Of Old England's hoary glory
Unto us, he socn detected
Symptoms, he had not expected,
That the coun’ry of the dingo
Wa3 not altogether jingo;
Here are men, as he confesses,
Diff’rent to tbo brave Da Bress’s.
Shocking things are said and written,
Which amazed the wand'rlng Britten ;
Jokes asd jeers at Federation
Came beneath his observation.
Here he found the old fallacious
I)jctiice, that Her Royal Gracious
Is anointed by Jehovah,
Had been knocked completely ovah.
Baron B got awful thirty
Whtn he found at “Tummy ” Bartlo
Folks wore fond of poking boraa —
Saving at Potts Point and Toorak.
So, though greatly he rejoices
That the toffs upraise their volce3
For the Queen at pub’ic dinnsrs,
lie’s concerned about the sinners.
Grieved to notice that the masses
Are not like the uppah classes.
i’Tis the curse of honest tojal
That it makes ’em so disloyal)
Thirty-nine in every, forty
Does the Baron, plump and 'orty,
Speak of as “ a certain section -
Bless his noble circumspection ! ;
Less in auger than in pity
We have sung this little ditty,
Showing how a sentence tricky
Gives a false idee to Vicky.
Certain, section !■ well, no matter—
That smug clique, whoso toady chatter
Had for Bfasjey such attraction,
Wo will ca’l.a vulgar fraction.
BRIEF MENTION.
An aged Irish woman ia endeavouring to get
a writ against Her Gracious tn a charge of em
bezzllng a shawl in 1849.
Sydney Chinvmen h we cmVributfed 1 irge'y
towards the Parkes' Fund. A yellow feeling
makes us wondrous kind.
At Pialba (Q.). a gin Iried to paint her
half-caste offsprirg black That she didn’t try to 1
paint it white is a “jar ” for the Caucasian.
San Moon got into trouble at Sydney the
other day through taking too much three-star.
The intoxicated constellation was fined in the
usual amount,
Up in Queensland the Croydon Queen
claim has realised 1460 ounces of gold from 120
tons This is the sort of thing wcie'a excites our
warmest sympathy.
A Brisbane Hebrew ref sed to be sworn
until his beard grew, and Ihs Bench agreed to
wait a week. A bullock-driver never postpones
his swearing that loi g.
A woman tried to drown herself in Vic-
toria the other day because her husband could
drink more than the crald. The authorities
hauled her ashore by the hair.
Alderman Meeks, of tie Sydney city
council says : “If ever they wanted a strong man
in the chair it was at the present time.” And, of
course, a strong man uses strong largusge.
A Poi t Darwin paper declares that ‘ 1 if the
B.A. Government send no mora police to keep the
Chinese in order, the white residents will take
the law into their own hands. ’ Or fee*-, p3ihaps.
A clergyman in Sydney, a well known
supporter of Sir Henry Parkes, is going to have
his salary reduced from £BOO to £7OO on account
of bad times. If his preachlrg is as poor as his
politics, the reduction is nob enough.
Minnie Grant, a domestic servant, com-
mitted suicide at Melbourne last week, because
she was not allowed to go to the fireworks. What
headstrong creatures girls are. We’ll wager she
does not like the fireworks now if she is there.
In the records of the first Moreton Bay
settlement the very first item of experditure
reads, “ Paid P. Quinley for 48 razors, at Is. 2.',d,
each, 11 Spanish dollars (50 cents.” What the
razors were wanted for noboe'y has ever ascer-
tained.
“ In future the hearse will on no account!
be lent to anyone,” advertises a Far North under-
taker in the Normauton paper. This is a good
move. When the miners borrow the hearee to-
carry a load of quartz in id is bouEd to get
damaged.
A Welsh clergyman was lately preaching'
oa baptism. After explaining to his parishioners'
the cust m of total immersion a? practised by the
Karly Church, he went on to say : “ Bub in this l
cold climate, where water is only applied to the-
face and hands ."
Ihe Queen refuses the bounty fer triplets'
to colonial parents, because a long time must
necessarily elapse before the circumstances of the*
case can ba invest iga’ed. In other words, she
wants to be certain that three adopted babies*
from the Noozk aro not imposed on her.
‘‘lf this should meet the eye of Jamsee*
Suddenjark” is the opening line of an advertise-
ment which appeared some little time ago in the-
Age. Jamsee is probably a Thug, whose services'
are required in his professional capacity by »
garrotting firm. Bub what an excellent name foe
a hangman !
Julius Clare, a miner at Croydon (Q.)rfinding-
the New Year's holidays hanging heavy on his-
hands, sought relaxation by placing a plug of
dynamite in his mouth, and touching it ofif with
fuse and detonator. Julius was blasted off the
face of the earth ; this was the first time he was
ever blown up, and the shock was too much for
him.
One of the worst literary qo lapses of th©
day is a book entitled “ The Wit and Wisdom of
Sir Wilfrid Lawson,” by that eminent advocate of
internal hydropathy. The onlf gcod joke in it
was one about an English prc&igal in Australia
who resolved to return to the old man and br efly
te’egiaphed, “ Fatt; d calf for cae,” Ar dwe have
our doubts about its originality, too.
When premier Parke 3 was at Newcastle
the other day, he wanted to know where Melville
—who was there, too—was to preach, and sug-
gested that Greer ihouldtake round the plate.
Now, why on earth didn't Parkes go round with
the plate himself ? Can it be t hat but, no, It
ia impossible. Or was it bah 1 the idea is
absurd. Perhaps, after all, it was merely
ahem l who knows ?
The S.M. Herald says: “The old-
fashioned, ponderous style seems to ba dying out,
not only among v rit era bub public speakers.”
From this we are enconraged to hope that the
race of leaden megatharirms who write pars
weighing a cart load each for the Herald are at
last becoming ex' l net, and that their heavy feet
will be heard in the walks of literature no more.
The parabl i of the miraculous draught of
fishes is at a discount. The Sea of Galilee can
take a back sea* 1 , and Capernaum may
shut up la the Hot Lake district of
NZ.,a defunct geyser resurrected in the shape of
a column of boiling water 200 feet high, with
quantities of eyeless firh ready cooked Hash
foundry claims are now being pegged out in the
vicinity.
A farkes’ subscription list was published
in the S.M. Herald leceotly, and— as a’l China-
town had donated —all the Sun Kura On's about
Sydney had their names and offerings printed in
full. Amor g the staggering cognomens was that
of Hung Picg Yam, who gave in (he language
of the gutter—a “quid” to the breadless home.
This is the bed-rock of degradation. How low
must the colonial Eismarck hare fallen when he
can take charity from a Morgol with a name like
that!.
At Blackall (Q. ) a man of wrath and given
to unrogenerate language, paid a snare for the
local sin-extinguisher, and induced him to bet a
carnal, worldly hat after the manner of the book
making Amalekite that it would rain before the
following Tuisday. When he had cooled down
the shepherd felt that little good could come out
of such a tranf action, my Christian brethren, but
all the same when Sunday arrived he offered up a-
special petition for rain, and it poured cats and
dogs next morning. He got the stakes, and the
wicked man, who wanted water badly, now goea
round in ba>s and other resorts of the flush, and
brags that ho “ squared Providence with a b’ojm-
' irg hat ’’


Stilly yo i' own interest by using Peraell's Snow-white
Patent Roller Pi ode It is made in tht colony from
l he b a c Uouiu wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality u exceptionally good, and the price very tow,*
Everybody should us) Pemell’a latest, beat Snow-whit
PaT(..vi' iw. Li.lt FjLOUK. it is tbs greatest suoce B ol 04
»te.*
P: RSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Charles Dilke had a flittering recep-
tion from tha Sultan. The latter has been thtro
himself.
The newest Royal baby is Yic :oiia Eugenie
Julia Ena Battenberg, and she can howl the whde
British court into convulsions.
Mr. Ives, tha well-known aict energetic
Australasian manager for the Warner’s Safe Cure
Company, sailed for America by the Zealandia
Mi s Helen Hart, the well- known wom an’s
rights stump orator, who licked an editor
“ wonst,” bar got into difficulties through slang-
whanging the Wargaratta (Vie ) station-master
and tearing hi 3 hair.
The Sydney Christian World devotes a
few columns to “ Darwin as a man,” conclusively
proving his sex. The editor should continue his
researches in natural philosophy, and deal with
the case of Lucy Wilkinson, M.P.
They say that the effect of being born in
the purple is rapidly becoming apparent in her
Gracious Majesty’s face. Her cheeks are tinted
like the hash-house steak which has been thumped
with a rolling-pin to make it cook tender.
The father of James Service, in the fifties,
owned, and edited in his spare time, a little news
sheet, which the old gentleman personally
humped round to his subscribers. He was a
quiet, methodical old man, and acted as clerk ia
the then small general warehouse of his hard-
headed son.
The Princess of Wales is now so deaf and
S 3 anxious to conceal the fact that she nsver
speaks, and when she sajs anyone’s jaw moving
a 3 if ha were addressing her she merely smiles.
The whole Danish Royal family is afflicted the
same way, and among them they could hardly
hear a mountain fall.
The Grand Old Man bis been invited by
Leo XIII, to drop in and ice him at the Vatican,
and the two will probably have a high old time
over a bottle o£ fiz. Moat people don’t know that
Gladstone has a maiden sister who some years
ago foreook the Anglican Church, and is now a
devout Roman Catholic.
“’“The late Hon. John Johnston, M.L C.
i(N.SS ), is, or rather was, as a brand plucked from
the burning. All his life he was a consist ?nt hard-
tack Presbyterian, but on his dyirg bed tha satel-
lites of His Imminence administered the last rite 3
and received him unctuously into the Roman fold.
Plenty of dollars were there to grease the show
along, but not a red cent for the st irvlng poor he
left behind.
The Marquis of Ailesbury may comfort
Mmself in his expulsion from that home of welsh-
ing, the British turf, by the recollection that he is
mo t’ the first aristocrat by a long way who has
keen fired out. Due of the Royal Dukes ot York
was a bounced man for many years, and notbiog
but the most vociferous argument has saved a
large proportion cf the British a: iatooracy frem
the same disaster.
It is announced that Attorney- General
Wise has declined to accept fees for professional
services rendered to the N S.W. Government.
After that, W 8 expect to see a card hung up oat
«ide a Wesleyan chapel, bearing the strange
-device: “ N.o collection to day I Never have no
-collection here:' Indigent persons please ca’l at
ithe v-estry after service.”
In an Auckland (N.Z.) church, the other
Sunday, Admiral Fairfax was p.aiaing the Lord
just as one of his own blue jackets came in tight.
At the same moment the collection-hat came
round. Then the Admiral aro.e, and solemnly
ran out the inebriated son of the wave, and by the
time he got hack to his pew the beacon with the
iplate had passed by, and he hadn’t a chance to
-put in Ms little threepence.
Jimmy Tyson, the Queensland millionaire,
was always abouttbe seediest man south of the line.
<©nce in Melbourne a i infatuated constable gave
Mm:24 hours tocleer out.of the town all on ao-
count of his hat—under penalty,of being run In
ifor having no visible means of support. Jimmy
-crushed him to the earth by sending him to cash a
-cheque for £36,000, and a cloud of dust marked
[the policeman’s .flight down the ro.ad
D.r- Cameron Lees, in, one qf hfs articles
-on Australia in the Scotsman, speaks of a wattle
-and-cZab hut. This lets the rev. gent. ouL The
utterances of a man who speaks of a wattle and
-clab hut can receive the credence of no sensible
person. g.u-h ignorance of our colonial institu-
’tions is seldom displayed, even by the most super-
ficial globe-trotter. Gre,at Csetar! A wonder
Dees didn’t make it “ bottle and club."
B. J. Eink, M.L, A- Qf Victoria, is just
mow in Sydney. ,B. J. is full brother pf Theodore,
-the lawyer-poet and typical Hebrew, who goes in
-for -developing the “.spiritual genius ” pf that
-ancient and economic .race Theodore deals in
sonnet 3 and bills of costs ; B. J. in tables and;
-chairs and bedsteads No man has given Han-1
sard less trouble. ;If Parkes measured up Fink,
Ms Parliamentary .utterances wouldn’t run into
3aalf a foot.
One of the papers says that the husband
of Queen Victoria's eldest daughter has 72 de-
corations, and Bismarck 1)9. Bqt that other die- 1
languished German personage, Baron Von Meuller,
of Melbourne, goes ahead of this. He o ,-jns two
square .yards of them, so tha"; he can dis-
guise himself beyond recognition behind the stars
and medals and other things ssnt put to him by
Kaiser William, Queen Vic oria, the King of
Dahomey, the Lord of the White Elephant, the
Monarch of the Cannibal Islands, and King Billy
of Boomerang Gully !
During the trial of Johns for attempted
murder, when “Thunderbolts boy” was cal ed
from the gaol as a witness, the PoLce Sergeant in
attendance carefully removed all portable articles,
inclusive of a heavy leaden inkstand, from within
reach of the prisoner-witness, and took his seat
behind the witness-box, affectionately caressing a
formidable “ Neddy,” which he held ready for
uEe. The precautions thus displayed were con-
sidered necessary, as it was thought that “ Thun-
derbolt " might take pot-shots at Mr. Justice Win-
deyer, to whom he was indebted for the twenty
years he was then serving-
The N.S.W. Centennial postage stamps
constitute an act which is little short of high
treason. From quite a number of them the head
of Her Gracious has been removed and the device
which has been licked by a loyal race during 50
stormy years will be licked—alas!- no more. Oa
the twopenny stamp Victoria has been sacrificed
to Barren Carington, and the glory of the British
crown has given place to a ditgram represent’ng
the eler at ad Smith yawning in eg- ny. Fe v men
a i yawn l:ke l asing 1 -,on. Mora than once in a
ney theatre wa have seen him pant his legs
ap^raLd all but 'urn h's head out ide ir,
and even then he wasn’t doing his best, as it
were. When he really spreads himself no two-
penny stamp would hold him, and anyhow it was
a mean, low trick to abolDhtho Queen's photo. and
replace it by a'coavulsion cf Nature which would
tax the dimensions of a circus-poster.
“Died of the Windsor railway smash,” is
the informal verdict retuned by his friends on
John Anderson, lite traffic-manager of Yictoiiau
railways. He was practically shelved after that
disaster, and when he died a little later the doc-
tors called it diabetes. Commissioner Agg died of
the s’me disease. Victorian railway men eesm to
dropoff pretty hurridley somehow, Fehon, who was
traffic-manager year 3 ago, still survives, but he
probably owes his good fortune to the fact that he
shunted the railway business and took to running
a livery stable in S.ephen-street, Melbourne. The
common meat horse is not such a strain upon the
mind as the iron one.
G. W. Taylor, formerly Mayor of Prahran
(Melb ), is to be a candidate for West Denbigh
(Wales). The poor little man seems to he labour-
ing hard for something or other. He offered to
give £lOOO to the Victorian Patriotic Fund if 10
or 20 choice omadhouns would do likewise, but
they didn't, Then he went home and was present
at the naval review, and Wales never looked at
him. Next he founded a Methodist college in the
land where Evan Evans chases Griffith Giiffi hs
down the distracted page of the Directory, and
nobody seemed to take any notice of the fact. He
WEEPING AMONG THE RUINS.
“ His Excellency and Lady Caringbon much regret to hear of loss sustained, and
heartily sympathise with you.”—(Governor Carington’s telegram to Hordera and Sons,
after the recent fire).
is going to try for Parliament now, and if he gets
in it is expected that he will be “ agin” the
Government,
We write this in memory of the first
wholesale land-grabber of Aus ralia. Major Ben-
jamin Sullivan was an important individual
dwelling at Port Macquarie fifuy-six years ago,
and his master-mind conceived a gigantic project,
by which the present sites of a dezen towns Mere
to be jumped in one act. His idea was contained
in an epistle which he addressed “ To the Nobility
and Gentry cf the British Empire and its
Colonies,” and set) forth a scheme by which a
“joint stock agricultural, commercial, and politi-
cal company” was to purchase for a million
pounds 20,000,000 acres of the land on the astern
coast. His project was not appreciated, and the
Maior and his rcheme for ever subsided.
At Warminat9r (Eng.), recently, the
police locked up a tramp in a call beneath the
Town Hall, and then forgot all about him. With
great presence of mind, however, he hollered for
10 hours righb ahead, and ab the end of that time
an officer, who had quite finished what he was at,
and had got properly rested, came alorig and let
the hungry wretoh out.
POLITICAL
POINTS
An N,Z. paper pleasantly remarks
“ The Premier left for Nelson to-day. Sir F.
Whitaker and Mr. Mitohelaon went North with
the same object.”
William O’Brien, the Irish patriot,
spent part of the period of bis imprisonment in a
cell nine feet by four. There is a volums of
Tory civilisation in this fact.
The Governor’s Salary and Allowances
B 11 has passed both Houses of the N.Z. Legisla-
ture, and has been reserved for approval during
her Majesty's pleasure. The said Bill reduces the
pay of all future Governors; if it guaranteed an in-
create it wouldn’t have been reserved—not much 4
Sir William Jervois would have got out of bed the
moment it passed and assented to ii in his shirt-
tail.
The San Francisco Argonaut fixes up a
paradox :
The Bntflrsh Government is endeavouring to govern a
country which it hag not conquered, and the Irish people are
enoeavmrmg to enjoy a f cedom which they have not
achieved. Both people are en ? favouring to ascertain what
is the effect if a feeble Govern— ent c me in conflict with a
powerless rebellion.
Speaking a Bega (N.S.W.) last Friday
Parkes said : * ■ I«onsid i myself one of the most
guileless, simple-minded, tnd open young men in
the country.” But then Parkes doesn't know him
self as his creditors know him. If he could come
outside of himself and lend himself money he
would soon have cause to change his views.
The renegade Liberal, Goachen, justifies
Chief-Secretary Balfour’s brutal administration of
the Coercion Act in Ireland by pointing to sundry
larky cartoons of that eminent official which ap-
peared in United Ireland and the Freeman's
Journal. The dignity of a Tory is an awful
thing, and only blood can wipe out the insult.
In N.Z. the Factory Act limits the
working day to eighb hours, and in consequence
the toiler is undersold in all directions by im-
port ra, whose goods are manufactured by white
slaves, who labour 11 hours out of the 24. As the
Government refuses to put on sufficient duties to
balance the d fferenee, \ha Auckland artisans now
lease the workrooms from their employers ; every
man ia his own boss, and they labour for 10 or 12
hours a day, and as much more as they darned
well please.
Shiels, of the Victorian Assembly* says
bitterly that he “ doesn’t know the day wnen, b/
backstairs influence, there may be foisted on the
colony,* a Governor who is a wife-beater, a
drunkard, and a debauchee.” So far, however,
Victoria has fortunately escaped this disgrace;
though she once had a Governor who mashed a
girl in the Botanic Gardens, and her brother came
up and kicked him hard behind.
The Sultan of Turkey celebrated Mi-
hornet’s birthday by holding a levee— quite a
radical innovation —at his palace. After sherbet
had been served to 500 Pashas, the Sultan made a
speech, promising to repeat the revelry every
year, and “ his Majesty’s gursts left in a state of
much emotion." The Turk is proverbially a self-
contained cues, but such royal condescension as
this would wring tears from a graven image.
Mr. Mandeville, the Pdor Law Guardian;,
Who was imprisoned in Tullamore Gaol under the
Tory Coercion Act, refused, like William O’Brien,
to wear the prison uniform, bix warders and the
Governor entered Mandeville’s cell one day and
tore his clothes off him, and for some time he
roamed about his apartment quite naked. He is
now serving out the rest of his tenienoe in an old
counterpane. O’Brien's clothei were Btolen while
he was asleep, but Mandeville slept in his toggery
and violence became necessary.
Monk, of the N. Z. Legislature, is a serious
and melancholious-looking politician, and is in-
terested in the firewood trade. Naturally enough,,
therefore, he has a bilious down on the coal-min-
ing industry, and be will boom along serenely for
hours about the evil effects of that trade upon the
morals. “If you put a boy into a coal-mine for
four years,” he thundered in a recent oration,
“ that boy won’t come to no good. Now, s’posin
instead you put that boy through a sawmill for
four years he will become ." “ Sassage,"
roared a tired-out member from a back bench.
‘' Sassage ; Bit down ! ”
The legend rans that during the height of
the Trafalgar Square riot, H.R.H,’s softly-padded
hansom—with the animated Royal German sau-
sage inside —became blocked by the “ mob, dont-
yerknow,” and the fat Heir-Apparent sat with his
cigar balanced on his big unierjaw and his puffy
hands folded on the door of his cab, looking coolly
from right to left at the seething mass of haggard
men and women being bludgeoned by the police.
Afterwards HR H. drove on to Marlborough
House, and ordered a gorge for some of the
valiant policemen (we mean to be sarcastic here),
aod the rest of the “blue bottles” were enter-
tained, yer know, poor devils, by the Union Club.
At Bally hams is, Ireland, three girls and
an old woman of seventy have been sent to gaol
for intimidating and obstructing the bailiffs,
police, and military at a seizure fer rent on the
Bey tagh Estate ! The desperate criminals were es-
corted to Castlebar Gaol by 100 armed constabu-
lary 1 Great Scott! Farcy young Biddy Murphy
(aged 14, be iabers!), Kitty O’Brine (in her bare
feet), Molly Maguire (armed with a broom-
handle), and that ould, hoary-headed sinner, Judy
Fogarty, who ought to have known betther, fero-
ciously attacking the military and constabulary,
and bums and sheriffs, till the Gatling guns had
to be turned on the furies, and the infantry had to
charge with the baj onet!
William O'Brien, M.P., when committed
to prison, registered a vow that he would not put
c n prison clothes. While he was In bed in the
gaol hospital, his toggery was stolen by the
warders and the prison rags left in their stead,
and then William refused to get up. One day,
however, the turnkeys were flabbergasted on
going into the hospital to find the O'Brien dretssd
in a nate suit o’ tweed. Up to this hour
no one knows how William got the things. Be
told the governor that they came “ down the
chimney,” and it’s just possible they did. A lot
of O’Brien’s friends were always hanging about
the outside of the gaol. Once a brass band
serenaded him, and William waved the tail of his
shirt from his cell-window in acknowledgment.
(The “authorities” had taken away his pocket-
handkerchief.)
Sir William Fitzherbert, Speaker of the
N. Z. Legislative Council, lately took a little trip
home, partly on his own account, and partly to
exhibit his pompous baldness, at the Imperial
Conference, and whilst he was absent, it was
lecessary to appoint some other affluent old
gent to the chair. He was away some time, but
ultimately he shook the dust of Europe from off
his simple blutchers, returned to the Parliamen-
tary roof, and took up his cross once more in the
eorvice of his country. Then someone accidentally
discovered that under the provisions of the new
Civil Service Reform Act Sir William had for-
feited his old-established pension by absenting
himself from his salaried billet and being re-
appointed thereto, and the curtain descends on a
swindled old politician oursing in the Parliamen-
tary refreshment-room with a great and bitter
curse.
Mr. Pyne, of Lisfinny Castle, county
Waterford, for whose arreßt a warrant is out, has
fortified his stronghold against police, process-
servers, and the military. The other day a b!g
deputation oame from County Cork with fife and
brass band to bid him hail and ask him how he
was getting on. The demonstration took place
in front of the castle, and the president
perched on a gate-post, as nobody had a chair
about him. Mr. Pyne, who was lowered down by
a rope and pulley till he came within 15 or 20
feet of the ground, was received with tremendous
cheering. He said he was sorry he could not
receive the deputation in person, but those who
wished could come up by the rope and visit him,
and present the address in person. He was wait-
ing peacefully for the police to come and serve the
warrant. If they would knock at his hall-door
(80 feet from the ground) they might be let in, and
if he happened to be from home they could call
another day. Since he entered the castle a lady
had sent him a book on ‘ How to Cook Potted
Meats," and another wrote to know if he was
lonely.
John Taylor, of nowhere in particular,
meb with a disaster last week. Having got
drunk, he said his prayers on the permanent way
(which, no doubt, he mistook for the road to
Heaven), and lay down on the railway line to
sleep with the other sleepers. When he rose in
the morning he thought no ’arm had befallen him,
and so it had, for on going to the shanty for a re-
fresher the landlord remarked to him that he had
forgotten one of his semaphores. John went
back to the line and found the misßing limb which
he sold for a pint of beer to a travelling bone-
setter.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 1888.
I - \
/
h\
if?!
f J
I
" I
I e
■ jlX
o
CJ U
f'*\ v3
" O
H
A
V
m Vi
\
X
X
Q '
o
' 1
\
A
0/
7 ft


ofc 7r e c*.
A'e.u) /Je-c*~p<jp y
or Z)<y<z S
/A- /y?
/ rn. e.
7<~/e. . _ A/o. cda.6 fpereL^/rs/T
it*
L '*'*
h j/ >e £^o7*
fjjere /5 c
J/3ry y^er ? rfe'J«7
<d/>o fo ( ‘
C i a.a a. - f ’ u ~^ > c^h lC
ficcrc fa. S e. cl ,
C^° S a /^
I ” Jcc9« 3e7ujee
cx. tjcZ //~s o(3)pe.t- /J Ja/a
&p cZ'jjo^
f*-?</ C g fc-Cs/'Op .
tt 3 Vcu. A tt /■ yoct.y £ /o»a z,s
/T yo-yAe- cJe.«r-,?2 s<l
/L <s°s °/ / a <-< r jfe.cL, ?~/~ c<y£ a*} you. O' p
//ou> fi> e / 7c 6 - Q tf *■>*//?
for cdaJc £, orfejrs -
The Dog Days.


FRECKLES, TAN, SUNK URN,
and all species of Ephelis and Lentigo are spots and patches
of ferrous colouring matter deposited beneath the epidermis
or external skin. Many useless remedies are sold, but
Clements’ Frecklebane is, bo far. the only effectual oure
Easy to apply and non-injurlous. A proper übb is sure to
cure. Sold by all chemists. City agonts, Washington H.
Soul and Co. Post, free from P. M. Clements Chemist,
Niwtown, N.H.W., f„r 2). OJ in stamps."
Home is home, be it the Artizan's cottage, Merchant’s
villa, or King's castle, and it is there the quiet pipe of peacs
can teer joyed Bn ay Bros , the China u L d Glass peoi le
of 402 and 4(11 George-stree\ can help you fo make each
of our rooms rno.e at ractive and beautiful.*
Olaremont, Daflinghurst Road, Sydney.-A private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established by D/. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with teparate bedrooms
derive the great advantages of a constant medical super'
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff
' or Pft txulara apply to the Lady Superintendent.*
J. B. Pack’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is'
the most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
Connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flavour. Prepared so
that the combustion is perfect. Burn out to tho last
pa t ol° v lih a pure white asb. Try it
Society
When Dolly Tester left the footlights to
marry the present Marquis of Ailesbury, she ap-
pears to have entered a rather choice family. Her
husband did his flr3t royal drunk at the early age
of IG—he was a schoolboy at Eton in these days,
and having a woaful lack of courage and an ap-
pointment with the head-master for the purpose
of beiDg swished he filled himself up with a whole
bottle of brandy as a preliminary—and he has
seldom been sober since. His father, commonly
known as “ the Duffer,” was accustomed in his
younger days to make considerable sums of money
at White’s Club by betting on his father's breath as
the most villainous in Europe, but after a while
people began to know the old man’s whitkeyfied
atmosphere, and the income from this source fell
off. But thescene at “ Duffer ” Ailesbury’s death-
bed was the greatest feature in the family history.
When the old reprobate found himself closely
followed by the Pale Horseman —pretl y nearly
the only one whom he hadn’t squared in the
course of his sporting career—he resolved to get
religion, but after half-an-hour of pious medita-
tion he remarked bitterly that he “couldn't re-
pent worth a damn.” Baing painfully hard-up, the
idea of making a collection, as the next best
thing to regeneration by faith, did not occur to
him, and, as a last resource, he sent out for a
crucifix—the biggest that could be found, and be
dashed quick about it. The article was brought,
and the old peer hung on to it. At this crisis one
of his sporting friends arrived with a view to
bringing some horsey comfort to the dying man,
but the old sinner stated that he had renounced
the pomps and vanities of the flash, and bade him
beeone. “ Well, what the dooce are you doing
wilh that cross?” asked the ghostly consoler.
“I’m hedging, biggod,” was the reply, and with
that the soul cf “the Duffer” passed away, and
young Savernake, wilh his donkey-cart and h's
costermonger costume, became one of the Peers of
glorious Britain.
• • •
One of the most sanguinary and blasting
reverses in the history of ancient or modern war-
fare was recently sustained by a detachment of
the Salvation Army at Oamaru (N.Z.) A ruby-
vested contingent under the command of a she
capting of high degree, sallied forth early one
bright Sunday morning to storm the hotel of a
local sinner, and they banged the big ba33 drum
and tooted on the bassoon and yelled “ ally-
looyer ” in front of the premises until they roused
the hypochondriac publican from his feather-
bedded lair, and brought him out on the balcony
in an airy cos ume cut low at the skirt, and an
exasperated frame of mind, to ascertain what the
howling hosannah the whole racket was about.
He saw a row of poke-bonnetted females kneeling
in the slush, and a crowd of iron-jawed men
holding forth, and then he twigged the moral
aspect of the situation. The man of many beers
was a J.P., so he swiftly skimmed back into the
house for his pants and the Riot Act, and
re-appearing on the balcony, he held up
the one and read the other in a sleepy
voice to the immortal choir below. They
took no notice whatever of these proceedings,
and he next ordered them to disperse In the name
of her Gracious, and fixed his brace buttons and
solemnly put on his boots. “ Now,” he said, em-
phatically, “ are this baleful gathering of lunatics
going to skip off my licensed premises, or are
they going to continue to flop in defiance of the
statoon ? ” They responded by sending up a peti-
tion sky-high in favour of this “ pore” miserable
sinner’s immortal soul. “Very g jod,” said the pub-
lican, grimly, “ then I'm a-coming down." And
he came. He gathered together every able-bodied
citizen on the premises who was capable of bear-
ing arms, and, after loading them up with brooms,
fire-irons,, tin-kettles, old boots, dinner bells,
kerosene-tins, and chair-legs, he loosed the dog, and
they all charged out by the back-door, and wor-
ried the Army in the rear. Wherever they saw a
head they welted it, and the skirmish lasted just
10 seconds by rhe Waterbury which the boy who
cleaned the boots had bought cheap at a sale. The
shemale cipting was the first to turn her bustle
and flee for her life down the street, and the con-
tingent followed wilh the dog a good third, amid
a storm of howls, mud, and derision. Sundry old
poke-bonnets were left behind as the spoils of
war, and one heavy saved dragoon who could not
keep up with the rest was considerably harassed
about the legs. They never returned to that
hotel, and ever since then balmy peace has reigned
at Oamaru.
A hypochondriac American paper prints
the following in cold blcod
The thrilling and wildly interesting news that Mrs. Lang-
try takes a cold bath every day has gotten to us The pecu-
liar softness and calmness of the atmosphere and sky lately
seemed to forbode sime strange and startling occurrence. It
must have found itself in the Langtry tub. EYr some unac-
countable reason, we are not in receipt, up to the present, of
news rega'ding Lanp. try’s soap, or whether she uses any.
Does she prefer bran ? Or it muy be that borax is the fa-
vourite bathing tipple of the Englishwoman ? Does she use
smooth towels or rough ? Do they have blue borders or red 1
Perhaps a plain white checked or striped border, not wide,
yet not n»rrow, is the choice. If she uses soap, does she
place it on the ledge of the tub, and does it go sliding across
the bath-room floor when she knocks it with her elbow ? If
so, does she jump out of the water and capture it, or does she
balance herself on the edge and try to haul it in with her flesh-
brush ? Or, perhaps, after all, she places thesoap in the dish
at the head maybe the foot of the tub, or yet again on a
chair by her side. With eager intensity we await the answer
as to whether the Lily’s fingers squeeze a sp' nge or wring a
wash rag. Does she take the plug our. before she gets out or
when she stands up to rub herself V Or does she use the
English tub, that's lugged in and out? If so, why ? Her
passionately desired American citizenship entit’es her to an
American tub. It is slightly cofiiny, as a rule, bit one has
to get used to that sooner or late . Most people prefer it
later. Has she telephonic communication with any real
estate firm, so that while taking a bath she nerd lose no
time in buying real estate and 700-acre ranches? When the
breath-holding West has the foregoing conundrums an-
swered it will feel that through Mrs. Langtry s tub the cob-
webs of curiosity have been washed away.
* * *
“ Pijin,” as all the world knows, stands
for buaines3 in the literary well of Chow unde-
filed, We once asked a thorough-boi’ed Chinkie
fresh from Leper Land what hit ideas of a
Supreme Beirg cr a Hereafter might be—being
anxious to report on the subject in The Bulle-
tin —and he smiled pleasantly upon us and re-
sponded : “ You Jesus Chi it pijin We dis-
claimed this responsibility and said that we were
newspaper pijin, and he smiled again and said he
had mistaken ua for white devil preachy fellow
jaw-jaw.
• a •
A youth advertising in the S.M H. for a
wl'e says that he is well-off and well-conneoted.
Has a house on the Riviera, and landed estate in
Australia, and that his w'fe will move in the be3t
sasslety in Erg’and “ where they will reside peri-
odically.” Hts Sydney address, however is care
of a small storekeeper. Probably he resides there
while his palace is being whitewashed,
A S.M.H. matrimonial advb. speaks thus :
10 Ladies or Respectable Females Desirous of » Home.
—A gentleman Widower, with two children, is
anxious to communicate with a lady of about 30, with a
view to matrimony.
We can’t quite make out whether this is roughest
on the lady or the respectable female. Evidently,
if the adverther can’t get a lady who needn t
either be respectable or a female, he is prepared
to take a female who is respectable but Isn't a
lady. And a question naturally arises as to
whether he wants the two children brought up to
be a lady or a female, and how would a female
know the way to bring them up as a lady, or
SYDNEY CITIZEN (viewing the portrait of the Fat Girl): "HM! NOW, HOWEVER CAN
A HUMAN BEING GROW TO SUCH A SIZE AS THAT, I WOULD LKE TO
KNOW."
would a lady be able to teach them to be a female ?
And, supposing the children happened to be a boy,
how would either of them set about it? Or, if the
children chanced to b 3 two boys, t he i where would
the female be 1 In fact, where would anybody b 3
under such tryieg circumstances? Probably she
wouldn’t be anywhere at all.
* * *
Extract from the Sydney Mail of Decem-
ber 10:
Burglars entered a house at Highgate while the family
were dining, and upset a bath, the witer of which, to the
surprise of those below, came trickling through the ceiling
Mrs. Oasey, the wife of a medical man. It is alleged that,
the prisoners, instead of presenting Mrs. Casey, who was
then in a dying state, for the usual examination, put for-
ward a woman of robust health, who was accepted.
There is a wide field of possibilities in this little
item. When burglars upset a bath on a woman
of robust health, who yvaa acoepted—lhough what
she was accepted for or whether she accepted the
bath, or the burglars accepted her, ia not very
clear—they undoubtedly acted in a more gecerous
manner than if they had upset the bath on Mrs.
Casey, considering that she was In a dying condi-
tion ; but even if the burglars had “ presented
Mrs. Casey ” that wouldn't have stopped the
water from trickling through the ceiling. Ard if
the water had trickled through the ceiling on to
Mrs. Cagey in her dying condition, the coate-
quences might have been te:i*ug, so it is jusb pos-
sible the woman in robust health—no, that can’t
be, for id appears that Mrs. Casey wag not pre-
sented for the usual examination to see if she
could stand, having the bath upset on her because
—but, on the other hand, that dot sa t account for
the surprise of those below, and id doesn't say be-
low what, S 3 we are forced to the cinclusion—on
second thoughts we give it up,
* * *
The London Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel in Furrin Parts, has refused, point
blank, the profits of a fancy fair conducted by
some flirty young females of Gloucester. The
Society considers that the Lcard’s blessing will
never rest up.n hal-crowns wrong from weak-
kneed dudss by girls in opera-boufFe skirts and
would rather not run the risk of encouraging
Christian lag-shows for the benefit of the un-
draped heathen. This is a nasty jar for bazaar
nymphs all the world over. We have had a down
on fancy fairs ever since a yellow-haired thing In
a Y-shapcd bodice induced ug to invest 2s. 63. on
the race game. We backed a loser, of course,
and if Heaven’s blegsing ever rested on our half-
dollar it’s a camion. The wretched coin was
cursed till it wouldn’t have saved the soul of a
Chinaman.
* • •
The poor Argus iives| in the past— the
buried past, and even the special correspondents
don’t understand how the world is wagging now-a-
days. A Milan letter to that “leading journal”
discusses the recent visit of Kaher W ilhelm to
his “royal brother, King Victor Emanuel, of
Italy." If the cast-iron Emperor had already
succumbed to the effect of lobster salad on a
venerable stomach we conld understand him
hugging Victor Emmanuel—but not in Milan.
W'hea those royal brothers do meet it will be else-
where—not there, not there, my child. At thas
time, maybe, the literary lazarua will be placidly
laving his white wings with cool fresh water from
th a b?autiful river, while the royal brothers ai e
offering him their kingdoms for a drink. Yes, in
a!riot confidence we must whisper to the Argus
that Victor Emanuel is deader than colonial beer.
What can the special correspondent at Milan be
about not to know that Emperor Wiliiam went
there to visit Jalius Ceesar on the occasion of his
jubilee ?
* * *
In the prlson-Ecene cf “ Jack Sheppard,”
at Sydney Criterion the other night,
a gallery god took a long shot at Fanny
Robina with a bouquet, and landed the
high-priced vegetable at her feet. It it had come
from the dress circle Fanny would doubtless have
smiled back in the fasoinating way aotresses
have, but being from near the roof it waßn’t worth
while. She merely picked it up and slammed it
down on the table and went on acting.
* * *
Up on a Queensland station, a few yeirs
ago. there lived a young Victorian swell who had
been sent away from the haunts of civilisation to
cool down. It was a lonely, arid spot where he
found himself planted—there was no hotel and
no theatre, no block to do to girls to mash ex
cepb one dishwalloplng slavey with tha intellect of
a heifer, no larks of any kind, and no nice fellow
to talk to, and ha did not take kindly to th
heavy-booted race who devoted their lives to tb
study of the walking realm of baaf So ha mashed
a lubra, and tha cfark-skinned daughter cf th
soil gave him her heart, and was betrayed—jus
by way of a joke, don’t you know. Then, after
while, the Victorian swell was fou:d scattered
loosely on ihe plain, with a spear stuck through
his back and his held nearly hacked off with
boomerang. The local papers wept and raved
over “ this bright young life, cut off in the
flower of its thicgamy by these black demons who
deserve extermination,” and the troopers went
out and came across a tribe who had never seen
or heard cf the bright young deceased, and there
was a numerous funeral in that region, and all
that was left of the tribe wasn’t enough to swear
by. A large idiotic stone-flhb was put over the
Victorian swell, with numerous virtues insoribet
on it, ar,d the officer of police sent) in his report
which was duly initialed and pigeon-holed by
youDg man in the Civil Service, who reluctantly
stopped sucking the top of his oane to do it, anc
said it was an awful “ baw,” and the lubra was
clubbed to death by an incensed male relative anc
the dingoes got her. That was all. There is no
poetic justice to tail on to the story. It ends
right here.
• * •
A correspondent writes : •
Of all the noxious animals to be met with in Australia,
the “ English gentleman” is about the noxiousest. A too
generous Legislature has, so far, brought no rfpress've mea-
sures to bear against him. He goes about like a roaring lion
where he listeth, and it is, unreasonably enough, accounted
a crime to kill him There is no penalty attached to his
Jntry or exit. He i? not poll-taxed, as is the case with the
*S3 loudly offensive Chinaman ; nor is he blocked and
watched till there is a chance of running him in, as is usual
with escaped convicts from New Caledonia. He is not
liable to specific duty at the Custom House, nor is there any
ad valorem duty chargeable against him—this, perhaps, for
the sufficient reason that ad valorem duty amounts to
nothing on anything which has no discoverable value. He is
not even liable to an annual fee for registration, in this re-
spect obtaining an unfair advantage over the other pup ; nor
is he obliged t a give notice of his intention to exist, as is
usual in the case of some other ki da of nuisance. He is
under no disabilities whatever. The full rights of citizenship
ara accorded him. He may vote, m->y become a suburban
alderman, and attain to other glories with impunity. So
long as he is moderately sober when in the street, the law
permits him to confer his baleful presence and the
full measure of his querulous insolence upon the
patient abiders on this Continent. Of course,
there are plenty of genuine gentlemen, who are
Englishmen, but they have nothing in common with the fly
in the public ointment who travels round nerpetually how-
ling that he is an “ English gent'eman." Within five seconds
of the time you first meet the latter human he impresses
this pleasant fact upon your mind, and then he goes on to
tell you of the surpassing excellence of Englishmen in
general and of himself in particular, also the elevated posi-
tion of his family, and how he suffers, as an English gentle-
man, from association with the awful, vulgar crds one
meets in this horrid country With him every Australian
nrospect displeases and the inhabitants are abyssmally vile.
If he affects politics at all they are exclusively English
politics—in fact he doesn’t believe that there are any ether
on the face of the earth; he moans about the principle of
manhood suffrage, and tells in his culch wed way how states-
manship disappeared when Disraeli died, and how that
shining Jingo, with the well-oiled locks, has been succeeded
by a lot of common individuals who, instead of propping up
the throne, actually keep worrying about low Irishmen.
Taking him for all in all the Englis'i 11 gentleman ” is about
as unlovely an animal as exists outside theZoo.—Yours, &c.,
Blub Gum.
* * *
When all N.S. W. is getting ready to paint
itself rad, and every colonist is practising how to
support himself by the lamp-post and unlock the
street-door with his feet—it is soothing to learn
that what the S.M. Herald calls “ the dark
skinned natives ” are not to be overlooked. That
heavy-footed journal states with tears of printer's
ink that “The celebration of the end of the first
100 years of Australian civilisation has, doubtless,
a pathetic meaning to the da’k-skinned natives,”
and in view of this harrowing circumstance King
Billy and his Mary are to be allowed to centenni-
al. tuc —but mildly, as it the colony had her in-
solvent stop down and couldn't hang the expense.
Says the Herald :
The chief direction in which they will receive relief will be
in the supply of clothing to helpless or sick people, and es-
pecially will the women and children bs remembered: the
others will be provided with a good meal, and a still more
valued gift of a qu rter of a pound of tobacco.
A few yards of print, a square meal for the meD,
and a quarter of a pound of vile tobacco each,
constitutes the Centenary of the Simon Pure Aus
tralian, while the white pirates who camp on
stolen ground—who fill up the harbour with
sewage and turn an erstwhile eligible solitude
into a hideous brick and-mortar nightmare of four
rooms and a kltohea—are goiog to celebrate their
robbery in a ragieg ccean of booze. We feel this
matter deeply. We weie ones tbiaking of being
an aboriginal ourselves.
* * *
Archbishop Carr has entered a passionate
protest against the erection of new baths on the
South Melbourne beach, because his denomina-
tion runs a nunnery in the immediate vicinity.
He doesn't want cleanliness to be next to God-
liness.
* * *
An American paper statej that “low
dresses are to b 9 dropped at the theatre this
season.” If they are dropped much lower than
they are already, there will probably be a row at
last.
* * *
There is more trouble brewing over the
Melbourne exams. Most of the candidates on
such an occasion are rather nervous, but one
sweet little girl was an exception to this rule.
She got out if bed on the eventful morning and
got tn her clothes quite calmly, and ate three eggs
and five pieces of toast and a little bit of ham
for breakfast, and then put her hat on straight,
and fetched her little sister a smack, and went
right down and passed flyir.g. It she had stopped
at this she would have been all right, but she
went and told her bosom friend that she had
shaken her gory leeks at some University fossil and
had got a list of'the questions from him in advance.
Then the friend went and told the story to some
one else, and now there is a mighty burst up and
a row, and the first girl wishes she had never
been born.
* * *
At a picnic held som o . where in N.S.W.
there was a scarcity of girls for dancing, and
some of the married ladies who had their hostages
to fortune in tow were induced to sail in merrily,
The proud young son of Austral—
Th' Eadymion of our land
With wide-distended nostril,
Held up his dusky hand.
The prowling dingoes hearkened
To what he ’gan to say—
(Meanwhile the landscape darkened,
And evening veiled the day).
Standing—a dread, dark figure
Beneath a gnarled blue gum—
So spok9 the haughty nigger :
“ Budgeree white man rum l"


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true—
that Piwll’s Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is the
lest in the tn inuA.'
Whoa unityou b»k try Snow-white Roller
PLotrk, and yu rhr wil. bo ai *hito b nao*
Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Ilyde Park Hotel, co-ner of Bathurst and Elizabeth tercets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
Su vt.vky. ha’ spared no expense to tnak his ho el the first
i i Sydu y.”
leaving their babies a prey to fortune, which
turned up in the guise of two wild, gay, bad
young men, who speedily-without regard to sex
or fit;—changed the dresses and hats of the rising
generation, and then became extremely elsewhere.
In the hurry of departure, the weeping babies
were claimed according to their clothes-but,
When the bustle was over, there was trouble
amongst the mothers of Israel. The woman who
had cellared a flossy seraph instead of 1 er own
swivel eyed howler got just as mad as the matron
who had seized a freckled bud from heaven with
a sore nose in lieu of her own flaxen-haired liep&r,
and all the mothers in that district wanted the
hearts’ blood of those two mad jokers. Even-
tually, the olive branches were returned each to
its legal spanker, and Peace once more smiles over
the district, but those two strangers are Btill
wanted—oh, so badly 1
• *
Says a cannibal, per the S. M. ITeeald
•‘Wanted, an old man used to boiling down.
4i A missionary preferred,” we suppose. Mis-
sionaries are accustomed to violent treatment in
the cookery way.
* * *
Things are getting quite select at Mackay
<Q,), as the following “ ad.” bears evidence
IIMMY at the Royal Hote 1 , Sydney street, Mackay, can
provide a good Plunge and Shower Bath, Clean
Towel, a block of Scented Soap, and a glass of G„od
Whisky for 6d. -But don’t come more than sat a time,
as he has only five shower-baths,
Jimmy’s thoughtfulness in adding the whisky-
will lead many an unwashed stranger, coated
with rich aboriginal dust, to the unacoustomed
fountain.
* * *
Canon Dnckwoith, an eminent British
groveller, asserts that the long dresses now in
vojue were introduced by Her Gracious, and are
a living symbol of her royal, impeiial, and super-
natural seme cf modesty and decency. Perhaps
so. Victoria has hoisted all the female rank and
fashion of Great Britain pretty nearly out of its
clothes, till the time ha 3 come within measurable
distance when the male community will have to
take to the caves, and what she has hauled down
from about the* ears of the upper classes the has
added on at the feet for them to fall over. This
new fashion saves her Majesty the necessity of
showing her ankles, which are cf robust build, and
calculated to stand a lot of rough travelling up
bleak mountains on pilgrimages to the haunts of
the departed Brown. „
# *
Modeßt little thing this
T.UJY who smiled at quiet Gentleman on bridge on City
0 f Grafton, .Tan. 2, please write to Straw Hat,
Evening News Office. *
Female who grinned at the above will please ac-
cept this intimation.
* * *
Here are the points which we require in
our best girl. A Yankee editor who has been
there himself layß them down
A perfect, sjmmetrical, healthy woman of five feet five
inches in height, must comply with the following itandard:
She should be 130 pounds at the least and could stand up to
10 pounds more without injury to health or artistic perfec-
tion. The distance between the tips of her two middle
finders when the arms hre extended should be exactly the
same as the height or ten times the length of her hand, or
seven and a half times the length of foot, or five times
the diameter of her chest from one armpit to the other. I.be
distance from the junction of the thighs to the ground should
he the same as from the former point to the top
of the head. The knee should be exactly midway from
the iunction of the thighs to the bottom of the heel.
The distance from the elbow to the tij» of the rniddle finger
should be the same as from the elbow to the middle line of
the chest. From the top of the head to the chm, with the
head posed naturally, should be the same as from the level
of the chin to the arm-pits, or from the heel to tie tip of the
large toe. The bust of a woman of the height named should
be 43 inches measured over the arms, and the waist 24. Ihe
upper part of the arm should be from 134 to 14 inches and
the wrist lix inches. The ankle should be s x inches, the
calf Of the leg 14, and the thigh 25 Any woman of the
height mentioned who has these measurements can congra-
tulate herself on having as perfect a form as the Creator
ever made. Of course, the proportions vary with the he-ght.
* * *
Palestine is reported to be looking up.
A large soap-factory has been established in
Shechem, and the unßavonry Philistine, who
started by eating the soap, now washes himself
with it in Gath and puts on a clean Bhirt at
Askelon. Bethelem has been re-built; the streets
are lighted with gas, and in the place where
Herod slaughtered the infants an official now tries
to explain away the cussedness of the gas-meter,
and states in Arabic that the account must be
paid before the middle of the month or proceed-
ings will be taken. At Joppa, corner-iotß are
going up with a rush, and Mount Carmel is being
pegged off by a Yankee syndicate. There is also
a boom at Cesarea, and some big olive o'l specula-
tors have established them salves at Nazareth, and
are making things boom in Galilee, and the land of
Benjamin is tottering under abigmortgage. There-
fore, we rise to suggest that it is time all the
time-hononred three-ball brotherhood were going
home. Home, sweet home ! Their native country
calls for them, and why the deuce don’t they go
back to the Promised Land and discount bills at
60 per shent payable on the banks of the Jordan ?
The only time we ever saw a usurer in tears was
when he was talking confidentially about the
glory that used to shine on Lebanon, at d now
when this same individual has a chance to strike
oub for Lebanon in earnest he keeps on selling old
elo' down the street, and, for all he cares, bis native
land may got to pot.
• * *
The other day, just as the noon train for
Melbourne was about to leave tbe station at Nhill
(Vic.), an excited settler, wi h froth on his lips,
and his stoim-tcssed hair bristling like a yard-
broom, galloped on to the p a form, upending
loiterers, and scattering luggttze all over the place
in his wild career. Running along the fca’n, till
he came to a carriage occupied by a woman, a
baby, and a young man of nervous temperament,
he opened the door and entered. Immed ately
after dull thuds, sounds cf hyster a, and lush iro-
faulty proceeded from that carriage, a .d presently
the woman and tie baby and a crowd of pro-
miscuous luggage, were spilt out. The joungman
of nervous temperament was afterwards heard
to get up and fall on his head several times, x then
the settler issued forth, unrolling his sleeves, and
looking like a u an who had fulfilled his duty as a
husband and a father As the train moved
slowly off, he explained to the excited crowd that
the woman, the baby, and the luggage were his
property, and they cauld run off and leave him if
they liked, and be painted blue for evermore.
What riled him was that the knock-kneed, flat-
headed, spavined dude whom they had chosen to
elope with owed him seventeen-and six for board,
and he wasn’t going to stand that. He was a
white man, he was !
• * *
According to an eminent Earopean scien-
tist, civilisation is gradually wearing away the
human nose, and looking with prophetic eye down
the vista of futurity, he sees a coming race
with no nose at all. The original savage u-ed his
no3e to smell with, but a too-refined generatim
hires an inspector of nuisances to remove every-
thing smeliable, and the disused organ is fading
away as the human family gets nearer and nearer
to perfection. For our own part, we can quite
believe this theory. In New So dh Wales the
hangman is pretty nearly the only existing evi-
dence of progress, and he Is without a nos?. It
was the want of this organ, too, which gained
him his billet. Quite unconsciously he had
attained the topmost plane cf civilisation, ani
being thus fitted for greatnes 0 , he rote like a cork
to the surface of society. It was his nose that
did it—or rather his want of that blowable organ.
Being ourselves weighted down with the double-
dyed curse of a nose, we have never become £ no-
thing in particular, and unless we manage to
place that feature beneath a tram-car, we don t
suppose we ever will. Goodness only nose.
* * *
The troubles of a young man who had just
had a wash roused the sleepy city of Auckland
(N Z), last week, into sudden excitement. At a
late hour on Saturday night a drapers assistant
concluded he would have a hot bath, and an in-
sensate hairdresser (may his name be handed
| down to the obloquy of future generations) forgot
YOUNG LADY (loq.): “YESM NR. DE JONES, MY SISTER IS VERY BEAUTIEUL-
CREATED QUITE A SKNSATION AT HOME. SHE IS CONS DERED TO BE
LIKE ME.”
him and locked up the premises, leaving him
basking his undressed form under the tap. The
sufferer in the hot water heard the dcor closing,
and it only took him three seconds to drive one
leg through his hat and put his arms into the legs
of his trousers and his collar round his waist, and
rush out with his gloves on his feet and one boot
on each hand—but alas ! it was too late. Plunging
into the darkness of the shop, he drove bis head
into the shampoo tackle and raked down six
bottles of infallible hair-restoror, and than be
realised that his only resource was to live on. soap
and bathe straight ahead till Monday morning.
Would he endure this? No ! be was a free born
citizen, and had to see his girl next day, and, any-
way, he couldn’t stand for 36 hours under
a shower bath. The British constitution
couldn’t endure it So he hollered his loudest,
and pounded the door with a flesh brush,
and asked his fellow-colonists at the top of
his voioe if they v ould go home and enjoy
themselves while a human being was pining away
in a hot bath? Had they any bowels of compas-
sion, and if they had would they leave him to
languish in a barber's high-chair all Sunday, with
his famished ej e fixe 1 on the rotary bush above
his -head, or would some good Samaritan come
and let him out ? At last Policeman Boggs heard
the row, and bursting in the door he dragged ouc a
half dressed object, with aflesh-bru hinonehand,
a hat on his leg, ani the rest of hisfixings anyhow,
and having got him out he shook him and told
him he had had his eye on him for some time, and
that the charge was one of burgling a bathing
establishment. It was live o’clock on Sunday
afternoon before the matter was cleared up, and
when at last the sufferer was released the first
thing he did was lo lake an affidavit befo a a J.P.
that in future he would do his bathing in a wash-
tub in his own bedroom.
* * *
Baron Nordeoslcjold is ajbout to jboss an
exjpeditjion to t\je Souijh jPole. We rj se to re-
marhjke that itj’s a skiold day wbjen tbje Baron
gjets liejfjt.—Tit Bits.
In a pawnbroker’s shop in Russell-street,
Melbourne, there was displayed a figure of Old
Father Christmas with the legend, “ Come here
and buy your Christmas presents ” This is true
Jewish sarcasm, and convirces us that if a comic
paper ever existed in Judea it must have been—
well a Sheol of aproductlon. Of course, the legend
really meant “ Come here and pawn your boots,
and coat, and bed. and whatever you have, and
buy your—Me—Christmas presents from jour
uncle with the proceeds.”
Why don’t they keep a deient dictionary
in the S.M. Herald cffljfi? Tae oiher day the
Herald said a man had been charged at the
Police Court “ with having ps-aulted a policeman
and a civilian." We should like to s e how the
late Justice Sir Redmond Barry, of Viotoiia,
would jump down that reporter’s throat if ha had
him in the witness-box. Whenever a policeman
spoke of “meeself and a civiiyau, jer Honor,”
Barry would thunder out, “ Are you a military
man, sir V 1
Tha British teetotaller has risen to the
digniiy of an international outrage, and. unless he
is promptly suppressed, the chances are that we
wi'l become a naturalised C<,inaman and abjure
oivdlisa'ion for ever A reverend Dublin gentle-
man arches his back and speaks :
With all due deference to her Majfsty the Queen, he
wished fhe would fled out a more suitable wav of honouring
the memory of the lide Prince Consort then that of seeding
her sms and sons-in law to the top of a Highland mountain
in order to drink raw whisky. An annual Highland gather-
ing used to he held at Braemar, but tfcis year it was held at
Balmoral. It was bi 3 lot to be present at the festival this
year which was held in the very presence of her Majesty,
and a more disgusting scene of revolting drunkenness he
never saw in his iife. D.mnybrook in its worst traditions
could not equal the disgusting scenes he saw there with his
own eyes.
And the tottering monarchy bag to endure this.
There was a time when the small bore curate who
libelled the Royal Family would have been sent
to pound road-metal, but even an Empress now is
only a common tatur, and the most she can do Is
to express her dignified disapproval through the
penny-post.
“ T)j the dyin* lie ? ” asked somebody in
a novel. Not in N.S.W. they don’t. lo’s the
living who lie and the dying preserve a strict per-
pendicular —at the end of a rope.
Hie N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency
Co., who bought certain freehold p.orerty in Mel-
bourne B'X years ago, have just sold out and made
£86,000 on their bargain— represeniiog a dividend
of abouo 17s. 6d. per share, or equal to a year and
a half s ordinary dividend.
Tne S.A. elitor again slings it into his
“loa hsome contemporary ” :
The most detestable creature that has life is a sycrphant;
and ot all sycuhants the sp rting editor of the is
most thcrouihly and consummately detestable. For the
man who flitters an orphaa idiot to cajole it of its drool one
fe sis a certaio toleration not unmixed with respect for his
ingenuity. The chap who always speaks well of pigs in the
hop 9 that he may be permitted to share their swill and their
flsas commands admiration for his versatility of purpose.
But the reptile who grovels before cricketers—who prints
these persons r ames singly, and slobbers each with a com-
mendation individually applicable—who washes their feet
with his Ion?, lithe ticker, a .d dries them with kis3e3, this
toad, this snake, this leech, may ju tly boast of a demerit ah’,
solutely s;eu e from the telitteriog erosions of charitable in-
terpretation and allowance ! ! 1
The malarious town of Rockhampton
(Q ) seems at last to stand a fair show of being
shovelled away bodily and sown with salt. The
Fitzroy R'yer has never tmounted to much more
than a large bridge over a very small amount of
water, and now that Port Alma is riel; g to im-
portanc, tie steamers which used to come up
ia the ca-Jy dew have taken to unloading in
Keppel Bay. Also the Mayor of North Rock-
hampton has attempted lo commit suicide in
order to get out of th 9 place, and in other wajs
the city of transgression and pe’rspiraiion showa
signs of going on a sh rt cut to tte dogs.
Old Bill Campbell, of Ravenswcod (Q ), is
a cute fossicke”. If there were any go d getting,
Bill, by his perseverance and devilish cunnirg,
would Ir.ve his whack. He is a thoroughly fierce
old Scot and tremendously iroud of his name.
His chiefest pride is lhi history of his family,
which he cau tr .ee back inti remote antiqui'y,
and boast is that none o’ them ever turned
their back upon ttei? enemy, even when heating
a judicioui retreat after a marauding expedition
in quest of their neighbour’s cattle and fowls.
Like a war-horse that stiffs the bat la from afar,
old Bill was carried away by the glowing accounts
of the Kimberley goldfield, and, rolling up his
drum, was among the first in the crush to get to
that land of rough peaks and deep gorges. Bill,
like most secretive men, loved solitude, and used
to poke away Into lonely cornerp. Ho Was warned
that his predilection for fiadirg and having a lich
patch all to himself would bring him to grief some
d»y, but he had a supreme c ntempt for the
oi ioions of others, and ht Id on his way. One day,
while sitting ia a deep gully, balancing his
accounts, and having a snack from off the
back cf his inverted dish, which was placed
between his legs, and turned info an
impromptu dining-table, Bill was suddenly
startled by an infernal crash. Looking down, he
beheld a quivering spear rlghf through the tin
di-h and into the ground beyond, and the rattle*
of several others that fell among the rocks around.
Ia a moment Bills ears were saluted by hideous
yells, and thjn he saw half-a-dozen niggers on a
high bank close to him, preparing to give him
another volley of spears. Then did old Bill Camp-
be 1 curse his feby In not bringing his revolver;
but, nothing daunted, he seized his long-handled
shovel, and brand shed it over his head as if to
charge the niggers But, seeing the.t they evidently
meant to make v ecison of him, he took a bee-lina
for home, with the darkies “full split” af:er him.
In that moment of exoi'ement Bill quite forgot
ancestral pride atd dignify —wiih his back to
hla foes he ran for dear life Fortunately, the
yells of his pursuers attracted the attention of a
party that happened to be in the vicinity, who
hastened to his succour. A week after this, Bill
returned to camp one eveni g to find his tent,
tucker, and horse had been stolen. He had some
hard times after that, bat got back to civilisation
at last. Whenever his friends want to Bee him
blow off steam, tbey refer to Kimberley, and the
old hoy sta'ts off at a tangent, to the intense
delight of his audience.
The Croydon (Q.) goldfield is a lively place
where something is always in progress. One day
it is the two beBk3 who are doing the wild-cat act
in the street, and clawing each other to flinders,
and the next the spite of the rival editors breaks
loose, and, a'ter a long course of inky and “ inky-
herenh” reflections upon each other’s character, one
attacks his neighbour wi h a cowhide, a razor, a
poker, and two hammers, and the assaulted party
defends himself with a club, a tcythe, three
bricßs, tnd a large bull-pup. This amusement)
has hardly bad time to subside, and tbe editors
have ju3t got back to their respeotive offices and
commenced two articles on “ The Necessity for
Better Police Protection,” when a digger strolls
into the dining-room of the hotel, and there find-
ing a perfect stranger putting hash into his
features, he thinks it necessary to jerk his head
forward and empty the remains of the dinner
down the back of his neck. This naturally leads
to more trouble, and shortly afterwards a man is
seen going up the street carrying the most of his
ear wrapped in a newspaper, and inquiring for
the doctor. Most of the time a big man is trying
to tear down the post-office because there isn’t a
letter for Terence O’Murphy, and when he has gone
another man breaks all the windows because there
is no telegram for Cornelius O’Flynn. At all
hours of the day and night two men, who never
saw each other before, may be found fightirg 18
rounds down the street, simply because one of
them was sitting on the edge of the footpath with
bis feat fornin t him in the kennel—praise be to
the saints 1 - and the other kem lurchin’ round the
corner, like the red-nosed hog that he is, as ye
may persave b 7 the patch on the back o’ his
part 3. Wbea a Fenian lies down hopelessly
drunk in the street it is ten chances to one that
an Orangeman o; mes along, and sings “ Boyne
Water” to him till he struggles in imbecile efforts
to rise and punch his head, and, at Bny moment,
the doer of a hotel may be dragged violently open
wh le the landlord fires out a newly an .ved dude
who has paralysed the establishment by asking for
sherry-and-bittera, and, as hs isn’t at all particular
whom he fires him against, and as the man whom
he is fired agalrst is bound in honour to “ put a
head on him,” there is a little f un now and then
from this souice alsj. At the pub. trere are
always about six profane diggers making love to
the domestic calamity who draws the muddy beer
at the bar, and there is invariably a Chinan an in
trouble for stealing gold, who is hauled screaming
through the streets, and who desires to swear by
his own Joss and the whi'e mans Joss, ar d to
make a chickeu-slaying affidavit as well, that it
wasn’t him-he no stealea, he choppee woed Ar-
tificial civilisation has not reach d Croydoa yet,
and the fresh, unspoiled child of nature is
supreme But, alas! this state of things cam ot
endure for ever, and the s nv, le intoeent rowey,
who is ready tr nn three miles and swallow a
kitten for a pot cf b”cr, will so n be a 111 ng of 1 e
bu .ed ,as:
By the River.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I lie by the stream, S 3 dismal and dank,
To myself unchanged, j eh when strangers see
My lurking place 'neath the caving bank
They floe in a flight from my grave and me.
Slow at my feet rolls the slimy stream,
’Neath the clustering myalls that line the
shore,
And ’midst the boulders I lie and dream,
And the worms are my guests for evermore.
Over my head the green branches wave
With a hum like th 9 noise of a breaking ssa,
And the carrion birds by my oren gr >va
Sing dolorous songs to the river and me.
It is lonely here in this leafy hall,
Bat the voice of the gale is loud and free,
And when evening shades on the fcrest fall
We hold high revel—the Devil and me.
And my fleshless lips wear a smile alway,
While stiff on the rotten bank I slumber,
And the leaves and I together decay
’Mid tints of gold and funereal umber.
Where I fell I lie, the dark rolling waters
Still whisper the tale cf that tragedy,
While earth's unheeding sons aEd daughters
Paes laughingly by my grave and me.
So I lie here and wait—l have waited long—
For the second coming of that branded Cain,
And his hated presence shall make me strong,
At his hated voice I shall rise aga'n,
Then my bony arms shall be round him cast,
And the vengeance of God shall awaken at last;
And his corpse will rot by the blackened shore,
And his face will be seen among men no more,
And sharing with me my bed of clay,
His bones will be found on the Judgment Day ;
And the carrion birds will join in my glee
SiDglng dolorous songs to the river and me.
In A M. WILDMAN.


NOTICE
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoining “Bulletin”
Office, Pitt-street. Apply, this Office.
ROLLER
SKATES
' /^Srm
V
ROLLER
SKATES.
PAIRS in stocK. Best Skate ever
imported to Australia. The
celebrated “WINNER” ROLLER SKATES,
complete with all recent Improvements. Adopted
by the leading American Rinks for reason of their
Perfect Action, Durability, Lightness, and Ele-
gance. Intending purchasers should order now
for next season, before lines are broken. For sale
to Rinks and Dealers in lots to suit, at prices that
defy competition, by the manufacturers. MUNCIE
ROLLER SKATE CO., 205 Clarence-street, Sydney
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDERA, N.S. W
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets every train
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
Clgrax Divan
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
CASTLE RE AGH STREET.
A Good Night's Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY'S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particulars
see future announcements.
Instruction given In the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reach of all who
desire a knowledge of the soienoe of self-defence.
Classes now open.
Whim iw Sydney, nr tod miss Foun'a you
Havi not skin thn city.
PSALMS.
(REVI3ED).
TTEAR this, all ye people, and give ear all ye
invalids of the world, bell’s bitters will
make you well atd to rejoice.
2. It shall cure all the people and put sickness
and Buffering under foot.
3. Be thou not afraid when your family Is
sick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell’s bitters will cure you.
I. Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of bell’s bitters for bilious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints.
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and I shall
have robust and blooming health.
6. Add disease upon disease and let the worst
come, I am safe if I use bell's bitters.
7. For all my life have I been plagued with
sickness and sorep, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell's bitters.
8. Ha that keepeth his bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
9. Though thou hast sores, pimples, freckles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blocd poisoning, yet bell’s
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman is there, feeble and sick from
female complaints, who desireth not health and
useth bell's bitters and is made well.
11. Lot not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver complainta.
12. Keep tne tongue from being furred, thy
blood pui e, and thy stomach from indigestion by
using BELL S BITTERS.
BUTCHER, FEHCN, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALKS & QUEENSLAND.
Vital Questions 111!
Ask the most eminent Physician
Of any school, what is the best thing in the
world for quiet it g and allaying all irritation of the
nervep, and curmg all forms of nervous complaints,
giviDg natural, childlike refreshing sieeo always ?
And they will tell you unhesitatingly
“ Some form of Hops ! ! !"
chapter i.
Ask any or all of the most eminent physicians
“ What is the best and only remedy that can be
relied on to cure all diseases of the kidneys and
urinary organs ; such as Br ght’s disease, diabetes,
retention, or inability to retaia urine, and all the
diseases and ailments peculiar to Women ”
And they will tell you explicitly and emphati-
cally “ Buchu."
Ask the same physicians
“ What is the most reliable and surest cure for al
liver diseases or dyspepsia ; constipation, indiges-
tion, biliousness, malaria, fever, ague, &c.,’’and
they will tell you :
Mandrake or Dandelion ! ! ! /
Hence when these remedies are combined with
others equally valuable,
And compounded into Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters, such a wonderful and mysterious cura-
tive power is developed, which is so varied in its
operations that no disease or ill-health can possibly
exist or resist its power, and yet it is
Harmless for the most frail woman, weakest in-
valid or smallest child to use.
CHAPTER 11.
“ Patients
"Almost dead or nearly dying”
For years, and given up by physicians, of Bright’s
and other kidney diseases, liver complaints, severe
coughs, called consumption, have been cured.
Women gone nearly crazy ! ! / / /
From agony of neuralgia, nervousness, wakeful'
ness, and various diseases peculiar to women.
People drawn out of shape from excruciating pangs of rheu
matism, inflammatory and chronic, or suffering from scrofula
Erysipelas
" Saltrheum, blood poisoning, dyspepsia, indigestion and
in fact, almost all diseases frail'
Nature is heir to
Hare been cured by Dr. Soule’s Hop Bitters, psoof of whioh
can be found in every neighborhood ia the known world.
None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown In
the bottle. Bxwabx of all the vllepolsonoue stuff
made bo Imitate the above.
SMOKE AND OHEW
MTtiilWT
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
A>R h/iy
0 &
navy
CUT TOBACCOS.
On receipt of P. 0. Order for £1 la we will
Immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTURE
in |lb. Packets, noted for its fine flavour, together
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE in
oase. And a nice TOBACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS’ CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
Jib. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the oclony upon receipt of
P. O. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us, and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS. CIGARS, PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATCH BOXES,
and
411 other artioles apertaining to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
if only to inspect these. We have almost every
kind of stick obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying in price from fid. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line.
We oan furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We recommend'you to send for one of our razors,
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
HAIRDRESSERS.
N.B.—Hair made up in any design,
OWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
GEAIB IP mm,
• !
Tobacconists’ and llalrdressers’
Sundrymen,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulbum streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
OUT THE ADDRESS OUT
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and oonsider them moßt
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S.
Fort Adelaide, Ootober 30 1886.
England.
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure in reoom t-
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been 1
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,,
and been under several doctors for it without any 1
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them, —
Yours,
m O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at laßt, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who sure afflicted as I have
»een may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
Messrs, Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
R
ows
EMBROCATION
%
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. YOUNQ LADIES can take
this when suffering from general debility. It’s
only a pure tonic. Try it.
READ CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
“Having carefully examined a bottle of ROW’S
‘STEANE”S’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any in-
jurious chemieils, too often used in such prepara-
tions. They t-hould become a favorite drink in
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Row’s Steane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
TEETOTALLERS will find thiß newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Edward Row & Company,
18. 15. 17. GBORGE-STRKET. SYDNEY,
A chunk of useless Information from
Sydney E. News “ Tie a fresh onion around the
neck, and bruise it to make its odor thorough,
and you secure sound sleep from nightly inhala-
tion.” An asafoetida poultice placed on the che
and oovered with the skin of a polecat is al
said to produce the sweetest slumbers. When t:
artificial aids to “ Nature's sweet restorer
Cannot be had the best thing to do is to secure
bedroom with a window overlooking a Woolio
mooloo sewer.
A young fellow named M‘Neil recent
jumped into the front rank of English bllliar;
players by winning a tournament in splendid sty 1
The inevitable match between M‘Ntil and Job
Roberts, jun., wts then arranged, the champic
giving 5000 in 12,000-spot-barred. Roberts d
feated the newa pirant by 1500 points, and is r
ported to have shown finer play than ever. Scu
lers, swimmers, shooters, runners enjoy their litt
hour of pre-eminence and drop into obscurity
but two champions—W. G. Grace and Jac
Roberts—have held their place while babies hav
grown up to be young men and marriageab’
maidens. Considering the nature of Roberts’ oc
cupation, that he lives the best part of his life i
a vitiated atmosphere, and under a strong ga
glare, he must have a wonderful constitution. B
doesn’t inherit ic from that tough veteran, John
Roberts, sen., for the old man is his stepfathe
only.
A saved Chinaman, of whom better thing
were expected, went on a wholesale and reta
drunk recently in a N. Z. township, and the wa;
he carried on will be remembered when a gooc
many other memories have passed away. 1
Chinaman doesn t go on a druok the same way a
a white man, and this particular Chow had evi
denfcly never been t'ght before. He was simpl'
trying an experiment. In the first place, he wen
into a brewery and bought a whole keg of beer
and then he took out the plug in the middle of the
street and, rolling the keg on top of himself
poured the beer into his face until he contained
about three quarts, after which he left the cask
standing in the middle of the road, and cleared
the deck for action. A policeman’s dignity is i
holy thing, but when a somnolent “cop”camebask
Ing round the corner, this Chinaman gave a
whoop and slogged him in the jaw, thereby beirg
guilty of drunkenness and disorderly conduct, dia
turbing the peace, obscene language, obstructing
the street, rioting, and assault with intent to com
mit homicide, also tearin’ me uniform, grievous
bedily harm, and interfering with an officer in the
execution of his duly. He found a tabby oat
sleeping on a window sill a moment later, and bit
off two-tniids of its tail, whereupon it let a dismal
screech out of itself, and next he rolled his keg
•of be9r down hi 1, and laughed as It travelled
along at the rale of several mile 3 in a very short
time, and scrunched an old lady beneath its
flying form. He b.cke three windows with an
axe, and split a deg down the back, and then he
took off eome of his clothes and stood up in a
public thoroughfare. Solomon in all hi 3 glory
was not arrayed like him, and if he had been in
N.S W. he would have been flogged. A little
later he was heard of ljing down in the parlour
of an elderly maid-n lady, but when she found
him and screamed, he left through the window,
caps'ziog a horse-load of bric-a-brac wi h hi 3
flying heels, and bac.ed a cart filled with road-
scrapings ioto a ba,.k. A policeman loomed up in
the distance about this time, bat the hinaroan
ate a part of him b e oro he succeeded ia stunning
him wit hms club. In the lock-up the reccllec
tions of his Sunday-school lessons began to co ne
bacx to him, and he shook the building with his
yells, and staged with curses that he wanted to
get out and s-ai-d dr.nks all round for the Scribes
and Pnarisees Then he wept, and broke every-
thing in his cell, and tried to hang himself, bat
was cut down in time, and finally he weLt to
sleep as peacefully as an infant, and woke up next
morning to get three months from a cold bed
supercilious beak. There are a good many points
about a Chinese drunk, but the purchase uf a
Whole keg of bee-, the greater part of which he
merely rolled downhill instead of drinking it,
shows how terribly behind the age is ths Chow of
the nineteenth century.
“ I can't make out how Harry goes on, Tom,
Before Xmas. I knew him to be insolvent, now he
smiles his old smile, and his business seems to be
flourishing anew." “My boy, that matter has
puzzled many, but I know what saved Harry ”
“I suppose the father-in-law paid up again?”
“Oh dear, no. Harry put £1 ia ‘Australia’s’
Consultation, and drew Yespacia. The £l5OO
saved him, and, as there is one of £5OOO on the
Anniversary Handle ip I, too, mean to speculate."
Address —“ Australia,” ca~e of Mr. H. Dalveen,
315 J Gtorge-btxee , Sydney N.S. W.*
" The Paris House, Bituate in Phillip-street,
Sydney, now ranks as the only flrst class restau-
rant, conducted on ent«re'y French principled, in
the city. The table d’hote is served every day, in-
ducing ever)thing that makes French rookery
desirable for the moderate charge of 2d. 6d. Pri-
vate ro ims for dinners and suppers ; suppers after
the theatre, if ordered, and extra dinners in the
highest art of French cuisine can be obtained
every day, including Sundays. The management
Is under the supervision of the’prDprietor, Mr. O.
Dssneux, late of the Palace Hotel, San Francisco
(the largest hotel in the world), who will ensure
every comforb and attention to his guests.*


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO All THELEADIHC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
RISBANe
m
naiNva
K 3
i&i
a
1
•am
111
/MS
S 3
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
or THE
Horn*
TUSE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies, Ladies’ Drawing-room, of the Brisbane River and
™ Tatß One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and ftentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. fe, COMIERC DANIELL.
La,™. .»a crr«».«ai™ ao " -
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL
George-street, Haymarkefc
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Conductorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
AGENTS WANTED
To handle our fast selling lines. Special induce-
ment offered to first-class salesmen.
Full particulars on application to
. IB- JOITSS,
6 BRIDGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
B V SHOULD Y USE } PEMELLT
EXTRA SUPERFINE
PL O XT IB I
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill replete with the newest and most approved
N*w Process Machinery,
The PRICE is VERY LOW, and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
Vlo^ oltl,rA FLOUR mill
831 George street, Sydney.
JUST IMPORTED,
500 CRICKET BATS,
10/6 each,
All-cane spliced Handles in 16 pieces,
TENNIS RACQUETS, BALLS, &c,
Equally Choap and Good.
BtJRROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George St., Hunter St, Sydney.
ft
HiK I L B
• (late of the DeteotlrelForoe'
Frlnte Inquiry, Missing Friends, and Genera)
Business Agency Office,
II ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
tfcsconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds oi
Kmfldentlal Inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained li
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal prc
Mon and others. Copies of wills, oertifioates of birth
ssarrlage, or death, obtained in any part of the world
Rents and debts collected. From R. Mkfe.’s lon* experieno-
in the Detective Faroe of New South Wales, Victoria, am'
Hew Zealand, and established azenoies In all parts of Up
globe, he is in a position to oonduot all inquiries with oautior
i spsUiMun and striotest seoresy, and to faithfully., anf
■ fpswp*- m attend to all business entrusted to h sars.
after before
96
Copyrighted. \
Moustache and Whiskers.
Boyd 1 8 Beard Elixir did this.
i md will do it on either bald
head or bare face- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000
_ . _ _ young men already wear full __ . _
beards, having used Ito 3 pkts. jS r o injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 6 d. each , 3 for 3s. 6d., post paid , sent under
cover, free from observation . Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent,
Box 730. G. P. 0., Sydney, N S. *r.
BEFORS dFiu.i
Copyrighted.
MOULTO
tIVTO COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTOi
FRUIT PILU3. We mean cured, not merely relieved, v
»e oan prove whet we nay. Thera ere uo [allures aui) i
disappointment*. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also re
all BILIOUSNKSB, prevent CONSTIPATION end DY
PEPSLA, promote DKJBSTTON, relieve dlstrcee from l
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the 6TO.MAC
atlmulate the LIVKR, regulate the BOWBLS, and PI'RIP
tub BLOOD. The Cheapeet and Rent Family Medle»
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Frv
' They are on Dearly port not ur It 1b peoelhle for a Pill to tra.
Said Kveurywtoetrm, E'rteev 80. 3tafiL
C. E. MOULTON Sole Propriety
PIL
Ashfield recreation ground and
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
SKATING. SKATING.
SKATING. SKATING.
The largest and finest Skating Rink in the
Colony. Large stock of new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
| Admissission : GRAND STAND and GARDEN
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds Illuminated by Electric
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
o» Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
Grand centennial intercolonial
EXHIBITION.
To be held by
THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES,
AT MOORE PARK,SYDNEY,
from January 24 to January 31, 1888.
ENTRIES in all Seotions CLOSE on SATURDAY,
JANUARY 7, at 4 p.m. £5OOO IN PRIZES.
There being some SEVEN HUNDRED (700)
FIRST PRIZES in the List, exclusive of all
CHAMPION PRIZES, and Seconds.
For Advance Condensed Prize Schedule see
“Town and Country Journal” of December 10.
“ Sydney Mail” of December 10. “ Tribune of
December 16. Complete Schedule (in pamphlet
form) giving full information, may be obtained
from the various Agricultural Societies through
out the colony, and from the SECRETARY,
Hunter-street. JUDGING DAY—TUESDAY,
JANUARY 24. Grand Opening Ceremonial by
His Excellency, Lord Caricgton, on WEDNES-
DAY, JANUARY 25, at Noon. Various Lines of
Coasting and Intercolonial Steamers have agreed
to carry exhibits to and fro on payment of freight
one way, and the council hope to obtain from the
Government Special Concessions on Rail Carriage of
Exhibits and Visitor’s Rail fares. Exhibits bred
or produced in Australia will be in Competition
for Centennial Special and Champion Prizes, also
for the Regular Schedule prizes.
ADMISSION—Members Free on Presentation
of Ticket. Judging Day— Non-Members. 2s. 65. ;
Children, Is. All other Days— Non-Members, Is.;
Children, 6d.
The EXHIBITION will be Open at 11 a.m„ and
CLOSE at 5 p.m. Each Day.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Tattersall’B Buildings, Hunter-steeet, Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel Is constructed on the most modern principles
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraul Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
“The
BEAD
Enterprise,
AND
“Australian Land Nationaliser.
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
IT la the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. It
objeot la to firmly Inaugurate In Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform—to d
for these oolonles what the Standard Is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the oolony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It Is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at het„rt
should get It, and induce others to do so. Everybody interes r ed in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association Is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hibition First
Frier Gold Medal,
Cooper & McLeod's
India Pale
Ale.
EODXISrBTJRQ-BL-
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
in bulk
and case.
Best BEER
in the Market,
drawn by all
leading Kobe
CADEMY OF MUS I C.
Lessee and Manager ... F. E. HiscockF.
TO-NIGHT, LAST NIGHT HUT ONE
of the Great and Only MACCACE,
in his wor'd-renowned Entertainment
“BEGONE DULL CARE.”
GRAND FAREWELL PROGRAMME.
Prices I 35., 25., and Is. Reserved Seats, 4s.
Theatre royal,
Under the Dlreotton of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar,
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOE
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Prices : —Dress circle, 5 i. ; Stalls, 3s ; Circle, Is.
QBITKKION
Sole Proprietor
Business Manager ...
THEATRE.
Mr. Join Solomon
Mr. Joe Davis.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1888,
AND EVERY EVENING.
OUR HOLIDAY ATTRACTION,
JACK SHKPPaRI\ Jack SHEPPARD.
JACK SHEPPARD ... Miss FANNY ROBINA
BLUESKIN Mr. E. W. ROYCE
supported by the ENTIRE BURLESQUE
COMPANY.
THE SPLENDID CHORUS OF 60 VOICES.
THE MAGNIFICENT ORCHESTRA,
under the Baton of
Mr. F. STANISLAUS.
Box plan in the Office of the Theatre
seats may be reserved from 10 to 4.
where
4 LHAMBRA MUSIC HALL.
George-street, Baymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THIS GREAT LATJGH CREAIOR
NIGHTLY CROWDED
Nl H CLY CROWDED
MGHILY CROWDED
to see
THIS BOUNDLESS CONTINENT OF PUN,
THIS MONARCH ENTERTAINMENT,
in its
THIRD YE A R OF CVERW HELMING SUCCESS,
and vte cin prove it.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Bad cony, 6d.
o
PERA HOUSE.
Corner of York and King Streets.
Frank Clark Lessee.
EYBRY EYENtNG.
SUCCESS OF OUR THIRD CHANGE.
NEW fcONGS NEW JOKES
NEW BALLADS NEW FC OLISHMENTS.
THE DUMMIES THE DUMMIHS,
WILSON and CAMERON S SCREAMER.
FIELDS and HANSON
in a new wonderment.
THE SLEIGH BELLS,
THE SLEIGH BELLS
the only performances In the w orld upon these
bells.
Performance at 8 sharp ; terminates at 10.20.
Admission—is., 35., and Is.
Box plan at Nioho'son’s.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison,
Doorß open 7.; Performance 8 j Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
, and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prioes, 5b., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nioholson'B and Co.’s,
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUII/ I-iG
TPE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia,
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is. .


YOU KNOW B
Or yon ought to. Thare la a papular belief
which in some case3 perhaps is a delusion, tha
you have always a healthy and well-developec
reason on hand for the performauc3 of ih'sc
duties or pleasures which you are pleased tc
imagine distinguishes you from your fellows. You
sit down when you are tired, go to bad when you
are sleepy, laugh when you are merry, eat when
you are hungry, and drink when you are dry.
Possibly you drink stme.imes when you are not
exactly dry, but when you have some other
equally sound and cogent reason for it. Perhaps
you ara just “ a trifls off” owiag to your re30 be-
ing disturbsd by the youngest, who is teething, or
it may be you ara somewhat enervated by the
heat during a prolonged attendance on your wife
through a shopping tour. But, whatever the
reason, it is yours, and you have a parfact right
to If. You want a drink that will jevive and
invigorate you, something that will dispel the
sense of fa igue and make youfael a3 “fii” as the
oft quoted fildle. Instinctively you think of
Clausen's Champagne Lager Bser, bsciuse you
have heard and read so much about it, aid your
friends have spoken sc highly in its favour.
Your instincts are !rus and goal, jon drink it,
and henceforward you never think of asking for
anything else when you want a p lr j honest drink
made from straight out m alt and hops. And hav-
ing discovered its value, you keep it In the house
as well, and you prefer to pay a few penes a
dozen mors for it, because in the exerci33 of your
everyday common sense y:u kiow that a really
good thing i3 always worth more than a doubtful
one. You feel that you can rely on it, and that
the statements mads by competent an horities
with regard to its purity and invigorating qualities
are amply sustained by the gnod name and popu-
larity it has so long enjoyed ; and, because you
ara a sensible man, you shy at ihoig brands which
have to lower their pric33 to get into consum ption.
Ia nothing so much as in what you drink is there
the same possibility of terrible hnj ary to health,
and nowhera Is the danger greater than In the
low class brands of Lager Beer. You can always
get tha genuine Clausen's New York Chamoagne
Lagar Beer from Messrs. Mason Brothers, limited,
Fe3q and Co., Tooth and Co , Alio and Co., Bur
rows and Gleeson, Lucas Brothers, R. Butcher
and Co,, J. T and J. Toohey and Co., Tidswell,
Wilson, and Co., A. Thompson and Co , C, Bath
and Co., Cooper, Nathan,and Co., Dareey and Co.,
A. Rowan and Co., Tucker and Co., Stawart and
Co.,De Lissa and Phi lips, and others.
“The Waferbury.”
kv
wmjf
i-
Indignant Music Teaciidd. “ Well, vliat now ?
What have you brbtight that watch for ? ”
I trriL (given to teasing). “ You said I didn’t
Icrj r/ood time , so I have brought my Wateuburt.
If anything will beep good time, that will.”
ANYBODY CAN APPLY
A long string of adjectives In a description ot
the most worthless rubbish for the purpose of be-
guiling soft-headed people into spending their
money. But there is only one Watcrb uy Wat-b.
One low-priced time keeper which time and ex-
perience together have proved to be worthy of ah
the high eulogiums passed upon it by people, press,
and pulpit. Put your boLtom dollar on the Water-
bury. It will never go back on you. All store-
keepers and dealers keep i% and Messrs T. Willis
and Co ; 8 Hoffnucg and Co., and Fsldheiir,
Gothelf and Co., spII In wholesale. The addrets tf
the Wa'e bury Watch Repair Depot is 56,
Margaret-slreet, Sydney.
&
f’\
U
Dixon’s American Graphite Pencils possesses all
tie racomaceadaUons that a perfect pencil should
hive, aid none of the exasperating eccjntrici.ies
common to so many other brands.
All the aboriginal blacks at Fratnlingham
(Vic.) are members of the Shearers Union.
Mr. Kenneth Mackay’s “ Stirrup Jingles ”
has been a financial sucsess. Several thousand
copies already have been sold.
«ag"i fir
BARBER (completing along and interesting Story)} “AND I SHAYED THE DECEASED,
SIK, AiND HE MADE A LOVELY CORPSE—HE DID INDEED, SIR, YOU
WOULDN’T BELIEVE ’
SUiFERER IN CHAIR: “DIDN’T THAT BEA.STLY SAW OF YOURS WAKE HIM
UP? NO ORDINARY C0RP3E COULD STAND IT.”
A man with a burglar grieve nee writes in
a Sydney daily that he observed a midnight
prow.’er approach h ! a open wiDdow ard peep care-
fully Id. He adds : “ As it happened there were
no ladies in ihe room, but there might have
bsen." Just so ; there might have been !
One Reason
Wly disaases of the bladder and urinary organs
are so eifhoult to cure is that they frequently
have no pronounced symptoms Dk. bell's
{Kidney and Liver) buthus are peculiarly
adapted to the cur* cf these complaints and go
at cnce to the seat of the trouble, giving relief at
once.
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
Tatferrall's Monster Consult .tions. —Anniversa y Handi-
cap, 2001 subs , at 20s each. Also, Anniversary Handicap
10,000 subs , at 20s. each. Both now oper, and filling rapidly
Apply Tattersal), care G. Adams, Pitt-Btreet.*
William's Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simplein aptl cation—bu etn efL-ct. This ia the only genuine
Inseot Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprt her si rn
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the furrea of the burnt powder, while
throwing oil a pleasant odour, are at the s.metimrmost
dest uctive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chen istt and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams,
Fharmaceutic»lChemiBt,257 King-street-, Newtown Whole-
sale from Mets-s K liott Bros , and E. Prosser & Co.*
HAUNTED ME.
A working man says: “Deb 1 ., joverky and etHiring
haunted me for years, caused by a sick family and Urge bi Is
fer doctoring, which did no good- I was cotniletely dis-
couraged. until one year ago, by the advice of my pastor, I
procured Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters and commenced
tbeir use, and in one month we were til well, and none of us
have been sick a day since; and I want to say to ad poor
men, you can keep i our families well a year with Dr Soules
American Hon Bitters for less than one doctor's visit will
co6t. “ Chris tian Advocate. 1 ’
Another rivet in the bonds of Imperial
Slavery. The Naval Defence Bill is to be rushed
through the N.Z. Parliament, so that Admiral
Fairfax may make some 'suggestions to the
Colonial Ofliee flunkeys, as to establishing a naval
station in N, Z. The Press, as usual, puts the
paople off the scent by jerking in the desirability
of being prepared against that attack which is
always coming, and which never comes ; bob not
a word is said about the burden which the colony
is to shoulder by taking a hand in the intrigues of
the corrupt Old World.
PREJUDICE KILLS.
Eleven years our daughter suffered on a bed of misery
under the care of several of the best (and some of the worst
physicians, who gave her ditease various names but no relief,
and now she is restored to us in good h *alth by as simple a
r medy as Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters, that we had
pcohed at for two years, before us'usr it We earnt stly hope
and pray that no ono else will let their s'ck suffer as we o'id,
on account of prejudice agiiost so g ;od a mt dicine as Dr.
Sou’e's American Hop Bitters." The Parents “ Telegram."
A Good Remedy for a Cold —On going to bed take a
dote of Freeman's Ohlorodyue, either in water or camphor
mixture. The dial horetio action of this excellent remedy
Bpeediiy produces a general glow, followed by a free pei spira-
tim, during which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night's sleep is obtained
and on waking in the morning the co d will be found to have
disap earered. The ce.tainty of the action of Freeman’s
Chlorodjce is very rem.rkablo in Ague; it frequently pre-
vents an attack, or, fail.ng this, reduces the violence of the
atue fit to a minimum. In many countries F eeman s
Cclorodyne has entirely superseded the use of Quinine, and
in the tea gardens rf India no'hing else is given fur Agu >
and other forms of Fever. A Physician writes, “ In a sub
tropical climate, such as New South Wales, Freeman's
Chlorodyne is simply invaluable "—So d every where through-
out >he OolonLs. Insist uion having “freeman's" only
Rejec" substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, aii
1 lephant.
Consumption, Wasting Diseases and General
Debiii.y —Doctors disagree as to the relative value of
Cod Liver Oil and Hypophosphitesthe one supplying
strength and flesh, the other giving nerve j ower and acting
as a tonic to the digestive and entire system But in
“ Scott s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil with
Hypophosphites " the two are combined, and th j effect is
wonderful. Thousands who have derived no permanent
benefit from other preparations have been cure! by this
Scott’s Emulsion is perfectly pal. table and is easily
digested even by those who cannot tolerate plain Cod Liver
Oil. Sold by all Chemists, two sizes, large and small.*
Mat y Meaiclnea
Now on the market owe what virtue they possess
to the presenre of poweiful end poisonous drugs.
1 R. bill’s (Kidtey and Liver) ijttfrs are
purely vegatable, and will not irjure the feeblest
and most delicate person.
o
&S
1
28*30 Colony.
BRIDL£ F Y
WIIRKS S]' ** 1 4J ll C I .
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TECH BRIGHTON OP TST.B_W-
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Sappers. Private Dinners, Evening Parth s, &0., are
served on the shortest notioe in the Large Dining Hall, Besides having a most recherche
dinner, yon oan enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you oan have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Dlonic parties provided. Table
ds Hote at 1 o clock daily and Sundays. No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors oorofort able, and her Hotel the best in the Co'onr,
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
fJIO COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS
AND
CASH WHOLE SA IE BUORS.
I hava the following DEPARTMENTS in ful
swing, and the GOODS are upon
show, ready for inspection
at my New Warehouse,
608 GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
JOHN LAWLER.
DEPARTMENT A.
FURNITURE of EVERY DESCRIPTION
FRAMEWORK of EVERY DESCRIPTION
AUiTRIiN CHAIRS ard 1 OUNGKS
AMERICAN CHAIRS and ROCKERS
FURNITURE COVERINGS
PIER GLASSES, TOILET GLASSES
OVERMANTELS, PICTURES
Cl OCRS and BRONZES
ORNAMENTAL WARE.
DEPARTMENT b.
FURNISHING IRONMONGERY
SILVER and ELECTRO-PLATED WARE
CCTLBRY and DESERT SERVICES
EARTHENWARE, GLASSWARE
CHINA WARE, TEA SETS
DINNER SERVICES, BREAKFAST SETS
TINWARE, BRUSHWARE
HOLLOWARE, MANGLES
COPPER FURNACES, TUBS, and BUCKETS.
DEPARTMENT 0.
IRON, BRASS and NICKEL BEDSTEADS
CHILDREN’S and YOUTH’S COTS
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATTRESSES
BEDDING, MATTRESSES and PALLIASSES
KAPOK. HORSEHAIR, FLOCK, FIBRE end
FLAX
MOSQUITOE CURTAINS and NET
SHEETS, BLANKETS, COUNTERPANES.
DEPARTMENT D.
CARPETS, MATS and MATTING
LINOLEUM, FLOORCLOTHS, RUGS
JAPANESE and CHINA BLINDS
TAPESTRIES, VELVETS, HAIRCLOTHS
UPHOLSTERERS’ TRIMMINGS
CORNICE POLES, ART BLINDS
WINDOW CURTAINS and HANGINGS.
DEPARTMENT E.
GENERAL DRAPERY, LACES, &C.
LINENS, CALICOES, MUSLINS
DEPARTMENT F.
MERCERY, TIES and SCARVES
READY-MADE CLOTHING
HATS, CAPS and GLOVES
SHIRTS, COLLARS, CUFFS, STUDS
SJ3IRTS a d UNDERCLOTHING.
DEPARTMENT G.
BOOTS and SHOES :
COLONIAL, ENGLISH,
FRENCH, GERMAN,
LACES, POLISH. &c.
Apply for CATALOGUES.
JOHN LAWLER,
(108 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


X xnport©,xxt!
Good News to Lovers of Music
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS
THE 03ST3L,-3r
MUSICAL lIBTMEI
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNE
Beg to inform their many patrons and the pub
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate
Sept. 30th; they will sell
3HEAPER THAN EVEI
>' - «
o
ACCORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21
26/-, 30/-, 40/-, to 436.
Speciality i Patent steel noted Aocordeon, doub
Z-~ bellows, 27/6.
m Patent German Silver Reeded A
cordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
■
/fl, 6/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/-, 17/6, 21/-, 26/
30/-, 36/-, 40/-, up to 4316.
Genuine Laohenal Anglo German 35
„ „ steel notes 50
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to 4820.
peoialty j Old copy Violin, with case,
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
fc/-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 30/
up to 4312 12s.
Speciality i Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo
60s.
1/6, 8/6, 6/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/., 15/-, up to 437 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case,
by best English maker, for 432 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
808
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
him mi mis,
Which oan be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/6,4/-, 4/6,
6/- and 5/6 a set,
Single ones in proportion,
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Buitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Mar, &0., So.
Braes and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of posts
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
VYDXK/
Q
JEctemt on Scalp,
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
ft!
Scrofula on Neck*
PIMPLES to SCROFULA]
rjIBWGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
XJ tion», Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly f Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Outicuka Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticura and Outicuka Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’,Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Outicuka Soap and a single application of
Cutioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Outicuka Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
Of my disfiguring humors; have had the beet phy
•icians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
R. Towns St Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES* , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henc®
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Gbeat Skin Cube (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies 1
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead., zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
dmgrdflts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Z'jA:. id, Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1 . YJ■ Cuticuba Soap, 25 cents; Cuticuba Shav-
ing- I’ovr, 15 cents; Cuticuba Resolvent, $l.OO
pei bottle.
Pbepabkd *t the
Potter Dr ag Jt Chemical Co., Boston, U. 8.1.
The
‘POTSHOT*
Camera,
*Z>i
m.
SE
92
IS the Latest Novelty in the Photographic World. It is small, strong, very simple, handsomely got
up, and atrociously effective both on friends and on enemies. Six circular pictures, each about the
size of a crown piece, can be taken on one plate with most astonishing speed and perfect accuracy.
This Camera can be worn under a coat or dress, the lens projecting through a button-hole cannot be
obeerved, and the simple action of pulling a cord hands down to either reverence or ridioule every
incident included within the scope of its vision. The “POTSHOT” Camera is not a toy, but a
really serviceable instrument of the class known as “ DBTECTIVB ” Cameras. At the same time
an immense amount of fun can be got out of it, and photographs of people and things obtained with
ease which are practically impossible by any other method. A limited number only have been
imported by us, and they are well worth the attention of the general public.
Full particulars can be had, and goods seen, at
LICHTNER AM) 00.,
PHOTOSRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE.
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
MASON BROTHERS,
■■■■■
LIMITS*'
863 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AHD
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO. 8
Cognac.
.. T. OATEN'S
Sohnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
Mg n u k a w *
in Sranite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Somfa Railings.
Baiiani and Estimate* forwarded on naan
M, OTMJIIW®IIAI3 9
3S«AKBX-BSSUXi WnWAXS-MSTAKB, STDKBS
W'E can recommend the Imperial Hair-Cut-
ting Saloon as the beet in Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address i
Temple Building, Georga-street, six doors from
Qneena-street, A, OOOPBff, Proprietor.
GBD.SBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO..
2SI, OLARENOE-STREET.
SBD. SBO.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAfc
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipmen coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MACKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for nnnrnmtr
dal travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound In cloth, and contains over 100 presorlp
bions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex
haustion and Diseases should send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address i Doctor W. K,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, corner Bourks an t
Elisabeth Streets, Melbourne, Ylti
jjjj' KWTON and lamb.
VURHITURB and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O CONNELL STRESS S.
®T OCK of PIANOFORTES by the
MOST CELEBRATED MAKERS, NEW-
xuN and LAMB.
BAGfAIELLE BOARDS, Portable, variou
SiZdS.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, Jn various
Woods, and very handsome designs with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings bed-
room SUITES. —The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand with
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and two
Chairs. "Ihe lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionab'e Early English
designs. WARDROBE, 1 feet, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND. with marble top
and tile back and Towel Fail; TOILET TABLE,
with Swing Glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP*
BOARD and Two CANE-SEATED CHAIRS 16
guineas- '
NEWTON and DA MR,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB.
IT”®C
m
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
onfc. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WBITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
BxB, 9xB, 10 xB, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6x8,03. 6d ; BxB
93. ; 9x 8, 9?. Gd. ; 10 xB, 10s. 6d. ; 12 xB, 12s!
Cd. ;12 x 10, 15s. NEWTON and LAMB, Furni-
ture Warehousemen, Spring and u Connell streets.
PATENT
SHUTUP
CLOTHES DRYB E,
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON aid LAMB.
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard
and Verandah,
Price very low.
NEWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6 feet long,
Rustic Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
ARDLN SE ATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
\J INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.
NEW TON and LAMB.
T> ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from 155.;
At and large variety of Chairs, from 12s. 6d.
&c.; special designs, extra quality. Newton and
LAMB, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
Jc E CHESTS,
all slzss,
from 27a.
NEWTON and LAMB.
JgjXCELSIO R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
Various Sizes, from 455.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, oovered to order, in
any material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices,
NHTWTON and LAMB, Importers, O’Connell*
street.
BEDDING, all description s at Lowest Rates.
NEWTON and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
SPRISG MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, beat
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each,
NEWTON and LAMB,


Dr. Canny, lete Surgeon Royal Artillery and H.M. 11th
Regiment. 8 R 0.P.. 8M , M.R C S,, England. Registered
in Great Kmain and N.B. W. 61 Wentworth Comt Cham-
bers, Eiizabeth-ftrees (ground floor) Specialist in Diressea
cf ihe Livi r, K’doeya, &c. D'. CANNY’S long service inlthe
Tropics, &c., hus afforded him special ejperience in the
treatment ot the aboye mentioned diseases "
The Referee.
Nelson mast be allowing his feelings to
run away with his discretion in making a match
for £2OO, accepting three and a-ha)f lengths’ Btart
from Edward Hanlan over a two-miles’ oourse on
the Clarence. Hanlan will pick up the best part of
the start in the first burst.
* * •
Now that tha Port Jackson Swimming
Club is again alive, things natatorial should
hum. Already a match between young Cavil
and Kenny, of St. Kilda, Vic , is talked of for the
championship of Australia, and if the affair comes
The Proposed Tribute to Wales.—A Suggestion.
MOSESH (loq.): “YOUR HIGHNESSH, I REPRESENTSH THE PEOPLE OF AUSHTRALIA, AND WE WISHES TO PRESHENT YOUR HIGHNESSH WITH
THIS TR FLE OF SHCRIP ON THE OCCASION OF YOUR HIGHNESSH’S SHILVER WEDDING. VE’LL PUT YOU DOWN AS PROVISHIONAL
DIRECTOR, AND THERE’S MILLIONSH IN IT.”
off it should be worth going a long way to see.
Both of them have beaten Corbett, for many years
our b°.st man. wbioh proves them to be swimmers
of no mean order.
• * *
Andre Christol is offering to wrestle Con
nor, or any other man in Australia, Gioeao-Roman
Btyle—winner to take all the “gate." Tbe
veteran Frenchman's plaintive appeal ought to
fetch some sort of response.
* * •
The 18 Juniors who played Shrewsbury’s
team on the little Fitzroy ground, proved to be a
very warm crowd, vastly different to the novices
th at reoently went leather-hunting for Stoddarb
and Co. Ulyett grimly remarked that he didn’t
consider himself exactly a “colt," but he felt
capable of being a grandson to the smallest Vic-
torian “junior." With a strange matting wicket
and such matured specimens of our boys to con-
tend against, the Englishmen felt themselves to
be rather “ had,” and will probably avoid these
unsatisfactory matches in the future.
* * *
W. H. BrowD, who comes from “ the
Shore,” states that he is anxious to meet George
Seale “ to a finish for the amateur championship.
Brown is fully six feet in height and a most
powerful man, but size alone will not beat the
little phenomenon.
* * •
Gorman and 811 S'avin, “to a finish,”
was the tit-bit at Foley’s on Saturday night.
Gorman went to work directly the men put their
hands up, and there ensued tbe fastest and most
bloodthirsty first round we had ever witnessed,
Slavin havlrg the call when corners we r o called
For four rounds Slavin punished and Gorman re
oetved. but in the fifth, to tverj body’s disgust,
William quitted, and the bruised and astounded
Gorman was declared the winner. Slavin gave as
reason that his left hand was knocked up.
* * •
| [Costello’s acceptance of the offer of £25
to nothing that Peter Jackson could not knock
him out in four rounds shows the Yankee’s grit.
Were we in Costello’s place we would as soon
take £25 to tight four rounds with a circular-saw
or a tram-motor. However, there is no account-
ing for taste.
• • * >
Poor Alec Robertson, who was done bo
death by tbe unlucky Silvermine, is now credited
with more “remarks" just before he fell than he
would have had time to relieve himself of in a
journey from here to Melbourne. After a man Is
gone it is always remembered that be made a lot
of historic utterances in his last moments, and
died giving his opinion on everyth’ng under the
sun.
• * •
Away In a beck-blocks township of
N.S.W. the local storekeeper is an Orangeman of
the most sggravatingly yellow description. He is
also a sporting man, and owns a horss of great
suddenness and velooity. In tbe same town hatga
out a wandering son of Brin who pos esses a mare
which, be has always believed, can beat any
crater on f <mr legs. For months the storekeeper
nagged a h*m with a view to getting on a match
for £5O, aai at last be fairly bounced the Hiber-
nian in'o declaring that he would race any dirthy
Prrdestant on earth for everything he had, down
to his shirt. Pat jaw ed every mcvab'e he owned
on earth to raise the £lO deposit, and then he
went round, and laid the case before
h's clan, and every broth of a bhoy—
every Hooligan and Flaherty in the towmhlp—
planked down his subscription. Among them
they made up the money all but £5, and his re-
verence the praste supplied that for the glory cf
the saints. When the race came off 50 strong-
lunged Irishmen whooped behind the bay mare,
and that terrified animal ran as she had never
run before, and bBat the Protestant hor<e by the
length of a street, and there war a howling
Limerick spree out of the winnings Even his
reve- enoe the praste looked in at the banquet, and
the toast of the evening was “ God help the Irish,
for be jabers the Prodeetants can look after them-
selves."
The outside public were considerably in-
terested in Thorp’’s first appearance on the Mel-
bourne ground. Thouvh the Parramatta dark
colt took none cf the Erglist men’s wickets the
general opinion was that be performed well with
the ball, and tbat Garrett Didn’t give him enough
show. Rough remarks too, were made when he
was sent in “last man ’ for the second Innings,
just in time to see his very indifferent partrer
get caught out.
* * #
Soil another poor unprotected male bas
been arrested over a railway carriage affair.
That anything but gay Lothario, Hairy Hutchens,
the sprlntor, was charged by a solitary female
with having attempted to drug her. It appears
that Harry coughed violently cut of the window
for soma time, and then oslentatiously drew out a
large, clean pocket-handkerchief with which to
mop h's renpl'ing countmanoe, and the virgin,
whi waa aline wi-h him, imagined that sbo smelt
chloroform, and that she waa going to bo
smoih'red wiTh Ham's freshly mangled rag. She
sot earned and gave him in charge, but the caie
was dismissed.
Pants the hert for cooling streams,
'Tis, too, for streams the bushman pants,
But the Kljsium of his dreams
Is one square yard of shade sans ants.


MtLBAN BEOS* BIGG * CO.,
IRONMONGERS.
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
ill GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY
o J
C
<m
:
6
ironmongers
512
X
o
<*/
<*
o
4
&
RE&°
b
SPECIALITIES I
Dafli* Slewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albe Carbon Light
electro plated ware, cutlery, tools,
COCKING STOVES I—LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS fc WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fcd., fcO,
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN IVKKY HOUSE
EFFECTUALLY destroys,
. _ insect^
FUAS fI.ES p t.ETLES.MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES ,V r :RA i * AND IS
AT THE SAMt TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDS DOGE
OR OTHER
ANIMALS
9
P
w
*> <s a v iNT,r^
«»*
W c/ .<y A .cVItA* ICHEMIST;
A V^AUCHf MISTs
sjy^9?MO STORtr.CtPCfv'
f ELTON'G Rl M W A 0 E. U C 0
-MELBOURNE
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware oi
the numerous imitations.
A LOVELY SKIN,
fi^Wcr
- - and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and
summer or the cold i
A oooling, sooth!nr, healin
ixpoeed to the heat and dur
akin of the most delicate lady or chikb gg . of half the u*ual
''"ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, and
is also sold m a golden colour for fair-haired people. I
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, nrejent* 'decay. *®d
nleasing ”gra?™to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ article*, of », Hatton
fcden! London,“nd avoid cheap, worthless imitation*.
Wholesale and Retail Agents-Bixiott B*o*„ and K. Pbobbbb & Co., Sydney,
SXOO
SJ.OO
T. WILLIAMS k 00..
IMPORTIBS OF
BmiTjsa k Fobii&n Boots k Shom ;
Alia HknufMloreri ot
Xhb Viiibsx QuAtirr o* Goods m ihb abovb Libw.
278 and 412 George-st., Sydney.
HOES
HOES
©¥o
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY.
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, Ac., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
GENUINE SODA WATER,
,t> T-OCHI
Sjfiis liatii Watir Cl,
II OH U BOH HILL, SYDNBY,
Perfect Parity Guaranteed.
rmpg PRB3QBIPTIONB are to
■ nCEi be found In the "LIGHT AND
Lira," for the speedy cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &Q, A copy of this
book Will be sent free, sealed, for six penny
■tamps. Address—
0, WARD fc 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
T 8 Hunter-street, Sydney^
MARSHALL'S
T&NIC NERVINE?
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE."
Marshall s tonic nerviks. 7x
Promotea Agpetlte.
lmproves Digestion. , ''‘x '
Cures Nervous Debility!
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Prioe 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Storey, N.S.W, i London, Knbdano,
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
Sydney Branches:
84 PITT-STREET, and 588 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital m ... £1,000,000
Reserve fund ... m _ 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal dtles
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Draftß issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates whloh can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
OLa
&
mrsm
P ILLS
a
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
And nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain
ia the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,
fulness and swelling
after meads, dii-sinesa
and drowsiness;, cold
ehills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, costivs-
ness,scurvy, blotches on
the skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c, The first
dose will give relief in
ppiH'if iwJbaeites. This is no fiction, for they have
4mm it im thousands of cases, Every sufferer ia
swrassfer invited to try one box of th®®B Pills, and
wifi be acknowledged to be
"WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
ffsr females of all ages these Pills ar® to valuable,
as m few doses of them carry off all gross humours,
®gw all obstructions, and bring about all that ia
swjaiEed. No female should be without them. There
ia a® medicine to be found to equal BKBCEIAhf’S
BBSuLS for removing any obstruction er irregularity
*i the system. If taken accosding to the .directions
fk'vm. with each box they will soon raster® femsu.es of
aU e®SB to sound and robust health,
F®r a weak stomach, impaired digeattou and all
iiaosiders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC," 8 and a
few doses will be found to work wonders asm thv
most important organs of the human michins. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore th®
loss#Tost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with 4h® BvOSBBUD
of health the whole physical energy off the human
frame, These are “ PACTS ” admitted by thousand®
•Batavsing all classes of society; ted ea» of the
best guarantees to the nervous and deKSated is,
Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of stay paten!
medicine in the world.
BEECH AM’S MAGIC COUGH HLLB.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, As&ss*» Biffl.
Btslsy ia Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
•and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, fc, ; tEfea*
pills stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
wy of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to tht
§abli® for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
lo»M®nee3, and Oppression of the Caeri, They
speedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
ok breathing which nightly deprive thffpffltfeat of rest.
They give almost instant relief and. comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaints gw® BassiEASt’ff
Oevsa; Fills a trial.
The most violent Cough will hr a shva* Mins b»
removed,
Olt/icv,-—The public are requested be notice that
She words Beeoham’s Pills, St, Helens, M are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of th® Pills,
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
fe« proprietor, T, Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens,
ln«no»»hire, England, in boxes at Is. J.sdl. and 2s. 9d,
each.— Sold by all Druggists and Patoat Medicine
©ealsra throughout the Colonies. »
N.B.—Full directions are given with wz&l box.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queensland,
THE above ia one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS; 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson’s celebrated
EATT DE COLO&NE.
Is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON’S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others lor cleansing and softening the skin.
It Is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
, very lasting in use
Of all Sealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Ot-D Bond Street, London
. Trade Mark—" White Rose' ’on “ Golden .
k Ljre -'' A
WE CAN RECOMMEND
33- 33TT Q-EisriErs
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the most oentral and well appointed of any in
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Noth the Address-
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
t/i"ABONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK
j/J_ HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayalde Gleanings i—The “ Western Cham-
ll»n" says» “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
* awmio «c my western Mends,’
FITZHOY HOTEL
EAST STREET, ROCKAMFTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
plunge and Shower Bath,
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS, WILLIAMSON, Preprints,
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, eOUIBURN,K.S,W.
ITIIRST CiLASS accommodation for commercial
J gontle*nen and others. Private sitting rooms,
a nple room JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor,
Guinness’ Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALXTYa
Elf;
W
m
-'•‘v
jy/iX c'v^
m
‘‘iJißilJjjßlftffn
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLB PURVEYORS tes tt*
AMD «©EAN BXEffl3BS3@H#
LONDON,
By Special AppolntmeaWl
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BALGHIN, JOHNSTON fe CO.,
Oimhcrlil Chambers, Bosd>iln«(e Sydney,
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palaoe. A recy
large Billiard Room,
Prices as follows t— 6s. per diem, All meals Is. Bd,
s
F
ASTHMA,BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
AND ALL CHEST A ERECTIONS
-% PRE.PAR.E.D ONLY BY
lngham
OCKHAM J PXOj
SKS-J/Irtv/i;
r
I
R
A
s
FOOO
roR INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced Into the
Colonies.
Every Stored eeper should get a supply
a.s every wise mother will certainly,'
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD
LONDON. ENGLAND^
MANUFACTURING HATTERS'
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AUTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
Aafl bS QUESN SUREST, BKSSBAMF,
OH!RXSTXB :, S
QUEENSLAND EMPIDVIENT AGENCY.
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Sollcitx>rs and others supplied with reliable In*
formation.
79 Elizabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
Tho curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
A Blessing in every Family
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
Id all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
action iB at once recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for ! heir use in every disease.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London.
£jr Purchasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Pots. If the address is not 533 Oxford-street London, they
are spurious.


ROYAUTCBMiV
POWDER
Absolutely Pure®
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food r**— ’
the Royal Baking Powder may be e&~ • - . f-
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienlstß of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins . Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co.,
N.S.W.
P. Eft. ILsJSkSSiS^JraW',,
WHLOE3ALE AND RETAIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRIT 3 CONTAINS
3 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bot&es Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe's Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Rum
1 Bottle -Id Tom
\ TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3.
~~ x Christmas and Holiday Supplies exeouted on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPP3 STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George-street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIITsINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
XTHTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYAEB SQUARE,
iMB
60 CLASENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED OATALOaUBS WITH PRIOR LIST, FRBB OH APPLICATION,
WAIL AOH BROTHERS.
FENI, fIDI VlOh
iwi*!
For Artistic Posing and Effective Lighting,
combining softness and brllllanoy, the
Photographs of
SMILEMT & IS,
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALONB,
GO THOU AND BO LIKEWISE 1
SUMMER, with its heat, dnst and depressing
effects, is on us, and one of the greatestluxurlsi
we may enjoyfis a delightfully cool and refreshing
bath, made more luxurious by the addition of a
little “Sea Foam Shampoo." Follow the direction!
and you will find it a most beneficial and health*
giving adjunct to the toilet. It will cleanse tha
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave them delightfully
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, See., of the
head, and has the endorsement of the highest
medical authorities. The words “Sea Foam
Shampoo” are registered, and any counterfeit 01
imitation of same will be prosecuted to the full
extent of the law. Sold by all chemist! aad
dealers in toilet artides at the low price Of OM
shilling per packet. Please try one paokagif Xll
will never regret it
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
The above is the only Licensed Haute la
Rockhampton for holding Theatrlaal
other Entertainments, and can be engage! fflG
any term upon application to
CHARLES NASH,
LOMSOi
The Wonder o! tiie Ago.
COLEMAN and Sons, Cootamundra, were
awarded First Prize at the Adelaide Exhlbl*
tlon for their PURE VOLATILE EUCALYPTI
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma and all
affections of the chest. We have more bona-fidl
testimonials than any mediolne before the publlo.
This is a genuine article. Posted to any address
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. fld,
Agents, Hoffnung & Co.; Elliott Bros, Drag Co.
CIII,iiP sin<a. 1 EOOHS.
PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. ADDRESS CARDS PRINTED OR ENGRAVED, ALSO BALL PROGRAMMES, MEMORIAM CARDS, &c.
MUSIC AND BOOKS BOUlfr) CHEAPLY AND STRONGLY.
43-SEND FOR CIRCULARS OF TYFOGRAPH AND BERRYGRAPH COPYING PROCESSES.
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, and Part Music. New Catalogue, Free on Application.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 343 GEORGE STREET.
ALLAA A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS Of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pis and Sheet Lead, Spelter, fto,
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppcrsml thing, Blaoksmltblng, Plumbing,
gaslitting, Tank and Girtf or Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description,
BOULTON'S “PLUS'.I," “VALVE," and “PAN" CLOSETS, “VACUUM" WATER*
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fco.
gale Agents fee? Teriijr Km , Patent Afir Propellers, Van Cowls, Can Vitos* Boaters,
s, Ae,
BON ACCORD WORKS,~B’AND’9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
mn-mm
fTTJJ], Pc-.ft • A! ' r~: -«1 - t * V?T'W"» , WOP,
ALFRED LAWRENCE and CO.
130 COLUNS-STRKKT, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT-STREET,
Sydney.
BREWERS and M 'ated Wa'er Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Brewing and Cordial
making. Dr. Grief endorffs Bohemian Hop Extract, Dr. Griefendorff s Bohemian Hop Bitters.
Dr. Griefendorff s Dandelion Blbters. Dr. Griefendorffs Quinine Wine Utica and Munohen Hop
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeaeb Presses and other serbs Llgnozobe for lining vats
and casks. Beakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saoeharometors, Microscopes.
Ammonia and Eoher loe Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Hop Bitters.
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Ca f alogue, post free oa application.
Publiehing Office of
“THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS' JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND SPIRIT
TRADE REVIEW.’'
Also
“THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE, h
BEACON SFIELD HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne.
”■
mMm
*****
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
Am
AfcPS&Ri
In consequence of Imitations ®tf THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE* which &n calculated M decdm the Public, Lea and Pernm
have to request that Purchasers m that ilk LEkl m cmry he-ith
hears their Sigmtwm tkm-- -
without which m htik &f tM original WOMC-ESTEMSMIIMM
SA UCE f is genuim .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS’ Sauce, and see Name mu Wmpp&r, Label, Jseoe
Stopper, € Wholesale and fm/ Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse esed
■Blackwell) London, &"c„ fre,; and by Gr&ssrs and Oilmen thrmghmet the WerM,
Wholesale Agents : Montkfiokk Joseph Sc Co , : David Cohen &Co , Sydney.
ToyloHßro s
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
8E STOW Dll Ci PACKETS THBOUfiHOUTffe
NOTICE.
'TTTILL Mrs. K. BRUNTON, late news agent,
Tt Newcastle, oblige by c»Uing on the ac-
countant at The Bulletin office, if in Sydney,
10 JOBBING PRINTERS, fcO.
T
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper, Apply,
“Bulletin” Newspaper Co», Pitt-street,
T. F. V, J534; GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATCHES, Jewellery, Instruments for Christmas presents. Watches for lading, gentlemen, and boys, at all prices. Jewellery, thB latest styles and designs In gold and silver
at very low prices indeed (quality being in all cases guaranteed). Opera and Field Glasses, Drawing-room Clocks, Thermometers and Barometer*. For professional gentle-
men, Microscopes, Mathematical Instruments in presentation cases, Telescopes, &c. For Boys studiously inclined, similar instruments at moderate prices (always in' stock), make a
capital present, and lead toeir tastes tutu,g od, and keep them out of Buy from the Manufacturer and direct Importer, and save middlemen’s profit. The old-
established name is sufficient guarantee for quality and good value. Please remember WIESENER’S Steam Factory and Shop— . ‘. j
334= /QhHSOISGKE] BTIEiEIEIT, S"X IDdSTErX - .. ?
