

The finest Estate yet offered to the Public.
rnong
Park,
F
°ur and a-half Miles from the Melbourne General Post Office.
ONE MILE FROM ASCOT YALE STATION.
This superb Estate will be offered in allotments each Week until disposed of.
WATER FRONTAGES,
VILLA SITES, MANSION SITES,
been the theme of constant admiration, and when you remember that C. B. Fisheb,
fk well known in racing and squatting circles, spent £40,000 in improving the land,
you will all rush for Plans and Passes to
Shevill & Co., Auctioneers,
In conjunction with E. SHATTOCK and J. J. ItENDLE.
L, SURVEYORS: SOLICITORS:
**rs. Terry & Oakden and J. 8. Jenkins. Messrs. Madden & Butler.
The Bulletin
**k yonr
Grocer for
Fry’s Malted Cocoa.
3. 8. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup oontains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter." — Lancet.


DMAJtSRO&
toiAta
.
AM
(77
m
- :i
DIXSONtfSONS
S 3
o.
V
(SIR ROGER
3i
E
XOELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS
TOWERS.
deoond Brick Hotel Building erected in above
icvn, situated oorner of Gill and Church Streetß.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured
—not merely relieved—and we can prove what we
say. There are no failures and no disappoint-
ments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also
cures all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPA-
TION and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION,
relieve distress from too hearty eating, correct
DISORDERS of the STOMACH, Stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 84.
C. E. MOULTON ... Sole Proprietor.
PILLS.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
»ur passes all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mepals—
PAIUS, IB7B, OALCl;TlA,188l,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
RAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the niowth and
Improving the appearance of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly ham less
kerchief,
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers
). & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, Londor
Trade Mark—/‘White Rose” on “ Golden
Lyre.’
M‘LEAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
lEONMON GEES,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IRONMONGERS
2
5
X
p
r
o
%
BEG?
Or
<b
i
Davis' Sewing Machine, tebestos Fire proof Paint, Mho Darbon Light, \
EKECTRO-PIiATEI) WAKE, CUTLERY, TOOES,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS BEETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S.
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c., &c.
Wanted in every house.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
effectually destrc
INSECTS
FLEAS FLIES BEETLES MOSQUITOES
COCKROACHES.AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HA RM LESS TaBIRpS DOGS
FOWLS
animals
dr
.vVK ,
y ,O A ,
X o %^^*W
sr
FE
MELBOURNE
WA.MT) TK wraftt TiOmTa.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
the numerous imitations.
of
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Received
Advances Made
Total Income
Year rndicg
Oct., 1885.
£180,425
61,630
93.581
123,248
200,106 -
Year ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,08 a
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685'
391,356 .
307,828
797,990
Y<ar ending
Oc\, 1888.
£580,000
251,015
1,123,040
025,820
2,048,951
E : E
Deposits received at following Rates 12 months, 7 per cent. ; 6 months, t> per
cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to port by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to secure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AKPLE PUKES -for Borrowers. JERKS LIBERAL
nut mis
if
Wlliil!
M
jP jffl |lfttK U 5Sj
■MS*
PREMIE”
BUILDING ASSOCIATION-
-54 COLLINS
£2S Contributing Shaf® 5 ,
, J 1* p
/"lAN EE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Pay® ellC
sKare Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Sh
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Comp° uD
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their
hold erS
[htd ea
The holders of I e First Issue of these Shares received 11 oJ ,iy
1885, £26 Is. h l ., towards which sum they had Gp l^'1
£l4 65., at the rat .? of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years
Hon. JOHN MH .O, M.P., J.P.,
WILLIAM DOHERTY
ir»"
,gecr e
Acting
55S
;v- -
m
THE , Yjl
Federal Coffee Pala<>
; : RNER OP
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete a i;h every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of magnificently
SPECIAL LINING SALOON for LALIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine
Appointments Unequalled in the City. * Q
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FL(F n ’
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chef, assisted by a civil and obliging stair. .d
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION R°°
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY
George Cohen -
bbm j ® d t — a
■Manes 0 .


The Bulletin
Vo! 9 —Ho. 461.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1888.
Price, 6d.
Premier Gillies.


notice.
By sending direct to Thk Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
mn have Ti e Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
®ity Thk Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
g<o interfere.
THE
CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
NOTICE TO OUR AGENTS.
We shall be glad to at once receive orders
for the Christmas Number of “ THE
BULLETIN,” which will consist of a much
larger edition than that published by any
other weekly paper in Australasia, replete with
attractive matter and including a supplement
in Jive colours by Phil May. This supple-
ment, which is entitled “ JUMPS AND
JIM-JAMS, A TEMPERANCE SER-
MON,” will be one of the most humorous and
original drawings ever issued in this country,
and will certainly attain an enormous and
permanent popularity. The stories and verse
published in the number will be of exceptional
interest.
fgg* To ensure full supply, early appli-
cation is absolutely necessary.
NOTICE TO ADVERTISERS.
To prevent disappointment, intending ad-
vertisers should siow secure positions, as the
limited space available in this Special
Number is rapidly Jilling up.
The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper.
'■ Australia for the Australians. 1
I?®OPBKETORB ! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER C©. (
liIMITBBc
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AS M Pitt-btrkkt, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only),
iPer Annum .* ••• ®
Half-yearly . ... •» 0n 6
Quarterly ••• 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. V.
Aechibalb.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
& Correspondence " column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
fine, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
timlian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
bength, or say 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin " will return all unavailable MSS. when
(the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
<sf such MSS.
'xHelfon.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1888.
The Imprisoned Journalists.
]jT Is the imperative duty of every honest
and courageous journalist in New South
Wales, and even in Australasia, to direct
attention to the case of O’Neill, Weeks and
Hilder, the newspaper men now lying in
the debtors’ prisons of New South Wales,
and not only to try to devise a means
whereby these powerlesß victims may be ex-
tricated from the grasp of a vicious law, but
to consider how also the law itself may be
shorn of Its purposeless malignity. We out-
lined the case of these defendants in
last week’s issue of The Bulletin. They
were found guilty of having offended against
Law of Libel. They were despoiled of
all their worldly goods with the view of
satisfying the claims for damages and costs
adjudged against them. The forced sale of
their effects realised a sum than that
required, and because of this the men
were torn from their employment and fami-
lies and cast into prison, where, unless
something more rational than existing law
is put in motion, they will have to spend
many months in a torture that will in no
respect profit their creditors, in no respect
sanctify law in the eyes of the public, bu
will, for a certainty, afflict, if not desolat
their homes, and embitter, ulcerate, an ■>
gangrene their own future lives.
* *
It is true that no State enterprise is at a stand-
still through the imprisonment of Messrs,
O’Neill, Weeks and Hilder. Their fate
does not affect the price of tallow or influence
the question of farthing-bids at woolsales.
The Sydney land-boom will, if gamblers with
no money and banks with much can only
affiliate, spin merrily on whether O’Neill
Weelv,s and Hilder are in gaol or out of it.
Even the alluring project of pumping natural
gas from the bowels of Narrabeen is indepen-
dent of their whereabouts. Hence the wealthy
metropolitan daily press is likely to be
lethargic on the subject. If the release of
O’Neill, Weeks and Hilder would create a
spurt on the tin-market, the pig-market, or
any other market, zincographic appliances
would be brought to bear and the likenesses of
the victims would adorn the editorial columns
of the “great” dailies. The denunciation
of the Draconian enactment which operates
so senselessly would be stern, and the cham-
pionship of the modern idea of personal
liberty would be eloquent. But as it is only
a couple of rustic editors and those dependent
upon them whose souls the law is gnawing,
the papers will, in all probability, stay deaf
and dumb and blind. At all events, they
are likely to do so until the country shows
that without their assistance it is prepared
to scourge wrong and vindicate right.
* « •
The powers under the New South Wales
libel law should be curtailed, or those under
the insolvency law extended. When a man
publishes a libel, whether in consequence of
neglect or malice, he falls fairly within the
jurisdiction of panitive law. But in punish-
ing him the same spirit of abstract justice
which operates when other misdeeds are in
question should come into play. Under the
libel law a man may, through a mere acci-
dent, be both sold out and sent to gaol. A
few weeks ago the Messrs. Bennett, of
Sydney Evening News, were cast in
damages and costs for a mistake made in
their composing-room. The mistake was
one which involved no moral culpa-
bility whatever. The Bennetts were
able to pay the money the Court
awarded, and so the matter, as far as they
were concerned, ended. But if the Messrs.
Bennett had been worth only a couple of
hundred pounds they would in the first
place have lost their money, their property,
and their business; and would, in the
second place, have been confined in gaol for a
year. The proprietors of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, in their late encounter with Mr.
Dibbs, were nominally exposed to similar
penalties. They also, however, were wealthy
enough to pay the money demanded —some
four or five thousand pounds—and they are
therefore at large to-day and their business
is undisturbed. At first glance it would
seem that the proprietors of large city papers
should stand in the front when a revision of
the libel law is called for. Further
examination, however, shows that they
are not so helplessly at the mercy of
the law as are the proprietors of small
country papers. J uries do not study
the relative positions of a country weekly
paper and a city daily. The amount of
damages they will give a plaintiff for a libel
appearing in a country paper approaches far
more nearly to the total value of the property
than does the amount which, in similar cir-
cumstances, they award for a libel in a city
daily. Indeed, their verdict often kills the
country paper while it rarely scotches the
city one. Whether the New South Wales
libel law be altered or remain as it is this
is a subject which jurors, when called upon
for a verdict, should consider. Had the
jury brought against the Bennetts a verdict
for an amount bearing the same proportion
to the proprietary value of the Eyening
News which the verdicts brought against
country papers often bear to their pro-
prietary value, the viciousness of the libel
law might be illustrated to-day by the pre-
sence in the debtors’ prison of city as well
as of country newspaper-proprietors.
* * *
But, though both city and country
journalists were in prison, the law would
not be more evil than it is. It is possible
that the city Press would denounce it more
energetically, but denunciation would rot
make it worse. The root of its badness lies
in holding a man liable to be sent to gaol
for not paying money which he has not got.
That is the crime of the libel law. That
crime is maintained through subsequent
measures passed foy the relief of persons
unable to pay their debts, The Defamation
Act, passed in 1847, after recounting penal-
ties, devotes a section to securing the per-
manence of their existence on the Statute
Book. The section reads :
And be it enacted that from and after the passing of
this Act no law which is now or may hereafter be in force
in the colony for the relief of insolvent debtors, or for the
abolition of imprisonment for debt, shall extend or be
considered to extend to affect or discharge from his
liability any person who shall be indebted for any penalty,
damages or costs, adjudged against him in any proceed-
ing, either civil or criminal, for the printing or publish-
ing of any blasphemous, seditious, or defamatory words
or libel.
In 1874, however, an Act amending the
law relating to debtors dealt anew with the
subject, and as there exists some doubt about
the manner of its operation we quote the
section under which journalists, unable to
meet the damages or costs of a libel action,
must now act: —
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions any person
who shall at any time at or after the passing of this Act,
have bBen or be for the period of twelve calendar months
in the custody of the sheriff in execution of any judgment
obtained under the Defamation Act, shall be entitled to
his discharge from such custody, arid shall be forthwith
discharged therefrom, after sequestration of his estate
(made at any time whilst he shall have been or be in
custody) on the order of the Chief Commissioner of Insol-
vent Estates directed to such sheriff.
More than a quarter of a century passed
between the Defamation Act and this Act
professing to afford relief, and still the
inability to discharge a debt, contracted, it
might be, through a trivial negligence or an
oversight, or contracted, as it often was, in
the highest interest of the community, was
made the cause of imprisoning the debtor
when that debtor was a journalist.
* * *
That is the stage at which New South
Wales stands to-day. That stage disgraces
the intelligence of the community and is a
bitter injustice to those who fall victims to
the law. What is gained by denying to >
journalist the immediate relief of the Insol-
vency Act ? If the libel he publishes possess
atrocious features for which the deprivation
of his property is not adequate punishment,
then try him criminally for the atrocity
before a judge and jury and send him to
to gaol on account of that atrocity. A
shopkeeper who fails to meet his engage-
ments is allowed to avail himself at once
of the Insolvency Act, but if there be evi-
dence to show that his failure did not coma
about in the ordinary course of business he
may be refused his certificate of discharge or
be indicted for fraudulent insolvency. If the
latter, he is tried fairly before a judge and
jury on this charge of fraud, and unless
found guilty he is not sent to gaol. In the
case of the journalist, however, there is no
hearing to discover whether he is a criminal or
not. Whether a criminal or not, to gaol he
must go unless he can raise sufficient money
to pay the claims against him. This we call
monstrous. It is especially monstrous in the
light of the fact that it is only the struggling
journalist who suffers by the legal crime.
The wealthy journalisb or literary syndicate-
man stands outside the shadow of the
debtors’ prison. He works with.the know;
ledge that an error of judgment or mechani-
cal blunder or even a deliberate and venge-
ful attack upon the character of an inno-
cent man will cost him only a fraction
of the value of his big property. The
struggling journalist knows that such an
error or such a blunder will cost him all he
is worth in worldly goods, will throw his
wife and children unprotected on the world,
and will land himself within prison walls
where health and energy and brain may all
be wrecked. And he knows that mistakes
will happen. Is there a man in the country
who will look straight at the question and
say that this part of the law should stand
one session more as it is ? Is there one who
will not say that even before it is erased
from the Statute Book its pernicious effect
should be counteracted by legislative agency ?
Why must O’Neill, Weeks and Hilder lie
where they are until an unjust and senseless
law has exacted its pound of flesh 1 We
do not care specially for these men. If they
have been guilty of crimes, let them be tried
and imprisoned. But the only reason why
they are now imprisoned is that they have
not money to clear off an account standing
against their names. Yerily it is a crime to
be poor.
Politics and Pauperism.
It is stated that when a deputation waited upon
Mr. Abbott, M.P., and asked him to assume the
leadership of the New South Wales Opposition,
he said, “ No thanks ! I don’t intend to be a
pauper in my old age, like Sir Jabejj Blather
and Sir Howley Sktte. I mean to attend to my
business and provide for my family, and let
politics take the second place.” The lengthy
politician might have been advantageously re-
minded that both the eminent personages whose
names he mentioned had done very well in a
pecuniary sense since they devoted their energies
to public affairs. It is, however, just possible that
he was thinking of the maxim of honest lago,
which proclaims that “he who filches from me my
good name . . . makes me poor indeed,” since
it really does seem that few Australian politicians
of any special standing can contrive to escape the
voice of the denouncer. Indeed, there appears to
be a positive epidemic of accusation raging all
over the Continent just now. In Queensland the
most prominent Ministerial leaders have been
served with writs in law-suits which charge them,
in so many words, with having used their powers
as directors of financial companies for their own
benefit. In Victoria the names of various public
men are disagreeably associated with certain uncom-
fortable disclosures which have been made in con-
nection with the bursting of the land boom ; and in
JSfew South Wales scarcely a day passes without
Ministers being broadly charged with malversa-
tion of public trust. One Victorian politician is
said to be i,n difficulties to the tune of three-
quarters of a million. A leader of Queensland
politics is accused of having financed with sixty-
three thousand pounds of the money of a com-
pany in favour of a nominee of his own, and a
Minister of the Crown in ,New South Wales is
openly named as the participator in various jobs
by which the country has been heavily defrauded
• * •
]jt is not possible at present to say _ how many
of these accusations are true, nor is it at all
desirable to discuss them in advance of the legal
proceedings which will presently either substan-
tiate or refute them. But it would be unwise to
refuse to recognise their extraordinary force and
the significance of their occurrence at the very
moment when three of the Australian colonies
have joined in a protest against the appointment
of professional Governors. For no professional
Governor, however unscrupulous, could do half
the harm which is in the power of a professional
politician who becomes a Cabinet Minister.
The Ministry of New South Wales, for
instance, control an annual expenditure of
nearly nine millions sterling and manage a
public estate of £183,200,000 besides the issue and
redemption of temporary and permanent loans
aggregating upwards of forty millions. A power
like this placed in the hands of eight men renders
their personal honesty a matter of mtijnal impor _
lance, and its successful impeachment becomes a
public calamity. Indeed, if only half the allega-
tions against various Australian politicians are
true, the people of several colonies stand in danger
of being simultaneously robbed, an aggravating
concomitant of the danger being that the portion
of public property which would make each of the
suspected persons powerful and wealthy is so
small in comparison with the remainder that it is
difficult to arouse public attention to the impor-
tance of purity in politics, and to the enormous
danger involved in condoning any robbery at all.
What can a Governor do to enrich himself at the
public expense? Simply nothing, except, indeed,
he can contrive to induce his Government to allow
him a little extra cash for expenses over and above
his salary, a concession which, to do them justice,
Australians Ministers are unapt to make. Com-
pared with such trifling sumfe as a pliable
Governor might obtain, the opportunities of
avaricious Ministers of Lands or Mines or Works
are gigantic and incalculable.
« *
Mr. Munro, the eminent and wealthy and
teetotal member for Geelong, was wont at one
time to solemnly warn the Victorian public to
choose only men who had managed their own
affairs successfully for the conductors of public
business. Mr. Munro’s enemies, however, were
rather fond of asserting that his political career
had been the stepping-stone to his own pecuniary
sucsess and that his advocacy of certain rail-
ways along the projected lines of which he had
acquired property was too pathetic to be disin-
terested. Consequently impecuniosity had, as
before, the best of it, and lots of Victorian politi-
cians were denounced by the late George Paton
Smith as men whom no sane citizen would entrust
with a £5-note. It would be rather a distressing
thing if professional politicians became more
numerous and rapacious at the very moment
when Governors became weaker and more depen-
dent on Ministers. Of the two we may depend
upon it that the professional politician is the
more dangerous animal.
# *
So far as we may judge from Victorian experi-
ence, payment of members is the best cure for
political pauperism. They still have political
paupers in Victoria undoubtedly, but they are
for the most part, survivals of the old system. of
payment by bribes, and of the ugly rush by which
the new system was inaugurated. It has been
found that well-to-do farmers and tradesmen in
fair business come forward as candidates more
freely now they are certain not to lose by it., and
the names of three or four professional politicians
who have been ousted by men of local repute occur
instantly to the memory. Necessarily, the
labourer is worthy of his hire, and it costs much
less to pay him in hard cash than to let him pay
himself from the public estate. Something will
have to be done, that is evident. It will not do
to let the outer world get the impression that the
whole of this Continent is to lie at the mercy
of half-a-dozen cliques of men whom empty
pockets render desperate. It is the hungry cat
who upsets the cream jug, while the butter rests
secure on the shelf beneath which lies the well-fed
mouser. The friends of the pauper politicians de-
clare that their attention to public affairs im-
poverishes them, and their offences are condoned
or at least excused on that account. By all means
let the excuses be removed by an ample and
liberal payment. Then will dishonesty be without
defence and professional politicians without re-
proach since like other professional people they
will have to do their work and maintain their
honesty as a means of keeping their situations.
The “Times” and Co.
It is astounding to discover how large is the class
of Australians who are abashed and disheartened
by the brutality of expression indulged in by the
Times, Saturday Review, and kindred produc-
tions, concerning recent events in our history.
These weak-kneed creatures, upon the first breath
of adverse criticism, turned as white as the liver
of a Tory editor, and now, having carefully and
respectfully studied every expression of Tory
opinion vouchsafed by the cables, they bend low,
and in a bondsman’s key, with bated breath and
whispering humbleness, say—“Kismet!’’ Because
the Times has glorified the putrid Parliament of
Victoria, and MTlwraitii has been branded by
the Saturday Review as a “ Separatist” and one
who associates with “unsavoury ” persons, there-
fore the laßt has been said, and naught remains
but the enjoyment of the good things provided by
English capital—a lotos-eater’s life of dreamy in-
difference to troubles that threaten from afar.
This is about the most highly-distilled compliment
that has ever been offered to these mouth-pieces
of fashionable faction. To those who have been
in the heat and press of the campaign where these
champions are fighting the losing battles of wealth
and privilege the compliment sounds like a new
and most refreshing joke.
» » *
What is the Times ? It is the organ of the
plutocrats of London city ; the pursy, unwieldly,
overfed, selfish, mean and hideous creatures whose
eyes are as dull as their hearts are hard. And
the Saturday Review ? It is the well-groomed
servant of the aristocrats; the overbred and
emasculated progeny of royal by-children and
successful swashbucklers, Both publications
usually make common cause, and together form a
passage through which the firm of Rudes, Dives
and Co. belches the venom of its spleen lest the
same should split it before the common people
have an opportunity of doing so more effectually.
It is funny enough surely to, see canny colonial
newspapers paying for the cabled hog-wash of
such “ organs,” without being obliged to grin at
the further side-splitter presented by the good,
easy people who are frightened into fits by the
fact that Australia is at length being treated as
the English democracy, the native populations of
Ireland and India, and even the Soudanese
“rebels ” have been treated for years back. One
of the things Australia has to learn is that in. the
matter of unscrupulous and unsavoury verbiage
the organs of “i expectable ” England are facile,
princeps. And another thing that Australia has to
learn is that when these organs have got the
vapours there is no, occasion to pay them the
least attention. Life is too short for that.
The N.S. W. Minister for Justice is con-
sidering the desirableness of having what is termed
the “life sentence” defined so as to mean some
fixed period, and has called for a return as to the
number of life-prisoners now in gaol in N.S.W.
who have served 10 years or more. Of such
prisoners there are, it appears, 10, The meaning
of this return is, it is surmised, that another
strong movement is being made in the _ direction
of releasing the long-imprisoned and influential
murderer Bertrand, who has now served 22 years
and 7 months.


T7IOREIGN AND COLONIAL EXCHANGE
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house),
Directors:
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman,
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq,
This Bank undertakes the exchaige of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits:
12 months 7 per cent.
I 6 „
° » 6 ~ ~
T. n. niehtrdiM - - * Marine ftfrecte?,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cliows under Charter.
Last week, at a Sydney police court, one George
On Lee, a boss Chinaman, proceeded against Ah
Fook, Toong Ah Fan, Toong Ah Lum, Toong
Ah York, Ah Kow, Toong Ah Wah,.Hoong
Choon Tug, Foong Yack Sing, Lee Ah Wing,
Foonc, Low Chuie, and Ah Hen for breach of
agreement in absenting themselves from work
without leave and contrary to the terms of em-
ployment. Complainant’s lawyer said that the
men had been , engaged for six years’ service,
worked for 18 months only, and then set com-
plainant at defiance. They worked when they
liked, and now between 20 and 30 of the Celestials
employed by him had taken out summonses for
wages at the rate of 20s. per week. Defendant
said that the agreement had been made in China
bub not ratified here. Complainant, however,
denied this, and the case against An Fook wa
then taken. Complainant deposed that defendan
and 14 others were employed by him to work in
garden at Kogarah. The wages in China amountec
to lOdols. a year (£2), and witness paid GOdols
(£l2) a year and provided food. The men had t
work out the passage money and poll-tax—which
being interpreted, means of course that these un
happy Chows had to boil for about two years at
“ dead horse.” Defendant and the others workec
18 months, and on the 22nd ult. absented them
selves. The passage-money and poll-tax were no
yet paid off, and defendant was more than £l9
debt. Witness sent his nephew (Foong Tack)
China to engage men, and he received the neces
sary instructions regarding the agreements
The men were engaged for six years a
GOdols. a year, and altogether 28 were sent out
The Bulletin sincerely sympathi es with Mr. On
Lee in his little difficulty with his recalcitran
fellow countrymen He was Onlee applying th
foremost principle of the Freetraders to flesh anc
blood, by purchasing his labour in the cheapes
market in the world, and disposing of it in wha i
up to now has, fortunately for Australian work
ing men, been one of the dearest. It is just on
of the incidents that illustrate with telling effec i
the fallacies of Cobdenism and bring home to th
meanest intellect the dire results of the chie:
Freetrade argument carried to its logical con
elusion. The incident is, however, double
barrelled ; from it the Protectionist may also learn
lessons of the deepest importance. While the
free importation of Chinese manufactures (anc
indeed merchandise of every kind made by under
paid alien workmen) is permitted in New South
Wales, it is a distinct advantage that Chinese
should be admitted without let or hindrance. Our
argument is this : A Chinaman working in China
at £2 a year for the colonial market is a greater
menace to the Australian workman than a China
man working in Australia for £l2 per annum
The Chow at home works for far less wages than
he could obtain in Australia, and consequently
produces an arbicle that can be sold cheaper in
Australia, the handicap of distance being in hi
cise a mere bagatelle. Therefore we say, so long a
these goods are admitted free it is preferable (we
now speak from a purely economic standpoint
that inducement should be given to Chinese
workmen to come bo Australia. Then at leas;
we and our revenue would benefit, infini
tesimally perhaps, by the food they eat, the clothes
they wear—for the original nankeen won’t last for
ever—and the tools they use. Both views of the
subject-matter of this paragraph are worth think
ing over by political economists on either side o :
the fiscal line that divides the Freetrader and the
Protectionist.
+
The God of the Water-Main.
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—ln a leader under above
heading, in your issue of September 29, the writer
infers that prayer—apparently for anything—is
futile, because “natural law, evolution, logica
sequence, dominate the operations of the Uni-
verse.” To the Agnostic who declares, as it were,
that there is nothing beyond the seeming meeting-
point of sky and sea, or, if there is, that, being
beyond the boundaries of the visible, his reason
cannot comprehend it, such a conclusion is in
harmony with his principles ; but it is pitiful and
saddening in the extreme to see those who have
once been Christian ministers drawing back their
hands from the plough to such an extent as to dis-
parage prayer—even for rain Allow me, please,
a word or two on this matter, and I will en-
deavour to indicate the one logically un-
assailable stand-point for the Christian : The
foreknowledge of God is unlimited His
power absolute. The prayers we breathe to-
day sounded in the ears of the Eternal before the
world was—before the birth of matter or the
ordaining of a law to govern it. Whatever answer
He may deign to send now was decided upon then,
and the means by which it was to be brought
about—whether by the operation of what we call
“ natural causes ”or otherwise —arranged for. By
some knowledge of mechanical laws, which he did
not frame and cannot alter, a watchmaker can
construct a clock to chime to order, either at the
hours or such other divisions of time as may be
desired. If, then, it was the purpose of God to
answer one or millions of the prayers of His un-
born creatures, shall we deny to Him the power
to so design the machinery of Nature as that it
should accomplish His will? Con ’I mself for-
bid ! “Known unto God are all His works from
the beginning of the world.” “ All things work
together for good to those who love God.” —
Yours, Christian.
The K. C. Whisky-Interest
A very straight piece of talk is the following,
written in a daily paper apropos of the fact that
the whisky-interest was in the fore-front of the
welcome extended by th 9 RC. community of
Sydney to the teetotal Cardinal Moran on his
return from Rome :
Alas ! Alas 1 Amongst no religious community do the
influences of the drink traffic prevail to anything like the
same extent as in the Catholic one.
The publican and his promoters appear to pervade
every movement in connection with the Church —they are
prominent at every turn, conspicuous at every meeting,
whether by seleotion or toleration it is hard to know, but
certain it is there they are.
Is it any wonder that it is the ambition of Catholic
young men and women when married to keep a public-
louse, no matter how low ? They see the publican and
spirit merchant occupying the front seat in the church
and collecting the oflertory during the service.
The young woman sees the jewel-bedecked wife of
ihe publican often rolling in her carriage and surrounded
sy every luxury. Is it any surprise that Irish and Catholic
names are all through Sydney conspicuous at every corner
and prominent in every position ? But how little do these
roung people think that perhaps the night before, the
conspicuous individuals whom they so long to imitate
were engaged in the noble employment of “ extracting,”
t might be said, out of the pockets of drunken husbands,
the bread-money of famishing wives and children. How
ittle they think that perhaps that morning these pro-
ninent oharaoters gave the last touch to the mind of that
maniac which consigned him for ever to that lunatic asylum
vh.eh ti e public mu t maintain ! How little do thty
know that perhaps not an hour before he appears in b
prominent place in church the last dram was served
that erring wife which was instrumental in throwing he
on the cold world for the remainder of her days and hea
ing sorrow upon sorrow on perhaps a noble soul.
And yet these people are not only tolerated, Lu
brought prominently _ forward and thought necessary I
the well-being of society and to the material existence o
the Church.
It may be asked, What are Catholics to do with thes
people ? Simply leave them alone. If they wish to follow
the calling of wholesale or retail spirit vendors then le
them, but give them no public position. Do not honou
them by. association in the performance of noble deed
while they are at the same time the cause of evil ones t
that unmeasurable extent known to God alone.
But it may be said these people largely support ou
priests and build our churches. But it requires no argu
ment to show that neither would be in the most remot
degree affected by what these people give or do. On th
contrary, by the lessening or suppression of their traffi
the Church in its material aspects, and indeed all othe
institutions in the colony, would be benefited a thousanc
times over, for crime would in all its manifold forms d s
appear ; diligence, perseverance and frugality take th
place of the crime, idleness and improvidence which ar
becoming every day more and more the ruin of this fai
land, and by that means we should gain from a religiou
as well as material point of view almost infinitely mor
than is now obtained from the spoils of the wholesale anc
retail publican.
But suppose, for an instant, these people and all thei
influences were arrayed against the Church to-morrow
Would that not be a thousand times better than t hat they
should be as they appear to be now at 1 ast taoitly reoog
nised as leaders in the promotion of the Catholic religion
and, therefore, as examples to be imitated by the rising
generation ?
As a matter of fact the temperance people fai
because they too often mix up snuffling piety witl
that good cause—the suppression of low grog
shops. The publicans, on the other band, succeec
because they mix up religion with whisky and pay
Heaven to let them consort with the Devil.
4,
Past and Present.
The Central Australian (Bourke, N.S.W.) after
remarking that there is a tendency on the part o.
the average Australian to give way to Anglo
phobia, says:—
The power of England is discounted, her influence is
disputed, and her national characteristics are scoffed at
Every dark page in her history is drawn before the eyes
of young Australia, which a depraved and filthy state of
mind leads our youth to prefer the semi-indecent stories
of oourt intrigue, to the essays of Stbble or Addison, or
to the brilliantly depicted histories of Macaulay or Grkbn
The English monarchy is abused, the English aristocraoy
is vilified, and the English people are drawn as slave-
driven paupers. The cause of all this is, as Major Dane
said, ignorance, and this ignorance will exert a most per-
nicious influence on our country, for the politician who
has never studied history may be likened to the
physician who has never studied physiology. The
history of the world, so far as we are concerned, is the
history of England. Australians will turn round and
point to the bloody deeds on Tyburn or on Tower Hill,
and turn against the Englishman of to-day with the
bitterest scorn. It is true that the traitor’s gibbet was
raised on Tyburn as the symbol of authority, and it is
true that every stone in the Tower could bear eloquent
testimony to the agonies and hardships of brave and inno-
cent men. Yes, all this is true, but remember it is of the
past. Whatever has been was necessary to evolve the
present, and it was by the creaking of the traitor’s gates,
by the bloody work of hangman and the block, that the
lamps of civil and religious liberty were lighted—lighted by
the sons of England, and carried by them to the utter-
most corners of the earth.
Although The Bulletin doea not claim to hold a
perpetual retainer on behalf of Australian national
sen iment, itrises without the slightest trepidation
to fit on itself the cap which the Bourke man has
made for it We plead guilty to having abused
the English monarchy ; we plead guilby to having
vilified the English aristocracy ; we plead guilty
to having pourtrayed millions upon millions of the
English race as slave-driven paupers. And we
also allege ample justification for our action in
respect to everything that is alleged in every
count of the indictment. A system is besb at-
tacked through its representatives. The scro-
fulous, greedy, inane house of Guelph is a mag-
nificent target on which to fccus denunciations
of monarchical institutions, and so, in like
manner, do Burke and Debrett contain the
names of sufficient rogues, fools, extortioners, and
grinders of the faces of the poor to enable us to
draw lurid examples of the beauties of a hereditary-
aristocracy ; while the abject station-worship of
the English middle-classes and the hideous poverty
and dark soul-less despair of the lower strata of
society in Londonand of other colossal British cities
enable us to hold up the English social system as a
warning beacon to Australia lest this young
nation may unwittingly fall into a similar state of
i (remediable degradation. The Bourke writer asks
his readers to remember that the dark pages
of English history belong to the past, ard that
“whatever has bem was necessary to evolve the pre-
sent ” —thus inferring that England’s present
is a goal of honorable attainment, a ‘ ! diamond
ridge ” of ecstatic contentment and prosperity.
Ouo on such twaddle ! Nothing in the whole of
England’s turbulent blood-stained past is so hope-
lessly horrible, so disgraceful to her as a nation, as
the present. In Feudal times the hind had stripes
on his back, but the lord, his owner, saw that
his belly was well filled; in and before
Feudal times the slave at least had a
place at his master’s table or the crumbs
that fell therefrom. Gurth, the swineherd,
thrall of Cedric the Saxon, ate when his
masoer ate. But in the horrible England of
to-day millions are born in penury, live lives of
abject wretchedness and hopelessness, and rot and
die of starvation, while the few revel in Capuan
luxury. If the hideous present is the natural out-
come of a dreadful past, what, we ask the Cen-
tral Australian, can be prophesied of the
future ? What is the logical conclusion to draw
of the possibilities of the future from the operation
of the past on the present ? The sentiment of
national safety alone should make the patriotic
Australian hate with a bitter hatred the unworthy
institutions of the mother-land.
♦-
The Generosity of Gillies.
At the instigation of Duncan Gillies, a reckless
gentleman who is reputed to have given away a
penny at one fell swoop, the Victorian Assembly
last week added £lOOO a year to the salary of Mr.
Railway Commissioner Speight. For Mr.
Speight, personally, and for the system under
which he was imported to fulfil special duties,
The Bulletin has always had a good word, nor
do we now insinuate that the level-headed Com-
missioner isn’t worth £4OOO per annum, as official
salaries go. Nevertheless, those Victorians who
take an interest in any public affairs beyond the
Saving of the Queen, have reason to ask why Mr.
Spbight should henceforth receive £4OOO for ser-
vices which he contracted to render for £3OOO. It
was a fair bargain »t the outset, and if nothing
has occurred to make Victoria regret the
deal, that fortunate fact places the colony under
no sort of obligation to Mr. Speight. Wherefore,
then, this spendthrift indifference to pennies, this
uncalled-for lavishness, on the part of Duncan
Gillies, Premier ? What does it mean, and
whither does it tend ? It means a precedent for
enlarging of fixed salaries and tends in the direc-
tion of Government House. If all gees well with
the Coalition conspirators at next election Duncan
will move that Victoria, in consideration of its
elevation to the position of chief Australian colony
[vide Times gush), do increase the gubernatorial
stipend. And when that resolution has been
carried unanimously, L. L. Smith will start “’A
Fine Old English Gentleman,” that beiDg the
melody which is always played by Mr. Pain's
brass band concurrent with a firework display
of Sir Henry Loch’s fine old English outline.
An ulterior motive power (not a bad phrase,
that!) drove Mr. Speight’s grant through the
Assembly last week. Gillies has no liking for
the bluff Yorkshireman who treads on his fat
little toes every now and again, yet he went out o
his way to court adverse criticism—and at a dan
gerous time—by conferring an unnecessary favou
on this uncongenial spirit. We hope Mr. Speight
isn’t grateful to his benefactor, because it is a pit;
to throw away a genuine sentiment upon othe
than a deserving object. Gillies has a big job ii
view, and this little Speight job is only a stepping
stone to assist Duncan in getting there.
A Vote of Censure.
It seems to have escap’d public attention that a
heavy and tolerably direct censure on Judge Win-
deyer was passed the other day, in Sydney
Criminal Court, by that functionary’s colleague,
Mr. Justice Innes Mrs. Louisa Collins was
on trial for the alleged murder of her husband
by poisoning, and Judge Innes intimated, in reply
to an inquiry, that—
It was not his intention to sit beyond r>.3o o’clock that
evening, as he did not think it consistent or correct to
deal with such an important oase at so late an hour in the
evening.
The of the Jury: We would rather the oase
should be dealt with to-night, your Honor.
His Honor: There is not the remotest possibility ol
doing that.
The Foreman : Of oourse we desire to study and con-
sult your Honor's convenience.
His Honor : That is a thing which, in the exercise of
your duty, must be considered very lightly. I Bhould
never care to oommence summing up in such an impor-
tant case as this is to a prisoner at so late an hour as
r> p.m. It would be, perhaps, better to at once adjourn,
and resume at 10 o’clook to-morrow morning.
This oourse was subsequently adopted, and the court
rose; the jury being, as on the previous day, looked up
for the night.
In the hideous Mount Rennie trial, it will be re-
membered, Judge Windeyer allowed counsel to
address a weary jury at the ghastly hour of two
o’clock in the morning, on behalf of eleven persons
on trial for their lives, four of whom were subse-
quently hanged. It is a heavy indicbment
against New South Wales that Judge Windeyer
has not yet been brought to account,
♦
Mayoral Elections.
Mr, Daniel O’Connor's Bill, giving to the
citizens instead of to the aldermen the right to
elect the Mayor of Sydney rests on a principle
that is at the bottom of all modern progress. It
is, only a small matter as represented by Mr.
O’Connor, bub it merits welcome from those who
believe that it is only by their own direct
action the people can make sure of having
their will obeyed. All honour, all power, and
whatever majesty there is come from the people,
and the people should, wherever it is possible,
confer these attributes with their own hands.
Middlemen should, wherever possible, be ex-
cluded. There are walks in which middlemen
must be employed, but where a workable scheme
of doing without them is shown the people should
stand on their own feet and transact the business
after their own ideas. In France, after the
Revolution, the people assumed this natural right,
but they allowed so many bodies to intervene
between their will and its effect that it was in
most cases modified beyond all recognition. That
is true in a multiplicity of matters there and every-
where still, and simply because, instead of acting
in their own persons, the multitude have got into
a habit of letting some caucus or some board act
for them. It may not be of much consequence to
the world or to Australia who sits in the mayoral
chair of Sydney, but it is of consequence that the
principle on which this Bill rests should be recog-
nised and approved. Mr. O’Connor did not to
any extent argue for support for his Bill on this
ground, but on the ground that cliqueism was
viciously developed in the Municipal Council, and
that harmony would be restored to that body by
taking from them a power that set them by the
ears. This is an effective ground, no doubt, but
is only an accident of the situation, whereas on
the ground of principle Mr. O’Connor could have
extended his Bill to cover every muaicipality in
the colony. The principle is as true, as sound, and
as heartily to be approved of where cliqueism and
selfishness do not exist as where they are in their
rankest state present.
♦
In the Debtors’ Prison.
Dear Bulletin,— l take this opportunity of tendering
my sincere thanks for your kindness in drawing public
attention to my case and the existing Nev South Wales
Libel Law in last week's issue of The Bulletin A friend
has promised me that he will send joua statement giviDg
a history of my oase which may be of service should you
deem it necessary to draw further attention to the matter.
I believe that some years ago the late Hon. J. B.
Darvall introduced a measure to abolish imprisonment
for debt, and made it to apply to journalists mulct in
damages for libel. Mr. Robert Nichols, however, opposed
the Bill on ithe ground that New South Wales, having
been a convict colony, newspapers might in the absenoe
of the severest penalties refer invidiously to the descen-
dants of convicts. Onlv last week I laid my case before
Mr. T. M. Slattery, M.L.A., and he said it was impossible
to repeal the present Act as public men—were imprison-
ment for libel debt abolished—would not be safe from
newspaper attacks —Yours very truly, Geo. D. Hilder.
Darlingtmrst Gaol, Dec 9th, 1888
P.S —lf you could spare an hour up here, I think
you would get some startling information re imprison-
ment for debt. At the present time there is one man
here who has been incarcerated two years and four months
for £lB 65., and another 13jmontbs for six guineas. The
person last referred to filed his schedule 12 months ago,
and his meeting, a single one, was held in February last.—
G D H.
With the merits of the case that led to Mr.
Hilder 's incarceration, The Bulletin, which is
now attacking a system and not upholding any
individual, does not propose to deal. We there-
fore refrain from publishing in full the statement
referred to in the foregoing letter. The following
extract regarding the treatment of Hilder and
his partner, Weeks, will, however, not be out of
place as illustrative of what may happen to a man
in New South Wales :
On 9th May defendants were, in default of paying ver-
vict and costs, arrested and conveyed to Port Macquarie
Gaol, where they were detained five months, when Hilder
was removed to Darlinghurst Gaol for medical treat-
ment. The medical report sent from Pert Macquarie
stated that the defendant (who is obviously extremely ill)
was suffering from hallucinations and that ha was of un-
sound mind and likely to get worse. On arrival at
Darlinghurst, Hilder was sent to the observation ward,
where he was detained seventeen days. During this
period be was forced to mix with convicted pri-
soners, comprising vagrants and Chinamen. At the
end of the time mentioned Hilder was brought before
Drs. Masking and O’Connor for fxamination, and then
TW M d t 0 tl ? e debtor8 ’ prison. Weeks is still confined at
romm; uo Cq V and u to a certain extent is more to be
f <t te ™ than his . com P an ion in distress. His in-
terest m the Ma cleay Argus was sold to Hilder in 1887.
?n ,be tlr P® of his arrest he was only an employee
Jiir® , clfl ° e - Weeks has a wife and five children who are
?• ent up . on iS labours for support, and at the pre-
n nnn !f?ni . 0W1 “8' 1° bis confinement, they are dependent
upon public charity for the means to live. Hii,dec has a
one obild. Defendants have now been irnpri-
mnnfUD6!76ll m 0? ? t * 8 > and have a further period of five
t 0 Ber /f before they can avail themselves of the
imprisonment for Debt Act.
A Big pot from “Home.”
Editor Bulletin.- Sir, —My opinions regarding
the semi-barbarism of abjectly grovelling before
clay to which birth, and often birth alone, has
assigned a position in life above us, being to a
great extent moulded by the views expressed
through the columns of your paper, I trust you
will not deem it amiss in me to comment upon the
actions of one fresh from the home of such abject-
ness -one who, though bringing much of such ex-
perience as will benefit Australia, brings also, in
counteraction, germs to further the already grow-
ing spirit of station-worship pervading our people.
I refer to a highly-paid Government official
who: e bearing and actions, during a recent tour of
inspection, forcibly remind one of the despotic sway
() * the ivussian Czar. Should he fail to remember
that his old aristocratic home is left behind, and
that Australia is his present scene of action, the
respect of those who should be his supporters will
bear a decidedly Nihilistic tinge.
* * *
Whilst in the obscure region from which I write,
the subject of my comments ordered a local
officer to bring him a certain paper, after which
Tv fell ui ato a P rofound reverie—his mighty mind,
, “urcdny presume, evolving some gigantic scheme,
lhe officer, on his return, finding the demigod in
this trancs-like state, respectfully recalled him to
the vulgar order of things by gently touching his
hand with the required paper. Whether some
noble undertaking was thus frustrated, or whether
the vulgar touch of such coarse clay as Australian
Civil servants possess polluted him, I know not,
but, abstractedly gazing into the sky, in true
home ’-affected tones he drawled : “Someone is
touching my hands. I presume he wishes to
address me ; if this be so, I would impress upon
the intruder the nec sssity of forgetting his previous
line of conduct under the old discipline, and of
approaching me with the deference T will insist on
receiving.”
* • .
Several instances of a similar display of un-
necessary arrogance have occurred within my
knowledge, but a fear of trespassing too long on
your attention, as well as a sense of humiliation,
forbids my mentioning them; yet I trust that what
little I have said will show you the necessity of
zealously guarding our independent spirit, and
holding in check the power that is not content
with an honest man’s true respect, but would
fetter with servility his spirit of freedom.
*
This is not a mere private matter and my com-
plaint arises out of no paltry spite. The effect of
such incidents, considered in relation to the whole
Civil Service, is ultimately more potent and far
reaching than are the effects of the lavger-lookin
and more public actions, which are the chief
facbors of a man’s reputation among those no','
under his control.— Australian.
An individual who keeps dogs for the avowed pm
pose of “ Riving a gentle reminder to unwelcotm
guests no doubt bis tykes squawk even at |the
passing policeman with the big midnight feet—-
writes to the S.M. Herald complaining that one
of the brutes has been poisoned, and asserting
that if their “nightly howling disturbs people
that’s their look-out, nob bis.” Just so; and if
they are poisoned, that’s bis look-out, not theirs.
As a matter of facb a dog barks to disturb his own
“unwelcome guests’'—fleas, cats, the man in
the moon, &c. —not his master’s, and as of these
canine _ aversions come frequently people re-
siding in the neighbourhood of a dog of any vocal
capacity are continuous sufferers. There are only
three available remedies—emigration, strychnine
for the dog, strychnine for yourself. The con-
tinued yapping of a pack of snarling curs in the
long run exercises quite as bane r ul an effect on
the average brain-worker as would be pro-
duced by an immediate prol from a seven-
inch knife ; and the mere fact that a man
has paid dog-license 3 for seven or eight
snarling mongrels gives him no more right to
render unendurable the lives of his more refined
and sensitive neighbours than the Lei of his
having paid license fees for seven or eight guns
would give him a right to cold-bloodedly and
wantonly slay with buckshot the fellow Opposite.
The dog-nuisance, against which the common-
law of England provides an effectual, if costly,
antidote not yet experimented with in Aus-
tralia, has developed into a curse in ciby and
suburban life The Bulletin will be glad at any
time to give its subscription towards the legal ex-
penses of any tortured man or woman who will set
about making an example in the courts of one of
the many inconsiderate and unneighbourly people
who care never a rap whether the hearse comes to
the man across the road so long as the butcher
continues to call at their own residences, and who
pompously insist on “the right of every man to
do as he likes on his own ground.”
The Bulletin is the Bushman’s Bible.
Daring the last 50 years the United
Kingdom has lost 52,000 men in war and 77,000
by suicide, while France, Germany, and Austria
combined have sacrificed 316,000 men in battle,
against 010,000 who have shuffled off this earthly
stage because they were too tired to live any
longer. There is a subject here for Pastor Jefferis
to muse about in his old age.


Ben franklin printing office
AND
MERCANTILE STATIONERY WAREHOUSE.
W. M. MACLAKDY,
Stationer, Engraver, General Mercantile Lithographic and
Letterpress Printer, Diesinker, Embosser, Bookbinder,
Aocount Book Manufacturer, &c., &c.
Maclardy's £5 Box of Stationery a specialty. Send for
List 0/ Contents.
Note Address—
-319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—Now opening a Large Assortment of Xmas Cards
and Fanoy Goods. Inspection Invited.
For Mental Prostration
USE horsford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. H. Walker, Auckland, N.Z., says : “I have found
it to act very well in severe mental prostration and
nervous depression. I find it indispensable in my prac-
tice, having taken careful observations of its action for
over twelve months.”
Keferee
The newly-formed. Sydney Cricket Club,
started under the wing of the Association Ground
trustees, are, indeed, a fortunate lot. In the past,
cricketers have not had occasion to be particularly
t hankful to the ground management for favours
received, and the extreme generosity now ex-
tended to the new combination smacks of the
absolutely wonderful. So, evidently, think the
N.S.W. Association who have steadfastly refused
to admit the new club to their fostering care.
When it is considered that for years past men
who have been playing cricket for a quarter of a
century have been refused entrance by the gate
most adjacent to the cricket, whilst the members
of the new club are made honorary ground
members with all the privileges of those who pay
their annual subscription, outsiders may well ask
what’s in the wind ?
• •
Stroke A. L. Smith, of the N.Z. repre-
sentative four-oared sculling crew, said, after the
rac« in which they were second, that the Maori-
landers would have just about won had not
their boat been half-full of water. They finished
with loti up their sleeves, and were disappointed
at being beaten—Victoria won—though not “ all
out.” Mr, Smith mentioned that the N.S.W. crew
showed the best style when they were paddling up
to the starting point, but when it came to racing
they did not dip deeply enough, and seemed to sub-
ordinate everything to a decent appearance in the
boat.
* * *
When the old stallion Musket (sire of
Martini-Henry, Nordenfeldt, Volley, and a host
of other good ’uns) died at Auckland (N.Z.) the
occurrence was regarded almost as a national
calamity, and men who had never been at a race-
meeting in their lives joined in the general protes-
tations of regret. A well-known original, named
Tommy Cahill, who did not know a horse from a
donkey, met a sporting friend, and remarked,
“ Well, I’m sorry to hear that the Musket colt is
dead.” “He wasn’t a colt,” replied the sport
with a fine shrug of contempt at the other’s
ignorance. “Oh! you know very well what I
mean. I mean the one that’s dead is the old filly
himself!'’
* * •
Victoria, as usual, wants to boss cricket in
Australia, and as South Australia and Queens-
land, in this instance, back her up, she is likely to
carry out her desire. The arrangement wished
for by Victoria has much to recommend it, In-
tercolonial matches between Sydney and Mel-
bourne have been on the wane for years past, and,
as a matter of fact, have resulted in a loss to the
Victorian Association. It cannot, therefore, be
wondered that there is a desire felt to work up a
little fresh excitement. An annual fixture —
N.S.W. v. South Australia—in place of one of the
fixtures with Victoria, would bring grist to the
mill of all concerned. Lovers of cricket are as
fond of a change as other people, and as the Crow-
eaters are as strong, if not stronger, than any of
the other colonies, the match would be sure to im-
prove cricketing matters generally.
The Akarana, the smart N.Z. yacht,
which performed so brilliantly at the Victorian
regatta, was built by Logan, of Auckland, who
also built the old Taniwha now in Sydney.
Akarana is the Maori equivalent for Auckland.
« * «
In the big glove-fight Sandall weighed
lOst. 101 b. in his buff. His measurements were :
Ohest, 39in. ; waist, 27in. : biceps, 14iin. ; fore-
arm, 12in, ; thigh, 22in. ; calf, 14. Vim Seale’s
weight was 10at. 7pb.
• * •
The Australian Eleven start a match in
Sydney, versus a local eleven, on the 21st inst.
The Maori footballers have knocked spots
off a representative Irish football team and have
played other matches, fortune mostly being on
their side.
* • f
Five of the highest scorers at cricket dur-
ing the past season are teetotallers —Grace, Read,
Paterson, O’Brien, and Eccles.
* &
Jack Conway’s paper, the Spouting Life,
severely criticises the management of the Sandall-
Seale glove-fight. The statements in the article
referred to are such as to deserve searching investi-
gation by all lovers of fair sport.
* * «j
Ten bookmakers lost £230,000 among
them over the Cresarwitch victory of Tenebreuse.
Ten Hebrews.
• ft
Hon. E. Mitchelson, of N.Z., the owner
of Whakawai, Tranter, and other well-known
racehorses, is so disgusted with his bad luck on
the turf that he has decided to give racing best.
• •
Tom Hales, the Archer of Australia—
more the Archer than ever he was since his
magnificent performance in the V.R.C. Derby—
is 42 years of age.
• ft ft
A Victorian backer took as the “ griffin ’’
for the principal events at the V.R.C. Carnival
the initials of the words “ Centennial Exhibition,
Melbourne,” and accordingly backed singly and in
doubles Ensign, Chicago, and Mentor, for the
Derby, Melbourne and Caulfield Cup 3.
Champion Searle has got himself into an
oarful mess.
ft ft ft
It is the sickle-nosed bookmaker who reaps
the harvest of the turf.
• * •
There was some £254 in the “ house ” at
the Seale-Sandall fight. Larry Foley had £l5O
for the rent of the hall, and the expenses reached
£124, so that the concern showed a debit balance
of £2O! Sandall wished the affair to take place
in an ordinary hall which could have been ob-
tained for a fiver, but Seale declined to fight any-
where but at Foley’s.
• «
Mick O’Brien has quietly subscribed £lO
to a fund being raised on behalf of the family of
the late Fred. Johnson, jockey. Not bad. that,
for a careful young man like the rider of Mentor.
* * *
ODE TO A SPIELER.
He lives a life of glorious ease,
Nor soils his hands with labour ;
He seldom prays upon his knees
But always on his neighbour.
—Exchange.
• * n
The People (London) alludes to Searle as
“ the coloured champion.”
* • «
Heard in Pitt-street: —“ I tell you he’ll
win the next Melbourne Cup. He can stay for a
week.” “A week ! Why, I have been told that
they do not take much more than three minutes
thirty seconds for that race.”
* * *
Sandall alleges that even if the first round
had been fought out the full three minutes he
would not have gone under. He says he was a
bit dazed and nervous at Seale’s onslaught, but
that was all.
* * *
Spalding’s “ Great American Baseball
Combination ” arrive in Sydney to-morrow,
Friday, and will, on landing, be welcomed by a
committee of their countrymen. The team in-
cludes many of the leading exponents of the
American national game, and Australians will,
for the first time, have a chance of seeing matches
between teams of such prowess as the “ All
America” and “Chicagos.” In the States, base-
ball has supplanted even horse-racing in public
favour; the professional players of crack clubs re-
ceive monstrous salaries. Millionaire Spalding, a
MRS. LOUISA COLLINS
(THE BOTANY POISONER.)
lover of the game, has organised the present
descent on the colonies with the object, it is
alleged, more of introducing it here than as a mere
money-making speculation The combination will'
be five months in the colonies and will visit, be-
sides Sydney—-Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Bris-
bane, Ballarat, Bathurst, &c. The teams have a
cricket-coach with them and intend playing
cricket-matches in most of the towns they visit.
We observe that all the leading newspapers in the
States have representatives with the players.
• • *
The President of the M.C.C. was cruelly
reported in connection with some luncheon-ora-
tory last Saturday. Firstly, Mr. Smith is charged
with saying that much of the credit of the Aus-
tralian Eleven victories was due to the two
redoubled bowlers, Turner and Ferris. Then he
appears—in the Herald —to have protested that
the M.C.C. had no desire to abrogate any unfair
portion of intercolonial matches to them. This
sort of thing amounts to a criminal offence. But
perhaps Smith did use the malapropisms !
•
Coming after the recent slashing encounter
between the rival amateurs, the meeting of Slavin
and Dooley, at Foley’s Hall, Sydney, on Monday
night, in an eight-round encounter for the so-
called championship of Australia, fell terribly flat.
At least, Mr. Dooley fell terribly flat. The en-
counter lasted about two minutes, when Mr.
Dooley received his quietus from a right-hander,
which landed well round towards the nape of the
neck, and it was some minutes before his seconds
could bring him round. Slavin has improved
wonderfully, but it is a farce to talk of champion-
ships whilst Black Jackson is in his prime.
• * *
The people who paid £1 a head to see the
above-mentioned fiasco thus spent their money at
the rate of exactly ten shillings a minute or two-
pence a second.
* * *
That strapping and expert young oarsman,
Styche, who pulled No. 2 with the N.Z. inter-
colonial four oar crew in the recent contest, has
decided to remain in Sydney, provided he can
obtain employment at his trade as a watchmaker.
■» * •
Bubear, the English sculler, is coming to
Australia. He had better stay at home. In a
square race he’d be beaten by at least six men
here, and as for the “cronk” business —well;
we’ve no need of imported talent.
« • •
Judge Clark, who has for half a century
been the leading official of the English turf, has
retired. His name is mentioned in the closing
lines of Gordon’s poem “ How we beat the
favourite.”
» « •
Our friend young Lord Dadley, of black
tile and white trousers celebrity, who recently
came of age, has been betting so wildly that a
horsey dry nurse is suggested for his safety.
* * *
A few weeks ago, in a few lines of
rhymed advice addressed to champion Searle, we
took occasion to inform him that “ Suspicion of a
crook is destructive to all chance of lasting
fame.” The warning apparently fall on stony
ground.
# * *
Three clergymen of Molong (N.S.W.) bit-
terly complain that though the Government pro-
claims holidays for horse-races it refuses to pro-
claim public holidays to enable the public to pray
for rain. If, however, the Government did set
apart a day for prayer for rain, the proprietary-
racecourse-fiend would at once take advantage of
the holiday by announcing a race meeting, with
the Supplication Handicap as the principal event.
« » *
That blushing bride, the Duchess of Mont-
rose, has quarrelled with her old trainer, Alec
Taylor. Her dear hubby, the boy Milner, was
pestering Alec continually with awkward ques-
tions, so the latter turned round and told the turf
Adonis “to ask his grandmother.” As the
Duchess is three times as old as her husband, the
reply was a stinger.
* • O
Dan. O’Connor seemed overjoyed to see
Sandall punch Seale. Such is the freemasonry of
trade. Sandall is not a por/<> butcher, though.
• * *
News comes from England that a prize-
fight there recently ended in a draw, one of the
competitors being a Chinaman. We never thought
that the Chow could sink so low as that,
• • *
Ned. Trickett, the ex-champion sculler,
has horrified the Rockhampton licensed, vic-
tuallers by selling beer at 3d. per glass. Trickett
from past experience should do the “long pull”
as cheaply as anybody can.
* • *
The bumptious Joe Fraser has been giving
a diagnosis of Champion Slavin’s skill in Joe’s
own column of Melbourne Herald. He winds
up by saying that Slavin “is not at all anxious to
take more than his share of punishment.” Can
this be why the fight to a finish against Dooley
degenerated into an eight-round affair ?
# * *
The N.S.W. Highland Society holds its
23rd sports meeting on Sydney Association
Ground, on New Year’s day. We notice with
much surprise that though the programme in-
cludes so ignoble an exercise as catching the
greasy pig, the prize for which is £l and the pig,
no whisky-drinking contest is announced.
• * *
Ben Bolt, a horse that has done little enough
since he landed the Caulfield Cup of 1886 .with a
brilliant dash, has found a new owner in Mr.
Jack Saqui.
* * *
That festive ex-Australian, Jubilee -Jug -
gins-Benzon will not need to earn his living at
driving a bansom-cab or shining boots. He
has £BOO a year left, the capital of which he
cannot squander, and it is also averred that his
sister, Mrs Foster, means to come to the rescue.
Be this as it may, Benzon has commenced proceed-
ings against The World for stating that he was
refused admission to the ring at a recent race
meeting.
• » *
W, G. Thomas, the crack N, Z. footballer,
will, in future, be a resident of Oobar, N.S.W.
* • *
Burrowa (N.S.W.) is the home of knightly
deeds and joyous song even as are Tower-hill and
Koroit in Victoria. It boasts a large and
aristocratic Italian population. Every second
man is named Ryan, and the intermediate men
are called Barry and Dwyer. There isn’t enough
money in Burrowa for all the inhabitants to get
comfortably drunk together. However, they
make what coin they have go a creditably long
way towards this object. When Tom Slattery,
M. 8., goes up there lie marches round to all the
hotels (there are nine of them) and lays a fi-pun’-
note on the Counter of each with orders to the
landlord to supply all-comers until the money is
exhausted. For the time Burrowa fairly wallows
in grog and all is bliss; the man who ventured to
say “ Down wid Slattery !” in or near Burrowa at
such a juncture would be dealt with by the Ryans
and Barrys in true Limerick fashicn. A man got
killed in a Burrowa festivity once, and the fellow
who was supposed to have done the job was put
on his trial. He made no secret of the matter :
“ Sure there was a bit of divarsion, and, seem’ his
head forninst me, I gev him just a l it of a tap
wid the back of my axe what wouldn’t hurt no
man.” A Burrowa jury verdicted that deceased
met with his death from injuries received. Such
is Burrowa. This is by way of introduction
to the following anecdote. Some athletic
sports were promoted there and two first-class
Sydney pedestrians went up under false names to
clean out the guileless countrymen. One went
under the common or garden English name of
Smith ; the other, with more sense and a thorough
knowledge of Burrowa and its ways, entered him’j
self as “Docherty.” The race came off and
Docherty won, Smith nowhere. Smith im-
mediately entered a protest against Docherty for
running under a false name, and both men were
called before the committee, the names _ whereof
when read out sounded like a curse in Irish, end-
ing up with “Lanigan, Hooligan, Ryan, Dwyer.
On the entrance of the men the cum-mittee spoke
up : “Come in, Misther Docherty. Ye’re among
friends —a good ould Irish name is that same
Docherty—sit down Misther Docherty. Take
off yer hat, Smith—-don’t ye know how to
behave yerself among gintlemen—what’s this
protest ye’ve entered aginst Misther Docherty
here ?” Smith was better at running than talking,
but he explained, in his own peculiar grammar
with its linguistic disguises culled from the Rik-
raffkrke and other sporting journals, that
“Docherty wasn’t Docherty at all, he was a
cronk cronk being a Referee word meaning,
pedestrian impostor. “Whare’s yere proofs?”
said the cum-mittee. Smith said he could. get
plenty proofs from Sydney, if allowed time,
“ Don’t talk to us about Sydney. Projuice your
proofs here, an’ now !” Smith said he had not the
proofs in his pocket, but could get them in a day.
Then the committee rose up and delivered its de-
cision : “ Ye’ve entered a protest that this gintle
man is not Docherty but a cronk, and ye want time
to projuice your proofs. Then the decision of this
cum-mittee is that, proof or no proof, cronk or
Docherty, Docherty or cronk, he takes theshtuff.”
And he took it, begorra.
* * *
The late Jem Punch, pulling against
Harry White, June Gth, 1859, covered the mile in
smin. 35sec. This time has not been beaten since,
but it was reached in the recent Searle-Stansbury
match.
* - *
Any hopes of a Victorian cricket “re-
vival ” during the coming season were ruthlessly
destroyed last Friday, when the Australian
Eleven met the local champions on the M.C.C.
ground. With everything in favour of fast scor-
ing the Victorians pottered away the entire day
in tinkering together 149 runs. This must be
written down the most melancholy exhibition of
steady cricket on record.
Australia badly needs an organisation
analogous to the English Jockey Club to take
professional rowing men in hand, and to have the
power to punish by disqualification rowers con-
victed of unfair conduct. The rowing clubs
might elect the supreme body who could offer
a trophy which would be a concomitant to the
championship so long as it remains in Australia.
The givers of the trophy should have the power to
withdraw it from any champion who “did a cronk,”
and such withdrawal should be understood to be a
termination of the championship so far as the de-
linquent was concerned. A man who holds a
championship in any branch of sport is, to a
certain extent, a representative of his country,
and the course we propose would prevent a
national distinction continuing in unworthy hands.
* * *
Jack Burke has challenged the winner of
the Slavin-Dooley match.
* * *
With reference to the ban imposed by the
A.J.C. on the Rosehill Racing Club, and quite
apart from the merits of the dispute, the view
we take is this : The A.J.C., besides being the
principal racing authority in N.S.W., is in busi-
ness competition with the Rosehill R’.C. as a
purveyor of sport. It therefore has no more
right to sit in j udgment on its own case than
a magistrate would have to adjudicate on a case in
which he was interested as a party to the cause.
This is sound logic, and the sooner the A.J.C.
backs down from its present unjustifiable posi-
tion the better. The Rosehill R.C. in its brief
career has done more in the interests of sport
than has the A J.C. in the whole of its aristo-
cratic and haughty existence.


QOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM,
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Sydney.
The People’s Picnic Ground.
Ye Olde Englishe Punch and Judy Show.
The Marvellous Snake Charmer
Every Afternoon and Evening fgf At 4 and 8 o’clock.
The Magnificent SWIMMING BATHS !
The Sensational TOBOGGAN !
The Performing SEALS '
Every Saturday until further notice Costume Swimming
Carnivals for Ladies and Gentlemen.
Christmas Holidays ! Great Preparations!
First Announcement! Commencing December 19,
Mr. A. P. SMITH, The King of the Rink.
The original Speciality, Character and Acrobatic Performer
on Rollers.
Sunday Nex'—Two more Favourites!
Miss COLBOURNE BABER, the Young Australian
Prima Donna;
Mr. ARTHUR R. LAWRENCE, the talented Actor and
Elocutionist; and other distinguished artistes.
Open from 10 a.to, to 10 p.m. Admission, Is; Children, fid,
A. E. BTOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Struck Oil ” p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.—“ Marie Antoinette”....., ~
Criterion. —“ The Private Secretary ”
Haymarket MuSiO Hall.— Harry Rickards ~
New Opera House. —Minstrelsy ~
Elite Skating Rink. —World’s Circus
The divine Essie has come forward to re-
assure the anxious world with an emphatic de-
claration thalt Plain Bill Holloway did not receive
£6OOO, or any other sum, for abrogating her con-
tract to join Him in a professional trip to England,
inasmuch as np such contract existed. It is very
good of Miss Jenyns—beg pardon, Mrs. Wood—
so to do,’ but the arixious world need hot have
worried itself about the mlatter. Had such a con-
tract existed, it would riot have been worth the
paper it was written on, since Miss Jenyns, being
of full age, as we all know (for were we not called
upon to rejoice on the occasion of her twenty-first
birthday in October of last year ?), was entitled
to get married when and where she liked,
and matrimony annuls all contracts whereby
a woman’s personal attendance iR assured or con-
strained. That provision of the law is the reason
why managers are always so fearfully jealous of
matrimonial attentions paid to juvenile star-
artistes. Some of us are old enough to remember
the flare up when Goppin and Brooke tried in vain
to enforce their contracts with Fanny Gathcart
after she became Mrs. Robert Heir ; more of us
have a lively recollection of the row which took
place when a certain young English marquis paid
his addresses to Adelina Patti long before she
married the Marquis de Caux. The Strakosch
family, who had toe fair Adelina in tow, brought
the Marquis to Bow-street Police Court for tres-
passing and disturbing their house, while he threa-
tened to obtain a writ of habeas corpus and charged
them with the detention of his inamorata. Finally
the lady cut the gordian knot by writing to the
papers to say than she had every confidence in her
brother-in-law, Strakosch, and was very uncertain
about the Marquis, who at once withdrew his
pretensions to her hand. The truth is that all
such contracts, infringing as they do the liberty of
a woman, are held as null when she marries be-
cause they would otherwise operate in restraint of
marriage, a thing the law does not permit. It is
only fair to Mr. Holloway to say that, so far as
the public know anything of his dealings with his
fair stepdaughter, he has been guided by the
firmest resolution to advance her interests.
* # * *
Slowly, like a square bun rolling up hill,
the thin semblance of a crowd drifts into Her
Majesty’s Theatre (Sydney), where Signora
Majeroni’s magnifioent acting is thrown away
on unresponsive wood. In days gone by the heirs,
executors, and assigns of the boosted aboriginal
have rolled up in thousands many a time and oft
to scream over some disjointed and ramshackle
drama whose dismantled fragments were held
together by ropes, and shored-up with hoop-iron,
and attached to the tottering walls of probability
with lies and tattered scenery and ber-lud, but
the soul-moving pathos of “Marie Antoin-
ette” is wasted on an irresponsive public
which requires to have its attention dis-
tracted by human remains. The well-meaning
handful which attends weeps copiously under
the influence of the Signora’s magic spell, but the
larger section which stays away does not weep at
all—neither does it pay. Perhaps if King Louis
“the Last” were a trifle less resigned—if he
would slither out of a window and down a gas-
pipe— though there weren’t any gas-pipes in those
days—and if he would kick the representative of
the indivisible republic heavily on the chest in a
last frantic struggle for his falling crown, “ Marie
Antoinette ” would go better, butt he does none of
these things. The tragedy of the hapless Austrian
lady is a ceaseless procession of disasters wiohout
a single gleam of comedy or mirth, and except
among the few lovers of genuine art it falls
flat and unappreciated. Signora Majeroni’s
representation of the fallen Queen is an
exquisite picture of noble womanhood —but
the Bridget who wears the big bustle and the hat
that looks like a kitten having fits in a rhubarb
pie has no inward craviDg to soar to any such
elevation, and the gallery-seat where she used to
whoop is lonely and deserted. Mr. Jewett makes
a respectable Louis XVI., and gilds that crowned
botch with sundry virtues which are not con-
spicuous in history. Louis XVI., however, can
never be properly delineated on the stage, for if
the slowness of his character were sufficiently ex-
pressed at least six long acts would be filled in
with him sitting down to think, and the seventh
aet would be fully occupied to show him stutter-
ing and filling in a long document to explain why
he had resolved to wait a while longer before he
did the thing that he had been contemplating about.
Gonsequently, the old king has to be compressed,
and Mr. Jewett compresses him judiciously.
Mr. Walter Howe is a ghastly and woesome
collapse as Lafayette, but Miss Fitzroy and Miss
Roland Watts-Phillips make up to some extent
for his awful shortcomings. Huge, burly, over-
grown, bass ruffianism is successfully pourtrayed
by Mr. J. W. Haz’itt ; and shrill, undersized,
dog-meanness by Mr. G. R. Bailey, who, in com-
pany with other assorted crimes, revolves round
the queenly Signora till a late hour. The feeble-
minded tail-end of the company —and the company
at Her Majesty’s is very largely tail-end—has
little to do but stand round with its hands full of
popular tumult, from which we gather that the
spirit of justice still lingers upon earth, and in
various ways “ Marie Antoinette ” deserves a long
run, though the signs at present are decidedly un-
favourable.
# # # #
“ Maritana ” under difficulties held the
stage at Sydney Gaiety for seven stormy nights,
and then succumbed to make way for “Girofle-
Girofla.” Last week, under a misguided desire to
bear light on an erring company and afford the
operatic sinner due space for repentance, we con-
tented ourselves by observing that the Dora
Wiley combination was not all that our fancy
had painted it, but instead of improving,
sundry members of the aggregation went steadily
from bad to worse. The melodious Mr. Warwick
Gainor’s piratical aspect grew more and more
piratical as the days rolled on, and as he trailed
his bulky form trirough Wall ce’s composition
the results became constantly more disas-
trous, The by bo means uncomely Miss Wiley
also kept on striking pensive attitudes in »
shapeless bridal costume which made her look like
a keg of beans in a reflective mood, and things
in general went to seed. Under these painful
circumstances “Maritana” dragged out its
solitary week of troubled existence, and
“ Girofle-Girofla ” lived through a storm of
45 minutes’ duration, and then died amid the
ructions of an audience which wanted to break
something if it didn’t get its money back. It was
8.35 on Monday evening when the orchestra
at last resaLyed to strike the tuneful lyre and
trust in Providence for its current salary, and ten
minutes later the curtain rose on a chorus of about
eight sorrowing females, certain others having, it
was alleged, gone home in a state of active insurrec-
tion. Miss Josephine Deakin, the pretty and
clever little lady who so bravely shored up “Mari-
tana ’ in its dying hours, and Miss Lena Salinger
made a preliminary appearance, and Mr. George
Dean, as Don Bolero, entered with a pleasant smile
-—and then calmly stated that everything was
busted up. The company, he said, were
not in a fully-p Ad-up condition, and the
chorus-gr'■Diemen having finally declined to
appear ? ■ ill, the show would now proceed to go
kite-high u aless the persons who owned the enter-
prise would come forward with the coin. Then Mr.
Dean waited for a response, but the finan-
ciers appealed to not putting in an appearance
the drop-scene descended with a dull, depressing
thud. Proceedings were resumed in the vestibule,
where some of the audience took up their position
and stated that they were going to have their money
back or dash the premises into a crumbling heap.
The management, however, were not on view,
and ultimately the last patrons of the show
were visited by the strong arm of the law and per-
suaded out into the street. The unfortunate prima
donna, meanwhile, lay in a dead faint in her
dressing-room, and at a late hour water was still
being thrown upon her in a vain effort to bring
her round. Taken altogether, it was the saddest
fall that ever happened to “ Girofle Girofla ” since
that double-barrelled lady entered into opera. It
was afterwards announced in print that the com-
pany would endeavour to rise again from its ruins.
* * * *
A holiday programme, which is almost too
vast for human conception, is announced at
Coogee Aquarium. It embraces pretty nearly
everything under the sun, including swimming-
matches, concerts, acrobatic performances, rink-
ing, &c , and at the end of all these glories the
management lavishly announce “ prices as usual.”
It is a blessed thing to live in a country where
prices are as usual.
# * # *
Sydney Criterion is still crowded to the
doors by an eager multitude, who come to gloat
over the sorrows of the unhappy curate with the
bath-bun, and the “Private Secretary” seems
good till the end of Time. At the Royal “ Struck
Oil ” is to be succeeded at the end of this week by
the “Shadows of a Great City ” ; and “Wanda ”
—an adaptation from one of Ouida’s novels,
in which the brawny hero is covered with scant
and leaves sovereigns and bank-notes lying about
loose all over the house—is in active preparation
at Her Majesty’s.
* # # #
Miss Ethel Grey, a pretty and brilliant
actress who is gratefully remembered by many ad-
mirers and other persons of affluence, has organ-
ised a strong dramatic company which will shortly
be let loose on the gritty intellect of the dwellers
in the Western plains. The new combination
starts its undermining career at Wellington, pro-
ceeding thence to Dubbo, and will strike Cobar
about Christmas. It will then pursue its path of
desolation to Bourke, after which it intends to
vanish over the edge of the horiz m and loom up
again in sundry remote wilds where few dramatic
companies have ever lived to tell the tale of their
adventures. A quantity of elaborate scenery will
be humped along with it, and unless it is over-
whelmed by a dust storm good results are ex-
pected.
# # * *
The lessee has offered to the members
of the embarrassed Dora Wiley Opera Company the
use of Sydney Gaiety for a benefit performance.
# * # #
A huge brown poster which has found its
way into this office announces the advent of the
World’s Circus, which opens at Sydney Elite
Skating Rink on Saturday, 15th inst. If the
assemblage of talent in question answers in any
way to the wild and hair-lifting sketches supplied
its success will be calculated to uproot the mental
faculties in one act.
# # # *
Miss Carrie Swain, with “ The Tomboy ”
and the tank, has been drawing very good houses
at the Adelaide Royal. Miss Swain’s excellent
vocalisation and artistic dancing have made her a
warm favourite, but it is the tank that fetches
the godly inhabitants. The patrons of the stal's
have, however, been amusingly jealous of the
consistent supporters of the drama who
occupy the gallery. The stalls people have been
annoyed very much to find the Olympians obtain
so excellent a view of the tank scene and Miss
Swain’s exhibition of swimming, while, on the
other hand, the gallery boys are delighted that
their more aristocratic friends below see nothing
of this portion of the show. Naturally enough,
ill-feeling ensues. John Forde ably supports Miss
Swain, and Baby Ogden is a host in her little self.
“ The Miner’s Daughter ” follows.
* # # #
Under the influence of Rickards’ magic
spell, the new Haymarket Music Hall has risen
to sudden greatness, and the business is extensive
and suffocating. The Hiscocks-Friedman com-
bination are also reaping a decent harvest at
Sydney Opera House, and the Crystal Palace
Rink has been temporarily transformed into a
theatre, and will be occupied for a brief season by
the favourite Jungfrau Kapelle, commencing on
Saturday next.
# # # *
Frank Clarke’s All-star Combinaticn
opened to an ill-used audience at Sydney Academy
on Saturday, and fired off once more the old jokes
which Aaron composed in the desert and wrote
with his toe upon the sand in the days when
literature was still in a primitive condition. The
company includes one man of genius—Sylvo, a
marvellous gentleman who undresses himself on a
slack wire, and standing on that unstable
eminence balances five whirling tin-pots on five
sticks on five different parts of his expressive
countenance, while he smokes a cigarette and
keeps three balls spinning in the fragrant atmos-
phere ; two respectable musical artistes —Mr.
Devoe and Miss Oakes; and the Per man trio,
consisting of two boys and a girl, who do a skip-
ping act with ropes that are soaked in naptha and
set on fire at an early stage of the performance ;
and against these there is a debit of a dozen
mediocrities and John Collins. This latter per-
son appears dressed in bright green, and in a
voice like the wail of a half roasted saint ex-
presses a desire to die upon the field. Next
Saturday, however, the company; will be reim
forced by the arrival of Dave Marion and Minnie
Bell, two much-advertised artistes from New
York, and the valued Gunther, who manages,
anticipates a boom in consequence.
# * * #
Jusfe before Baldwin, the parachutist, left
London for Australia he had a benefit tendered
him at which 60.000 people paid jfor_admissionj»nd_
60,000 more didn’t pay but got there all the same.
We can imagine the feelings of Baldwin when he
lands on Circular Quay, Sydney, and hears, for
the first time, that an antipodean watchmaker,
Williams, has equalled, and, under all the circum-
stances, beaten him, at his own game.
• * *
For the fact Is that last Saturday Mr.
Williams, a Sydney man, ascended from Ashfield
Recreation Grounds in Captain Hendon’s balloon
to a height of 6000 feet, and then leaving the gas-
bag, returned safely to earth, hanging on to a
parachute of his own construction. Williams, it
appears, had “ kidded ” the Ashfield Ground pro-
prietary that he had previously performed serial
feats—fearing that if it were thought he was a
novice he would not be allowed to make the
attempt. However, this daring amateur was
completely successful, and is now the hero of the
hour with lovers of the dangerously sensational.
On Baldwin’s advent we predict for these gentry
plenty of this particular form of amusement.
* • •
The two parachutists will doubtless com-
pete for the “ Parachute Championship of the
World, and £1000,” with Larry Foley as time-
keeper, and Dan. O’Connor as referee, in a little
balloon all to himself—no jostling, or taking the
other fellow’s air, or claiming a foul unnecessarily,
or any of that sort of thing allowed.
#* # *
“ It’s Never Too Late to Mend ” has
taken the pi *ce of “ Hands Across ” at Mel-
bourne Royal, and this second successive drama
of British-Australian interest will act as a mild
antidote to the first do 3
In the matter of moral purpose this familiar play
is not entirely satisfactory, however. The re-
wards and punishments of Providence are served
out with a reckless disregard of poetical justice,
and the story of the hero, in particular, is only
suitable for a Sunday-school tract. That a con-
victed prig knocks down six warders and contem-
plates killing the master of the gaol with a flag-
stone, is not sufficient reason for granting him a
free pardon and sending him to Australia, where
he can immediately find a chunk of shining gold
weighing half a ton. Moreover, it is mean of the
penitent thief to learn the whereabouts of this
precious metal from an unsophisticated savage,
and then give him a box of matches as his share of
the swag. Again, the prison-master merely loses
his billet for torturing a boy to death, whereas the
boy had been put away for lifting three potatoes.
If the murderous official were suddenly stricken
down by a clap of thunder, or something, it
would seem more proper like. Mr. Charles
Warner's performance of the leading cha’-
acter is spoilt by his frantic endeavours
to fill lhe public eye, but many of the other
people achieve a modest success. Towards the
end of the first act, when there is no ‘'star”
visible a pretty situation is prettily carried
through by Mr. Herbert Flemming and Miss
Isabel Morris. The picture is made more ioopres
sive, too, by a suitable touch from Mr. Hambro,
and the dumb presence of a dog. Mr. Elton
scores freely in his ridiculous part, and the grace-
ful Miss Gracie Warner creates an impression as
the badly-used boy, notwithstanding a tendency
to whine in a voice which will never allow her to
do anything large Finally, Mr. Harry Leston
contrives to bs unaffectedly comic as a stage abo-
riginal, some of the others might be better, and
th 3 remainder don’t signify. Scenery is very first
class. Alsr, the lights are so effectively managed
that a party of diggers can sleep from sunset to
sunrise in exactly 83 seconds.
*# # #
Obher Melbourne theatres flourish, despite
the parched condition of the interior and the
shocking mortality among flocks and herds.
Squatters shed salt tears upon their arid plains,
but “Hans the Boatman ” plays blind-man’s buff
with the children same as usual. Not a drop of
rain has fallen upon the Alexandra since Miss
Dampier began to have “ The World against Her,”
yet her father persists in running that lugubrious
drama to great business. It is strange. The
Opera House also attracts an intelligent class of
humanity, especially on Italian nights. Car-
men mashe3 htr t°rreador for the last time on
Friday, and “Norma” will be generally on the
bill until Monday next.
*# # *
“ Princess Ida ” took the place of
“ lolanthe ”at Melbourne Princess’on Saturday,
that elegant resort being crammed in accordance
with long-established custom. Considering that
there is a wide tract of country at the back of the
dress-circle, it seems a pity that the triumvirate
esn’t, or won’t, mark off a few more allotments
and erect seats on them. Not for the sake
of getting richer, but in the interests of hu-
manity. The spectacle of a seventeen-year-
old sylph standing on her No. 2 feet at the
back while a hundred fat men are seated
in the depths below is very trying to a sen-
sitive nature. It is the duty of very fat men t o
get up and oblige a lady, yet they have been
known to stick to their seats in the last row, while
the poor, little darlings were actually breathing
on their wicked bald heads, “Princess Ida” is
better than it was last time in Melbourne, in so far
that Miss Nellie Stewart has come back like a
goddess refreshed with nectar, to play and sing
the name part. Otherwise this feeblest of Gilbert
and Sullivan’s operas has gained a little in the
rendering, and in will boom for 12 nights.
The R 0. members of the Victorian
Assembly are mostly Freetraders. In N.S.W.
they are Protectionists. In either case they are
“agin the Government.”
When Dooley was knocked out on Monday
night his seconds brought him round with a dose
of Marshall's Tonic Nervine, which he always
keens on a handy shelf for such emergencies,
For ten weeks Pettitt’s drama, written with the
vain intent
Those breaking bonds which bind us to Old
Hingland to cement
Gave Warner opportunities to talk a slushy tag,
Or fall into an attitude beneath the blessed Flag,
While fiddlers played a melody in keeping with
the scene,
Quite tenderly suggestive of Her Majesty the
Queen.
But now does Charley Warner sling the senti-
ments of Reade,
He curse 3 British systems and denounces land-
lords' greed—
That dear old mother country, once the subject of
his Bobs,
He reckons up at present as a wretched “ land of
snobs ”
So, comparing the beginning of his season with
the end,
We say with Mr. Warner that It’s Ne’er Too
Late to Mend.
CORRESPON PENCE
“ B ” wants to know whether the person who
designed the new N.S.W. pcstage-stampa was also the de-
signer of the Sydney Post office carvings. likely he
was. Anyhow, he was an equally great artist.... “ Corn-
stalk”: The subjeot shall have our early attention
“ W.L.M.": There oan be no question as to the com-
petency of Mr. Charles Lyne, but all the same his ap-
pointment to a fat secretaryship over the heads of the
N.S.W. Civil Service shorthand-writers was a gross and
shameless job “W. J. Mort”: Please don’t sing ahy
more about wattle-bloom or the bushman’s lonely grave.
Sing about the Chinaman's grave “W. Dowset ”: Your
Foreign-trade party have nothing to boast about in the
alleged fact that the big meat-freezing works projected
in Sydney are a result of Victoria’s stook-tax. There are
hundreds of unemployed and half-starving artizans in
Sydney, and we would rather see them eating meat than
see it exported to England. Years ago, when Sir John
O'Shanassy revisited his native Tipperary—where the
average man eats meat about twice a year—he was enter-
tained at a banquet at which the chairman, by way of in-
dicating the county’s prosperity, gave a catalogue of the
number of pigs, sheep, and oattle exported. “Gintle-
men ! ” said O'Shanassy, “ I have just oome from a country
where they eat meat four times a day before exporting any.”
TrotterßethuneMany thanks.Gympie ” : You
are so condensed as to be incomprehensible.. .. “ N aro ”
(Bedfern): You win. Sandall was under list "Carl
Wilhahnj” (Woolloomooloo): You oertainly are a poet,
but why tell us the fact in 14 long and rather dreary
verses ? Wait until you feel yourself ohook-full of the
divine afflatus. Then pull out the plug, let the spirit
caper, and send us along the result “Cervantes ’
(Melbourne) : Hoary joke “A. Elliston : ” Yes,
so long as it is done in a fair and safe style....
"C.H.” (Grafton): A lively story, which we had never
previously heard “Inquirer” (Hokitika, N.Z.): No,
“Auger” is not the Australasian's Sooial Puriby man.
“Augur” does their sporting “Sufferer” (Mary-
borough, Q): His qualification is doubtful, and, in any
case, he is by no means the best man to consult....
‘ ‘Boomerang ” (Albury): An uninteresting and obviously
spiteful attack “Banana Jimmy” (Brisbane): Write
again, and tell us the connection between football and
Epsom salts “Quercus” (Sydney): An uninteresting
Brutality “A Reader” writes: “Your Sydney Hospital
Consultation scheme is the smartest thing ever done by an
Australian journal.” “ Rookambole ": Thanks. We
don't necessarily support M‘llwraith—we only support his
National Australian policy. We don’t support anybody—
except our wife “Republique” (Melb.): The Austra-
lian Natives' Association must be a spineless lot to accept
as their bosses and mouthpieces a set of men who blow
hot one day and cold the next. Are they, or are they
not, going to support Gillies and “ God save the Queen,"
and all that sort of thing, at the next Victorian general
election ? That is what we want to know. Not that Bent
and his crew are much better, but it would be a good
thing to sweep out Gillies and Co. just to encourage Jhe
others. Sometimes the key-note of the meetings of the
Association sounds like the tocsin of Liberty and Austra-
lian Independence ; and then the report of the very next
meeting reads like a record of the doings at a gathering
of the Primrose League....“ Daniel Saeahan”: Better
write to the Minister of Justice. If your friend brought a
libel action against us, after the manner of J’s P., we could
not get our proofs under an expenditure of a thousand or
t co.. “Spectator” (Warrnambool): Glad the potato-orop is
healoby, but The Bulletin is not an agricultural paper...
“CL.”: Many thanks “Unionist or Noa-Unionist”:
We like the ideas in your poem, but the expression is
somewhat defeotive. Try again “ Pick and Shove”':
We are still cogitating over your letter “ Legal Re-
forms” : Much too long. May utilise in oompressed form.
....“ J. Power” (Melbourne): There isn't any connection
between the two matters, and the Argus only runs them
ogether because they are both about railways. The
Argus keeps its ideas arranged alphabetically, and com
oines fevers and fortifications in the same paragraph
DecausB they begin with the same letter “H.J.T.”
Melbourne): No bullock-team ever jolted ever a c.rduroy
oad as jolts your Pegasus. Still, you put the case for-
cibly, so here goes:—
BRAVO, QUEENSLAND!
Bravo, Queensland ! I like your pluck,
Your manly youthfulness, your candid speech.
Are we but babes unfit to choose
The governess who shall us letters teach ?
Or arc we men in years, perhaps, young,
Without the cunning, yclept experience, of age,
Who bold declare our land shall not become
The bankrupt’s hoarding-ground, the scavenger’s wage ?
Dear England, I admire your “ oheek,”
Your good old solid British impudence,
T > foist on us the paying of your tools—
What think you have we more of, cents or sense ?
We will not take your Bailiff Blake,
But if his joints be stiff, he waut a treat,
Then let him call his Crowbar Band together,
And do good work for once in Do vning -street.
Bravo, Queensland ! I envy you the van, ' t
Our canting, crawling toadies keep us back,
And in delivery of rehearsed spontaneous yelling
Bid high for snobbish titles they should not lack.
“Sans Souci ’’: Thanks for your interesting letter.
“ W.K ” (Nvngan): Goodstory. Please write in ink, and
m one side, of paper only, next time “Harry
Diamond ” : Good joke. Handed to artist.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain Woifs’a,
Hope for tbe Deaf.—Nicholson's Patrntbd Art
fioal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness In all Its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effeoted. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,'
illustrations of the Drums, ooples of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
eared by these Drams, and who recommend
SIOHOLSON. Wtt.t.tam IffaltKtwua,
FORBICtS STAMPS FOIt COHECTIOMS : Our
new price list can be obtained on application.
Selections of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, POST FREE 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. 43T Old collections purchased.
p. A. YIMPIM A co„ Box 660, General Post
Office, »raMß¥.
SWEET BOBOgfiA. the New re f IlJ .i^ ( i,,
factored from th West Austral" ofl) & „
Sold Everywhere.
to
the
gowrfe 0 '
Megistiguia.”
65., and 10s. Post free
Australasia. Be sure y° u ®
FRANCIS LONGMORE. 138
MELBOURNE. a „ n
When next you bake try be as " ,bi
Rom,«b Floub. and your bread w» a
Aboriginalities.
Among the superstitions in which the
Australian blackfellow indulges, is one common to
nearly all savages and religious parsons, viz., that
certain people can make rain. When the civilized
man wants rain he pays a medicine-man in a white
choker to lift up his supplications to an Heaven ;
when an Australian black wants rain he
gets his medicine-man to work, in the following
manner. In every tribe there are one or more
individuals who possess a peculiar kind of white
sbone, a crystal of some sort usually, which they
call a “gibber” (phonetic spelling) Hence the
common term “gibber ” applied by slangy people
to all stones. The blacks believe that if this
“ gibber ” is left out at night with certain cere-
monies, rain will fall next day. Oub on the
Macquariejon one of the stations was an old black,
almost the sole survivor of his tribe, and the
happy possessor of a beautiful “gibber”—a
splendid clear crystal, which he kept hidden from
profane eyes in a bag of kangaroo-skin. This
gibber was of great reputation, and the owner of
the run used to bell the old black, “ Jimmy ” by
name, that if a drought came he would expect him
bo dispel ib by use of the mystical stone.
At last a drought did come—a real solid, earth-
baking, stock-starving drought. The sheep com-
menced bo die, and the water-holes were all dry-
ing up. One day Jimmy wandered into the head
station, and the owner pulled him up “Look
here, Jimmy,” he said, “ big drought come now;
that fellow ewe got no milk, that fellow lamb die.
You put out gibber make rain tumble down,”
Jimmy looked up at the sky—the red-hot, oven-
like sky—and saw no chance of rain. ‘ ‘ Drought
no come yet,” he observed. “Ewe gob plenty
milk, lamb no die. Bymeby, if rain no come, I
pub out gibber.” The boss offered to give him a
bottle of rum if he could make it rain, but Jimmy
was like the Scotch divine who saw no use in pray-
ing for rain with the wind in the wrong quarter,
and he refused to chance his reputation. The
drought got worse, and several times Jimmy was
bold that he could get a
bottle of rum if he made
it rain, but he always re-
fused to try, saying that
the drought was not come
yet, and that the stock
would easily manage to
live. However, when
bhings were about at their
worst, Jimmy appeared
one day at the head-
station, and asked if the
rum-bottle was still to
be won if he made ib rain.
There was not the least
sign of rain, the sky
looking just as leaden
and hot and parched as
ib usually did, so he was
assured that the offer was
still open. He said,
“ Mine think it time put
oub gibber, that fellow
ewe close up got no milk,
lamb close up die.” Con-
sidering that not only
lambs bub all kinds of
stock were dyiog, the
owner of the run cor-
dially agreed that ib was
quite time to pub the
“gibber” oub. So Jimmy
went away about sun-
down to stand the gibber
up on the edge of the
river bank with the ap-
propriate ceremonies ;
and the station owner
looked at the sun sinking
in a fiery haze out on the
edge of the plain, and
he thought of the rum-
bobble and wished that
Jimmy might get it, and
went to bed. And be-
hold in the night it
rained like the Deluge,
soaking everything, fetch-
ing tbe river down a
banker and starting the
grass to grow so fast that
you could hear it hurry-
ing oub of the ground,
and Jimmy came up and
got his bottle of rum, the squatter merely remark-
ing that he wished to Heaven Jimmy had put out
the gibber a bit sooner. The blackfellow must
have seen some sign in the sky which told him
that rain was coming and that it was safe to back
the magic stone; but to white men it looked as
big a miracle as anything in the Bible.
* * «
In that once desolate corner of the earth
where N.S.W. and Queensland and South Aus-
tralia meet, the thriving township of Thargomin-
dah forms the centre of the districb where Burke
and Wills lay down to die, and hither a little
while ago came a stalwart Jackaroo who had tried
Melbourne life for all it was worth, and found
there was nothing in it. He came through the
droughty north-west with a band of deceut fel-
lows, a big mob of cattle, and no le3s a chief than
the manager in person, and, all things considered,
they got on very well until they neared Cooper’s
Creek, when one fine day the pack-horse, which
bore the city man’s swag, balked and got clear
away. Our friend was badly left, having nothing
remaining bub a Crimean shirt, a pair of trousers,
a pair of boots, and a cabbage-tree hat, which in-
vestments the pack-horse could not take away
because their owner was wearing them when he
deserted. By good luck the loser had his watch in
his pocket, but his jewellery, clothes, and cash had
disappeared. He made the best of it, his mates
helped bo rig him out, by and-bye he gob clothes
and money from Melbourne and soon his loss be-
came only a tender memory to swear over at odd
times as one may over a tender corn when a bight
boot touches it up a bit. One day the owner of
an adjoinding station discovered at a spot some
70 miles from the scene of the disaster a company
of crows tearing and squawking over an object in
the fork of a tree, and there was the missing swag
none the better externally but practically intact
—jewellery, money and valuables all complete.
Now the ruling passion of Young Australia was
strong in our J ackeroo, and he thought that money,
thus wonderfully restored to him, must have some
Bpecial virtue in it; so he sent it all down to in-
vest in the Cup, then near at hand, and waited
the drawings with complacency. * He never drew
a horse and the Thargomindah rum-sellers agree
with him that “ the crows might just as well have
kept the —— money for all the good ib did to
him.”
* * *
Old Smith, of Woolloomooloo, died the
other day, and when the sad news was gently
broken to his unregenerate n°ph :w, that worthy
said : “Hanged if I go to the miserly old cur-
mudgeon’s funeral. Confound his soul-case !”
And the old man’s obsequies were not graced by
young Smith’s presence. When, however, a few
days later the defunct’s will wa3 read, and ib was
found to contain the bequest of a terrace of houses
he shed tears of deep contrition, and now goes
round explaining that if the old man would only
die over again he’d attend the funeral even if he
had to miss a Sandall-Seale glove fight.
Dear Bulletin, —For playing the game
low down, the following is entitled bo honourable
mention. The Commissioner of Railways (Vic.)
paid us a flying visit. The Mayor waited on the
illustrious one, and invited him to quaff cham.
The visitor accepted, an hotel was soon reached,
and the liquor produced. A pressman—fishing
for a par. after the manner of hi 3 tribe —attended
the interview, was invited to partake of the cham.;
partook, you bet, and all went ahead according to
the rules laid down by Cocker and other great
authorities. But hardly had the pressman
reached his den and washed oub the taste of the
fizz with a pint of shandy, when a bill, sent by the
Mayor, informed the ink-slinger that his share in
AT A MELBOURNE LAND SALE EREE LUNCHEON.
WAITER! “YOU AIN’T NO BUYER, CLEAR OUT! ”
MELBOURNE CHILD: “WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THAT? I TAKES BRANDY AND SODA.
AND IF YOU DON’T LOOK SHARP ABOUT IT I GOES AND TELLS YOUR BOSS HOW
YOU TREATS THE PUBLIC.”
the cham. shivoo amounted to 17s. 6d Thirty-
five long beer 3 in exchange for two glasses of
Moet! The lever that moves the world is in-
sulted and the fulcrum knocked from under it. I
ask you is our bill-3ticking Mayor fit to be a
Mayor and drive in a carriage?—C M.G. Way-
back, 30th. Nov.
* * *
Nelson (N.Z.) is a balmy paradise where
everyone knows how much blue everyone else puts
in the wash, and the arcadian publican an
idyllic existence which alternates between roses
and rum. Nelson has a town-crier who. for
luminous loftiness of diction, could give points to
that Biblical bellman who cried aloud in the
wilderness. The visitor standing on Nelson’s
main street at noontide, when the hum of the
bee and the snore of the fly-bitten cabman asleep
on his box, chewing straws, are the only
sounds he hears, may suddenly be startled by a
voice, compounded of dyspeptic tom-cat and buzzy-
saw on iron, whooping thusly : Ladies and gen-
tlemen, —The sale which will be precipitated at
the Auction Mart this diem, and which I now
annunciate to you, soporous supralapsarian cog-
noscenti, is, I can circumstantially asservate, the
most apocalyptic and cataleptic affair conceivable,
This is no eleemosynary sale, no mere brachio-
frodus barter.” (Here a cabby probably awakes
and ejaculates “ Bah !”) “You elongated, spindle-
shanked spavin, you son of a glandered gander,
drive your hearse out of this Go home,
you anthocephalus ! Go to your stye, and soak
the profound vacuum where your gory brains
should be, dash, and double-dash you ! Go, you
acephalus, whip yourself round the ramparts of
Sheol with a lash wove out of . As I was
hobserving, ladies and gentlemen, before inter-
ception by that spontaneously generated anthro-
pomorphous corpse-carrier, the sale,” &c., &c.
* * *
Here is a swindle from Braidwood, N.S.W.
Ah Jack, a Chinaman, who had £35 in the local
Bank of N.S.W,, died, and several of his sorrow-
ing countrymen promptly decided to annex the
money. So they wrapped the dead Chow in a
blanket, carted him to the bank, and demanded
coin, one of the sons of Confucius directing the
dead man’s hand in making the necessary signa-
ture. The bank-manager asked Ah Jack the
usual question : “You acknowledge this to be
your mark ?” and was then horrified to find that
Ah J. was as dead as a door-nail.
* • *
Amenities of bash life. M.C. at wayside
public-house ball. Recalcitrant company mixing
things up generally: “ Now, then, ladies and
chaps—ladies’ chain —now, then, ladies in the
centre —gentlemen advance—Oh dear, Oh dear—
Mrs. Kelly—Mrs. Kelly, your bustle this way,
madam, if you please.” Mrs. Kelly sits down
and declines any further dances.
« * •
For brutal frankness Queensland journal-
ism takes the cake. A Norbhern paper, speaking
of the presence in its town of the member for the
district, says : “ This disgraced piece of Parliamen-
tiry humaniby returned to this morning.
He has actually returned. Our readers may feel
sceptical about the assertion, bub we have seen
him. We have been compelled to breathe in the
same street, and further forced bo realise the
humiliating fact,” &c., &c.
* •
On a Northern N.S.W. river Is a settler
who, though a well-educated man himself and a
consbant advocate in the Press of education for
the masses, has let his own children run wild with
the bandicoots and other stock on his selection.
His olive-branches, nine in number, scarcely knew
the alphabet, bub were well up in bush lore,
and when parental wrath had reached the point
of looking for a shingle they were wont to escape
the threatened tanning by darbing into a hollow
log—ia fact, this was their “ Rustenburg ” when
any crisis, such as the call of a stranger at the
homestead, arose. The father, though a good
Catholic, had neglected having the youngsters
christened through being so far from a settlement,
and a priest making his house a halting-place
on a professional tour was asked to do the
job and turn off the lot in one batch.
The youngsters no sooner heard this suspicious
and incomprehensible proposal than with one
accord they made for the nearest hollow log,
whence entreaties and threats were alike power-
less to entice them. But, being an Irishman, the
father (not the reverend) was not overcome by this
little difficulty. Having made a careful inspec-
tion, he ascertained the proper sequence of the
youngsters, and gave the priest a list of their
names as they lay in the log. His reverence then
went through the ceremony over the log, until it
came to naming them, and then he sat astride one
end of the log with a bottle of holy water, and the
father jabbed the victims up at the other with a
long prop, and, as each young bandicoot broke
cover and made for the bush, his reverence dashed
a drop of holy water at him and yelled his name
after him as he disappeared in the friendly ferns.
•
In bhs N.S.W. backblocks, the other day,
an infant died through sucking a purple monkey
climbing up a yellow stick —or some such childish
complaint. The doctor who had attended “ the
case ” gave a certificate of death, but subsequently
finding that the child had another name than the
one it had died under, he withdrew the certificate
and wants the local sergeant of police to exhume
the body and find out if it is the corpse of
“Thomas Henry James,” or plain Thomas with-
out any trimmings. P.S.—The docthor comes
from Galway.
Once upon a timeon aNew Zealand goldfield
there was a mine noted for its disheartening un-
productiveness, called, let us say, the Rose of
Sharon. A Jewish family named Aaron had the
principal voice in the direction of the concerns of
the mine—one Aaron was manager, another
Aaron was manager’s clerk, a third Aaron was
something else, and even the smallest of the
flock drew a pound a week from the consoli-
dated funds as mullock-trucker. One fine day a
sleeping partner in the non-dividend paying
concern, a Mr. Schleinterstein, came up
to inspect. He was taken down the &
and winze, through adit and rise, but »
particle of quartz was to be seen. On ret
to the surface again, Mr. Schleinterstein too' v,
principal Aaron aside and said: l n( joD
I vant to make a leedle shoke— may I • a( j(jer
Aaron assenting he proceeded : “ Vat s thein
mit this mine is dot there is too mouch A
aboud it—too much Aaronsh and b°o .
Mosesh.” “How so?” said the Aaron b ; iB ,
slightly. “ Mine frient, geep your demi> e >
only a shoke. The Scribtures say, y OO , yol i
that Mosesh did shdrike on rock, 0 g a !
Aaronsh push have nodings but mullocksn.
Ha ! Too mouch Aaronsh and too
Mosesh.”
* *
The heat was intense, and while they
in the verandah the conversation turned . .jj e>
force of whirlwinds —several of which m ber,
The rabbit-inspecbor, who was one of the how 110
appropriated the bun when he told them an 4
once saw a hollow log taken up in the >
when ib had reached a height of 20 t o6 ® tr the
ground a rabbit bolted oub bo see what ' a j|
matter. This paralysed the company and
coughed slightly and withdrew to ®
Florrie and some split sodas.
Dear Bulletin, —I read in a Queen®!* 0
paper that “ Mr. Charley Byers, son 0 my
Robert Byers, of Cassilis, N.S.W., who , r j o g
made the big ‘ tally ’on Isis Downs by “ the
230 ewes in one day, has for a good while gina l),
‘ringer’ of Western Queensland. Be 1 a
well made, about sft. 4in. in height, anu j aC p,
dark, good-humoured, and rather hands 0
When he handles the shears one would
an extra fast Wolseley machine was a u s-
Are you game to let me here say that t
tralian shearing record is held by Dick tn a
man, a Chow far more worthy of being,
good fellow than are most Caucasians . v
The people of Winton (Q.)
legend of the olden time and are giving the
unbearable airs in consequence. The stoiy gVf e»r
by the oldest inhabitant, who is prepared go f
that at certain times and seasons a l 0 0? the
spectral camels march across a dusty P la e dg e
vicinity of the town and disappear ° ver vo Xuti oOS
of the horizon. As they perform these e
a cold blast sweeps over the country, and
stricken spectator shudders. The came* to
periodically like a gas-bill and always co e y go
time, but where they come from or wher
to no one has ever found out. The olde . e %-
bant, however, concludes that some an rest
plorer perished, along with his camels an
of his fixings, in the vicinity of Winton, »
that his bones will be discovered if 6 gJ>e h»®
district is carefully dug up. So far n ° vf rW eljt
been able to ascertain that any explorer jtP'
amissing in that part of the world, bn p»ve
pression is abroad that the camels ® 3
belonged to Columbus.
* * * ryftV® 9
An Australian black the other day » jls
remarkable illustration of the native c ? b olJ ie °° e
was being told by a selector’s wife ot oO ea 0
having killed a beast belonging totbesta te st
Half of the animal had been removed an .j g tn
left to testify to the theft. On hearing jj oob-
native broke in with: “Dey was 9 a ,,,
Why didn’t dey dig im hole and bury l®,* t 0
people would see the earth Etirred np> speo fcor
reply. “Baal, mum—dig im cobbon Ujjeo o 6 *
hole longaside and chuck im dirt on top'
think pfeller bin along prospectin.”
" ~ -ved a i
Things have lately assumed a inl W- 1 '
tude in the neighbourhood of Gundaga l v aB ted
Some thousands of years ago Providence
river on that locality, probably under to o 0 ,
that the people who were coining
have brains enough to know what bo d f lV u
and the other day a resident made use o , ol>
to leave his dead body in without any n
This, we expect, wasn’t quite what w» do eS l e
when the stream was put there, but ® a pd "
matter. The remains were fished ° u ’
local doctor reported as follows :
Of fair complexion, judging from the h®* a ’ ge d bfjjiy
dead under three weeks ; death had been ca sp® a ia o
severance of the large artery of the neck, it
oaused death and prevented aotive resistance, an oe d
accounted for blood in the stomach : the s . e£V th e .' e fof e
done slowly and deliberately after death ; “ uo k ffc
from a fatal wound on the missing head, » ji>
the severance ; the head had been cut on ao yt‘ ll6 '
and had not been the result of contact wit»
the water. jf “
We conclude that the man in question see ll
was deceased. He was of fair comply l j^er o ’ fjff,
from the hair on the head that wasnit , c ut ,j,a
he had died through having his he a jjd
though it had been also cut off after de» aC {i v '® jf
fact of it being cut off had preventer a <*tid y
sistance. We never saw a man re» 0
after his head was off, but no doubt jpc/Pt J
have been persons who have done it 1 j c h
of great excitement. He also a d> e
fatal wound on the missing organ of w*® i
leads to the profound reflection that i« 0
when fatally wounded in parts that ar
if this man died from an injury to * Ij
wasn’t there it was strictly his own 1 08 (|
it is further to be noted that this ft^ at rf fcb 0
inflicted before the head was cut off* A til l
had been removed first and then the of c
inflicted while it was standing on a
it would have been different, but it , «fej ' aqO
way. Finally, the head wasn’t causeu ge ePp,f
tact with anything in the water ’’ wD
probable to be worth telegraphing * pta®" f° f i
man who ever saw a head caused by 0 c oF®
anything in the water is requested v oi 00 o>
ward and look at us in a shrill f°b e -„,,i
explain himself. The real, <
heads is a profound mystery, *? ce Js (
probably an interposition of Trovio
public good—or else they arise f r °*?L d o^ s
are hereditary, or they were gradua j $
so that man might have somet hing.
on, or else they were supplied so bn 11 ®.
might use them to gather facts wit uo ttf fi ei'L
remains found in rivers. In oRr (be
they are also useful to scratch w{u e
thinking hard, and at Gundagai they .
employed chief! v for the purpose 8
being discovered lying about dead of p
Further information on the sub]
anxiously expeebed.


Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratia with
Cr*S> A»ia Rlassean at the Cbowh Pmjumiby Oo.’»
Stands is tea axMMM®*. AH Melbourne
It an thii Been*.
Everybody should use
Patent Roi.usa Fi>oo*.
tgo.
Pemell’a latest best Snow-whits
U !e the greatest enooese of the
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
fiven for all kinds of Gent.’a Left-off Clothing.
)ress Suita for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., til
Bnnell-itmt, MBJIjBOTTRNIS
JOHN M'EWAN & GO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Ayents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &o.
36-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Vilias,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed list of Businesses for Sale issued Bally .
All Lists posted P ret on applioatioe.
Personal Items.
,They say that L. L. Smith doesn’t feel
very well himself.
Zola has disappointed Paris by writing tho
chastest and most innocent of books.
Mr. Matthews, British Home Secretary, is
a Colonial, having been born in Ceylon.
Sir Robert G. W. Herbert, the present
Under-Secretary of the Colonial Office, was once
Premier of Queensland.
Mr. John Gully, one of the best-known
and most meritorious of N.Z. artists, died the
other day at Nelson, N.Z.
Thady O’Kane, the versatile North Queens-
land journalist, is described as being 60 years of
age and as many in inches.
Alderman Whitehead, the new Lord
Mayor of London, is 54 years of age, and a
partner in a big firm of general providers.
It is reported from Victoria that Charles
Qtho Montrose (late of N.Z,), one of the best-
known and brightest of colonial journalists, is
dead.
One of the most prominent positions oc-
cupied “ at ’Ome” by Lord Onslow, the new N.Z.
Governor, was that of President of the Dogs’
Home,
Quoth Sir William Fox, the N.Z. teetotal
god, the other day : “I always wear my blue rib-
bon—why don’t you?” Replied the questioned
one : “ Because I can ‘ keep off it ’ without.”
The P. of W. ones invited “Charlie”
Beresford to dine at Marlborough House. “Char-
lie ” had something better on, so he wired :
“ Very sorry ; can’t come. Lie follows by post.”
There is a cleric stationed at Normanton
(Q.) who rejoices in the name of the Rev. Curzon
Siggars. He is indignant when the accents are
badly distributed. “ Curse on cigars” pleases him.
“ Dagonet ” asserts thab the most appro ■
priate title for the account of the latter days of
Frederick the Noble would ba “Mackenzie the
Maligned; or, the Brutal Bergmann and the
Bilious Bismarck.”
It has baen officially announced that the
fish-eyed, massive-jowled, money-grubbing Duke
of Edinburgh, is to be adorned with the order of
the “ Golden Fleece.” In the way of brutal sar-
casm this is simply unapproachable.
The value of the late Mr. Anthony
Hordern’s estate has so enormously increased since
his death that the N S.W. Equity Court has ap-
proved of an application by the trustees to in-
crease the annual allowance to the widow by
£2BOO.
A critic in the Edinburgh Review, while
giving Matthew Arnold, as a poet, the praise he
deserves for classical purity and rhythmic grace,
styles his work “a sandheap of shifting judg-
ment?, of trembling opinions, conflicting cries,
and crumbling creeds,”
A writer in Sydney Freeman’s Journal
says that the late W. B. Dailey was a superior
person to Albert Edward Wettin. We thus see
that the man, who, alive, was a basis of toadying
loyalty, becomes, dead, a basis of irreverent trea-
son. la this respect the latter use is better than
the former.
Mr. Gaorge Lewis, the English solicitor,
makes more out of the practice of the Jaw than
any other man living. Compared with bjs gains,
the income of the most successful barrister is in-
significant. He obtains whatever fees he chooses
to demand, and under no circumstances goe3 into
a police court under 100 guineas.
A Pall Mall Gazette man has just in-
terviewed the Mikado of Japan, and a represen-
tative of the London D.T. has “ gone one better ”
by jamming his note-book under the nosa of the
Pope. Leo, we notice from the report of the in-
terview, refrained from making any reference to
John Haynes or Pastor Madgwick.
When Sir Hercules Robinßon heard that
his brother William had got' a Governorship he
exclaimed, “What! Bill a Governor ! Why he’s
only fit to be a music master.” Of course some
(J d good-natured friend carried the joke to
“Bill,” and for years afterwards William, when
he met Hercules, scowled dreadfully.
The rumour raised in Queensland that
Lady Musgrave has taken the dead body of her
husband to England, reminds us that the same
thing was said of Sir Charles Hotham’s remains.
Sir Charles died while Governor of Victor lain 1855,
audit was said that Lady Hotham tookhiscorpse in
the Angelsea to England, and that the handsome
monument in the new cemetery at Melbourne was
raised over an empty coffin.
Dear Bulletin,—lt is perfectly true and
correct that a brother of the late Richard Cobden
(the great Freetrader) died in Molong (N.S.W.)
over 30 years ago, and was buried in the private
cemetery in Mr. Betts’ paddock facing the town-
ship. I attended him professionally during his
last illness, and was present at his funeral. The
grave was fenced in, but no tombstone was ever
erected over it. He died from an attack of
iaundiee.—Dr. Andrew Ross, M.D. Molong,
25th Nov,, 1888.
Bismarck has, it is cabled, been made a
Doctor of Divinity. His qualifications are that he
is grasping, gluttonous, and unscrupulous and so
cold-blooded that he will even run a brewery to
make money. The only differences we see between
Rev. Dr. Von Bismarck and the common or
garden variety of D.D. is that he has a lot of
brains, and until he accepted this dubious distinc-
tion we did not suspect him of being a hypocrite.
We never believed that the Man of Blood and
Iron would think such a thing worth while.
William Michel Rossetti writes thu3 of
“ those portentious cries of lyrical passion, out of
the depth of hard and horrid reality,” Francis
Adams’ “Songs of the Army of the Night :
“ With few exceptions, I find the pieces in the
volume to be admirable poetry, and the mans
heart which burns through them to be a
true, deep brother’s heart, aflame with a terrific
bate, which is one aspect of a glorious life. Ihe
Antipodes are not too far off for me to clasp and
grip hands with their author.” That is real mar-
malade !
Dr. Laishley, of Auckland (the dallies
erroneously call him ! ‘ Professor ’) is a somewhat
pedantic lawyer who recently made a tour ot
Britain and the Continong with the object of com-
piling a work on the educational systems of
civilised nations. The book, which is too awfully
learned for the average comprehension, contains
quotations from Greek, Latin, Sanscrit, Hebrew
and other writers in support of the author’s con-
tentions, such quotations being slung in wioh the
airy grace of a man who is a walking polyglot
dictionary. Laishley, some time ago, was made
an LL.D. of St. Andrew’s University, Scotland,
and his latest honour—that of Doctor of Philoso-
phy, Leipsic University, will just about fill up the
shingle that hangs in front of the law-office at
Auckland.
William Giffard Palgrave closed his singu-
lar career last month. A brilliant scholar, an in-
defatigable traveller, a daring adventurer, and a
deep thinker, he has passed away, leaving only a
couple of clever books to represent his wonderful
life. When a young man he changed his faith
from Protestantism to Roman Catholicism. He
joined the clergy and became a member of the
Jesuit order. Then he dropped the Jesuits,
dropped the R.C. Church, and went abroad. He
travelled as a Mahommedan doctor among
African tribes. He took office under Napoleon
111. He transferred his services to Bismarck.
He next undertook private embassies on behalf
of England. Among Orientals he passed as an
Oriental, among the Greeks he was a Greek.
Some of the missions he fulfilled would have cost
him his life had his nationality been discovered.
His father was Sir Thomas Palgrave, also a clever
man, whose real name was Cohen.
Dawvid Buchanan was stopped by the
N.S.W. Speaker for alluding to the Government
supporters as “these men.” “You are quite
right, Mr. Speaker,” replied Dawvid, “they are
no men.” This brought the Speaker to his feet
again. “ The hon. member is not in order in call-
ing hon. members ‘no men,”’ “TheD, Mr.
A FRIEND IN NEED.
CHRONIC BORROWER: “AH, HOW DE DO, OLD FELLOW. BY-THE-BYE, CAN
YOU LEND ME A SOV.? CAME A WAY FROM ROME THIS MORNING
WITHOUT MY PURSE, BY JOVE!”
OLD FELLOW. “I HAVENT A SOVEREIGH ON ME. AS IT HAPPENS, BUT I
CAN PUT YOU IN THE WAY OF GETTING THE MONEY,” (Taking out his
pocket-book)
G.B.: “AH. THAT WILL SUIT AS WELL. THANKS!”
O.F.: “HERE ARE TWO TRAM TICKRTS. HURRY HOME AND GET YOUR
PURSE, OLD MAN. GOOD DAY!”
Speaker,” continued D. 8., “lam at a loss to
classify them. If they are neither men nor no
men, I don’t know what to call them.”
Last month a certain Sydney magazine
published a poem by Premier Parkes and also five
pages of Government advertisements. Next
month it is going to publish an essay by Parkes,
and with it probably 10 pages of Government ad-
vertisements. The Parkes Government are the
extremely moral coterie who. at a Cabinet meet-
ing (held just before the Opposition evening
paper was first issued) decided to advertise only
in the best media, i.e., the White Waistcoat
dailies and their weekly waste-paper-baskets.
The mastar printers of Sydney, many of
them professed Foreign-traders, met in solemn
conclave the other day, and drew up the following
reply to a demand of the Typographical Associa-
tion for an increase of wages :
We certainly think it inadvisable to raise the minimum
wage to £3, as you know full well that the other colonies
have all a protective policy from 15 to 25 per cent, on all
printed matter and N.S.W. is a free port lor all the other
countries to pour in their goods upon us At the present
time, more especially in view of the present state of the
colony, we are not able to consider the increase to £3.
Which means that the masters could afford to pay
a higher rate of wages if N.S.W. had a Protective
policy. And how, Mr. Secretary Pulsford, does
this fit in with the favourite Foreign-trade argu-
ment that Protection carries with it a lowering of
the rate of wages? It is now the- clear duty of
the printers on the S.M. Herald, Daily Tele-
graph, E. News, and other Foreign-trade papers,
to strike, unless their employers agree to support
Protection.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Mr. C. J. Roberts is a Minister of the
Crown —and Anchor.
Another boom in Victoria. A million
surplus looming in the near future
Since the Melbourne land-boom collapsed
we hear no more of Gillies’ proposal to sell the
Kew Asylum site for £1,000,000 sterling.
The French now find their frontier for-
tresses very weak, the powerful new explosives
having a complete mastery over iron plates.
The latest election for the Victorian Legis-
lative Council was contested by three prominent
land-sharks, and the lot upon J. S. Butters.
S. M. Herald says : —“ Tho pocket is the
modern man’s most jealously-guarded possession.”
Thus does the capitalistic Press give itself away.
The Celtic Club, Melbourne, has cabled
£5OO to -the Lord Mayor of Dublin as a first in-
stalment of subscriptions to the Parnell Defence
Fund. And the Tories say the Home Rule move-
ment is confined to a few “ professional agitators.
The commandant of the Aiabs now besieg-
ing Suakim is said to be a thoroughly-trained
European, who is a particularly clever engineer.
Members of the Victorian Assembly will
continue to draw their salaries for some months
after the present Parliament is virtually dissolved.
Melville’s M.P., yell in the N.S.W.
Assembly in re the Railway Commission whom he
politely alluded to as “a crimson liar ” was the
shrillest on record.
It is said now in municipal circles that It
was the force of habit which induced a certain
Premier to grant a certain council an endowment
of only 5s in the £.
M'llwraith worked hard at his office up to
the last, but an unwonted irritability betrayed the
strain. Quite super-MTlwraithian was the plain-
ness of language used on these occasions.
The Union S.S. Co. intend running
steamers so as to convey N.Z. produce to Sydney
every week. Now, agriculturists of N.S.W.,
arise and give three ‘cheers for Pulsford and Free-
trade !
The attitude taken up by Queensland over
the Blake affair was largely owing to Kinnaird
Rose, editor of the Brisbane Courier. It was con-
sequent on a long interview which he sought with
MTlwraith that the Nationalist ex-Premier de-
cided to take the energetic course, and hopelessly
“scooped” Knubsford by calling in the co-opera-
tion of Griffith, thus making the rejection of the
buckshot coercionist unanimous.
An influential member of the Primrose
League has furnished the following testimonial
to his barber:—“ . Mr. . Your hair-
restorer is invaluable. My head grows thicker
every day.”
As The Bulletin alone foretold, consider-
able changes have taken place in the Queensland
Ministry, and there are probably more to follow.
But the rumour that Macrossan will resign is
quite wrong.
Sir William Fox, of New Zealand, has
delivered himself of the teetotal truth that there
is a great connection between Religion and Tem-
perance. Why, certainly! They are both
spiritual questions.
M‘ll wraith laughs rarely, but when ho
does laugh it is from within outwards —no beeth-
drawn crackling of thorns under a pot, but sheer
Homeric cachinnation, full of fun and frolic. He
rarely loves a good story—a not too good, eh ?
story.
Sir Somers Vine is coming to Australia
“ to organise a scheme for the establishment of a
commercial intelligence department.” Vine is an
oily person who has barnacled himself to Tummy,
to whom he has been a sorb of refined John
Davies.
In the West Australian Legislative Council
only four members of the Executive and Mr.
Horgari voted against a proposal compelling the
plaintiff in a libel action to give security for costs.
Mr. Horgan is evidently not a Horgan of public
opinion.
The South Australian Parliament shelved
last week the Bill extending the provisions of the
Employers’ Liability Act to seamen. Thus
Queensland is still the only place in the British
dominions where this extension of the Act has
been approved."
This is how Sydney E. News reports a
political opponent (who, by the way, happens to
be a director of the rival evening paper):—
Mr. Toohey made a long and unintelligible speech !! !
At the conclusion of Mr. Toohey’s speech, the House
adjourned for half-an-hour for refreshments.
A “Political Forecast” in the West-
minster Review thus reckons the disposition of
parties in the House of Commons after the next
general election Conservatives and Liberal
Unionists, 303. Gladstonian Liberals and National-
ists 307. Majority for the live party 04.
Any one who reads a verbatim report of
the opening proceedings of the Parnell-TiMKS
commission will be of opinion that the cabled
accounts which appeared in the capitalistic daily-
press of Australia about six weeks ago are, in
point of veracity, a disgrace to journalism.
Railway Commissioner Eddy, of N.S.W.,
dropped into a certain department, a few days ago,
and after looking round asked the manager
“ How many clerks have you here ? ” “ Twenty-
five, sir,” was the reply. “ Hum,” returned the
Chief; “I think you can reduce the staff to
twenty.” General joy among the clerks.
In the new Victorian Amending Electoral
Act Senator Wrixon, who is “an awful smarty,”
shrewdly introduced a clause which makes it penal
for a dead man to record his vote. On being
asked by O’Loghlen, M.P., what this meant, he
lucidly explained : “ I intend it to meet cases
where a man, who is dead, says he is not dead.”
For some minutes after old Jack Robert-
son read that the Times c»lled Victoria “the
chief Australian colony ” his life was despaired of,
and the venerable champion of N.S.W. remained
in a semi-unconscious condition until somebody
had enough presence of mind to call the Times a
blank dash fool, after which there was a marked
change for the better.
The foundation-stone of the memorial to
John Dunmore Lang was laid last Saturday by
Governor CaringtoD. Governor Caringbon pro-
bably did not know that John Dunmore Lang,
author of the celebrated letter wherein Earl Grey
was told “ that he had been knocking at the door
of futurity for the President of the United States
of Australia,” was an out-and-out Separatist.
Macrossan, the Queensland Minister, is a
small, dried-up little man of the new Irish-Ameri-
can type. Compressed explosiveness is the best
description of his slow, high-strung utterance. He
is the Celt who has learned by bitter experience
to prefer the gold of silence to the silver of speech.
As a miner his morose solitariness procured him
the title of a “hatter.” He has a future if any
man in Australian political life has.
Robert Harding is the name of a young
English Socialist, who, when he wants to speak a
little speech in the streets or squares, and say nasty
things about the fine old nobility, padlocks himself
with a chain to an iron fence or a lamp-post or
some other suitable fixture. When the “foorce ”
comes along to move him on they have a long and
lively time before they get Robert unhitched ;
and, meanwhile, Robert talks a perfect hurricane.
The reason of the rapprochement between
M‘llwraith and Griffith lies in their mutual agree-
ment on the subject of Protection. A good many
of MTlwraith’s supporters are Foreign-traders—
Morehead, Macrossan, Hume Black, and all the
Northern contingent. Many of the Liberals are
Foreign-traders. MTlwraith and Griffith are
both quite dissatisfied with the tariff. Coalition
may ensue if the Foreign-traders on both sides of
the House dare next session to show their teeth.
The rotten-egg episode at M‘Elhone’s
meeting in Sydney recalls the day that the once
celebrated lawyer, Townsend M'Dermott, bade
farewell, a long farewell, to his former constituents
at Ballarat amid a perfect tornado of hen-fruit
and blue metal. Taking advantage of a slight
lull in the storm Townsend leant over the rails
and yelled : “Goodbye—and d n you all! I’m
only too glad to have done with such a scurvy lot.
I’ve defended one-half of you, and the other half
I have prosecuted!”


THE JOYS OF GAOL.
Country Editor (in durance vile) : “ lb’s all ve-y well, s>r, for you bo preach about the ‘Joys of Poverty and the Sorrows
(f vv ea)th.’ All the same, if we had bad a little money we would not now be in gaol for libel!’ ’
Ghostly Comeortkr : “ Ah, my friend, be thankful. In gaol you need nob money.”
“ A CRIMSON LIAR. ’
Inquisitive Son : “Pa, what’s ‘a crimson liar ?’”
Pa : “ Alas ! my disobedient child, how often have I forbidden you to read the daily papers, and particularly the Parliamen-
tary proceedings ! ” (The old man proceeds to elucidate the matter with a slipper).
I’ARKES AND HIS PARACHUTE.
“ What a fall was there, n>y countrymen ! ”
Cartoons on Current Topies.


I
n;i: V-
i 1
oj a hvtdcLy Cre(t-Tura-
Q qanjwJ
Jacf ct ruc& hfoj Ct)ar 7 er>
cc <, 7berc cDccj CctMeddyj.
£jhy. rfccd actual Tvf'Jpt'
My '(d*y To 7*> e. ct fc'r
T Gnafyed-fho n, /W<>
yoffy e/t-r -fittf/'
I I j
77y e-- rtFe-'l-ir/jy—
A ip
PL/\ld J3/ll S>laks pE- I^^
JtfAk entrap
tyTrcLordii?CLr\> oj I\otyeoj.
cheerub. - Orufje
(married her Put'
J)
c/iff red
A Marriage in High Life: Last Appearance of Miss Essie Jenyns.


High Aet Photogbaphy. —For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLE MONT
& CQ., Royal Arcade, stand pre eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Oarington
“By Appointment.”
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Inventmnnt 00., TAd., 98 Bathurst-atreet,
Sydnusr
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B,— Only two hours from Melbourne
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1858.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
' JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS,
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs how being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE OOLONIIS
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
W. H. PALING ft 00-| M
*5B GEORGE STREET, two doo*« Isom F.OI
Society
The doctor’s, attorney’s, and dry-goods-
men’s “ ladies ” who shed evangelical sweetness
and light on the City of the Blast (Wellington,
N.Z.) are stirred to their profoundest depths by
the fact that the Earl of Onslow succeeds the
sainted Jervois as Governor. They feel that
though the Earl may not be so serious as dear Sir
Willum, still his rank hojsts him even nearer to
the pearly gates, and that consequently a re-
classification of Wellington sassiety is not only
necessary but that Providence has specially and
wisely entrusted them with that mission. But
there are difficulties. Among them is a rival,
richer, if ruder and less godly faction that also
aspires to lead, and jeers at the parsimonious and
puritanical cult of the reigning high-priestesses,
indulging in coarse inuendo touching “Breast o’
mutton gentry.” Storm clouds lour o’er the home
of the free. Premonitory squalls—couriers of the
elemental strife sbill below the horizon, have been
noted. For instance, Mrs. Z., who ranges among
the creamiest of Wellington’s cream, was in at
the butcher’s the other morning choosing her dinner
wibh the circumspection born of meagre income and
immense social pretence. She was pawing, poking,
and punching the meat about in a painfully free
manner. The shop was full. Mrs. O’Flaherty,
one of the rival clique, watched the meat-mauling
with ill-repressed snorts of disgust. Presently she
walked close up to Mrs. Z., who took not the
faintest notice of her. When Mrs. Z. began to
manipulate a leg of mutton on which the O’Fla-
herty had fixed a generous eye, the latter re-
marked : “There’s others has to ate that mate
afther ye has glaumed it about, mem.” Mrs. Z.
involuntarily assumed a pinched expression, but
her eyes had the look of one gazing into eternity,
and she paddled the joint wibh redoubled ardour.
Then O’Flaherty brought down her fist with a
flop like the crack of doom, and said : “ Lave
down the mate ! Lave down the mate, I tell yez !
Who knows, begorrah, where your dirthy hand
has been !” Mrs Z. fled, routed. Bub such un-
happy incidents as this show that a storm is
brewing between the Houses of York and Lan-
caster. Possibly the Earl when he comes may
prefer the richer and jollier crowd. The others
are poor, pious, and proud as people generally are
who are always calling themselves sinners and
worms.
* * «
A Mr. Fawcus, or Focus, or Fioorcloth, or
some such name, writes to a British agricultural
paper to point out that the horse, as at present
constructed, is “too stilted an animal,” and is
badly in want of re-organisation. He proposes to
take a bit off the beast of burden here and there
and put it on somewhere else, and turn other
parts of him round back to front, and, by doing
this, he believes that a really superior brute could
be manufactured at moderate cost: —
The task that I would suggest to breeders is the
shortening of the metatarsal and metacarpal, the cannon
bones, by about one-half their present general length, and
my reason for wishing to do so is that I think it would
give an increase of both speed and power: for I have
noticed that a short cannon bone in cart horses is always
associated with a long step and great power, and a long
stride is of equal advantage in a thorough-bred for gallop-
ing. And giving what you take off the cannon bone to
increase the length of the femur and tibia, the thigh and
shin bones, would give ease to all the paces.
We rather like this programme, and intend to buy
an improved horse as soon as they are ori the
market. But what we particularly want to sug-
gest is that, while Mr. Flatfoot is on the job, a few
alterations might be made with advantage in th e
breed of human beings, the ordinary stud Cau-
casian having gone to seed a good deal of late.
Among other things, it occurs to us that the hair
might be moved with advantage off the head and
put on to the feet, and that the head itself might
be moved down a little so as to be on a level with
the ordinary keyhole, thus enabling the common
or stereotyped citizen to find the lock without
going down on all fours and often being unable to
get up again, on a dark night. Then if the waist
were put up where the head generally is it would
facilitate the hang of a fellow’s pants, and if the
principal vital organs were hung outside in place
of inside it would save a vast expense in doctor’s
bills and qualify the owner to discover at once
what was the matter when he didn’t feel well,
young man. Also, the arms might possibly be
lengthened to enable him to go on all fours when
he was tired, or else a pair of collapsible teles-
copic legs might be added which could be furled
or unfurled at pleasure. These ideas, of course,
are merely an amateur’s impressions of what a
human being ought to be, but they could be edited
and revised by competent anatomists till the cor-
rect design was arrived at, and then the process
of cultivation might commence at once. An im-
proved and revised horse is. no doubt, an impor-
tant consideration, but an improved and revised
man to drive the horse is at least equally essential,
and we desire to impress upon botanists, physio-
logists, and others that the matter is one which
requires their best attention and wants it at once.
* * *
Broken Hill is a serene and peaceful spot
where the choicest flowers of the human soul are
always in full bloom. Its prevailing feature is an
oppressive silence—a stillness which can be felt —
a subdued melancholy which belongs not to this
world ; the moss and the grass grow there around
the tree of life, and the air is h«avy with the
utter motionlessness of repose. But now and
then a faint breath of excitement blows athwart
ART.
LADY VISITOR: “HOW VERY SWEET YOU PAINT, MRS. BROWN; AND DID
YOU MAKE THE FRAMES, TOO?”
the stillness and rouses the turgid intellect of the
place from its slumber. For example, a few
weeks ago, when Broken Hill was sunk in the
lowest depths of depression, the day’s record
totalled up an alleged criminal libel, a miner
blown to shivers through sitting down to see a
shot go off, a man stabbed in the street, another
man committed for trial for arson, and a hotel
burnt to the ground. It wasn’t much, of course,
but it kept the silver-miners from dying of hope-
less ennui while waiting for something cheerful
and inspiriting to turn up The N.S.W. miner is
a tender flower, and when he is removed far from
the joyous influences of home he requires some-
thing to happen occasionally to keep him up.
Complete repose undermines his constitution, and
hurries him into a premature grave.
# * •
His Excellency of West Australia is a nice,
retiring gentleman who doesn’t know how to blow
his own trumpet —that is, not much. At a
“swell” banquet at Perth the other day, H.E,
said that a S.A. farmer had recently visited this
colony and he (the Governor) had personally shown
the agriculturist round the grounds of Govern-
ment House. The audience drew its breath at this
unparalleled instance of vice-regal condescension.
Then Sir Napier went on to tell the company that
his West Australian visitor had said: “Your
Excellency, someone told me that you were a
tyrant. Why, you are one of the pleasantest
gentlemen I have ever met.” His hearers, having
gradually come round, hurrooed with true
Swan River fervour, the band played “A Fine
Old English Gentleman,” and the Governor sat
down conscious that by one Bismarckian utter-
ance he had done himself a good turn, and had
moreover tightened the bonds that bind, &c., &c.
to the dear old, and so forth,
* * •
One of the clergymen attached to a cer-
tain Sydney cemetery draws from his church a
stipend of £460 annually, apart from his per-
quisites, and so on. In addition to this be receives
7s. 6d. from the cemetery trustees for every burial
at which he reads the service. His cheque on the
latter account for last month amounted to the
handy little sum of £37.
• *
Mr. Carter, of Melbourne, was hauled be-
fore the judicial adversary the other day, and ac-
cused of his son Samuel not having attended
sqhool the requisite number of days in the half-
year. The defendant sorrowfully pointed out that
his son Samuel wasn’t attending school any more
because he was dead and gone, and then there was
a lons pause and the engine of the law had a rest.
After a spell, however, it rose up refreshed and
fined Mr. Carter five shillings because poor little
Sam aforesaid hadn’t attended with sufficient
regularity before he died—and the astounded
parent paid the fine, and tottered away to make
room for the nekt case. The law is mighty and is
bound to prevail every time or burst.
» # *
St. Stephen's Review of a recent date
contains a paragraph which may cast some light
on the rumours concerning Governor Carington’s
return to Hingland.
• * »
Mr, John Osborne, in a recent lecture,
stated that Mr. Julian Ashton’s argument, that no
one could be a thoroughly competent art-critic,
unless he were first a painter, was absurd, and
then pointed triumphantly to Ruskin as a proof.
Now, as a matter of fact, he merely furnished Mr.
Ashton with another argument, for Ruskin was
an artist long before he became a critic, and those
who know him best assert that a good painter
was spoilt when he took to art criticism.
* ® *
In Auckland (N.Z.) there is a convent of
Dominican nuns and also another establishment
called in sarcasm “the Convent” from the fact
that the carryings-on there are, to put it mildly,
by no means of a conventual character. When
Bishop Luck arrived recently from a trip abroad
(he is a slim, active man, and more like a commer-
cial traveller than a high cleric) he jumped into a
cab on Auckland Wharf and said briskly : “ Drive
me to the Convent.” The cabby, not recognising
his fare, drove his lordship to the wrong establish-
ment. Tableau !
* •
That taffy-stained infant who flourishes a
golden rattle over the destinies of Spain has been
supplied with a rocking-horse suitable to his rank
and station. The royal gee-gee is not a piebald
animal made of wood, but “ the stuffed skin of a
favourite black pony that belonged to his mother
when she was a girl. She stuffed the skin and
had it expensively mounted.” Rather ! When
the Queen mother, the Lord Chamberlain, and the
royal nurse are all engaged in holding his Gracious
Majesty (aged 30 months) on the back of that
rocking horse it is darned expensively mounted.
Our next paragraph on the King of Spain will
contain some particulars regarding his wheel-
barrow and a few remarks concerning his jewelled
humming-top.
# * *
That depressing air of emptiness about
Melbourne Exhibition, which The Bulletin
noticed long before a score of other journals found
courage to follow in the same strain, is accounted
for by the undue dimensions of the show, rather
than by scarcity of visitors. It suffers from the
common Melbourne —even Australian —fault of
being too pretentious. There isn’t a sufficiently
large supply of attractive exhibits to cover 35 acres
of space, and there isn’t a population to keep such
a building well filled under the best of circum-
stances. Supercilious Britishers may be pardoned
for hinting that the Exhibition is a dumb instance
of Melbourne “blow,” like the banks, town halls,
and soft-goods warehouses of that marvellous city.
They are all too big for actual business purposes,
and they all appear to have been built with a view
to knocking “distinguished visitors” silly, and
impressing the oft-expected Prince of Wales with
a sense of the magnificence of his mamma’s king-
dom across the sea.
* 9
In England, recently, a man who had
murdered his wife and six children was found to
be a lunatic and sent to Broadmoor. He sub-
sequently prayed for his release, on the ground
that it would be a long time before he would be in
a position to commit such an offence again. Neat!
• • c
Somebody has been making a fuss because
a lot of lunatics from one of the Melbourne public
asylums were taken to the tiup by their keepers.
A larger number of lunatics went to Elemingtoti
without any keeper at all.
* * »
A large hotel in the Hawthorn (Melb.)
district was opened the other Saturday evening
with free drinks. Some of the new landlord’s
most industrious customers—who came early and
stayed on until closing-time—sampled every
variety of liquor to be found on the premises, and
then they felt thirsty.
• * 9
A tender moral of maidenly simplicity
named Fannie told her little tale of love to Editor
Winter, of the Melbourne Herald, who labelled
the narrative “A Lady o’Difficulty,” and put it
before a cold, hard world in his third edishun.
The trouble which threatens to reduce Fannie to a
shadow is as follows :
Sir, —I have been constantly meeting, for some time
back, a gentleman to whom I have become greatly
enamoured (Fannie’s grammar is a bit off) and have no
doubt if we oould become acquainted the feeling would be
reciprocated, but, unfortunately, we have no mutual
friend to introduce us. You will see the difficulty lam
plaoed in, as my innate modesty prevents me speaking to
a gentleman to whom I have not been introduced. Will
you kindly suggest a way out of the dilemma.—Yours,
&c., Fannie.
This is the journal to assist females in distress,
Fannie ! Come nearer to us, darliDg, and listen
while we sing
THE “GAIETY” GIRLS.
Gone away are the Gaiety girls,
Wibh their powdered noses and tricked-up curls ;
Gone away are those syrens smart,
Fertile in kisses but barren of heart—
Blowing alternately cold and hot—
Steadfastly sticking to all they got —
Filling a bevy of hot-brained boys
With maddening hopes of untasted joys !
The diamonds glistened, the wine was quaffed,
While the Devil looked on at the game, and
laughed.
Gone away are the Gaiety girls,
With their powdered noses and aureoled curls—
Gone away to a distant clime
(They are having another delightful time),
But some of the boys those syrens bled,
And kissed with lips of chemical red —
Some of them envy the mould’ring dead.
The game was fast and the game was gay,
But now ’bis o’er there’s the Devil to pay.
Little that worries the Gaiety girls—
Courted by marquises, sought by earls ;
Surely the ‘ 1 mashers ” who come to shame.
The moths destroyed by the fatal flame,
Have only themselves, my dear, to blame.
Time flies fast with Tottie and Flo,
The month before last is their long ago ;
And when the story of reckless crime
Shall reach their ears in that distant clime,
Lily and Flo quite a trouble will find
In calling the faces and forms to mind
Of the boys whose necks their arms entwined,
With whom they danced, and drank, and dined,
Who bought them jewels and were so kind,
So fresh, so green, so soft, and so blind—
The boys they “loved,” and left behind.
Then one of the girls will say ‘ ‘ Good God !
I thought my chappy would land in quod.”
Pretty little foolish Fan,
Like a modest violet shrinking—
Faint heart never won young man
In these latter days, we’re thinking ;
If he’s bashful in the street
Help him out of his quandary—
Call him to your side with “ Swe-e-t!”
As you’d call a tame canary.
Pretty little foolish Fan,
If you want to know that feller
Here’s a never-failing plan—
Tap hifti with your “umb er-ella,”
Say, “ Excuse me, there’s a wasp
Round about) your collar buzzin ”
Fall into his arms and gasp
“ Launcelot, my long-lost cousin !”
Pretty little foolish Pan,
Soon as e’er the iee is broken
He will laugh to think he ran
By you when he should have spoken ;
Not of you one bit afraid
Will he be when fairly tackled—
Bashfulness in man or maid
Is but strong affection shackled.
Pretty little foolish Fan,
What’s the good of furtive glances ?
Ever since the world began
Girls have made the first advances.
Adam, full of doubt and fear,
Viewed our first unhappy mother.
Till she slyly whispered “ Dear !”
When he answered “You’re another !”
Pretty little foolish Fan,
Follow out our brief instructions ;
Woo and win him while you can,
Never wait for introductions;
After waiting weeks in vain
Very probably you’d miss him—-
When you meet your chap again
Introduce yourself—and lass him.


Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patbnt Rollbb Floub. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
Whe nialitv Ireicoeotlonally good, end *he_i>r.iot.y,e_ry_l9w
Uniform a specialty; quality, At and comfort. Modi-
man. » Mr Tailor." 164 King-street. Newtown.
Everybody saya—and what everybody eays must be true
—that Pemell'a Snow- whit* Patent Roli.hr Flour is the
best in the market.
[?]
816 Maoquarie-street, North, Sydney, Dec. 12,1888.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
I don’t fancy that the proceedings at St. Andrew's
Cathedral on the day on whioh Miss Jenyns was married,
are by any means calculated to alter Dean Cowper's well-
known opinions concerning the impiety of the stage and
- its surroundings. I went—and saw hardly anything but
a free fight. The only thing whioh would have kept in
order that excited crowd, of Whom five-sixths were
women, would have been a patrol of mounted police.
More than half the people were standing up and craning
their necks all through the service. A very large number
were standing on top of the seats, and I saw several
women, enraged at having their view shut out by those
perched up in front of them, catch the offenders by the
waist or—wasn’t it dreadful!—by the legs, and pull them
down. The bridegroom, a quiet, manly-looking young
fellow, had evidently never been married before, for when
he and his friends arrived he seemed very uncertain
as to where he should go or what he should do. He, it
was very plain, hadn’t been given his cue. As for Mies
Essie Jenyns, ehe, woman-like, was absolutely seif-pos
sessed, though at one juncture she, naturally enough,
did a little “ feint.” When leaving the church
she put her veil hack and bowed and smiled as
though it were all make-believe. As I have already said
I saw hardly anything that was pleasant—ODly got a
glimpse of the beginning and the end of the proceedings.
We got there early, and when we arrived the hilarious-
ness had already commenced. Three old ladie3 who
looked like old maids came into church together, and
knelt down and reverently bowed their heads, and a loud
and vulgar voice behind me said, at the end of a long
giggle : “ Oh, they’re prayin’ for ’usbands, I’m sure! ” and
when proceedings oommenced in earm sh and the crowd
stood up, and those behind surged forward, the people
got so close to one another that there was one wild, uni-
versal cuddle. Hearing a familiar voice, I looked over
my shoulder, and there, sure enough, was Charlie, the
parson’s son, Vith the same sweet smile on his counten-
ance that endears bis father to all Sydney womankind.
Avery stout girl next to him was saying; “Dear me!
wbat shall Ido ? I’m afraid I shall fall down.” Where-
upon Charlie who,, I am sure, had never before seen her
in all his life, remarked, “ Oh, no ! you won’t fall down.
i’ll hold you up ! ’ and then his arm went right round her
waist. He is so polite ? If I were asked which was the
grossest act of sacrilege committed on the oooasion,
I should be inclined to award the prize to the
two fat women who rushed the reading-desk.
The bride wore a “Rosalind” costume of rioh ivory
duchesse satin, with wide trimmings of real duchesse lace
and Oriental brocade to match the satin ; handsome pom-
pons, falling from every point of the lace, were attached
by cords of ivory colour, and were tastefully arranged to
festoon down the front of the dress and across the
train. Across the front of the body a rich plas-
trom was caught up on the right side, terminating
with another pompon. The skirt was handsomely caught
up with roses and orange blossoms from the midst of whioh
a number of_small diamonds sparkled with brilliant effect.
The bridal veil, of white tulle, was of great length ; and
the wreath was designed as a coronet of orange blossoms
and roses sprinkled with diamonds. It’s just as well that
Miss Jenyns wore all these things at a distance if she
hadn’t she wouldn’t have had a rag on her back. After
the dreadful hour-and-a-half which I passed in the
Cathedral I am quits sure that there is only one god
really worshipped by Sydney women—which his name is
Hymen.
A girl-friend of mine, just married, has written me a
obanniDg letter. I cannot resist giviDg you the follow-
ing extraot: —“ We were married on a glorious day in
June, had a delightful drive before returning to partake
of the customary spread, and, in short, felt considerably
happier than ‘ a big sunflower.’ But one unfortunate
circumstance tended to mar all this bliss. The old olerk
at the church happened to be rather deaf, and idiotically’
inquired my age no less than three times before everyone.
Some women would have swallowed the wedding-ring or
done something tragic just to draw attention off the old
fool and his awkward questions. I pride myself on self-
control, so did not wither up the ancient idiot with a fiery
glance from my cerulean optic. Allow me to explain, as
you, dear, may be a blockhead. Cerulean optic means
blue eye. I have two oeruleans, or, correctly speaking,
four, as I dare say from a legal point of view my hus-
band’s eyes belong to me. However, this may be an
‘ optical delusion’ on my part. I shall see about it.
We spent some time with our numerous friends in
the evening, ‘ tripping on the light fantastic toe.’ By
the way, speaking of toes, the first time I saw my hus-
band with his socks off, I found out that he had more
than one fantastic toe, regularly knobby ones, and
you would never for a moment think his big toss
were in the slightest degree related to the other
four. About 2 o’clock in the morning we said
farewell to our friends and departed to take refuge at a
private hotel in Wynyard Square. Owing to the late hour
there was some delay before the door was opened by a
sleepy-looking waiter, who conducted us to our room. A
short time after I was startled by an exclamation from my
husband—" Why, what the deuce ? ’ On looking round I
found that as he was about to retire gracefully to roost he
discovered that our couch was minus bedding or bed-
clothes of any kind, with the exception of a quilt. He
hurriedly arrayed himself in wedding garments agaiD,
saying something softly to himself all the time (perhaps
it was his little evening hymn), and went in search of the
waiter. This individual explained that he had made a
mistake and shown us to the wrong room. Ten minutes
sufficed to gather up hairpins, orange blossoms, boots, &c.
and see us safely established, after performing a new sort
of wedding march up the stairs to our own apartment.
An English sowoiety paper whioh I happened upon the
other day contains a portrait of that well-known literary
woman, Mrs. Campbell Praed (who once upon a time wa
Miss Murray Prior, of Queensland), and accompanies the
picture with the remark that “ Miss Praed is of Aus-
tralian extraction, and has become so thoroughly Eng
lish that many people do not know that she spent a great
portion of her early career in the colony.” This is per-
fectly beautiful, considering that, so far as men are con-
cerned, some of the Australians who pick up their Gaiety-
bar drawl and “ Piccadilly manner ” at Potts Point and
Toorak are far more English than the English themselves;
and it is just the same with the women. I know a young
man in Sydney—he is the son of a lawyer, by the way—
whose hee-haw and haw-haw and eye-glass and drawl are
more outrageously English than anything one ever meets
except on the New York stage, and yet that young man
haß never been in England. Where did he pick up the
hee-haw ! He was not so lucky as to possess it in his
sohool days, for had he exhibited it at that period of his
existence it would speedily have been thrashed out of him
by the master, who was one of the old style. We
have quite an English coloDy in each Australian oity now-
a-days, and almost everybody who is associated with it
gets the hee-haw more or less badly.
The marriage of Miss Leila Smith to Mr. Stuart Cotton
was performed at Christchurch (Sydney) on Wednesday,
28th ult., by Rev. Canon Kemmis and two reverend
assistants. The church was beautifully decorated, and
the bride looked charming robed in a gown of white faille
trimmed with duchesse lace, over whioh was thrown a
long tulle veil, kept in its place by a diamond orescent.
She was attended by four bridesmaids, her sisters, who
wore pretty frooks of white pongee silk, with watered
‘MORE LIGHT.”
YOUNG AUSTRALIAN: “ MA, IS JERUSALEM OUT IN THE BACK BLOCKS?”
FOND MOTHER: “NO, JOHNNIE, WHY DO YOU ASK?”
YOUNG AUSTRALIAN: “’CAUSE PASTOR JEFFERIS WAS PREACHIN’ A LOT
THIS MORNING ABOUT JERUSALEM AND THE TWELVE OPOSSUMS
THAT WERE THERE.”
sashes; the hats were of gold tinsel covered with fine
spotted net, trimmed with ribbon to match the sashes.
The groomsmen were Mr. Sweetland (best man), Mr.
Harper, Mr. W. Nathan, and Mr. Cecil Shepherd Smith.
After the ceremony, the bridal party drove to Avona,
Glebe Point, where there were assembled numerous
guests. The breakfast was served on the verandah, which
had been most tastefully decorated by Messrs. Pearce.
The happy bride was the recipient of many handsome
presents.
In at least 20 different high-toned houses round Sydney
may be seen the very identical hat which Nellie Farren
threw to the assembled throng on the wharf, on the
memorable afternoon that the Gaiety crowd left for
’Frisco by the Alameda. In about 60 other houses of
lesser note may he seen, also carefully preserved and
treasured, fragments of this same hat, Who really
possesses the genuine hat, or portions of it, is a mystery
as inexplicable as that which surrounds the burial-place of
Moses.
A fashionable family of Sydney is in sore trouble
through these unhappy circumstances: The daughter of
the house has developed an infatuation for the doorkeeper
of one of the local skating rinks, and though— perhaps it
would be better to say because— every effort has been
made to dissuade her from the engagement, she stead-
fastly refuses to forget the young man. Reoently the
girl’s lover was requested to come to the home of the lady
as her father wished to interview him., On making his
appearance he was confronted by half-a-dozen well-known
matrons who prayed him to abandon his attentions to
their friend—mainly on the ground of the Eocial bar be-
tween them, lie, however, protested that he was quite
as good as anyone in the land and would marry just as he
and the girl pleased.
t I hear that Sir Charles B. H. Mitchell, K.C.M G., once
of Fiji and now Governor of the Leeward Islands, is en-
gaged to Miss Weldon, second daughter of the Rev.
Canon Weldon, D C.L., formerly Head Master of Tun-
bridge School. Miss Weldon is a cousin of the Head
Master of Harrow. I once had the pleasure of being a
fellow-passenger of Sir Charles Mitohell on a long sea-
voyage ; he was on board universally considered to be
the most thoughtful and good-hearted man who ever
talked as if he had two large hot potatoes in his mouth.
Sir Charles is a widower, and was unsuccessfully angled
for by many a colonial girl.
The prurient purists of the North are exercising their
morbid minds as to why the Hon. Algernon De Point
has not presented a petition for a divorce from his
erring spouse, on account of her notorious liaison with a
certain very gallant personage. The fact is, the Hon.
Algernon, though most oircumspect in his behaviour of
recent years, cannot publicly assume the role of the in-
jured and immaculate husband with any degree of dig-
nity. In early life he went through the form of marriage
with a bewitching little barmaid, of whose death there is
no direofc proof, though she has not been heard of for the
last five years, and the Hon.- Algernon prefers to allow his
“second ” to follow the dictates of her own sweet will un-
molested, rather than court a prosecution for bigamy.
I observe that in England the men “ are threatened
with an innovation in their cherished evening dress, of
which it is said that the trousers are to have the seams
embroidered in an elegant design in finest silk, and that
in this wav the social position of the wearer can he easily
determined, as only rioh men can afford this expensive
adornment.” As many English second-hand-olothesmen
are advertising for dress-suits, whioh “will positively be
sent to the -colonies,” we may next winter expect to see
someof our beaux pirouetting round in pantaloons with em-
broidered seams—that is, dear, if this paragraph doesn’t
paralyse the trade.
“ Ivurrajong ’’ writes, me from Hobart:—“At a
flower show recently held here, the judges were chosen
entirely from the elite of the city (including two lady
oooupants of Government House), assisted by Captain
Hammill, of the Orlando, consequently no one was sur
prised when Miss Mary and Master Gavin Hamilton, the
Governor's children, gained the prizes for bouquets ar-
ranged by children under 12 years of age. The bandsmen
from the Orlando rendered musioal selections durmg the
progress of the show, and were afterwards allowed to
depart withoub the slightest refreshment being offered to
them. Next day a cheque was forwarded to the hand-
master for such a handsome amount that, when divided,
each man would be entitled to half-a-orown. Just the
liberality one would expect from a society that considers
social position sufficient qualification for judging exhibits
whose good or bad points can only be determined by ex-
perienced florists.”
Advertisement from the S. M. Herald
SUPERIOR Lady Model required by artist. Five
guineas, ten sittings. State size. Sunflower,
G.P.O.
I am told that the Orlando officers were well to the front
at Hobart and assisted the P.S. to introduce the very lates
thing in pants, which, “as now worn,” are very baggy and
turned up a couple of inches at the bottom. Of course it
is toney and therefore correct, but it does so look like “ a
misfit, sir, which we can do you at half-price.”
Have you noticed this advertisement in a Sydney even-
ing paper:—
/ < EORGE , late ironmonger, as you had too
many irons in the fire to answer my advertise-
ment, I have married again. Mrs. F. , 7
st., Glebe.
“ How very womanly!” many men will, no doubt, exclaim.
But I have had oooasion to notice that young men whose
noses have been “ put out of joint ” by girls also seem to
take pleasure in parading their marriage-announcements
just to show with what unconcern they have learned to
regard their rejection by the idol of their first choice.
Here, from the London Daily Telegraph, is a solemn
and soul-stirring wrinkle for Potts-Pointers about to visit
the Smoke: —
T)ENSION in the family of a lady of rank, near Addi-
A son-road station. Large reception-rooms, read-
ing-room for gentlemen. Terms, two guineas—Hon.
Mrs. H., care of,” &0., &c.
There be fastnesses ! Only one guinea for the weekly
hash and cowheel, and one guinea for the rank! Hon.
Mrs. H. ! Can it, can it he that Henniker—-but, no, he
spells his name with ha “ E.”
At a skating carnival at Hobart, the other day, when
the crowd of onlookers was at its thickest, a young lady,
most stylishly dressed, had her hat knocked eff, and with
it—to the intense surprise of her neighbours—her wig;
leaving the top of her head as bald as that of the most
elderly habitu& of the stalls when a ballet is on. A lady
who accompanied her proved a real friend in need, for she
instantly took off her own hat and with it covered
•her friend's baldness. When the lost head-gear was re-
covered the ladies hastily departed without waiting to see
the entertainment—at which I’m not at all surprised.
The most fashionable English papers have a clever way
of distinguishing between the pure merinos of British
social life and the cross-breeds. They speak of “ society,”
which your Sappho tikes to mean the crcme-de la-creme,
and of “society in general," which, if I am not much
mistaken, is their method of alluding to the skim-de-la-
skim.
The pre-eminent characteristic of the feminine figure
last season was “bustle;” this year it’s “bust.” The
material is the same, it is only the venue that’s changed.
I read that the Duke of Norfolk’s sister, Lady Philippa
Howard, has just married a young physioian, Dr. Edward
Stewart. Pasteur, the French savant, was best man.
It is to be hoped that the Bashi-Bazouk atrocity of a
turkey-hunt will not be admitted as an attraction at any
of the Sydney skating-rinks. The amusement is, I am
told, popular at Auokland, N.Z., where they are so tender
as to object to pigeon-matches.
Even the drought has failed to wilt the jocosity
of the dwellers of the torrid West, for a Narandera
correspondent writes telling me of a highly successful
fancy ball held then on 29th ult., in connection with the
conclusion of Miss Smith's (no relation of mine or the
Baron’s) dancing class. But just close j our eyes a second
and imagine a fancy ball at Narandera in summer!
For once man has held his own. During September
there were 1376 infants born in the city of Melbourne.
The number of each sex was exactly equal—namely, OSS.
The very latest about Mrs. Malaprop, of the Point. Her
son Adolphus keep 3 two pet hares. One evening lately
there was a party at. tiie Malaprop mansion, and when all
the young men and girls were in the drawing-room Mrs.
M. burst in upon them. “Oh!” she said, effusively, “I
’ad nearly forgotten somethink. Come on, all of you, and
I’ll show you Adolphus’ barem 1”
Yours affectionately,
SA[?]O SMITH.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this oolumn will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss SAmio Smith, Bullßtin Office.]
“The Ii.M.S. Orient, now en route to
Australia from London, is bringing out a party of
single girls, dispatched by the Church Immigra-
tion Society.”—Fide Daily Paper.
Chorus of Mashers :
“ We’ll be there, yes, we’ll be there
To meet those creatures young and fair.
Oh, how they’ll blush with dimpled smile
To see our gay resistless style !
And they will laugh with us to go,
We are such mashers, doncherknow.
A sweet brunette I’ll choose for mine
With raven curls, and eye3 divine ;
A fairy blonde shall be my prize
With dimpled cheeks and sweet blue eyes.
Yes, they will laugh with us to go,
We are the mashers, doncherknow.”
Chorus of Maidens :
We are bound for the land of gold
With its wond’rous charms and wealth untold.
Oh, how my heart longs to be there
To view those scenes so bright and fair •
And, best of all, perhaps there’ll be
A noble youth awaiting me,
With silver spurs and sunbrowned face,
With honest heart and manly grace,
A true Australian brave and free,
To love us as we long to be.
“ He’ll be there, yes, he’ll be there
To meet us in that clime so fair,
The true Australian brave and free
To love us as we long to be—
No masher dude with perfect style,
With monster cane, and sickly smile,
Shall win our love, for we detest
The way those silly fools are dressed.
A noble boy with sunbrowned face,
With honest heart and manly grace,
Shall take us to his wild-wood home,
There as free as birds to roam.”
Chorus of Sailors :
“ They’ll be there, yes, they’ll be there,
The gay old sparks with partings bare,
And sickly dudes, too bold by far.
And “ Arry ” with his big cigar ;
Thy brave Australian won’t be there,
Dear hearts, he has no time to spare.
In vain you’ll braid your glossy curls,
He loves his own dear native girls.”
■F. Chandos.
EsBie’s wedding faint was a splendid his-
trionic effort.
The Earl of Seafield has just died at
Oamaru (N.Z.), of which one-horse village he had
in the course of a strange and varied career been
bum-bailiff.
It is confidently asserted that every ninth
person who enters the Melbourne Centennial Ex-
hibition does so on a free pass. And every tenth
man simply nods and files in as he sounds the
magic word commissionah.”
Speaking of the pertinacity of Customs
officials on the continent, a Melbourne paper ad
vises all young ladies who intend visiting
Yurrup to leave their bustles behind. We also
think it advisable to leave them behind.
<< on ie gubernatorial debate,
Sir Dan O’Connor, bedad, observed • “ The
Govurnurs here spind twoice as much as their
salary ; the prisint Guvurnur prc-iminintlv ”
There is no middle political coorse for the Jaynil
One ; he must ayther pre-eminently grovel or nrr-
lmmmtly busht.
When a Chinese Emperor is to be
married the bride-elect does, not go round to her
girl friends, fling her arms round their necks and
invite them to act as bridesmaids. No, the Chow
Government take the matter in hand They
advertise for 250 girls under the age of 15, exact
height, and other qualifications reouired
being specified. After careful selection they are
put under the charge of the Major Domo of the
palace to be drilled in their duties— and then his
Majesty marries the lot, after a, fashion.
It was a gay young city dude who read these lines
one night,
.He straightway sucked his summer cane, and
chuckled with delight,
He lit a dainty cigarette, and watched the smoke
ascend,
And thus in accents masheresque, he spoke unto
his friend : —
“Oh, Ewedie dea, just bwing youa cha, and look
at this, dea boy,
’Twill make you curl your silk moustache, and
gasp for vewey joy ;
We’ll go and watch them come ashore, done up—
um—aw—to kill,
We’ll captuaw all the prettiest ones, we will, bv
Jawve, we will.”


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, ft 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Sth. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
yth. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
■
mmmm
mamma
:
iiSiSi
SEALS PATENS NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
£3
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
r
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer ajid Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely SUS-
PENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post
BEAKS AND COMPANY,
435, 454, AKn «®oaos» Hvnaws, Stonm*.
OHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.
M ELACHRINO f
M elachrino i
This world-renowned Egyptian Cigabktte is
made from the finest Yenidge Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Largest Sale in the
World !
M. MELACHRINO & CO., Cairo,
And 21 Cockspgr Street, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes of the
British Army and Navy.
_____
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Arc Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
leading Tobacconists in Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily, fresh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.30,
Tremendous Success of
SIGNORA MAJERONI
in
THE GREAT HISTORICAL PLAY,
MARIE ANTOINETTE.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OP
MAGGIE MOORE, and J. C. WILLIAMSON
in their Famous Drama
STRUCK OIL
and the
CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
JgONDI AQUARIUM.
The mosii popular plonlo and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
dally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
—™ *
Open dally from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE,
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
Favourite Comedian
Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.”
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.”
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Offioe open daily at Nicholson’s Musio
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
-'VTEW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL,
J3I Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY,
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
COMEDIANS, SINGERS, ACTORS, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Everything New, Original, and Refined.
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission —Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John C. Leete.
OPERA HOUSE.
i.l Lessees & Managers, Hisoocks & Friedman
TO-NIGHT TO-NIGHT,
And Every Evening
THE WORLD’S GREAT WODERS,
HISCOCK’S and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
Augmented by New Stars.
Popular Prices : Dress Circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 25.;
PIT-ONE SHILLING.
THE ITALIAN BEE 00.,
Pabbamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Oomb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wlnea from
Hookinir". 410 d«orcr« Rtrent. no»r KJncr R
There are some Bbrange anomalies in the
handicapping of our thoroughbred cracks. Thus,
while Mentor is treated as the best horse in
Australia on his Flemington form, we find Carlyon
weighted on his last year’s performances, quite
irrespective of recent failures. In Tattersall’s
Club Cup Mr. White’s horse receives only five
pounds from the Peer and nine pounds from
Mentor, which is manifestly absurd.
8. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AMD
MANUFACTURERS.
Satho’i Bakin* Povitn, Orient Sotut Shi.
EGG A CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXT RAO T OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS
SALAD ft OASSOR OILS.
Orlant Washing Powdsr.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PEESIAV SEEESET.
A 9.. As.
STEAM WORKS;
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY
Baseball.
BASEBALL
BASEBALL
ASSOCIATION CRICKET GROUND.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the
Governor of N.S.W.,
BARON CARINGTON, P.C , G.C.M.G.
SATURDAY, December 15 ; MONDAY,
December 17; TUESDAY, December 18.
THE AMERICAN NATIONAL GAME,
illustrated by 24 of tbe Principal Players of the
U.S , who will arrive per s.s. Alameda.
CHICAGO v. ALL AMERICA.
No better exemplification, of the attractive
features of BASS BALL can be shown on any
ground in the world.
It is believed that intense interest will be taken
in the SUPERB FIELDING. SPLENDID
BATTING, RAPID BASE RUNNING and
CURVE PITCHING shown by these Selected
Examplars of this the Most Popular Field Game
in America.
Game called at THREE O’CLOCK. Time of
Game, TWO HOURS.
w
ORLD’S CIRCUS ! WORLD’S CIRCUS !
The Sydney Elite Skating Rink
transformed into
ONE VAST AMPHITHEATRE !
The only Cirque illuminated by the Electric Light
in the World,
40
f From America,
Europe,
Pprfnrmppq India, Japan,
South America,
and
Australia.
40
i
40
40
Performers
40
40
TRAINED HORSES
Including
THE WONDERFUL BRONEOS,
Direct from California.
PERFORMING PONIES and
EDUCATED GOATS.
This Gigantic Entertainment eclipses all previous
efforts of Equestrian Proprietors in
the Southern Hemisphere.
One of the GREATEST SHOWS in the World.
For names of Performers and full particulars
see Saturday’s daily papers.
ALFRED F. BARTLETT,
Treasurer and Business Manager.
TtrST" PUBLISHED
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Aethub Gayll.
MT PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED 'Ut
BY
The Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil- la|.
Price • ONE SHILLING.
Per Poet, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
N
ORTH SHORE LANE
ZETOIR SALE.
A. HARNETT, June., & 00.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
£2O
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break; lamps, cushions, arid
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Backboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
JI'B AN k LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufaotobt :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
m
V' i i
vmff
171 ASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
-14 rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbinq and O’Connell Stbebts.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. - The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbino STBBHTa.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Ctjfboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON"& LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbing Stbeets.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment.
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
■
CANVAS FOLDING
OOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and tip to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d. }
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
136 feet of hanging spaoe
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Frloe Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPBING AND O’CONNBLt StBBBTB.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustlo
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. eaoh. Nbwton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Loungbs.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Nbwton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets. __
BEDSTEADS, all Bizeß, at Lowest Prices,
Nbwton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell -
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Nbwton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, be*
make, also Spiral Spring, from Me. sat®.
NEWTON and LAME.
.


—.
“My Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown. Don’t forget
him. Snits to measure for £3 80
“ If you are a man of business, weakened by the strain
Of your duties, avoid stimulants and take Dr Soule’s
American Hop Bitters. ”
IHE BEST XMAS PUBLICATIONS!
“ Socialities, 1888.”
Centennial Number.
ONE SHILLING ; post, Is. 3d.
A charming Illustrated Work by the First Comic
Artists. 150 capital Woodcuts, numerous columns
of Humorous Letterpress ; also,
"MELBOURNE PUNCH" ALMANAC,
Centennial Number.
SIXPENCE $ post, Sevenpence.
No breakfast table is complete without a copy of
this justly popular work. Laugh and grow fat!
You cannot enjoy life if your digestive organs are
out of order. Punch’s Almanac promotes good
digestion. It laughs away all the ills that flesh is
heir to. Illustrated throughout its numerous pages.
«r All Booksellers and ALEX. 91‘KINLEY «ft CO.,
51 Hunter Street. SYDNEY.
CUT THIS OUT.
It may not appeak acjain.
In order to interest all in the study of the English
language, and as a slight token of appreciation, the
American Hop Bitters Co. has for the large sales in
Australasia of Or. Houle’s American Hop
Kilters, the Company offers One Thousand Dollars
in Prizes, to be given away in <*ol<l at the close of
the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition.
Ist PICI/E Mix lln ml red and Tilly Hol-
lars. —To any person sending the American Hop
Bitters’ Company the greatest number of words made
from the following letters, viz.:—A, B, C, E, H, I,
M, N, 0, P, Tt, S, T.
2lid PKIZE-Tivo Hundred and Tilly
Dollars. —To any person sending the American Hop
Bitters Company the greatest number of words made
from the following letters, viz.:—A, B, C, I, L, M,
N, 0, P, T, Y.
3rd PKIKE-One Hundred Dollrrs. -To
any person sending the American Hop Bitters Com-
pany the greatest number of words made from the
following letters, viz.A, 0, Q-, I, N, 0, S, T, U, Y.
CONDITIONS.
1. All persons competing for these Prizes must re-
side in the Australasian Colonies.
2. All words must be plainly writtej), and be found
in Webster’s or any Standard Dictionary, Words in-
correctly spelt will be deducted from the total.
3. Any person can compete for all or either of the
Prizes, but the Prize contested for must be specially
named.
4. For the First Prize each word must consist of
not less than four letters, and be made out of the fol-
lowing letters, viz.:—A, B, C, E, H, I, M. N, 0, P, R,
S, T, (American Hop Bitters). The Second Prize
must be of words of not less than three letters, and
must be taken from the following, viz. A, B, C, I, L,
M, N, 0, P, T, Y (Incompatability). For the Third
Prize words used must be made from the following
letters, viz.A,. C, G, I, N, 0, S, T, U, Y (Consan-
guinity). Any letter in each list may be used twice in
the same word or oftener, but letters in one list must
not be used in making words for another list, unless
such letter appears in the list of letters for which the
word is made.
5. All lists of words must be forwarded to the
American Hop Kilters Company before the
close of the Exhibition.
6. The award of prizes will be made by a committee
of leading representatives from the colonies of Vic-
toria, New South Wales, South Australia, Queensland,
New Zealand, Tasmania, and Western Australia, after
the close of the Exhibition,
7. Persons enclosing a 2d. stamp will receive due
acknowledgment of their list.
8. In case two or more competitors for any prize
make the same number of correct words, the prize will
be given to the one whose list is first received.
9. All lists will be filed on dftgr they are received,and
the committee will make awards at close of Exhibition.
10. Each competitor must sign full name, residence,
and postal address, at the end of each list, plainly
written.
11. Address all letters to the American Hop
Kilters Company 201 and 203 Spring Street,
Melbourne.
BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the be it Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the Btable it is valuable t)r broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s '• Parrot ” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only ead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
*ll chemists. Bosisto’s " Parrot rand.
Mesmeric, magnetic, and electric
INSTITUTE, 177 Liverpool street (facing
Hyde Park), Sydney, under the sole management
of Dr. St. VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
Clairvoyant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
America, and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
American Remedy Company. All Diseases
Cured, chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
Treatment peculiarly known to Dr. St. Vincent
only, his motto being “ Nature cures Nature’s
decay.” Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
positively cured, without cutting, in from three to
four days. Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
self in being the only person known in the world
who will undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Tongue without Surgical Operations of any kind;
in fact, the Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
incidental to suffering humanity, even when all
other treatment and advice has proved a failure.
Candid, the Doctor will undertake no case where
he cannot guarantee a complete cure. N.B.—
Where medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
penses his own. This is a surety that you get
nothing but the genuine article. A Fact.— This
is the only Institution of its kind in the World
where all Kinds of Cures are Effected with little
or no medicine.
Please Copy the Address —
DR. ST. VINCENT,
177 Liverpool Street (facing Hyde Park), Sydney.
RITTENBERG & CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wtnyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
HHp'.t?
Mn
“ They fit perfectly, and are
far superior to all the other
j Corsets I have tried."
I (Signed) Mane Rote.
*=■ y&n
PATENT
Siagonal Seam Corset
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in tire Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfeot
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless Imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” In oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all
and Ladles' Outfitters
EPP S ’ S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Western Australia is the Coming Colon?,
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
“ Ihe very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those plaoee,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will be the beginning of a new
e J a> ” Extraot from Governor Broome’s speeoh at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position,
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO EACH LOT. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Land. Torrens’ Title
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time Mce the pres ent. Write for plans to THE
INTERe OLO N lAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W, J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
THE
Sydney and Provincial Laid and Building Co„
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £57,400,
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £39,087.
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK. — Withdraw without notice.
Interest, 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. 6d. a week.
How to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The Best in the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Julius dildscUit l Ct,
231 CLARENCE STREET
DOWS
D-EMBRO CATION
\f \SOLD
% EV ERVWH-ERE-*
Glasgow.
given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbani-
Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENB’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in>
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HA'IR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
0 few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank)
MELBOURNE.
Mrs. Kendall, Senior.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir,— It seems to me to be a
national disgrace that the aged mother of our
Australian-born and most characteristically Aus-
tralian poet should be neglected as she i-t. It can
only be due to the entire ignorance of the people
as to her condition. She is now nearly 80 years
of age, feeble, in ill-health, and poorly lodged.
She has seen the colony rise on its springtide of
progress, but the wave which has carried so many
of the men of her generation to opulence has left
her in a backwater of forgetfulness and poverty.
Kendall was always devoted to her, and it was to
her se’f-denial and hard work that he owed the
education he had and the opportunities which he
found for the development of his genius. It will
be a matter of humiliation for New South Wales
if it is said after her death that we allowed the
last years of her life to be dragged out in absolute
poverty and comfortlessness. If you will give
your assistance and act as Treasurer it is impos-
sible to doubt that there are charitable people
enough in Australia to provide the small sum
needed. Even if it is only possible to find 20
persons willing to give one shilling each per week
it will suffice to provide for her trifling needs and
make her last years less cheerless and deserted.—
Yours truly, .T.H.S. [The Bulletin will gladly
give a subscription, and will see to the proper ex-
penditure of any money forwarded by its readers.
—Ed. B.]
Sweetness and Light.
Wherever a woman’s fairy footsteps fall some
flower of beauty springs in her path—especially
when she elects to stand on the back of a pew or
the edge of a pulpit, scratching off the varnish and
breaking down the carvings. An atmosphere of
refinement envelopes her and makes itself mani-
fest wherever she goes—particularly when she
takes it into her head to swing on a gas-bracket
until it snaps and fills a church with the escaping
vapour. Her gentle consideration for the feelings
of others and her constant sacrifice of herself to
their interests and their convenience form the
sublimest spectacle earth can offer for the contem-
plation of aDgels—a sight seen to absolute per-
fection at the wedding of Miss Essie Jenyns with
Mr. J. R Wood, when the women present rushed
the communion rails, mobbed the bride until she
fainted and only recovered after the lapse of ten
minutes, broke the forms, the stone basement of
the pulpit, the woodwork of the Governor’s
pew, tore the carpet and the curtains of the
choir, trampled on the American organ, and
finished by tearing down and carrying away
the whole of the flowers with which the church
was profusely decorated. These female Yahoos
were not the larrikin Pollies and Suheyk of the
factory and the kitchen. No, they would be gener-
ously offended were it insinuated that they were
not the pride and ornament of fashionable Sydney,
and they will each and all lament that the “ mob
behaved so badly at the wedding of dear Essie
Jenyns,” and will by-and-bye show the stolen
flowers as graceful memorials of the event, forget
ful of the fact that every woman who can show
such a flower in the future will by doing so, con-
fess herself a prig and a sacrilegious brawler.
* * *
It js impossible to acquit the managers of the
marriage of all sha ,e in the rv;fous proceedings by
which Sydney w.;e disgraced and the Cathedral
damaged. Then a / omauly selfishness and violence
of the fashionable women of Sydney were quite
patent to the expac enced persons who controlled
the arrangements c; tno affair. They know as
we all know that tae rr.*: of coarse, vulgar, over-
dressed, money-scented creatures who make a
matinee performance a close approach to pande-
monium and turn an alfresco Government House
party into a bear garden, would ba certain to
crowd and crush, and j >stle and clamonr at the
wedding of a bride so charming and popular as
Essie Jenyns. Therefore they should either
Lava kept the preparations for the ceremony
secret or have taken proper precautions to repress
•-iis6rd c r. If they desired that the public’s favourite
sl oid : publicly say farewell by taking her marriage
v-jws before a crowd they should have hired
the Exhibition Building, and sold tickets
at half-n-guinea each with reserved rea*s at a
guinea. They could then have handed the fair
bride a couple of thousand pounds as a wedding-
present. If they desired privacy they should
have held their tongues about the wedding until
it was over. As it was the bride had all the in-
convenience of publicity without any of its profit,
and all the cost of privacy without any of its
comfort, while a new and provoking opportunity
has been given to those holy ones who sneer at
and denounce the stage as the portal of evil and
the apotheosis of personal vanity and ostentatious
display.
The Sydney News on compensation to publicans:—
Total abstainers may talk a nd preach as much as they
like, they may cry down the publicans, they may abuse
the liquor, they may make as many converts as they can,
they are at liberty to do all this ; but it is a moot question
whether if they were asksd (the minority) to put their
hands in their pookets ard pay the duty that is paid
every year on the drink consumed they would not pull a
long face and say “No ’ Of course, they are fully en-
titled to the benefit ef the doubt. It may be they would
cheerfully make up the necessary amount. If so, it
would be a Chri-tian act. Only stretch the imaginat on
to view the phalanx of Cnristian martyrs marching down
Macquarie-street to the Treasury to plank down their pro-
portion of the duties which would be due had the liquors
been sold. Not content with this, they must render unto
C.usar the things which are Cassars ; they wiii pay the
distillers, the brewers, and the cordial mannfo borers the
amount of profit they would haverta ised :r the sale of
their goods; they will even go a step bey ona s. The com-
pensation morally due to any p mson cUpr.yt d of his living
is to be honourably discharged Distillers, brewers, pub-
licans, wine-merchants, ana a hcstJ of others, inclusive of
barmen and ba>maids, clerks, carmen, the railwajs,
steamboats, sailing-ships, the printers of labels for bottles,
the bottle merchant aDd merchant and maker, the cooper,
the packing-case maker, must be looked after so that in
the event of all these people being deprived of their
means of living, or any portion cf such means, they
should not have oause to regret the happy day when this
Christian hand of magtyrs faced the consequences of their
public opinions. (Vtainly, these great-hearted men
would take care that i ny loss which mirht accrue in re-
spect to the depreciati. n in the value of the properties
oocupied by people who have followed avocations inimical
to the tenets of the nob'e martyrs would be paid. To foot
up this little bill, say til ihe matter* enumerated are
worth ten years’ purcbe ; he whole indebtedness of the
colony would not cover tbs sum that would have to be
forthcoming.
There is something s.i :t and convincing about
this reasoning which makes us regret that the
great principle of c -m ; r sat ion was not sooner
recognised. F r n tar s past a vast number
of men emploje. branches of industry have
been from time to t me deprived of their means of
sustenance, and so far not a cent has been paid
them in recompence. The amount which is due
to the aboriginal race on account of the deprecia-
tion of the ’possum industry alone must be some-
thing tremendous. Then there were men who
had a profitable connection in the way of
flogging convicts, and their business was de-
stroyed at one fell swoop without the slightest
attempt on the part of the Government to square
up the loss, and even within the last few months
the goodwill of more than one old-established
fan tan house has been utterly destroyed by
officious interference on the part of the authori-
ties, a,nd instead of setbling up with the unhappy
proprietor he has been hauled away to gaol. The
fan-tan business, of course, is illegal, but then
nobody thought of compensating the proprietary
Chow when it was first made illegal ; he was sim-
ply ordered to close up his premises and let his
invested capital slide. The man who runs sweeps
was treated in a still more brutal fashion; hundreds
of other cases equally important require considera-
tion, and altogether the compensation problem is a
large and imposing difficulty, and if it is to be
worked on any consistent principle there isn’t
enough money in these parts even to begin to pay
the bill.
The Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) Times man
says the barometer in his office was “ a century
in the shade last Friday. “ Bar ”is good.
The prospects of one of the biggest of
Australian gold-mines are by no means roseate.
There are ominous rumours of a general peter-out.
In the time of Tiberias the publicans made
other fellows pay the taxes ; the modern publican,
if we are to believe Jack Conway’s paper, pays all
the taxes.
The Rev. Ratz, pastor of a Gippsland
(Vic.) Wesleyan flock, is agitating for a rise in
his wages, because the wind blows through his
raiment and he can’t pay the milkman. Poor as
church Ratz.
The real issue of the Times Commission Is
the divorce of England and Ireland, and
Sir James Hannen, the English Windeyer
(we speak matrimonially) is appropriately the
Chief Commissioner.
The company was inerudite. “Gentle-
men,” said the chairman, “I give you the toast of
absent friends, coupled with the name of Bindley
Murray.” No one “caught on,” but relying on
the intelligence of our readers, we pub it in.
Professor E. J. Thorold Rogers is coming
to Australia —no, not as Governor, but as lecturer.
Would that colonial governors were chosen from
the ranks of such men as Professor Rogers—then
we could welcome one regally, with open arms.
The Sydney Opposition evening journal Is
much hurt because copies of the four Freetrade
dailies were placed under the foundation-stone of
the Lang memorial, while it was excluded from the
“honour.” Dear brother, do you not see that
those other papers were buried merely because
they were dead ?
Premier Parkes says that he “has lived
for years with Death staring him in the face.”
We are sorry for Death. Considering all the
ghastly political iniquities of which the old man
has been guilty during that period the
statement above-quoted forms the very strongest
argument we have ever heard against the efficacy
of capital punishment.
The people of Dunedin (N.Z.) have given
up military display and shut down violently on
the pomp and circumstance of the gory battle-
field. A few months since they were consumed
by martial frenzy, but they have passed on all
that and declare unanimously that peace—dove-
eyed peace—is the thing they are yearning after.
The reason of this change lies in certain military
manoeuvres which took place on a damp Saturday
not very long ago. There was to be a sham fight
on this occasion, and Dunedin was to be defended
by a large body of volunteers, while another
piratical gang moved in from Green Island with a
view to razing the city to the ground and sowing
tbe Bank of N Z with salt. There were only
three ways by which the attacking party could
advance, so the defenders divided their forces;
one armed host stood in battle array a little beyond
Caversham in order to cover the main road and at
the same time to kept an eye on the bye-way
round past the orphan asylum lest the hordes of
the enemy should enter the town by way of the
Mornington cable tram-line and down past Wat-
son’s Hotel ; while the other band of warriors
occupied the high ground beside St. Clair,
and were prepared to crush any invader
who chanced to pour along the sea-shore
and menace Dunedin by the track of the
horse-tram which runs into St. Kilda. Both
armies were thirsting for battle and the troops
go t wfet and hoarse and bloodthirsty as they waited
for the foe to turn up. But the foe didn't come
The afterucon passed and night came on, and two
disgusted military bodies at length fell in in sullen
silence and marched back to town But when
they got there they broke the bonds of discipline
and rose in frantic insurrection, for the troops
from Green Island had arrived over paddocks and
through back-yards and other bye-wayp, and were
peacefully camped in front of the Colonial Bank
with a sarcastic smile spread all over their fea-
tures This downfall has conclusively demon-
strated that the Dunedin volunteers can’t find the
Green Island volunteers by daylight on a wet
Satuiday. and people naturally want to know how
they can be expected under such circumstances to
find a Russian invader, if the wily Muscovite
approaches by three different ways at midnight,
say on a Tuesday. The prospect looks so bad that
the city has resolved in future to surrender with-
out resistance, and the next foreign assailant will
be received with an address from the Mayor and
Corporation, and will be supplied with bedrooms
at the Grand Hotel, and be requested to leave his
boots outside the door so that they can be cleaned
for him in the morning.
Ballarat (Vic.) no longer enjoys immunity
from rats. A number of local miners struck for
higher wages a week or two back, and the Sulie-
man Pasha mine is being worked by rats.
We have received from Messrs. Edwards,
Dunlop and do , of Sydney, a packet of immature
books specially designed for presentation at
Christmas and New Year to ladies and to chil-
dren. These publications, which seem destined to
quite supplant in popular favour the too often
meaningless Christmas card, are so delicate,
charming, and artistic that to be appreciated
they must be seen.
Drs. Tarrant and Flatau, of Sydney, have
bought a huge bismuth-lode 125 miles from Bowen
(Q ), which, at 25ft. from the surface, is 4ft. Gin.
wide. The lode assays nearly 52 per cent., prin-
cipally carbonates, the most valuable and easily
treated ore of bismuth. The value of the metal
in the English market is about £BOO a ton, and it
is stated that at this wonderful mine there are
fully 1000 tons already in view. The lucky
owners are dealing in the matter with the British
Bismuth-Syndicate, which virtually controls the
nharket.


Business Announcements.
fcsr THE ONLY
Direct Supply tainties!
656 Seorgo Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers, will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
m
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 35s
» » i) ~ steel notes ... 60s,
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
o
The finest show of ACCORDEONS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. 6d.
Patent Steel „ ~ ... 355. Od.
m
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extba set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £? 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
MM Till STUB,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6 M., and Is. each..
Silver and Copper St’ H , Is., and Is. 3d. each
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Suita;, Sells, Viola Usable Ease, Ban,
Zithar, k, k f
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
g/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
6,6 or 7 ii ii ii 40/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSENp Manager,
888 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Pbarls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
Old Pori, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Roaslllon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, So. Unequalled High-class Wlnee are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street,*
E.C.ELEY
\m
&
&
<8
$
G=
sSS
<3
<d
A
■&
<b
*
4
&
0
D
£?
V
&
9
£
,v
O
o
v
o
<</
r
&
r :
*
-
>f'
&
rs
o
:
s-
f\
r.
<b
O
Ss
v
s
r\
?S
V
0
x>
*
O
390 a GEORGE S T
STT33KTESY.
William's Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple In application—sure In efleot. This Is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insectioide has no equal—as the fumeß of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co *
*
•u
Jv
ei
O
11
IT
S
T
O
u
jT|Ti
/\GENTS,
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
' 30 Barrack Street.
EGA AND BASODJUIBN MEBCHANTS,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CmTU
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE.
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTEHTIOH TO THE RUTIHH OP TEAS.
——IGI
INDENTS ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Thm But Panafacfturinf Machines In Exlstanu.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS
•II YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Salt Agasta lot the above lot New South Walea tad Queesalasd.
DR. RICHARD,
i
OM
P.Q
CO
D* RICHARDS
m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
V
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practioe
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
£ BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private oi
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not on.nk you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselveß.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spr ing Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Jfc mm H mention this paptr when writing,
( —.■■■■
OowßfnwATTOw Fm»«
A GOOD SITTER.
MRS. MURPHY: Och, if yez be going ter sit all day long, go out and sit on thim
eggs that ould hen has left. It’s some use ye’d be !
A wombat who modestly styles himself
“Cosmopolitan ” exhibits his fatuity in the columns
of the Sydney Morning Herald by asserting
that “ a party of Australians should be sent to the
relief of Stanley and that more lustre would be
added to the name of Australia by this act than
any other.” Australians, since the ludicrous
Soudan fizzle, have learned that lustre of this
character is a thing to be despised, and that what
they require is peaceful intercourse with all
countries; wars and entangling alliances with
none. The creature who desires to advertise his
country by the slaughter of unoffending niggers
in the interests of an over-rated advertising hum-
bug like Stanley has no title to the name
“ Cosmopolitan.”
A poor, ragged woman from Kilburn was
caught begging at West End, London, and was
brought up before Newton, the magistrate notori-
ous for his connection with the Cass case. “ Keep
up at Kilburn,” said this precious forensic fossil,
“and don’t comedown to this neighbourhood.”
Mr. Newton just said with his lips what the
average British Tory says with his heart: “Demos,
keep your poverty and your rags and your sorrow
and your filth from out my sight. It offends me
and reminds me that I am living on the crust of
a social volcano.”
The novel which Julius "Vogel is writing
or editing, or which somebody else wrote and he
is dry-nursing, or which will never be written, or
something, professes, it is said, to deal with mat-
ters as they will meander round in the sublimated
by and bye of ad. 2000 Julius is alleged to say
among other things : “ Equal political rights are
enjoyed by the sexes, but the dominating parties
in the State are controlled by women.” Eader
Abramsh! Give us something new. The
dominating parties during the Stout-Vogel re-
gime were women—old women.


Business Announcements,
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
BRUNTO IPS
BOYAE PATENT STEEL ROLLBB
FLOUR
Ota be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Ylotorla.
SYDNEY .„ ... 84 Pirn* Stbbb*j.
BRISBANE... ... ...Edwabd Stbmh,
MELBOURNE Bpmw'jbi Sobbbh
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
The Greatest Suooess\
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
j All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Hr, E, L KUBElUiffl, Consultin' Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
S© WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call oan write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they oan be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more 1
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1888.
to H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Soienoe, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to oertify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expeotorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
aeoordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Inourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ourable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to oure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieoes of
Skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very&st.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weig - i,
A result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
tame (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me F V jth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tar All Consultations Free. M
Notioe.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreemer* whloh
provides that No Cost is ineumo in on. event of Cure
not being Effect rd.
4 mmiss &EKS2I
Xo all Affitobed with Rheumatic God*, Tic
DolobkuXj aohins Fains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when ens
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHKUMATIO PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure In a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 3s. 6d., 55., and IBs.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSK’S C-ILKBRATED KYB LOTION,
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
HEyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its.agenoy can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
B, £, ROSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 Georae-atreet, only.
WANTED, Files o! The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Office,
iQ- 3ES 3ivr 23 i OTB 1-1,
OOKNEB OF
ISST MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
mssm
ftosoaovs
m
ppm
M
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D„ COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’a Hotel) Proprietress.
THE “ PLUM ” RAZOR.
:}-
FOR PRIVATE USE is Unsurpassed. Genuine German F How Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor,
10a. Od. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £l. Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & Al KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed !
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article , and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABIL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
JF*OX*<3.3Tl£l<U €§£> CO.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
•: o :
Rubber Valves, Washeks, Gaskets &c., &c. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
lllSl
DO
ftfcp
in §f %@m£ USM WOM. Q ' MjST'JSM.SIS’I MM
SAUCE which em gekuteted m dsm the PssMte, Lm &m£.Perrsm
have t® request §Jmt Putrgk&MFß B@s ihst $M £.>*&■*■■ w awffi
h&n their Sigmtom
witkmfj whisk m $f She ifdgimll
SA UCE is gusashs-
A<i fa” LEA andPBRRMS 3 Seme, md m fflme m JtesM, .MM eM
Stopptr. Wholesale and for Expert hy ike Proprietors* Worssstoei Crosse
Blackwell, London, &c,, &*g~z <md hy Gboeers send Oihften tikrmgkm*# me _
4
''s'
6
>■
tfl
-
ft
:■-
£
£
>
&
#OO
'd
ninmi i miiii mummi noinuTi
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
WANTED, the address of ANTON HERMANN, born
in Triest (Austria). Anyone able to furnish this in-
formation, please communicate with above office.
!E<. Xyi.clk!L < tin.@x 9
CONSUL.
Assurance Companies.
THB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated toy Aot of Parliament, 17 Vie,,
No. 10.)
Reslßtered Capital ... .« 41,108,101
Paid-up and Subscribed ... M ASS,OOO
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman,
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For S years 7 per oent. I For 1 year B per oent.
For 6 months A per oent. 1 For 8 months. 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments. "
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES. ,C i*
■< ' r •- a
Estates Managed. Rentß, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Siad OiKOn-I*, & 11 HUNTER STREET
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1871.
CAPITAL, 4508,190.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices —10, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices —Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS j
8 months, 6 per cent.
® it 7 ii
II ii 8 ii
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of II months,
per oent. 6 months 1J per oent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, 1| per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
BmsineM.. Announcement.
WIJfIIH AUSTRALIA*
MS II s Christum Card Series,
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THE MOST AETISTIO SERIES PUBLISHED,
■
H. King. Photographer, 316 George St„ Sydney,
BETWEEN G.P.O. AND HUNTER STREETS,
TATTERSALL’S
icism ccr"',fijiois
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.—-Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Riven, Apply,
Hr naan* Oflfia*
The Divine Shakespeare put his father in
gaol.
Brisbane Telegraph charges M‘llwraith
with “attempting to reduce the colonies to the
position of allies of Great Britain.” Making an
ally of a dependency is very like reducing a
country upwards; but after all, it really is
humiliating to be considered an ally of Great
Britain just now.
A young man, 26 years old, who had been
a turnkey at Kilmainham Gaol, Ireland, and
who arrived in N S.W. a few months ago, has
been pitchforked into the position of deputy-
governor of the Trial Bay (N.S.W.) penal estab-
lishment—over the heads of men a Ecore of years
in the service. The Yellow Pup?
Mr. Stevenson, M.L,A. for Clermont (Q.),
who left for England a short time back, takes the
place of Mr. Eyfe on the London Board of Advice
to that colony. When MTlwraith’s character
was under suspicion, in connection with Govern-
ment contract work, Mr. Fyfe allowed himself to
be set up by Sir Samuel Griffith as the watchman
on the tower, whose business it was to denounce
political turpitude. When Sir Thomas regained
ascendancy Mr. Fyfe had not the wisdom to
voluntarily retire, and the consequence is that he
has received formal notice to go.


Messrs. Moet & Ciiandon are now shipping to the
-Colonies their 1884 Vintage “ Dry-Impdrial ” Cham-
pagne. This is the produoe of their own vineyards of
2500 acres of the choicest growths around Epernay. The
“Dry-Imperial” has never been shipped to the colonies
before. It is very dry. Ask for Moet’s “ Dry-Imperial ”
af all Wine Merchants
Tub 1884 Vintage is one of the best of this century
Moet and Chandon are now shipping their " Finest Extra
Quality ” Champagne of that year (with 1884 branded on
cork and label), styled “ Dry—lmperial.” _lt is very dry,
and is the produce of their own vineyard of 2500 acres of
the best growths in France. Of all Wine Merchants.
UPaxsoaa’s J G-rape t Sa.lian.e-
TRADE MARK—“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY."
Specially prepared from, RIPE FRUIT , and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
AGfeNTS :
w. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON'S GRAPE SALjINE.
Grosvenor Hotel,
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CHURCH Mill I* SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
rnHIS Magnificent Hotel ie now open,
and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar Amerioan and Euro-
pean establishments.
It Is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Electric
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. ROWAN, manager.
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
ClstxexxcLoxx Hotel, IMla.xi.l3r.
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Lrrge Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and.her Hotel the best in the colony. .m ~.Y r Jj " vl .iI
Mrs. IKILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, , MANLY.
§ lealO'X’EL,
*■
LAUNCESTOB, TASMANIA.
i
m
"•*
aiiiu'
• ■ i
m
Is
8 ;
• !
m
r*
m
Wines, “French Liquors & Banana Cigars a Speciality the Souse. Cuisine Fraaeaise,
* Ha. deusvse
Proprietor. 1
NFW BILuARI; TABLE, SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY
miXTAUTD (OUSHIONSs &a., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fltted by our own men.
iJIGHES, OBIS, BALLS im stock, alio CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS k Ml.
BBRROUGHES & WATTS,
f, Littl6 Georg 6 Streei 0 SYDNEY,SgoJqnffIJOffiOISL
TEETH .LIKE PEARLS,
ailt* and sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvm, and dalif I*-
iTjilllly fragrant breath <•■»" beat be ebtateefi by <ft!*s«Ksiag y«»tt» tooth powdais S'&fi wtite.
3b£ akin* dally
iragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic proposes •wdaefc
iftehly twnencial influence on the teeth and gum*. Ml Dentists allow that neither «(f
metei can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the tenth and prOTemmg decay as® I®p»
tt®a-*ritt|' tooth powder: such BOWJGANDB* ODONTO.JSm ywrad
Ho other'©domto la g®nffl!a&
BdWLANDS’ MACASSAR » sktw g»M! i l ® e goita ottos? Mi
ifite and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS* KALYDOR beewtitei the oomplezlon, eradicates all ChtawgggQ
affects and renders the akin soft, smooth aM (Mtaeto, Ajfe sayptotwi t<x mithMMW,
• nt» Oawtasi, EsPaW m 4 mm awEtofflC tesJWßwh
Wholesale and Retell A*ente-ItUOTT Bbob and R, PbOBBBB A„CJo , Sydney
Missing Kelatives.
Wanted the address of Mark Starbitck. Last heard of
about 1868 or 1869. Left England iB5O. The letters were
then addressed ti him, care of J. J. Martin, Great King-
street, Dunedin, Otago, N.Z. His brothers and sisters
will be glad of information. Address, Mrs. Hunt, 311,
Redford-road, Nottingham.
Waters or Jones. —News wanted of Jame 3 Waters,
alias William Jones, a native of Bristol, England, who
left England, 1850, in H.M.S. Rodney, bound to Van
Diemen’s Land. Last heard of in Swan River distriot
News will be thankfully received by his brother, John
Waters, No. 14, Herford-etreet, St. James's, Bristol, Eng-
land.
Greavhs. —John Greaves left Deanhouse, Honley,
Huddersfield, Yorkshire. England, about 1852 or ’53 ; last
heard of on the goldfields. His nephew, John Greaves,
would be elad to hear from him. Address, John Greaves,
Honley, Huddersfield, Yorkshire, England.
Broken Hill Proprietary mine gives regular
employment to 2300 men.
•ne station near Wilcannia, N.S.W., has
lost 03,000 lambs this season through the drought.
Good name for a new paper to cater ex-
clusively for the Australian sporting public—the
Rtfrafferek.
There never yet was a woman who ever
bought a dozen oranges from a hawker without
calling from the balcony, “ Are they good ?” And
there never was a hawker who answered “ No.”
Sydney Evening NeWs reports that “the
bathers at Manly are disconsolate because no
sheep’s cffal has been found in the water for the
last few days ” Couldn’t some of the newspapers
spare some of their ottal ?
Griffith used to say bitterly spiteful things
about MTlwraith once, and his hints were of the
darkest. Now he admits that for sheer, broad,
comprehensive political genius the Nationalist
leader has no equal in Australia.
Quoth a new-chum, addressing a Barcal-
dine (Q.) matron
“ Excuse me, madame, I find Aramac and Arilalah on
my map. Can you direct me to those places V The reply
wae brief and to the point, the lady having just arrived
<* from over beyant.” “ Sure you’re makin’ game of a
lone widdy and her ten childer, wid yer Arrab, Mac, and
Arrah, Lally. Me name’s nayther Mac nor Lally, but
plain Bridget, and if yer intintions is honourable, and ye
mane to be a fayther to the faytherless-—But he
had fled.
In the Supreme Court of the Bahamas
(British Crown colony), last July, the first busi-
ness was the sentencing of one Taylor to “seven
years’ penal.” The prisoner instantly darted from
the police and struck the judge heavily twice with
a big club. He was overcome after a great
struggle, during which the railing of the witness-
box was torn away. The C.J., having a thick
skull, was not seriously injured, and three days
after the occurrence he had recovered sufficiently
to pass judgment on his assailant, who was sen-
tenced to receive 30 lashes at once and to be kept
in penal servitude for the rest of his life. This is
the way to get level with your enemies.
Mr. H. Tennent DonaldsoD, in a recent
issue of the Sydney Morning Herald, calls on
all who love the good and f rue, &c , to raise up
their voices, &c., against the iniquitous Divorce
Bill, so that “we may retain those household vir-
tues for which Britons have ever been renowned.”
Here, while shedding tears that well-nigh blot
out this unveracious accumulation of flatulence,
let us remark, in all sorrow and humiliation, that
there are, despite of the philanthropic exertions of
“ Jack the Ripper,” at least 100,000 unfortunates
who are compelled to walk the streets in London
alone. So much for the “household virtues” of
Britishers.
Ib is cabled that Lord Salisbury, alluding
to the recent Holborn election, when a Tory
candidate was elected against the Glad-
stonians, explained that the reduced Tory
majority was owing to a strong Liberal can-
didate having come forward this time, whereas
at the last election the Liberal candidate was a
Parsee named Naorogi. It was too much to ex-
pect Englishmen to vote for a black man. The
Liberals are vigorously denouncing the Premier’s
sneer at the Indian subjects df the Empire, and
the Indian newspapers are wildly excited. Ib is
intended by the Liberals to bring forward the
question as a subject for debate in the House of
Commons. As a matter of fact, Mr. Ritchie, who
polled so well for the Liberals at last election, is
almost black, while Naorogi is nearly white. This
slip of Salisbury’s casts a fierce ray of light on the
Imperial Federation question. The British Pre-
mier has let the Indian subjects of the Gracious
Empress Victoria know that they are only tole-
rated because they can be looted, and that the
proud white Briton in his heart despises the
nigger. We shall be glad if Consul Griffin will on
nexb Queen’s Birthday deal with this matter in
his inevitable speech concerning the approaching
unification of the “ English-speaking races.”
An American journalist writes the epitaph
of Lord Alfred Paget, a British nobleman who
dropped off the other day at the age of 80 or
thereabouts, and doddered round after the Lotties
and Totbies of the ballet to the very last—and
sizes him up in three pathetic sentences
He was a jolly old cock and had a jolly good time.
They planted him in Hampton churchyard yesterday.
Many lords, admirals, generals, and gentlemen assisted,
and the profession was represented by one costumier,
one muaioal conductor, one theatrical manager, one
variety showman, and one or two “ real ladies.”
Alfred Paget was about the last of the jovial lords
of England. The noblemen he left behind him
mostly look like undertakers, and five millionaires
among them appear as if they always wished they
were dead. The saddest men in England are in
the Upper House nowadays, and the peers who
don’t look sad are short and squab, or else long
and scraggy, or they have foreheads that slope
backwards like the gladsome chimpanzee, or else
they are harassed with large red ears, or otherwise
handicapped. Among the Lords there is hardly
one who would serve as a model for a sculptor;
the new barons are mosbly unwarlike and vast
about the stomach, and the old ones appear to
have inherited their shape from their ancestors
who were themselves knocked out of all shape in
the wars of the Dark Ages. As a collection of
human curiosities the Lords are well to the front,
bub otherwise they fall woefully flat.
The uncontrollable bounceableness of the
new German Emperor is beginning to arouse un-
pleasant forebodings among the military veterans
of the Fatherland. The rampageous William
is obviously clearing the way for a fight, and
should France prove the object of attack it is
feared in many quarters that Germany will be
floored. The French army is now as strong and
almost as well trained as that of its enemy across
the Rhine, and it possesses a wonderful weapon
in the Lebel repeating-rifle, an implement of de-
struction which wipes out everything yet invented
or conceived by the mechanical homicides of
Berlin. The Lebel rifle, too, has one immense ad-
vantage over anything yet produced—it is silent
The powder used in its cartridges makes no smoke
and hardly aliy perceptible report, and the new
death-machine speaks in a whisper and supplies
no clue to the whereabouts of the troops by whom
it is used. The sauer-kraut veterans of Germany
are brave enough, but they object strongly to be
used as targets for the insanitary weapon carried
by the French infantry, and the generals vainly
implore Kaiser William to sing low, and howl the
“Watch on the Rhine” in a softer key. The
young Imperial cripple, however, treats these
warnings with contempt, and pursues his noisy
way as before, and Europe experiences a dreadful
sinking feeling at the pit of the stomach, and
waits for something awful to turn up.
Bar to ambition—the rules of the N.S.W.
Bar.
The yield of gold in Victoria last year was
the smallest for 35 years.
M‘llwralth has gone to be Japanned, and
will return as good as new.
The White Waistcoat Chamber ot N.S.W.
has again kicked out the Payment of Members’
Bill.
Victoria has enfranchised the police.
Many N.S.W. legislators propose to disfranchise
the Civil servants.
There is no satisfying them. The Banana-
men now complain that they are threatened with
a Norman invasion!
In becoming “Mrs. John Wood,” Miss
Essie Jenyns has taken to herself a very cele-
brated histrionic name.
Four leading noblemen and gentlemen are
said to have refused the Governorship of Queens-
land. Just think of it! Eight refusals !
The London Times’ lying insinuation—
that Queensland wanted to be governed by
nothing less than a Duke —was echoed by the Mel-
bourne Herald.
Not one of the Irish members of the
N.S.W. Assembly voted for Mr. Buchanan’s
amendment for Separation. They metaphorically
“skulked behind the curtain.”
One of the principal pictorial attractions
at Melbourne Exhibition is Mosler’s great paint-
ing, “Abandoned,” for which the artist received
£15,000 from Mr. H. H. Warner, the “ Safe
Cure” man.
The Argus flunkey in London wired :
“The Observer considers that the objections
taken by the Queensland Ministry to the appoint-
ment of Sir Henry Blake are extremely frivolous.”
What the Observer considers is a matter of in-
difference to everybody except the Argus collector
of obscure muck. He is the only man who reads
that dreary fourpenny paper.
Sir G. M. O’Rorke thinks that Sir G.
Grey is more entitled to a peerage than Sir Her-
cules Robinson. That goes without saying, but
we are inclined to think that the Knight of Kawau
would decline to receive anything at the hands of
the Colonial Office. Anyhow, a man of Sir George
Grey’s calibre would gain nothing by being pitch-
forked in amongst the Brasseys and sich.
A good Btoryistold of a Sydney French Jesuit
priest. He once was dining with an ecclesiastic
who prided himself on a certain physical resem-
blance to the stately-looking, if portly, Arch-
bishop Vaughan, and who asked, “Do you not
think, father, I am very like the Archbishop ?”
The Jesuit looked at his stout questioner, and
then said, “Yes, father, you are like Archbishop
Vaughan— from the chin down."
Mrs. Collins, the “Botany Borgia,” in ad-
dition to poisoning her second husband, Michael
Peter Collins, seems to have also killed, in
the same manner, her r first husband, Joseph
Andrews. We wonder whether she had ever
read Fielding’s novel cf that name ? If not, it
would be just as well that she should now have an
opportunity of doing so. Mrs. Collins’ condition,
it is said, will prevent her being executed.
Rad is the party colour of the American
Democrats, and this fact led to the posting of the
Following notice outside a Chicago Church during
the Presidential campaign : —“ Members will re-
frain from wiping their foreheads with red ban-
danas during the service until after the next
Presidential election, as such an act encourages
Democrats to cheer for Grover Cleveland, and
proves a serious interruption to divine service.”
Dear Bulletin, —Queensland does nob
boast yet of a professional executioner, and so, it
is said, at the late double judicial murder in
Brisbane the services of “ Nosey Bob,” of Sydney,
were requisitioned. Could not the noseless one be
compelled to adorn himself in the old crape mask
face-gear ? Anything would be better than the
repulsive hideousness ushered upon criminals in
their last moments by this intercolonial launcher-
into-eternity. Can hi 3 appearance in Brisbane be
regarded as another step to Federation ?—L.J.
The Victorian Paper Mill Company, with
a capital of £120,000, in 60,000 shares of £2 each*
has been placed on the market, and the shares are
being rapidly taken up. The mills the company
take over are situate at Geelong (Vic.), and for a
long time past have been worked at their fullest
capacity, having, indeed, been unable to overtake
the orders. Last year the operations of the business
showed a net profit of over £5006. The eagerness
with which the shares are being taken up is an
evidence that there is plenty of Australian capital
available for investment in genuine enterprises,
and this is just one of the industries that deserve
the support of all classes of the community.
“ Tenb Life in Tiger Land," the latest
literary effort of Minister of Instruction Inglis,
now of N.S.W. and formerly of India, is enthu-
siastically spoken of by the Pall Mall, which
recommends the volume as the Christmas gift-
book for boys, and says that Mr. Inglis’ story of
the hunter impaled on the horns of a buffalo bull
and carried about for days until the rotting flesh
dropped from the bull's horns, iB one of the most
gruesome horrors ever printed in English. We
hear that Mr. Inglis is already at work on a
Christmas volume for 1889, the chief interest
whereof centres in the story of a certain benevo-
lent tiger. This animal, roaming in the bush of
N.S.W., happened upon a little shivering boy
who was curled up, blue with cold, in the corner of
a fireless State school, and he immediately ate up
that little boy to put him out of his misery.


Hotels,
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
NEWCASTLE.
I Vint*, Bur*, and Spirits a Speciality .
Hot, Cold, and Showeb-Baths on bach Flat.
BILLIARDS 1 BILLIARDS!
Hotel ifl now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Famished Hotel In the
Colony. It is beaatifuUy situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Publio
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
Mount Morgan hotel, Queens-
land.
Under the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
cellency Sir A. Musgraye, K.C.M.G. Aooommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. FronL
tup balconies a splendid view can be obtained or
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
mail ooaches daily from Rockhampton and
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON. Pro-
prietor, of the firm of Monokton and 00.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spbnobb Street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light,
‘ofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large pnolie-
*oom, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, Bhower
hnd needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
surpassed In Australia. Visitors Can rely upon
being called lor early morning trains. Letters
ft nd telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strlotly
® advance). Six Shillings and Sixpenoe per
Charter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sa.e every Friday at
Jhe office, George Street, or from the runners In
'he street.
Medical.
SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 820. Dr]
bpeer Is a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
Harvard College, U.&. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21et, 1888; also NeW South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The dootor has devoted 14
to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
oomplaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will reoeive his honest opinion of their complaints.
’ No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
s™°' His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
? r gauio disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
'' other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
*'certain result, there Is no reason why it oannot be re-
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
vlshes it distinctly understood that he does not olaim
Perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
culms only to be a skilled and suooessful physioian
fcughly Informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
rim? 1 * 1 * LEASES 0 f MEN and WOMEN. People
<W 1 a dlßtanoe oan, by explaining their troubles in
Om-’I be treated at home. The oourse of treatment will
in any way Interfere with their business. Examlna-
and advioe free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
o f "**, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
®Weets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Offioe hours,
Iq *-tn. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
t 0 U a.m. only.
free
Pit H 3 OBIPTIONB are to
be found in the “LIGHT AND
for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DE-
ILITY and Kindred Diseases, ftc. Aoopyof
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Fenny
Address—
8. WARD ft 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
KOLEManeaSons;
Eucalyptc On, a.
(
m
Victory Ointment^
*NE TREE OF LIFE.
SMgffiS&lS
Business Announcements.
SKATE ROLLERS.
fTUJRKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best in the Ameri-
can market, at the following low prices -
1J in. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots
2 in. „ „ 10,000
If in. „ „ 50,000
2 in. „ 50,000
$l5 per lot
$l7
$l2
$l4
Through rate to Australia about $1 50c. per 1000 rollers.
Address—
JOIU T. LONG,
182 & 184 S. Clark-Btreet, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
$
$
V
VURt
▼fa* «r
APS St
-~V
ttawc^T
w 4
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Laßsetter’s)
And
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight Id
gold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. lyrite to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
DYMOCK’S GREAT EXHIBITION OF CHRISTMAS
CARDS AND PRESENTATION BOOKS.
Largest and Cheapest Assortment in Australia!
100,000 Volumes of Books, and 70,000 Christmas Cards.
SEND FOR BYMOCK’S MARVELLOUS I’ACKKTS !
fa. BEST VALUE IN THE WORLD! 'lSfc
Grand Assortment for Is., Worth 10s.
The 2/6 is the Amazement of all, Worth 20s.
The 65., Unequelled for beauty and Assortment worth £6.
Dymock (book arcade), 143 King St., Near Tram.
PUNTCAS &SO#s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGF STREET
SYDNEY
V PORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And nfc ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
THEORICINAL
AND
OBTAINE
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
RECEIVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZEMEOAL
Manufactured byJames Channon
H arbour S T Sydney
Sold by All Crocersand Slorekeepers
M
Medical
WONDERFUL MEDICINE
SEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
As* nnivapsally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
' Cold Chills .Flushings
of Heat, Doss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
toff Sensations, Ac. The firet dose will give relief
la twenty minutes.
Brery sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
toe of these Fills and they will he acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Jfcse female* of all ages theee Pills are invaluable,
a* a few doeea ef them harry off all humours* and
bviaff about all that is required. No female should
ba without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given With each box, they
will soon restore females of dll ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
ensured by their use. •
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doees will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore: the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BKBCHAM’S PILLS have the Largeit Sole of any
Tatent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
4s a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronohial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Whining, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the beet ever offered to the pnblic and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM'S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short i*ime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Baalers everywhere.
N,B.—-Full directions are given with each bgx,
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund. 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit. *
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
aooordins to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobb MERCURY ob other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., Ac.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney. Nervous, and Speoial oomplaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified praotitioner advertising in Australia whe
holds, the Diploma of Physioian and Surgeon, hat
established the
“ flet®r tan Progressive Medical Institute.’
68, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual oure of all phases of Net
votts Debility, Chronic and complicated Affeotlons.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervout,
Head, and Mind Affeotions, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Deoay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con.
dltlons of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, oaU or write to Dr. Wright, and get hie
honest opinion of your oomplaint. I? It Is curable, ht
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he Is confident of effecting a
oure. It will cost you nothing for oonsultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a dlstanoe
H.8.-I wlshlt dlsMnotly underwood that I do not olalin
to perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous nower
I claim onlv to be a skilled and successful Phytldan
thoroughly informed In my speciality. ’
Note Address'-
FESS&ESSI7E KEDICR lESWEIE,
68, Flinders Stbbet W., Melbourne.
tr Wo connection with any other Medical Inttitute in
Australia \ Box S6B, G.P.O,
FOR SALE. —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Business Announcements
' ■ ■ ■—
Guiness’s Extra Stoat.
FIRS! QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
B°™* PURVEYORS bo the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston ft Op,,
Cemmerclal Chamber*. Bond-Street, Sydney
T> OBERT BUTCHER A CO
£bit to° VED th6lr Whol<sBalo * inte anii
GEORGE STREET
W£NHa W SPTRTTO 1, * t f^Li^rpoo l streets),
WIWKS, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and nil ~r
Bond at LOWEST RATES. °
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
fi. STEPHENSON
HAS OK SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, ft; WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, tea,
COOPERAGE,
88T KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET’
Between King and Market Streets,
♦FMt sifmc BenfflySwSSri.
BoytPe Seanl 1 ISUair did thie,
\andwiU do ii ok either halt
'htc l or bare fact- Fortee
heavy Mmetacho in from 9 to
* ~TT~ < •***• aw* <eever faOe.SOfIOO
£L SBTSU-
8
WALDBR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker.
• 180 PITT BTRKET,
Marquees on Hire.
imbrcllas
RE-COVERED.
S’
tudy j|coflro*Ks
Haseyddr VroVeil* f
corered. endri
Para»6lt nj-liued and i
totfov # %£
J. SULLtVA
541 George St]
. Brickfield Hill, law,
BiTerpool and Bathurst .)
Parasols made to malf_
tames Repairs neatly tie
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Piotdbi and Moulding
• Btobb, 399 George-street (opposite Royal
m*®!) Is acknowledged to be t&e Beat and
Cheapest in the Oolonres. Photos., Engravings.
iSlJnOftSj and Re-gilding
ont with real gold edges.
ld Bohool Swings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
r I FB PRESERVATION!
BT
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonhdaib Stbbbt East, Mbabodbhb.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating >nfln«noes with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advioe
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quaoks.
Price per mail 3s. fid. (any
be had of all booksellers or
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street Wei
colonial stamps),
the Otto Pnolis]
it, Melbourne,®
To
iking


BEHAN’S
Slack Oils
OB
EMBROCATION,
808
Ills, CATTLE & IS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scar*.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS aud ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co., S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Bbisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J, BEHAN, V.S., 33 Pitt Street, Redfern.
PRICE ... 2s. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
TT OliLO W AY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the divined world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficient action is at once
reoognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nrw Oxford-st., London. £W Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
•purious.
P. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
*r WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS SoO m , A»o* "*»
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies fin wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
tgt The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. 13T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
tar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
MSI-CLASS LADIES' EErmB&T EOOII anl LAVATOU
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
. HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAGH BROTHERS.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOT*
Are Reduced from 30a. to 21»*
MS PITT ST., BIDSBI <N«*r
***
Porpom Hide Wears Twice M Lonf
any other leather.
—i * K“—' *
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OVER
BIRMINGHAM and LIVER 1 ’ 001 *’
KT LONDON FASHIONS
Fresh Goods Every Fortnig^
MASON BROTHERS*
ms'CSS’Wstb®® I ''
SYDNEY' ea s
Have always in
to the Trade and vvnu*"
Buyers Only.
IRONMONGERY
GENERAL
GLASS, CHINA,
AND „ T a ft &
BARTHEN wA
WINES, BEERS f f IRI
john wiKR^f 3
Old Highland Whis >
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
i sssS lS
t77"Lllia jjoo. 34:2 O-eorgre Street, S^d-ra.©^
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIOS.
BALL PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THIS
SEWIMB MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
VIC T O
R X A.
MELBOURNE
»•
ft
Richmond
WINDSOB
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA
BEEOHWORTH ...
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL...
BALE
MARYBOROUGH...
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, new Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall,
... Swan Street.
... ... Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... .„ Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... ... 56 Moorabool Street.
... ... Main Street, next Aeschimann's.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age HoteL
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY IE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINB OB BACKETS THKOUBHOUT TNS
Gh. 3T 1 - E s XO3C3L.BS <S& SOUS, CaxxlSLg-e
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository: 6,7, 9, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Manufactory: - 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET,
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY U
BO***
MEL
0*
tffl
NFW T A ELF—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or tn the Event of Swrvtval, 1 UL
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. Branches in all bhe Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
“ Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Hekr RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Serf-Cure FOR Nervous Debilitt and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
mm
mfmfm I
uilT'
