

Fjoua
j ®OCKR FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA..
J. 8. FRY & SONS, BaujiOL, London and Stdntt.
" An ordinary oup oontaini men active propertlM of malt than a pint of the beat AIe>c Pertei.”— LANONi 1
The finest Estate yet offered to the Public.
aribyrnong Park,
F,
°ur and a-half Miles from the Melbourne General Post Office.
One Mile from Ascot Vale Station.
* This superb Estate will be offered in allotments each Week until disposed of.
~'•'' ' • ' '
rri'i
r— *,
Magnificent water frontages,
VILLA SITES, MANSION SITES,
|j
L^ e ~been the theme of constant admiration, and when you remember that C. B. Fisher,
j "> well known in racing and squatting circles, spent £40,000 in improving the land,
you will all rush for Plans and Passes to
Shevill & Co., Auctioneers,
f In conjunction with E. SHATTOCK and J. J. RENDLF.
SURVEYORS :
rs. Terry & Oakden and J. S. Jenkins.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. Madden & Butler.
The Bulletin


f + ***
totACU
fifWfAS
ANUFaCTuRIRS
f €s*o/*?,
*<S&?bedi
t/D BlifiHWG*o H S
g
Svmir
*FMW#K
TOBACCO
m
m
nr.
IXSONONS
£
0
x>
V
V
SIR ROGER
:
0
IXSONS
E. D. MILES.
MINING AND COMMISSION JL&BNI,
Mining Exohang*,
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUEENSLAND.
PA I
MEBB.IONT3 FAIN PAINX
CURES ,tm PAIN.
fhe beet known remedy (or RHEUMATISM
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &o.
end taken Internally cures DIARRHOEA
BYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and aUj other
sternal aches and pains.
io»A
11 mu mwiETot.
*■** * AKD SYDNEY;
Life pbi s ,jb ryationi
BY
Da. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdaxi Stbebt East, Mklboubnb.
This work Is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that Is of incalculable use to all
Bufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mall Ss. 6d. (any colonial Btamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
FOE SALE —Two Grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
McLEAN BEOS., BIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
518 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
<b
IRONMONGERS
o
o
<9.
*
%
S'
spaci '
luiU&tt, LstottftM l\ie-\reoalT?«A».\, iStea
BLKdBO-nATBD WA SB, OmBKY, TOOLS,
M «AB COOKINS STOVES I—LKONIS FLKTOHKK'S, JEANS ft WALKIKB,
BKADYOKD'S WASHING! MACHINES, fto,, fco.
WILLLA. Iv<CS’S
mu TEAS! Min
IS THB ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
'SHEAS, TEA-CAKES, FASTI'S’, **”
ARB
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE.
Em imm WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian least p o#
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA,
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
BOLD IN TINS AT 6d. THE HALF POU^ P !
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Kabserlbed Capital - - _ £549,151
Paid-up Capital ....... £240,554
fatal lienu taut Half fear ... £809,534
nmm B Par GhL br TWELVE MOUTHS.
SAVINGS' BANK BRANCH.
To Person* who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wi|h to seeure INTEREST upon Buch sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
■VERY DAV THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANOI offers the rery best opportunity. Depositors in this braneh
eeeeive WIVE P»r oenL per annum upon their ZimUg Balance.
4XPLB mi tor Borrowers. TSBV3 LIIESAL
minm;
i-'f. -
.'*■ .*; ; , *yw=J.»go<t.ig
0
: \ • I .e
Sl,„ :■ y«?
Sfifi 11 Jila
i 'lfy
ti i
« ! ii .Vi
A'i-i ■!' i
PREMIE#
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET E*’
£25 Contributing Share*
f JM
£4AN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment 0 }( ,
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Sb** 6
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Comp oOD
amount to £25, when that Bum Is paid over to their hold 01 "®
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares received (
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contri
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Mon. 40Dr BfIMMO, M.P., J.P.,
JAMBS Mill AMS, M.P., J.P„
at*Lmo&riZ
H Yj'ji jHn
ijfr” i ifns’.!
Federal* Coffee Pala^
COBNEH OF
@1
EZira.gr <Sc Collirrs streets, "MZelTooto.!^ 1
Containing 500 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOKSB&, Hagnlficently Furnished-
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine aia
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
a
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND FL
OOA
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chtf, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
•Sfl*
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION W
HOT, GOLD and SHOWER BATHS.
TO-
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REP& ISIP Ap
■»■*«'
George Cohen


The Bulletin
Vol 9 —No 45?.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1888.
Price, 6d.
Cupid, the Commissioner.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
tterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tj e Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
City The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
¥he Rational Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the Australians.’*
iPSOPKIETORg ! BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
I Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
Ait 51 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 O
Half-yearly ... 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald. ,
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
bL Correspondence " column all contributions submitted —
Whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1888.
The Law-Its Lynchers and Reformers.
Well-conceived criminal laws may be made bad
by bad administrators. The criminal laws of
New South Wales were, as we have often shown,
viciously conceived, but to the curse inflicted upon
the country by the vice of irrational statutes is added
the curse of irrational administ ration. Late events
speak loudly of this. Between the law, as it stands
on the Statute Book, and the accused are the jury.
Their verdict proves the guilt, or establishes
the innocence of the accused. That is the mean-
ing of their existence. If a jury’s capacity to un-
derstand evidence fail, the trial in such a case will
be a mockery. If prejudice or ignorance blind a
jury, that trial, too, will be a mockery. If
jury after jury show incompetence, prejudice,
or ignorance, then the whole theory of trial
by jury will end in mockery. It is to this
last stage some of the administrators of law
would try to make it appear that trial by jury is
now approaching in New South Wales. When a
jury at Maitland acquitted a number of persons
charged with rioting, the Judge informed the
members that their verdict was in the teeth of the
evidence. When a coroner’s jury committed for
murder a young man named Coulton, the
Attorney-General, on behalf of the Crown,
changed the charge to manslaughter and had the
accused tried at Tamworth for that minor offence.
In the one case the Judge condemned the laxity
of the jury, in the other the Crown condemned
the stringency of the jury. In the latter the
Attorney - General represented the tribunal
known in English law as the Grand Jury.
In England the Grand Jury may modify a
charge or decline to present for trial a person
committed by a coroner’s jury. In the colonies
the functions c f this Grand Jury are undertaken
by the Attorney-General. This is both incon-
venient and unfortunate. In England, if the
verdict of a coroner’s jury be set aside it is
Bet aside by another jury. In New South
Wales the coroner’s jury is displaced by
a single official person. In the case referred
to, Judge Fosteb condemned the Crown as
energetically as he had condemned the jury in
Maitland. All the allegations against Coulton
were in black and white before him. The Crown
had only the same evidence to guide it. Yet the
Crown acting, not as a jury of persons, but as
prosecutor and jury combined in a single person,
reduced to manslaughter an offence which a
coroner’s jury, and afterwards a Judge and pro-
secuting counsel, affirmed to be murder ! These
cases are types. Numbers of similar ones exist.
The records of every assize are blotched with
them.
• • •
Such things should not be passed by in silence.
They are a standing declaration that the jury
system must be swept away, or that some of its
surroundings must be modifird. Sir A’lfred
Stephen and others are in favour of acbing on the
first plan. Sir Alfred moved to that effect in
the Legislative Council a year and a-half ago. We
opposed the motion at the time. Juries, we have
no doubt, err. They are, however, a constituent
quantity in the administration of justice. The
question of their abolition must bring the entire
body of the law under review. The day juries are
dispensed with the whole criminal code must be
torn up and a new one devised. This is true
of every place as well as of Australia.
The statement only applies more manifestly
to law as it is here. The average baker, grocer,
and tailor are nearer the sense of the community
than is the average judge) salaried or pensioned.
If the sense of the community live in the law,
then in the main juries will make good use of the
statute. If, however, this sense has never
vitalised it or has gone from it the law will fre-
quently fail to receive effect. Jurors live uncon-
scious of the demands of law until these demands
are brought formally before them. They grow in
mind and body from day to day and year to year,
adding to their stock of knowledge and experience
and, although irregularly, unconsciously and as a
body, progressing. Home day they are summoned
to a court and required to return an opinion under
a penal statute. Then the conflict between what
they apprehend as right now and what was appre-
hended as right when the statute was drawn up,
is started. They must end the conflict before they
leave the court.
• - •
The judge, on the other hand, has lived in the
constant presence of the enactment. Whatever
growth has taken place in him has done so under
its shadow. For him there is no contrast between
a suddenly-revived past and a living present. He
has been all the time handling the statute as a
breathing thing. The condition which he recog-
nises as a natural one of his existence is that until
some power, which it is none of his business to
put in motion, and no interest of his to see moving,
orders the instrument to disappear, he will con-
tinue to regard it as the only possible appliance in
the circumstances. The judge, therefore, represents,
in a rigid and fixed state, the penal ideas of the past;
the jury, in an indefinite but active state, those of
the present. The ideas which move the judicial
mind are destined to be removed in part or in
whole from the Statute Book, while those which
operate on the jury are destined, wholly or in
part, to be the statutes of the future. Any pro-
posal, then, such as that of Sir Alfred Stephen,
must be opposed whenever made. At all events,
before it is accepted for consideration provision
must be shown to be made to have the criminal
laws discussed and sanctioned by every Parliament
that assembles. What is all-important is that
written law and the public mind shall be at one,
and such accord as this will be prevented instead
of furthered by limiting the powers of juries or
abolishing the system.
* * *
As then juries, although they err, must be re-
tained, it is to modifications of the circumstances
which surround them that reformers must look.
The 12 men in the jury-box represent the million or
so who constitute the population. Have this million
given their assent to the pains and penalties in-
volved? Is not the juror often influenced by the
fear that a verdict according to evidence will b 9
followed by a punishment revolting to humanity ?
It may be said, and is said, that this is none of his
business. But the peculiarity of his position is
that he is not only a juror, and in that way a re-
presentative of the million, but one of the million,
and in that way responsible for the law. In a
critical moment he is likely to feel that it
is his business to study this question. In
Victoria two jurors studied it, the other
day, and from their places in the jury-box told
the judge that they would not convict. Before a
verdict according to evidence can be uniformly
expected a healthy sense must pervade the public
mind that the punishment will accord with public
demands. . Violent punishments are the untutored
reply to violent lives, while the tutored reply is
made with the knowledge that in the sound and
shadow of violent punishments other lives are
made violent. This consideration has vast signi-
ficance in New South Wales. If, in the future,
juries are not to become more intractable than
they are at present, the accord between crime and
its punishment must be studied with zeal. As it
is, the intelligent juror often finds himself an in-
voluntary accomplice in a mere brutal exhi-
bition of physical superiority. Nothing in
the matter or manner of the punishment tells
the criminal that he should feel ashamed of
his sin. His mind is not counted on, his skin and
tissues and vertebrae are the only objects of which
the law takes cognisance. Accordingly, the
criminal may be bruised but is not bettered.
Instead of a sense of shame being kindled within
him his brute nature calls up all its resources for a
display of pluck. If the resources be abundant
he passes through the torture with the exultation
of a hero. It is not penitence, it is not shame
that are at work. It is pugnacity and revenge
that are at play. And this goes on not within his
frame alone. Quivering throughout his cla-s the
same passions rage. Where is the room for sur-
prise if jurors feel reluctance to be accomplices in
a travesty so pernicious ? It is in vain the multi-
tude are iavoked to meditate on the dastardliness
of the crime committed. The dastardliness of the
crime is unseen in presence of the ferocity of the
punishment. What the crowd hear and see at
the supreme moment is not the offence but the ter-
rible expiation. A man fighting against a re-
morseless destiny is always on the side where
sympathy is easily aroused. If the act which
provokes the torture be noble, the victim is
deified ; if ignoble, and if he bears himself bravely,
he is yet an object of compassion. It is, theD,
necessary, if jurors are to be saved from per-
plexities, that the State should regulate the
matter and manner of its punishments so that
shame for the crime shall be the first feeling
aroused in the mind of the criminal, and detesta-
tion of it the first excited in the minds of the mul-
titude.
* * •
Another modification which will strengthen the
moral sense and the judgment of jurors would be
the conferring on them of the power to determine,
under the law, the degree of punishment which
crimes entail. The judicial mind is varied and
vagrant when the option of terms of imprisonment
is left to it. Offences, identical in every respect,
receive the most diverse sentences, and offences,
most distinct in gravity, are punished alike. The
Legislature’s intention was good when marking
the maximum and minimum years against offences,
but it has been badly seconded by the variable
discretion of individual judges. If all the judges
sat together they wmdd doubtless fulfil the object
the Legislature had in mind. Extremes would
then meet. But as extremes now act independ-
ently the object of the Legislature is worse than
defeated By remitting to the jury the power of
determining the duration of the punishment the
true object would be served. Extremes existing
among the twelve would meet in the jury-room,
and an average be struck. At present a juror
does not know whether or not, if he return a ver-
dict of guilty, the accused person will have to
spend three or fifteen years in gaol. This uncertainty
harasses his feeling of responsibility. The trans-
ference, then, from judge to jury of the power of
determining within ceuTn limits the duration of
confinement would meet Ui-> ends of the Legisla-
ture on one hand and help the moral sense of the
jury on the other.
* * *
And now, having admitted that juries in general
sometimes return verdicfs at variance with evi-
dence, and pointed out ways whereby, in our esti-
mation, their duties would be more easily com-
prehended and efficiently discharged, we go
back to the particular cases which give the
subject its present prominence. The judge who
condemned the jury at Maitland condemned
the law. He could not reject the verdict, and
thus his condemnation was obviously as much an
intimidation of other jurors as a punishment of
those before him. This is a performance that calls
for prompt reprobation. The Judge’s official cin-
duct is protected by the law of contempt. The
official conduct of a jury has as much right to be
protected. The Judge’s position entitled him to
decide in law. He assumed the function of de-
ciding on fact. He, in effect, told tire court that
the accused, or some of them, were guilty and that
the jurors had perjured or stultified themselves.
That is, he constituted himself, for the time
being, judge and jury, not alone on the evidence
given in the case, but on the evidence supple-
mented by the jury’s valuation of that evi-
dence. The Crown Law official who stepped
between the coroner’s jury and the arraignment at
Tamworth appears in a worse light. The Judge
at Maitland acted openly and at a time when his
action could not affect the case before him. The
Attorney-General acted covertly and at a time
when his action amounted to a rejection of a ver-
dict previously arrived at. If in Coulton's case
a Grand Jury had declined to bring in a true bill
for murder there would have been no cause for
criticism. The verdict, setting aside the earlier
one, would have been the verdict of a jury. As
it was, however, the proceeding was no more
than the judgment of one man triumphing over the
judgment of a legally empannelled jury. This
triumph, too, was matured in secret. No grounds,
satisfactory either to the Judge or prosecuting
counsel, were given for altering the charge.
The N.S.W. Attorney-General thus stands in the
posibion. of having lynched the law. By his mere
unexplained decree he stayed its operation in the
direction laid down by a jury and set it to w«rk in
another. While the criminal law is as it is, such
interferences with the verdicts of juries excite
suspicion and deserve reprobation. No official,
whether a member of an Executive or not,
should be tolerated between a jury and the law.
Trail as juries are they are yet stronger than any
of the powers that hunger to usurp their functions.
They have given better reason to be trusted by
the people, and yield surer grounds for hoping
that a 3 ci vilisation advances savagery will, through
them mere than through the agencies that decry
them, die out of legal enactments.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Compulsory Voting.
The Victorian daily Press has grown fierce and
rampant over the attempt of the Gillies Adminis-
tration to make voting compulsory in Victoria,
and the general impression is that the scheme will
fall dead in its infancy. The Age, especially, is
loud and vociferous about the infringement of
human rights and the “ death-blow aimed at the
principle of manhood suffragethe Akgus is
damp and pathetic, and the other journals are
bitter and contemptuous. The proposition that
every adult male white citizen, whose health per-
mits him to come to the poll, should be required
to take a hand in the government of his country,
under a penalty of 20s for default, is hailed every-
where by the organso£ Capital as an insult to human
intelligence, and the cry arises on all hands, “We
are governed too much.” The organs which repre-
sent vested interests and large bank balances protest
against any add ition to the multifarious duties of the
Australian citizen, and denounce compulsory
voting as a needless burden and a tyrannical
interference with public liberty. The apathy of
the working masses has hitherto, despite the
lavish extension of the suffrage, left the control of
government largely in the hands of the men of
vested interests, and the men of vested interests
as a natural result curse—on strictly patriotic
grounds—at any scheme which aims at forcing the
masses to take the control of public affairs into
their own hands. The Australian is already
governed too much, and the reason of this lies
chiefly in the somnolent indifference with which
he has left the business of government in the
hands of the affluent loafers of the land. A
parliamentary election is now almost invariably a
contest between two candidates representing
opposite sections of Capital, and the toiler stays
away from the poll because he cares very little
which hard-drinking adventurer is elected to raise
his blatant howl in the halls of legislation. The
issue usually put bsfore the public is that two men
both thirst for distinction and free rail way-passes,
and the privilege of billeting their impecunious
relatives on the nation, and except in times of
great public excitement the people at large are
comparatively indifferent as to which man is taken
and which is left. Compulsory voting, however,
even under the present system, might to some
extent alter the aspecb of affairs. On the one
hand, it might possibly induce the masses
to look for candidates whom they could respect
and thus raise politics into a purer atmosphere, far
removed from the ceaseless grab of syndicates
and the rush for corner allotments ; or if it
failed to do this it would demonstrate that
the Australian is a degenerate, spineless, effete
creature, enervated by long years of basking in
the summer sun, and rendered childish and in-
capable by his insensate devotion to “sport,” and
his deep-rooted conviction that the lout who wins
a boat-race and collects the gate-money is of
greater value to mankind than the poet and the
philosopher, the scientist, the statesman, and all
other men of learning combined. If a system of
compulsory voting merely led the Australian to
vote under compulsion for the same race of dull
political clods who have so long held the reins of
government in Australia it would at least save
much future outpouring about the greatness and
intelligence of the new nation, and would deposit
an old-established and misused piece of bunkum in
the silent grave. But if the advocates of the new
scheme wish to produce a positive benefit and not
merely to try an elab rate experiment upon the
minds of the Australian people their plan
requires considerable modification. When the
citizen is compelled to exercise the suffrage it
should be competent for him to record a block vote
against all the candidates alike should he regard
them all as equally unfit for the position to which
they aspire, and a majority of such negative votes
should disqualify every candidate on the list, and
compel the electors to seek for better men. With
such a qualification as this the proposed scheme
would be an immense advance on the haphazard
system by which the flunkeys and dirt eaters of
the earth monopolise the high places in the State
and inflict their eternal stupidity on the apathetic
country which they profess to represent, and if
there is any reasonable hope that Australia may
yeb realise that the highest duties of a nation are
nob entirely cricket and football and horse-races
and aquatic championships, the attempt is well
worth trying. Australia is already governed too
much and to very little purpose, and if there
exists any possible means by which the balance of
power can be shifted with a view to less govern-
ment and more honesty and common-sense, the
country presents a favourable field for the ex-
psriment.
The Beauty of Consistency.
Henrik Ibsen, in “An Enemy of Society,” re-
marks that a normally healthy truth dies in 18
years; .if it is furnished with more than ordinary
vigour it may manage to drag out an existence of
two years longer. The syndicate that run the
Sydney Daily Telegraph are evidently not of
Ibsen's opinion. With them a truth, instead of
living 18 or 20 years, ordinarily dies in 18 or 20
hours after ibs Orphic deliverance. On Wednes-
day in “Notes in Parliament ” the Radical editor
had something to say about Parkes’ weird scream
anent the administration of Justice in New South
Wales. On Thursday the Conservative editor
was on draught, an i he unwound his little notions
on the same subject in ‘ Topics of the Day.” This
is what these gifted peop e said
The D.T.’s Radical
Editor on Parkes’
speech on the adminis-
tration of Justice in New
South Wales:
Tne conduot of the
authorities in preserving
the peace at Newcastle was
marked by neither tact,
prudencp, nor ordinary
common sense. It was an
alternation between ex-
tremes of weakness and ex-
tremes of severity. Norden-
feldt guns or nothing was
the principle acted upon all
through. Instead of arrest-
ing peace-breakers in the
ordinary way at the first
manife ; tation of disorder,
authority stood still, and
when the trouble had de-
veloped they suddenly de-
clared war. What a lesson
the Queensland authori-
ties oan teach ours in
these matters. Up there
we have just seen the police,
not the military, ready to
arrest the navy, if required
to do so. ■ Here the police
shirk tne duty of running-
in a rowdy coal-miner until
they have a squadron of in-
fantry and artillery at their
backs. . . Then the
trials of the prisoners gave
equally objectionable in-
stances of the weak tyranny
by which the whole of the
proceedings were character-
ised. . . . Lawbreakers
should be dealt with firmly
according to law, not in
panic or frenzy. Authority
should not fuss. That is
about the moral of the
whole Northumberland
matter.
The D. T.’s Conserva-
tive Editor on Parker’
speech on the adminis-
tration of Justice in New
South Wales
lb is gratifying to observe
the impression which cour-
age and manliness makes
upon the mind of Parlia-
ment as illustrated by the
reception accorded to the
powerful speech made by
the Premier on Tuesday
evening on the subject
of the administration of
Justice. Up to the time
when Sir Henry Parkes
took part in the de-
bate its tenor was such
as to show far more sym-
pathy with law-breakers
than with the unfortunate
victims of outrage, or than
with the ministers of the
law upon whom devolved
the duty of repressing
them. . . . The country,
in reading Sir Henry
Parkes’ speech yesterday
morning, must have con
gratulated itself that the re
Bponsibility of upholding
law and Government is in
the hands of a man who
dares to assert that all of
his aid and sympathy is
due to the unfortunate vic-
tims of tyranny and vio-
lence, and to the servants
of the law engaged in its re-
pression, rather than to the
misguided men by whom
the recent disgraceful
scenes of outrage and dis-
order were enacted.
British Prosperity.
An old colonist who has recently returned from
England paints a miserable picture of the state of
things there. Trade, he says, is practically dead ;
profits cut down to vanishing point by the dis-
tributors, the country flooded with cheap, foreign
labour, while the poorly-fed, hovel-housed, ill-
clad, over-wrought wage-earner, fairly brain-
paralysed, seems incapable of recognising the true
significance of his position, or of resenting its in-
justice. This observer considers that the workers
as a race have degenerated greatly, both physi-
cally and mentally, during the last 20 years.
Under-sized, flabby, pasty-faced, and small-boned,
their mental capacity may be easily estimated by
the class of books and papers they purchase. For
one who reads Reynolds’, the Dispatch, or
Lloyd’s newspapers, fifty puzzle their muddled
heads over some wretched rag that issues coupons
with promises of gaudy chromos. and fat geese,
while dreary, inane, monotonous, humourless, if
well-drawn rubbish, like that published as “the
adventures of Ally Slopkr ” is deemed wit of the
highest class. For this miserable state of things
the workers are not to blame, except for tame en-
durance. The society that overworks men until
they are lowered mentally almost to the level of
the brute creation, while idlers and born fools
enjoy the profits of their toil by right of birth, is
rotten to the core, and every day hastens it
towards ruin.
“ The Life of the Czar.”,
Time and again comes across the ocean, like clicks
of the shuttle of Clotho, news of a reiterant at-
tempt on the life of Russia's Czar. The Nihilist
is ever dodging the tyrant; the policeman lurks
in the shadow cast by the Nihilist. Then one
day is an attempt which proves abortive, or a
seizure of fxplosives followed by a seizure of pre-
sumed assassins, and the cable flashes “Another
Attempt on the Life of the Czar.” “ Which is
worth the more,” asks thief Robinson of gaol-
chaplain Eden, in “Never too Late to
Mend,” “the good of one or the good of twenty?
Are twenty lives of less consequence than one
life?” The steps of the Autocrat’s throne are
dripping and slippery with blood. An alleged
attempt to kill him, and the executioner is over-
driven with hideous work. The air sings with
the swish of the knout. The roads are lined by
shivering wretches bound for the awful torture
of the mercury mines in the frozen East. The
capitals of Europe are thronged with Muscovitish
exiles. Heroes, men of rank and high position,
women, refined, cultured and delicately nurtured,
perish in dozens on the scaffold—and the cowardly
madman continues to flaunt his blood-stained
standard in the face of outraged Europe. This
craven wretch who crawls with timorous tread
through the corridors of his own palace, who
starts in horror from his own shadow, whose rule
is bedabbled in the blood of patriots, is the kins
man of half-a-dozen occupants, or prospective
occupants, of the thrones of the oM world. He is
part and parcel of the ancient lie of imposed
authority. He belongs to the age of boasted


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house).
Directors :
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq.
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 months 7 per cent.
T. 8. Kirliarilson . l»l nnging Director.
enlightenment and super-sensitive refinement.
Ambassadors from all the civilised powers of
Europe buzz and flutter round his court like Hies
Circling in the neighbourhood of carrion. He is
law, and law must be maintained ! This is the
lie of our era —authoritv however constituted
is right Is it? According to the Premier of
New South Wales it is. Sir Henrl: Pabkes,
Pcet and ex-Chartist, believes in the fiction
that the laws according to the Statute-book are
heaven-sent and GoD-directed. The law must be
maintained ! Wrong done in the name of Govern-
ment is Right. So argues Alexander by the
Grace of God, third C£&r of Russia of that name,
atid so argues every brief-timed tyrant who struts
his tinselled figure on the earth s tired crust. But
the end of the lie is approaching. Alexander
has been judged and condemned. The recent
arrests at Kutais will probably be fohowed by
fresh outrages. The twenty will again perish tor
the safety of the unit. This must, however, one
day stop. Retribution looms up clearly ahead,
and Russia is slowly working out her salvation
from the iron heel of despotism.. The hideous and
revolting absurdities committed in the name of the
Law that masquerades in the robes. of Justice will
not long pass unchallenged, and in the coming
reign of Right when the law outside shall
reflect the law that has its seat in men’s
minds, Humanity will pause in wonderment when
turning over the mildewed records of the past—if
any of them shall survive to that distant future—
that such a caption should have ever blotted a
journal of a civilised people as The Czars Life
Again in Danger ’’—for then czars and their lives
will be alike forgotten.
-4.
A Versatile Newspaper.
Wired from Adelaide by “Our correspondent”
to a certain Australian evening paper
THE WHITECHAPEL MURDERS.
The Fourth Crime.
Murder and Mystery.
The body was actually found in the back yard, just
behind the back door, mutilated in an even more ghastly
manner than the woman Nicholls. As in her case, the
throat was cut, and the body ripped open ; but the horror
was intensified by the fact that the heart and liver were
torn away, and placed under the head. . . . •
The dead woman was lying on her back with her legs out-
stretched, her throat was out from ear to ear, her clothes
were pushed up above her waist, her legs bare, the
abdomen was exposed, the woman having been ripped up
from groin to breastbone as before. Not only this, but
the viscera had been pulled out and soattered in ail direc-
tions, the heart and liver being placed behind her head
and the remainder along her side. No mere horrible
sight ever met a human eye, for she was covered with
blood, and lying in a pool of it, which hours afterward
had not soaked into the ground. On the wall of the court
in which the body was found were the words written,
"Five, ir> more, and then I give 1115 self up. 1 ’ . . . The
“ sensation ” is, of course, a great stroke Jor the. papers at
the dull season. On Monday the circulation of the
“Star" exceeded g.%,000, the biggest figure they have
touched yet. Their noon edition alone, in which the cap-
ture of a supposed " leather aprr.on ” was announced,
cleared out Hit,ooo.
The italics are The Bulletins.
Series of extracts from a one-column article,
“That Little Dinner” (at a certain Women’s
Industrial Exhibition) in the same paper of a few
days’ later date: —
I admit that caviare as a hors d'reuvre is excel-
lent. . . Oysters would . . . have been far better
for a bfginning, but if . . . you must have, caviare,
why ladies . . . introduce us to it spread simply on
pieces of thick bread 1 If you had taken your caviare and
mixed it in a mortar or a bowl with 6ome pure olive oil
and lemon juice, and a suspicion of cayenne pepper, and
then spread this upon very thin toast, you would have
given us something worth passing over the tongue. Then
as to your soups. . . The object of a dinner, when it is
a work of the highest art, is not to give a number of speci-
mens of soups or other dishes, but to give a menu com-
posed of the proper number of courses which everyone
will eat. However, since you would have two soups, why
make the clear mock turtle tasteless ? .... As you
had not given oysters as a hors d oeuvre you might very
well have dispensed with your fried and boiled fish
and have given us a mayonnaise tf those lobsters or
crayfish which are so good and so plentiful. . . .
Remember that a mayonnaise of lobster (well
made, mind you) is a gastronomic poem. How-
ever, let this pass. You followed with chicken
supreme, and after an interval of pate de foie gras in
aspic, you came on with what professed to be diedon aux
truffles and ham, and then you proposed to insult us with
Fillet de B®uf a la Chasseur. I say advisedly “ insult,”
for while Fillet de Bcnuf a la Chasseur is a splendid dish,
it was an insult to educated palates to introduce it in such
inooDgtuous company. In the first place your turkey was
not "truffled”—truffles may have been served with it.
If you must have two dishes of poultry, each with white
sauce, though two were quite unnecessary, why not have
a ragout of chicken and olives? But what would have
been better still would have been to follow your fish with
the pate de foie gras in aspic ; then to have served either
supreme of chicken, truffled turkey, or fillet de fcoeuf a la
Chasseur, the latter for choice, and then to have given us
the wild duck with which you preoeded the jelly with
strawberries. I am aware that there are people whese
gastronomic education has been totally neglected, and
who, &c., &c., &c.
Charming paper ! Cultured educator of the
people! In one band a woman's liver, in the other,
aspic jelly ! The refined writer of the Gargantuan
discourse from which we have, quoted, remarks in
the course of an essay which in point of sensuous
intention is not outdone by anything in the works
of Thomas Griffiths Wainewright, epicure and
poisoner, that “a weman may, by concentrating
her faculties for a time, produce a single dish in
something like perfection ; but when a dinner in
which the dishes should form component parts of
a harmonious and intellectual and beautiful whole
has to be composed by a woman the work is
generally of too great and grand a character, and
the sustained effort is too great for her intellectual
powers.” Applying this principle to newspapers
what a harmonious, intellectual and beautiful
whole do we find in our evening contemporary!
That penny literary dinner i J , we are almost
certain, not cooked by a woman! Surely to
Heaven no woman would ever expose in print a
picture of another woman, even though that other
woman were dead—lying uncovered alongside her
own viscera; nor, on the other hand, would any
woman ever take the trouble to snarl at the length
of a whole column over a feed. It may or may
not be a bad sign when a people write critical
columns about truffles .; anyhow, it goes to show
that they have n t to work very hard for their
beef. But it is a hideous sign when they are pre-
pared to tolerate the wanton importation to their
shores of foreign brutalities—when they are ready
to make a penny show out of a literary photo-
graph, from a foreign land, of a disembowelled
woman of the town.
<►
The Contingent’s Offering.
Australia mourns one of her brightest children ;
one of her most brilliant orators, ablest debaters,
most forceful advocates. His body has hardly
lost its life’s warmth ere an attempt is set afoot to
transform a most solemn event into a military
fiasco. The New South Wales Soudan Contin-
gent, taking advantage of the strong spasm 01
grief which has wrung the heart of the entire com-
munity, advance the proposition to erect above
his grave a memorial commemorating the most
melancholy act of his life. Mr. Dalley is to be
handed down to posterity as the originator of the
freebooting expedition whose most notable result
was the precipitating of Australia into a nation.
He is to be held up to the gaze of our children as
the exponent of Imperialism, the local agent of old-
world interests, the forger of old world fetters.
He is to be perpetuated as the counsellor of
Empire, the apologist for war, the advocate of
serfdom. His brightness and lightness, his literary
grace, his oratorical brilliancy, his culture, his
refinement, his love of letters, his polish and
multifarious accomplishments, his keen intelli-
gence and passionate ardour in the pursuit of the
intangible beauties of art and poesy, his open-
handed charity, are to be passed over and set aside*
to be buried in the tomb of ephemeral newspaper
mention and forgotten, and the Dalle! of posterity
is to point to Egypt and foreign war, to England
and Imperial bondage, to national helotage and
national suicide. Perish the suggestion! The
Dallky whose memory we delight to honour,
whose name, as a son of Australia, our children and
our children’s children shall quote with gratified
pride as one of their great and gifted countrymen, is
a Dallky who stands forward in our brief-lived
history as the avant courier of those rare aspira
tions and sublimated aims foreign to the bread
and-butter struggles of a new-born land. He is
the single instance that we have of the man who
lived as Goethe lived—for culture. In him we
have one whose life was an acquisition—of know-
ledge. He embodied in his intellectual personality
the tribunal to which are brought questions of
taste in literature and art. For all that he was in
the realms of keen and delicate intelligence we
hold him in the highest honour. For this we shall
hold his memory dear, and do all that in us lies to
perpetuate it throughout the country of his birth.
His Imperialism, his Soudan expedition, his
special pleading for England and English institu-
tions both will and must die. These things are
purely temporary, and belong nob to Dalley but
to his age and educational tendencies. The Con-
tingent are possibly acting in all good faith, and
in a gf nuine spirit of admiration for their hero and
originator, but they must learn ere it is too late
that what they propose would be of little use to
the memory of the brilliant and gifted Dalley,
and is calculated rather to perpetuate the tem-
porary and evanescent, if not the sham and
ludicrous, in the mind of a nation anxious to
forget both.
+
Uniform Liars.
One night last week a young Melbourne citizen
was walking along Chapel-street, South Yarra, on
his way to roost. We will accept the statement
of two policemen that this young man was singing
and “ smacking verandah-posts with his walking-
stick.” As the streets were nearly deserted at
the time there were no other eye-witnesses of
these grievous goings-on, but we will take them
for granted. We also willingly believe that the
policemen expostulated with this solitary rioter,
because two policemen always do expostulate
with one man whenever they can catch him quite
alone. If a Melbourne citizen coughs in a public
thoroughfare, the Force calls upon that citizen to
explain his conduct and cautions him not to do it
again—but to resume. This young man was
arrested by those two constables for “ in-
sulting behaviour,” and they appeared before
the Prahran Bench next morning to tell the
whole truth concerning their prisoner’s crime.
But, unhappily, they came into Court without
having arranged the whole truth and their swear-
ing was of a mixed character. No, 1 swore that
the bad young man pushed him into the gutter,
whereas Constable No 2 swore that he was the
victim of this apocryphal violence, and that the
other ‘ ‘ orficer ” wasn’t shoved into the gutter at
all. Again, the first Constable was positive that
his colleague only arrived upon the seene when he
(the f.c.) was “expostulating” with prisoner, but
the second Constable took his Bible oath that he
had already been in the company of his mate for
half an-hour before the tragedy eventuated.
Finally the young man had a swear, and his story
seb forth that the constables, for no reason what-
ever, knocked him into the gutter and arrested
him in consequence. This story the Bench
believed, for they immediately dismissed the case.
Whatever may have been the real facts of this
incident, it is certain that one of the policemen,
or both, told bard black lies. The harmless young
man whom they arrested is privileged to walk
around and state that he was maltreated by two
darned liars, which is the only satisfaction he is
ever likely to get. Those two individuals, either or
both of them, may continue to lie in uniform until
old age incapacitates them from doing the State
further service. Any other class of liar may be
proceeded against for libel, when the lie affects
public or private character and credit. And if
some Australian legislator will concentrate his
towering intellect on the framing of a Police Libel
Bill, we predict for him a nation's gratitude, a
marble statue, and an honoured grave.
*
Holt.
It seems more than probable that ex-banker
Holt’s friends, like those of Alphonseßechet,
have been over-zealous on his behalf. Had they
been less clamorous, or were his position humbler,
it is just possible, taking his ill-health into con-
sideration, that he would now be at large.
Although class interest often procures remission
cf sentences, it is evident that where public atten-
tion, as in this case, has been strongly aroused, it
has an opposite tendency; for at present to act
mercifully towards a man whom imprisonment
has brought to death’s door most assuredly would
be politically injudicious. The relative severity
of punishments can only be estimated by ascer-
taining the capacity of the punished for feeling
and enduring. Five years in gaol would
probably not tell so heavily on an obtuse,
thick-skinned ignoramus as would twelve months
on an intelligent, highly-educated man of san-
guine temperament. Viewed from this stand-
point that Holt’s sentence has been relatively
severe cannot be doubted ; that he will be release d
at an earlier date on that score is highly improb-
able. Class favouritism in criminal cases has been
so obtrusively rampant in New South A ales that
some curled darling of society is bound to be sacri-
ficed on the altar of propitiation, before the public s
outraged sense of equity can be appeased. To all
appearances Holt has been selected as the victim,
and no ram has yet been caught in the thicket.
The latest religious statistics of New South Wales
show that the eternal welfare of that colony is
well looked after. There are altogether 4302
churches, capable of holding 396,378 persons, and
the souls of these are cared for by 1040 registered
ministers and a large number of miscellaneous
teachers. The Church of England has 6 bishops,
324 clergymen, and about 470,000 adherents. The
Catholic Church owns 6 bishops, 272 priests, and
about 288,000 supporters. The Presbyterians
count up 142 ministers and 100,000 followers;
they are split up into the Presbyterian Church of
New South Wales and the Presbyterian Church
of Eastern Australia with several unattached
Presbyterian bodies thrown in. The Methodists
are also split into sections, but their three great
divisions—the Wesleyan, Primitive, and United
Free Methodists —have among them ltiB ministers,
438 churches, and 89,000 adherents. The Congre-
gationalists count up only 19,920 followers divided
among 04 churches and the S.M. Herald. The
Baptists, Particular Baptists, and other Baptists
reckon 10,200 supporters, 33 churches, and 30
ministers, and there are also a large number of
miscellaneous Protestants and others, among
which are reckoned such churches as the Nor-
wegian, Evangelical, Lutheran; English, Inde-
pendent, Independent Congregational, Reorgan-
ised Church cf -Usue, Protestant Episcopal of
U.SA, United Free Gospel, Hebrew Faith,
Welsh, Unitarian, 0 itholic Apostolic, Franco-
Australian Mission, Free Church of England,
Bible Christian, Anglo-Israelite, New Connec-
tion, and the Society of Friends. The Synagogue
in New South Wales only reckons 4589 adherents.
Wit AT is the New South Wales Inspector of
Theatres about ? Either he is not wanted at all
or he ought to be heard from in the course of a
life time. There exists a belief that his hands are
tied. It is said that he has no power to bring an
offender to court. We believe that this is true.
But if it be true, what is the use of the 1 nspector ?
Why was he gazetted and set at large as the
ostensible guardian of theatre-goers’ lives, when
as a matter of fact, theatre-managers may put
people sitting on one another’s heads all the
way up to the ceiling, and he can do nothing?
That arrogant personage the Colonial Secre-
tary reserves to himself the whole duty of
regulating and Proctorising theatre-manage-
ment, and the manner in which he appears to
perform the duty is to stay away in person and
send a substitute with strict injunctions to do
nothing. In Melbourne there is also an Inspector
of Theatres. But if a manager there packs his
house in sardine-tin fashion the Inspector brings
him by the ear to the court and makes him dis
gorge. Either the New South Wales Inspector
should be placed on the same footing or the office
should be abolished.
♦
Mr. James R. Fairfax, senior proprietor of the
Sydney Morning Herali >, should be careful. At
the Annual Session of the Congregational Union
the other day he spoke of the prison yard in
England, where men and women had been incar-
cerated for conscience’ sake, and of Smithfield,
“ from where the spirit of many a Christian
martyr had been carried to heaven.” Tim manag-
ing head of a “ great ” newspaper, the chief end
and aim whereof apparently is to make money,
should not be the mouthpiece of any opinion, right
or wrong. A couple of speeches such as the one
referred to would endanger very seriously the
success of the advertisement department. Hun-
dreds of servant-girls would, if their attention
were drawn to them, take their sixpences to the
rival organ, the Daily Telegraph. And Watkin
Wynne is on the alert for such chances
+
Two members of the British House of Lords are
said to ba scrambling for the gubernatorial shoes
of Baron Carington, viz., Earl Brownlow, whose
baptismal infliction is Adalbert Wellington B.
Gust— the latter being very suggestive if taken in
connection with the fust. He dates from 1844
and is a nephew of the General Gust who was for
so many years chief flunkey to Her Gracious.
He was formerly a lieutenant in the Grenadier
Guards and M.P. for North Salop. The other
suggested Imperialistic nominee is Earl Pembroke
and Montgomery, who at the font was named
George Robert Charles Herbert. He was
barn in 1850 and is of some political note by
heritage. If he took anv real share in writing the
book, “South Sea Bubbles,” attributed to him, he
is a clever man. What The Bulletin and the
• people of New South Wales will want to know is
what voice the Premier of the colony claims in
the selection.
#
A correspondent of the Star (Sydney), “ who
has been there,” writes on “Life in Gaol in New
South Wales,” and in article 4> October 30, allud-
ing to the antediluvian punishment of dark cells,
says—
One man, doing ten years, was charged, on the oath
of an informer, with sending letters to his wife by dis-
charged prisoners, and he was sentenced to six months’
solitary confinement on bread and water, and further to
lose at one stroke . . . the whole term of his remis-
sion of 20 months. He entered upon his imprisonment a
young, strong man, he emerged from the solitary cell
grey-headed, broken-down, a victim to chronic.dyspepsia,
and mad. He had served five years of his sentence, and
earned, by good conduct, the chance of release in three
years and. four months afterwards. Now,—well, he is
there for the term of his natural life.
If this be true, comment is needless. Is there a
HowAjKD in the Parliament of New South Wales
who can for a moment turn aside (from his .earth
hunger, and ask a question upon this statement ?
The story is likely enough to be true. We see
brutality in the court and savagery in the convict-
code and in the decisions of the Executive. Any-
thing may exist in the darkness of the gaol.
In the Commons, BjRADLAUGH lately alluded to
the poverby of the Indian people as “almost inde-
scribable.” The State of Madras, he said, was, ac-
cording to a recent report, composed mostly of
paupers, while a report upon agriculture had esti-
mated the gross income of a peasant and his
family in the best seasons at three pence per day.
Since 1860, there had been 16 famines, in which
no fewer than 12,021,000 poor creatures perished
from starvation. Nor is this all. If we take (he
statistics we find some startling facts staring us in
the face. For instance, the average income of the
native Indian is something under £2 per annum
per head, and from this miserable pit-
tance 6s. taxation is deducted. Yet the an-
nual revenue at the disposal of the British-
Indian Government is 70 millions per annum !
out of which no less a sum than 13 millions goes
to meet the expenses of the Government. Again,
in the Madras Revenue Departmc nt, for instance,
10,000 natives receive £233,000, while in the same
department 109 Europeans receive £128,000. The
average salary of a native is £2O a year, while that
of an European is £l2OO a year! Nearly four
millions sterling per annum is paid to non-resident
Government officials, and altogether about
£18,000,000 of Indian money, wrung from the
people by taxation, is expended in England. One
more item to give an idea of the cost of the Indian
Government. The figure put down for the ex-
penses of bringing Lord Lytton and his family
home from India in the Himalaya was £5827 10s.
Id., or the combined incomes of over 1450 Indian
families for a whole year !
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Everleigh Estate, Perth, West Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans. W .T. Douglas 9C> Bathurst st., Sydney.
Consul versus Compositor.
Dear Bulletin, —The British Lim walks around,
the Eagle of Gaul squawks, and the baud begins
to play. In other words, Hon. G. Fisher, N.Z.
Minister for Education and Consul for Italy, and
the Yicomte Jouffray D’Abbans (Jeff. Dabbon,
Fisher calls him), N.Z. Consul for France,
have lately been having a Satan of a time.
M.M. Cury and Gasparini, of New Caledonia,
chevaliers d’lndustrie (French for K.C.M.G.),
stole a little boat there and sailed out
into the Nevermore, S.E. by S. 'i N.,
provisioned with it decayed sardine-tin-opener
and half a French handcuff. Just as they
were contemplating one another in the aspect of
free lunch they were salvaged by a passing hooker
and carried to Auckland, N.Z. There they were
arrested, released, and; by order of the Governor,
prompted by J. Dabbon, re arrested and conveyed
secretly to Wellington.
• • •
Jervois: profession, Governor and evangelical
engineer; tendencies aristocratic, tempered with
leanings towards muffin-worries and Berlin-wool
work, would have made any superior person
like a Vicomte a present of such a small
matter as two alleged escaped convicts, only
he was suddenly called away to Melbourne
Exhibition. His deputy, Prenderga,st, C.J., re-
leased Cury, surrendering Gasparini to Dabbon,
who, borrowing from the N.Z. Government an Irish
detective and making him for the job as much a
gendarme of France as the size of his boots and
the breadth of his brogue permitted, despatched
him (saloon) with Gasparini (steerage) to Sydney
en route for New Caledonia. Whether Gasparmi
was swallowed by a whale, or swallowed a whale
which disacreed with him, or was gulped down by
Dunedin Fish, M.H.R., also a passenger, cr
landed headed-up in a cask labelled, like a colonial
bishop, “Returned Empty,” will probably never be
known until the sea gives up its dead maybe, not
then. Anyway, on arrival of steamer at Sydney,
there was a by bilge-water-soaked, lachrymose,
red-rusted, ammunition booted bobby, but—no
prisoner. These facts are known to all ; the follow*
img are not.
* *
It was when the news of .this escape first struck
Jeff Dabbon that the French bird may be said to
have squawked. After letting go a series of high
toned Parisian damns, and tearing his not too
numerous hair, J.D. became placid enough to
write Governor Jervois an astounding despatch,
broadly accusing Fisher of prigging the prisoner.
Fisher, as Italian Consul (Gasparini was Italian),
had attended the extradition proceedings, and had
.even spoken to Gasparini. Moreover, was not the
Minister a man of the people—a composeetorre ?
Bah ! Likewise .s acr-r-r-e ! also goddam ! What
more would you have ? The serious sapper,
Jervois, not unwilling to smite Democracy in the
person of Fisher, forwarded this graphic lunacy to
the Premier. Fisher first proved by the testi-
mony of a cloud of independent witnesses the
utter absurdity of every insinuation and allega-
tion made by Dabbon, and then remarked
incidentally that the French nobleman war
swollen with irascible pomposity, the result
of a diet of roasted peacocks. Jervois, realis-
ing that Fisher had him by the scalp-lock,
suggested the Minister should withdraw
his defence —embodied in the sultriest sort of a
minute; that they should all embrrace, swear
eternal friendship, and that Jeff should kill for
his dear jFisherre the fatted veal. It was at this
stage the Lion walked around. The accusation,
said the Hon. George, had gone all over the world
the defence should have equal publicity. And
so the entire correspondence goes scooting to the
Imperial authorities, diplomatic notes may shortly
be expected to ,fiy free, the “ sacred bonds of
un ( ion ” are drawn tighter, and once more in the
history of ,the world the accursed canaille triumph
and the old nobility get left in a hole badly ! It
is uncertain whether Jervois will be attainted for
high-treason, or Dabbon guillotined, or the French
declare war. In the meantime N.Z. has mobilized
her army, consisting of a man, a boy, and an old
bombadier, and practises it in turning out o’ nights
to repel an invader whenever the old bombadier
doesn’t fall asleep and forget to call the remainder
of the host—which is generally.—Yours, Ovi.
At the recent Campbelltown (N.SW.) Court
sittings, Judge M‘Eabland secured the cit-
tomary pair c f white kid gloves, there being no
criminal cases for trial. This appears to be one of
the blackest instances of ingratitude on record.
A splendid courthouse, with every convenience
and all the latest improvements, has just been
erected at a cost of £20,000, arid yet not a single
individual in the whole of the Campbelltown dis-
trict was patriotic enough to thump his wife into
pulp, or steal a neighbour’s goat, or brain a Salva-
tion Harmy drummer, or do any other trifling act
which would have sent the new courthouse off
with a whooping start and thereby prevented the
stigma which now rests upon it When tnis rosy
little job was proposed it was pcinted out in The
Bulletin that a 30s. pair of stocks would be quite
sufficient for the cc rrective wants of Campbelltown
in addition to being a neat and appropriate Cen-
tennial tribute to the good old colonial days, but
the. Campbelltown electorate returns two staunch
supporters of the “ good and pure Government ”
—Messrs. Garrett and M'Court— and the fir, t
duty of a, Government is to be good to its friends.
♦
By what rule of thumb are Australian Governor-
ships distributed ? Sir Henry Loch, whose only
previous governorship was that of the little Isle of
Man, got Victoria with £10,000; while Sir Her-
cules Kobinson, who had New South Wales at
£7OOO, went to New Zealand at five, and is said to
be going to Queensland at the same salary as he
got in Maoriland. Western Australia, which
gives the smallest salary of all—£2soo—is to be
given to a “nobleman” who had a governorship
with a salary of attached.


The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
i -alia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
The Referee.
The Bulletin is the only paper printed in
Sydney which tipped Mentor right out for the
Melbourne Cup. When we say that The
Bulletin tipped Mentor we don’t mean that it
aaid Mentor would probab'y win if something else
didn’t happen ; we mean that The Bulletin in its
kjst issue devoted a whole column to Mr. Edmund
Fisher’s excellent verses averring that there was
nothing else in the race but Mentor aforesaid.
What a satire is our tipster’s success on the
prophets, of the regular sporting prints—on the
downy gentlemen who know all about it, and get
up at daylight to, prowl round the racecourses in
red comforters ! The race resulted —Mentor, 1:
Tradition, 2• The Yeoman, 3,
• * *
The N.S.W. horses made amends for their
Caulfield failures by annexing three rich prizes
a handicap on the first day at Fiemijngton.
As a preliminary sweetener, Australian Peer,
blooming as a rose, beat a splendid field of horses
for the Melbourne Stakes. A better-looking lot,
all round, never started for this race, and the re
suit was so far in keeping with appearances that a
shrewd old sport offered to take long odds that the
three leaders—Peer, Mentor, and Tradition—filled
tjhe Cup places. But ’ere this appears the wisdom,
or otherwise, of that old sport will be a matter of
history. Anyway, the Stakes form bore out The
Bulletin’s statement that no horses seemed more
likely for the big event than Mentor and Tradition,
the latter showing a marvellous improvement in
condition since Caulfield, Which reminds us that
it is only three weeks ago since Melbourne Spobts-
man published an oracular article, proving to its
own satisfaction that Tradition was a common
animal, incapable of winning a selling-plate.
• * •
The Sydney talent completed their picnic
by going nap on Plutarch for the Coburg Stakes.
The blue and white (with Hales not up on this
occasion) pulled them through cleverly, and the
pilgrims from our dear old mother colony—ahem !
—departed with pieces. The Baron left off “ a
bit in,” and his yawn was conspicuously absent
throughout the very biggest Derby Day in Aus-
tralian annals.
* • »
The V.11.C. authorities stick to their old
systam of dragging out a day’s racing to unneces-
sary length. As this promotes an extra liquor-
traffic, the Blue Ribbon people might do worse
tha a agitate fora curtailing of the intervals set
apart for “ seeing a man.”
* * *
N.Z. has won her first Maribyrnong
Plate with Necklet, but although this great
two-year-old scramble was timed to be nearly the
fastest on record, the youngsters were generally
regarded as a rather indifferent lot. Necklet is an
exceptionally compact and precocious juvenile for
one of Musket’s stock, yet the filly, as also
Rudolph, compared unfavourably with several
that finished in their rear. Necklet’s dam,
Locket, however, never threw a bad ’un. Mon-
talto, Lady Agnes, Prince Consort, and others
look better worth backing for future events.
* * *
Then Mr. James White won his fourth
Victorian Derby, because Carbine’s jockey didn’t
know enough, and Tom Hales was conquering
hero for the fifth time in his useful career. Judg-
ing from the demonstration on stand, hill, and flat
the old combination victory was about as popular
ai ever, although Ensign was not a strong public
fancy at the last. Here, too, was a case in which
unbiassed judgment was at fault, for Mr. White’s
gelding would never be picked as the beau-ideal of
a Derby winner. Both Carbine and Melos, par-
ticularly the latter, have the pull over him in that
respect, while neither of them strikes one as
coining up to Australian Peer’s standard. It is
worth noticing that the time, considering favour-
able state of ground, was slow, and as Melos’
time for the A.J.C. Derby was a trifle slower,
there are reasonable grounds for assuming that
this season’s three-year-olds might be better. But
the convincing Cup has, at time of writing, yet to
be run.
* * •
Ifc is an open question whether, after all,
Larry Foley is not, at this moment, the best of
Australian boxers if it were only worth the
veteran’s while to spread himself at the work.
E ven in these days of scorching heat and hydro-
phobia scares, Larry continues to welt all-comers
for mere amusement, and, on a sultry morning, he
wdl drift into his athletic hall and demolish three
or four brawny boxers without turning a hair. It
ii all in the day’s work, and when a fighting
gentleman of Bft.—more or less—comes into the
brr and explains that he wants badly to
ba pounded, Foley takes him peacefully into
the back premises and pounds him. Generally
five or six of the stranger’s friends come along to
seB the proceedings and express a desire to take a
hrnd, and then Foley pounds them also, and very
f-u* of them get a chance to land him in return.
One hot morning, last week, the seance was
opened by a lengthy gentleman of great mus-
cular development and considerable science who
wished to take a lesson—in reality, he wanted
t) whale the whole habitable globe. He towered
lvgh above the ex-champion, and hit out straight
a nd with the vigour of a battering ram, but every
time he struck out his opponent had stepped
s'.owly and softly aside an inch or two to look
;• 1 something else, and while leaving had
s nitten the big scientist on three places at once.
’ did it with a good-humoured smile as if he
didn’t want to hurt anybody, and then the large
athlete would get excited and come down like the
wolf on the fold, but he never seemed to get any-
w lere in particular, and when he crashed through
tre air with both fists at once, Foley would stop
him with one hand and flick him quietly on the
eir with the other. After a quarter of an hour of
this the big stranger was replaced by a smaller
man of more professional exterior, who came on
with a confident smile and got badly left. His
strong point consisted in getting in under
the veteran’s guard, but he had less success
at getting out again, and after a while it
seemed to occur to him that he was being played
with. He got vicious after this and settled down
to steady vigorous work at his antagonist’s head,
but the proprietor of the premises moved his head
out of the way and in a fatherly style rolled him
over on the floor. Jack Molloy followed
when the capsized hero had removed himself, and
dashed at his opponent with the evident hope of
finding him tired and short of wind, but a quarter
of an hour reduced the new man to temporary
ruins and he retired leaving Holey still uninjured
One or two more visitors then sailed in and left dis-
comfited, and a gentleman who claimed to be
champion swimmer urged Lawrence to swim him
any distance for anything. The offer was ac-
cepted, but the swimmer didn’t turn up again.
Altogether, there are not many laurels to be
gained by hitting the ex-champion, and the ease
with which he put Fogarty out of his premises a
tew months ago, and caused that man of muscle to
lie down and call for the police, suggests that the
fighting pilgrim who visits Sydney would do well
to pound something that is less likely to hit back
again.
• • .
In a private letter Peter Jackson said he
had no difficulty in beating Godfrey, his only
trouble beiog as to whether he would have to
knock the darkey’s head clean off before he gave
* • •
Three months ago Ivemp was styled by his
admirers “the fastest man that ever sat in a boat.”
1 0-day the same people are pitching the same
fairy tale about Searle, and were he defeated at
Brisbane the same exasperating old cackle would
issue from their grovel-traps about his conqueror.
The kmg is dead, long live the king.
* .
The recent international ride match was
Major Strong’s Irish team , who scored a
total of 620; Lieut. Cohen’s Australian team, who
made being second. The English team made 0
P? 1 ** 4 ® re t} \ al ? the Irish at 5 °P yards, but fell off
ci e ,’P° ards range, their total being 6QB. The
bandies were last with 586. For the winners
J ° h “ son made to p £ eore with 84, A. B.
Lribson, JN.B., being a close second with 83.
* *
The winner of a certain Tatteraall’a Con-
sultation sweep valued at £4500 found his good
fortune hard to bear. After paying all scores and
duly considering the claims of the charities, he
bade farewell to society and developed into a
hopeless drunk; ultimately he died of suffocation.
*• ' •
VV Ith reference to the trophy promised by
a , y y dne y newspaper proprietary to the sculler
who shall hold the world’s championship for three
years consecutively, it may be remarked that the
oner involves a magnificent advertisement. There
is a strong chance that the trophy will be knocking
round the river for many a year to come.
* * •
Patay Parslow, the moat renowned
carbine shot in N.Z., takes part in the Centennial
firing matches at Melbourne.
* * m
Two men drank beer against each other
for a wager in a South Melbourne hotel one night
a week or two back, and the loser collapsed after
drinking 31 pewters. This was a draughts tourna-
ment.
* * *
By disqualifying Gorry for three months
Y-A-.T.C. and V.R.C. people failed to express
a decided opinion touching the manner in which
that growing youth rode Bravo for the Caulfield
Gorry either intentionally fouled certain
other horses, in which case his sentence is ridicu-
lously light, or his conduct was merely rash and
injudicious, calling for nothing more than a repri-
mand. The big-wigs’ deliberations were appar-
ently swayed by paragraphs stating that Gorry
threw away the race ” (a very old theory in
connection with the riding of beaten horses), and
also by unprofessional stories to the lad’s disad-
vantage. He has contrived to make himself the
most unpopular jockey in Australia among his
diminutive brethren.
* * *
There was a young man of Mentone
Who got the straight tip from a crony ;
But after the race
Well, he didn’t say “ grace ”
For a bookmaker snaveiled his “ pony.”
° • «
If the big Sydney sweep becomes an annual
institution the Melbourne Cup race will be ham-
pered by the presence of a number of inferior
horses, whose owners have their stake paid by
ticket-holders, with the further inducement of a
few thousands, to nothing on the winning chance.
Thus the likelihood of a true-run race, free from
jostles and blocks, will be lessened, because a
considerable proportion of the field will reckon
upon a scrimmage to introduce a further element
of luck into an always uncertain game. There is
no reason why next year shouldn’t bring forth a
£lOO,OOO sweep, with considerable prizes to each
starter. In such a case we might expect 50 horses
—3O of them ‘duffers’—to start for the Melbourne
Cup. And so the new idea would work for
two or three years, until owners declined to
run their best class animals and the Cup fell from
its high estate. This must be looked to.
Searle, “champion sculler of the world,”
upon the stage of Melbourne Royal one
night last week to show how little intelligence,
fiavoir faire. and natural grace are required for
] >ushing a boat through the water quicker than
the small percentage of mankind who devote their
lives to that elevating pursuit. It is nothing more
than honest truth to say that Searle, as he ducked
his acknowledgments of a people’s plaudits,
was a dumb sermon against the idolatry
of bone and sinew. There have been row-
ing champions who looked as though they
might earn their daily bread in any other
line of commerce, but young Searle is
not built that way. However, he probably pos-
sesses a feelin’ ’art, for after Charles Warner
had concluded a lame oration by giving him a
diamond ring, Searle wagged his head in the
direction of the tragedian, and said he was a
kmd gentleman. After which the conquering
hero remarked that it was his first time in Mel-
bourne, and he never thought he was agoing to
baat Peter Kemp so soon, but now he’d got it he
meant to keep it, and he was Champion of the
World. When it was all over, the audience, who
had waited to witness this glorious event, ap-
peared to feel their position rather keenly.
ar k Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire
The Melbourne Cup.
[BY TELEGRAPH.]
(FROM OUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.)
Riding down to Flemingbon behind a locomotive
entails two distinct tribulations on the seeker
after pleasure : firstly, the fierce struggle to get a
ticket for the tram, secondly, the violent endeavour
bo get a tram for his ticket. For many years
these have been harrowing features of Ihe day’s
enjoyment, but the united troubles of all former
occasions in Cup annals were as a drop in the
ocean of suffering we endured at Spencer-street
station this blessed morning. Such a rush for
tickets never was ; such conflicts on the platform
rver may be again. Soft willowy females and
gallant gentlemen fought for the carriage -handles
with a ferocity quite foreign to Burke and
„ rIV’V. a , gallantl gentleman we fought
al^ e bit ourselves. We finally landed in a com-
partment full of fragments of broken-up family
parties. Thirteen separate members of the fair
sex were wringing their bands because those
clearest to them, were not nearest to them,
a “ d . an , apoplectic bookmaker appeared to be
ff n v COnCern !i l for the safet y '< bis missing
clerk. AN e spent the journey down to Flemington
11 b ?, cons<de Ibis ponderous sufferer. At
11. d(), exactly 40 minutes before the first race, we
Ecene J to find ilj already deliciously
j 1 ‘ i. be grand stand proper was creaking
and groaning under a load of humanity, mixed in
ir!b? a r °f7 bl T S of one evain of solid to fifteen
grams of lovely woman- -rather cross grains some
of them-and not lovely after all. Just here is
i to c record , an apparent absence of
Manv JT k fr i?" 1 .i’b 1 ® historic demonstration.
Ep L f ( u fceSt ' red fillies ” in Melbourne
f.nmr^rUo!i y f the , anticipated crush and those who
competed were located in the carriage-paddock
vicinity. After perceiving that
W rff S ° Vl CCU|,ied by a gorgeous and back-
block sorb of humanity who wore home-built
and breathed harder than is usual in the
in g w Q f we spent a peaceful time
rnn J lng the s f lt , of the earth drive by the
Z d kJ V V° ne bas Pianted his footmark on
lan nds of , tlme arrived in something
raDgmg from a drag-and-four to a one-horse shay.
Ihe pawky James Service, fresh from the
ba£™«k« han u ds ' - bl;ou^ht ' his womenkind in a
barouche and pair. A party of distinguished
anrfilf 1118 had C c har <; ered a species of hay-cart,
a £ d tbr ee successfu l land-sharks had sunk a por-
W«° f h K r lI1 o gotten gams in the hiring of one
able Thi f ? ar ° n f Poke’s drag was notice-
ab n „ f » th fact t l hab Au3br alia’s pioneer noble
somewhat nervous, had resigned the
} h A fa X°" r ° f hls son Rupert. Then the vice-
regal crowd drove up the course, in imitabion-
Ascot style, and dismounted in front of the box
lawn'r r°v, Rl oyaßy- They marched across the
inTaJ amS ° f God Save our Gracious,”
vpfipmi, f A Ur p€l - ons cheered with spasjnodic
vehemence. An ancient and eyil-lopking loyalist
off hn X fc ho «, ted “Mtßude to take their
off bub the multitude kept their heads rever-
ently covered, and this portion of the usual Cup
day s rejoicings was of a fizzling character. The
House party lacked splendour. Lady
Loch looked sad in sad sage-green, and the two or
three ladies who accompanied her were entirely
hen ? lue Mountain won bne
puh m! 6 C ac ' J -’ and from that time forth the books,
did the heaviest post-betting on record. The pad -
dock was well-mgh impassable for backers, who
i aDy pric ® they could get, and also for layers,
who kept on getting round on the book,” until
the frequent revolutions made them dizzy. We
° rt - y u WagerB ? n Car lyonin five minutes,
a ? d , ad ltl ; one miserable-looking little owner
ofa large broken nose—deservedly broken, we have
no doubt Meanwhile Tourbillon had pulled off
LninTS .and the hons who did nob bet were
tanS Th P a f tte “ tlon t 0 cold Pie and similar
vanities. The refreshment contractor traded away
bis last and most venerable fowl by 2.15 pm
£-t y after which he parted with his final slice of
and his last turkey-bone and sab down
to weep because there was no more tea and coffee
to dispose of for a consideration. Strong drinks
held out against the enemy, however. All the
best people, as already hinted, took their
vibtles in the carnage-paddock. They sat outside
inside and underneath their respective equipages.
sat °u baskets, camp-stools and their native
heath, and they consumed for all they were worth
, u “ d £ tbe new Maribyrnong stand, m rather at
he back of it. Things looked especially picnicy
and pleasant. Here alone was rest out of the
bu/lv-burly, and far from the howling of the odds
lawn > a “ d f>h! what a falling-off was there!
mfsflnt- TK y th i afc Btyle was cons Picuously not
present. The only women worth a second glance
were stage divinities. Nellie Stewart was more
than usually delicious in an airy, creamy Galatea
1 ? d ®f get-up ; little Patbie Brown was decidedly
splendid and a few society lights looked “nice as
oMoL n °Th dy dld the laWn afber the manner
SKt. £ hls was 80 noticeable that the band
played “The Heart Bowed Down” while horses
were being saddled for the great event, so we too
heaved a sigh and made for the birdcage, a charge of
as e r.emT g WhlCh ® r \ cl ? sure ke P h R about aiselecb
“ a ° sery5 ery hollda ys- The main paddock
f P^_' ked; ad the stands were in a worse state
of conges ion than ever, but the birdcage had
hardly anybody m it. We surveyed each horse
shnvfiH 11 dellb erately and without being
shoved, and while we feasted our eyes upon the
shapely proportions of number 8, Mentor it
dawned upon us that The Bulletin had pub-
lished a poem proving conclusively that the
Whiet r a l a 1 b ° Ub to c win ‘ We noticed Mr. James
WhitB look kind of sad like at Mentor, and we
h?m r a V nH ? at Donald Wallace ™e up to
him and advised him to “ have a bit on. A few
O^Brlen W nni,f ebty F rs ' Wallace wa » telling Mick
U Brien not to win by more than 100 yards, while
into r. ,le f V he ’“F? ° f »W 3
see into the future and knew what ib would
Tt lo ° ke ? prom i sing ’ somehow. The
nr hf b I? S are alwa ys inspired from above,
”J B f' ° r the y come straight from somewhere,
and, therefore we decided to back Mentor for the
p^ ce ° f ° ne . of our estates. We went forth from
the paddock m blissful confidence, laid out the
1 tetter portion of our landed property at 7 to 1
and looked around at the spectators. The scene so far
beggared description that we will not wrestle with
impossibility. Let any man who has attended
Melbourne Cup and did not attend
b ? , leb bj m multiply his recollections by two
and deduct a trifle for exaggeration. As the
horses galloped past the stand with Arsenal
A nnS e \ aD ’ *. the , roar beat all records.
Another shout proclaimed that Spade Guinea
had put her shoulder out. A lull in the
a^° n n J’ ac f ry of 81 ? nam ? B at once , a tremendous
clappmg of hands for quite ten seconds before the
posb was reached, and Mentor had done as it was
written in this paper. We fell upon our kn™
behind a bookmaker where nobody could see us
and solemnly blessed The Bulletin. We
wondered how there could be any poverty
and suffering in the world while such tipi
were obtainable for 6d. We shook hands with
our friends and ourselves, and said this was a
beeyootiful cup, and they mostly agreed with the
sentiment. In point of fact the biggest and
plainest dressed crowd ever brought together on
the one great Australian day had a good time.
4r aa i Ij k we rop a tear of sympathy for Mr
west, the straight-running and singularly unlucky
owner of a grand Tradition.
To Champion Searle.
BY AN EX-CHAMPION
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Champion Henry Ernest Searle,
Lend your ear, I’d drop a pearl
Of wisdom in its convoluted fold.
List —draw nearer—to my patter*
Eor this, Sonny, is a matter
That concerns you more than all the ‘-oof” you
hold. J
You are young, my boy, and plucky •
Have good friends, you have been lucky ;
See that fortune doesn’t turn your youthful head
-t or, e en should you lick Creation,
You aint fit to boss a nation,
And you couldn’t put Pete Jackson off to lied.
Sculling clearly is your mission,
And your stock-in trade’s condition ,
bo play vigour up for every coin it’s worth •
See that every time you “collar ”
You invest each nimble dollar
In a terrace or a strip of mother-earth
Yes, don’t fail, my lad to “ sock it,”
,,-Y' ° ur friend will be your pocket •
When you re beaten folks will worship him who
won,
And if you are hungry, needy,
They will leave you poor and seedy,
And will trample on their favourite when “ done.”'
Hark, my friend ! Look with suspicion
On the verbose politician;
He always slobbers o’er the cove that’s “ fust •”
He would give a long oration
( >’er your grave with much elation,
But will shun, you like aleper: when you’re “bust.”
Ever flee the giddy syren,
’Ware the man-traps that environ
Each lucky, young and handsome lusty swain.
Don t drink Cham.,” don’t dainties gobble,
Such indulgence, is a hobble,
And the pampered man is hand—ask Brett- to-
ta/ain.
Wide berbh give to blustering bookies
i or suspicion of a “ crook ” is
Destructive to all chance of lasting Fame •
X ou re assuredly a “ gonner, ” ’
Good-bye friends, and banished honour
' U name e * der ‘ ” hold a mortgage o’er your-
Neither now, nor when you’re failing
J ake to stagger-juice-retailing;
Don t support, or be supported, by a pub*
I he best man that ever floated
Ip-when sodden, pimply, bloated,
But a liquorish receptacle for grub.
Keep aloof from cards, dice-shaking,.
Muscle-sapping, system-raking;
Don t spiel away your health, get soon to bed =
JLhough you re fast as river packet
b lesh and blood won’t stand the racket,
Y ° U Necf 6 bSCk t0 th ° Se behind ~ ask Yankee
Would you see the world, dear sonny,
And make heaps of ruddy money ?
Circumnavigate the globe with skiff and oar •
Now you ve licked our fastest cattle,
Leave the land of gum and wattle, ’
beek Dame fortune where the chances are galore.. 1 *
Then, returning full of vigour,
With a purse of decent figure,
(loa-fatmiDg on your little bit of land •
Wed some hearty, country beauty
Grip the plough and do your duty,’.
A second Champion Searle may come to haiull
This is sound advice, my chicken,
* rom a rooster who’s been pickin’
Wisdom up in worldly, watery paths- by grains
And his griffin very straight is,
But you’re welcome to it gratis,
Only use it, and he won’t regret his pains.
.* ~„T hls lsn ° t exactly The BultjEtto's advice to Searle lei-
it be remembered. We would counsel the young champion
on , his own dunghill with \he atlvan
tagea afforded by climate and troops ofi friends.
One hundred and thirty-five vehielea fol-
ey ‘ ' em “ S UB **-»**.
More troubles are looming for the tired-
E^? lre ,' , The sapping interest of
Glasgow has suddenly been seized with a burst oft
genuine rehgion and Irishmen, who
used to hump bales and boxes on the wharves
have been sacked to make room for 400 Prodestan 1
bhoys from Belfast. The Catholics feel bad about
this, and a convulsion of 800 men wid shticks is-,
looked for at an early date.
When Beach avowed hia intention to retire
scuUing, the writer gave a list of champions-
who had retired,” only to come on the scene
again to suffer defeat, and it seems Beach is likelv.
to be added to the list.” That Beach will really-
retire after this match is not at all likely, for
should Hanlan win, he will want another slap ah
the Canadian which, by the way, he will never
get),) and should he be found to have retained his*
old pace and staying power, it is almost a cer-
tamty. he wiU be matched against Searle to trv
and bring,the championship back to the “stable »*
which has so long retained it.
Champion Searle would do well to make
all the hay he can while his sun is shining Dr
Grersung, of Vienna, has just succeeded in trans-
planting a nerve from a rabbit to a man All he
has to do now is to go a step further, and trans
pJant the muscle of a Clydesdale stallion to a man
and then we will have a lager-swigging Yarman
professor slipping down here and pulling over the
champion course before our crack scullers have
fairly started. And this is not all. Dr. Gersung
may succeed m transplanting the stomach of a
hog to the interior of another countryman, and
then away goes our champion porridge-eating
honour as well And, again, still urging on h£
wild career, he may be able to transplant the
brains of mules to the heads of men, and then
these mule-headed men will be able to circumvent
our ruling statesmen by reason of their superior
f , n ' po , wer > and the , whole nation will finally
drift under German rule entirely. y


£JOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Australia.
Immense Success of the Tobogganing Kink !
Tin New Sensation. Open Daily.
Entirely superseding all Inventions of the kind.
The MAGNIFICENT SWIMMING BATIIS
Cpen for Ladies and Gentlemen from (i a.m. to 10 p.m.
The Wonderful PERFORMING SEALS and Finest Collec-
tion of Marine Curiosities in Sydney !
To-morrow ! Prince of Wales’ Birthday.
Gigantic Holiday Fete! Grand Variety Entertainment!
The Britannia Brass Band. — -
Dancing under the Dome in the Great Hall. Hot and
Cold Water Free. Skating! Skating 1
Sunday fat—lke Ptsilar Afternoon Concert,
Popular Artistes. Popular Music.
The Quintette String Band will perform on the Law
during the afternoon.
Prices ae Usual, KST Frequent Trams.
A. E. BTOPFORD, Manager.
Sundry Shows.
Theater Royal. —“ The Miner’s daughter” p. 14.
HRr Majesty’s. —“ Lights o’ London ” ~
Criterion. —‘ ‘ The Butler ” ; . ~
A look of stifled grief and pain pervaded
Sydney Criterion on the first night of “ Th'e
Butler,” and after a patient trial that overrated
flunkey fell hideously flat. There is no meaning
in him and no purpose: he is utterly unable to
furnish any plausible excuse for his conduct in
cumbering the earth’s exhausted crust; he has no
object in life and no appreciation of the higher
destinies of the human species, and in every pos-
sible way he is a failure. He is corpiilent and
given bo oily emotion, and now and then he is
plaintively bounceable in a meek and depressed
fashion, like a sheep clad in armour and waving a
sword on the battlements of a besieged fortress.
At other times he suggests a comic overgrown
cow with a carpet-bag, drinking hock in a green
pasture and beside still waters, and he sits up on
end and hoorays with tears on the top of this re-
volving globe’s flowery mound. The point at issue
through three dreary acts is whether he shall be
allowed to elope with the cook or not; sometimes
he thinks he will and at other times he feels as if
he won t, and up till 10 o’clock it is an open ques-
tion whether the slavey may not be compelled to
fly alone and baa hermit for the balance of her
existence. But at last the butlet gathers up his
accumulated fat and hies him away on
the wings of love at a walking pace in a
slow cab, perspiring profusely as he goes. When
hfe returns, the circumstances connected with
the event give a serious shock to an old noble
man to whom the domihant flunkey has previously
administered some horse-lotion oh the sofa, ahd he
shakes his two claws in the air and coughs, whiled
bilious glare shines in his eye—an organ which
came over with the Conqueror. Several other
faint and broken backed complications are propped
up in the middle of the great desert of “The
Butler,” and the audience are invited to consider
the case of a girl named Anne, whose father —the
horse-lotion individual above referred to- -wants
her to give her heart to the other fellow ; also they
are called upon to view the faebs relating to
another girl who has been brought up on charity,
and who festoons herself in a white frock over the
bosom of the fellow alluded to herein, and
states that she will act as previously stated
or else go cut as dry-nurse to an infant.
A gentleman named Hilton who never before ap-
peared at this theatre, takes a prominent part in
the toil of dragging the dramatic hearse alcng;
according to the bills he has been absent from Aus-
traliafor four years, and with unobtrusive franknr ss
we state s s our fixed opinion on present data that he
should have stayed away 400 years longer at the
lowest estimate. Mr. G. W. Anson does all that
man can do with the abjectly hollow character of
David Trot, and four ladies —Misses Ida Herbert,
Annie Taylor, Emma Temple, and Bessie Major
do good service in shoring up four separate hunks
of empty stupidity. Mr. Robert Inman also
makes a brave effort to be interesting as a lover
who has only to drivel and smile, and Messrs.
Brown and Corlesse have to drivel and leave the
smile out. Mr. Chichester doesn’t even get a fair
chance to drivel, and the rest is a hollow void.
## # #
A email audience, which was obviously
soured through being unable to get away to the
Cup and shriek at that vessel of dissipation,
assembled on Monday night in Sydney Academy,
where Messrs. Moynham and Sullivan have put
on more minstrelsy to aggravate a tired land.
There is too much minstrel already in N.S. Wales,
and if the country gets a lot more of it someone's
gore will be on bis own hat. Beyond this there is
nothing of any importance to be said. No one
has written any new minstrel jokes sjrce
the days when Cain first went down into
an uninhabited sheol and felt lonely and
deserted on top of the stove, and conse-
quently the Moynham-Sullivan combination
pound away at the same old chestnuts which
aggravated the ancient Egyptians in the days when
they knocked spots off the land of Judah. A
quantity of decent singing is supplied by Messrs.
F. England, Clay, Robinson, Moynham, Misses
Fanny Saroni, Carey, and others, and the per-
formance concludes with that disappointing thing
which is called an “Olio.” Why it is called an
olio we never could make out, but we trust that
there is no olio in the future state which we are
all going to.
♦# # #
The “ Rajah,” which was somehow post-
poned last week, will be placed on the stage at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) next Saturday, and along
with it will appear Miss Kate Bishop, who has
been missed for several long months by her many
admirers. “Uncle Tom’s CabiD,” with Carrie
Swain as Topsy, will be resurrected on the same
evening at the Royal, and though the public had a
surfeit of the abject praying African on the
occasion of his last development in Sydney, it is
probable they will roll up once more for the
sake of the iittle nigger girl who pervades the
drama, leaving a path of ceaseless smash behind
her. But they won’t come to see Uncle Tom
that crushed Baptist has long since ceased to draw
in these colonies. Two more minstrel companies
hang on persistently at the Alhambra and the
Ilaymarket Music Hall, the latter show being
considerably better than it was when it used to be
worse; and the rest of the theatrical world has
gone to look at the Cup.
## * *
At the Adelaide Royal, “ Mankind ” has
brought about a pleasant reaction, as the business
has shown a vast improvement. This happy fact
may be accounted for partly because there are no
other shows open in the peaceful city, but it
is principally owing to the highly creditable
manner in which the drama is mounted and
acted. Bland Holt is well supported by his
amiable wife, and by Blanche Lewis, Mabel
Tracey, H. N. Douglas, Glover, Hans Phillips,
Bill Holloway's frater, &c. “ Alone in London ”
will be the next sensational morsel to digest.
* • * *
It was an evil, inauspicious hour when
Mr. Martin Simonsen engaged three male
amatoora to drag his English opera company down
into the dust of contempt. And after they had
killed “The Rose of Castile” Mr, Simonsen
shoved the worst of these atrocities into “ Car-
men ” with painful results. For a few nights the
raw stranger stood around in a Guy Fawkes get-
up and growled out his Italian with a marked
colonial twang, but at last the opera began to
wither under his scorching breath. Then the
leading basso consented to replace this awful ex-
ample of misplaced confidence, and things have
visibly improved in consequence.
*# * »
Mr. Cecil Ward, the Tom Jones of
“Sonhia,” hurt his foot last week, and, after
dragging that swollen extremity about the Bijou
tor two more nights, he was forced to retire for
repairs. In the meantime, Mr. Boucicault has
changed from Squire Western to Tom Jones, and
the latter character isn’t quite so heavy with sighs
ds it was before the unfortunate foot incident.
Mr. Boucicault’s capacity for playing a tall
character with a respectable amount c>f realism
amounts to’ genius.
Says an English paper : —Mr. John Minnie
Palmer Rogers has written to a contemporary
stating that “ No press man as a press man enters
our home.” Personally, I congratulate the press,
but where is “ our home ? ”
# * # *
The proprietor of Tussand’a wax-works
has called a meeting of his creditors.
Melbourne Shows.
Derby, Cup, and Oaks, and Steeple
Fill the city full of people,
All which people, soon or later,
Patronise the gay the-a-ter ;
Let us then in rhythm lightly
Tell of pieces playing nightly,
That the winner and the loser,
Person male, or fair peruser,
May a picker be or chooser.
Tell of how artistic aliens
(Thereby meaning choice It-a-lians)
At the Opera House are charmin’
Ears and eyes alike, in “ Carmen.”
Prima donna new and tony,
Tenor sweet, and Pimazzoni,
Each in burn, or voices blended,
Sing as if their lives depended
On the issue—Verdict splendid.
Tell of how intensely loyal
Subjects rush the roomy Royal,
Where a play, of which the title
Is a part that’s very vital,
Ciams the house bo nook and corner—
Happy hit for Charley Warner !
’Tis the old, familiar story—
Hero brave and v illain gory
Intermixed with Britain’s glory.
Hearken, while the merry bard, O*
Sings a verse about “Mikado,”
Booming at the bright Princess’s.
Lovely gals and gorgeous dresses —
Biting wit and music clever —
Going almost strong as ever.
If thou subject Cupid to art,
See this show and get a new heart.
Leaving one with Nellie Stewart.
THE LATE KONG MENG,
A PROMINENT VICTORIAN CHINESE MERCHANT.
PHOTO. BY JOHNSTONE & O’SIIANNESSEY, MELBOURNE.
Once again we strike our lyre
Tq the praise of dear “ Sophia,
At the Bijou seen in splendour—
Acted well by either gender.
N’er a sporb would use a cartridge
To destroy so good a Partridge—
Never yet did lover loafy
(Such as Jones) secure a trophy
Rarer than the graceful Sophy.
Be a woman, wife, or spinster,
She must see “ The World Ag’insb Her ;
Dampier’s lesson for the ladies
At the Alexandra played is.
Down in Swanston-street’s a circus
Run by Wirbhs, the wonder-workers ;
At the Vie. are niggers knowing,
And St. George’s Hall is growing
Fuller while “ The Brook ” is flowing.
In the airy Hall Masonic
Now is heard the voice harmonic
Of Miss Detchon (whose supernal
Beauty drives each daily journal
Into drivel even greater
Than is common to their natur),
And the Hiscocks’ combination
Have a hall—its appellation
Should be dear to Erin’s nation.
Strains of music, gay and doleful,
Sweetly strange and wildly soulful,
Jodel songs and ocarinas—
Glockenspiels and concertinas—
Fresher than the mountain breezes —
Trousers cut above the kneeses.
This describes the Tyrolean
Concert at the Athenseum.
Is it vague? Well, go and see ’em.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Alice” (Melbourne): Dear little Australian
girl, the “ Britisher” who slings bad language at your sex
and country in the Heralds correspondence column isn’t
worth your notice. Let the animal 51ide....“H.8.H.
(Hermitage Plains): Your items re wild cats, coal miners,
and other mixed subjects reoeived with thanks “An
Australian”: It ia not worth while trying to explain in
print what “ a great conception ”in art really means. If
you haven’t got brains to rake up a sample Conception of
your own, you won’t get one out of print. Try to explain
to a man who has always been deaf and dumb and blind
what light and sound are, and you will understand us
“ James Callard ” : Write to the editor of Lloyd’s News-
paper, London, and enclose letter, which he will forward
to its address, if you mail a penny for stamp... “ Enigma”
(Q ); (1) Write to N.S.W. Government Printer. (2) About
3s. Write to Cole, Book Arcade, Melbourne “ W.D.S.”
(Tas.): No; W. P. Morgan of Wales had nothing to do
with Mount Morgan in Queensland....“J. Blundell”:
Please give us address where letter will reach you
“ K.A.” : Hospital Sunday in Melbourne is, in our opinion,
less remarkable for its charity than for its ostentation
“Trotter Bethune ”: Many thanks. Send it along
“H H C.”: Excellent. Will print “A. J. 8.” (Melb.) :
The book does not appear to have been received
“Caique”: Regarded as a poet, you are the vilest de-
lusion we ever came across anywhere. .. “ The Brewer ” :
If you are a working man why do you call yourself a
“ brewer ” ? We took you for the owner of a beer-faotory.
You say that in your last epistle you wrote “as we
write” and “accurately after the same style.” Perhaps
so But you don’t know what to do with the style
when you’ve got it. And beside you never had it....
“W. G. Sharpham”: Always glad of lively p»rs. of the
oharaoter you mention....“ A.L.” :Itis a fact that prior
to its being tendered to the then Mr. Darley, the Chief
Justiceship of N.S.W. was refused by Mr. Dailey
“ Seeker of Justice ” (Geraldton): The local beak who
“ considered that there was no evidence whatever that
the defendant had assaulted the plaintiff,” but who,
nevertheless, bound the defendant over to keep the peace
and cursed him for wanting oosts, is a moderately intelli-
gent man as local beaks go. As to what people are to do
to obtain justice in the district whioh is bossed by this
gentleman we confess we don’t know.... “ Kurrajong’>
(Brisbane): A foolish question "Nimrod”: Your
communication, “Is Burial a Failure?” is held over till
1988 ‘The Snoozer”: Your contribution doesn’t
amount to much, and your ideas are almost too strong
for publication “Anxious” (Sydney): Our opinion
of your poet is too violent to be put in print
* 1 Chicago ” : Many thanks ; handed to artist “ L.E.”:
N.S.W. public school lady teachers prefer to remain in
metropolitan schools at £4O a year rather than go into the
country at £9O per annum *' St. Helena": Thanks;
will inquire, as suggested.. ..“W.A.” : In that case, then,
communicate with Lord Carington’s solicitors—Messrs,
Macnamara and Norton “ Santley ” : The fact that the
N.S.W. Government have only advertised in Australia for
tenders for leasing the N.S.W. tramways, instead of taking
steps to intimate to capitalists all over the world that
these vast properties are in the market, stamps the tram
proposals as a job. If the Sydney and Melbourne capi-
talists get hold of the tramways they will float each line
in London as a separate company, and will make hundreds
of thousands, perhaps millions, out of the transaction.
Why should not the people of N.S. Wales be allowed to
make this money ? Why should it be sharked into the
pockets of a ring controlled by certain notorious hangers-
on of the party of monopoly? [Many communications
held over.]
HorafovcTs Acid. Phosphate
Is a Brain and Nerve Food.
New South Wales justice—ten years for
the misappropriation of mutton.
The Prince of Wales is 47 on Friday of
this week, and according to latest advices is
bald, fat, and owes £llO,OOO.
Sir William Fox, of N.Z., who arrived in
Sydney on Monday, does not drink wine and is, in
point of fact, a boss teetotaller. He is probably
evolved from the fox that looked at the grapes and
saw they were sour.
A great experiment was tried at Mel-
bourne last Tuesday, with the best results.
Mentor, who was in a bad state for weeks before
the race, was filled up at the last moment with
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, and won as he liked.
A horse can win a race with Tonic Nervine after
he has been 1 dead three weeks.
Good Evans ! The Sunday Times (Sydney)
says that “ Lord Carnarvon was right in stating
the majority of Australians were in favour of
a 1 Freetrade policy.” And yet this very paper a
couple of months ago went the entire animal on
Protection. We must congratulate Mr. Evans,
the new proprietor, on having turned the sharpesv
curve on record.
Land, the Source of Wealth.
The great desire shown by Australians to improv e
their financial position has been referred to by
many noted visitors to our shores, and beyond »
doubt the energy displayed has, in very many
cases met with its reward. It cannot be denied
hundreds of comparatively poor but thrifty men
occupy first financial position in our city by
making judicious investments in land in suitable
localities; others, no doubt, have failed simply be,
cause they went about the business the wrong
way. In order to be successful as a land buyer a
man of moderate means must see how much he
can spare weekly out of his savings; having ascer-
tained that he then must be careful where he puts
it. In every locality, close to or in large centres
of population, the people settle near the one
spot. This is clearly demonstrated on our railway
lines. The people settle close to the stations
because it is handiest to means of communication %
but then again a railway at times passes through
settled centres of population, and in this case it
matters little whether the department put a
half-a-mile from a settled town, it never improves
to a very great extent, simply because not only a; e
the interests of those who reside in the old* r
settled town pushing it along, but the residents in
the whole surrounding district throw in their
weight and influence, so that at all times the little
half-mile platforms always remain simply a plat-
form hanging on to the coat-tails of the larger
centre. For instance, one would never imagine
that Harris Park platform will ever be a greater
Parramatta, nor Lewisham a greater Petersham.
But on the other hand, if one buys in an entirely
new place, sufficiently removed from large centres
to create a centre for itself, then it goes on its own
responsibility, and relies on the natural features or
other circumstances to make it worth touching.
Kogarah, on the Illawarra line, bad the advan-
tage of prior settlement, and it went off with a
fair start, that none of the other centres on the
Illawarra line can touch it; it had the first start
by an energetic land company quitting it on the
one side of the line at a fair figure, and allowing
purchasers to get a good profit on their invest-
ments, as evidenced by the fact that there have
been more lots resold than elsewhere ; but on the
opposite side of the line, at Kogarah, the greater
portion of the good land was held by a conserva-
tive few, who held out for their pound of flesh
until they were ultimately induced to sell the
whole line at a very low figure to the City and
County Investment Land and Building Company.,
Limited, of 327 Pitt-street, so that now they are
placing it on the market for quick sale, being
satisfied to take small profits and give the
public a chance to buy really cheap. It is need-
less to state that it is to be sold cheap, but here
we have the fact that at their last sale a little
further from the station they sold a very large
quantity at very low prices to the few who faced
the pouring rain. Now, next Saturday, the 10th
November, they are going to sell cheap, and re-
member that no matter how much the land brings
one need not pay more than £2 deposit, and ss.
per week, for every block purchased, or they may
take shorter but very advantageous terms. The
blocks (with the exception of a few) are 60ft.
frontage by 165 and 200 ft. deep and right at the
station, being the cleared land just beyond that
below the level of the railway station. We
admit that we have various characters of
land but being in such large blocks every
block is well adapted for building purposes.
Queen Victoria-street is the main road to Kogarah
fetation, and is the outlet for the whole of the
district lying towards Bexley, Alphington, Wol-
longong-road, Belmore, Hurstville, and other ad-
jacent districts. There is more traffic on this
road than any direct road to other Illawarra line
stations; it runs right through the Estate, and
has been well-made at a cost of nearly £3OO0 —in-
cluding stone bridges. Now you can buy a
quarter-acre, pay ss. a week, build a house, and
live cheaper than paying rent, as the vendors will
lend you the greater portion of the cost of build-
ing. Call at once, and get plan and free train
ticket. Remember, our advice is straight. Don’t
fail to come, as we will sell cheap. Free train
tickets and plans from Vendors or from
GARRARD & HAMILTON,
Auctioneers,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
For convenience of the public, the auctioneers’
offices will be open from 7.30 to 9 p.m. next Fri-
day evening to issue free tickets and plans.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain Wolfk’s.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
Sven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
ress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE,
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Aboriginalities.
According to a last week’s cablegram,
published in perfect innocence and good faith by
the clerical conductors of the Sydney morning
newspapers, the Rev. Dr. Dale has written an
article in the Contemporary Review, in the
course of which he passes judgment on the
nacional characteristics of the Australians, and
says the people of N.S.W. are “cordial but
selfish ” This expression of the reverend gentle-
man has created an unpleasant feeling in godly
circles in Sydney, and families under whose mahog-
any Dr. Dale tucked his ministerial number twelves
are in the deepest abyss of dejection, while one
or two of his quondam sacerdotal associates
ask the community not to rend its hair and put on
sack cloth and ashes until the complete article is
to hand by mail. The Bulletin would raise
its voice in the approval of the adoption of this
charitable course. At the same time, we think
that we can throw a light on the meaning
of the cablegram which may not have oc-
curred to persons outside the pale of journalism.
We shall be very much surprised if some mutton-
headedly unregenerate sub-editor is not respon-
sible for a different meaning being given to Dr.
Dale’s words than what he intended. Very prob-
ably the words of the cable, as received at the
newspaper offices, were “Wales selfish cordial.’
Now, had we amplified that cable it would have
been as clear as mud to us that the proper and
only reasonable interpretation was “ The people of
N.S.W. are selfish withthe cordial.” Asour readers
know, “cordial,” or “Presbyterian cordial,” is
the argot of sacerdotalism for whisky and it there-
fore would have appeartd to us that Dr. Dale,
relying on the perspicacity of the clerical con-
ductors of the Sydney papers to elucidate his
meaning, lapsed into a little professional free-
masonry. We are beginning to think that the
doctor is a jolly old cock, and are only sorry that
while in the city of the Beautiful Harbour his
entertainers did not “set ’em up” with the
frequency that, according to Dale punctilio, is the
true essence of hospitality—even of Congregational
hospitality. If he had only come across us we
would have filled him up to the back teeth every
night and saved the colony from the stigma of
being considered economical with the she-oak
The conclusions we have come to on this matter
are strengthened by the fact that while in Aus-
tralia the doctor was taken several cruises in a
certain yacht, which from Darling Harbour to
Manly is, according to a pleasant conceit, known
as the “longest boat” in these waters —the
longest you have to be on board before you are
asked to take a drink.
* * *
An alligator 14ft. long was shot recently
on the Daintree River (Q.), and when it was
opened it proved to contain, among other things,
a teetotal medal bearing the name of A. D,
Edwards, and the date 1880. A careful search
has Bince been made among the records of tem-
perance societies, blue-ribbon aggregations, and
other bodies which fill themselves up with cold
water, but there is no existing record of any alli-
gator named Edwards having sworn off in 1880,
and it is therefore presumed that the animal ac-
quired the silver decoration by foul means.
A hal'-starved and dead-beaten Queens-
land sundowner recently found himself a miser-
able wreck in the centre of a barren land. For
a month he had been nourishing his shattered
frame on ’possum diet, pig-weed and wild berries
while bushed. Just as hope forsook him and his
■sluggish heart refused to be comforted, he descried
in the distance a curl of smoke stealing through a
forest of parched-up gum trees. A gleam of joy-
ous sunshine illumined his dull soul—he was within
a few miles of humanity and in reasonable range
of a feed. With a spring which surprised him he
was on his feet and his swag on his back. An
hour afterwards and he was at the homestead of
oae of the meanest millionaire squatters of the
North. Dinner was over and the owner of
the run was smoking his clay pipe under
a spacious verandah. As the tramp advanced
he was eyed with a frown, and the pas-
toralist groaned as he reflected that he would
have to part with more victuals, and j revisions were
scare. The traveller wanted to purchase rations.
He was refused, but might have something to eat
if he cleared out immedi itely. He was requesbi d
to throw his swag down and go into the kkcl en.
The squatter followed him to the door, and 1 ept
watch that he did not consign half a sheep and a
few dampers to his “ bluey.” What a feed ! The
gloom which oppressed the hungry man vanished
as the slices of corned beef and delicious damper
filled up the great vacancy within him. In a
moment of wisdom his thoughts ran on bo the mor-
fow when the pangs of hunger might again tor-
ture him. A bright idea flashed across his mind.
The hat he wore had a broad brim and a deep
crown all built of straw. So planting his seat
closer to the table he rested his upturned hat be-
ween his legs ; then be watched his host. At
every opportunity he filled the crown with junks
of beef and damper. Having stored it to the
brim he covered the victuals carefully with
his handkerchief and placed the whole on his
head, When he had gorged himself to the last
square inch he rose and resumed his journey,
leaving the squatter filled with dismay at the
enormous appetite of the lonely whaler.
Sydney D.T. reports the discovery near
the Paroo River (N.S.W.) of a fossil bone which
is understood to belong to the Diprotodon, a near
relative of the Dromornis Australis. As this
bird was about 18 feet high we are prepared to
bet our boots that no scientist ever slung a name
like that at it while it was alive without having to
run for it immediately afterwards. In its fallen
state, however, the Dromornis is merely an ex-
tinct bone-heap all trodden into the ground, and
it is getting ex tincter every day; and consequently
a race of spectacled professors whom, in its best
days, it could have impaled with one claw, now
go out and take a low, mean advantage of it.
Daar Bulletin, —We had a Fijian dummy
and his time for perjury was due ; but not
a perjury would he do and divil a sign without
three figures in money. Even Kanakas have p'ride,
and if there is one thing our Sable selector is
proud of it is his signature. Now, suppose every-
thing ready—lawyer, papers, land-agent, squatter,
and dummy, and all willing, barring the dummy,
was it justifiable in the lawyer to bet the squatter
drinks all through that King Kalakao couldn't
write his name ? Done ! “ I’ll soon show you.”
The name is signed, and it happens to be just in
the spot that is suitable for devising 320 acres to
the lessee of where-are-you run. Mem.—Read
Jeremiah. As the partridge sitteth on eggs and
hatcheth them not, so he that selecteth land and
not by right shall leave it in the midst of his days
and in his end shall be a fool.— Scotty the
Wrinkxer.
; * *
A novel event recently came off at Forbes
(N.S.W.). One resident undertook to drink a
bottle of whisky, another a bottle of beer ; then
both ran a mile without falling. This is addi-
tional evidence in support of the notion that Aus-
tralia can lick the world. The signs are that
drinking will become our national pastime.
Queensland, statistics already proves, leads the
way, and the other provinces will follow. A team
of native-born boozers will yet be pitted against
the flower of England's soakers and will manfully
uphold the honour of our noble Country. Advance
Australia !
• * *
An English butter-expert is stumping
N.Z. and exercising the bucolic mind on the sub-
ject of the manufacture of the juices of the cow.
He recently lectured at Inglewood, and among his
audience was a Hibernian lady accoutred with a
lump of home' made butter wrapped in the leg of
one of Patsy’s cast off moleskins. The butter-
whallah was severe on the local produce, perorat-
ing thus : “To suit our London market you
must make butter, not cow-fat, as you do now,
dontcherknow.” The daughter of Erin arose—
slowly, sadly, solemnly she extricated
that butter ; she looked at it, smelt ib,
poised it, and slung it at the lecture*
with the poetical remark: “Ye
Omadahaun, ye ! ” The London eV
dodged the grease, but it Caught the
eye of the rev. chairman —who was
some sort of a bishop—and bunged it
rather badly.
• • •
If one should get lost in the
bush and determine not to die there,
a pretty sure plan whereby to come off
winner is to set fire to the grass.
Forty thousand sheep and a hundred
miles of fencing may be burned down,
but there will be such rushing of
stockmen and rouseabouts all over
the country that if the lost man
does not creep up a hollow tree they
will fall over him. Such a case oc-
curred at Bowen Downs (Q ) lately.
The stockmen went two miles to a
creek for a billy of water for the in-
ventive tramp, and having restored
him to sound health, started him at
A MELBOURNE SKETCH.
BID, ONLY DIRTY SHILLINGS BID, COHEN, COHEN,
such a run that he must be by now a great way
to the other side of the South Pole.
* * •
The new twopenny stamp, issued by the
N.S.W. Government, casts a very serious reflec-
tion upon what we have always looked upon as an
extremely respectable race of birds—namely, the
emu. On the new stamp an apparently plump
spring emu is represented looking very cocky
while over his head appears the legend “ A Hun-
dred Years the clear inference being that the
bird is as old as the average ballet-girl. We don’t
know what the emus think about the matter but
they appear to have a good cause of action against
the Government for libel and defamation of
character.
A new snake-story from the Murrmundi
(N.S.W.) district. A station lad pricked himself
in two places in the leg, and declared he had been
bitten by a snake—-this, in the hope that he would
be sent to the hospital, from which he thought he
could soon obtain “leg-bail,” and so escape from
service But his master was not only a highly
humane man but a bit of a bush-doctor to boot,
and, with the aid of the other station-hands, he
got the lad down, and, in spite of struggles,
prayers, and curses, he cut a chunk out of the
schemer’s leg, cauterised the wound with a red-hot
iron, and afterwards filled it up with gun-powder,
which was fired with a red-hot poker. The victim
was then plentifully supplied with whisky, and at
every appearance of drowsiness either horse-
whipped or soused in the river. In spite of these
remedies, however, the hopeful youth recovered
and left the station. By and bye he got level
with his old boss by going back and selecting a
piece of land that was the very eye of the station.
The iatrl Tb ot bailers—a mi Other Matters.
bear Bulletin, — The present visit of a
team of Maori footballers to England- so auspi-
ciously commenced with several victories against
some of the most notable football counties
in Britain, supplies a peg on which to hang a
brief dissertation on the noble, copper-skinned
race inhabiting the grand islands which Tom
Bracken, in a flight of poetic fancy, has not in-
aptly styled “Pacific’s Triple Star.” These suc-
cesses in the football field will do much towards
opening the eyes of stolid, unteachable, self-
sufficient John Bull to the rare physical qualities
of a people which he is inclined to think of con-
temptuously as “ niggers,’’and though the national
pride may receive an unpleasant shock, the lesson
will no doubt be a beneficial one. As a matter
of fact, mfin for man, the Maori is superior to
your boasted Anglo-Saxon, His physique is better,
his endurance is greater, his Courage is, at
least, as great, and he possesses in a wonderful
degree the faculty of adaptability, which reduces
to the vanishing-point the alleged advantages of
our ten centuries Of civilisation. Naturally, he is
a gentleman in the truest sefise, and with a little
culture, such as may. be picked up at the schools
and colleges in New Zealand, he is fit, even from
a white man’s view, to mix in any society. lam
afraid the average Englishman has never forgiven
the Maori for the repeated reverses met with by
the Imperial troops in the wars of 1845 and
1861-3. Miserably armed with old flint-locks and
“ trade ” guns, and with no commissariat to speak
of except perhaps fern-roots and bread made from
the pith of the raupo reed, he administered check
after check to the English troops. Gate Pa,
Ngutu-o-te Manu, and other crimson battle-
fields will bear everlasting testimony to
the prowess of the Maori. When the Maori
king visited England sottte years agb to
endeavour to secure the rPdress of some real ,or
fancied grievances, he desired t'6 Intelview the
Queen, but her GracioUs Majesty declined to see
thu representative of the finest race of “ savages ”
the world has eVer seen, and yet a day or two
later she granted an audience to some baboon
which had been sent to her as tribute by an Abys-
sinian monarch whose half-Daked soldiers her
troops had butchered. How Royal ! The brave
enemy was slighted while the “ backsheesh” from
a conquered potentate was honoured with royal
recognition. Wahanui, the Maori Premier, Te
Wheoro, who fought on the British side during
the war, Rewi, the hero of Orakau, are as magnifi-
cent specimens of mankind as were ever ushered into
this vale of sorrows, and yet too many of us in our,
cast-iron self-sufficiency dare to think of them as
inferior. I take off my hat to such as these.
* * *
Sturdy as is the pure-blooded Maori, the
half-caste—the result of the union of a European
with an aboriginal—is his superior. Just as the
crossing of the equine thoroughbred with the
Arab steed of the desert produces an animal
transcending in the excellence of its points the
type of both sire and dam, so the progeny of the
sturdy European pioneer and the lithe daughter
of the wilderness is of a calibre superior to either
of his progenitors. The male half-ciste is, as a
rule, big-boned, muscular, adroit, while his com-
plexion is certainly not darker than that of th
Spaniard; the women are almost invariably hand
some, refined looking, and with wondrous eyes ri
vallingin brilliancy the astral beauty of their native
skies. Although the marital connection between
the white father and the Maori mother is not, as a
ru l p >. blessed with book and bell, the taint of
illegitimacy does not attach to the offspring of
these irregular unions. Under the ancient Maori
law, cohabitation is equivalent to a matrimonial
ceremony, and a half-caste is regarded by the rela-
tions of his native mother as a member of the tribe,
and entitled to all the tribal privileges and a
share in the tribal lands. If the mother is
the daughter of a chief, her half-breed son takes
rank as a rangitira, and at the present moment
the head chieftainship of more than one impor-
tant hapu is held by a person of mixed blood.
The laws of the colonists also recognise in a round-
about manner the marital relationship of the
European and the Maori, and certainly no stigma
attaches to the fruit of the quasi-illegal connec-
tion. It is difficult for the Britisher, with his
opinions chained to the slow drag-ball of
custom and prejudice, to conceive how the
son of an unmarried mother can be other
than a bastard, and thus an object for
pity or contumely ; in New Zealand the practice
is so frequent and the recognition so general that
no adverse comment is excited. Now ahd tlieii
strange conhriemiis arise through th'e fr'ee-and-
easy marital system. It is within the recollectioh
of the writer that a fine young half-caste, holding
chieftain’s rank through his mother, but who was
reared and educated as a European, married the
daughter of a prominent colonist and became
the father of seVeral children. After some
years of happy married life, business took the
half-caste father to the village of his mother’s
people, and, so delighted were his full-blooded
relatives at his coming amongst them that they
persuaded him to marry, according to Maori usage,
the only daughter of the head chief of the tribe.
In due course, she gave birth to a son, who now,
through the death of his maternal grandfather,
becomes the chieftain of one of the most numerous
and wealthy tribes in the North Island, and, of
his own right, heir to many hundreds of thousands
of acres of land. Of course his sire lias laid him-
self open to a suit for divorce at the hands of hfa
European wife, but no charge of bigamy will lib.
# * *
“ I cannot Understand a tVhitb man
could bring himself to lbve a hasty brow h person, 1 ’
1 hear some fair Potts-Pointer exclaim, shrug-
ging her shoulders meantime wijih a, littjp
gesture of disgust. A man brought up in
a civilised community sets up a wasp-waists d
woman as the type of female excellence. He has
never seen a Venus de Milo in real flesh and blood
and believes in her no more than he does in a
winged Mercury or a horse-bodied Centaur. Cen-
turies of civilisation have twisted the ‘ female
form divine ” out of the lines that Nature intended
it should follow, and masculine taste has been
betrayed into the adoration of a wrong ideal.
But send a man to the woods; let his mind
become attuned to the harmony of Nature by the
worship at the altar of Nature herself ! The false
taste is at once dethroned, and he sees in the woman
that Nature fashioned, brown-skinned withal, the
natural object of his adoration. No, ladies !
Tnere is nothing horrid in a brown skin, if sym-
metry and innocence go with it. I cast my
vote for a natural woman in preference to a
thing with banged hair, congested liver, and cor-
set-bruised ribs called a lady.
* * *
But all this has very little to do with the
Maori footballers. It is just about a year since
the idea of sending a Maori team to England was
first broached by Joe Warbrick, the most pro-
minent member of a well-known athletic half-
caste family. Joe has been a prominent footballer
for at least 10 years, and until be took the cap-
taincy of the native team it was his proud boast
that he had taken part in 30 interprovincial or in-
tercolonial matches, and that he had never played
on a beaten side. He is now about 28 years of
age, about the middle height, and with the form
of an ideal gladiator, and he had, two or three
years ago, the reputation of being the best all-
round exponent of the Rugby game in Australasia.
By profession he is a native interpreter, and at
the last general election he essayed to win the
Eastern Maori seat in the N.Z Parliament, but
was beaten by another athletic half-caste named
Carroll. Joe, on the mother’s side, is a member of
the celebrated Arawa tribe, one of the most noted
of the strife-loving Maori clans, and it was to some
of his tattooed relatives in this tribe that he first
mentioned the project of the English trip. The ol 1
chiefs put their heads together and decided to find
the “ needful ”-=-not in the mercenary spirit that
usually governs such matters, but with a desire to
show to the world the prowess of their race. The
team was spsedily organised, and included,
amongst others, Alfr d Warbrick, the brave guide
and one of the heroes of the Tarawera
eruption ; William Warbrick, an Auckland re-
presentative player and one of the hardest
“ nails ” that ever donned a footballer’s
jersey ; Arthur Warbrick ; T. Ellison, a Welling
ton representative; Lee, of Invercargill; the
Wynyard brothers, quadroon grandsons of a lats
Lieut.-Governor of N.Z—Colonel Wynyard; R
Taiaroa, a son of the Hon. H. K. Taiaroa,
M.L C , the principal chief of the South Island,
and the erstwhile owntr of the site of Dunedin
city; Ihimaira, otherwise ‘The Smiler,” the
sturdy son of a Hawke’s Bay chieftain; and others
of lees note. The business management of the
team was entrusted to Mr. Janies Scott, a well-
known sporting publican frcm Gisborne, and pro-
bably the very best man who could be found for
the position.
The first time the writer made the ac-
quaintance of the Maori team was at Mick Gal-
lagher’s hotel, Auckland, in July last. And what
a magnificent lot of fellows they looked in their
well-fitting garments of fashionable cut ! Joe
Warbrick was poking fun at “the Smiler,” and the
latter —a student of Aute College, by the way
“countered” with an apt quotation from Horace.
Another member of the Beam was deep in the
unravelment of the fifteen-puzzle—for the Maories
are naturally great mathematicians, while Alf.
Warbrick read some new rules of the game of
football to an interested knot of listeners All
seemed at their ease, perfectly well-bred and
natural, w'ibh none of that tendency to boisterous
horseplay characteristic of the young Anglo-Saxon
when two or three are gathered together. Alf.
Warbrick being pressed, modestly recounted his
adventures at Tarawera during the volcanic out-
break, his rescue of the Way family, and bis
descent with a reporter into the steaming chasm
of one of the Rot-omahana craters. The conver-
sation then became general, the topic being the
approaching visit of the team to England. The
matter was approached so shrewdly and with so
much modesty that one could not help envying
them their perfect bearing. On the following day
the Maoris met the strongest team that Auckland
has ever placed in the field but, possibly owing to
an unfortunate accident whereby Joe Warbrick
broke a small bone of his leg, the natives sustained
anarrow defeat. Those who sawthegame, however,
predicted that with a little more practice they could
more than hold their own anywhere. A victorious
tour through the South Island more than made up
for the defeat at Auckland and now they are in
England winning match after match with a
defeat thrown in here and there just to show them
that they are not invincible. According to latest
advices, Joe Warbrick’s leg was still weak, and
thus in their earlier matches they have been de-
prived of his valuable services. Their war-cry is
an old tribal slogan of the Ngatimaniapoto tribe—
“ Ake ! ake ! Kia kaha,” which, being interpreted,
meaneth “For ever ! For ever be strong.” May
it be a shout of victory after many a hard-fought
game, is the sincere wish of—Timi Pieipi.


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low,
Only a few more £lO allotments Everleigh
Estate, Perth, West Australia. Send for Plans
and Pamphlets. The Intercolonial Investment
Co., 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
auctioneers,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c.
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Daily.
All Lists posted Free on application,
Personal Items.
Miss Braddon is writing her literary remi-
niscences.
The Earl of Dufferin has been created
Marquis of Dufferin and Agra. Agra !
Lord Harris, of whom Australians know
Something, is bo be the next Governor of Bombay.
Daniel Henry Deniehy’s widow married a
gentleman named Smith living in Woollahra,
Sydney.
Koilg Meng’s likeness printed in a Mel-
bourne weekly was generally mistaken for that of
Pope Leo.
’three of Australia’s most brilliant natives
]i'e in tli'e Waverley Cemetery—Kendall, Deniehy,
and Dailey.
The illness from which M‘liwraith has been
suffering is sluggish action of the heart intensified
by overwork.
Hon. E. Mitchelson, N.Z. Minister of
Works, was in Melbourne to see his horse Whaka-
wai run for the Cup.
Captain Webb’s comely widow is selling
photographs of her husband at the big “ Niagara”
panorama, in London.
The will of Mr. Marshall BurdekinVan old
N.S.W. colonist, who died recently in London,
Was proved at £53,139.
A member of the present Queensland Par-
liament was formerly a barman in a Sydney pub.
Still in the measure business.
Major Cooper, now resident at Manly, was
military commandant and magistrate at Brisbane
before Queensland became a separate colony.
One of the N.S.W. Supreme Courb judges
s6‘ Wes the soothing weed that he only drops the
pipe ds he leaves his robing-room for the bench.
N. A journals are run on strictly economic
fines. Fancy the nominal editor of a big capi-
talistic morning pa’p'sr being iff receipt of £2OO per
annum !
An Adelaide revereiid has deserted the
pulpit for the Stock Exchange and is knov>n as!
“the Methodist Broker.” From Scripture to Scrip?
—possibly from surplice to surplus.
The oldest consul in Sydney is Don Guil-
lermo Enrique Eldred, known to Englishmen as
W. 11. Eldred, who has held the appointment as
representative of Chili for some 30 years.
Robertson, MTlwraith’s private secretary,
has been blamed for disclosing the facts of the
Premier’s private interview with Lady Musgrave.
It was not through him that it leaked out.
The Lyndhurst school-house, where it is
said William Bede Dailey wa3 partly educated, is
now a butcher’s shop, and the mansion where the
professors and pupils ate and slept a lying-in-
hospital.
Pierce, M.P. for a Melbourne suburban
constituency, -is a silont member. He was a
barber before he back-slid and took to politics,
and is supposed to have talked himself dry when
in business.
The Prince of Wales is hard-up. He ovo3
£lOO,OOO and will, it is said, have “ to lay the
matter bt f ire Parliament.” His children are
growiog up and they also meditate a frenz.ed
Treasury-grab.
Tne Wilson Hall, Melbourne University,
is adorned with a bust of Bir Salmon, the founder.
The public may think this was subscribed for, but
it wasn’t. It was paid for out of Sir Salmon’s
own money gift.
Mr. Justice Foster was, before taking to
the law, engaged in farming on the Hunter River.
So that, in his strictures on the jury at West
Maitland, the other day, he was not very compli-
mentary to his old neighbours.
Quong Tart, Syiney’s boss Chinaman, is
going to the Flowery Land to be formally made
into a Mandarin. Mr. Tart anticipated the honor
by appearing one day last week in the Royal
Arcade with all his “ clothes ” on.
Mr. W. H. Groom, late Speaker of the
Queensland Legislative Assembly, offers a prize of
£5 for the best essay on the “Life of St. Peter”
•—the gentleman who did a shady thing or two,
and then went out and wept bitterly.
It is related of A.N.A Pucves, Q.C., of
Melbourne, that he flabbergasts all book-agents and
such, who enter his office to ascertain if he wants
to buy this or subscribe to that, Joy saying that he
never sees anyone without the intervention of an
attorney.
“Paolo Macari,” an extremely angular-
minded correspondent whose letters on all sorts of
subjects have been appearing in the Freetrade
dailies of Sydney lately, is alleged to be identi-
cal with a prominent politician who drops his
“aitches.”
Captain Wright, the Queensland ex-com-
modore, is a dapper little man, resembling a cross
between Nelson in his middle years and George
Grossmith as the Captain of the Pinafore. His
wife, who is from the Cape, is perhaps the most
attractive woman in Brisbane.
In 1863 there were 53 barristers at the
N.S.W. Bar. Of these 32 have passed away, and
of the remainder only Mr. G. B. Simpson, the
present Attorney-General, is in active practice.
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., is included in the list, but he
is just now absent from Australia,
It is Francis Adams who holds forth each
week in the Queenslander circle column on all
things human and divine and otherwise. Under
the same elusive pseudonym of ‘ 1 Proteus he
wrote some curiously reactionary side-articles in
the Sydney Morning Herald some while ago.
By the death of Mr. Dailey, Q C , Mr.
G. B. Simpson, Q.C. and Attorney-General,
becomes the father of the N.S. Wales Bar, he
having been admitted in 1858.. The Dame of Mr.
Henry Cary Dangar appears in the Law List ?s
having teen called to the Bar in 1854, but he has
never practised.
Sir Henry Parkes said to a friend the
other day that he did not share the general public
estimate of the abilities of Deniehy, nor. was he
altogether at one with the public concerning Mr.
Dailey ; but this he would say—the best thing of
Dailey’s was in his judgment better than the best
thing of Deniehy’s.
Mr. Morrison Davidson, the author of
“The New Book of Kings,” “The Book of
Lords,” and other works tending to shake Toryism
to its basis, intends making a lecturing tour
through Australia sit an early date. He is at
present engaged on a “ History of Ireland,”
which, it is calculated, will create a good d«?al of
excitement in Parliamentary circles.
Lord Dufferin is the latest addition to the
fraternity of marquises, a rather small and select
class of Britain’s errand nobility. Earls are
seldom, or never, lifted into marquises, nowadays,
except with a view to “ dukeing ” them at a later
period. If they were created dukes at one fell
blow the shock miarht bring about a funeral in the
family, therefore Her Gracious Majesty does it in
twice.
Premier MTlwraith never goes anywhere
without his little Scotch terrier. This was the
animal that lately lifoed up its voics in the Queens-
land Assembly on the entry of the ridiculously
rigged-out vice-regal aide, and gave vent to a
lugubrious howl of disapproval. The little tyke
has a brother called “Henry Jordan, Junior,”
from his resemblance to the Queensland Liberal
saint of that name, the Griffibhite Minister of
Lands.
Sir Henry Parlies, having taken a great
fa'ncy to a | bor little orphan boy of four years, lias
written a pbem to bi ; m ! Und got up ;>• subscription
for his benefit, a'nd. had him placed in the care of a
private family. Si'r Henry says that his protege
is “the fsn o Bt little fellow he has eVer' seen.”
Poor little devil! That’s exactly wbgpi Parkes
always tells every new memb’.r of Parliament.
After such a precedent, new foreign-trade merabf *'3
should always demand a* poem along with the
other adulation, not necessarily for publication!,
but as a guarantee of good faith
Sir Julius Yogel’s grand scheme for a
Picturoique Atlas of New Zealand has come to
naught, there being no public money in London
for such a venture, while the recollection of the
colonial statesman’s connection with certain abor-
tive electric-1 ighting companies some years ago
certainly did not improve his chances as a com-
pany-monger. One London firm were willing to
take up the concern if 3000 subscribers of £lO each
in New Zealand were guaranteed; they wanted
£15,000 down. Vogel did nob close with these
terms, and so the scheme is on the shelf.
Sir Julius Vogel Is physically in a very
bad way indeed. By tlx'aid of crutches or sticks he
HE WOULDN’T GO AGAIN.
PLEECEMAN: “NOW YOU’D BETTER COME ALONG QUIETLY!"
DRUNK AND DISORDERLY ONE: “BEGORRA THEN I WON'T; THE LASHT
TIME I APPEARED BEFORE THE COORT I WAS TOWLD NOT TO COME
AC’IN, AND I’M D—D IF IGO NOW!”
can sometimes walk a little, but practically he is
a prisoner confined to bis wheel-chair. Then
again he is very hard of hearing. This complaint
of his fluctuates a great deal, sometimes he can
hear almost easily, and then suddenly he becomes
quite deaf. This latter generally happens when
awkward questions are being put to him. He
will then become quite stolid and look at his
questioner in a steadily unintelligent way that
generally stops the questioning and sometimes
terminates the interview.
According to the Australian Star the
late Mr. W. B. Dailey was “at his best (as a
speaker) when responding to an impromptu de-
mand upon his intellectual powers.” If this be
written ironically, it is “bad form”; if written
seriously, it is notoriously incorrect. What the
character of the demand that evoked a speech
from Mr. Dailey could have to do with its quality
js nob plain ; that his best oratorical efforts were
carefully prepared is no secret. As a matter of
fact, many of his speeches were “ set up ” and the
proofs corrected by the hand of their author days
before they were delivered.
A good story is told by the London cor-
respondent of the Liverpool Post of Raikes, the
British Postmaster-General, Henniker Heaton —
perhaps his most vigorous tormentor—being the
victim. The pair were in the smoking-room of
the House of Commons. Heaton having fired off a
volley of four questions at a single sitting, some-
one condoled with Raikes on the infliction.
“Yes,” said Raikes, “it’s sometimes hard ; but
what I myself wonder at is that a man so devoted
to letters should not be a little more fortunate in
the arrangement of his ‘ h’s.’ ” Bar one, ’Enniker
’Eaton is (says the correspondent), perhaps, the
most determined scorner of the letter “ h ” known
to the Commons. Never mind—Parkes threatens
one day to henter the ’Ouse of Commons,
Each of the Melbourne daily papers sub-
scribed £lOO towards liquidating the late debt of
£lOOO on Melbourne Hospital.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96 .Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The MTlwraith Government has done
Wright again.
The N.Z. Knights of Labour are urging
the Government to establish a State Bank of
Issue.
The most uncompromising and determined
Nationalist in Queensland at the present time is a
German.
Before election —the Apostle of the North.
After election —the Apostate of the Norbh. True,
everywhere.
The hard-headed men composing the
British Trades Union Congress have decided by
85 to 6 in favour of Land Nationalisation.
Ninian Melville states that the alleged
Newcastle rioters while waiting for trial were sub-
jected to solitary coDlinemenb and fed on hominy.
“ Anything can now be made of paper,”
says a scientific journal. That is to. We’ve seen
a Premier made out of paper—out of his own
paper.
“ The gentleman who has figured as your
reprefentative is a person whom no decent man
can touch, even with a pair of tongs.”— Remark
by Parkes.
“Death is the poer man’s friend” were
the words written in the pocket book of a septua-
genarian suicide whose clay was found in a paddock
ab Heathcote (Vic.) True again. Nobbing short of
death establishes the poor man in the land under
the present regime.
Mr. Dailey’s last public appearance in the
N.S.W. Legislative Council was on the second
reading of the Chinese Restriction Bill, when
he made an eloquent appeal for justice for the
Mongol.
The gigantic land-job now on the tapis in
Sydney Harbour consists in an attempt on the
part of a syndicate to annex the quarantine-ground,
a splendid piece of property which should for ever
belong to the people.
The trouble with the N.S.W. Opposition
is that they have too much individuality. They
can balk their opponents blind, but they miss
many golden opportunities for lack of cohesion.
They can’t agree to swing like a door.
Dibbs, leader of the N.S.W. Opposition,
is a good fellow, but an awful blunderer. Instead
of keeping silent over Parkes’ military promenad-
ing in the Newcastle district, he went out of his
way to endorse it. And so did A bbott.
There are likely to be some changes in the
portfolios of the MTlwraith Ministry before loDg.
Nelson will probably resign the Railways, and
there was a balk of Morehead becoming Chief
Secretary if MTlwraibh’s ill-health continues.
Edward Combes (who disfigured his name
when he permitted the letters C.M.G. to be tacked
on to it) is nowin England, but will return to New
South Wales in time for next general election.
Some foreign-trade seats will go to the wall then.
Mr. Crouch, the round-headed member for
the Richmond and the Tweed (N.S.W.) was elected
as a Protectionist, bub has steadfastly supported
Parkes. His two performances have been to move
the cloture on Dibbs and ask for a train to take
members to the Melbourne Cup.
The pair of boots which made Kitt famous
and caused the resignation of the Queensland
Ministry are worn by a Charters Towers bank
manager. When they are worn out they are to
be sent to the Brisbane Museum, and placed im
the Historical Relics Department.
The Victorian Board of Viticulture is urg
ing the Government to impose a duty of Id. per-
lb. on imported grapes. It also moves for the
establishment of a Viticultural college and a model
vineyard, and otherwise demands that the State,
shall help forward the grape-growing industry.
The Canadian-Pacific Railway Co. has-
offered to deliver mails at Brisbane within 85 days
of departure from London, and to establish a
branch service to Auckland and Fiji; also to con-
vey passengers through the whole route ab rates-
nob exceeding those by the Suez route. All this,
for “ a moderate subsidy.”
Ex-Commissioner Goodchap, of N.S.W.*
has a large pension (£930 per annum), but then he
served his colony for at least 34 years. Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy draws £lOOO a year from the Vic
torian revenue in recognition of two years’ hard
work as a Minister (for he had hard work to keep-
in office for the required term).
Sir Thomas MTlwraith’s Government re-
pealed the law poll-taxing the Chinese entering
Queensland. The reason given for the repeal was
that the new tonnage impos's met necessary re-
quirements. Now it transpires that Sir Thomas
will visit Japan and Southern China at the end of
this month. Was he afraid of a retaliatory poll--
tax ?
Tired of skulls, that illustrious politician.
Dan O’Connor has taken again to scullers. H(».
has promptly grasped oarsman Searle by the hand
and shed upon him the “luminosity” of his ap- 1
proval. Dan bakes care never to be associated
with a failure —if he can help it. But there is onft
failure he can’t get away from. Its name is D J
O’Connor, Im Pay.
Governors of Queensland are allowed
extras for balle. Premier MTlwraith fays It
must be so no longer. As Government Homo
balls are not for the benefit of the people at large,
he says thab the people at large must not be taxed
for them. That is sound logic—bub it goes ever
so much farther than Government House balls.
Keep straight on, MMlwraith.
Says a Melbourne contemporary ;
The British nation can always support its Royal Fain )y
in a fashion sufficiently liberal to prevent its members
stooping to benefit by the opportunities for pilfering
which must cols tan tly be presenting themselves.
Rough on Royalty, isn’o it? Poor people have to
be honest oa little or nothing, bub their Royal
Highnesses evidently must be heavily bribed to
keep them from stealing.
The daily papers, some of them with un-
disguised exultation, printed a cablegram last week
stating that Captain O'Shea’s evidence before the
Parntll-TiMKS Commipsicn “ was very damaging
bo the Irish leader.” They omitted to say that
Captain O’Shea is politically as suspicious a
character as the now notorious Mr. Prank Hugh
O’Donnell. O’Shea, when candidate for Sligo, was
supported by Parnell against the advice of the rank-
and-file of the Irish par by, who had taken the
man’s measure properly.
The N.S.W. Minister for Justice having
stated that he does not intend to take
any further action in the case of New-
man, new undergoing imprisonment in con-
nection with the Mount Rennie case, it
clearly becomes the duty of some member of
Parliament to move, for the purpose of thoroughly
ventilating the question, that in the opinion of
the House Mr. Justice Windeyer is utterly unfit-
bo try any criminal case, and should ab once be
deposed from his seat on the bench of the Supreme
Courb.
Foreign-traie Secretary Pulsford says that
“the friendly policy of the mother country to her
colonies calls for a friendly response from them”—
meaning thereby that we must cheerfully admit
British shoddy withoub taxation, merely because
the Imperial authorities make C.M.G.’s out of our
boss rum-sellers. The Bulletin considers that
one of the main reasons why Australia should be
vigorously Prctecbionist is that while Foreign-
trade directly tends to cement the bonds that bind
us to Brummagen, a native-industrial policy will
bring us every day nearer to cubbing the painter
and setting up an Australian republic.
Queensland is a fatal place for Governors ;
the worn-out old men with debilitated frames who
represent the royal prerogative drop off fast in
that semi-tropical clime. Governor Blackall died
in harness, and Sir Anthony Musgrave has just)
followed him. Sir Arthur Kennedy died while on
his way back to England. Sir Maurice O'Connell
served for a few weeks as Acting-Governor, and
then collapsed into the grave; and Sir Joshua
Peter Bell perished of the same undermining
billet. No other Australasian colony, except
Victoria, has ever yet lost a Governor by death,
and if it were not for Queensland, and a few other
colonies of equally fatal reputation, the average
British viceroy would probably live on for ever.
Perhaps it may be that the Queensland air is too
democratic.
Manly Lodginks. Visitor; “Four guineas
seems a lob; right in the town toe, so far away
from the sea.” Possessor of Lodgioks That’s
just it, ma’m; you don’t have the nasty sea bo
keep you awake.”— Adapted.
Had young Brun, who was struck dead by
lightning at Chiltern (Vic.), the othpr day, lived
a few centuries ago, it would have been set down
as a fact beyond all dispute that His Satanic
Majesty Nicholas I. was responsible for his
appearance in this world Brun, it appears, was
born while a thunderstorm was raging, was
baptised in the midst of a thunderstorm, and met
his death from the electric fluid. This was not
all, however, for a terrific storm broke over the
district while he was being buried, and his coffin
was lowered amidst deafening peals of heaven's
artillery.


“The Members of the Contingent are going to e[?]ect a memorial to Mr. Dalley. ’—Daily Press.


OurVfiYor SL.
Cccjb y
4
N,,
fau. /
(fOiscr-nryopf-
f'ccoujp
Acrls ' p *S,/cy*.,
7p*y °L 6* 1
'6*s? by*-
b«/V'9 °//* c 'l
//a aj-ffic7c<t
Jerc- or 7u>cr fl*t *>«-
OlaiA-lc/ f/kz. yci<S e.
/O <u f- c< o c djyp
Lord Koselierv conu n rtn
that it Is impracticable to
adm " ,h, ‘ C'lhptes to ,i controlling toicl in
the Jm penal polie; of the Ktopi/e unless
the.v bear their sham of thu cost of that
CfOS. you?? ?£pct
,'ye. y<"7*y
Nc C(. a / A
' cJ//f u)oyt
you 2-
'' U \ r h^cU; x
'tra
'/yp "7<£Tay, V*? Mo-t*
ycjurj fes/izcC, 77>ere.s *f°ye-
l3rote? fJ'f?ausor//y
Sc.yS Tfya.f'rfe cCtsfrtcf
Co ,Pf cJ/fou./'Cc cSrof of
(da/er uy/ess sfz Joseph} e.?rc°y*s
tut **7Z
for£a/cC #«-/ OJ/rt'Je*? f j
"cCrvfi ojC *■?/ ?'?&
Various Thing’s.


SWEET BORpyiA, the New Perfume. Mann
lectured from the West Australian “ Bor onto
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
6b. and 10a. Post Free to any addresß In
Australasia. Be Bure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-atreet Bast,
Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effeoted. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, oopies of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
•ured by these Drums, and who reoommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 65 William Street, Melbourne.
FOREIGN STAMPS FOIE COLLECTIONS: Our
new price list can bs obtained «n application.
"Selections of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, postage 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. S 3" Old collections purchased.
It. A. Vl>«>l\ A ( 0,, Box 660, General Post
Office, S¥PWEV.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1858.
THE LEADING HOUSE
POE
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followin'
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which oannot be ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
W.H. PALING i GO-, lU.
*53 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
Bollingen
[?]
* * *
From a Cairns (Q ) paper :
XyANTED a good general servant. Apply Mrs. Ah
" Ching, M‘Leod-street.
Yea, verily now the foot of the Mongolian is on
the neck of the Celt. Poor Bridget!
• • •
The vestry of a fashionable church in
Christchurch (N.Z ) make it a practice to post on
a tablet in the portal the amount of the voluntary
contributions of the worshippers. On a recent
Sunday the amount was some £4 odd, and a local
paper says the plan of thus announcing the amount
of the offertory is a good one, as it saves the con-
gregation from the danger of being carried away
by a sense of their own generosity and prevents,
mayhap, a feeling that they are very reckless in
lending to the Lord.
• • •
Athleticism has penetrated every portion
of our social fabric. With respect to the next
Sunday-school demonstration, The Bulletin
knows of a little girl who is accounted a good
thing for the Bible-class handicap, while her
younger sister should have a cut in for the Cate-
cism Stakes.
* •
A Spiritualistic medium has just come to
grief at Brisbane. At a seance he raised “ sper-
rits,” and induced them to write trans-Styx cor-
respondence on a locked slate. One of the papers
said the whole affair was “a clumsy imitation of
Maskelyne and Cook.” The medium “had his
attention drawn” to the report, and forthwith
gave the editor a bit of his mind on foolscap. This
only made matters worse for the unfortunate
ghost-raiser, as a comparison in the newspaper
office of his caligraphy and the slate-writing
showed the handwriting to be the work of the
same person. Moral: Me who lives by the slate
shall be slated.
• * •
A talented amateur baritone who sang
“ Barney Take Me Home ” at a dinner given by a
local musical society lately must be gifted with
foresight, as, not many hours after, he was es-
corted to his domicile by some friends, and it
required quite a lot of them to “take him home.”
* * •
A British swell lately in Australia appears
to have fallen on parlous times. It is stated
that a certain Queensland mining estate, which
he was graciously pleased to introduce to
the British public, and which cost nearly
£375,000, now requires a paltry £lOOO for cer-
tain work, and yet not a quarter of that sum
can be raised. The original cost nf this very
desirable property was £360,000, the preliminary
expenses amounted to £2953, and the development
to over £B6OO, to say nothing of £3972 for rent,
directors’ fees, salaries, and the various other ex-
penses that mining ventures are heir to. Against
this vast expenditure, the metal sold has
realised £82105., the interest and transfer fees
£lO7 14s. 3d., and the cash in hand totals the
magnificent sum of £2O 19s. sd.
* • #
It is an ominous sign that Broken liill
undertakers run double-column advertisements in
the local “buster.”
* * •
If material advancement is everything,
and the multiplication of the piachinery of life an
unmixed good, Edison is the most beneficent man
of his centuiy. His inventions abridge work of
every description. Bis.latest combination is in
the direction of simplifying letter-writing. After
reading his tremendously voluminous correspon-
dence the inventor of the phonograph talks into
one of his most perfect voice-recorders. The first
thing in the morning a short-hand reporter sits
down and uncoils at any rate of speed he likes the
oral dictations confided to the phonograph. From
the stenographic digests the short-hand writer
runs off the letters by means of a type-writer, and
the business is done. Women who have decided
that marriage is afafiure here a future before
them, and those whose husbands won’t work a
nice, clean method of keeping the family stew-pot
full of hash.
* * *
Thje Fisheries—The N.S.W. Women’s In-
dusti Lai Exhibition.
• * •
Melbourne papers say that the vice-regal
residence south of the Yarra is by far the finest
residence in Australia, and, they might add, the
most expensive. When handsome Mr. Reed
(Reed and Barnes), the architect, bad completed
the plans he submitted them to Viscount Canter-
bury, the then Governor, for his approval and pos-
sible suggestions. Although Lord Canterbury was
never likely to occupy the place, he informed Mr.
Reed that there was one little improvement which
might be made. With note-book in hand the
architect desired His Excellency to speak his mind
"I'm Su
I */£
° u f ova
W-"
freely. “Well, Mr. Reed,” quoth John Henry
Thomas Manners-Sutton, “you might add one
little room where the Governor could have a quiet
mutton chop to himself.”
The British female has acquired another
drawback. Hitherto she has only dyed herself,
but now she has taken to dyeing her children as
well, and the British infant is coloured in her
cradle and grows up that way. Babies of three
years of age have their faces powdered and their
hair stained and their eye-brows pencilled, and
totter about in a state of abject misery under the
burden of their own complexions, and girls of
eight or ten have their cheeks carefully painted
before they are allowed to go out. It isn’t worth
while to be a fashionable British infant now unless
one is paid half-a-crown an hour for the job.
*
In these days of £50,000 consultations it
may not be out of place to re tell an old story of
the great Umballa sweep, organised in India on
the English Derby, which occurred in Blue Gown’s
year. A few weeks before the race an Indian
masher was buying a duck of a bonnet, or some
apparatus of a like nature, for his “ best girl ” at a
milliner’s shop in Calcutta, and being struck with
the appearance of the damsel who ministered to
his wants, he pressed upon her a ticket for the big
sweep. The maiden drew Blue Gown, a horse
belonging to Sir Joseph Hawley, who had, in
Rosicrucian and Green Sleeves, two better
favourites in the race. On the eventful day, the
stable jockey, “Tiny” Wells, elected to bestride
Blue Gown, whose sensational win is now history.
When the result reached India, the denuded dude
laid his hand and heart at the feet of the victorious
virgin. This generous offer the meritorious mil-
liner declined, she having previously sworn to be
good and true to “ some other fellow,” and as soon
as the easily-earned pieces were gathered in,
the lucky young couple took the first step towards
the solution of the conundrum “Is Marriage a
failure ?”
* * *
Who, we wonder, is the toad-eater who
works up Sydney social items for a Melbourne
paper called Undek the Table ? After a column
description of the town house of a magnate who
is immediately descended from as decent a butcher
as ever wore an apron, he concludes with : “ Alto-
gether, the whole house is almost dreamlike in its
consistent harmony and elegance.” How lovely !
Oh, ye shades of juicy legs of mutton ! Oh, ye
tender and succulent sirloins, which the jolly old
pig-slayer dispensed to surround'ng customers !
* # fl
The Swazle King has had a marrying fit,
says the Komati Observes (South Africa). Last
week he completed the marriage of his fortieth
wife, having, for eight days previously, taken
unto himself one damsel a day. On being asked
by a visitor why he had taken eight wives in eight
days, he explained that, owing to the troubles in
the country, he had had no leisure to go upon, and
had been obliged, through pressure of business, to
delay the interesting events till the very last
moment!
* • •
A moist and unusual accidenb happened to
a well-known and respectably-connected corpse
the other day in New Zealand. While the funeral
procession was passing along the banks of the
deep and swift flowing Molyneux the animal
attached to the one-horse hearse suddenly backed
the whole turn-out into the river and cleared out
at a hand-gallop. The coffin soon re-appeared,
however, and floated serenely and rapidly down
stream, leaving the funeral party very much in
the lurch. A distant relative of the deceased
afterwards declared he distinctly overheard a
chuckle or two emanating from the interior of the
coffln as it floated away. It is not every day a
corpse gets out of the clutches of the undertaker so
easily.
* * *
The Dominican nuns in Adelaide advertise
■in the newspapers for recruits. South Australian
girls do not appear to think marriage a failure.
Even in death the creeda will separate
them. They buried Mr. Dailey in Waverley.
His wife lies in the vault of the Longs at Rand-
wick, where Sir James Martin also reposes. Sir
James’ parents are in the Catholic Cemetery at
Parramatta, and there also, we believe, rest the
father and brother of Mr. Dailey.
• • *
Lawyers are proverbially careless In their
own affairs. An application has been made to the
N.S.W. Equity Court by the trustees of the late
Chief Justice Sir James Martin, to obtain leave
to transfer to the mortgagee some 36 acres of valu-
able land on the Blue Mountains, the mortgage
being bo drawn as to be unintelligible. The state
of Sir James’ pecuniary affairs has taken the
public by surprise. He married into a rich
family, and the gossips had it that his father-in-
lawj on his wedding-day, gave him £20,000, and
on the day he obtained knighthood he got another
£20,000 —and, so said the gossips, when he becatr a
Chief Justice he found another £20,000’ placed td
his credit in the bank. And y ei his worldly
affairs are in a state of chaos.
« • •
The Auckland (N.Z ) Sailors’ Home, which
\yag built and endowed at a cost of £15,000, has
ono solitary lodger just now, although the tariff is
but 15s. per week. , Jack, it appears, recklessly
invests in a bed at 9d., uses the reading-room all
day, but adjourns to a neighbouring Chinese
restaurant where he has his meals for sixpence.
* • -
At latest accounts Sir Salmon Wilson, who
used to serve out damper-dust in battered panni-
kins in Riverina, was the mo3t fulsome of a throng
of first-class grovellers who were tumbling over
each other at Homburg in painful anxiety to do
honour to Tummy of Wales, who is there just
now endeavouring to reduce his adiposity by
means of alkalies and things. Sir Salmon’s
dinners are said to be the best given in Homburg,
and the extent that the ennobled grazier is ‘ ‘ iff
it ” may be goaged by the fact that a witty judgf
says of the Wilson dejeuners : “There might bri
an Honorable or two at the further end of the
table, but round about him were all Earls.” Frond
the foregoing it wili be seen that our old bullock-
punching friend has purchased an entreti into ’igh
life and is walking his flowery little alofie;
• «
“Is marriage a failure ! ” It looks like itj
since man invariably goes through the court to get
at it.
* * #
“The cause of baldness ” was th? titie of a
lecture delivered to Melbourne Y.M.C.A. the
other night. This Marriage Question is about
played out.
• • •
Now’s your chance, cheap philanthropists.
Every donor of £lOO to Melbourne Homu-pathic
Hospital will “ have his name inscribed on a stone
tablet and placed on the wall of the main en-
trance.” They ask for cash and give you a stone
* * •
Adult males are becoming so scarce in
Clunes (Vic ) that when one is seen on the street
the girls stop and say, “ Look! there goes a man!”
• * »
At a fire at Richmond (Vic.) a day or two
back a dead body was rescued and a living child
left to perish. This, we presume, is what people
call saving expenses.
* * »
Ex-Ildlway Commissioner Goodchap is to
be banqueted by his friends in Sydney on 29th
November. All the public are friends of Mr.
Beaugargon, but as his particular intimates are
gentlemen who say excellent things at table and
are thoroughly well versed in the art of eating and
drinking, the dinner promises to be one of the
most peasant and enthusiastic affairs ever held in
Australia.
♦ * •
The proprietors of the S M. Heralk,
having—from our standpoint very foolishly, if
the transaction involved an expenditure of ovtr
fourper.ce—bought the copyright for Australia
of !S:r Morell Mackenzie’s work, “The Fatal
Illness of Frederick the Noble,” commenced last
Saturday by publishing in their ponderous paper
nearly five cheerful columns about tumours, and
forceps, and actual cauteries, and catarrhal inflam*
mations, and lobulated growths, and mucous
membranes, and warts, and excrescences, and
stethoscopes, and longitudinal elastic fibres, and
all the rest of it. We are told that the late Em-
peror’s throat was “ an isolated nest of epithelial
cells—a cell-nest, in fact, in the midst of proli-
ferating epithelium,” and we notice that at one
stage “there was still some slight congestion of
the left ary-epiglottic fold.” What have we of
democratic Australia got to do with the late German
Emperor and his sacred Imperial throat? Wearen’t
German subjects, and if we were, we’d very likely
riot have been on visiting terms with the departed
personage whose alleged virtues this much-adver-
tised docbor Mackenzie has been hired by some
vain-glorious women to puff. And as we aren’t
surgeons, we feel no more interest in the five
preliminary columns of medical jabber than we
would fesl in a five-column report of a midwifery
case. Nor have we any concern whatever
with the paltry and ignoble squabbles of a
lot of title-hunting leeches who, had they
A TALE OF THE EXHIBITION.
It) vfis on ;the, Switchback Railway, oh a rare
\ romantic night, ,
When thp moon was shining brightly with its
, soothiDg silver light,
That I s,at beside a damsel of a fair and modest
iijj 1 } i '
With a bashful and retiring look as isn t often seen.
Bo before the car was started, in my most effective
itone, . t, t
I asked her was ehe not afraid to ride there all
alone? ■) , ), .>
Then she blushed a rosy, pretty blush and said her
brother Bill
Had said there wasn’t any fear so long as she sat
still.
I supposed that brother Bill was like all younger
modern men,
And much preferred somebody else’s sister now
and then ;
So I said, “ Never mind, fair maid, I’ll strive his
place to fill,
You stick to me, my pretty lass, I’ll be your
brother Bill.”
And, faith, she did; for when the car went rattling
o’er the line
With a fast and faster motion, down a shooting
sharp incline,
She clung to me with nervous dread and screamed
a startled scream,
I put my arm around her waist and felt—as in a
dream.
Oh! is there ever any joy to be compared with
this—
To calm and soothe a nervous maid, and steal a
moonlit kiss ?
But joys are fleeting, bliss is brief, and though I
felt in clover,
Ere it was fairly realised, that rattling ride was
over.
She bashfully declined again, and said she must
away ;
She quickly slid into the crowd, whilst I was left
to pay.
But all at once I missed my purse—perhaps I'd let
it fall—
But next I missed my watch and chain—and then
I saw it all.
I sought her through the crowded show, and
watched for her in town ;
But it was all in vain, for ehe had fairly done me
brown.
Ye good young men who love the girls, take warn-
ing now, I pray;
Don’t try it on with bashful maids, they’ve such a
taking way.


Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they oan get those useful artioles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Ckown Pbrfumbry Co.’s
Btands in the Melbearao Exbibltl««, All Melbourne
is on this SoeDt.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whitb
Patbnt Rollkr Flour. It is the greatest suooess of the
age.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the prioe very low.
A man was charged with embezzlement In
Hobart the other day—he having sold manure,
straw, etc., belonging to his employer and kept
the money. When plaintiff gave his evidence he
mentioned that he was seriously ill at the time
the robbery occurred, and afterwards, when the
counsel for accused enquired : “ Did you see that
man take the manure away ?” he replied, “Didn't
I tell ye just now that I was on my dying bed ?”
Which his name is Hogan.
When next you bake try Pemell'e Snow-whitb Patbni
Rollbb Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
been dealing with the case of a poor labourer
in the hospital instead of with that of the
head of a house of blood-soaked tyrants in a
palace, would have had never an angry word
over the affair. They would have pulled their
,man through, or if they hadn’t, they would haVe
ealmly cut his throat As an experiment in laryngeal
furgery, arid then have dissected his body in the
interests of general anatomy. We want to know
|il about tea-meetings and love-feasts and so on,
.and not about other people’s throats,; in this .hot,
dry weather we have just as much as we can do to
look after our own throat.
• * *
j “Last Saturday,” says one of the daily
paper scribesses, “Lady Carington was present at
jihe Industries all day, lunchirg there, and in the
afternoon delivering the priz=s to some of the
numerous prize-takers.” “All day there lunching”
—and on that cookery, too! How ill poor Lady
Carington must be !
The Duke of Manchester may possibly
succeed Sir William Jervois as Governor of N Z.
Once an Australian Governor was a plain mister,
then there came a knight or two, then a courtesy
lord, then a baron or two, now we have risen to
ishe dignity of a duke. Should Manchester come,
it ought to be a condition of his appointment that
lie should take no share in company-promoting
during his glorious reign.
. «
Chief Justice t)ar|ey appears to have
achieved his heart’s desire. „ Through his orders,
parried out by more or less insolent petty officials,
the elaborate benches of the Sydney Supreme
Court are daily empty The Judges may appear
in millinery as gorgeous as was ever worn by the
most tawdry-minded fribble, and precious words
of wit and wisdom (all judges are witty and wise)
may drop from their lip 3 like lies from the lips of
the common or garden lawyer, but there are no
listeners —nobody to hear the “ wholesome fun,”
nobody to worship the full-bottomed wig. Even
Chief Justice Hatley’s references to the late Mr.
Dailey were reeled off in the presence of only half-
a dozen members of the Bar and a reporter or two.
Time was in Sydney when individuals of the
leisured class dropped into the courts to enjoy an
argument or listen to a speech, and the judgep,
notably Sir James Martin, were pleased to see
them. But now, with the fear of Sheriff Cowper’s
bum-bailiffs-from-the-Soudan, the public keep
carefully away. However, perhaps it’s just as
well. We have never heard any one of the
Supreme Court judges perpetrate either a joke or
a piece of wisdom for which the cashier of this
journal would give fourpence even were that four-
pence payable by a 20 years’ bill bearing one
peppercorn per century interest.
*
It is remarkable how the wives of Mel-
bourne land-sharks—the new nobility of dirt—are
breaking out into garish splendour at social
functions.
“On the 4th October, by the Ravd. Chas.
Jngamells, Joieph, eldest son of Samuel Law, to
Emma Louisa Caroline, second daughter of Whit-
field Raw.”— (Argus marriage announcement):—
Melbourne has just been suffering from
another hydrophobic scare, and for two clear days
tha little dawgs enjoyed a very sultry time. If a
hungry pup, friendless and alone, sat in the
middle of the road and howled for victuals, all
business was suspended, and every householder
took measures to secure the safety of those near
and dear to him. When the women and children
had been put under lock and key and exhorted to
keep calm, the heads of families formed into bat-
talion, and bore steadily down upon the pup. As
a rule, the army would halt about 10yds. off the
unhappy mongrel, and pay “ s?sh !” This had the
effect either of making the subject foam at the
mouth, or wag its tail in anticipation of getting a
square meal. Thereupon an expert in these matters
—say a man whose uncle in England knew a lady
whose coachman once saw a mad dog after it
was dead—would state that the pup showed
all the symptoms of rabies, and the best way to
prevent the disease from spreading was to fetch a
policeman. By this time several policemen
generally arrived with drawn truncheons, and
began to investigate the case. But as no Austra-
lian policeman has ever seen a mad dog, none of
them ever found out anything for certain, except
that the pup appeared to be guilty of insulting
behaviour. Under pressure they therefore killed
the dog with bricks flung from afar off, unless it
had already succumbed to an attack of nervous
excitement aggravated by an empty stomach.
This criminal idiocy prevailed in Melbourne for
48 hours, after which the fever left them and
reason returned. And now when a homeless
dawg howls it is customary to give the animal a
bone. The symptoms are immediately suppressed.
• * •
Walking aboub Melbourne in a state of
much doubt and uncertainty is a young man from
New Zealand, who appears to be “engaged to a
young lady of that country”—colour not stated.
He wants to get married, but owing to the stag-
nation of commerce in N.Z. he would like his
pansy-blossom to cross the briny waters in pursuit
of her nuptial bliss. Under these circumstances
the young man has put his interesting case before
the Melbourne Herald Must he post the pas-
sage money to his bride-elect, or ought her parents
to ship her over at their own risk, free of charge ?
The gifted Winter, after considering this matter
in all its bearings, thinks that freight must be
paid this end, and the young man can’t exactly
decide whether his loving heart will run to it, or
not.
Mr. Melton Prior, of the Illustrated
London News, after seeing Mrs. J. H. White
(Miss Myra Kemble) on Flemington Lawn on
Derby day, said (according to the lady correspon-
dent of a Sydney daily papsr) that she was “ the
handsomest woman in the colonies.” We do not
propose to cavil in any way at this decision, which
will have many people to back it up, but who, we beg
to inquiah, has made Mr. Melton Priah aforesaid
an arbiter of beauty ? Mr. Priah, as far as we
remember, is not a beautiful woman, nor is he a
particularly beautiful man. However, perhaps he
may be regarded as a competent judge of beauty
on the principle that outsiders see most of the
game.
Another Eve puts forth her hand
To pluck the sweet forbidden fruit,
The hapless matrimonial band
Receives another Raw recruit;
Oh ! may she find her Joseph free
In all respects from speech or flaw,
So worthy that ’twill ever be
Her pleasure to obey the Law,
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Nov. 7, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Lord Carnarvon, who, you may remember, came out to
the Land of the Golden Fleece not so very long ago, at
Newbury (Eng.), on a recent occasion, “highly praised
the energy and force of the Australian character,
and also referred to the entire absenoe of pauperism in
the colonies.” Aw ! A pauper is somebody who is sup-
ported by the State, isn’t it? Don’t we support anybody ?
The 31st ult. was a “ command ” night at Sydney
Criterion, when “Bubbles” and “In Cbanoery” over-
flowed the bill, and the presence of Lord and Lady Caring-
ton and suite overflowed the house. Lady Carington, in
the best possible spirits, even after the weary treadmill eo
recently gone through at the W.I E , was oharming in
pale-blue, the decolette corsage being simply edged with a
pale-blue ruohe, and one large souvenir rosebud and foliage
in the front. A pale-blue aigrette, gemmed with diamonds,
in the hair, diamond bangles, three strings of seed-pearls
round the throat, and a pale-blue, band-painted satin fan
with mother-o'-peail sticks, completed an airy tout
ensemble. The circle was dressed in its best. A well-
known sooiety girl was a vision in white silk, with a
cluster of pale roses at the pointed corsage—white feather
fan. Maggie Knight was in the stage-box and was per-
fectly “fetohing” in white silk and lace, tan gloves,
white aigrette, and diamonds h-re and there; while on
the stage Ida Herbert wore an artistic muslin frock with
a long old-gold sash. Myra Kemble was perfectly
“groomed” in pale-grey cloak with gloves and high
sai'or hat marvellously matching. Miss Kemble's dressing
is a green spot in a thirsty land, atd when she is on with
“’em all on” half the women in the house forget the
play to speculate on the wonderful fit of her jacket.
Here is a little miserable poem, but it is all mine own:—
There are many woes in Life’s sad plan
And our joy is with sorrow rifted ;
But most I pity the bioycling man
Who find 3 his cork-calves have shifted.
I heard a good thing the other day about a Melbourne
householder who wished to shunt hie eoetly and merely
ornamental “ slavey,” but found that slavey refused to be
evicted. As he couldn’t turn her out by foroe, he went
to an adjacent “polis ossifer,’ and, in stating the dismal
case, told him the woman’s name. X., for a marvel, was
“ aqual to the oooashun, sorr; ” he bounced into the
kitohen and balled out: “Ph vat ? it’s ye, is it, Ann ! Oi
know ye 1 Out wid ye at onst! ” As it happened he
didn’t know her at all, but the plan worked capitally, and
Ann shot out into the yard as if the whole legal force of
Victoria were behird her. “ A guilty conscience,” &o.
In speakiDg of the haughty and distant ways of a certain
lady, Mrs. Malaprop is understood to have said that she
considers her manners very preserved.
A pretty girl was looking in a Sydney florist’s window
the other morning when up to her ambled the customary
sheep in wolf’s clothing, who asked her if she didn’t think
them lovely and wouldn’t she like some of them ?
“ Perhaps,” she replied with spirit—” but the window is
full cf green, and it would be superfluous to buy any as
the stre et also seems full of it. Good morning.” Then
she smiled adorably and passed on.
One of the artists connected with the Picturesque Atlas
Co. has presented Lady Carington with a book containing
that world wide hymn, “ From Greenland’s icy moun-
tains,” illustrated by himself in a number of daintily-
conceived drawings of “Greenland’s icy mountains,”
<« India’s coral strand,” and so on. The book is not for
sale, as only two copies were published.
On 2!Hh ult. the Women’s Industrial Exhibition closed
its ehutters, and the tired males of the community can
now sink back without being prodded from behind by
fierce females, who would snortingly inquire whether men
were so greatly superior after all. No doubt the show
was very creditable—so far as it went—to our kind, but
I'm sure the lords of creation must have become very
weary of having our perfections so constantly and
belligerently catalogued, as if for their express mortifica-
tion ! Men, I think, always applaud any woman who “ gets
there jet the spirit of the Women’s Exhibition always
seemed to me to force men to praiss when the poor thiDga
had every intention of doing eo. However, the show is
over now—its conclusion was signalized by an auction,
the bidding at which was pretty lively as one devoted
snob parted two sovereigns for a small pot of gauva jam
presented to Lady Carington on her last trip to Norfolk
Island by a descendant of one of the mutineers of the
“Bounty.” Lady Carington’s reasons for parting with
the preserve aren’t to hand, and if that child of nature in
the far-off and historic isle who presented it comes to hear
of her giving it away, she will feel so bad about it that it
may make a red republican of her.
The first night of Mr. Sidney Dickenson’s series of
pictures called “ Kosmotechnieka ” eventuated at Sydney
New Masonic Hall on the 29th ult., in the presence of a
culchawed mob. Most of the women present wore walk-
ing dress, and, as the average Australian female doesn’t
seem to be happy without trimmings, the effeot on the
“ awjenoe ” wasn’t so lovely as it would have been if it
had worn pink roses in its hair. The president of the
N.S.W. Art Society and his amiable better-half oocupied
front seats with unstudied grace ; various very fat women
wore point-lace and tried to look intelligent; while several
toilers in the vineyard sat about with strioken expres-
sions, as if looking at “ Kos ” were a new way of subduing
the “old man.” The pictures shown were all Italian—
and wasn't it glorious to hear “ travelled” Sydney behind
one, audibly—oh, so audibly !—remarking: “ Oh, the
darling Coliseum I Do you remember the day we went
to see it ?' or, “ Oh, that sweet Last Supper of Da Vinei!
Don’t you remember how long we stayed ga/ing at the
original ?” and so on, right through the series. Bless
them 1 ,
, Lady Musgraye left Queensland on the 30th ult. by the
Jumna, and I am told that the leave-taking was very
watery scene. Ladies who had only penetrated into the
vjoe-regal reception rooms on “mob” days,wept on one
another’s shirt fronts as if parting from a dear friend, and
gentlemen who had only raised their beavers to her lady-
ship in a sort of general hommage aux grandee dames
sort of way, you understand, sniffed audibly amongst
cpils of rope and an odour of tar as if to meltingly infer
that “ Demme! a fellar can’t help regretting a real friend,
yer know.” Indeed there were enough tears shed to float
the Jumna half-way to Yewrope, and, as a way of working
off any shreds of grief that may remaiD, the ladies of
Brisbane intend presenting Lady Musgrave with either a
bust or photo, of the late Sir Anthony.
On the fenoe round the ladies’ baths at a certain much-
advertised Sydney seaside resort the peculiar inscription
appears: “Blackguards are requested to peep through at
the ladieA, gentlemen will walk on.” (
A oorrespondent requests rqe to submit that the Yass
(N.S.W.) Social Assembly held its final reunion on a reoent
date when everything—from the girls to the gingerbeer -
was altogether lovely., k v , ,
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was, a Melbourne correspon-
dent informs me,, filled to qverflowing op the occasioq of
the wedding of Miss Alice Crooke, of Toorak, and Dr.
Charles Lempriere. The bride was supported by four
bridesmaids—the two elder in white serge and the two
younger in white Bilk frooks. The church was simply a
bower of flowers, the seats reserved for the wedding party
being signalised by the extremely novel and charming
device of horseshoes of white blossoms.
The wedding of Mies Florrie Woods and Mr. John Dean
eventuated in the drawing-room of the bride’s parents at
“ Fairligbt," Manly, some day s ago. Three bridesmaids,
attired respectively in pink, cream, and blue silk, lent
tbeir moral support to the bride, who, in going away,
wore a very stylish get-up of fawn-oheok summer tweed
with maize and gold gimp for adornment, hat en suite.
The enumeration of all the guests present would be im-
possible, as 100 sat down to the breakfast.
I am requested to state that the fifth ladies' concert of
the Sydney Orpheus Club takes place at the Y.M.C.A. on
the 7th inst. ; that the Balmain regatta eventuates on the
9th inet. ; that the North Shore regatta (“ under the dis-
tinguished patronage,” &c.) is to take plaoe at Middle
Harbour on the 17th inst., and that the Southern Amateur
Theatrical Sooiety (under the presidentship of the Hon.
R. 11. D. White) gives its inaugural performance on the
21st inst.
S.M.H. agony ad.: —
rpOUCHSTONE.—Sweep number, 110; remember
Pretty Joey; will see you as on Thursday, at
11.30.
“Sweep number, 110,” “Pretty Joey,” “See you at
11.30.” Poor Touchstone ! 1
A Hobart correspondent writes telling me about a senti-
mental and awkward contretemps that eventuated at a
recent Tasmanian festivity, in which a pair of meek and
peaceful lovers were reduced to a state bordering on
ferocity by an earring. It seems they had left the ball-
room to turtle through the sylvan glades and count the
stars in the dark sky, and discuss the Chinese question
and otherwise bthave after the manner of their kind, and
when they returned to the whirl of gladness, carefully
entering the ball-room by opposite doors and each with an
air of careless rectitude, in the gentleman's beard huDg
and sparkled a small diamond drop, the companion to
which was observable in the shell-pink lobe of the lady !
The biiariousness of their greeting apprised the couple
that there was a screw loos3 somewhere and—the rest is
so covered with burning blushes that the narrative is un-
intelligible.
It was remarked at one espec'ally fashionable Sydney
suburban church where, usually, beautifully-attired and
exctßtivtly-devoted ladies and devout gentlemen sit in
rows and reverently murmur the responses while the
high-toned cleric puts down everything with a high hand,
and grey-haired deacons patrol the aisle with eyes cast
heavenwards and the plate held out—it was, I was going
to say, remarked that on the Sunday preceding Cup day
the sacred edifice was almost deserted. The pious dames
and devout gentlemen were absent, and the grey-haired
deaoons were replaoed by young men, novices in ihe art,
who tripped over the haesceks. All this had only one
exegesis—Melbourne Cup—and if aDy of those deaoons back
the favourite very heavily, when they get back don’t let
them hold the plate I
Brisbane (Q.) is a seemingly quiet place, but there is an
amount of hidden wiokedness in it enough to sink a P.
and O. For instance, a Brisbane weekly coolly has this :
Plurality of Wives —An old subscriber, who has
evidently become deeply enamoured of the now much-
spoken-of Mahometan religion, has seriously asked us
to advocate the adoption of the principles of that re-
ligion as far as the plurality of wives is concerned.”
Wouldn’t it be fun if Queensland did embrace polygamy
Taen, if any man in Sydney insinuated that the steak was
burnt he would find his wife scurrying Tenterfield way in
search of some affectionate elder to whom one more or
less didn’t matter so long as he was happy ; and fathers in
full chase after runaway daughters would oatch up to
them only to discover that they were the 27 bh part of
Smith of the Darling Downs ! The idea of Brigham
Young-ism seems rather novel as applied to the “kaw-
linies,” and yet, though Mormonism is not an avowed
principle in Australia, lots of people oarry on like ilders
don’t they, dear ?
As most of the gowns sported at any very great
social funotion are cut en Directoire, I intend here to
describe what the style is for the benefit of those who
don’t know. It resembles a frock cut like a redingote
as to the skirt, with bodice loose-fronted and reach-
ing to the waist only. The edge of the bodice is
quite straight, and joins to the ekirt part a little in
front of the hips. The front or jupe, as well as the
vest, is of some contrasting material. The waist from the
side seams is girthed with a wide full sash—and there you
are! Apropos of fashions, sashes are universal—they are
wide and long and are mostly made of soft silk. Enormous
hats of the most eccentric shape are also favoured, while
bonnets are the tiniest of the tiny and mostly wholly
constructed of artificial flowers, whioh are now perfect
imitations, makers of artificials being careful to imitate
even the odour of the bloom copied ! I read, the other
day, of someone wearing “ a boa of Russian violets so
perfectly scented and imitated that the most experienced
would vow they were real.” What a lovely adjunct!
Whenever I wish to discover the whichness cf the why
or the whereforeness of the how, I always fly to the
Sydney Morning Herald. In a recent article in that
journal headed “ A Man’s Talk to Women,” the writer
touched largely on the neck-or-nothing manner in whioh
Sydney femininity had worked up the cause of the W.1.E.,
explaining: “ I believe you have laboured more success-
fully in this cause because there worked with you and led
you that gentle lady who, at Government House, has
borne her share of the trials of office.” Quite so: the
average snobbish Sydney female will work hereelf blind
fieaf, and idiofjic, to get, up pn a dais and “ howcye " Lady
C'arington. in the eye of a aobi
A Northern official, who died lately in Sydney, met
with an Enooh Ardenjsh adventure during bis career-
only he did not play Enoch, and thp fellow who did had
not read our Baron Laureate, or, if he had, he did not ap-
preciate him. Toe official fel| a victim to a foreign
widow's charms. She fulfilled Joe Gargery’s notion of a
“fine figure cf a woman,” and, with the interposition of
Hymen and the arrival of a male olive branch, the matri-
monial stream was flowing very evenly indeed, until the
re-appearance on the scene of the soi-disant widow's lost
husband, who claimed his spouse. Death at length
carried off husband No. 1, but No. 2 called in no priestly
aid a second time, though it is strange he was on a visit
to his whilom wife at the time of his decease.
Some one advertises in the S. M. Herald for a “ house-
maid, those who wear the fringe need not apply.” Another
infringement of the liberty of the subject 1
“ Parasols or the new umbrellas are now ohen given.by
bridegrooms as presents to bridesmaids,” says a Mel-
bourne fashioji writer. The bride provides her own huB-
- I suppose.
“Kurrajong ” me from Tasmania tba^,the, towp
of Richmpnd, in the Tight Little Island, is happy ip the
possession of a debating society, which met lately to
decide whether or pot capital punishment should,,he
abolished.,, A isitqrs were invited to hear the debate, and*
in addition to half the male residents, quite a number of
ladies put in an appearance. , The local medico led off
with an able speeoh in favour of the existing system of
butchery, but when his opponent should bave taken up
the other side of the question a deep silence ensued. The
presence of the fair visitors had deprived the “ opposi-
tion ” of its power of speeoh, although ore member bad
prepared copious notes to as-iet his oratory. After a long
“ wait ” the doctor delioately suggested that some of the
ladies should give their views on the subject of hanging,
but they kindly refrained from taking the shine out cf
their mental superiors. The meeting was adjourned at an
abnormally early hour.
A correspondent also writes that Mr. Alfred Crisp,
Mayor of Hobart, gave a most successful juvenile fancy-
dress ball on Oot. 23rd, at which about 500 juveniles—ages
varjiugfrom 2 to 25 years—were present. His worship
appeared in his official robes with a woeful deficiency of
c»lf; Mrs. Crisp wore crimson plush and her eldest
daughter received the youthful guests dressed as “ Par-
tbenia” in palest pink cashmere, looking exceedingly
pretty ; while Miss Lorna Crisp, aged 2, made a lovely
little Lily of the Valley. Lady Hamilton was there in black
velvet, carrying a huge bouquet, and her daughter Mary
was “ Mary quite Contrary.” The handsomest costumes
were worn by Misses Kelly and Elliott and Master Kelly,
who were pocket-editions of Queen Elizabeth, Amy Rob-
sart and Earl of Leicester respectively. Britannia was
well represeated and a diminutive Red Riding Hood
danced beautifully and was made muoh of by the Governor
and his wife, while the gipsies who usid to be “ Maritanas ”
this time were “ Miss Esmeraldas.”
Just now everybody is speculating as to the lawn-show
at Melbourne on Cup Day—everybody left in Sydaey, I
mean, and sorry am I to be one of the latter, especially as
I—who have been blocked by a combination of circum-
stances too numerous to mention—bad fully intended to
be over the border. However, there is consolation in the
thought that, as I bave stayed bshind, I bave not to
prance round with my “ portalanchew” (as many of the
Sydcey nobility pronounca it) clamouring for shelter and
filling none, as has been the fate of dozens who are now
in marvellous Melbourne. Tae ladies of one party from
Sydney had to camp at the lailway station for several
hours while pa tore round distractedly demand'ng aocom-
modat'on for “myself, three trunks and their lad;e3," in
an unconscious irony of lapsus lingual. The trip over,
too, was not exactly effeminate luxury foe the bloated
first-class travel er, for comfortless seoond-olass carriage s
had a rug tossed over their hard, straight seats, a piece of
drugget thrown down the centre, and wore then dubbed
“first class” by an a’l-wise Department, whioh can give
Shakes-bacon points in being able to discover what a lot
there is in a name. Every train was loaded, to make
matters more comfortable, and, to give an idea cf the
tremendous crush, I may mention that the eight speeials
which left here on the Ist instant carried 1200 peop'e !
Lady Carington did not go over to participate in “ Vic*
toria’s great raoing carnival” this year, but left Lord
Carington, Lord Hastings, and Mr, Burroughes to repre-
sent the floating aristocratic “pop” of N. S Wales
Whilst at Melbourne the Baron atd "sweet” duti
fully attended a garden party at Government House
on Nov. 2, when the enormous total of 3000 guests mobbed
the gubernatorial residenee, trod on one another's heels,
and left a locust-like after-effect in tbe.vice-regal pantry.
Melbourne is, of course, very gay just now—the Aus-
tralian Club ball, the Melbourne Club ball, a rose ball, and
an evening party at Government House figuring pro-
minently on a carte of dissipation.
One of Sydney’s gushing sooiety scribesses recently
talked vaguely about a ball “given by the late popular
wife of an ex-governor of” so-and-so. As the lady in
question is neither defunct nor unpopular, the elimination
of the first qualifying adjective is imperatively demanded,
don’t you think ?
High-toned and guileless sentimentality, from the 8. M.
Herald :
"|YT ATRIMONY. Young British Gentleman, age 30,
handsome, fair, income £5OO a year, resident in
French colony, desires to correspond with well-con-
nected young lady, Protestant; private income unob-
jectionable, must have A 1 references; kindly send
carte, utmost confidence. This is genuine. Address
“ Alocbio,” Sydney Morning Herald.
“ Alochio,” you see, is hot captious, be actually does not
“object” to a private income! Equable individual! A
man like that could even forgive his wife for being an
heiress !
A hapless idiot, disguising himself in a four-word nom-
de-plume, wrote recently to a daily paper suggesting that
as women had had an exhibition men should have one
also. Brilliant suggestion, isn’t it? Are we not always
having “ Men's Exhibitions ? ” Who run shows like our
“International," Adelaide “Jubilee” and Melbourne
“ Centennial ” exhibitions, but men? The airer of this
idea signs himself “ One Who Would Compete.” Well,
why isn’t he competing now with his fellows across the
border and not writing silly “ suggestions ” that raise the
tierce displeasure of your affeotionately,
Sappho Smith ?
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Offioe.]


A RADICAL REFORM
! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
aro as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
indeed, is the home where “washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“boiling” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
The two above-described “Steaming” .md
“ Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaining suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
tierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ’
A customer of ours calls the ohange, “ Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 48fi George Street,
SYDNEY.
M ELA O RINO.
This most Celebrated Brand ol
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Sfelachrino .1 Co., Cairo, and 21 Cockspur
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dues of Con-
naught, H.R.H. Prince Henry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
„ ARMY and NAVY
CLUB
London
„ GUARDS’ CLUB
„ CARLTON CLUB
London
London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY}
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
M
BLACK WATCH
...
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
COLDSTREAM
GUARDS
Windsor
„ ROYAL ENGINEERS}'
„ LIFE GUARDS ... :
Chatham, Alder
shott and Cairo.
London
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
warreiT& rown,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
mm, MANILLA and HENMAN CIGARS,
ALSO
£3T Sole Agents Tor the 4'ad cine no Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Ooorß open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
IN 1 HE GREAT AND POPULAR PLAT
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Prices, 55., Bs., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
lessee. Mr. S. Lazar j Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
AS
MAB| in (MINER’S DAUGHTER.
MABJ the (MINER’S DAUGHTER.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
R I TE R 1 ON THEATK E.
Sole P/oprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
POWERFUL COMEDY COMPANY
in
Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN MBRIYALE S
IRRESISTIBLE COMEDY
THE BUTLER. THE BUTLER.
THE BUTLER. THE BUTLER.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Satubday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked foi
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Pionioß, &o
ALFRED WYBURD. Manager
MA AAA given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbanb
3>iU)U«U Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents —A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
The Foreign and Colonial Exchange Bank of
Australasia, Limited.
REGISTERED OFFICE : CIRCULAR QUAY.
Travellers to other parts of the world are in-
formed that they can obtain coins and notes of all
nations, also circular notes of exchange, negotiable
throughout Europe and America and in the chief
seaport cities and capitals of Asia and Africa, at
the above address. This bank undertakes the ex-
change of money of all nations, and all usual
banking business. T. S. RICHARDSON,
Managing Director.
IGH ART PHOTOGRAPHY.
For artistic posing and effective lighting com-
bining softness with brilliancy, the Photographs
of
CHAELIZMIOISTT <Sc CC.,
Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Carington
“ By Appointment.”
BOSISTO’S ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the best Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable for broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s *• Parrot ” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only lead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Bosisto’s “ Parrot ” brand.
s. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Eitho'i Bakins 1 Poidm, Orient Sanare Bine,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD A OASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. FEBSIAK EBEBEET.
Ac., Ac.
STEAM WORKS a
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY
-v 1
m
11l I
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
tar PROFiismv illustrated ia
BY
The Bulletin's well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price - ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
MR. EGERTON CLAIRMONT is no longer
in our einp’oy, nor is he authorised to
canvas for Subscribers or collect Accounts,
Bulletin Newspaper Company, Limited.
A young lady who was attacked by lock
jaw has died in Queensland. Of a broken heart,
we believe.
The cable tells us, in M mday’s papers,
that the Dowager Empress Victoria of Germany
intends paving a visit to her Royal mother, the
Queen of England, this month. Is the term
“ mother ” sufficiently explicit ? Or has the lady
a mother and a Royal mother besides ? Has Mrs.
Barry, late of Bishopscourt, an Episcopalian
husband, and has Lady Carington a Baron one ?
Then, again, it sends us a big “R ” for royal and
a small “m” for mother. The cable is a beastly
toady!
At Manly the other night some of Parkes’
deluded constituents wanted to know, you know,
when that there bridge was agoin’ to be made.
The hirsute compeer of Cobden and Gladstone
said that “ the plans for the bridge were hin pre-
paration, so that the bridge was really being built
while the gentlemen hat the back who ’ad hinter-
rupted ’im were dreaming.” This is Parkes all
over. Bridges on ]taper, railways in the clouds,
and 20s. in the £ in the Greek Kalends.
A masculine guest at the Melbourne Club
ball, which transpired in the Town Hall one night
last week, said that “all the women were dressed
in pink and wore their hair in the same way.”
This is a lamentable illustration of the dead level
to which the dear creatures reduce themselves by
following fashion. A man of untechnical mind
finds it difficult to identify his best girl on t hese
occasions, unless she carries a wart, mole, or straw-
berry-mark upon some undraped portion of her
beloved anatomy.
Christmas Is coming, in anticipation of
which event Mr. Henry King, photographer, of
George-street, Sydney, has published a number of
most artistic and beautiful cards suitable to the
season. The subjects given are such as will give
pleasure to every lover of nature —glimpses cf river
and dell, far away from the busy haunts of man.
“Bits” on the mountains, the Hawkesbury, the
Nepean, and elsewhere, as well as subjects that
will minister to the appetite of the hardy
athlete, the learned ornithologist, and the lover of
flora.
An elderly resident of Albnry (N.S.W.)
states that Pasteur doesn’t know so much as is
generally supposed on the subject of diseases
in cattle. A series of experiments for the cure of
anthrax by inoculation have lately been carried on
at Junee, and the writer denounces these as in-
volving useless expense and offering no possible
solution of the difficulty. The poison which
creates anthrax is propagated chiefly through
grass and water becoming infected by animals
which have died of the disease, infection through
the medium of wounds being exceedingly un-
common, and it is against the latter influence
alone that vaccination offers a defence. No
method has yet been discovered or seems likely
to be discovered which can offer adequate security
against infection through the stomach, and con-
sequently Pasteur’s boasted system merely offers
a defence against a danger which hardly ever
arises. The secret of preventing the spread of
poison through the gastric juices is still undis-
covered, and no one seems to be approaching any
nearer to a solution of the mystery.
Jj'EWTON AN t> LA MB;
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory j
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
FULL' SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
%
„.'ez
m
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of varl.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart*
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
ra
RAWING ROOM CABI
NBTS.
Karly Bnqlibh
Chiffindali Lesions.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFOR ES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
L-
Austrian bint*
WOOD
FURNITURE,
A VIBY OOMPina
ASBOBTIfIEn,
Many quite new designs.
Niwtqn ft Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooma. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
s
Jtt
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CHaIRS, elegant and rest-
ful —a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
T> ED STEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
furniture and pianoforte
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, upholsterers
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRTNO * O'ODNNMLT STREETS


Next WEDNESDAY, 14*h NOVEMBER,
At 12 o’clock,
At the Rooms, 49 Collins-st. West, Melbourne,
Valuable— Freehold Properties,
Situate
Wellington Parade, East Melbourne.
To Speculators, Investors, Syndicates and others.
/ 'i EMMELL, TUCKETT, and Co (in conjunc-
VJT tion with Naylor, Forbes, and Co.) have re-
ceived instructions from Mrs. Hodgson to SELL
by PUBLIC AUCTION, on Wednesday, 14th
November, at 12 o’clock, at their rooms, 49 Collins
Street West,
Lot I.— East Melbourne— All that piece of land
having a grand frontage of 99ft. to
Wellington Parade
by a depth of 82ft. along Powlett Street to a
roadway at rear, upon which is erected
Two Brick Villas,
well and faithfully built. Also, two shops
adjoining the above, let at low rentals to J.
M'Conniche, fruiterer, and Messrs. Haynes,
Boy den, and Wilson, estate agents.
This grand block is one of the finest in
EAST MELBOURNE,
and stands on the very crown of the Parade. The
view from the height of a first floor window is un-
equalled in Melbourne, and owing to the per-
manent reserve for park and domain must te
always uninterrupted. It is situate on the corner
of WELLINGTON PARADE and POWLETT
STREET, and the corresponding corner in this
Block is that occupied by the residence of Sir
W. J. Clarke, Bart,,
Lot 2. —East Melbourne—All that piece of land
having a frontage of 60ft. to
Wellington Parade,
by a depth of 155 ft. to a right-of-way leading
into George-street at rear, and has the further
advantages of the outlet by a 20ft. street lead-
ing to Powlett-street, upon which is erected a
twc-3torey house known as Farleigh, and an
iron cottage.
This property is close to the corner of Powlett-
street, and within easy walking distance through
the Eitzroy Gardens to the City, and the Richmond
tram, the only one connecting with all railway
termini, passes the property every minute, and is
situated immediately opposite the Richmond Pad-
dock, and a very few minutes’ walk from the
Botanical Bardens.
The position of these properties is unequalled in
East Melbourne for position, views, drainage, and
convenience to the City, and both of these sites
are unexceptionable for mansion or coffee palace,
having the unusual advantage of light and ventila-
tion on three sides.
Orders to view the houses must be obtained from
the auctioneers.
Terms liberal. Title perfect.
For particulars of which apply to Messrs. Pavey,
Wilson, and Cohen, solicitors, Queen-street.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Parramatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
Mrs. KNOWALL at SIX O’CLOCK at NIGHT.
u
■ss
It is no good leiling her about the Howk Howe Prepara-
tions, she will have her old way.
“None but the most foolish would ever be without
them.’' —Mrs. A. Sandon, Wome rah Avenue.
£‘4s will be given to any lady solving the problem in this
picture and written matter ; also, £lOOO for better com-
pounds than our own (one month allowed).
Americo Persian Sturcli Polish A Washing
< ream Co., SYDNEY.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
BE WARE OF SPURIOUS IMITATIONS.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE STREET.
GrBD. G-BD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
Western Australia is the Coining Colony,
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
"1 he very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and P I
burra have led me to proolaim goldfields at these plaoes,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will be the beginning of a new
era."—Extract from Governor Broome's speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
I‘IIMII, the ( apital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splen J id posit ion.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO ICUII LOT. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Land. Torrens’ Title.
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is Dearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, !>G Bathurst street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
btgr.es j^2o
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x Gin. deep, patent
sprmg footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. E. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
buckboard
NEWEST INVENTION—GRATEST NOVELTY.
J •-'.y i,
THE
Y>N
Patent Diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
God Hlejda”, New Zealand Exhibition, 1882
Gold medal, Highest Award
For Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award ! ! ! Gold medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 188 G.
Qautiqn —Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “ Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
1
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
E2T THURSDAY NOVEMBER 15.
AT ROOMS. AT TWELVE O’CLOCK
ROYAL HOTEL,
ESPLANADE and ROBE STREET,
ST. KTL D A, MELBOURNE.
i . i.
Without doubt the < handed Bay Frontage
Submitted to Public Competition.
('i -T. and T. HAM (The Mercantile Finance,
J• Trustees, and Agency Co. cf Australia,
Limited) are instructed by the trustees tf the
estate of the late James Moonev, Esq to SELL
by FI BL.IC AUCTION, on Thursda}’, Novem-
ber 15, at the rooms, 45 Swanston-stn et>, at 12
o’clock, that very valuable and splendidly posi-
tioned piece cf land having a frontage of
Tllfft. to the C SI’LAN AIIK f£Ji
BY A GRAND DEPTH OR
32»ft. along KOBE &TKEET,
on which is erected that commodious and well-
known establishment,
TH cd EOIAL HOT EX,
containing 35 rooms, bar, cellar, kitchen, &c.;
with stabling for 20 horses, coachhouses, &c ; also,
on Robe-street frontage, two W.B. Cottages of
seven rooms each.
This magnificent property occupies a site which,
without exaggeration, may be deemed
THE BEST IN VICTORIA,
being positioned on a splendid elivation, from
which the eve commands the
ENTIRE EXPANSE OF THE LAY,
with its immediate foreground of the Pier, the
Bathp, and Fashionable Promenade, beyond which
the waves’ crested beauty is enhanced by the pass-
ing of white-winged yachts, while across the
further expanse of “ the waters blue,’’ the eye rests
on the background formed by the You Yargs and
Arthur’s Seat.
The present buildings, though comfortable and
commodious, are inadequate to the grandeur of
the position, and to the extent and importance of
the business connected with this widely-famed
hostel. There is no doubt that by the erection cf
A PALACE HOTEL
on a site which for accessibility, elevation, fashion-
able location, beauty of outlook, and general excel-
lence of surroundings is absolutely unrivalled,
a magnificent business and handsome fortune could
be speedily realised.
There is every probability that during the
coming summer we will have an immense influx
of visitors, and in order that the purchaser shall
not lose the benefit of the season the vendors will
give
IMMEDIATE POSSESSION!
The Stock and Furniture can be taken at
valuation.
For further particulars and cards to view apply
at the Rorm of the Auctioneers, 45 Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
The PRESTON PARK ESTATE
S'STXTIDXC-S.-T’E.
TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ STATUTE 1864.
£69,000, in 25 Shares of £2760 each.
Payable as follows: —£360 prr £ hare on Application, and the balance in < qual B)lls of One
Two and Three Yeats, bearitg Interest at rate of 6 per cent, per annum
This Syndicate is being formed for the purpose of purchasing and subdividing 265 Acres of Land situate at corner of the mdn
High-street and another main read. This property has an extersive main road tr<. ntage of about one and a half miles, is within 200
or 300 yatds of the Railway Station and is in the centre of the coming T wnship and immediately oppesite the Recreation Ground,
State School, Post Office, Public Hali, Church, etc.
The position of the land is simply perfection, being in the best part of this lovely district and of a charmingly undulating
character. It is land that mu-t undoubtedly be largely sought for in sub-division. The \ i ws to be obtained from this property
cannot be surpassed.
The sub division may be proc;eded with almost immediately. There will be an immense main road frontage, and the estimated
profit to the Syndicate is about 100 per cent, on the nominal capital.
The Vendors have agreed to sell the property for £69,000, which is about £260 per acre, the terms, to be £360 cash each
share deposit, and the balance by promissory not s at one, two and three years, bearing interest at rate of 6 per cent, per annum, with
o ption to pay cash at any time with full rebate of interest.
A copy of the agreement under which this property has been acquired can be seen at the (flices of the Solicitors, Messrs,
Tuthil, Geoghegan and Perry, 19 Queen-street, Melbourne.
It is anticipated that only the first instalment of the purchase money will be required.
In submitting this land the Vendors have the fullest confidence in its progressive character. Land all around this favourite
locality is being rapidly taken up. The “Preston Park Estate Syndicate” will rank second to none in the district for popularity, its
convenience to the new Ea’lway Station, which is a settled fact, making it of such easy access, and the position of the land marking it-
•out as one of the most beautiful spots near Melbourne.
Application for Shares to be made to
THOMAS SWEETMAN , Auctioneer, 1 Collins Strest, Melbourne.


-Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
arbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Uiirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
*ar EVERY REQUISITE "Si
at r,
PRICES WHICH DEFY COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM
BRAND of
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
FROM
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
Craig l Aitken,
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
JO- PuTO^Hyi^PosTEI^^AppUOATION.
SOME ANCIENT AZTEC CAEYINGS.
Supposed to represent the first missionaries preaching to the inhabitants.—N.Y. Life.)
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site,
Evkrleigh Estate, Perth, West Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans. W. J. Douglas. 9(1 Bathurst-st., Sydney.
From the agony column of Sydney News :
~V\7 ILL Gentleman that gave boy change 23. piece,
'' Friday morning, Marion-street, call upon dis-
tracted mother, Spencer-lane off Botany-rd., Water-
loo ?
We conclude from this that the boy didn’t bring
the right change home to his distracted mother,
and she wants to see about it.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
William’s Australian Insecticide Is death to all lnseots.
Simple In application—sure In efteot. * This Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being oertaln death to
all kinds of inseots, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaoeutioal Chemist, 2G7 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser A Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 110 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near King.street.*
E.C
BTI FY
KB MSBB feaSTS i
<3
v
&
£
OX£
PXv
'C
v
$
■<s-
X*
o
&
V-
r\ / <0
<f.
r/A:
s>-
rS.
PXX
O
HV^/rA/A
e>
*
®x o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNET
The total amount paid in dividends so far
by the Broken Hill Proprietary Silver-mining Co.
of N.S. Wales is £536,000; bonuses from the sale
of part of the mine amounted to £570,000. The
total amount of Bilver produced amounted to
0,500,0000 z. The total value of metals obtained
from the mine up to date is about £1,500,000.
The company has on hand 19,000 tons of coke,
valued at £71,000, which is better than a reserve
fund. The company hope to find a market for
lead in China and the East, and will have no
difficulty in disposing of their silver.
The hull of a missing ship was discovered,
the other day, on one of the coral-reefs about 100
miles from Rockhampton (Q ). Apparently it
had lain there for many weeks, and was slowly
rotting to pieces. Traces here and there showed
that the survivors had built habitations of some
kind on the reef and had camp°d there waiting
for something to turn up, but what had become of
them or whether anything had ultimately turned
up is not known. Probably they had hung out
for days and weeks within comparatively short
range of a police-station and the other appliances
of civilisation, only to drop off at last in disgust
and be swallowed up by the sea.
Centennial Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Showeb-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS! BILLIARDS!
THIS Hotel is now opened, and admitted to be
the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers.
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
T>
K
ei
O
H*
s
9 Tt
s
T
O
U
JkoZUTS ,
DELISSAs, PHILLIPS
' 3&J Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANT
■O. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
• I
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYIN6 OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tha Bast Manufacturing Machlnaa In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS
18 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
■tla igsati lot the above lot New Sooth Wales aid Qaeeoslaad.
Alto Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details,
Imported Leathers, &o. j and of the following Speoial Lines j—PEERLESS GLO!
HTinUK B|, 4eKTMO . T'inl. .»•> U.w.ltli,
Including Machinery,
IS. SATIN POLISH!
m* WvonvaMt Ts-mi
DR. RICHARDS
RO
LT
D?RIC HARDS
W,
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chiel
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the. eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of careful ly-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves*
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spring Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Free.


Business Announcements.
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
BRUNTO ITS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Dm be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY w M k. Si Pit* Btmih.
BRISBANE... _ ...Edwabd Stems,
MELBOURNE .„ «..Bpawoa» Bt*m*.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured I
The Greatest Success f „ n „„ TTT , r / All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. / CONSULT \ are Curable.
Hr, H, E, KUGEIMN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPT.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886
To H. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe oold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
Although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement 1 did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
Attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
Incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
oines, as all I had taken for the last 16 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ourable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1886, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
Astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness —J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this 6th day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.— THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tsw AH Consultations Free.
Notice.— lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
rot being Effected.
i smssisir beveei
To all Affllotsed with Rheumatic Gout, Tig
Doloreux, Aching Fains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when ons
bobble of
DR, SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC FILLS
will give insbanb Relief and Cure In a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No ohange In diet
necessary. In Bobbles, Is., 2s. Bd., 65., and IBs,
CUBE FOB BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Byes. Ib nob only oures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, bub strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
tlmonlals from those who have recovered through
Its.agenoy can be Been. Admitted by the Medioal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Olunht,
681 George-street, only.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years, Publisher, Bulletin
Office,
OOBNEB OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
tOSCROVI
r .j;
i t
tarn
clLf
□
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Heading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’B Hotel) ... ... Proprietress.
THE
‘ PLUM ”
[Razor.
THE
PLUM’’
Razor.
FOR Private Use Is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; Bet ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
tS" Nine Haircutters always Employed 1
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man’s Watch A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
i3T TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN anp COUNTRY.
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdriau d& Co.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURER8 P
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
fi"
*rm
In consequent! of Imitations of TH& WORC' ESTERSHIRJ&
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, lan and Ptrrhet
have ta request that Purchasers St* that the Label m snefj JM&
hears their Signature thusnm
Without tbhich 90 bottle of the original WORCE9 TEPSBIRJD
SAUCE is genuine .
Ask fot LEA and PERRIfIS* Saute, and set Name on Wrapper, Label, BotOe
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester .*. Crosse mmS
<StV., 6rV*. j and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
TX7"li.a,t Is 3r©-u.r Ho’to'bsr'?
T-TT-rn
If
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keep a
bad one. If you have a
taste for Art : if you
want a remunerative
hobby—try
Photography !
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it—every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you.
i'-.y
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE vn PHOTOGRAPHIC c/* WAREHOUSES.
LICHTKER & CO.,
2 4 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Albert Street, BRISBANE.
t3T Send 2d. Stamp for our Illustrated Instruction Book and Catalogue, “ THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER.’’
Assurance Companies,
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated bp Act of Parliament, IT VISi,
No. 10.)
Registered Capital
Paid-up and Subscribed
41,900,001
ASS,OO9
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years _
For 6 months
7 per oent. I For 1 year 0 per cent.
4 per oent. | For 8 months- 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge oh Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled oapltal, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSEB.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Colleoted.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hiad Of non—lo, AlB HUNTER STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Coihffenies Act, 1871,
CAPITAL, A500.M0.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREET,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
8 months, 6 per oent.
® ii ® ii
IS 7 „
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 11 months, S
per oent. 6 months lj per oent.
Arrangements can be made to withdra# deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Dif&fforA
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Mana£eiV
A. MILLER, Accountant.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan & Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Oapitai. ... ... £500,000.
Sydney Offices; Sorter of Met 1 York Streets.
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department f
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Pboposal Fobms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace • Accident Superintendent,
The Company also, in its Banking and Commeroial
Departments, make Immkdiatb Advancrh upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS reoeived at 12 months, 7 per oent. ; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 5 per oent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Direotors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager,.
Business Announcements.
KING’S V'EWs
Op SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&0., &os,
315 GEORGE ST., between Sutw-st, aid 0.P.0,
: * *
TATTERSALL’S
koistes commmxs
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to enjure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,,
Bulletin Offioe.


The Manly Aquarium Company, limited,
MANLY, NEAR SYDNEY, N.S \V.
Capital, 15,000 hliares of li Each,
With power to increase to 25,000.
7000 Fully Paid-up Shares. 8000 Shares offered
to the public on the following terms, viz.,
2s. 6d. on Application, 2s. 6d. on Allotment,
and Balance in calls of Is. per month.
ipi, 10 per cent, dividend guaranteed for three years. I?!
I’rovl.ioual Directors:
JOHN WOODS, Esq., Fairlight, Manly.
ROBT. M. PITT, Esq , Pitt, Son, and Badgkry,
Limited.
W. J. Lit' NE. Esq., M.L.A., Sydney and Manly.
THOS. M‘KELVEY, Esq., Esplanade, Manly
Managing Director.
ROBERT EVANS, Queenscliff, Manly.
Solicitor :
ALFRED SHAW, Esq , Phillip Street,
Sydney.
Bankers :
MERCANTILE BANK.
Brokers :
Messrs. J. B. NORTH & SON, 90 Pitt Street,
Sydney
Mr. C. BOYES, 77 Collins Street, Melbourne.
1. This Company is being formed to purchase
from the present proprietor, the whole of the
Buildings, known as the Manly Aquarium, in-
cluding Shops attached, Goodwill, Lease of Land,
Pumping and Electric Lighting Machinery, Fur-
niture, Skates, &?., &c , as a going concern.
2. The Land comprises a large corner block,
having a frontage of 132 feet to the Coiso, the
principal street in Manly, by an average depth of
140 feet, which is most conveniently situated,
being only two minutes’ from the pier, and is held
under lea-e for 40 years (about 39 years yet to run)
at a yearly ground rent of £330, with the right to
convert it into a freehold during the lease on most
advantageous terms.
3. The Aquarium Building and Shops are of the
most substantial character, being built on solid
foundation and of 14 inch brick work ; two-storey
high, ar d contains Main Hall (80 x 40), used for
Balls, Concerts, Skating, and other entertain-
ments, also large Assembly Hall over Shops, 03ft.
x 25ft. Extensive Galleries, under which are
spacious promenade?, containing five large Fish
Tanks, constructed on the most modern principle,
alto two very large Underground Tanks for wa'er
storage.
4. The Seal House, which is of large dimensions,
is roofed with virgin cork, imitating the celebrated
Jenolan Caves, and contains a splendid Beal pond
with ornamental rock work, and which is acknow-
ledged the prettiest seal house in the world.
5. The Fernery is well stocked, most artistically
arranged with Waterfalls, Fountains, &c., and
contains a large Shark Tank sft deep.
0 The Machinery is of the very best, and con-
sists of two duplicated Boilers. 15 and 6 h.p.,
12 h.p. Stationary Engine, two Tangye’s Pumps,
and Edison’s Patent Dynamo, by which the whole
of the buildings are brilliantly illuminated by
Electricity, giving a most charming effect through-
out.
7. The total cost of Buildings, Fittings, and
Machinery was £ll,OOO, and has been valued by
Messrs. Mills and Pile (certificate annexed), at
£12,000, which does not include Furniture.
8. The Main Hall is beautifully decorated with
bunting, native implements of war, and costly
stuffed specimens of the finny tribe, &c , and is
furnished with Superior Grand Pianoforte, 1000
Chairs, Refreshment Tables, &c., together with
25)0 pairs of Skates, principally new.
THE AQUARIUM, MANLY,
October 12.
To the Provisional Directors of the Manly
Aquarium.
Gentlemen, —
I have carefully gone through the books of the
Manly Aquarium, and certify that the gross takings
from December 23, 1880, to September 23, 1888,
amount to £7322 18s. 9d.
The Expenses during the last six months average
£27 143. 4d. per week, which includes ground rent,
wages, fish, food, fuel, advertising and sundries.
Although before I took the entire management
the expenses were much heavier, l am confident
that the above-stated amount will never ba ex-
ceeded. I am, your sincerelv.
(Signed) J. F. NOTTING, Manager.
We, the undersigned, certify that we have ex-
amined the books of the Manly Aquarium and
find tha statement of Mr. Notting, the Manager,
o be correct.
(Signed) FRANCIS HUNT,
Manager Manly Gas Company Limited.
(Signed) ROBERT F. ROYAN,
Manager Manly Building and Investment
Society, Limited.
Copy ol Valuation by Messrs. Mills A Pile.
Sydney, Bth September, 1887
Valuation of the Property known as ' ‘ The
Manly Aquarium,” Manly.
This property comprises the whole of Lot 11
and the greater portion of Lot 10, Section 1 cf the
Basset Darley Estate, aud has 132 ft. frontage to the
Corso, and a frontage of 136 feat to Darley Road.
The whole of Lot 11 is occupied by the Concert
Hall and Assembly Room belonging to the
Aquarium, also ly portion of the Aquarium it-
self. The Shops, Concert Hall and Assembly
Rooms are built of brick and roofed with iron
the Concert Hall will seat 1000 persons comfort-
ably, the Assembly Hall is 63 x 25 and is in
occasional demand.
The Title is Leasehold with 39 years to run at
an annual ground rent of £330 (three hundred and
thirty pounds) with the right to convert the
property into a freehold within nine years for the
sum of five thousand nine hundred and forty
pounds (£5940) or on favourable terms at longer
dates.
We consider that at the lowest calculation even
in these depressed time 3, this property should be
worth twelve thousand pounds (£12,000).
(Signed) MILLS & PILE.
THE MANLY AQUARIUM COMPANY, Limited,
MANLY, N.N.W.
To the Provisional Directors. 90 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,
I hereby request you ivill allot me
Shares in the above Company, and now enclose £
being 2s. Gd. per share Deposit on Application. I undertake
to accept the above Shares, or any less number that may
be alloted to me, and to pay the further sum of 2s. 6d. per
Share on allotment, and any further calls that may be
made and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 188
Marne in full
Occupation
Address
T
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4oh day of December,
1888, from persons willing to contract for tbe erection of two gates, 8 chains post and rail
fencing, 3 miles 12 chains fencing cf posts and 4 wires, and attachirg wire netting to about 3 miles
20 chains fencing—between a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales
and South Australia, near a mile post marked “131,” and a point on the said boundary lihe
about 20 chains north of a mile post marked “134.”
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtaim dat the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to Messrs. George Ferguson & Co , Unity Chambers,
Currie-street, Adelaide; and the Mining Registrar, Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabblt-
pi’oof Fencing, Section 6.”
James n. brunker.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT PROt)F FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the ith day of December,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the erection of one gate, 4 chains poet ahd rail
fencing, 43 miles 40 chains fencing of posts and 3 wires, repairing 32 mil-s of ex'sting fences, and
attaching wire-netting to about 75 miles 40 chains fencing—between a point on the boundary 1 no
dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South Australia, near a mile po.-t marked “183/’
and a point on the said boundary line about 40 chains north of a mile post marled “ 258.”
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia ; Messrs.
George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide; and the Mining Reg sti ar,
Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed, “ Tender for Rabbit-
proof Fencing, Section 7.”
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4ffi day of December,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the erection of two gates, 8 chains post and rail
fencing, 26 miles fencing of posts and 3 wires, repairing 5 miles 40 chains of existing fences, removing
1 mile 60 chains old fencing of posts and 3 wires, and attaching wire-netting to about 31 miles 40
chains fencing,—between a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and
South Australia, about 40 chains north of a mile-po3b marked “258,” and the 290th-mile post on the
eaid boundary line.
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may b 3 obtained at the Irquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia ; Messrs.
George Fergueon& Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide ; and the Mining Registrar, Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-
proof Fencing, Section 8.”
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23. d October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR R\BBIT PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December,
1888. from persons willing to contract for the erection of three gates, 12 chains post and rail
fencing, 25 miles 20 chains fencing of posts and 3 wires, altering, repairing, &c., 30 miles of i x'sting
fences, and attaching wire-netting to about 55 miles 20 chains fencing,—between the 290bh-mile post on
thetoundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South Australia, and the south-west
corner of the Colony of Queensland.
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia ; Messrs.
George Ferguson and Co., Unity Chambers, Carry-etrcet, Adelaide ; and the Mining Registrar,
Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-proof
Fencing, Section 9.”
JAMES N. BRUNKER.
©
MEW BILLIARd TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY
BILLIARD OUSHIONSj &0., MADE ON THE PREMISES
<3ld Tables re-fitted by our own men
B CUES,BALLS m stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS ft S©WMs
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
Little George SYDNEf s H.S.W., and Soho Square B MPCiI
§ HOTEL,
L A U,N CESTOR, TASMANIA.
Proprietor.
riS=T-dLii.SS HOUSE,
LWines,' Fnnch.Liquors 1 Bafanna Cigars aiSpecialitj ». House, Cuisine frsnciise,
A LOVELY SKIN,
id&mtlfu! oomplexion, 10ft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms tan 'hast he ototalsAi!
iy discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, mot bstaf *lS®wsd Ik
■iaata ®m MB* skin cannot possibly hare any good effect on it, and by using
ftowlanck’
IQxlydor
A cooling, soothing, healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and uw of au
wiser, removes pimpiee, bpowi, uiiKXiiunuuuß) w/ioui#, ««~*i ,? ~ a i muai•»* j.
hums, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth ancl
pleasant. Gentlemen after sharing will find It allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin
ft is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on tht
■kin of the most delicate lady or child, ......
*6, 6d. and Ss, sd, par bottle; bottles o£ half the
site at 2s. 3d.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promotes the growth of the hair, ml
Is also sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whitens the teeth, preyenti decay, and giyjj £:
pleasing fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for HOWLANDS' articles, of 90, Eattet
warden. London, and ayold cheap, worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Biliots Bbob., and X. f»ocs*A A Co.. Jydnev.
J ItoM'HaUjN S UUNTMiiNT.
By Royal Letters Latent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE:
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many mw arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well t"> let them know that the he, is such
an article as JO SEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product on of the colony, composed of wild
plants indigenous to the country and nowhere else,
the principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS,
cow so famed throughout the world.
Jo3ephson’s Ointimnt is piirely vegetable, and
(i tl A K A N T E F. D FIIEK FRO it ALL PoiSCiNOUS
Qu \ cities. No A iiTiFiciAL i OLbuRiNG, as the
< reen colour is extracted from the pure grebn
lants, which dtfy imitatiori
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM FILES;
when one applicati in will ri lieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves.
Mi ssrs. E. Kow and Co.
J’ear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oinb-
au nt for Piles, and l ave found much relief from
c; iag it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
i!i‘ posed.
1 remain, vours, etc.,
L P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office*
CtTUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANh/S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
1 1 ese pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
o’.tiers and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sw, rn testimony from a v ell-know a
cit'zen:
Statutory Declarations.
“I, Groroe Hfavett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows
“That J feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that l have been tuffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
G E -vTION or D V SPEI’SIA, and have been cured
• v my taking- two or three glasses of ROW’S
S TEANES BITTERS a day in a lit) R water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
w.ll be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE
Is a safe and sure sbimu’anb for the female sex or
chi'dren, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greatr r depression
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
wthoub its intoxicating q rality. It will satisfy
he cravings of nature and crea e a d< sire for food
instetd of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
anidion Bi
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassfnl for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more rehable for remov-
irg all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
th- sa Bitters iavaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of wafer. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN
SAYS ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and <’o.
With thanks ftr forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. You's faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1880.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersignei :
‘ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
li lity, feelings of nervoueness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, aDd so on, but) all without
P oducing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recoirmended to try ROW'S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wendedul effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horribly depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS.
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW S YOU'LL DO BITTERS.
ROW T ’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROW S ASSORTED WINES. '
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


OE THE
flflllUl FIFES
MI, Liiilii
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ STATUTE.
Capital, £120,000, in 60,
Shares of £2 each.
First Xss-ulo, 35,000 Slrsires, e as FoXlotx7-s :
ss. Per Share on Application, ss. Per Share on Allotment, and tbe Balance by Instalments of
not more than ss. Per Share, at intervals of not less than 3 months. It is anticipated that not
more than £1 Per fchare will be called up.
NO PROMOTERS OR PREFERENTIAL SHARES
■’Will "tee Issuei
Provisional Directors :
H. BURROWS. Esq.
A. BEAVER, Esq.
R. EASTON Esq.
A. W. HABSTON, Esq., J.P.
A. M. HENDERSON, Esq., C.E.
Dr. HUTCHINSON.
H. T. LITTLEWOOD, Esq., J.P.
JOSIAH MARKS, Esq.
J. H. METCALFE, Esq.
JAS. MUNDAY, Esq. (Geelong)
ALEX M‘KINLEY, Esq.
G. MOKISON. Esq.
J. L.RADCL'FFK, Esq.
W. J. HUNTING, Esq., J.P.
W. A. B. TOBIN, Esq.
W. A. 8. WILLIAMSON, Esq., J.P.
BANKERS:
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited.
SOLICITOR:
Edward A. Smart, Baring Chambers, Market Street, Melbourne.
AGENTS :
Blslker and Co., 3 and 5 Rothschild Chambers, 47 Collins Street West, Melbourne
BROKERS:
Messrs. Donaldson and Co., Limited, 20 Collins Street West, Melbourne.
THIS Company is formed for the purpose of carrying on the Manufacture of Paper and of
purchasing from the present proprietors the property, plant, stocks and goodwill of the business
of the Barwon Paper Mills, Geelong and of carrying on and «xtending the same.
The position of this Manufactory is excellent, being situated on the banks of the River Barwon,
Mid close to Geelong. The advantages of pure water and water power, without co=it, are here t ecur-d ;
the turbine (or water-engine) used for driving the machinery eiving at present 200 horse power (which
can be largely increased) without cost of fuel; and, being practically automatic in ibs action, effects
an immense saving yearly.
The Mill-Race, substantially built of solid blue-stone, is nearly three-quarters of a mile in length,
and conveys the water to the Mill from a higher level in the river, giving a fall of 45 feet to the
Turbine.
In addition to the Turbine, there is also an Engine capable of working up to 500 horse-power for
use in cases of emergency, or for future extension of works.
Since the establishment of the Barwon Paper Mills the business has yearly increased from 74 tons
of pap er, manufactured during tha first year, until the present output of more than 1100 tons per
annum has been attained.
For some time past, however, the Mills have been unable to keep pace with the increasing demand,
although working the full 24 hours per day. The present output of paper is nearly 100 tons per
month, but by an outlay of about £5OOO for duplicating some portions of the machinery, the produc-
tion could be easily increased to 150 tons per month with the power available.
Paper Making is practically a monopoly, as there is only one other paper mill in the colony.
The Freehold Land upon which the Mill and premises are erected comprises about 24 acres. The
buildings consist of Sorting Room, 87ft. x 31ft.; Willey and Dusting Room, 49ft. x 31ft. ; Rag Boiler
House, 37ft x 31ft.; Beating Engine House of two stories, Machine and Finishing Rooms, each
122 ft. x 34ft.; Steam Engine House, Boiler House and Chemical Store Room. These are all of solid
blue-stone and brick construction, and in excellent repair. There are also Engineers’ Work Shops,
Iron Rag Store, Office and Stabling, and an excellent stone residence for the Manager has been
erected. There is also a terrace of stone cottages rented to employes.
The Machinery comprises all necessary Rag cutters, Dusters, and Willey Revolving Boilers, two
Upright Boilers, two large Hydraulic Presses, four Washing and four Beating Engines, Paper Machine
by Bertram (82 inches wide), Ripping, Winding, and Cutting Machines, Guillotine, Bale Press, three
Steam Bailers, Turbine, large and srna l Steam Engines, and Pumping Gear, Weighbridge (6 tons),
There are also t -vo Settling Ponds c of blue stone, each 80ft. x 85ft., holding 280,000 gallons
of water; the whole of which is in thorough working order.
The Properby and Goodwill, together with all Engines, Machinery, Fittings, and Appliances o*
trade, are offered to the Company for the sum of £48,000 7he Stocks of Materials, Chemicals, and
Paper (all to be approved), m-»y be taken at stock-taaing prices, which do not exceed cost; and the
imports to arrive are to be taken at cost price.
Photographs of the Properly, and plans of the Buildings, can be seen at the Offices of the Agents
or of the Brokers, together with samples of various kinds of Paper manufactured at the Mills.
Valuations of the Buildings and Machinery have been made by Mr. Percy Oakden (Oakden,
Addison and Kemp) and Messrs Robinson 8r03., Campbell and Sloss, Limited, respectively, and the
total values of the property, including the value of the 24 acres of Land used for Mill purposes, the
Water Race (three quarters of a mile long) and Weir, the Rolling Sbock, Water Supply, Sundries and
Goodwill, make up the total amount of £48,000. The various certificates of values can be inspected at
the Agents’ offices.
The following Accountants’ Certificate will show that a profit was made for the past year equal to
more than 11£ per cent, on the amount of the purchase-money :
17a and 19a Queen-street, Melbourne, October 2nd, 1888.
We hereby certify that we have examined the books and accounts of the Barwon Paper
Mills, and find that the net profits for the twelve months ending 31st August, 1888, amounted
to £5583 Bs. 3d. Numerous payments, made on account of the Property and Machinery, have
been passed to manufacturing expenses, which if charged to the correct accounts, would con-
siderably augment the profits l for the year. Certified statements of the accounts for the pre-
vious nine years have been produced so us, and these can be inspected at the Agents’ ■ ffices.
(Signed) GEO. W. SELBY, Jun., & CO., Public Accountants.
The allotments of shares will be made by the Directors in accordance with priority of application,
and the Company is now being registered.
This is offered as a safe and profitable investment (outside the range of speculation), and it is
anticipated it will return at least 12 to 15 per cent, on the paid-up Capital.
NOTE' —Application to be addressed to the Directors, Care of the Agents,
Messrs. BISIKER and Company
3 & 5 Rothschild Chambers, 47 Collins Street West, Melbourne,
Or, Care of the Brokers,
Messrs. DONALDSON & Co., Limited, 20 Collins Street West, Melbourne.


PROSPECTUS
I
OF THE
MUTUAL FISH SUPPLY COMPANY,
LIMITED,
Late P. N. JENKINS.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES STATUTE, 1864.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO, IN 100,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH*
Payable as follows: —Is. on application, 2s. 6d. on Allotment, the Balance to be called np
(if required) in Instalments of not more than Is., at intervals of not less than One
Month, of which due notice will be given, but it is anticipated that not more than
7s. 6d. per Share will be called up.
NO PROMOTERS’ OR PAID-UP SHARES WILL BE ISSUED.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
Hon. L. L. SMITH, M.L.A., Collins Street East.
Bey. Dk. BROMBY, St. Paul’s Vicarage, Melbourne.
G. H. FETHERSTON, M.D., J.P., High Street, Prahran.
J. J. E. WILLMOTT, M.D., Collins Street East.
NATHANIEL LEVI, Esq., J.P., Flinders Street, City.
F. MACK AY, Esq., J.P., Elizabeth Street.
L. L. MOUNT, Esq., J.P., Kooyong Road, Caulfield.
JOHN ADAM, Esq., Lawrence & Adam, William Street.
A. B. BATES, Esq., Barker’s Road, Kew.
J. M. CONNELL, Esq., 77 Temple Court.
R. DICKSON, Esq., Jas. Dickson & Co., Franklin Street.
WM. HENDERSON, Esq., R. Montgomery & Co., Little Collins Street.
W. LANSLY, Esq., Mercantile Bank of Australia, Prahran.
W. J. MOOREHEAD, Esq., South Yarra.
W. A. TRENWITH, Esq., Trades’ Hall.
W. STEPHENS, Esq., Stephens and Watts, Bourke Street, and others.
BANKERS:
COMMERCIAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
SECRETARY:
E. G. MAKEPEACE.
TEMPORARY OFFICES:
VICTORIA BUILDINGS, SWANSTON STREET (No. 1, Third Floor), MELBOURNE.
BROKERS:
MAKEPEACE & PRIOR, Victoria Buildings, Swanston Street, MELBOURNE,
AND OTHER RECOGNISED BROKERS.
PROSPECTUS.
The very high prices charged for Fish in Melbourne have for a long time caused it to be regarded
as a luxury rather than an article of food, although medical testimony has shown it to be an absolute
and indispensable factor in diet, more especially in this climate.
The well known and highly profitable Fish and Poultry business of Mr. P. N. Jenkins, as
carried on b> him for the la3t 20 years at his establishment in Melbourne, together with
the goodwill of his business, leases of Premises in Swanston Street, Elizabeth Street. Flinders
Street, and Flinders Lane ; also wholesale place in the Fish Market, Ten Horses, Five Carts,
Oyster B ds, and Four Boats -used in connection with the same— has been secured for the
Company. The pric* to be paid for the entire Plant, Rolling Stock, Leases and Goodwill, as
a going concern, is £20,0 0, on liberal terms. Mr. Jenkins will taka as part payment 5000 paid-up
shares, and has agie o to act as Managing Director, and not to enter into competition with the busi-
ness directly or indirectly for a term of years, and he feels confident that by doing a Wholesale and
Retail Business on a large scale, Fish, &c., can be supplied at a much less price than hitherto, and yet
pay a handsome dividend to Shareholders. It is proposed to considerably extend the business by
obtaining a Metropolitan Depdt of eufhcimt extent, and in a somewhat central position in Melbourne,
to be fitted up with all the latest refrigerating machinery and improvements, where a very large
supply of fish mav be kept fresh till sold or cured ; also to establish branches where practicable in
the Suburbs of Melbourne and various centres and up-country districts of Victoria. The above will
secure the co-operation of the fishermen at the various stations, and arrangements will be made
with them for procuring fish on the Company’s account from all available sources and forwarding the
same, packed in suitable boxes, or other improved methods, to the Melbourne Refrigerating Store,
thus saving commission and at the same time securing a supply of fresh fish daily ; special care ana
nrovision will be made for the avoidance of that which has, in the past, proved destructive to the fish
in transit, the Railway Department having promised to render every possible facility.
By these means the Company will be able to offer to the public, from its various depbt, fish at such
a price as to muke it obtainable by all classes as an ordinary article of food, in the same way as they
secure butchers’ meat, bread, &c.
As the Company progresses arrangements will be made with the fishermen at the different fishing
stations to take all fish caught during the year at fixed rates. The Company will also have power to
purchase and vend poultrv and game, in the various seasons, thus at the same time supplying an
universal want, and proving a profitable investment to the Shareholders. .The advantages are self-
evident, but it may nevertheless be pointed out that by taking shares in this Company and dealing
with it for their household supplies, investors will enjoy the benefit of the Mutual System by par-
ticipating in the profits and diminishing their household bills.
It is also intended to import Fish and Game from England and the Colonies through tha
refrigerating departments of the fast-going mail steamers.
When 30,000 shares have been subscribed for the Company will be deemed floated.
As all shares applied for will be allotted according to priority, early application is imperative.
THE BROKERS ARE
Messrs. Makepeace and Prior,
(To whom application for Shares should be made)
Victoria Buildings, Swanston Street, Melbourne.
st Closes set an Ea,rl37" ZDette.


Hotels.
hotel, goulburh, n.sw.
IpIRST-CLA SS accommodation for commercial
Kentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
*“» fooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
SI
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS-
LAND.
,>der the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
S| 6ncy Sir A - Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Accommo-
ths f or visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
u. peonies a splendid view can be obtained of
mountain of gold, and within a few
"““tttes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
If.? Iria il coaches daily from Rockhampton and
railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
e “ or i of the firm of Monckton and Co. im ~ t |__J
MOUNT MORGAN.
Wnsiand National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
JjBlS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
j*r is now ready for the reception of visitors,
comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiseb, Proprietress.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE. .
Railway Tkeminus, Spenceb Street.
yISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
jU has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
loft, modern improvements, such as light,
jq. y > a nd well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
ly, lll ! smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
needle baths
senger elevator, electric bells,
»tor^ uone » ancl all other hotel requisites, not to be
in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
called for early morning trains. Letters
wT* “degrams promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor. H
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
®hveen George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr,
■ r It a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
a rd College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
c™ B . April 17th, 1888). The doctor ha 3 devoted 14
pT to the study of CHRONIC, . NERVOUS, AND
OgJrjM' DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
U of the United States, which enables him to treat
'■ ‘Faints with excellent results. All applying to
tgC!. His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
11 0th disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
i oet+ e - r Wor ds, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
loveri m res ult, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
te 3 ' v Hh the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees.
0 pen es it distinctly understood that he does not claim
18 ok; 111 impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
born, I s °nly to be a skilled and successful physician
fc&fSSnly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
'fciflih DISEASES ok MEN and WOMEN. People
letajl £ at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
in >e Seated at home. The course of treatment will
lo h way interfere with their business. Examina-
> advice free to all. Charges ’moderate. H. J.
itw 1 "I'D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
0 4 Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
I to n' to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
i a.in. only.
"ftpPAiiPRBSOBIPTIOHS are to
be found the “ LIGHT AND
for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DEI
and Kindred Diseases, &e. A copy of
. “Ook will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
■ Sydney Pharmacy,
. 76 Hunter Street Sydney.
t&l
m
k>
y 3
-Mfc
g. £ £•
Sr S> 'Ti
© ,s
<:
y-H
ft* C£
V-
h
x
iii
:
of
n
EUCALY PTE OiL.
m
m
S 3
CARTER ANDj:iC;O.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agenta, /;) .<
£ . AND
Art bane Office
STATION AGENTS.
-27 Queen-street.
Agency —John Bros., 17 Custoni.Houae
B> oircular Q u ay. * *«
Agency— T. H. Young, [Phoenix
f Ch ’ Market Street. «•» r.' m
c eg and Agencies throughout Queensland
Business Announcements
HATS. HATS.
HATS.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
20 per cent. DISCOUNT for one month ONLY.
Our noted Guinea Silk Hats at 17s.
Our noted Half-guinea Felts at Bs. 6d.
Straws, 3s. 6d., 4s. 6d. and ss. 6d. at 2a. 9d,, 3s.
6d., and 4s. 6d . '
Pullover Cork Helmets, 12s. 6d at 10s. 6d.
MORLEY’S BEST HOSIERY at cost price.
UMBRELLAS, &c., at cost.
c F. FRIDDY and Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’e)
AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
-AHU K -
io l Rad
time j’Cnit.Urcbreila 4
ccrrered, andyotir
FarasCl* redined and ■>
to New, s®
5. SULLIvm
S»1 George Street,
BrsckSeld Bid, fcettcw*®
Ijirerpool and BatJmwt HSwr 4 *
Parasdls made to matejs %.y
tnscfwj. Repairs n<w**v r*’**"’
Excelsior hotel, charters
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets,
sown, sum* w M gquGH, Proprietor.
T
O RUNHOLDERS,
OTHERS.
FARMERS, And
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 PWt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, HYGIENIC
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
Sold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney. .
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George Street, or from the runners in
the street.
MANUFACTURING: HATTERS
CEO^CPSTREET
SYDNEY.
V PORTERS OFAIL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT fBTKBBT, BRISBANE H
oßrAiwm*
F IRST CUSS AWARD /
% r ~ .>
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERiIT
m
m
' >v.
\
m 1
• V.
•• * A - • * V
■A\' %
i j rs*
jfS WA'UC H S
‘ rfECE t VEGTHf IIs>TF:RWATj.ONAt |
* PRIZE M E OAL; ■ -vf;
Bniineu Annonnoementi.
A WONDERrUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH4
0
<5?
PATENT
B
LLS
Pi
%
&
V
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilioua and Neurons
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Coetiveness,
Scurvy'and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
and Tjemb-
Ustg Bengal . -tc. The first dose will give relief
Is twenty minutes. .
Every sufferer ie earnestly invited to try one
teas, of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
its » few doses of them carry off all humours, and
bring about all that is required. No femalo should
b« vnthout them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’e Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If tal en accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound add
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Diver, they act like magic, and a
few doees will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore, the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largeet Sal* of any .
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the "best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
OGTJGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in * short fime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Betail, by
ihe Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
< 'SB BANK OF NEW ZB ALAND,
Sydney Branches:
fig PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capitol ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund , 600,000
The Bank haß Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
f’tonaaa, nan offer special facilities for dealing
to Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’looted on most favour-
aisle terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIb Acting Manager.
v.y«.
gOIENOE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
aooording to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mobb MERCURY ob other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special oomplaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified praotitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, bM
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute.*?
68, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
lor the soientifio and effectual cure of all phases of Net*
vous Debility, Chronio and oomplioated Affeotione.
Dr. Wright oures Fite, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung And Kidney Afleo-
lions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so': If not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is oonfldent of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your oase.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not olalm
to perform impossibilities, or to have mlraoulous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physlolae
thoroughly Informed In my epeoiallty.
Note Address—
rSOBSESEITE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
58, Flinders Stbebt W., Melbourne.
MT Mo connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 268, G.P.O.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine roars. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout
FIRST
QUALITY.
> •. -
%
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLS PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speoial Appointment.
wholesale AGENTS.
W. BalGbin, Johnston & Go.«
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Bytact*.
Robert butcher & oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine aaf
Spirit Business to
592 a George street
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out M
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
D* RIDGE’S
fob INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
.LONDON, ENGLAND.
fi. STEPHENSON
HAS OH BALE—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VAl||
RUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEON!,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLN
BUCKETS, fco.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STIUHSi
Between King and Market Streets.
Offyriqhttd \
iitrOMt
Owriftog.
»4 Wikm, '
r*vya'\ M>r-*rck r htxit did thU,
1 4 nd u*H ic it on either bald
U*c J jt ' s«r* /ac*. Forces
heavy Mousloc** 4t. from 2 to
4 week* and never fail*. 20.00G 1
- _ - young men aLrvady wear full
year die, having need Ito 3 pkte. .Vo injury, easily applied, eertoA
to effect. Packets, U 64 each Iftir S». 64. poet paid , tens unila
tover,free from obeeruati .-*» * ddreee, Pmuik Momrlmu Bale Aavt^i
*o*lM>.»r-C:
s.
WA.LDKR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin M
100 PITT STRBBT
LLLu
aa»*i*ado» an Hlia
JOHN BUCKHAH,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Bncbetß all Bizes, at lowest prloes,
Note the Address.
Oldest established house In the trade.
JOHN BtTOKHAM,
286 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
BERNARD’S Piotbbe and Moulding
JU. Stobe, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), Is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest 1b the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., earefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts out with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plough
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all other* for its lasting and natural
fragrance,
Th ree Gold Manau—
FARIS,I*7B; CAT,(IUTTA, 1801,
for pi's eminent excellence of quality.
Atltinsen's Newest Perfume*
FAGKJEA & CYMBIDIOH
are of rare aad peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors ®r their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed ter promoting the month and
improving the appearance Of the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless,
ATKIIfSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerehier, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Vealert , and of the Manufacturing —>
J. * &. ATK.INBON,
24, Ol© Bond Btrekt, Bon don.
Trade Mark—*• White Rose” on *
L Lyr«/*


BEHAN’S
Blacls Oils
OX
EMBROCATION,
FOB
USES, CATTLE A Ml
Will make Hair Grow ot«» Oldest Sean.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared taly by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern.
Wholbsalb:
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug 00., S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 883 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, Y.S., 33 Pitt Street, Hedfferau
PRICE Ss. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers,
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a oountry In the oiivlised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their benefloient action is at once
rec ignised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
u» every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nsw Oxfoeb-st., London. AST Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots,
tf the address is not 623 Oxford-street; London, they are
ipurious.
P. R. XjiLRKIN.
IMPOiTKB OF
tar WINHS, SPIRITS, BBBRS <ScC., &; c.
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
,o^/^t^&. Dublin Whisk y ( 5 to 10 y ears old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
Thb Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. ts" All B'ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
tar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST, ts*
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' RETrFsHMEIt' ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIP-ES STREET (opposite A. Hokdern & Sons).
—-j :y
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
wallach bros:
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, EREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
Wa
as
sSSi®"® 8 " 1
rs—
Have always m BtOT oleg(Ji
to the Trade and w
Buyers Only.
ironmongery
glass, china.
barthenwaß*
WINES, BEERS &^ P
Agente I°r gOlfS 1
J. SORIN ANO 00, ' S
Cognac.
rrfE CAN
B. EUGE«*'*
Ladies' Ted G "’' T Ca|()OB
Hairdressing
the most central and well-apP O
the city.
iglish fla ir.
Private Rooms for Dyeing
““s^liSTbethstb^^
idoorsfpom&P^gj^
"'vTT'illia-asQ. IB’U.lletrd., 3-42 Q-eorgfe Street,
NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
. BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC.
PANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURl 08,
BALL PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AX THB
SEWIMB MACHINE DEPOTS
Hi
MELBOURNE
ii
•• *«
Richmond
Windsob
BALLARAT ...
SANDHURST
GEELONG
BTAWELL
EOHUOA
BEEOHW ORTH ...
HAMILTON
W ARRNAMBOOL...
SALE ... ...
MARYBOROUGH...
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanaton Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
... ... Sturt Street.
... ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... 56 Moorabool Street.
... ... Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... * Gray Street.
... ... Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
a
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OB BACKETS
THROUfiHOUT THf
a-. IP- PICKLES dc SOLTS, Carriage
3:^*
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
ei.® 0
u® 1
City Repository 1 - B, 7,8, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Mansfactory 3 32, 84, 3B BRUNSWICK STREET, FlT*®
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY ’
TJEW TABLE—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED aa an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. «■ Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
UNDER THIS CLASS provides for THE
Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FU
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
TThtrr RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Win fiAnd fnost free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cube fob Nkbvous Dkbiutt and
SSLSE KvTspeoial advice to all kind of sufferers. Address -
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
It****
ALLAN A. MARSHALL
Engineebs, Coppbbsmithb, Bbass and Bem Found*® '
Finibhebs, PiiDubebb, Gasfittebs, Ship & Gbnebal Smiths, Abt & Mss> v%
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wh 0 ® 1 **
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices— l 1 ’
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of t^ oß e
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire f
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Staniuore »
