

9
'xMM
Tonic Nervine
33
ywyif—|
-)
The Great Tonic Health Restorati
TO
9
Is a Warranted CURE for all Diseases arising from
DEBILITY
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
s°lcf by all Chemists and Storekeepers in Town and Country.
WHOLESALE AGENTS: -
3T • Slliott Bros., and Drug: Co.
■ Elliott Bros., cSs Berkley, Taylor, dz> Co,
i Boclre, TDorrrpsatt Co.
The Bulletin


THE LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS? ORGANS? MUSIC,
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FROM G.P.O.
AI,T, the best makers kept in stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The iron-framed
“ VICTOR Piano excels all others, and is fully equal in Planof and
Call and Inspect or send for Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LECHLEITKK Pianos, and
ESTEY and Co.’s American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TIME PAYMENTS, FROM 20a. A MONTH.
mm
n
esro
te&&
IIDTOB
SOIiriHA&IiOHS
Gcifif*Srx*rj
AJ*»
TrCACI£
Rfrjnfßs
IMRERIWLH
A
(§l^^
frAg Office t factory, /ycwtow#
BRANCH. CCOHCC SI. SYQHCr
T"
B AUSTRALIAN BANKING
LIMITED,
COMPANY,
HEAD OFFICE CORNER of MARKET and
YORK STREETS, SYDNEY.
Incorporated by Act of Executive Council,
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS—
The Hon, Francis Abigail,
M.L.A,
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J V. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Eaq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey,
>
Ssq
‘Esq
X,Mt Dividend paid to Shareholder* at the rate of 121 per-
cent per annum
Bonn* paid to Deposit© * of 12 months (2 per cent.)
~ „ 6 (1 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
Upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed
-at call, 3 per cent.; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per
cent. ;12 months 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'NAMARA, Secrerary.
THOS. BUOKLAND,
utwmn. MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AOBB*
Chartres Towrrs
Agent for Bober and Co., Engineer*, Lincoln;
„ „ Langland'* Eoundrr Co., Melbourne ▼Ss
E. D. MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AO* HI
Minins Exohansb.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QBEENBLAKL
LLA
mBR
I RE COVERED-
STUDY EC3NOMI
»nd
Have your Umbrella frames re-
eoeered ind roar
j*»raial« re-lined and made ea»*
to New, at
J, SULLIVAN’S
641 Qeorge Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Batbnrst Btrasts
Faraiola wade to watsb sea
tames Benabri neatte «»*«*«•?
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
i SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS,
"jMjFBRIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE,
Proprietress, SARAH EATON,
M of Mtiawellbrook and Rockhampton,
m First-olass Family and Commercial Hotel.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT,
ALFRED LISTER, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling public.
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympifc
Fibst-clabs Accommodation you Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
3, F, E. STEWART, Proprietor,
Q-crisEiisrsLj&jisrxx
MILLAR, CARTER, AND CO.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher & co
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE-STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES. SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out Of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue
;|=t
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanleai isslws,
and Queensland Club,!
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTBI.
ACCOMMODATION FOR 11, “
A Walter Meets Every Steamer,
Letters and telegrams please address pro>
& M. COLLINS,
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets*
SOUTH BRISBANE,
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments,
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JjIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected la above
wn, situated corner of Gill and Church-streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
A SOVEREIGN REMEDY
s» & \ Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tic-
Doloreux, Aohino Pains In the Limbs
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SQUTHAM S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days.
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottleß, Is., 3s. Bd., 55., and 10s.
CURE *G BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEBBRATED BYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared b* the Bole Proprietor.
S L EOSI Pham&oentieal BMmlsl,
AS > oniv.
s.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
296 Pitt-street.
i»s- _
iLshk < '
Man**
ttvu*r OtiMtf*
ms A#* &r
Marquees on Hire,
ORIGINAL
BAKING
w
ff
UGH*
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
OR .
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MEHIt
SS&
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!
none other but
WAUCH’S
ft ECESVtO tne INTCRNA7 I ON A l
PR i t C MCDAL
IiAHUfACTUKED SYjAWEsDiAKHOfI
Hakvpuk s r SronsT
Sold fey AD Ctocersaad srnrt&«*isrt
TOBACCO
DIXON & SONS
TOBAOOC WORKS,
SYDNEY.
DIXSON ft SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTOR
not only manufactures MORE ■
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF l®s>°
r nto New South Wales, and henoe the B
of their brands,
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco
Australia, -
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMP!
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 maohine 1
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginia ll
and Paris rice tissue. B i ze
retailers at Sd. per packet of 10 Olga* B *’*®*
K-KW ZEAI AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TSSTIMONIAKB
from the Bondan Contingent Ho*pit»
, Oorp*; alio frogs eminent Doctor* and
l_j Student*! from Surdnei Ho»pit*l *— i
MONK'S
me iixiVKit
fa. ML per Bottle.
Aik tor It »nd tike no inbititute.
li id UiTilnible oure See teitimoaiili.
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemist*,
3s. 6d. per bottle,
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
3s. Cd. per bottle,
Sole Agents i
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
301 PITT STREET, SYDNEY:
AND
44 Little ollinb treet East, Melbourne,
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel, Private Sitti Room,
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business,
H. 6. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook's). First-class chef.
Charges strictly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junk., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS.
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Head Office; Townsville, I. Queensland.
G. S. CURTIS,
Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MR, BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry and
Bolton) wishes to Inform the numerous
friends of the Firm and the travelling publio that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take charge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision,
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the oelebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival,
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STARLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes' walk of the Hotel, Coaches
DAILY FROM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Note the Address—
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry ft Bolton),
SONBURSf HOTEL,
MOUNT MORGAN.
fjpa* TYPE-WRITER
Batee labour, *MlU.n«rf, waft tine, writing stash tarter
than expert sea-Mea. Mid eondenilng Matter to ten than
one-half the ipaee oaanpied be sen writing. Beautiful
•onlM was betaken In thawraal Manner in the tarter »re«»
SoU wholesale and retail fea the eole aeentt,
IMRAY ft 00.
410 Kent-ibreat,
# «r
HATS CAPS it
WcioßcFsT
SYDNEY
F
l S&O 1
3UVBR COMPTJLINT positively
FRUIT PILLS. Wt mean cared, ,o
We can prove what we eey There
laiU>r® '
- MOULTON'S FRUIT ‘
ILIOUBNRBB, prevent CONSTIPATION^ tro^
appointments.
frli BIL
OPEPSU, promote DIGESTION, relieve 4ft
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of tb* “ pllfl'*,
stimulate the LIVKii, regulate the BOWELS, *o- ogiiF 1
XHB RLOOD. The Cheapest and Best F»®"f ff“ w
{known, purely Vegetable (mode of the tc t*
ere as nearly perfect an it te possible for * ‘“
&*Tj5 tverywhere. Prte* *•- 3 w,
C. £ MOULTON Sole Prop "
MORGAN HOTEL,
Under the distinguished patronage of tn s)s>*
oellenoy Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G.
datlon for 60 visitors. Two-storey
the balconies a splendid view can 9
the celebrated mountain of gold, and
minutes’ walk of the company’s works,
and mail ooachea daily from Rockh*
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONO
prltor, of the firm of Monokton and Co.
JVEOTXIsrT MOEC3-A
QUEIISLAID HATIOIAL
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully do»®
is now ready for the reception ®
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HKISEK. " r
(late of the DeteotlvelFoto*
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends,
Business Agency Office.
IS ROYAL ARCADE, SYP^fU
Abseondars and wife deserter* traced,
■aoed, o bt*e>j
liittfifienSial Inquiries instituted, ® ,^e .°® 8 4b8 l"|P
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary eases, fo| riel
Session and others. Copies of will*, oertinO*,
carriage, or death, obtained in an» pa**. 8
Kents and debts collected. From R. M.
In the Oeteetire Foroe of New Booth Waleti.,
Sfsw Zealand, and established agencies in **_
Slobe, he Is in a position to conduct all inauirie*
SxpwntlMS and strictest seoresp, and ftt*
Qmngtm attend to all business entrusted to n
&ANO
*MD
MARINE
IHGINES,
aoura
POMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
AT-
LOWEST COST!
6 >'i
y 4
iff
LOCOMOTIVES, TUBB* LAUNJ
KSTIMATBB FOR OOMPI*® 1
•ycrfc:©y •
m* fur nnsn
Mol
m.


The Bulletin
Vol. 9-No. 419
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1888,
Price. Od.
Puff and “Bust,”


" THE BULLETIN.”
Hie National Australian Newspaper.
PROPRIETORS I BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per Annum ,« .» ... A 1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly .« .« 0 13s. Od.
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, <tc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. P. Archibald
NOTICK.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
Hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11. ISBS
“ Art in Australia.”
During the present period of high-falutin,
Centennial “ blow,” Australia has pulled herself
together an I carefully and categorically gone over
the entirety c£ her attractions. She has com-
pared her progress with that of the nations of the
earth, much ta her own satisfaction. Her trade,
her industries, her resources (mineral and agri-
cultural), her advancement in the various branches
of science, her sport, even her literature and her
art, have each and all been measured and gauged
wish an infinitude of self-gratulation. Members
of Parliament, advocates cf Imperialism, Pre-
miers, ex-Mlnisters, newspaper-writers, and pre-
sidents of art societies have seized their trumpets
of tin and their cymbals of brass and assisted in
the laudation of everything Australian. In a
recent issue of the Sydney D.T. some callow
0 rushes into print to deliver his
ideas on the subject of “Art in Australia,” and,
of course, suoh views at such a time as the present
take a special Centennial colouring. He says of
an artist’s appeal for Governmental aid and State
patronage that it was a
Manly and outspoken opinion upon the subject of art and
for the suggestions made by him as to the advisability of the
Government providing a system of education which would
hava a tendency to develope to its fullest extent the capa-
bilities and genius which, unfortunately, are at present dor-
mant in the youth of Australia.
He deserves the warmest thanks of the com-
munity. # # «
We fail exactly to see where the manli-
n 33S comes in here. There is nothing particularly
ennobling in the appeal for a Parliamentary
*' ghore ” to prop np that which ought) to be self-
supporting. The “ genius” which is of so poor a
q lallty that it is at present “ dormant ” for want
of national charity had better remain so, for all
t lings nurtured and patronised by statesmen are
simply instruments and panders inasmuch as their
existence depends upon caprice on the one hand
au l flattery and subservience on the other. Under
a system of Government patronage the artist
w mid paint for the Government and nob for the
puillc. Why should the Government “ patronise’’
talsnt beoause it takes a particu’ar form ? The
bulding but penniless financier, with a “ genius ”
for manipulating untold sums, has quite as much
on his side when he demands loans from the
at ite in order that his “ dormant" “ capabilities
ani genius” may get a field for their exercise.
We are oompellsd to admit —and we admib it with
pain—that art has too often been the humble tool
aid grovelling slave of Rank, of Wealth, of Dss-
pot/sm. Art has “flourished” in the darkest
perl ids of the world’s political servitude. Every
byr mb nearly has bsen noted for the exbenslon of
his “ patronage" to art, and the regal bully gene-
rally kept his artist for the same reason that he
ks jo hfs Court fool, viz., to amuse him in the first
in nance, to glorify his rule, and to flatter his
va iity. Two of the worst men that ever rode
rough-shod over Christendom, Charles V.,
E operor of Germany, and Henry VIII. of Eng
laid, were famed as “ patrons" of art, and the poor
dri veiling would-be tyrant Charles I. was fond of
pictures and “patronised” artists extensively. In
our own time It is not the merit of a picture
which makes its reputation. That exalted per-
s mage Tummy lets fall a word of commendation
and the picture becomes the “rage” of the
se<Hm The Prince of Wales’ smile is of in-
finitely more value to an artist than any amount
of genius, “dormant" or otherwise.
* * *
Artists are ever prone to glorify the
glorified and seek to paint the lilies of rank and
wealth. -lalian Rossi Ashton said in his recent
D.T. Centennial arb paper
C jlutnns from Bpecial correspondents would not avail to
Kive bo graphic a presentation of an heroic incident in our
national life as De Neuville s " Defence of Rorke s Drift
The emotions are more strongly stirred by the. work of ths
artist because the mind of the beholder is able to grasp the
whole situation at once.
Yet the hero Roy finds no place in this artisblc
pa nt-offering to England's alleged greatness. It
was left to a newspaper to call public attention to
hU miserable plight, when In sightless dependency
he was starved and kicked about in the noisome
cells of an Australian pauper refuge. But there
remains a chance for some Australian artist to
embody the latter incident, and Mr. Ashton might
prove his prowess as a large-souled artist by em-
ploying his brush to depict it.
* » *
Arts only in rare instances does aught for
our common humanity. In the Victorian
Assembly, not long since, it was proposed
that the sum of £lOOO should be place! on
the Estimates for the widow of the late Marous
Clarke, the author of a truly great book, which it
is not the least of Victoria's glories that he pro-
duced, but the motion was negatived without
division. The Sydney Echo attributes this to the
“ democratic dislike to the liberal arts," but this
is all nonsense. The people of America, the most
widely-advertised, if not the most genuine, Demo-
cracy of present times, give every passible en-
couragement to the liberal arts, as well as to in-
dustrial pursuits, and so will it be in every
country where the artist has the sense to put him-
self en rapport with the public, with the endea-
vour ta please it, instead of attempting the reali-
sation of fads and theories to please himself. In
the case of Marcus Clarke, too. there was some-
thing accomplished, something great and worthy
done; there was no effort to compliment the
great or to pander to officialdom, and th ? s was,
perhaps, th* reason why his widow received no
pension. He was dead, and consequently could
not ask for a gratuity that he might “ develops
capabilltiss and genius” of the strongly-marked
“dormant ’ brand, Perhaps the loudest in tleir
clamours that his widow should not receive this
sum of £lOOO were these very artists who shoutFo
loudly for a Government subsidy. For n.o3t
“ artists ’’ can understand the existence or possi-
bility of no art but piotorial art, and this alone,
they consider, should be encouraged.
• • #
Let the artist in Australia—alas ! that we
cannot say the Australian artist—paint what hPs
the public taste and the public will buy it, but
this pitiful wailing after a State crutch is too
nauseous and spineless in its dolorous mendicancy.
The callow correspondent aforecited trots out the
ancient objection that the people are not educated
to recognise “true art,” &c., and then imme-
diately contradicts himself by saying that—
Hogarth was, without doubt, the first painter to touch
the right chord and arouse the popular feeling. But his
admirable productions were very expensive and only found
purchasers among wealthy connoisseurs. The public crowded
around the windows of the shops in which Hogarth s
paintings were exhibited and gazed long and fondly at them,
but were unable to purchase. . . .15 was not till the
works of George Morland were produced that the masses
had the opportunity of possessing picture! of merit.
Showing that when the artist really touched the
“ right chord," when he hit the taste of the public
he had patrons enough and to spare. The fault
lay with the artists themselves, and no amount of
State aid to “ dormant ” genius of certain pecu-
liar types of dormancy would have made the pic-
tures of some artists popular. The writer dis-
proves his own contention in these words :
I do not believe that art will be allowed to deteriorate
i a Australia ;i it only requires a little patience perse-
verance on the part of the artists themselves to make their pic-
tures famous. The public are every day becoming more
alive to the necessity of art, and ere loDg it will hold a high
position in this Southern Continent, and those who help to
attain it will be amply repaid for thei; trouble.
• *
The troth is that people have hitherto
looked in vain for the qualities of genuinely
original art in Australia. Many self-styled Aus-
tralian artists are simply copyists who depend
upon the truthfulness of their imitations of native
scenery and who seem to be utterly incapable of the
merest exercise of their imaginations. If the
sole aim of art is to “ copy” a bit of rock, a bit
of water, a bit of cloud, and to get as far away
from Nature without getting into anything else
while “copying,” the photograph will always
have the preference. The people always “ under-
stand ” a great picture —the representation of a
great joy or a great sorrow ; a splendid achieve-
ment or something of that human nature one
touch of which makes all the world akin. Give
them something of this sort, and they will not
haggle and split straws about bid drawing or in-
different colouring, a faulty j ieca of composition,
or a wrong distribution of light and shade. The
D.T.’s correspondent says elsewhere :
After spending weeks, ofttimes months, in the tra-
duction of a picture, the artist exposes it to the
gaze of the critic. Perhaps to the critic's mind, the
colour is not distinct or pronounced enough, or
the light and shade totally opposed to that which his (the
critic’s) imagination pictures, and the production is at once
designated—though it may be of sterling and genuine merit
—a “ daub ”or a failure. Faults are found with the most
trivial details, and the artist's labour is, for the time being,
thrown away.
If the work of art depends exclusively upon its
technical reproduction cf colour, form, chiaro-
scuro, &o , for whatever of merit it may possess it
must be judged rigorously upon these grounds.
Where the artist labours to shadow forth a piece
of his soul, some great and splendid ideal, the im-
pertinences of mere technical criticism are not to
be endured for an instant, If the picture is
trivial it is right and proper for the critic to find
fault “ with the most trivial details.” If the pic-
ture is great it must be viewed from quite another
standpoint.
• • »
We are not here dealing with the critic
who has not “ a vestige of art in his composition, *
but to maintain that any man, because he is not
an artist, oannot be a critic, is to condemn art at
once and for ever. Its aim disappears—its use
fades away from the se3thetic needs of life. In
other words, a man cannot enjoy—critically— a
play of Shakespeare's without being a dramatist.
He oannot appreciate—critically -the representa-
tion of Hamlet by Irving without being an actor.
He cannot critically lose his recollections of the
demands of the material world in the melodies of
a Mozart without being a musician. It narrows
the world down to the little admiration societies
of Little Pedlington. Surely no artist who had
an atom of self-respect would care to have his
works purchased by those who understood not
their meaning ? Yet if artists only are capable of
a proper appreciation of art—which we are told is
universal and eternal—artists must starve. And
all this nonsense arises from a notion, a poor, nar-
row, lame idea, that a knowledge of art is a mere
kno wle dge of technique. If pictures were pain ed
with a tar-brush on a pale-fence it would not sig-
nify to the true critic. The effect, the totality, is
all in all, the means by which it Is arrived are
not worth discussing—save to the artist. That is
hts business. He may paint pictures on packing-
felt, with a sponge dipped in whitewash, if he
chooses. The critic adjudges the value of
the work—not the means by which the
work is produced, And the further conten-
tion that only artists should be trustees
of art galleries is another fallacy. Being artists,
they would be to some extent disqualified. The
bold splendour of a “ genius" that was not “ dor-
mant” but rudely expressionful, would probably
be cast aside for the laboured dilletanteism and
technical correctness of some careful draughtsman
or artistically toilsome colourist. The glorious
but budding greatness of a Michael Angelo, who
had not learnt to draw properly, would perhaps
be consigned to a lumber-room to give place to
the painstaking but eviscerated efforts of “ dor-
mant capability,” which, like Professor Huxley's
prodigy, “ could make an accurate elevation,
plan, and section of a pint-pot.” In other words,
the greatest attention would be given to those
studies which evinced “ a most valuable training
of hand and eye,” and little or no attention
to those which evinced great imagination,
powerful conception, and that almost indefinable
quality He zlitt was fond of designating as
‘gusto.”
* * *
And if the State must foster art, why not
all art ? Wby should not the nation be put to the
cost of a training-school for poets ? Literature
has done most to lighten the woes of humanity,
therefore the litterateur should be fed by a grate-
ful fatherland, and, with the pictorial artist, fat-
tened for public use in an aesthetic sty.
Vanward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whatever the song, it never
Drtsils long with the bard who sings ;
Raal toil and real trouble sever
Whatever his fancy brings.
As scenes in the distance only
The artist can wholly paint,
The poet sings joys when lonely,
And strength when his heart grows faint.
But only when strivings bitter
Have frightened these joys away,
Yet time ha* not quenched their glitter
Nor hidden their bright array ;
Whiie, mocking and tantalizing,
They watch from the heights afar,
Where the heart is too faint for rising—
Attainless as phantoms are.
The sight, and the loss, more keenly
Deride with the lost things’ worth,
And, drawn by their beauties queenly,
The passionate song finds birth.
Yet sooner the dream Elysian
The rapt mind has scarce enjoyed, v
Than knows it is all a vision,
And nought is but dark and void.
And when in the daylight streaming
Perchance shall such poet stand,
A hundred strange eyes are gleaming
From shade-nooks on every hand.
And midst joy and midst strength he writeth
Their horrors, to feel them bo
As day-dreams that sunshine lighteth
Ere night can make real their woe.
Yet times are when the ideal
So brightly dawns on the heart,
That songs of a fervour real
Like carols of free birds start;
More bright, that the past was dismal;
Trane Cendant, the while they last !
But oh 1 to what depths abysmal
The fall, when ideals have passed 1
The soul that for song is fashioned
Is not for this world of ours,
Where fierceness taints all impassioned,
And serpents are in the flowers ;
Where strife and deceit are thronging,
And airs are with venom rife,
And the hours are filled with wronging,
And warfare alone is life !
While scarce the world’s wealth is tasted
By those who bring forth its store,
And, they, with their first-fruits wasted,
Toil vainly for evermore ;
While earth from earth’s sons is riven,
Who have not a place to stand,
And even as slaves are driven,
Or starve at their lord’s command—
While all of earth's good worth keeping
Is reft from by whom it was sown,
And garnered the bounteous reaping
By schemers who toil alone
To grasp what the rest are making;
And on to eruption mad
Humanity’s mount seems quaking—
Tnlnk you, can ths bard be glad ?
He longs for a world where gladness
Is wide as the radiant light;
Where sloth is the only sadness,
Where right is the onl> might.
Great joys from this world’s beginning
Have been ; he would share their bliss,
But he shrinks from the ghastly winning
By strife, as the world now is.
And yet, if now guideless bending
His footsteps to what is best,
The vanmost shall, in the ending,
Be first with the bright goal ble3t.
As his trial now it is, bo it
Shall be for his comfort given ;
And the chant of the world’s last poet
Shall peal from the vaults of Heaven !
J. A. ANDREWS .
Protection and Land Nationalisation.
Land Nationalisation is a great and a noble cause
but it does not comprehend within itself the
defence against every political danger to which
our community is exposed. Advocates of this
reform are prone to fall into the error of supposing
that it does : they are carried away by the very
vastness of the scheme, and seem to think that
when its enormous advantages are secured no-
thing more will be wanting to the perfect social
bliss of all classes of citizens. In this matter they
err in distinguished company. Henry George,
their leader in this great reform, is their leader
also in this error. In him the blunder was natural
enough. His theory is based upon the writings of
Bastiat, Quesne, and others, whose bite noir
was indirect taxation, for which they proposed to
substitute direct taxation of land values. He
expands and modifies the theories of these
authors, and, like them, makes the whole system
of indirect taxation bear the brunt of attacc.
His book on the question of “Protection and Free-
trade ” is almost entirely an attack upon indirect
taxation. Protective duties are to him (vide p. 86)
the only species of Custom House taxation capable
of any justification ; his fiercest censure is directed
against the revenue duties on imports—the duties
to which “Freetraders” of our day so resolutely
adhere. It is true that he regards protective
duties as being unnecessary, even under present
circumstances, the basis of this view, being the
somewhat startling argument that men who work
long hours do not do so much as men who work
short hours, and that men who receive high wages
do not produce so cheaply as men who are poorly
paid—a proposition wnioh he does not support
with any sufficient proof. But because he de-
clares for absolutely free ports, and for the aboli-
tion of all indirect taxation very many of his ad-
herents are prone to do likewise without examin-
ing the arguments upon which his sweeping
generalities are supposed to be founded.
* * *
Before pointing out why Protection must be
necessary to Australia, even after I and Nationali-
sation is accomplished, it is worth while to re-
mind enthusiastic associates of that reform that
their millennium is yet afar off. In acquiring the
unearned increment for its rightful owners, the
people, they will have to overthrow the banded
phalanx of land owners—a work requiring long
decades for its perfect accomplishment. He is a
super-sanguine man who supposes that the work
of reform will be completed during the next 30 or
even 50 years. And what is to become of the
working-classes meantime ? Are they to draw
sustenance from the anticipations of next century ?
Will they be able to cash “post obits” payable
after the death of private ownership of land l
Even if the interval were only 10 years there
would still be the necessity of affording present
relief, for the workman who can live upon nothing
for a whole decade is not yet reprt sented in the
community.
* # #
Apart from the foregoing consideration, it must
be evident that whether Land Nationalisation be
adopted or not, some measure of Protection must
always be necessaiy so long as the Co3t of produc-
tion is greater here than in other countries. And
Henry George to the contrary, notwithstanding,
the cost of production must, generally speak-
ing, be greater so long as the wages
per hour paid are higher than in coun-
tries with which we have to compete. A
proof of this fact may be found in the cabinet-
making industry of Sydney. A few years ago
this work was all done by eight-hour Australians,
but Chinese, working for less than one-half Aus-
tralian wages, have now almost completely
ousted our countrymen from this industry.
Hundreds of other familiar facts might be cited
to prove the same truth. In the matter of loco
motives, for instance, it is shown that England
and America can supply at 40 to 50 per cent, less
than Australian prices. Protection is a necessity
to the eight-hour system. If Australians were
content to work It! hours a day for the present
day’s wage there would be no need of Protection :
our limitless natural wealth of raw material
would make competition possible within an area
of production sufficiently wide to provide ample
employment for all willing workers. Such reduc-
tion of the rate of wages would, in fact, be
equivalent to an all-round protective duty of 50 per
cent, on imports. Henry George’s argumentas to
the dearer production by artisans working longer
hours is absurd, in face of the fact that a lower
wage is paid for the long, Old World day than for
the shorter term during which labourers work in
Australia. Break down the eight-hour system,
and Protection becomes unnecessary to our com-
munity ; sustain that system, and Protection is a
national necessity.
* * #
Land Nationalisers must also remember that
their reform would not directly tend to the crea-
tion of national wealth. Even if a yearly revenue
of £50,000,000 were by this means secured to the
Treasury, not one penny piece of that amount
would represent wealth added to the State or the
community. The sum would simply be taken
from the monopolists and given to the State.
There would be nothing more than a re-distribu-
tion of income ; if the State had so much more
revenue, individuals would have so much less.
Further—and this is a most important point—it
must be remembered that the increment of land
value depends entirely upon the productiveness
of the community. Wealth must bo produced, or
else land ceases to have any value at all. Take
the records of New South Wales and Victoria
during 1887 as illustrative of this basic truth. In
that year employment in the protected colony was
abundant —that is to say, the production of wealth
was great, and land increased in value from 10 to
200 per cent. ; in the “ Freetrade” colony, on the
contrary, employment was scarce, there was
but meagre wealth-production, and land in most
localities actually decreased in value. Instead of
there being any additional unearned increment in
New South Wales during 'B7, there was, generally
speaking, no increment of land values at all.
Therefore, even with Land Nationalisation
achieved, the sum of national wealth would not
increase if the productiveness of the land were
checked by the suppression or extinction of
national industries. Protection and Land
Nationalisation must, in this land of high wages
and short hours, go hand in hand : the one is the
complement of the other. Else when the battle
of land ownership is won, it may be found that
the spoils of the fight—despite the great natural
resources of our Continent—were not worth the
trouble of winning. Natural stores of the materials
of wealth arc worthless if foreign competition
takes from us the power of utilising them for our
own enrichment.


Parkes on Private Character.
At a reoent Centennial banquet, Sir Henry
Parkes waxed eloquent over the functions of the
Press. He praised one paper for its Opportunism
_of "which we are thankful to say he cannot
accuse The Bulletin— and bestowed a faint
eulogy on another organ on account of its large
circulation. Sir Henry, however, denounced
The bulletin for “slandering private character,”
and he did so simply because he cannot stand on
his private character and challenge the criticism
beneath the fierce light of which a Gladstone
walks unsullied. But The Bulletin glories in
being denounced by a man who has to totter
through a jeering world with the private char-
acter of Parkes. The record of his life is a tabu-
lated analysis of the most terrible propensities
whioh modern society—in Australia— saems will-
ing to endure in its “ statesmen." Each letter of
his name might stand as the synonym of an
odious characteristic —selfishness, ingratitude, in-
consistency, treachery to old and tried friends,
the fomentation of religious bigotry, egotism, in-
tolerance of opposition—the list is well nigh in-
exhaustible. The spectacle of such a man at the
head of a nascent nation at the ce'ebration of its
hundredth birthday, is enough to make the angels
weep. After all, when we read Parkes’ Centennial
Press speech, calmly and seriously, we think it is
better to be denounced as he denounced The Bul-
letin than praised as he praised certain of the Syd-
ney dailies. The opportunities, the golden oppor-
tunities, so eagerly seized and turned into coin in
the shape of Government advertisements, which
Parkes so warmly recognised as forming no in-
significant part of the policy of the Australian
Press, we regard as so many gilded smudges on
its reputation. The autocrat of New South
Wales accuses us of attacking private character,
simply because he cannot see that the private
citizen is inseparable from the public man. In
proof of this, we have only to take the fact that
the same person who sold a mortgaged allotment
to a day-wage labourer endeavoured also to cele-
brate a nation’s festival by a political burglary,
and treated colonies much in the same fashion as
he had time and again treated individuals. The
private life and the public life are indivisibly in-
tertwisted. We hold that a man who is dishonest
privately is dishonest publicly. Parkes may
object that the private citizen is one individual
and that the politician is another. He cannot re-
cognise that the functions of one overlap the
functions of the other. The law, however, does
so. The insolvent—unless he be a Parkes —is
compelled to vacate his seat in Parliament. The
man who has in certain ways transgressed cannot
—unless he be Parkes —represent a constituency
in the Parliament of the country. In some parts
of the world this rule is made more stringent than
in others. Parkes derives all his power from his
ability as a trickster, none of it from his moral
worth. The other day he told Australia that
honour did not consist in paying twenty shillings
in the pound. From his moral constitution,
Parkes is absolutely unable to tell Australia in
what honour does consist.
• * *
Parkes has no friend, simply because he never
understood the meaning and sanotity of friend-
ship. His force of will is great—great enough to
overawe the abject mediocrity of a cringing Par-
liament, but he derives none of his ascendancy
from the beauty of his private life. His egotism
is supernal, and history proves that egotism is
one of the most valuable factors in political ad-
vancement In moments of stupendous vanity
he flatters himself by publicly-made comparisons
of himself to Gladstone, a man from whose
private life calumny shirks in terror, and against
whom malignancy of the blackest dje turns pale
at its inability to launch one telling shaft.
Parkes clings to the skirts of Gladstone, but
he is of the brood that Gladstone spurns with
disgust. We want men as pure in their private
and in their public life as George Higinbotham.
Men of flesh and blood and human sjmpathies
who would transact the affairs of nations with
the same scrupulous regard for snow-white pro-
bity as they would the affairs of private indivi-
duals—not tricksters who would “slip up” their
creditors on Monday and coquette with States on
the day following ; who would sell their country
for a letter of the alphabet to be appended to
their names, and their election pledges for a gew-
gaw. Honesty is an individual and not a political
virtue. If a man has it not in his own proper person
in private life it surely does not suddenly descend
upon him when about to purchase for the State
and pay for from the public Treasury already
State-purchased and State-paid-for land ! And if
our affairs are to be conducted by men whom their
own alleged friends cannot trust, how can we be
trusted by the nations with whom on our account
they transact business ?
• * *
One nation should be able to deal with another
nation, as one man of honour with another man
of honour. But ho w can this be when we are
forced to speak through such sullied mouthpieces ?
Parkes, with hiSjtremendous egotism, will attempt
to justify himself alone upon his political career
Look well to it! To Foster and Greenwood he
owes his vaunted Education Bill. He is the
champion “ disher ” of his opponents. He is the
monumental plagiarist of Australian politics.
Not one single great Act owes its parentage to
Parkes’ brain. He has alternately supported
and denounced every principle. The private
insolvent Parkes is the public Parkes, the
wholesale appropriator of other men’s ideas. The
citizen cannot exist seperate from and coeval with
the politician, and Parkes is such a stupendous
egotist that, large though his frame may be, there is
no room in him for anybody but himself—himself,
the cold-blooded, ungrateful old vendor of mort
gaged allotments, and parent, by repute, of
second-hand enactments. Sir Henry objects
that we attack private character. Need any fear
the attack but those whose characters are vulner-
able? Let us take any fictitious case. Would fir
Henry hold for one moment that the man who
filled a high and important office in the State was
not mentally and morally incapacitated by such
dubious characteristics as denouncing the char-
acters of good-hearted, steadfast men simply
because they were opposed to him ? Of taking
to his bosom the cast-off and degraded creatures
of former days simply to subserve his own ends ?
Of dealing in moral and high-sounding platitudes,
while men walked the streets, whose
lives he had commetcially ruined? Of , whole-
sale deception for immediate advantages? Of —
of transgressing every law of that unwritten code
whose observance makes society possible and con-
duces no less than the laws inscribed within the
Statute-Book to the solidarity of a State ? There
are men who have not the great ability of Sir
Henry Parkes who are honoured for their pri-
vate worth alone. There are men in the Parlia-
ment over which Sir Henry “rules,” some few,
and few enough, but enough to preserve that
Parliament from absolutely rotting, who would
perish ere they would allow a single stain to
smirch their fair reputations as mere private
citizens. From the statesman we demand that
fierce, that almost unrelenting integrity which
borders on the austere. It is not enough
that he should be a.ble to tell us what honour is
not. We require that he should know and prac-
tise honour as it is. His life, though private,
should be like hers who aspires to be the wife of
C/esar —above suspicion. His private character
should be as flawless as any human being's can be.
He should never excuse the laches of the citizen
by urging the claims of the statesman. Provided
his own honour were clear as the noonday sun, our
honour would be safe and untarnished in his
keeping. He should disdain to cover the sins of
the man with the mantle of office, and if he some-
times blundered we should feel that it was but
the stumbling of one whose steadfast eyes were
fixed upon the light of high-set stars.
PLAN ENGLISH.
The Only Real Remedy.
Editor Bulletin, — The Press has been in a fer-
ment over the “discovery” of the fact that
manure-factories, known by the title of “ baby-
farms,” exist about Melbourne; that women
saddled with illegitimate children, and even
legitimate ones coupled with misery, hand them
over to these establishments —in some cases ignor-
antly and blindly, on account of the cheapness,
and in other instances with a full expectation of
a fatal result ; that, instead of being Killed in
the comparatively humane fashion which might
be punished by the gallows, the wretched infants
are starved and exposed in every possible way to
death in its most wearisome and horrible form
to the living tomb of corruption born of deliber-
ately-inflicted want, and squalor, and disease, and
foulness, until the end would be a present mercy
even could the shattered frame be doctored into
living for the natural term. They are eloquent
over these horrors, and well they may be, but of
what sort is their eloquence and of what avail ?
It is all very well to shudder at what is evil; it
is quite another thing to act and rectify it. There
is nothing on earth more pitiful to contemplate
than this spectacle of mothers driven by poverty
and ignorance ; nothing more appalling than that
of those cruelly dead to all natural affections ;
nothing more bitterly heartrending than that of such
as are forced by circumstances and the unnatural
shame of maternity—the intention to engage in
which has not been registered in advance —to
trample upon and crush those feelings, trafficking
with feminine ghouls, and purchasing ruin
and destruction for their own flesh and blood.
What, therefore, can be the first thought but to
find a remedy ? And one would fancy that
thoughts, under these conditions, would be
earnest and serious, not mere haphazard sugges-
tions. Yet not a word has been said as to any-
thing which might be more than a slight allevia-
tion of the slightest portion of the evil. We hear,
forsooth, of Morality Associations, and again of a
creche or Foundling Hospital, the latter of some
slight use in its way, no doubt. But it would
chiefly benefit the merely indigent, for those
women who stood in fear of shame would still be
haunted with a knowledge of the child’s where-
abouts and the fear of future complications, and
would largely, in sheer selfish terror, prefer the
death system minus responsibility, as at present
organised by the harpies whose evil deeds have
aroused Melbourne to pious indignation.
The dead are soon forgotten, and de-
velope no likeness which suspicion can use
in evidence; they have no interest in dis-
covering their parentage at, it may be, the most
inconvenient time ; and thus the evil at bottom
would remain untouched. There is only one way to
strike at the root of this national crime, and that is
to retain the marriage contract as a mere arrange-
ment for domestic management, and legitimize
not only all children, but all child-bearings.
For the very germ of the morbid state of mind in
which it is at all possible for a woman to compass
her child’s destruction is this, that the bitterness of
shame and degradation within her mind at the
fear of what the world will say and do, rebounds
in the form of positive hatred of the physical
body of the infant. And this is purely owing to
an artificial state of surroundings. There is no
reason for society to concern itself with the cir-
cumstances of any birth as such. The marriage
contract is a mere civil security for maintenance,
say what anyone will ; everything must be
either intrinsically right or intrinsically wrong,
and the mere fact of a contract directly or in-
directly bearing upon it cannot affect that must.
It does not matter whether a tree is planted under
contract or otherwise—and the land contains it
just as legally; if it were not so, nobody would be
surprised at the grower of an uncontracted-for
tree uprooting it to avoid calumny. And what
holds good of the one case does of the other. It is
simply the present condition of the marriage sys-
tem, &c., which holds out a premium for the ex-
termination of children not begotten under
authorised patronage. When it becomes other-
wise, three-quarters of the desertions, with all
their attendant sufferings, will cease for want of
a purpose.
+
Centennial Civilisation.
Just upon one hundred years ago—it was in the
May»of 1788 —two sailors of H.M.S. Sirius com-
mitted a common assault upon a man on Shark
Island, just inside the entrance of Sydney Har-
bour. They punched his head and otherwise
cuffed him, and the authorities of the day
awarded them each 500 lashes. The punishment
could not, however, be “ completedthe men
were suffering from scurvy. History repeats
itself. The other day it was sought to fittingly
celebrate the glorious first century of Australian
settlement by flogging a degraded wretch for an
indictable offence on a girl, and the
punishment here, too, fell through, for the man
was suffering from scurvy, but it was inside, not
outside. It was scurvy of the mind. It was his
second flogging. He had already suffered the
nervous tortures incident upon the application of
15 lashes, and he utterly broke down. He was a
highly-strung man, suffered acutely in his mind
beforehand, and, in official language, “gave great
trouble ” as he dreaded the punishment extremely.
Blood was drawn at the second stroke, and
the recent festival received its libation of
human gore. At the tenth stroke the doctor
ordered that the prisoner be given a drink of
water and the fiogger was commanded to finish
up the dose by “pretending” to flog so as to
comply with the sentence. The Press, which per-
sists in a strangely studious silence regarding
these matters, reported that “ the scene was a
very painful one.” Painful is no word for it, but
just look at the case! Here was an admittedly
broken-down, nervously-wrecked man condemned
to two years’ imprisonment, but lest he should
sybaritise too luxuriously in gaol he is further
condemned to two floggings of 15 lashes each. To
flog for crimes possibly springing from nervous dis-
order is sheer lunacy. Offences of the nature
for which the man was flogged involve a study of
and an almost supernal acquaintance with the
whole phenomena of the sexual mystery, and an
admission of his guilt might only be tantamount
to an admission of his insanity. But the greatest
evil lie 3 in the fact that the sentence was ordered
to be merely “formally complied with,” The
fiogger is instructed to lash a coat or the legs of
the triangle, and thus is the law brought into
contempt. If it is necessary that society should
avenge brutality by brutality why is the judicial
brutality administered only in form 1- Either
the punishment is a deterrent or it is not.
If its shadow is enough, why not go through the
mere form of hanging for murder, and rest
satisfied with the result ? If brutal sins must be
washed out by brutal punishment, then, Society,
fulfil your mission! Seize with your whetted
teeth the ear of the offender, and chew it off ;
bury your fangs deep in his larynx ; but do not thus
bring scorn and contumely upon your laws. If they
are necessary, administer them. This playing at
retribution is only offering a bonus to daring crime
The truth is that such punishments are fast de-
generating into a farce. Assaults of the most
flagrant and unredeemable nature may be com-
mitted provided the offender is a “gentleman,”
To the well-attired and the well-connected novice
is denied or visited with corporal punishment. The
lash is no longer of any meaning as regards crime
It is simply an evidence of the social status of
the offender. It proclaini3 that the criminal
wears a fustian jacVet and not a coat of broad-
cloth. If you would sin with impunity, put on a
frock-coat. Your face it-ay be sufficient to hang
you, but your coat, carries redemption in it?,
patrician folds. Herein is the disease and the an-
tidote. No evilly-disposed man should neglect
his wardrobe, or fail to keep on good terms with
his tailor.
-SI Versus 1130.
The wilted Orange rooster fought what looks like
his last fight at Newtown, Sydney, on Friday,
and by tremendous exertions the draggle-tailed
bird came in ahead by a majority of 81. In the
New South Wale 3 general election of February,
1887, the leading Freetrade candidate scored 1120
votes in advance of his Protectionist rival, and
even the lowest of the three supporters of Parkes
and his policy of assistance to foreign industries
received 822 more suffrages than the badly-
defeated Smith. One year’s experience, however,
of the glorious prosperity which attends on a
Freetrade policy has sufficed to reduce this
majority of 1120 to the miserable total of 81; the
actual strength of the Protectionist vote at the
polls has increased by 600 votes, and against this
600 Freetraders, who 12 months ago were pre-
pared to bet their immortal souls on Parkes,
disappeared from the list of his supporters. But,
while conscious that their cause is going down-
hill with a velocity almost unexampled in Aus-
tralian politics, the Freetraders mads ever / exer-
tion that men could make to cover the dreadful
falling-off. Abigail, the semi-illiterate cobbler,
who helps to boss a pawnshop with a spread-
eagle title on the brass plate outside, which
charges the working man 200 per cent, for
a loan on his horse and cart, stumped the
electorate and appealed to the toilers whose blood
is sucked by his gilded institution to support the
cause which is fast putting all New South Wales
up the spout. The renegade geophagist from
Mudgee raised his old cry that the R.C. vote was
going solid for Protection and that every good
white man who wanted to rile the Pope must vote
for Abbott. The Orangemen, who industriously
propagated the yarn of a great t apal organisa-
tion, were themselves organising, and at a con-
clave held at Newtown they resolved on giving
their unanimous support to the Freetrade candi-
date. The Government also lent a hand by fixing
the polling day for a fc‘ riday, when a large number
of the working men, whose interests lie in the
promotion of local instead of British, German, and
Chinese industry, were debarred by their occupa-
tions from voting; and, in addition to this side
blow at the Protectionist cause, they released the
Civil servants —the men who, as a rule, care little
for the country so long as they get their screws re-
galarly and can buy elegant English boots
with facility and despatch—to give a solid vote for
Abbott. Why the Civil servant should get a
holiday in order that he may vote, instead of taking
his chance before or after working hours like any
other man, has never yet been explained, and
why elections should not be held on Saturday, so
that the humble labourer who wants Protection
may have as good a show as the dude who will
probably be sacked if he doesn’t go for Freetrade,
is another unfathomable problem. Yet, with all
these agencies at work, the IPreetrade victory was
only the forlorn shadow of the triumph of 12
months ago. The result was so depressing that it
is more than doubtful if the Grange phalanx will
ever roll up again as a united political force. It
is held together chiefly by the oft-repeated false-
hood that the Pope is the head of the
New fcouth Wales Protectionists, and when
this mendacious bubble bursts, as it soon
must, the unnatural union between re-
ligion and politics will be at an end. In Victoria,
the leading Orangemen are among the heads of
the Protectionist party, and this alone should
show that the ghost of Dutch William has not
necessarily any connection with the cheap pants
and foreign gimcracks which are manufactured
for the colonial market by the white slaves of
London and Birmingham. Mr. Abbott himself
went back on the unscrupulous bigots who dragged
the spectres of old sectarian feuds from their
graves to fight for the Calico Jemmies of Yom-
street, and declared that “if other issues had
been brought into the contest it had not been by
him,” The chief apology now put forward by
the Freetraders for the hideous falling off in their
roll-call is the bald old assertion that a
great number of their party did not vote,
while the Protectionists rolled up to the last man,
but this assertion is a palpable lie in view of the
fact that more electors voted last Friday ,1. a at
the poll of February, 1887, and the only c nge
noticeable was in the sentiments of the o pie,
who, 12 months ago, were gulled into pi, ing
their trust in Parxes. The only living Free-
trader who has any cause for congratulation over
the Newtown Election is Francis Abigail, who
emerged from the shady halls of his pawnshop to
offer a reward of £5 for the capture of any voter
who was found in the act of personation. The
reward, presumably, was only offered for the
scalp of any personating Protectionist, and as the
chief personators were the Freetraders, it
was not claimed. The election was won
not at Newtown but at Sydney, where wholesale
and shameless manipulation ran up a majority of
over 100, and consequently the Minister of
the pawnshop saves the proffered £5, and adds
it reverently t® the bank account where another
£25, offered under somewhat similar ausp ices, is
still reposing.
♦
About the drollest job ever perpetrated w ith
Victorian public money is that elegant Govern
ment steamer, the Lady Loch. No serious
attempt to explain the raison d'etre of this
novelty was made at the outset, but the public
swallowed it with their ususl indifference, and
took it for granted that a Government steamer
was a long-felt want. Perhaps the large ma-
jority believed the Lady Loch to be a fast cruiser
intended to repel Russian invasions, and other-
wise assist the great cause of freedom. Two
j ears’ experience of the movements of this expen-
sive and appropriately-named craft show that she
has no other mission than that of providing
Duncan Gillies and his ministering angels with
water picnics—charged to the Estimates. When
the penny-wise and-pound-wiser Premier needs
rest and recreation, he victual* the Lady Loch
with chicken and champagne, and has a howling
time on the ocean wave, his grateful colony
squaring the account. From time to time there
have been remar. s that this thrifty bachelor in-
tended to create himself an admiral and hoist
his flsg on the Lady Loch, so that he might live
rent free afloat when he wasn't drawing his salary
ashore. Up to the present, however, Duncan
has found it more convenient to j-ieeo on his town
house, and use the steamer as a p ivate “yot”
merely. He yotted her over to Sydney the other
day—expenses being charged to the Estimates, as
per usual Truly, Duncan might have saved
time by using a special train, also free of charge;
but then he must have paid for his own refresh-
ments at stopping-places, which he avoided by
taking the ocean route. And just here we may
mention that Chief Secretary Deakin didn’t Cen-
tenniate because he feared to participate in this
last scandal. Young Alfred is but a novice in
political crime—the dread of being bullied by a
virtuous Opposition when “Lady Loch” is next
under discussion kept him in Melbourne after he
found that his superior officer had determined to
go a-s ailing on the never. Possibly Alfred’s con-
science reminded him that his European friend,
Lord Salisbury, has the decency to pay for what he
eats and drinks when travelling just like the
meanest taxpayer. Possibly the still, small voice
whispered to him that the most brazen British
Tory Ministry has never ventured to build a
Government pleasure boat. Anyway, it is stated
as a fact that the Chief Secretary of Victoria re-
fused to aid and abet Premier Gillies in this last
wanton waste of other people’s cash. Let the
Victorians rouse themselves from their contented
slumber and keep their eye on the free-victualling
owner of the Lady Loch. The opposition
which Deakin affects to fear has no existence ex-
cept in Hansard’s reports. When Mr. Tommy
Bent and his followers raise a sham rumpus over
one job it is only to divert attention from a
greater one in which they are aiding their friend
the enemy.
«
The Sydney Sunday-School children have had
their Centennial treat, but, according to all
accounts, it was a severe frost. They gathered
at the Agricultural Show Ground on 4th February
and, after marching about for hours in the fierce
sun, were gathered together in a heap without a
particle of shelter opposite the old grand-stand—
the new one having blown down. The aristo-
cracy, the nobility, the clergy, and the people
who were good enough, upon payment, to mix
with them, were accammcdated with shade and
seats and shelter in the stand itself, but the chil-
dren, who had already done a good day’s work,
were herded together in the pitiless downpour of
the unmitigated sunlight and compelled to recite
the Lord’s Prayer and sing nine long hymns,
which, when printed, make quite a respectable
pamphlet—we have a copy of this precious pro-
duction. But this was only a tithe of their suffer-
ings. Bishop Barry, from the shelter of the
grand-stand, lectured the poor little beggars about
Oh istian endurance, and the Secret of England’s
Greatness, for along, dreary time —his speech lasted
over 10 minutes—and Lord Cahington had also a
lictle piece of Vice-regal twaddle for their special
edification. We must, however, in justice to the
latter, state that, unlike Barry, he showed some
consideration for the children, and said as little
as possible. Then the youngsters were informed
that they might go and eat; that is, each school
was granted hind permission to provide refresh-
ments for its own scholars, but the Government,
which had recently spent thousands of pounds in
entertaining a lot of titled loafers and travelling
bagmen with second-rate handles to their names,
had not a penny to spend upon the creature com-
forts of the poor little brats who had been march-
ing, and howling, and praying in the remorseless
glare of an Australian midsummer sun, to lend a
little sanctified glitter to the tawdry celebration
of the “ Day We Were Lagged.” A lot of schools
could not afford refreshments for their scholars.
The money had to come from somewhere, and
some schools were too poor to feed all their
youngsters. At all events, the cost of a public
event was thrown upon private charity. Reliable
authority bears testimony to the fact that a lot of
children fainted, and a great number went home
without refreshments at all. Some schools were
very indignant, as, had they known the
intention of the Government, they could have
made arrangements, even if upon no other line,
by staying away. But what a frightful satire
was this upon the Church’s most cherished insti •
tution—that of prayer, 'i his is calculated to bring
the chief bulwark of the State —religion—into
contempt. thousands of children recite the
Lord’s Prayer, and ask trustingly for “daily
bread,” with the expectation of getting a currant-
bun and a bottle of ginger-beer, and they get
neither a stone nor a drink of water. If the Mate
is anxious to preserve the inviolability of faith it
will be necessary either to plank the “grub, ” or
make some arrangement with Providence for a
supply. To allow these quickly-apprehensive
little intellects to discredit the power of prayer
is calculated to shake the very foundations
of our national greatness. Perhaps, however,
this is another of the moral aspects of Freetrade.
Dear Bulletin, — The pen was never
employed to urge a mere noble and deserving
cause than that of the starving unemployed of
London. I humbly congratulate you on your
eloquent appeal to true hearted Australians to
mark the centenary of Australia by ministering to
the dire necessities of their ragged fellow-men,
who, in this season of our festivity, are without
help or pity starving in Modern Babylon. How-
ever, “ solid pudding against empty words,”
and it now remains for all men possessing a
“ripe and good heart” to practically exem-
plify their desire to relieve their suffering
brothers, who are tasting Tory coercion in re-
sponse to their bitter and justifiable cry for help.
Australians ! if you have pity, if you possess a
particle of manly feeling, give sterling evidence of
it now, and thereby repudiate the acquieaesnce
(implied by silent apathy) in the shameful actions
of British (!) rulers, who, scintillating in pompous
magnificence and rolling in abundance, laugh at
the calamities of hunger-stricken London poor.
If The Bulletin will receive subscriptions, I
firmly believe that the hungry will be fed, and a
stream of sunlight from Australia will be shed on
the wretched so-called homes of these, our miser,
able English brothers.— A. Rickard, Paddington,


HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
One of the heroic stories of the period is
thatcf “the Scotch Martyrs,” who were trans-
ported in 1794 They were Messrs. Mnir, Palmer,
Gerald, Margarot, and Sktrving, and the story of
these men is a standing comment on the British
civilisation and enlightenment of the day. At
about this time England had just goaded the
Americans and Irish into rebellion, and begun her
career of arms in India under Wellesley,
the period of fraud being over. She had
founded New South Wales, and frustrated
the designs of Providence by making Australia
the abode of all the vile growths that her own
grim social and political codes had called into
existence. Having successfully created such a
receptacle for vice and crime, it is instructive to
see the class of people she sent out to fill it.
# • *
Muir was a Scotch barrister, and when an
association was formed in London to bring about
certain reforms in Parliament by constitutional
means, his sympathies were enlisted. He helped
to form a branch of the “Fiiends of the People”
in Glasgow. All the members subscribed to a
declaration of adherence to the established
Government, and claimed to ba acting merely
within their constitutional rights. The Glasgow
Association reprinted seme tracts issued by the
London branch, and Mr. Muir was thereupon
charged with “ sedition.” The others were in-
dicted with him, and the trial is one of the scan-
dals of history. The ruffianly Brabonrne helped
to try the cases, and all the Court influence was
worked on and off the Bench to secure a convic-
tion When the accused left their hotel to attend
the Court the horses were taken from the chaise,
and an applauding crowd took their places.
Arches and wreaths were held over Margarot as
he passed along the street, bearing such words as
“ Reason,” “ Liberty,” and so forth inscribed
thereon. The Lord Provost, with some con-
stables and a “ press-gang,” met the procession,
smashed the emblems, and took many into cus-
tody. There was never any doubt about the ver-
dict. Margarot was sentenced to 14 years’
transportation beyond the seas, Muir to seven
years, and the others to various terms.
» • •
An appeal was made to the Commons on
behalf of Muir, and the Right Hon. William
Adam moved and Mr, Fox seconded an address
to the Crown on his behalf. The Government
whipped up its party and defeated the motion,
and the Annual Register for 1794 says that on
February 10 ; - “ Messsrs. Muir, Margarot, Skirv-
ing, and Palmer were removed from Newgate in
a post coach and four, attended by two King’s
messengers. We learn that they were taken cn
board vessels hound to Botany Bay.” Gerald
followed a few months later. The Secretary of
State charged the gaolers of these men to “ keep
a watchful eye over their conduct,” and to search
their effects diligently for seditious literature
before allowing them to land. Brick huts
along the side of Sydney Cove were assigned for
their residencas. Muir afterwards lived at
Hunter's Hill, which he named after his patri-
monial estate in Scotland, and Gerald bought land
where the Botanic Gardens now are in Sydney.
They made repeated applications to be allowed to
return home, but the vindictive spirit that sent
them forth dreaded freedom of opinion too much
to accede to these requests. Gerald, who was a
man of amiable and refined character, died in
1796, and was buried in his little plot of ground
at his own request. Skirving only survived him
three days. “A dysentery "was the apparent
cause of his death," says Collins, “but his heart
was broken. Amongst us he was a pious, honest,
worthy character. In this settlement his political
principles never manifested themselves, but all
his solicitude seemed to be to evince himself the
friend of human nature. Requiescat in pace,"
adds this good Collins, feelingly. A “friend of
human nature ” was more likely to rest peacefully
under the ground than on it in Botany Bay at
that time.
* * *
When the story of these prosecutions be-
came known in France and America, the newly-
awakened popular sentiment cf those countries
was deeply stirred. The whole business was ore
of barefaced and shameless persecution. The late
Chief Justice Cockburn has stated that the jury
in Muir's case was packed by Lord Jeffrey of
“ Edinburgh Review ” fame ; the former never re-
ferred to this iniquitous case without horror.
Muir’s treatment in prison, we are ex-
pressly told, was vindictive and cruel.
He employed his time after reaching fydney In
alleviating the miseries of the more abandoned of
the convicts, and in protesting against being
treated himself as a felon. The speeches of Adams
and Fox had been read, and honest men had felt
their blood boil at the story they told, Washing-
ton, In America, interested himself on behalf of
this sufferer for liberty, end a vessel called the
“ Otter” was fitted out to enable him to escape
from the colony. She arrived in Port Jackson
under pretence of trade, and on February 11 Mr.
Muir was smuggled on board, and made his es-
cape out to sea. The ship got safely away, but
was wrecked off California All were drowned
Have Muir and two sailors. They followed the
shore-line for four thousand miles on foot to reach
Panama. At Vera Cruz, Mnir shipped as a sailor
on board a Spanish man-of-war going home. But
capricious fate shill followed him, for the ship was
captured by a British frigate, and Mu'r, in the
confliot, had the top of his head shot away. When
the boarding-par:y came cn board one of the men
lifted the apparently lifeless body of Muir
in his arms to throw it overboard with
the rest, when an officer saw a Bih'e
in his clasped hand. He opened it, and knew
Muir’s name as that of a dear old friend and
schoolfellow. He was oarefally examined, found
stiil living, and sent to the hospital at Cadiz.
Here he reoo?ered, and the French Directory,
hearing of him again, invited him to
Bordeaux, where he was entertained at a ban-
quet by 500 French gentlemen. Then he went to
Parle, where he was publicly welcomed. He rose
to speak at the banquet given him there, and
fainted from excitement and weakness. He was
taken to Chantilly, where he died in 1798, the
French Government decreeing a State funeral to
this early colonist, of whom Australian political
leaders hve never mentioned the name. The
story adds that a message was sent to the mar-
tyr’s parents, “ who soon after died of grief at his
loss.” His age was 33.
• • •
This is a romantic story, which will be
printed in school-hooks and told to every Aus-
tralian sohoolboy before another generation
passes away; and the lives of these men will be
quoted as lessons from which the Australian
public spirit of the future may draw sustenance
and vigorous life. Young Australia will learn
from such stories, as well as from Its own history
when candidly ‘old, why this Continent cannot
consent to remain an appanage Of a country which
has progressed muoh and far since these things
were done, but which Is kept back in the race of
modern development under a dead weight of un-
wieldy interests, vested rights, and inherited cus-
toms, by which Australia need only be tram-
melled as long as her people please. In is the
names of men like Muir and Margarot that will be
taught to schoolboys by-and-bje, and not the
names of squalid gaolers and convict-officers who
masquerade in Australian history as our early
officials and governois. Siberia has no more
romantic story than that of Thomas Muir.
* * *
Margarot had other work to do ; and the
mention of his name brirgs our story back to the
trading officers of the New South Wales Corps,
and the events which culminated in what is nobly
called the “ Deposition of Governor Bligb.” Mar-
garot served out the whole period of his 14 years’
sentence in the colony, and it was two years later
before he was allowed to get away. He was
present all through the latter 16 years of the
Corps’ career of wholesale robbery and spoliation,
and from his evidence given before the Committee
of the House of Commons on the state of the
colony we are able to draw unexceptionable in-
formation as to the officers' ways and means.
Something has already been said about tbeir
usury, their daylight robbery, and their mono-
poly &f*trade and business of every kind and this
will serve to throw light on what is to follow.
We will look at Mr. Margarot’s evidence again
later on.
* * *
The case of Governor Bligh has been made
one of the difficult points of Australian history.
The reason for this is apparent at a Blance. From
what has gone before, the unprejudiced reader
will be able to glean a fair idea of the men who
exercised early authority in the colony, and of
the officers of the New South Wales Corps in par-
ticular. What he has read will not have pre-
pared him to find these persons leading a popular
movement, and defying the King’s representa-
tives in the name, and on behalf of, a suffering
people. Yet this is the character these men have
unblushingly given themselves. Facts have been
distorted, and feeble psrverters of Australian re-
cords have been corrupted, either by a pander’s
bribe or by native stupidity, to repeat the story
the officers and their friends have shamelessly
put forward. The time has come to change all
that, and to show that the claim of ” our first
families,” in this instance, is based on hypocritical
cowardice and false pretences alone. In clearing
up this moot point in the squalid history of Botany
Bay, as in the others elsewhere given, the present
writer has collected facts from all sources, and has
putthemtrgether in their proper order. This simple
yet novel arrangement ef Australian records puts
the case before the reader in the plainest and
most candid way. He can then iudgefor himself.
•
The conflict between the Corps and the
Governors, as we have seen, did not begin with
Bligh. It began with Phillip, and every Governor
after him felt the consequences of any inter-
ference with the nefarious practices of the officers.
Governor Hunter, whose intentions on the whole
were much better than his grammar, incurred
their special enmity. Macarthur went home to
work up influence against him at headquarters,
and his machinations led to Hunter’s recall,
Captain King was commissioned ostensibly
to relieve Hunter, who merely gave up
his appointment temporarily. As soon as
that respectable man was “crimped” on
board, as it were, it became known that
King’s appointment was a permanent one. Hun-
ter went home and was allowed to die in neglect.
King was a typical sea captain, full of strange
oaths, and irascible to a degree. Of course he
quarrelled with the Officers. He filled a despatch-
box with elaborate reports on their misconduct.
They bribed a London pickpocktt to pick
the lock, look out the documents, and put in
old newspapers in their stead. W hen the box
was opened in London the Duke of Portland
doubtless thought the unoouth sailor-governor
had blundered, as it were, in a passing moment of
intoxication. Mr. Macarthur wanted to fight a
duel with his colonel, and King sent him home
under arrest.
* * •
The real nature of the quarrel between
the officers and the Governors came out when
Kmg gave certain emancipated convicts the right
to sell rum. This was wounding the officers in
the apple of the eye, so to speak. They protested
against this monstrous interference with their
privileges, and Major Jphpston, who was wise in
council as we have seen him brave after battle,
objected in these gallant words “I do not look
upon convicts conditionally emancipated as amen-
able to the articles of war, or on a footing with
those who are considered the respectable inhabi-
tants of this colony, nor do I imagine that I could
justify my conduct were I to sanction such a
measure.” This was in 1803, and it expresses
the jealousy felt by the officers in regard to the
emancipated convicts, who were beginning to
compete with them in trade. For 40 years after,
attempts were made to keep the line of demar-
cation rigidly defined.
« * *
The officers persecuted King until they
drove him out of the country. Their attacks took
the meanest and most imsoldierlike form. They
wrote rude and indecent verses, and dropped
them in a cowardly way about his premises. They
circulated clumsy lampoons from hand to hand,
of which the venom was more apparent than the
wit. One bard was inspired to sing thus : -
“ For infamous acts from my birth I'd an itch,
My fate I foretold but too true ;
Though a rope I deserved, which is justly my
due,
I shall actually die in a ditch.
And be damned.”
It will be scan that the officers kept an eye on
Jack Ketch even when they burst into song.
The verses of these people were as bad as their
moral characters. They secured their point at
last in making King “ humbly implore leave of
absence to submit his conduct” for home consi-
deration. He got it, and Bligh took his place.
Melbourne Leader had an article on
“ The Analysis of a Tear.” Ii quite depends on
how you pronounce it, but as the Leader says
there is soda in it we are sure of its orthoepy.
We will accept that journal’s authority oa tho
subjeot without a moment’s hesitation.
Joy! “Sydney May all,” apparently an
English visitor, writing to the Melbourne Herald,
says : “ For all-round smartness, for the strength
of its splendid satires, and for the Aristarohlan
power of its iconoclastic leaders there is, perhaps,
no paper in the world ahead of the Sydney Bul-
letin, and few, if any, that can range alongside
it.” The same enlightened man states that he
has heard many of our native nobility speak of
“ tryantulaa’—but that’s nothing. In the very
best circles they a r e “ tryantelopes."
CORRESPONDENCE
A. Martin : The reason why the Adelaide sea-
men gave way in the recent strike for the amalgamation of
the Masters and Mates' Union with that of the seamen was
this : A large portion of them distrusted the masters and
mates, who had ratted on them before, and the Melbourne
and Sydney Unions completely agreed with them in this
feeling. Consequently, the more advanced men, who saw
that the masters and mates were as much wage-slaves
though on a higher plane, as the seamen, were over-ruled,
and the chance of thoroughly welding the whole seafariDg
class into one was 105 t.... Judex Dam natur: Too straight....
Alas: We don't hail from that country... .W.W. (Manly):
You ask us •• whether Cardinal Moran was at any time in
his life a Presbyterian 1" Why don’t you ask us whether
Mahomet was at any time a hard-sh 11 Baptist ?
lvurragong (Brisbane): Many thanks. Name-sugge3tion
old Cynion : Will consider...Pylvanus: Address Colonial
Secretary s Office, Brisbane J.P.: Please call Spbynx
(Walcha): Letter for you at local P.O Brothers Home
(Tasmania): Thanks for cutting....C.C. : Buy Mr. Lindt’s
beautiful work on New Ouinea... ,E. J. Laidley : The Pro-
tectionist party are as yet wholly unrepresented in the
Queensland press, which exists mainly on importers' adver-
tisements J.M.H, (Cowra): Held for future use....
Enquirer : Th 9 phrase, “ Old-hat politicians ” was invented
by Frank Stephen, who, 20 years ago, said, ia a speech that
Sir James M Culloch's influence was so great that if In
nominated an old hat for a constituency it would be re-
turned Henry Joy (Clermont): The Australian Free-
traders make piles of capital out of Cleveland’s recent mes-
sage to Congress, but they don’t see that it’s the abuse of
Protection, not Protection, which he pegs at. He says :
“Itis a condition ivhich confronts us, not a theory. Relief
from this condition may involve a slight reduction of the ad.
vantages which we award our home productions, hut the
entire withdrawal of such advantages should not be contenr
plated." Protection made the American manufactures and
Protection will keep them. ..R H. (Perth): Much obliged....
E S. : Why shouldn’t the".jury, after finding the verdict, also
assess the sentence ? Juries fix damages, why shouldn't
they fix punishments ?....C. Paton : And yet the N.S.W.
“Freetrade” Government will not put up the Murray
bridge at Tarrawonga for fear some of the N.S.W. trade be
diverted into Victoria. But they have no objection to ruin-
ing all the N.S.W. manufacturers by flooding the country
with cheap-labour imports. How deliriously consistent l
... .G.M. (Mackay): Perkins'terrific attack on Groom was
expunged from the records of the Queensland House, and
Hansard knoweth it not, neither in the daily Press reports
is much of it to be discovered H.W. (Sydney): Thanks
....J.H.M. (Brisbane): Verses which have already been
published, no matter how good they may be. are, as a rulei
to good to The Bulletin . Gemmy Blow Hard : Hand-
writing unintelligible; spelling and grammar follow suit
Hue: Idea excellent, likewise the execution. You have exe-
cuted the idea ..Demos: Yes, Henry Gsorge is a Socialist
in the broad sense, just as Shakespeare or Gcethe was.
When he disclaims the brand of honour, he simply declines
to be considered a sympathiser with the special Socialistic
movement which aims at the nationalisation of capital,
labour, and all the other sources of production. Henry George
desires the nationalisation of only one source of production
—the Lard. Queensland will be just as well off as the other
oolonies. Nay, better, as naval defence will cost her
nothing. It is England's interest to protect her commerce,
and colonial commerce would, in the event of war, be pro-
tected even if the colonies contributed not a penny J.
Fairnie : You are a Christian with a vengeance to send a dog
to Heaven, but you are not original. Pope's Indian had a
cur to bear him company to the happy hunting grounds.
Besides, we have too many yelping, sleepless curs on
earth. We decline even Heaven at the figure.... Poor
Bushman: You complain of deferred payment by the
N.S.W. Government for work already completed. Do you
not know who is head of the Government in that unhappy
land! Deferred payment is one of his strongest points....
Thomas Winter : Will look into the matter....J. Herbert-
leraven : Thanks for letter in re Land Nationalisation....
Month : Thanks for par.. John Sheldon: Received.. Sil
bume : Read the works of Collins, Phillip, King, Hunter,
Wentworth, Backhouse, Reid, Therry, Barrington, Mudio
Flanagan, and Hervey —Sydney Native: Letter mis-
laid until too lfrte to notice matter W. A. :
The Contagious Diseases Act is a complete failure in
Brisbane. Seeing that every session it is only saved by a
small majority, no oare or energy is expended by the officials
in carrying cut its provisions. The consequence is, not only,
of, course, that the effects in the community are terrible, but
that the condition of the abandonnees is as low there as any-
where else Kiama Effigy: Will attend to clipping....
Kangarooemuiaq : Hory (musing ! Kangarrulity go further,?
Rien/i: Will read lengthy screed,,..S.A.C. : Give
poetry best, and stick to newspaper prose....Moi-mfime
(Brisbane): Write to Dymock, bookseller, King-street, Syd-
ney A. Qirokham: Many thanks fpr item.
Mayor Harris, of Sydney, has made re-
ductions of £4q,000 a year in the civip expendi-
ture.
A great) job is in progress pver the pro-
posed leasing of the N.S.W, tramways to a
syndicate.
Mr. Alfrec], Deakin, the Victorian Demos-
thenes, says politics tire him to death, and he
yearns to get into business.
Mr. James Service has arrived in Mel-
bourne at the instance of the Melbourne Argus,
which is getting tired of Duncan Gillies.
After all the millions sunk ip gold-mining
in N.S.W., only one public gold company haß
paid a dividend for some years past, and that is a
venture near Orange.
The N.S.W. squatters are now giving £5O
apiece for diseased rabbits, and turning them out.
One diseased-rabbit-provider has sold over £lOOO
worth in a few months.
The Port Jackson S. S. Co. have changed
the name of that anoient vessel, the Emu, to the
“ BrJghtside.” This is putting the bright side
forward with a vengeance. On grounds of public
policy it is inexpedient to allow the name of a
ship to be changed. Captain Cook’s ship, the
Endeavour, may, for all we know, now be doing
duty somewhere or other as a harbour steamer
under another name.
Dear Bulletin,—ln your last week’s
“ Answers to Correspondents" you have
F. Stephen : We know of no English translation of Karl
Marx’s work. Read Lawrence Gronlund'a ' Co-operative
Commonwealth,’- which will supply you with all the in-
formation you require.
The first idea is a mistake. I have a translation
of Karl Marx's epooh-making work, “ Das Kapi-
tal,” in my bands at present. It is in two
volumes, published by Swan Sonnensohein and
Co., London, and can be ordered of any book-
seller—3ls. 6d.—Francis Adams.
A Parliamentary measure—a full pint.
Barefaced people—actors and priests.
“ Pastoral Enterprise ”—making collec-
tions.
A mane liquor law—the closing of the
Sydney public-houses at 11 o’clock. Yours truly,
J|. Hooligan,
“ Several thousand tons of old horse-shoea
exported from America to China to make gun-
barrels.’’ Sure to kick.
Haynes, M.P., wants to ©all N.S. W.
“ New Holland,” on the ground that it is ruled by
the ghost of Dutch William.
Over a thousand million of eggs annually
Imported by the L cited Kingdom. No wonder
Her Gracious prefers privacy to publicity.
The Cooktown (Q.) Independent has got
the war-scare bad. It states that “ Russia baa
massed 250,000 infantry, 25,000 cavalry, and BGO
guns cn the Australian frontier.”
The S. M. Herald sajs it is known that
the Queen is going to make a Jubilee present to
the nation. Another Prince Consort, perhaps j
or may be “ nation” is a misprint for Nation.
From a Sydney religious paper:—“Mr.
Walker delivered an address on temperance, and
also made an experiment with beer, which, on the
whole, proved very satisfactory.” Of such are
the Kingdom of Heaven.
Auckland (N.Z.) is close up on the hand
waggon of civilisatic n. Her principal streets are
n,ow lighted by electricity and she has 504 sub ;
scribers to her telephone exchange. Her magis-
trates hear 210 debt-cases every Friday.
A large number of Sydney citizens dis-
played on the frontß of their houses and office*
during the recant Centennial illuminations, tho
figures 100. It was marvellous how often tho
wind caused those figures to look like lOU, out
of compliment to—but no matter.
A Taranaki (N. Z ) settler writing to a>
local journal says We have a Col-Command*
ant at a large salary, with all his attendants and
expenses, kept simply to protect our insignificance!
and poverty, in the shape of dishonored bills,,
mortgages, and bad debts, from the Russians.”
How’s this for the high military and naval;
circles ?
A Yictorian up-country newspaper puts
an obituary thus : “ We have again to record the
death of Mr. .” This reminds us of Mr. W.
Pearson, of Kilmany Park, Vie., who. in writing
to the Minister for Lands on a mysterious disease
which had attaoked his cattle, said that they had
“ commenced dying again, and continued doing
so fer about a fortnight." These two statements'
are worthy of Tipperary.
Sons of Austral
( CENTENARY DAY, JANUARY 26TH , 1888.)
Sons of Austral I band together,
On this day.
You have lain too long in dreamland,
Watchers say—
Grasp your hands in friendship's union,
While you may.
There's a strange blight o'er our land,
There’s the work of under-hand,
There’s a selling of our hopes,
There’s a working of the ropes,
There's our birthright disappearing, while we in
our stupor stay;
Sons of Austral! band together,
On this day.
Sons of Austral! pull together,
It will pay,
While you’ve light and sun shines o’er you,
Make your hay.
If you do not —will you miss it ?
Others may —
There’s a race to follow you,
There's an asking for their due,
There’s a cursing loud and deep
Of jou, in your grave asleep ;
There’s a long and heavy reckoning that your
sons may have to pay,
If you shrink from what’s your duty.
On the day.
Sons of Austral! do not linger,
“ Rise,” I say ;
Shake off drivelling idiots’ burdens,
While you may;
They will sell you as they’re smiling
Light and gay.
Fostered jealousies apart
Keep you, brothers of one heart;
When by enemies divided,
Weakened, you are scoffed, derided ;
There’s a scheme that you shall prop
Other realms about to drop ;
That your shoulders shall be rounded
With the weight of wrecks unbounded;
Will you not “ be up and doing”
Ere there’s time for more than ruelng ?
Or will your sons’ reproachful voices find you in
your home of clay 1
Sons of Austral ! band together
Don’t delay.
Melbourne.
HENRY J. THOMPSON.
How She Came There.
(Nunquam’s Theory of Female Evolution.)
There came to the making of woman,
On an April morning bright,
When shower and shine were intermixed,
A sly, malicious sprite.
With radiance of the sunbeam,
With flokleness of the wind,
With treachery from the ocean waves,
He fashioned a female mind.
He moulded her fledi of rose and oream,
Of jewels he formed her eyes,
And coloured them fair with living blue,
Filched from the Southern skies.
He gave her the kitten’s joy in play,
And the cat’s revengeful claws,
And the peacock's pride in vain display,
To make her love applause.
Then he whispered, “ No worse I’ll make her,
For fear, by some mad caprice,
She tempts me in wrath to break her,
My tricksy masterpiece f ’
And again he said, and winked his eye,
‘ ‘ No fairer 111 form this maid,
Lsst, caught by my own devioeejsly,
I learn to love the jade.”
So he gave her some silk to rustle,
A wobble and mince, for style,
A number eleven bustle,
And a patent, self actirg smile,
With a bonnet, a muff, and a tippet neat,
A satchel, sun-shade, and fan ;
Then dropped her into the world, complete
To make things lively for Man.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
TaBATA« KOVAL— " Mikado --D- 14.
fi-jrTBRioN Theatbb.—“ Forty Thieves" „
Hkb Majesty's Thkatbk.—“ la The Ranks"--- „
alhambba Music Hall—Saored Oonoert .......... ,
Alhambba Music Hall— Minstrelsy ................ ■■
Men don’t believe in a devil now as their fathers
us d to do,
They’ve forced the door of the broadest creed to
let the monarch through.
They say the devil Is gone at last, and perhaps it
may be true;
But who the devil is doing the work the devil
used to do t
*# # #
“ Faust ” is in possession of the stage at
Sydney Gaiety, and MepMstopheles is in posses-
sion of Faust, and spreads his tail over the habit-
able globe. A lot of new and beautiful scenery
has been painted and upholstered for the occasion,
and a well-trained choius adds greatly to the at-
tractiveness of the show. Mr. Dampler, with
carnage in his eye, plays the part of Mephis-
topheles, and, from the moment of bis first ap-
pearance, when he comes in chewing thunder and
presents his fiendish card to the doddering
Faustus, to the closing scene, he is an unalloyed
success. He is calm and dignified in every
action, and even in his most malignant moments
ia all that a gentlemanly devil ought to be.
Faustus, the old philosopher, is played by Mr.
Baker, an d his successor, Faust, the dude who is
born again only to be dropped howling into Ge-
henna, by Mr. Boothman. We have, on more than
one occasion, been called upon to haul the great hogs-
head of charity over the first-named gentleman,
but as Faustus he requires no such consideration.
Mr, Boothman is also very good in spots, but be
suffers somewhat by comparison with Mephisto-
pheles, and he hardly looks miserable enough in
the last act while going down with incandescent
coat-tails, to spend a hot Forevermore. Most
men would wear an aspect of considerate annoy-
ance under such circumstances, and if Mr. Booth-
man could contrive to put more smothered ferocity
into his visage, and would look more like a rise
in the price of gas mixed with pre-eminence in
grief and a desire to attack a full-grown lion with
a hoe, he would give considerably more satisfac-
tion to the boys who gnaw green apples in
the pit. Miss Dam pier’s Margaret is nearly
perfect, and her acting in the psison scene
made one lady we’p in the circle, to the serious
injury of a valuable complexion which was
stronger on one side than the otter. Miss Rose
Dampler perpetrates a pretty solo with success;
Mr. Holloway, as Brander, is shot after he has
done some singing, whereas he ought to be shot
before; Mr. Leston does some good comedy as
Siebel, and Miss Julia Merton achieves a glaring
victory as an old nurse of the description of Gamp
let loose. The scenery and mechanical accessories
in “ Faust" are beyond praise, and unless the per-
verted taste of a Sydney audience can’t be satisfied
without Mephistopheles dancing a break-down
and wearing a tail, the drama ought to have a
long run,
## # #
The resurrection of the“ Mikado” at Sydney
Royal promises to he a profitable speculation for
somebody. During the loßg career of the. poten-
tate who wants to make the punishment fit the
crime, he has torn up human probability by the
roots all over the known world, and in every land
where the bird of freedom roosts upon the tree of
life he is known and respected. But still we re-
gret to say that the “ Mikado " at the Royal is
not quite what he was twelve months ago. The
new Yum-Yum, Miss Leonora Braham, is beauti-
ful enough, and sings sweetly, and looks all that
the Lord High Executioner could ask in the way
of a bride, but she puts a painful waddle into her
little feet when engaged in locomotion, and if her
stride is purely Japanese then our washerwoman
comes from the land of the rising sun. When she
stands still her acting is admirable, and she looks
young and picturesque, but when she trots round
about with the other two little maids from school
she has the Btalk of an ancient prophet with the
gout. Maggie Moore, too —with all reverence be
it spoken—has grown somewhat considerable in
dimensions, and is not so noble-looking a ruin as
Alice Barnett. Her voice is as sweet as ever, and
her acting almost without a flaw, but somehow
the part of Katisha has become associated with
the towering female who used to gaze down scorn-
fully from her tremendous altitude, and who
looked, even in her calmest moments, as if she
could tread all the geography out of Asia and
pound Japan flat with her feet. Any unplea? ant
remarks which we have ever made re-
garding Miss Colborne-Baber, however, are
hereby withdrawn, that lady’s impersonation of
Pitti-Sing being splendid throughout. Mr.
Edwin Kelly is a fine Mikado, and his noble-
linking potentate—in the eloquent words of the
advt. —supplies a long-felt want, and
Mr. Howard Vernon seldom gets Icbs than two
encores for his song, “ I’ve got ’em on the list."
The tailor and tame executioner is probably the
best character in the cast, and without him the
“Mikado” would be almost as void as a son of
Jacob without the awful no3e which the heirs of
that ancient patriarch have carried through the
rolling centuries of history. Mr. Woodfleld plays
Pooh-Bah with his old vigour, and Mr. Duncan
Young drives his chariot over the mangled corpse
of criticism as the minstrel, Nanki-Poo. As we
write, the “Mikado" has only been in Sydney
two days, and already the small sons cf a gun
who sit in the gutters and sell newspapers and
matches, have begun to fake up strange, weird
versions of Ko-Ko’s little list, and girls with baDg
tails hanging down their sketchy-looking backs
have commenced to whop the time-payment piano
and sing that they have been “ Taken from the
County Jail.” One little female who lives next
door to us did this last night for four hours
straight ahead.
## # #
It doesn’t pay to be an ordinary vulgar
thief now-a-days. There was a time, long cen-
turies ago, when thieves wore gold and gems and
had slathe s of property and lived in terriflo style
until they fell into the hands of the ancient police,
and then they were generally boiled, or else tied
up in a bag with seven oats and a snake, and a
quart of assorted scorpions and spiders, and a
pint of cockroaches, and a few rats, and a jug of
ants, and the whole lot was kerosened and set on
fire and then dropped into a river, but unhappily
that romantic era has fled. The thief of the pre-
sent day, unless he happens to be a politician, is a
miserable, rusty individual with a mouldy hat,
who hangs for hours round a baok-door in a baok
street, and is finally rewarded by the chance of
capturing the scrag end of a ham and bolting
three miles with it under a blazing sun. The
“ Forty Thieves,” at Sydney Criterion, however,
belong to the old species, the kind that used to
blow a trumpet while they were lifting the petty
cash, and who, when they had been and gone and
done it, would depart leisurely on horseback with
a thousand menials behind them carrying a ton of
diamonds to their secluded haunt in the forest.
They were an assortment of the maddest of
Arabian dudes, and when they weren’t embez-
zling or splitting a widow down the baok and
hanging the two halves of her up to dry, they
spent their time in singing comic soDgs which
weren’t invented till a thousand years
further on in the vasty subsequent, and in
dancing with the police and authorities and hold-
ing orgies which turned Arabia upside down, and
covered the silent desert with empty bottles.
They enjoyed life while it lasted amid a wilder-
ness of lovely scenery, and sang sweet melodies,
and made love to pretty girls, and chopped up
passers-by into small hash, and never went to
church or gave a cent to an orphan, and finally
they were scalded to an untimely end by a bounc
ing slavey of the ancient time. They make a
go gaous burlesque, but they were sadly deficient
in moral principle when they were alive, and we
have our doubts as to where they have gone to.
Mr. Robert B cough, who, we are glad to note,
seems to be quite recovered from his long illness,
brings down the premises nightly a 9 Ali Baba.
Miss Fanny Robina, attired like Solomon in all
his glory as he appeared before he fell into the
hypochondriac stage of his existence, represents
All’s son Ganem, a young man of loose and flsby
habits, and trills like a nightingale, or some other
bird that we don’t know the name of, and Mr.
Royce plays Hassarao, the robber chief. Owing
to the heat we can’t say any more just now. No
one can do justice to a subject when he Is perspir-
ing as we are.
#* # #
We fell violently into Sydney Academy
of Music on Monday night and stayed there as
long as we could. The nigger has long since
palled upon oar weary soul, and the day is not far
off when we will abjure his coal-coloured coun-
tenance and all his works, but for the present we
are doing our best to hold up. The accession of
Mr. W. B, Warner has made the Federals a good
deal more amusing than they have been for some
time past, and Horace Bent and Sam Keenan have
fixed up two of those peculiar farces in which one
nigger jumps on another’s hat, and the rest of the
action consists in a small coloured man putting
"THINGS WE SEE WHEN
[?] COME OUT W.THO[?]OUR
[?]UN."
his foot In the eye of one twice his own size.
Poor Amery’s departure has left a blank in the
Academy combination, and Charles Fanning is a
woeful substitute for the Alf. Lawton of old, but
otherwise the company is about as good
as a minstrel show can be in this world. Perhaps
they will do better in the next, but we have our
suspicions on this point.
## # *
Messrs. Meats and Donovan met at the
Bondi Aquarium, on Saturday, for “ a mounted
sword contest,” and hacked at each other with
sharp pointed weapons till Meats was cut open in
several places, and was in imminent danger of
becoming dead meat. There was little solence in
the show, but the men tore round on a pair of
terrified horses and hit out at each other’s legs
until gore flowed in several directions, and at last
a scared referee suggested to a demented police-
man that he had better haul the blood-
thirsty pair apart, if he didn’t want
somebody to be killed. He hauled them
apart accordingly, and the much-damaged
Meats was removed to the hospital, while the
crowd hissed and hooted Donovan, and mani-
fested a desire to go for him. It is not yet known
whether any more shows of the kind will be per-
mitted in Sydney, but, anyhow, we would advise
Mr. Donovan and Mr. Meats to give up this sir
of thing. In a country where people are liable
to be hanged for 22 different sins mounted sword
contests are too risky.
** * #
George Rlgnold still tows the same vener-
able pageant along at Her Majesty’s (Sydney.)
## # #
Essie Jenyns, the sole support of a sick
company, has made her first Shakespearean at
tempt in Melbourne, opening proceedings as
Juliet at the Bijou. Immediately upon her re-
turn from a certain historic trip to Europe she
played at the local Royal, and at that time vivid
memories of Mary Anderson, Ellen Terry, and
Misa Eastlake were entangled in her fair young
brain. Since then Essie has arranged her dis-
ordered impressions and become a clever exponent
of the imitative art. There is no lurking sneer
in that last sentence. With a wide tract of water
separating her from the actresses mentioned,
Miss Jenyns is fairly entitled to be considered a
star, whose borrowed brightness is set off by the
gloomiest company that ever talked blank verse
with a twang. Anyway, it is no small
thing to construct a Juliet—original or
otherwise—such as now draws good houses at
the Bijou, and though a London audience might
find Misa Easie’s performance too reminiscent, it
doesn’t follow that she will never start her own
business and achieve some measure of solid fame.
Just in the meantime Juliet might renounce an
Andersonian habit of fetching up notes from the
deepest recesses of her dear little chest, and let-
ting them off at Romeo like dynamite explosions
—also, she might keep her eyes under close re-
straint. Her laboured baritone often kills the
text, and her glances seldom hit the bull’s-eye. In
that ball-room scene the ill-starred Romeo couldn’t
possibly catch his Juliet's eye unless he climbed
up a pole to intercept her line of vision, while
the mashed maid’s exit, with her gaze intently
fixed on nothing at aiJ, is of an epileptic
character. These are the most easily effaoed
blo:s on an effeotive plotora carefully worked up,
and showing a hutdred skilful touches. There is
power and charm (and plenty of it) about this
Juliet, though she overpostures, overgushes, and
overlooks the parties she is supposed to be ad-
dressing. Misß Jenyns has caught every trick
and gesture of the actresses she studied, and re-
produces them with a graceful fidelity which
stamps her as a clever girl. We’ll tell her so—
You have a fetching face,
And hair so brown and glossy,
You’re full of studied grace,
And genius, too—in posse.
So, if you keep your head,
Sweet lady, smart and dressy,
In time it shall be said
That genius is in esse.
Of the rest, silence. If the leading lady can beep
her shaky company on their legs through a legiti-
mate season, she deserves well cf them. There is
every indication that the
task will be accomplished.
*# # #
Melbourne Alexandra
is finding a temporary tenant
in Mr. Harry St. Maur, who
has set up the “Arabian
Nights” at reduced prices.
This is the old, old story of a
loving husband enjoying one
solitary spree and fitting on
the horns cf a dilemma
through three acts, and it
contains enough St. Maur to
withstand the murderous on-
slaught of a company
mostly dug out of the
bowels of the earth. A minor extenuating cir-
cumstance is found in the risky character of a
“ Gutta Percha Girl.” Without giving ocular
demonstration of her flexibility, this coy maiden
smokes a cigarette, liquors up, and makes ceru-
lean remarks in a style which is Improving as im-
pressive. Under happier conditions “ Arabian
Nights ” might draw like “ Private Secretary,"
which was derived from the same source. It is
tastefully mounted at the Alexandra, and should
run for a bit.
## * #
“Dorothy” and Nellie Stewart—equally
charming productions in their respective spheres
keep Melbourne Princess’s in a chronic state of
boom. Now that our young Australian prima
donna (see advt.) has put her lily forefinger upon
the pulse of the people, and found its beat strong
and true, she wears a look of easy contentment.
Any first-night doubts about the improved
quality cf Miss Nellie’s voice have vanished, but,
as an actress, she doesn’t let herself half go in
“ Dorothy." The Royal Pantomime has been
granted another v eek's grace, closing this Friday
instead of last. When the poor Pant, was almost
past praying for, they shook it up a bit,
and brightened its declining days with a further
infusion of Miss Florence Coventry and John
Gourlay. At the Opera House, Professor Kennedy
is “mesmerising” the same old shabby crowd
night after night, before audiences which are
partly cash and the rest In bills, The Age took
up this contemptible show in all seriousness and
published a maudlin notioe, dealing with mes-
meric phenomena, hypnotic trances, quasi cata-
lepsy, &c.
## # #
Phil Beck returns to England in April.
This will cause lamentation and woe among the
love-sick maidens who haven’t seen Philip in his
plain, everyday state. If it will assist them to
bear the blow we would mention that this young
man is over 40 years of age and by no means
divinely beautiiul in front of the footlights. He
looks best under the influence of slow music.
## * #
JenrieLeewas once rehearsing in Mel-
bourne with a well-known stage-manager who ad-
dressed her in a very loud voice. “ You need not
bawl so loudly, Mr. Sc-and-So,” said Jennie,
sweetly, “ we are not making boilers now.”
## * #
But a few short years ago the merest
sentiment uttersd on the stage, having reference
to Royalty, would bring down the house, but now,
no matter how glowing the ‘‘gag," not a
“ hand ’’ is given. In “In the Ranks ” a sentiment
is put into the mouth of Mrs. Buzzard. It is in
the Fourth Act, where she finds her son Joe at
drill in the barrack-yard ; giving him a maternal
hug he exclaims, “ You mustn’t do that as I am
now the Queen’s property.” “Well,” quoth the
old lady, “ she’s a mother herself, and has a
mother’s heart for her son, I suppose.” Uttered
in Her Majesty’s Theatre ! And not a note of
applause t
“ Revenge ” or “ Sentenced to Death ”
has been produced at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide,
and for genuine sensationalism and crying villainy
this drama takes the cake. All the characters
have a bad time of it. There is a rich landlord
who wishes to destroy the happiness of one of his
tenants, a farmer, by endeavouring to run away
with his wife. The farmer objects to this inter-
ference, and there is a row. The villain, for
revenge, accuses the agriculturist of stealing some
bank-notes from him, but through the smartness
of an old gentleman, who is always hard-up
and “requires the price of a pint,” he finds
them in the depths of his own pocket. Then two
children, who are very much alike, get mixed up
considerably, and for a long period their parentage
is in doubt. Then there is a robbery and at-
tempted murder, and an innocent man is sen-
tenced to be strung up, an idea he does not like,
and as the police are either out of court for a
drink or having a sleep the prisoner has little
difficulty in escaping from the dock and hiding in
a churchyard. Here there are a few more fights,
and the thirsty old boy is precluded from having
any more drinks in this world as he gets shot and
dies repenting. There are a lot of other howling
situations which are too numerous to describe.
Mr. Herbert Flemming, Mr, B. N. Jones, Miss
Morris, and some other capable artistes are re-
duced to take part in this dismal drama, which,
however, has been drawing well. The large
audiences which nightly fill Garner’s Theatre
testify to the popular programmes presented by
Tommy Hudson, whose riches must now be untold.
*m * #
A Sydney dramatic critic, writing of W.
J. Holloway’s appearance at the Bijou, Mel-
bourne says, “ Mr. Holloway will appear in his
original character of Romeo.” We always knew
that Plain Bill Holloway was no chicken, but we
never fancied he was so old as that , by at least
ten years.
## # #
The very latest :
11 Well, gentlemen," he said, “ I remember once, I was
fearfully pushed for a ballet-girj. A ballet was down in the
bills, and I mußt have one girl that could dance ; but the
onlyrea dancer in the ehow had sprained her ankle and
couldn't possibly go on. Well, I telegraphed and engaged
one ; she was usually a prince or something in burlesque,
but she said she could do it, and I had to take her. She
came on the stage at rehearsal pretty well got up—nice
tights, good form, everything apparently all right. I was
about to coi gratulate her when I noticed that she wore a
pair of spectacles. ‘ That is ridiculous,’ said X. ‘What? 1
said she. ‘ Those spectacles,' said I: ‘ a ballet girl in spec-
tacles is impossible.' ‘ All right, manager,’ said she. ‘ I’m
ready to throw up this job at any minute. I hope I have
some native refinement and modesty. I have taken eft'
pretty much everything else for the purpose of appearing in
this play, but I am going to draw the line at the spectacles,'
and the fun of it was that instead of the thing destroying
us, it took the place by storm. Nothing was talked about
but my ballet-girl in spectacles. It was a novelty, you see,
and we did grand business night after night.
#* * #
Misa Florence Meyer, of Melbourne,
pianiste and composer, has created a great sensa-
tion in Vienna. Bland Holt declines to out his
hair. A correspondent informs us that in a cer-
tain company playing somewhere in Australia one
cf the leading gentlemen has been doing some-
thing he oughtn’t to, and a circumstance which
he doesn’t expect is likely to transpire in conse-
quence. This item is necessarily rather vague on
account of the libel law. Little Josef Hoffman,
infant phenomenon on the piano, objects to visit
the homes of England’s aristocracy because the-
ladies cut off locks of his hair and tickle him.
The duchesses will have to find some one else to
tickle —but we won’t mention names. George
Leitch, of “Harbour Lights” and “Human
Nature,” is doing a tear round the N.Z,
sounds for the good of his health. We had
a friend once who went round there and was
never heard of any more, and if George comes
across his bones he will piease send them along.
J. R. Greville, the well-known actor, is said to b®
worth £30,000. Ssme day Anarchy will come and
Greville will have to divide up. An English lord
drifted in behind the scenes at a Melbourne?
theatre the other night. He came out again very
suddenly, and told some one who teemed to be
close behind him not to do it again. The
amphibious and much-travelled R. S. Smyth
has turned up from England by the Aorangi
after doing South America. He intends to>
pilot Max O'Rell through Australia shortly.
While Nellie Stewart was in England, a poisonous
insect bit her lily-white hand and disabled her for
some time. Mr. G. R, Ireland, of Bland Holt’s
company, was accidentally stabbed in the face by
Miss Ida Herbert while playing “ Alone in
London "at Newcastle, last Saturday. The Aus-
tralian theat?ical managers lost a great chance
during the Centennial week. Someone ought to
have revived “ The Ranger,” the first play ever
produced in Australia, which was written by a
convict and acted by a convict company nearly a
century ago. Kate Bishop knows so well the
exact effect which the footlights have on her face
that she can make up without a looking-glass.
Melbourne is choke-full of actors just now, and
professionals out of a billet are leaning against
every lamp-post all along Bourke-street.
Melbourne Age has in a late issue an
article headed: “Temperance township require-
ments." More rum, we expect.
We are always reading that Her Pre-
eminence in Grief is “ deeply touched." We are
sorry for the old lady, but it’s in the family. Her
grandpa, George 111., was that way.
Quintin Cumber, described as a quarrel-
some Scotchman, received a fortnight's quod
hominy at Queensoliff (Vic.) last week for as-
saulting a publican. Of course, Q, Cumber agrees
with no man.
The English papers have been busy
chronicling what they call the buffoonery of the
Victorian Parliament. We, in our turn, have ad-
vertised the atrocities the English Homes have
perpetrated in Ireland. They like tragedy, we
prefer comedy.
A small boy at a Melbourne suburban
State school last week assaulted his teacher with
a slate, and broke his finger, because that worthy
caned him for persisting that 1001 b. was a hundred-
weight. Poor youth, he should be forgiven. Doubt-
less his father keeps a wood-yard.
Groom, Speaker of the Queensland As-
sembly, is a small man who wears a frock coat all
the year round, with a bit of shirt-front and a
black cross tie. He has a generally shiny look,
and at moments, as he walks up and down his
own Toowoomba, where he is a power political,
commercial, and social, his lips oan be seen in mur-
murous movement. He is understood to be say-
irg, “God bless youl” or perhaps he is only
repeating the prayer he “ opens proceedings " in
the House with.
The present Mayor of Sydney is son of
Dr. Harris, who formerly owned the whole of
Ultimo and built the old house in Harris-street,
now occupied by one of his sons. There is a little
history attached to this property. The doctor, at
his death, bequeathed it jointly to both his sons,
John and George, but, unfortunately for himself,
through an oversight George was a witness to the
will, and, of course, by law could not inherit. He
does not lose by i\ however, as his brother, the
Mayor, honorably shared the estate with him.
“ The Sydney Ministers’ Union” [Trades
Union.—-Ed. B ] “held their monthly meeting to-
day. The fearful extent to which Sabbath dese-
cration prevails in Sydney was brought under the
Union’s notice, and attention was drawn to the
fact that the evil was spreading in many ways,
and that the Day of Rest was fast slipping away.”
Precis“ly so In Sydney, the tram-cars and omni-
buses and ferry-boats run on Sunday to carry
people to church, and shops keep open to sell
tram-tickets to alleged Chdstians on their way to
the sanctuary, and then sinners take advantage of
the facilities thus offered to the elect and dese-
crate the Sawbath by using these same trams to
go to see a shark-fight at a carnal aquarium. It
Is sad—very sad.


PEPPER
AND
SAIT
According to the Sydney papers, Messrs.
Burke and Foley, pugilists, &0., are again going
to welt each other's frontispiece for £5OO or
£lOOO a-side. This time, it is understood, the two
men are both roused to a state of awful ferocity,
and each will smash up his enemy to the last gasp.
This sort of thing, of course, is good sport for the
quarrelsome public, but we respectfully submit
that it is very rough on two ladies whose
feelings ought to be respected. Only a few weeks
ago, Mr. Foley, who is a thing of beauty and a
joy for evermore, bestowed his classic figure upon
a very charming g’rl at the hymeneal altar, and
with all his worldly goods he did her endow.
Larry is a noble and well-respected youth, and
Mrs. F. is justly proud of him, and now she learns
that he is going to expose his speaking counten-
ance to be smote by a total stranger, and if the
stranger only smites hard enough the beauty
which won her heart will be gone for ever. She
did nob marry a ramshackle object with a broken
nose and an eye driven out of the perpendicular,
and a mouth hauled round until ib interfered
with his ears, but her good-looking husband Is
voluntarily going out to get himself converted
into such, and it is rough. Mr. Burke, too, is a
gentleman of noble coun-
tenance, and he has a
wife and family depen-
dent upon him. No doubt,
Mrs. Burke, as she well
may be, is proud of his
lordly aspect, and yet,
quite irrespective of her
feelings,, he intends to
expose that aspect to be
pounded by Mr. Foley'
and is voluntarily going
out to get his ear split by
that gentleman’s wind-
mill fists. Out of regard
for two amiable ladies,
who are deeply concerned
in the result, this sort
of thing should not tran-
spire. There could he no
possible objection to the
frenzied combatants en-
tering into an arrange-
ment to gas, and blow,
and snort for £5OO aside,
bub we entreat them not
to hit each other. There
isn’t any reason why they
should. The public are’nb
used to it, anyhow, and
all they want is that
Mr. Foley and Mr.
Burke should put their
fathomless animosity into
the papers, and then take
the stakes. At present
Mr. Bennett, of the
Evening News, is hold-
ing the coin, but it doesn’t
signify anything to him
whether the men fight or
not. Possibly, however,
it was because Alfred
was acting as bottlehol-
der to this funeral that the local Herald and Tele-
graph kept aloof from his recent Centenary
Press banquet. Perhaps they thought he was
sinking the dignity of the Press. Anyhow, we
trust these few remarks will be taken in good
part by all concerned. We appeal to Mr. Foley
and Mr. Burke to cork up their rage for the sake
of their wives and children and not to go out and
get thumped in a vital part. At the same time,
we trust that they won’t give vent to evil passions
and come down and tear round this office. We
don’t mean any harm in saying this ; we can’t
fight ourselves worth a cent, and ib is unfair to
hit a man when he isn’t standing up.
• • *
The “ Guide.” recently published by the
Orient Steamship Company, is not distinctly an
attempt to straddle the higher walks of literature,
nor does the Company venture upon airy flights
of verse, but the book contains a few ideas that
are worth nothing, all the same, Here is ore
Within that spacious haven, the most valuable gift of
nature to the Australian Continent, the British enaign wa3
hoisted in Sydney Oove, the spot which is now the centre of
the busiest iife of the Continent, hereafter probably to be the
object of associations as sacred to the future Australian nation
as the Plymouth Rock is to the descendants of the passengers
by the Mayflower.
There is 10,000 horse-power cheek in that one
little paragraph. Nothing smaller than an inflated
steamship company would have ventured to com-
pare the miserable convicts who were brought
ashore to live in chains in an earthly hell, and the
murderous gaolers who were 10 times worse than
they, with the Pilgrim Fathers of whom Mrs.
Hemans wrote :
Amid the storm they sang,
And the stars heard, and the sea,
And the solemn aisles of the dim wood rang
To the anthera3 of the free.
There was too much snuffle and too many Scripture
quotations among that steeple-hatted crowd of
pilgrims, but still they never, even in their sad-
dest moments, dreamt that a steamship company
would one day arise and write a book in which
they were compared to the human refuse who
sold stolen rum and built a gallows on every hill
with the proceeds, The comparison is an insult
to the melancholy dead, and we ask the Orient
Company to act as becomes a white corporation
and take that paragraph back.
• * •
The blessed institution of the Centenary
has come to an end at last, and the bird of victory
has gone back to his perch. The show ended with
a great display of fireworks, and the men who
had been drunk for a week were all shaken up by
the fiery snakes in the air, and went home under
the impression that they had seen Satan tearing
through the atmosphere with rockets in his tail,
For our own part we kept strictly sober, but still
we hailed a hearse io William-street, Sydney, on
that firework night, and, thinking it was a 'bus.
requested the vehicle to drive us to our residence.
We have wondered a good deal since then as to the
significance of the omen. Next to the fireworks the
chief Centennial nuisance was the N.S W, flag,
with its five-starred cross, which was flying every-
where. When the Deity fixed up the Southern
Cross He only put in four stars that can be seen by
the naked eye, but Parkes and Co. perceived the
mistake and fixed in their flag an extra luminary.
Some day, probably, when Providence has been
out late, ib will note the omission and set the Con-
stellation right. If it hasn’t sense enough to do
this there will be no other resource than to alter
the flag. We trust, however, that this extreme
measure won’t become necessary, but, if it should
we move that three stars and a battle-axe in the
centre would be a good, reliable symbol which no
one could object to, and the Soudan motto,
“ Whisky and Blood," might be attached to ex-
plain the position. Or else we might have the
three stars with the old favourite war-cry of
“Advance Australia," and a crab attached to
show which way Australia was advancing. We
present these ideas fively to our bleeding country,
and ask for no reward except the gratitude of a
nation which is just recovering from the jim-jams.
An officer of the Imperial Army who
fought through the New Zealand war and held the
rank of major is blacking boots In Sydney.
William Wood, an oddity residing at the
Thames, N.Z., years ago predicted the end of all
things in 1881, and published a monthly magazine
setting forth his peculiar views on religious mat-
ters. When 1881 had run its course without any
sign of the Apocalypse, Wood made no attempt
to explain away the failure of his prophecy, bub
with wonderful magnanimity gave the world 10
years longer. Three years longer, sinners, d’ye
hear ?
John R. Simpson, a prominent New Zea-
land journalist, has the reputation of being a
dreadful smart man. While on a visit to Manu-
tehi recently he backed himself to do anything
that any man in the township could do. A series
of competitions was started and lasted from
early morn till dewy eve. In that period he
knocked out the d mpion local “ scrapper,” put
a link in a plough hain more neatly and more ra-
pidly than the blacksmith, took a colt over a sft.
oin. gate, guessed nearest to the weight of an
8001 b. bullock, arc. knsw as many knots and splices
as the village Nestor, who is a derelict whaler.
R. E, O’Connor, M. A , barrister-at-law,
recently appointed to the N.S.w. Upper House, is
the son of the late Richard O’Connor, for many years
Clerk of N.S.W, Parliaments, who, in turn, was a
son of General (French) Arthur O'Connor, the
Irish patriot, and his wife, a daughter of the
famous Marshal Soult, Arthur O'Connor was
a man who struggled to free his country from ths
yolk of England and suffered for it, hav
lug undergone four years’ imprisonment in
different gaols in England and Ireland, sub-
sequently enduring everlasting banishment.
Richard O’Connor was a sturdy man,
proud as Lucifer, and independent as he was
prou'd. One of his two sons possesses a flute which
belonged to him in days gone by, and upon which
he played excellently. In course of time an acci-
dent befel the flute, which was taken to Parkes’
toyshop to be repaired. Time flew again, and
Parkes, becoming a legislator, had occasion to
interview Richard, and in his grandiloquent,
patronising way said very siowly and impres-
sively, “ Ah—Mr. O'Connor—l—think we have-
met —before.” O'Connor looked at him very
firmly, adjusted bis glasses to a nicety, andrepHed
in a sharp, crisp manner, “Now, Mr. Parkes, I
don’t want any damned nonsense. Yes, I remem-
ber you. You mendod my flute—what is it you
want ?"
In the Legislative Council of N.S.W.
there are 16 lawyers, three doctors, and one
blacksmith. In the Assembly there are 16
lawyers, three doctors, and one undertaker. The
senior member of the Counoil is William Byrnes,
of Parramatta, who was appointed June 21, 1861.
He was a cloth-weaver, but foreign trade ruined
the industry, and his factory building is now the
local poorhouse. In the Assembly, Sir Enry is
said to be the senior member, but “Cooky”
Burns has the longest continuous reoord. Cocky
is a land-speoulatur, and has a big interest in a
big estate at North Shore upon which the unem-
ployed have been engaged in opening up some
roads at the expense of the State.
CENTENNIAL THOUGHTS.
Young Thomson, a journalist, from the
baek-blooks, has been patriotically celebrating the
Centenary of his country for two days and nights.
These are his thoughts on the third night:—
Whose head is this I have on ?
Ib must be another fellow’s —my own is net half
as big.
I suppose they played this trick on me while I
was aßleep. They might as well, while they
were about it, have put the head on the right way.
I shall never ba able to look anyone in the face,
with the back of my head turned in front.
Hal Hal Happy thought !
I’ll put my clothes on the sama way and button
my coat at my back.
Hum ! It will be infernally awkward at first.
How abonb my arms ?
I suppose I’ll have to get them disjointed and
turned round, too.
Beastly bore I
I wish I had never gene out with that crowd
the last twe nights.
I wonder what that green cow in the corner
means by wearing a poke-bonnet and a red veil.
How the mischief did she get in here, anyhow ?
Must ask the Professor of Natural History
whether this is a common habit of oows or only an
ecoentrioiby.
Ah !So there you are—the Sea Serpent! Ac-
cept the assurance of my most distinguished con-
sideration. Yoop ! Shoo ! Take your eyes
off me.
Hah ! The Count Alvaro, bowing with old
Castilian grace to his opponent, lunged lightly and
George the Third was a corpse,
I wish I had a penoil.
I could write a novel in the best style of Dumaß
now —
Why should a cat
Wear a white hat ?
Why should a cat,
For the matter of that 2
I’ll remember this, and write It all out in the
morning.
Lying in my little bed,
Thus unto myself I said,
Wish I had back my own head,
Not another man’s instead.
Next week I shall bring out a volume of poems at
ten guineas a copy. I would have done so before,
only I was afraid of hurting the feelings of Brun-
ton Stephens and John Farrell—and Parkes. But
genius cannot,.ln hidden all the time. After I
have done this, I Bhall go homeland buy out the
Czar. He ought to sell cheap.
1 What are those two devils in yellow
plug-hats doing at the bottom of the bed ? You
needn’t glare at me like that, gentlemen.
You’ve called a good deal too soon. Drop in
about the next Centenary, and I may be able to
attend to you.
Ri !Stop dragging at my feet, or I’ll kick your
head in.
John Jenkins was a fisher bold,
He fished upon the sea,
He caught ten snakes on the weather side,
And nine upon the lee.
Must write that out, too, in the morning.
Reminds me of the Ballad of Sir Patrick Spans.
Could go on writing poetry like that all night.
Must be in splendid vein,
Wish I had back my own head, though. Don't
properly understand the working of this one.
Think I'll go out and find the fellow that owns it
and get mine back.
If he refuses, I’ll punch it into a jelly for him.
Weep not for me when I am gone.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Information wanted. Who’s Lord Fltz-
roy ?
Jawbone Neild has a brother in the
Churoh,
Murderer Lynch’s skull is in Sydney
mu»em
Lord Carington has three daughters. No
heir to the title yet.
The Princess of Wales doses herself freely
with bromide of potassium.
Tbadeus O’Kane, having no libels on hand
just now, thinks of standing for Parliament.
The p ivate secretary bo Governor Caring-
ton gets JB4OO a year, while his clerk gets £llO.
The legal army of N.S.W. numbers eight
Queen’s Counsel, 96 junior barristers and 563
attornies,
Charley Lett, the Beautiful, once of
Sydney, is the actual editor of a London financial
paper called The Bulletin.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, the newly-elected
member for Belfast (Vic.), was a railway engineer
before he went to the Bar.
Up Balmoral way whisky is generally
called Eau de V. out of compliment to but a
dangerous ioke is concealed somewhere in this
paragraph.
The champion liar of Australia, who used
to live in Sydney, where his claim to the title was
never questioned, is now in full blast in North
Queensland.
Amongst the guests at the Sydney Cen
tennial “Press” banquet were a saddler from a
Western town and a gingerbeer-maker from a
Southern city.
James Tyson, who is worth six millions or
so, takes the cake for shabby clothes from all
Queensland. They say that he is the Dives who
looks like Lazarus.
When Sir George Grey laughs, two re-
markable wrinkles appear on the bridge of his
nose. These, however, are only external signs
of inward wrinkles.
Lord Carington dropped into Scripture
over the regatta on the Orizaba. “ Champagne
Charlie ” quoting from the Psalms is a sight to
mBke the gods boo-hoo.
Mark Cohen, editor of the Dunedin
Evening Stab, and cne of New Zealand’s ablest
and most popular journalists, commenced life as a
run-boy on the paper he now edits.
A kind friend of the editor of the S.M.
Herald remarked to him the other day that he
was a Radical by himself, a Conservative at
home, and a rank Tory at his office.
Sir Robert Ross’ funeral is to be the last
“ state ” funeral in Holy Adelaide, at least so the
local Premier says. But what will the next
Premier say 1 That’s the question.
Lord Augustus Loftus says that the obli-
gation of feeding “ self-styled distinguished visi-
tors”—a swarm of gorgeous loafers from England
— drove him to the Bankruptcy Court.
A member of Hiscock’s burnt-cork crowd
is son of a baronet, still living, who has been
Lord Mayor of Dublin, and is a fashionable doctor
in one of the “swagger ’’ parts of the Hibernian
capital.
Mortimer Franklyn, Esq., writes to the
Pall Mall Gazette about the “ Federation of
the Australian colonies.” Will Mortimer please
write to Mr. Stead about his (Mortimer’s) Federa-
tion with the Hentys ? That is the question.
That is a queer story of the Melbourne
Civil Service official who lately offered to do
another man’s work and his own too, with the re-
sult that, in the long run, he lost both billets.
New South Wales is honoured with the
presence of one Privy Councillor, three Baronets,
one K.C.B , two G.C.M G s, nine K.C.M.GS., four
Knights Bachelor, four C.B.s, and six C.M.G.s*
Sir Henry Parkes says he never reads
The Bulletin. Bub it is an open secret that Miss
Parkes collects ard preserves every article and
picture which has any connection with her father.
H. Battenberg appeared at the christen-
ing of his kid in Highland costume ! Great
Scott ! a German Scotchman. The London
society papers now call Beatrice’s husband “ Mac-
Battenberg.”
Melbourne Argus speaks of Mr. Robert
Brough as brother to Lionel of that ilk, yet our
Robert is nephew to Lionel Brough. However,
we’d just as soon have an uncle as a brother.
Sometimes sooner.
The invoice-clerk who figured so conspi-
cuously on the celebrated occasion, years ago,
when the Customs officers laid siege to Steven-
son and Co.’s warehouse in Flinders-lane, Mel-
bourne, has joined the Jesuit order.
George Adams, jouri alist, of Wellington,
who fell over a cliff there the other day and broke
his back, must have been a rara avis amongst
pressmen seeirg he left a couple of thou’ behind
him. He willed it to a lady friend.
Who was the ignorant miserable on the
S.M. Herald who had never heard of the great
E. G. Fitzgibbon, the Town Clerk, Recorder, and
Mikado of Melbourne, ard gave his name in the
Centennial reports as “ Fitzgerald " ?
At the Sydney Citizens’ Centennial ban-
quet, Mr. G. R. Dibbs explained to the speech-
ridden assembly that he was “ suffering from »
complaint which rendered thinking impossible.' 1
G. R.’s enemies say his trouble is chronic.
Thera's no “loyalist” like the Australian
“loyalist” in the dsar old mother country. C. J-
Buckland, of Sidney, was one of the principal
Trafalgar- square witnesses, and Rawson, of
Maokay (Q ), figured as a special constable.
Copy of a letter written by one of the
J’s.P. recently created by the present N.S.W. Go-
vernment
Ootobur, 1887.
deer sur,— plees to forwarde me the poelio aks I lentt you
laste munth for us .Pas want em next corte day.
Thomas Holt, who draws an immense
revenue from real property In N.S.W., fed five
hundred and twenty poor people in London on bis
76 bh birthday. Gcd bless him 1 Of course there
are no poor in N.S.W., and t here is no property-
tax.
When George M‘Cullagh Reed was con.
nented with the Auckland (N.Z ) Bell, he deter-
mined one day to have his hair out. Whilst
undergoing the toiture he found Unit with the
scissors, and desired the barber to send a boy a®
once to Wyndham-street for his. “ Why, sir,
asked the operator, with professional concern,


Everybody *ay»—and what everybody say* mußt be true—
that Pemeir* Snow-white Patent Roller Flour ii the
belt In the market.*
,. ftre yon, too, a barber?” “No such luck,
groaned G.M., “ I'm an editor.'
Webber, the High Church Brisbane
,'Jr has gone “home” for a spell. There is
Bis V P ’ f a round robin following him from his
Mothers in Christ, suggesting that the Queens-
S climate does not agree with his lord-
Bb qil Bobert Stout, ex-Premier of N.Z.,
a formerly a schoolmaster. He has been
* to carry on a conversation while at the
k r?ime he was penning an article for his paper,
SScS! and recking the baby's cradle with his
fC °Charles Garland, late M P. for Carcoar in
tj S W Assembly, is a New Zealander, and
hro’uaht up as a draper. His old school-
W at-flr C A Robertson, who died suddenly in
“z! the other day, used to predict great things
° f Frank Duffy, the barrister, son of Sir
Carles Gavan, has only one birthday in four
Ch “ as he vented his maiden squall on the 29fch
y e fffibruary. What a terrible thing it must be,
Btomachleally, to have to keep four birthdays at
on m om Holt, millionaire, landowner, phil-
anthropist, and absentee, has subscribed by cable
£2OO to the Parkes’ Tribute. Thomas, by the way,
a bis interest in the land required for the
Jew street opposite the General Post Office,
Sydney.
The “Year Book of N.S.W.” dubs Lord
Sherbrooke a colonist. Yes, old Bob Lowe does
The colony the honour of owning a lob of valuable
nrnnerty in Sydney, but the rents are very care-
Sy remitted to his lordship, and N.S.W. has no
absentee-tax.
Tom Bracken once got off a good quip
about the loquacious Fish, M.H.R. The latter
worthy had been speaking volubly for three
hours Tom came into the Press gallery and
said, “ Well, this is characteristic of Fish, A
whale must spout.
It comes a little late, but the “ Vaga-
bond” believes he remarked, when he passed
horn the Argus to the Age, that “ it was better
to reign in hell than serve in heaven." Anyhow,
since he's got to know David Syme better, he s
possibly not quite so sure.
Brunton Stephens is fond of whiling away
his leisure moments with the solution of
algebraical equations. He appreciates the poetry
of mathematics, and it is a keen regret to him
that he has never been able to prosecute his
studies into the higher branches.
Sir Arthur Palmer met a son of hia the
other day at the railway station, and publicly
embraced and kissed him. The old man retains
all the affectionate ways which endeared him to
shearers and bullocks when he “bossed” a shed
or drove a team in the dead years.
Two lately-liberated patrons of an Aus-
tralian gaol, taking a lounge down the main
street of the local metropolis, met the Speaker of
the locil Parliament. Said one to the other :
« gin w ith civility and attention to business, you
or me’may yet open presceedins in the 'Ouse with
prayer.”
Viscount Valletort, and Lieutenant-Colonel
the Hon. Charles Edgecumbe are en voyage for
Australia. This item doesn’t thrill us worth a
cent. We’ve become so accustomed to earls and
dnke3 that anything under thore ranks we view
with cold suspicion. We even fix the glare of dis-
trust on the dukes, too.
John M‘Elhone lives at Pott’s Point !
r.nfq of people in Australia may ask, “ Who is
Jbhn M’Elfcone ?” but the man who writes this
knew befere he arrived in Sydney. Once while
on the banks of the Nicholson River, in Far
Northern Queensland, he heard M'Elhone making
a speech in the Legislative Assembly, Sydney.
George M’Callagh Reid, author of the
“Discovery of Noah’s Ark” hoax, has become
editor of the N.Z, Herald. As the Herald is
run on godly lines, George won’t any more be able
5jX about holy things--at least, not much.
Raid used to be a Presbyterian parson, as was
Savid Bruce; who preceded him in the editorship.
“The Vagabond” discusses the N.S.W.
Centenary festivities in a lofty and superior
fashion He complains of mismanagement every-
where and speaks fof Carington's voice as a
“shrill treble.” Baron Bob and Mr. Julian
Thomas it may be remarked, don’t-play ohaneys
in ea“h other's backyards. Julian never spares
Mr. Smith. ,
There’s a certain well-known Australian
Ht-ntfisman who commenced life as a newspaper
eport“ A colleague of his in these long-past
days tells now how the printer used to go about
bawling for Blank’s copy, and it was not, and how
T, PR d to say, “Damn Misbher Blank! he
STdISS °pSts, but he get. dhruuk ou
porther!” , , ~ .
It is not generally known, but it is never-
theless a fact, that the late A. G Jones of Wagga
was a native of Tasmania, and originally intended
ZffLThiiroh. We have often tried to think
what A, G. would have looked like while offi-
Andrew’s in bishop’s robes, but our
usually broke down badly at
every attempt, , . ■ ,
R A R. Sherrin is wnt ng a history ot
N Z which certainly should eclipse Rusden a
effort Sherrin is a newspaper man who received
the sobriquet of “ The Mystery Man from his
iournalistio associates, from a habit he had of
leading you away furtively several blocks and
then giving as a piece of news something that was
as old as Parkes’first insolvency.
Of all the Governors who have ruled
n-s-w. s.i
TamwortfcVgraudßtra to Governor litng. ot the
Hme • Mr. Deas Thompson is grandson
S Bourke, his mother being daughter
“voruor ° and Lord Augustus Lottu. ha.
left us a son in fond remembrance.
Mary Howitt, the Quaker authoress, who,
indti died, was mother of Mr,
of SpsTand, Vic., and sister of
ESS & M Howitt?o P f CollWstreet, Melbourne.
The ffid doctor's secluded residence at the corner
FUnders-lane, Melbourne, on land at the back of
V, ',VwJ former residence, and which was pur-
in the good old early days.
Old Dr Howitt, in swallow-tailed coat broad-
brimmed white hat and glasses, was a familiar
figure in Melbourne 20 years ago.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Abigail was once the hand-maiden of Pro-
tection.
In 1881 there was one lunatic in every
819 persons in N S.W. ; in 1871 one in every 392 ;
in 1881 one in every 304.
Parkes has sold another friend. The cor-
respondence about it will be published shortly—
before the Melbourne Exhibition opens.
In the last Edinburgh Gazette to hand,
everyone of the bankrupts given is a farmer.
Freetrade for ever, and N.S.W. farmers please
copy !
No Australian native spoke at the Sydney
Centennial banquet, and every one of the oratorical
trash from Brummagem, &e., staggered beneath
the weight of his Imperial baubles.
Mr. George Higinbotham, the Victorian
Chief Justice, was invited to the Centennial
banquet, but the Imperial flunkeys took very
good care not to put him on the lisb of speakers.
Premier Griffith’s face is getting quite
thin. So is his Democratic programme. Be has
lost a stone weight in the last two years and will
lose another stone before the elections are over.
“The Vagabond ” writes a biting letter to
the Age on the subject of black labour on the
P. and 0. boats. It is the duty of every patriotic
UNIMPEACHABLE EVIDENCE.
“WE HAVE MOSQUITOES UP COUNTRY AS BIG AS RABBITS."
“OH YES I SAW SOME WIRE-NETTING GOING UP THE OTHER DAY. I SUPPOSE
IT WAS FOR SKERTER-CUKTAINS.”
Australian to support the Orient Company, which I
employs no lascars and no Chinamen.
Out of 11 passengers in one car on the
N S.W. Western line, on a day during the late
Christmas holidays, only four paid fares. Lord
and Lady Carnarvon travelled free by the same
train. No wonder the railways don't pay !
Fletcher, M.L. A., of N.S.W., says that
“ if you were to rake hell with a flne-toothcomb
you would not find such a lot as Papkes’ present
supporters.” If Parkea raked ‘‘ bell ” with a flne-
toothcomb he certainly wouldn’t find a “ h ” In it
London Punch, we notice, is getting ready
to rat on the Tories, and as the political history
of that slavish little print has always been suc-
cessful ratting before the rush came, It’s another
fair sign that the Salisbury bushranger policy is a
failure.
Vanity Fair, the impotent British Tory
“sassiety” rag, talks of Sir Patrick Jennings
coming “ from Victoria,” and calls the colonial
delegates “the representatives of England at the
antipodes.” Some fools tell the everlasting truth
by mistake at times.
The Victorian farmers urge Premier Gil-
lies to lower the freights, and Gillies says he can’t
because it would not pay. But why not tax the land
through which the railways go for the ‘ unearned
increment” value they have got in consequence,
and let the farmers’ freights pay only for carriage,
and not for the interest of the construction of the
railways ? That’s Henry George’s idea.
Cardinal Moran sent round his congratu-
latory Jubilee address from the Australian R.C.
Bishops to Queen Victoria. The Bishop of Sand-
hurst refused to sign it unless a clause were In-
serted praying her Pre-eminence in Grief to grant
Home Rule to Ireland. Moran could not get up
to that quite, so the address went home without
the signature of the old Irish churchman.
At the Bennett banquet Premier Parkes
observed :“lam a very curious kind of man. I
sometimes associate with newsboys, and I try to
get information from them.” Well, this is cer-
tainly a more honourable way of getting informa-
tion than that of planting a shorthand writer
behind the door of a gaol-cell, while another man
stood inside putting leading questions to an
unfortunate luna’ic, who was about to take his
t ial for a capital offence.
Mr. Purves, the criminal bar ister, seeks
the presidentship of the Australian Natives As-
Ecc'ation. The Australian, the Association’s
organ, objects to his candidature on the grounds
of hi i practical inexperience in regard to the
affairs of the Association, his want of the neces-
sary time to devote to its interests, aod the un-
round judgment displayed in his public utter-
ances. What is wanted, adds the Australian,
is not a political president, but a worker.
Attorney-General Wise, in giving notice
of his intention to desert that sinking
ship —the Parkes Government says he is
“thoroughly in sympathy, politica'ly and per-
sonally, with the other members of the Cabinet ’
Are we to infer from this that Mr. Wire sympa-
thises with his colleague, Mr. Minister of Mines
Abigail, in the latter's capacity as director of a
pawnshop which charges 200 per cent, usury to
workmen on readily convertible securities ?
Sir Saul Samuel say a Victoria is herself
learning the evils of her vicious system of Pro-
tection! Meantime Protectionist Victoria has a
surplus, her loan is a boom, her Exhibition will be
another, and she is increasing the salaries of her
public servants all round, beginning with the
Governor, while Freetrade N.S.W. has a deficit,
is choppirg down the salaries of her Civil and
Corporation Servants, and sits, like Patience on a
monument, waiting for the commercial boom to
come up from the South. “Saul, Saul, it is
hard for thee to kick against the pricks 1 ”
M‘llwraith is essentially a hasty politician,
and his administration “ never forgets its friends.’’
He utterly failed to understand the new attitude
of the old Tory paper, the Courier, which Feil-
berg, then its principal leader-writer, was aiming
to bring about—the attitude, namely, of “the
man on the fence.” He said of Feilberg that he
was “ the most dangerous man in the colonv,”
and would fain have dislodged him. Later on
they got to know more of each other, and Foil-
berg would demonstrate to him that the day of
the purely “spoils" administrations was past in
Australia, or that, at any rate, it was the duty of
the Press to make it so. M‘llwraith followed his
dead friend to the grave.
Some years ago an eccentric character named
Larry Bourke, put up for Kilmore (Vic ), intending,
if returned, to represent the constituency in the
Roman Catholic interest. One night, after Larry
had delivered an energetic address to a room full
of the free and enlightened constituents, the ohair-
man. as usual, asked “if ar’ a gintleman had a
quishtion to ax Misther Bourke ?" The great
majcrity of the congregation were Misther
Bourke's strong supporters - brawny, clump-
footed toilers and moilers from the fastnes?es of
Tipperary, and when a bald-headed oppositionist
upended himself, and put a query which cast re-
flections upon the cause, the independent electors
arose with a wild howl, and, taking bim bodily,
spun him out into the mud, where he lay a be-
draggled wreck. When the audience had com-
posed itself the chairman reared once more, and,
with an expression of babyish innooenee, asked :
“ Would any other gintleman like to put a quish-
tion to Misther Bourke !’’ No one liked. Politics
were run on pure Buffalo Bill principles in those
days, and many a burning question was settled
“ wid a bit ov a shtick.”
The S.M. Herald blasphemously pokes
fun at the author of ‘ ‘ stolen moments ” for a little
bit of rhyme worked off when the perpetrator
was a poor friendless lad. (He is now a poor,
friendless old man.) He is charged with the high
crime of attempting to make “morning" rhyme
with “dawning." but that is nothing in a great
poet. “Orion” Horne once wrote a ‘ threnody ”
on the death of G. V. Brooke for the Melbourne
Yoriok Club, and therein made “ law ” rhyme
with “ war.” But then Horne was not a genius,
he was only eccentric.
David Gaunson will be interested to hear tha
Mr. Justice Windeyer has been welcomed home
to Sydney by an assemblage of choice spirits,
which, while it, of course, included Sir Alfred
Stephen and the Sheriff, also comprised nearly
all that large company of grovellers who are ever
ready to welcome and bow down to anything that
happens to be in authority. The chairman, Sir
Alfred aforesaid, proposed the toast of the guest
of the evening, ‘•in warmly laudatory terms,
doing justice to his ability as a criminal
lawyer." Nevertheless, the independent sec-
tion of the community has long ago
arrived at the conclusion that Mr. Justice
Windeyer is utterly unfitted by temperament to
sit on the criminal Bench of any country, how-
ever admirably he may be adapted from a Vande-
monian standpoint for administering a Stephen-
made criminal code which boasts of 22 offences
punishable by death, and 30 or 10 visitable with flog-
ging. Amongst the guests of the evening was the
editor of the S.M. Herald, which cowardly
paper, on 7th January last year, said, in reference
to the Mount Rennie trial, presided over
by Mr. Justice Windeyer, that “reasonable
facilities had not been afforded for de-
fence by the prisoners’’—nine lads, four
of whom were subsequently hanged, and
that “ no case had been heard of in modern times
in which English judges had compelled jurors and
counsel in criminal cases, involving issues of life
and death, to sit all through the night, in spite of
repeated protests and requests for adjournment.”
This having been the opinion of the Herald, it
' is an instructive and remarkable circumstance’ to
find its editor turning up to congratulate Judge
Windeyer on the beauty of his character as a
criminal lawyer. The plain fact of the matter is
that Judge Windeyer’s appointment was a
political iniquity, and his retention, after what
happened at the Mount Rennie trial, is a slur
on British justice in Australia.
Richard Seddon, the burly member for
Kumara, N.Z., and a prospective minister when
Vogel’s party again get the upper hand, did not
learn to read until he was 30. Despite a constant
contempt for the letter “h” he is a powerful-
even an eloquent speaker. One of his favourite
expressions is “ the ’igh ped destal of fame.” One
night a weary scribe in the press gallery at Wei*
liDgton penned the following anent Dick :
“ On mighty Seddon keep your eyes,
Not Seddon-tary—bound to rise.
Prone with old Atkinson to wrestle
And knock him off the ’igh ped-destal.’
Mr. Henry Stuart Russell, in his most
interesting book, “ The Genesis of Queensland ”
(recently published in Sydney by Turner and
Henderson), writes thus about an extempore cure
of pain practised by Dr. Ludwig Leichhardt dur-
ing his Australian exploration :
One night the smell of roasting wokfr me: were they
(Leichhardt's party) so hungry that they couldn’t wait for
breakfast? Where and what can they be cooking? Un-
screwing myself out of my blanket, I followed my nose
which led me to Leichhardt’s small separate room To my
wonder and horror there he was, lying on his back with his
shoulder on the edge of the bed, frizzling over the flime of
a fat-lamp placed under it, i e. , the shoulder, His rheumatic
torture must have been, indeed, intolerable to find relief in
such a cautery. Yet Leichhardt declared it was the first
alleviation of his distress that he had been able to devise
The prescription was an opiate for him, the sight of it robbed
me of further sleep.
There’s a Sydney reporter who has spent
hia half-century life among the dead. He was
the favourite nephew of his uncle, the city
coroner of Dublin 30 years ago, and in childhood’s
happy hour he used to go with his learned rela-
tive to morgues and dead-houses and play with
scalps and pericardiums and things, and cry when
he couldn’t have a mucous membrane for him-
self and a biliary duct to bring home to his little
brother. As years rolled on, he became a news-
paper reporter, and for 30 years or so he has
haunted Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, or Coroner
Shiell, of Sydney, like a happy dream. If you
find this man at any time sad, or sorrowful, or re-
ticent, talk to him cheerfully of the morgue and
the post-mortem, the dark flowing river and the
genial poison, the glittering razor and the rusty
dinner-knife, the convenient rope and the cheer-
ing voioe of the blunderbuss, and you draw him
out till he melts in eloquence and pathos.
Suggestion for Song and Dance.
STRICTLY ORIGINAL.
When the pallid moon was beaming,
And the diamond dew- drops on the grass
All around our feet were gleaming,
Then I met my pretty, blue-eyed lass.
Locks of richest golden yellow
Clustered on her neck eo warm and white,
And my darling kissed her fellow
While the stars above were shining bright.
(Revolve on one toe.)
Oh! golden sil-ver
(Revolve on another toe.)
Diamonds twinkling in the dewy grass ;
( Walk round.)
Can I e’er forget that evening—
Warmest, whitest, winsome, witching lass?
( Breakdown.)
Now the purple shades are falling,
And the birds are singing on the trees ;
I oan hear my loved one calling
’Mid the balmy whispers of the breeze ;
Merrily I go to meet her,
Fold her form so fondly to my breast;
Nothing in the world seems sweeter —
Crimson sun declining in the west.
(Revolve on one toe.)
Oh! golden silver
(Revolve on other toe.)
Little fairy footsteps on the grass.
( Walk round.)
Can I e’er forget that evening,
Ling’ring in the mazy mountain pass?
(Breakdown, and exit.)
Encore Verse.
Love can never more grow older,
Golden jellow looks turn never gray ;
When within my arms I fold her
On that ne'er-to-be-forgotten day ;
Strolling through the fragrant heather,
Moonbeams casting haloes round her head,
Throbbing flDgers twined together-
waiting for the hour when we may wed.
(Revolve as before.)
Oh! golden sil-ver
(Other toe.)
Crimson-purple shadows on the green—
(Walk round.)
Can I e’er forget that evening,
Rosy, romping, royal little queen.
(Breakdown and delirium.)




The Wind-up of the Centenary.
“WE'VE HAD A H-OF A TIME.”


FKECHIEBAN E.
The unparalelled success of this preparation in removing
Freokles, Tan, Sunburn, &c > has already caused a number
of unscrupulous persons to place worthless imitations on the
market. Beware of such, and see the written signature F.
Moore Clements, in red ink across label. Reject all others,
or get itjdirect. post-free for 2s. lOd. m N.B.W. stamps,
from Washington H. Soul and Co., Pitt-stieet, Sydney, or
the inventor F. Moore Clements 141 King-street, New-
town. N.S. W. Please report all cases of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate legal proceedings will be com-
menced by F, M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W.*
Egypt is famed for science, Oornith for statuary. Australia
for climate, and Sydney for its harbour, and the China and
Glass Emporium of Bra¥ Brothers. This latter is a
charming place and its looation is 402 and 404 George-street.
For a few days only everything is offered at a genuine reduc-
tion of 4/- in the pound, for oash, Don't delay a visit.*
Olaremonfc, Dailinghurst Koad, Sydney.—A private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a constant medical super
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff.
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*
J. B. Pack’s and Oo.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacoo i
the most delioious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flarour. Prepared so
that the oombustion is perfect. Burns out to the last
particle with pure white ash. Try it.
Society
"When the other evening a British blue-
j acket was deputed by his comrades to publicly
present a bouquet to Lady Carington at the
Sailors’ Festival in Sydney, he contented himself
with shaking the hand so cordially held out to
him by her Ladyship. When, however, it came
to the turn of a Russian sailor to present a
bouquet on behalf of bis Bhipmates, the Czar’s
minion, not content with merely shaking hands,
gallantly kissed the lady’s glova—which quite
brought down the house, and was so unexpected
a demonstration as to make Lady Carington blush
furiously. At supper time, however, some of the
Russians were so nervons at the presence of the
ladies that they actually lost their appetites at
the table. The British tar, on the contrary, did
not lose his lPtle appetite, and he straightway
proceeded to improve the shining hour by making
f *st and furious love to bis hostesses. He had no
hesitation whatever in demanding of matronly
ladies, per medium of conversation lozenges,
Whether they were “Engaged”; and when, in
feply to a direct qtiery of similar character orally
addressed to a very pretty girl who has only
lately been married, she held up her ringed finger,
Jack laid his hand on his heart, turned up
his eyes and gave a most affecting and genuine
sigh of disappointment. One young lady, the
daughter of a well-known professional man, got
nine distinct and pressing offers from Diamond
blue-jackets to “ see her home.” “I am so glad
they oniy gave the sailors ginger-beer,” she re-
marked ; “If they had had a little ale, I am quite
sure they would have pinched me.”
• # *
Very strained relations exist just now,
We are told, between Admiral Fairfax find Sir
Henry I’arkes, The Admiral is of opinion that
during the Centennial celebrations very scant
courtesy was paid to the Navy. The trouble cul-
minated the other day, when an application was
made by the Admiral that the electric light ap-
pliances ueed at the great Centennial banquet
should be left standing for the Sailors’ Festival.
The request was flatly refused, so the Admiral
vows that he will go to New Zealand waters and
visit Sydney as rarely as poseible. Which episode
forms an admirable procf of the expediency of the
colonies subsidising an Imperial fleet. Mr. Fair-
fax and Mr. Parkes have a personal row, where-
upon Mr. Fairfax steams off to New Zealand
leaving the coast of New South Wales to look
after itself.
* * *
Canon Dalton, who visited Australia as
tutor to the Prince of Wales’ sons, is the fortunate
proprietor of 200 acres o! land on One-tree Hill,
at the head of Fern-tree Gully, about 25 miles east
of Melbourne. The Princes’ bear leader was so
enraptured by the lovely panoramic view to be
seen from tfce eminence named that he deter-
mined, at all hazards, to obtain a grant of a por-
tion df the hill, the whole of which was supposed
to be strictly reserv ed by the Crown for public
purposes. Chiefly through the influence of
royalty and Loch and Co., the Canon is UCw the
possessor of 200 acres of this lovely spot. Which
is, without doubt, one of the greatest political
jobs ever perpetrated in any country.
* * *
AmoDg the guests at Lady Carington’s re-
ception the other day was a lady from the back
regions of New South Wales, where they only
raise a fraotion of a shock headed boy to the
square mile and don’t put on the hereditary frills
common to the effete dwellers in large oities, and,
being a stranger, she was naturally taken in. She
shook hands with Lady Cariogton in an impres-
sive fashion, and said she ’oped she was keeping
’earty, also the old man and the kids, and then
she seemed to feel that an eye was upon her, and
she turned round—to meet the gaze of the
Governor’s gorgeous Tnmmas in livery. There
was a look of reproach in Tummas’s eye, and be-
lieving that she had hurt the feelings of tho
Veneered menial she said humbly, “Oh I I beg
your pardon,” and shook hands cordially with him
also. Then her eye fell on the flunkey’s calves
and she staggered. The aspect of these porten-
tous limbs convinced her that she had been taking
liberties with a Russian Grand Duke, and feebly
saying that she was very sorry she drifted aim-
lessly away and was lost to view. Even Tummas
smiled a fleeting smile, and then his wooden
visage closed up and he looked thoughtfully at
his legs. # m
At laat ! E. J. Smith, Mayor of Adelaide,
has been knighted, Which reminds us that
another Smith, Robert Burdett, of that ilk, of
Sydney, who has long struggled for a knight-
hood, has now one more chance offered him
of securing the coveted bauble. Parkes has ap-
pointed him to represent N.S.W. at Melbourne
Exhibition. Years ago, yet another of the Smith
family—he who was seven times Mayor of Mel-
b urne —went ‘ 1 home ” with an address of wel-
come to Queen Victoria on the marriage of the
Prince of Wales. This colonial Dick Whittington
expected at least a baronetcy He took unto him
a private secretary and a chaplain—Rev Perks,
of Richmond—but came back plain John Thomas,
and was accompanied by a dookey. Imagine St.
John’s Tavern Smith going home with a chaplain!
His portrait was published in the Illustrated
London News, frilled shirt and all, and he might
have been knighted but for a little incident at
Birmingham, over which we draw the horse-cloth
of charitable suppression.
* * *
An aristocratic emblem of England’s great-
ness, or, as the Peat’s Ferry folks called him, a
“real, live lord,” with his lady and suite, paid
the Hawkesbury River a hurried visit on their
way to Goßford. After a preoarious voyage at
low tide, the pilot managed to reach there safely,
having only scraped bottoih once. My lord was
kery pleased at the cleverness of the pilot, and
Showed his approbation in a handsome manner :
he gave the pilot (who had the extreme honour of
handing her ladyship, with about five hundred-
weight of luggage, off, the steamer), a whole
shilling for himself and another shilling to be
divided between the engineer and his assista” t.
His lordship felt much disgusted on hearing the
pilot (who evidently thought at first that his was
a sovereign at least) most emphatically exclaim,
“ Only a ——— shilling 1” The bloated aristocrat
and his crowd sped on by train at Government ex-
pense, and the pilot drank confusion to him with
the “bob.”
* * *
Lady Parkes, wife of Sir Henry Parkes,
died on Thursday, February 2, at Balmain,
Sydney, aged nearly 75. For several years she
has been almost unknown to the world, and her
death now recalls her to the memory cf many who
had almost forgotten her existence. She was a
native of Birmingham (Eng.), where she was mar-
ried in 1836, and two years later came to Aus-
tralia with her husband. Despite the many years
which she spent in N.S.W., Lady Parkes was
little known to the public, though she was de-
servedly loved and esteemed by her circle of per-
sonal friends, and so retiring was she that she was
only once persuaded, during her husband's long
political career, to appear at the opening of Par-
liament. She died from that disease which medi-
cal "science describes as natural decay, and her re-
mains were interred on Saturday in the secluded
A DIPLOMATIC WAGER.
BORE: “I’M GOING DOWN TOMORROW.”
JOHNSON: “I BET YOU DON’T.’
BORE: “WHAT’LL YOU BET?"
JOHNSON: “ I’LL BET YOU ENOUGH TO INDUCE YOU TO GO.”
mountain cemetery at Faulconbi idge. Her funeral,
like her life, was unostentatious, only the personal
friends of the deceased lady being invited to at-
tend. The Ven. Archdeacon Gunther, of Parra-
matta, and the Rev. M. Archdall, of Balmain,
read the buml service at the grave, and then the
coffin, loaded with floral wreaths, was lowered
into its resting place. The plate upon the lid
bore the inscription: * Clarinda, wife of Sir
Henry Parkes, G.C.M.G,, born July 20, 1813, died
February 2, 1888."
* * •
Dear Bulletin, — Knowing how gallant
you are I feel sure you will allow me space to
“ventilate”—l believe that is the proper term—
the following grievance relative to the employ-
ment of women. Having tried various “genteel”
ways of earning an honest living, from governess-
ing in the back-blooks to canvassing for a bogus
land sale in Melbourne, I hailed with delight the
following advertisement which appeared in the
columns of the Sydney Morning Herald, and to
which I sent the subjoined reply
WANTED, a Superior Working Housekeeper, must be
industrious, educated, musical, trustworthy, good
cook, good needlewoman, wages £4O. Address testi-
monials to “ Qotd Pro Quo, G P.O.’’
“ Sir, —In answer to the above I would like to say
that I possess some of the desired qualifications.
For instance, I am equally at home in the kitchen
and the drawing-room, being able to do anything
from splitting wood for the stove to painting
water-lilies and dreams in blue-and-gold for the
parlor brackets. I am industrious, always liking
to work till 11 o’clock at night, and not caring to
rise later than five in the morning. I am fairly
educated, having entered Melbourne University
‘ with credit ’ and come out ‘ with honors ’ I
am musical; thus, after washing up the dinner-
plates and putting a superfine polish on the sauce-
pan lids I could entertain you with the master-
pieces of Mendelssohn, Mozart, Beethoven, Bach,
or Sarti; should you feel sad, the gay airs of
Verdi, or a delicious waltz by Strauss mightmake
you grateful that such men had lived. At other
times Wagner might exasperate you, or Sullivan
remind you that ‘To polish up the handle of the
big front door ’ was one of my daily duties. If
you sing I oould accompany you ; or if you would
be sung to I could —after having laid the kitchen
fire, and got your boots ready for the morning-
warble to you in French or Italian. I am trustworthy:
you oould give me untold gold, and find it quite
correct when you cams to count it over. I can
cook —Soyer and Brillat-Savarln were mere
culinary quacks ; besides, I am a philosopher, and
a man’s face is but as an open page in a cookery-
book. Like Shakespeare’s heroine, lam ‘ delicate
with my needle,’ and can sew anything, from car-
pets to fine lace. As it is not mentioned, I sup-
pose the washing is ‘ put out,’ which latter is a
pity, as that branch of domestic economy is my
special pride and joy. Wages no object; age, 24;
complexion neither fair nor dark ; figure tall and
slender; family good—blood of the bluest blue,
but
Necessitate non habet legem."
Would you believe it, dear Bulletin—out of 10
applicants, I was rejected, solely on the ground
that “ I knew too much ” ? This set me thinking,
and the result was that I began at once to drop
my h’s, and any other educated nonsense that I
had about me; put two yards extra steel in my
“improver," let down my back-hair in a pig-tail,
donned a poke hat, and marched forth, resolved
to conquer or to die. I enlisted as a “ general," the
field of battle was a registry office, the skirmish
was short, sharp and decisive. In half-an-hour I
was dictating the terms of peace—sixteen shillings
a week, no washing, every night out, and a holi-
day whenever I liked. Verbum sap. P.S.—At
prisint Oi’m doin’ a maeh wid the mas liter, whoile
missus is toastin' her face in the kitchen, cookin’
the dinner.—Yours truly, Biddy-which-is-
Maud.
* * *
An individual who hasn’t relf-respect
enough to walk before a lord, and would prefer to
wriggle Into his presence on his Btomach, sug-
gests, per the sympathetic S. M. Herald, that
the exact spot where Carington stood when per
! forming the ceremony of opening the N.S.W. Cen-
tennial Park, should be marked by “an obelisk"
bearing Bob’s name and address, and any airy
trifle of like breathless interest, on a brass plate.
Also tho data when he did it, and a photograph
would be Inserted to show just how he looked as
he did it, and a weather map, too, ought to be
here, to show our great-grandchildren what sort
of a day it was while he was doing it, There’s
lots of scope in an obelisk ; and if there was more
room left the genius who suggested the thing
might preserve one of his ears in oil, and nail
that up too—but we don’t suppose there’d be
space for it.
• * •
No wonder Bonnor, the “Australian
Giant,” continues to stay in England. Here is a
slab of the marmalade served out to him in a
recent issue of— hold your breath—the Family
Herald:—
Mr. Bonnor, the Australian cricketer, stands 6ft. 6in. in
height; but you surely do not think that his immense height
makes him ungainly ? He is quick as a kitten, strong as a
horse, and so handsome and graceful that he is finer than
any Greek statue that we have seen. Our opinion is shared
by Mr. Ruskin, who was taken to see the Victorian giant.
Bonnor was constantly at exercise when he was young, and
his magnificent thaws make his height seem unexaggerated.
Again, take Mr. W. G. Grace. He stands about 6ft. 2in.,
but his chest is about 47in , and his limbs are gigantic.
While he was growing he was always at cricket, and the con-
sequence is that at 40 years of age he is one of the biggest,
nimblest, and most splendid athletes in Great Britain.
* * *
The Auckland Club—immortalised by
“ Ocaana ” Fraude—gave a recherche spread to the
officers of the Fleet daring their late trip to the
North Island of N Z. Which reminds us that one of
the greatest of modern sights is to see a senior officer
enter a club accompanied by three or four mid-
shipmen each aged 13 or 14 years. “Will you
have a drink ? ” says the senior officer. “ Yaas,"
chorus the midshipmen. “ Smoke ? ” says the
senior officer. “Yaas,” chorus the midshipmen,
who immediately proceed to pull out nine-inch
cigars and place themselves outside brandies and
sodas inches taller than themselves. It is
rumoured that the other night In Auckland a
midshipman fell into a glass of whisky-squash
and would have been drowned in it but for the in-
tervention of a gallant .navigating lieutenant. As
ib was he bad a very narrow escape and sank
twice ere he was pulled out.
Carnarvon haß been the guest of Mr. Jen-
klrs at Armidale (N.S.W.) This is, indeed, a
strange coincidence.
* * #
There was a full-flavoured joke perpetrated
at a church bazaar not long since. Two young
ladies offered to assist the good cause by vending
kisses at the rate of sixpence each, or go-as-you-
please for half-a-crown. Unfortunately, before
starting business, they partook of the cold colla-
tion purveyed by the local psaim ist—cold ham
and pickles. When the first log-roller eame up
to the scratch he quickly collapsed and begged to
be excused. Reckoned he didn’t come down here
to weed no onion-beds, anyway. The simple-
minded settler searching for grace llketh not the
aroma of the pickled onion. Let us pray.
* * #
Is it edifying to see an active, wealthy,
titled member of the Upper House exhibit his
gold pass when a tram fare is demanded, while at
the same time a decrepid, poverty-stricken old
woman planks her tuppence when called upon by
the conductor ? Yet we witnessed such on Cen-
tenary Day in a Sydney railway tram.
* * •
In one of the leading hotels in a Western
town of N.S.W., tho inevitable bagman put in an
appearance, and, being minus matches, applied to
the hostess (a lady of rather forbidding aspect).
The lady remarked that they were not in the
habit of BupplyiDg the boarders with luoifers,
when the not-to-be-abashed bagman rejoined :
“Well, put a box on my dressing-table and charge
them to me. D the expense.” So muoh for
the present leading hotels of the Mother Colony of
the Australias
* * *
How the plunging Marquis of Hastings
sneaked the promised bride of Mr. Henry Chaplin
is an oft-told tale. How Chaplin revenged him-
self upon his rival and the faithless fair—-ha! ha !
—by winning the Derby with Hermit (a horse
which the Marquis was induced to lay against to
the tune of £100,000) is also a matter of history.
But, if rumour doesn’t lie, the patient Chaplin is
about to give more mortification to his former
“ Kiri." After having already half-healed the old
heart-wound by marrying a duke’s daughter (who
died young), the now mature widower has per-
THE ONE THING NEEDFUL.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
She was gentle and very good-humoured,
Her beauty no language can tell,
And she had (it was commonly rumoured)
A nice bit of money as well;
She danced like a sylph, or a fairy,
So gracefully glided and sprang—
But the fly in the ointment with Mary
Was a horrid Colonial Twang.
Her teeth were of ivory whiteness,
Her hair in sweet wantonness curled—
She seemed like a vision of brightness
Come down to illumine the world.
But the spell in an instant was broken,
My poetic bubble went bang,
When her first words of welcome were spoken
With a horrid Colonial Twang,
She chatted with sweet animation,
Her grammar was quite without flaw ;
But, while she kept up conversation,
Dear Mary kept dropping her jaw ;
She played very well the piano,
Then (after some pressing) she sang,
And billed a most tender soprano
With a horrid Colonial Twang.
What odds, though her gold tresses glistened—
What mattered how clever her quips
To me, as I shuddered and listened ?
Oh ! why did she open her lips ?
I sighed as I left her for ever,
And felt at my bosom a pang—
But I never oould love her, no, never,
With that horrid Colonial Twang.
Though the words of a woman bo witty,
Though her song have an angelio ring—
O ! in talking, or warbling a ditty,
The accent is really the thing ;
For the fairest of Mother Eve’s daughters
I care not a button—a hang,
If Her Gracious's English she slaughters
With a horrid Colonial Twang.
DONTCHERKNOW


Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
oity w that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The Proprietor, MnM.
S h alvey» has spared no expense to make bis hotel the first
in Sydney.*
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour It is made in the colony from
best colonial wheat by the neweßt patented machinery,
i quality U exceptionally good, and the prioe Tory low."
When next van bake try Femell's Snow-whit; RofcL*»
VbOVRi and fonr brand will be m white as mow.*
BY GABLE.
The Great Horse-trainer to visit Australi a.
It is reported the great horse trainer will sail
by the first American mail beat to Australia. The
Champion takes with him 27 printed rules as to
how to approach a business end of a kicking horse.
A man once forgot one of them for the hundreth
part of a second. He was sent with catapulut
velocity into the next world before he had a
chance to explain himself. The ODly means of
identification was a cork found among the frag-
ments of a glass bottle branded Anheuser St,
Louis Lager Beer,
suaded the Countess of Dudley to complete its
cure. The Countess is yet beautiful and decidedly
rich. With such an eligible bit of “j*m" to
eoothe his declining years, Henry Chaplin can
afford to turn his eyeglass on the washed-out Mar-
chionesß of Hastings (now the wife of Sir George
Chetwynd), and thank heaven that she jilted him
in the long ago. You lovers who have been
cruelly “left" by your little rose-buds will find
much comfort and joy in this paragraph.
• * *
It is said that in Melbourne,, the other day,
as a fashionably-dressed girl was standing around
in the costume department of a Collins-street
draper’s shop, a shop-walker, anxious to make
more room put his arm round her waist and pro-
ceeded to haul her to one side. A sharp, shrill
and indignant feminine shriek startled one soul-
less man of calico, who discovered that he had
mistaken a Melbourne belle for one of the lay
figures which are plentiful and life like in that
department. Hia explanations and apologies were
sweetly entertained. For is it nob the goal of
every average woman’s ambition to be the fac-
simile of the draper’s wooden model 1
» * *
Tennis is running cricket closely for pre-
eminence as a summer amusement in New Zea-
land. There are 12 public courts in Auckland.
* * *
“Drink fair” is a maxim of modem
social life. Under the electric-bell knob in the
press room at Parliament House, Wellington,
N.Z., there used to hang a card bearing the lines :
“ gome fellows work, some fellows think,
Some fellows ‘ shout,’ most fellows drink ;
Some spend freely, but there are some
Who never, never agitate the tintlnnabulum. ’
• *
The following, from Sydney E. News, re-
veals the sorb of girl whom we adore :
TTARUY 8., keep your letters, won’t have them, would
*-*■ not touch them with a pitchfork. Bella, Rubb.
Bella Is brief and to the point, and gallops over
the mangled corpse of the British grammar in
order to reach her point, but she gets there
mighty quick, and that Is the main thing in this
world. #
It is related that
when Linton, Anglican
Bishop of Riverina, was
going his diooesanrounds,
he stopped for the night
at a certain back-block
squatter’s. Th@ squatter
and his wife “my
lorded” him every other
word, while their eldest
hopeful, a boy of 5,
watched the six feet-
three, black-aproned and
knickerbookered giant,
with a mouth like a tea-
cup. At the dinner the
my lording was kept up
hotter than ever, till, in
a pause, young hopeful
whispered audibly, “ Ma,
God Almighty wants
<anoth<&)' potato." Teach
the young idea how to
efeoot I
* * *
One hot day last
week Justice Boucaut, of
Adelaide, dropped his
wig and gown and in-
vited the Bar to follow
13n.it. "Old Moley,” of
Melbourne, often took off
his wig when the sun
was 95 in the shade, but
the late Joseph Henry
Dunne got into trouble
with the late Justice Sir
Redmond Barry for hav-
ing laid his wig on the
Bar table one February
day. Redmond sent the
crier down to Joseph to
politely remind him that
“they were in court.”
Dunne muttered some-
thing about “ blanked
nonsense," and clapped
on his horsehair again.
The present Lord Chan-
cellor Ashbourne, of Ire-
land, when at the Bar
couldn’t wear a wig in court on account of ill-
health, and to save appearances used to turn
up before their lordships with his hair powdered.
* * *
An American skating rink at Wellington
(N.Z) cleared £2OOO in four months.
• * *
A certain Btout lady has been charming
the large and tuneful ear of the Auckland “ hoi
ipolloi ” with her seductive top notes in oratorio.
During a recent swell performance of the
“Messiah” the youth who had been engaged to
sell librettos approached one of the “ gentlemen
ushers,” and, pointing to Herr Schmitt (the con-
ductor), asked, “ What's the cove tryin’ to hit the
fat gal for with that stick ?” “ Keep quiet, boy,”
replied the G.U,, as he struggled out of his shirt-
collar, “he’s not trying to hit her." ‘ Well,
then,” persisted the kinchin, “ what in thunder
makes her holler so ?”
* * *
Another distinguished aristocrat who is
in route for Australia, is a person recently ex-
pelled from a swell regiment. This shining
Sight will be accompanied by a Gaiety actress of
shady reputation through whom he has got into
trouble. _ .
# * *
A weird tale eohoes faintly from the far
“ bak blox ’’ of Australia—the region where the
burst selector endeavours vainly to gather grapes
from the slab sided cow, and where the hog kicks
up a dust in wilds where the wattle blooms.
Four loafers were sitting in a store—four slow,
meditative loafers, all waiting till the storekeeper
should get so tired that he would give them some-
thing to eat in the hope that they might go away.
The storekeeper sat on the counter with his legs
hanging down, and thoughtfully Bized them up.
They looked as if they had taken root, and after
two hours of waiting he acknowledged, with a
sinking in his heart, that there was nothing for
it but to let them feed. So be carelessly prised
open a barrel of dried apples, and then he sat as
before with his legs hanging down, and watched
the deadbeats wade in. They got half-way
through the barrel, and then four loafers began to
clamour for something to drink. The emotionless
shopman brought in a dipper of Water, and
scratched his unshorn chin pensively and gafced
with lack-lustre eyes at the unseen while they
swallowed a pint apiece on top of those dried
apples, which immediately swelled up to such an
extent that they obscured the premises. Then
ensued a scene of agony. Bach unemployed
complained that he was several sifces larger than
his skin, and wanted to get out and look at himself
andhaveabreathof freshair. Still thefruit swelled,
and presently the four were wallowing on the
floor crying and using smothered expressions
culled from the slums of their mother tongue,
and asking for something—St. Jacob’s Oil, ink,
patent hog-specific, hair-restorer, gum, anything
at all, and be dashed quick about it—to relieve
their misery. Meanwhile the storekeeper sab
peacefully on the counter with his legs resting on
nothing, and his far-away eyes roaming over the
boundless fields of Time, apparently oblivious of
the racket around him. At last, however, he got
down slowly and reached for the castor-oil —but
the subject is not worth pursuing any further.
I He simply reached for the castor-oil, and the story
closes.
* * *
A High Church clergyman of ritualistic
tendencies, out West in N.S.W., carefully en-
closes his bill for psw-rents in an envelope ad-
dressed to the debtor, with the number of quarters
owing marked in the corner. This is left in the
pew for the edification of pious worshippers. He
ought to adopt the plan of the devil-dodger who
had a little velvet pocket fixed to each pew for
the offerings of the occupants, he being thereby
enabled to plaoe a fixed money value on each of
his parishioners.
* * •
A London paper hangs out its shingle and
starts business as a prophet of morals. Is tells a
touching story of a girl who was hugged and
kissed in a railway-carriage, and, after explaining
the way it was done, it adds that—
Fearing more violent oonduct, she endured the fellow’s in-
sulting embraces until the train made its first stoppage at
Bishophriggs, when she immediately jumped out of the car-
riage, and complained !
This leads us to remark that we also knew a girl
once in a swelbering North Queensland town who
was kissed under somewhat similar circum-
stances. She was housemaid in the hotel where
we used to leave our boots outside the door and
THE NEW HEBRIDES QUESTION.
find them in the morning just as we had left
them, and she was the prettiest maiden in all that
vast stretch of sheol with the lid off. Also her
name was Susan, and one morning as we stumbled
along the passage we ran up against a fat com-
mercial-traveller who had Susan in his arms.
When he had quite finished kissing her we re-
monstrated. “ Susan,” we said, solemnly, * ‘ why
do you let that caravan of bear’s grease go on like
that?" “ Well, you see,” she replied, “ it’s too
hot to make a fuss If I let him kiss me it’s all
over in a minute, but if I don’t let him kiss me,
why there’s an awful scrimmage and I feel like to
drop.” After that we kissed Susan ourselves
pretty regularly.
* * *
Sir Robert Wisdom says the meat and
f ruib of England are not equal to those of Austra-
lia ! Sir Robert Wisdom’s intentions in this mat-
ter are no doubt very patriotic, but he talks great
nonsense, all the same. Why doesn’t Sir Robert
also tell us that Australian fish is better than
English fieb, and Australian beer better than Eng-
lish beer ? He might have added that Australian
women have better complexions than English
women and that the whisky you get at the Civil
Service stores and the Reform Club beats any-
thing obtainable in Scotland.
# * *
There was a grand display of “ science ”
in the Yorick Club, Melbourne, the other day.
A certain habitue of that resort who spends most
of his time in the card-room had a row with a
well-known pressman over Borne “ paper ” which
the latter gave to the former in se‘tlement of a
little transaction wherein the newspaper-man
lost. The scribe was pressed so tightly by his an-
tagonist, who had him at full lengbh on the floor
with a desperate hold on his throat, that, but for
the merciful interference of a few other clubmen
present, the proprietor of a certain metropolitan
daily would have had a funeral notice and an ad.
for a reporter in next issue.
• * *
Mr. Speight, Chief Commissioner of Vic-
torian Railways, has sat upon a projected banquet
to the locomotive superintendent, and squashed it
out of Contemplation. The high priest of engines
was fed and tickled before departing for Yurrup
a year ago, and now a little clique of adherents
(who wax fat upon the manufacture of rolling-
stock, probably) want to celebrate the teturn of
their dear friend by mote chicken and titillation.
Speight objects to this on the ground that too
much banquet is apt to interfere with the active
discharge of duty, so “public” devotion towards
the locomotive gentleman must be restricted to
an Illuminated grovel and a purse of money. A
long-headed fellow is Mr. Speight, with a big
down on the division that wants to make “ repre-
sentative citizens ” of all the greasers and stokers
in the railway service.
* * *
Up North, some time ago, an adipose,
elderly, and wealthy widow contrived to buy, as
her husband, a good-looking young fellow half her
age, who had come to her house to make love t o her
governess. After a short period of gilded misery,
the youth, having made friends to hi me elf of the
mammon of iniquity, skipped with the gover-
ness, and left the old girl lamenting. The course
of true love," &c.
* * *
A paragraph is going round, about a bridal
party being poisoned by wedding cake. Pooh !
We never knew any wedding-cake that wasn t
poisonous if you ate enough of it; and when we
say “ enough ” we don't mean very much either.
* * *
At the Press Centennial banquet, before
the oysters came on, a Melbourne pressman got
into conversation with a strange gentleman next
to him, and, as the talk warmed up, the Mel-
bourne man’s language became correspondingly
hot—so much so, that the Sydney man concluded
he was honoured with the company of the editor
of the Melbourne HeraLd When Mayor Harris
took the chair, the Sydney hi an arose and said
grace! He turned out to be a Presbyterian
parson, who runs a religions paper! The Mel-
bourne scribe afterwards fondly hoped that the
Centennial Hall would topple over and bury his
miserable self in its ruins.
# * *
On the strictest Q.T. we hear that a
recherche young actress, shortly due in Sydney, has
made up her mind to leave Australia in March.
If she carries out) hot resolution, there will be a
horrible epidemic among the dudes. Speaking
for ourselves, we shall regard death as a happy
release.
* * *
Minister Pearson, of Victoria, has dis-
missad a State school-teacher “for living in con-
iugal relations with two women.” If Minister
Pearson had had the will and the power to act on
this principle a few years ago he would have had
to dismiss at least one Ministerial colleague of his
own.
* * *
From S. A. Advertiser :
n-ENTIiEMAN speaking six languages ; Piano; wants
situation; salary no objection. 1 8.C.D., this
office. .
Salary no objection ! We will now proceed to
reduce the six languages to five.
• * *
It ia currently reported that a very great
number of “ distinguished personages,” who were
“ not wanted ” at the feed during the
recent Centennial celebration at Sydney, received
their invitations after the affair had eventuated.
* * *
A Melbourne cabman picked up a beauti-
fully-costumed fare the other afternoon, and
placidly drove her around until she owed him
about one pound sterling. At that stage of the
proceedings cabby mildly suggested that he
would like to give his horse a feed and collect a
trifle on account. The lady beamed upon him
through the trap-door, and remarked that she
hadn’t any money herself, but was blessed with
rich friends in England, and would he kindly
drive her back to Kew Lunatic Asylum, because
it was getting near the pati6kt’s bed time. The
poor creature was nearly as mad as cabby.
* * *
Fishy advertisement from the S.M.
Herald :
TIOME offered to woman or girl, no work ; child no
object. Friend, Herald.
Blue eyes preferred and a blonde bang indispen-
sable, we presume.
* * *
There exists a kind of rivalry in moat of
the back-blocks towns as to which shall show the
hottest weather, and thermometers are ofteh
placed close to an iron roof fot the purpose of Tun-
ing up the mercury. At Coonamble (N.S.W.), a
man at a roadside shanty made_ a b6t that the
“blanked instrument” was 175* in the shade,
and y?on it. But he had previously instructed the
cook to hold a hot flat-iron in front of the ther-
mometer for a few minutes ! That man is a
genius, and when he dies and goes there he will
probably get complaining to A.baddon that the
temperature isn’t up t to a Coonamble scorcher by
three degrees.
A CONVERSATION OVERHEARD IN
PITT-STREET.
No, thanks! Tnever go in for gold or silver
mines. At the best, if all’B square, they are but
lotteries. I like something solid and sure. The
shares of the Australasian Trust Management
Company are my only fancy. Nothing like them
for safe and increasing dividends. I took 1000 of
their first issue early last year. Can’t get any
more of them, so I’m going in for 200 of their £5
Guaranteed Preference Shares.
Guaranteed shares ? Wha > are they 1
Why, you pay one-fouith (£1 S' - .) per share in
cash, or by instalments of Is. per share per month,
and if you have houses, or land, or shares, or
deposit receipts or cash, you can deposit your
deeds, shares, deposit receipts or cash as
a guarantee for the balance of £3 15s. per
share, and you continue to occupy your house, or
to draw your rents or dividends, or interest pay-
able as usual on your deposited securities ; or if
you guarantee by deposit of cash you draw in-
terest thereon at Current Bank Rates, receiving
also, in any case, a bonus of £8 per cent; per
annum on the amount so guaranteed, together
with a share Of profits on ard from payment tip
of the £1 ss. per share; And you may change of
withdraw your security at pleasure.
Why, how can they afford to give a bonus of £2
per cent, on money they cannot employ 1
Well, you see, as they need a big capital to
secure a special Act of Parliament and the con-
fidence of trustees, it’s easier to get out a large
capital in this way, for there are thousands who,
having houses, land, or other securities, are glad
to make a second profit on them ; arid it’B cheaper
to give a bonus of £2 per cent, than to pay a high
rate of dividend on a large paid-up capital, so
shareholders and company are both benefited 3
and while the public have the guarantee of an un-
doubted capital, the company, being able to afford
such a (olid security, attracts a good business, and
makes a good return on the part paid up.
It seems all right; but I never heard of such
shares before !
Oh! guaranteed shares are common m Holland
and the Cape, and you know the old Dutch finan-
ciers are safe, long-headed fellows and I dont
suppose anyone would object to follow their
good example, and make a second profit on their
securities when they have the chance.
Well, no, if it’s safe.
Safe! Why “trust management” business is
at once the safest and most profitable of businesses
—nothing like it for safety, and nothiog has ever
equalled it for large and constantly increasing
dividends.
That’s a strong assertion.
Well it’s true—nothing more true. You see,
being only an agency business a trust company
has no risk ; and its business once well started
increases as testators die off to an extent which
must y eld an amount of business on which to
draw commissions very many, many times in ex-
cess of its capital; The profi sof every business
depend on doiog the largest amount of business
on the smallest possible capital, and Trtist Manage-
ment business gives this chance in the highest de ;
gree.
What will they pay ? You seem to have studied
the matter.
Well, you know I’m cautious. I never go in for
anything with my eyes shut, bnt why I know so
much about the matter ie—you remember meeting
Moller at my bouse about three years since, when
he was on a visit to the Cape—well, he expressed
surprise that we had no Trust Management Com-
pany here ; couldn’t do without them at the Cape
he said. He told me of several friends who, or
whose widows, are now drawing enormous divi-
dends which bad increased in 30 years from £8 to
£3OO per cent., and more in one case.
That seems too good to he true.
Well, it is true ; but it has taken time, of course
—it’s the growth of business over many years. He
told me no Trust Company has ever gone wrong,
they can’t go wrong, they all make steady progress.
What has been doce at the Cape and in Melbourne
oan surely be done here; Why not i
One would think so I didn’t know the*- halt
any such compat ies in Melbourne.
Oh, yes, and all doing weil ; one already pays
£2O per cent.
What do you expect to make ?
I calculate on a certain £8 per cent, perhaps
£lO, as soon as the company gets its capital, and
I am sure I am within the mark in looking for an
increase of at leasb £2 per cent, per annum; so
that my wife, when I’m under the turf, will get
say 30 per cent, on my £lOOO, or £3OO a year.
Well, it’s all very well for you, Jones—youv’e
houses and cash to deposit—you’re a man of capi-
tal ; I’ve no deeds to deposit. I’ve only a few
hundreds to inve >t.
alien £1 “Preference” Bhares, the third Issue
of this company, will just suit your pocket. Sub-
scribe for a few of them, and you will certainly
make money. You have no need to guarantee
them. They may be paid up in fall, or to ss.
only, at your option, and by monthly instalments
of one shilling. They bear a preference dividend
of £6 per cent, per annum from payment of ss.
per share, and will certainly pay the biggest divi-
dend ever known in a few yea? a time. Take 500
for yourself and the wife and 100 apiece for the
children. They 11 be the best provision for them.
They’ll be at a good premium in a few months, I’ll
bet. Take as many as you can and you’ll never
regret it.
Well, I think I’ll take your advice and leave
the “ Squatter Hills” alone and go in for 600 £1
preference shares of “ The Australasian Trust
Management Co.” Where’s their office ?
Corner of King and Elizabeth streets, Svdney.
Read the company’s prospectus in last Friday’s
“ Daily Telegraph.” Be smart about it. The
shares ara going off fast, I’m told. Good-bye, old
man.


DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring medicine i 3 de.
bell’s bitters.
That it cures Biliousness, I c digestion, Dyspepsia, Head-
ache, and Kidney aud Liver comi laints.
Thai it is a wonderful medicine for restoring and sharpen-
ing the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples, Cr
other diseases of the Blood-
Jf you suffer from any of these affections, try dr. bell’s
bitters at once.
Dr. bell s bitiers as ‘a Blood Purifier has no equal. It
ones the sjstem, strengthens and invigorates, giving new
The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the only
nown Specific for Kidney. Live' anti TJri.jary diseases, that
(has no equal as a BLOOD PUR'PiER, and that it is the
ettsafeguard against contagious (i.sea es, both acute and
chronic, keeping the KIDNEYS and LIVER, the great
gt.ES of the body, in healthy condition, disease then being
WILL con vino 3 you of the wonderful cura-
ti e tT 'perfcies combined in dr bell's
bitters, if the remarkable cures that have
effected by its use fail to impress upon your
epeatedly p oven fact. Thousands are using it,
mind this
and all d‘ -
are that it is a
and even mo e than
y'u are sick, i r
medicine possessing all
we-ciaimfi rit. Myfriend,
in that condition that
you cannot call you s a .f either tick or go and get a
bot;le of dr. Bell f buter 4 *, and realise youraelf how this
medicine hits the right spot, and
puts all the machinery of you. body
into working order.
CONVINCE
One of our prominent busie ess men said to us the other
day : ‘'ln the spring my wife got all mn down and could
noteat anything; passing a store I saw a It t of bells
bitters in the.wiodow, and I got a bottle. After she had
been taking it a week she had a rousing appe ite, and it did
her A world op good. She took three bottles, and it was
the lest investment ever made. ,
PBOVIDENCE
Helps those who help themselves. Nature his provide
herbs for the cure of human ailments, and medical tcieoc
has discovered then healing powers, ar d the p-oper combina
tions necessary to conquer disease. The result of these dis
coveries and combinations is—
DR. BELL’S BITTERS.
For many years it has be»n tented in s were cases of Kid
ney and Liver diseases, Malaiia, Dyspepsia, Indigestion
Weakness, Lassitude, &c., s-nd invariably ic has given relie
and cu e. Thousands of testimonials have been given, anc
it is most popular wheie best known.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.80.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
or Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas, Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director,
A 1
THBATRB ROY
Under the Direction of
Ifesara. Williamson, Garner, and MnsgrOTe
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Laear.
THIS (THURDAY) EVENING, February 9,
and for a limited number of nights,
THE MIKADO,
written and composed by
W. S. GILBERT and Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN.
Prices Dress circle, 55.; Stalls, 35. ; Circle, Is.
Kbb majestys theatre,
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison,
Doors open 7. } Performance 8. t Carriages 10.30,
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, Os., 3a., 2a., Is.
Box Plan ab Nicholson's and Co.'s,
j, p, MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-straet, Hajrmarkeb.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.30,
IRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performers.
Under the Couduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.*
QSXIKBION IHIAIB
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager ... ... Mr. Joe Davis.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. A, L. Cunard.
SECOND WEEK SECOND
of the most popular of all the many
London Gaiety Successes,
A SPECTACULAR OPES A EXTRAVAGANZA,
(written by Robert Reece, Esq.),
entitled the
FORTY THIBVBS
FORTY THIEVES
FORTY THIKVRS
FORTY THIEVES.
Admission —5s , 3s , 25. ; and la.
Box plan at Nicholson's,
Alhambka music hall.
George-street, Baymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington
VOX POPULIi
! MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
READ ON. itEAD ON.
NEW FACES. NEW ACTS. NEW
PROGRAMME.
ALI! ALli -A LI!
The Woe dorful Electrical Automaton will now
appear in several New Acts.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Balcony, fid
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
SATURDAY AFT*R OON Next, FebtuaTy 11.
THE MOST EXCITING, NOVEL,
and
intfresting EVENT
ever witnessed in
THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
HORSES v. BICYCLES.
F. S. ROLHNSON and SAMUEL CLARKE,
Cl ampion Bicycle Rid ers,
are matched for £5O and gate leceipts to ride
against W. F. ROBINSON
with h's THREE HORSES.
The distance is 20 Miles
Look out for Gra T d Programme.
RACE STARTS at 330 p.m. ADMISSION, is.
Grand Stand and Skating Rink, 2s.
ALFRED WYHUKD. Manager
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUHAI«G
T«E GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON,
Open from 10 a.m, to 10 p.m.
Admission Is.
TATTER3ALL’S
MONSTfR CONSHTATI W
Are open upon all the Principal Raclrg Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tatter sail’s, 1 ’ care
ot George Adams, Tattersall s Hotel, Sydney Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure s»fe delivery;
also er close two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
A Good Night’s Sport
Can always ba had at
FOLEY’S ATHLETIC HALL.
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australia*
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amusement of his patrons.
Something good on every week. For particular*
see future announoementa.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
desire a knowledge of the solenoe of eelf-defonoe.
Classes now open.
Wh» in Sydney, iw you bum Fohy’i top
HAVN NOT Blffi THN CITY.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDER A, N.S.W
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train,
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor
Good Sample Rooms.
DR. TUKE, M.R.C.S,
England.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SXLF-CURffi
for all Nervous Diseases ; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Dr. TUKffi guarantees a
thorough and permanent cure in every case under-
taken, after consultation, by letter or In person.
Consultation costs nothing, and the Doctor will
tell you at onoe whether your case is curable or
not. Address-
Dr. TUKE. M.R.C.S., Eng.,
7 Spring-ab.. Sydney
ofjSydntg,
JENOLAN'CAVESiBLU£^MOUNTAINS&
31&CE0RGE SSio»wtKuim3iS:*CßA
JACK'S PRINCE OP WALE'd HOTEL,
ST. KILDA.
|HIS first- class Hotel offers superior aooommoda-
-1 tion to visitors andresidents, being in a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Kilda Railway Station. Private suites
of apartments. Ladies' drawing-room. Gentlemen's
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra oharge.
ASMOKE AND CHEW
HIT ami TO
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
&
a/av^
CUT TOBACCOS.
On receipt of P. O Order for M Is. we wil
immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTURE
in |lb. Packets, noted for its fine flavour, togetbe
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE ir
case. And a nice TOBACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS’ CHRISTMAS BOX,
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
Jib. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the colony upon reoeipt o;
P. O. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us, and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. 6d,
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATCH BOXES,
and
All other artloles apertaining to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
If only to inspect these. We have almost every
kind of stick obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying in price from 6d. to £1 Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line.
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We recommend you to send for one of our razors
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
Hairdressers.
N.8.--Hair made up in any design,
OWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
CBHIE HKD IITKEI,
Tobacconists’ and Hairdressers’
gnndrymcn,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
cull i . tiitt Js-iCRj-irs imi .
“wot T*>f sehe »w to tnoot wtoßwto if tHHaap as*
OUT THE ADDRESS OUV,
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken bwc
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known,
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England,
Port Adelaide, Ootober 30 1886,
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in reoom*
mending Row’s D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several yeirs with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver oomplaintto try them,—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 21.1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersignedi—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for bo many years.
I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney,
bidili
iIK
m
IIM
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE, But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, It may
be as well to let them know that there is each an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now bo
famed throughout the world
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs, E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &0.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW 9
STEANE’S BITTERS
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen i
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS
‘‘l, GEORGE HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows j— y
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the Dublin fn
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called Arm
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and’ha™bSL
by my taking two or three glasses of ROWN
STEANE'S BITTERS a day to a ltMe
S 2, Aff UWMB "^r ta «' r ? n com.'
plaint will be as speedily cured,
“(Signed) G. HEWETT
«*»-» i j . _ 215 Pitt-stroet.
Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, befo
(Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P,"
Then try them, and ask for ROW'S BTKanv
BITTERS, prepared solely by HTKANB
BDW ROW and COMPANY.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, ia grieved
In spirit because nobody asked God's blessing
upon those imported provisions served at the Cen
tennial banquet, an omission calculated to “ please
the Roman Catholics present ” In the name of
Christianity this nice man calls upon Protestants
to form a phalanx wth the object, doubiless, of
maki-g things very unplos nt, all round.
That’s the way to shove the blessad rause along.
If it were not for felaws like Thornton we should
sion drop Into a lezy way of n ixing up the Pope,
Martin Lusher, John Wesley, and Buddha in our
daily preyars. And the knowledge that we were
all going to be damned or saved together would
rob existence of its one gre *t charm,
Long before Dr. Ross, M.P. for Molong,
N.S. W, ; siiccess’uliy contested his electorate-
then included in the Wellington division—he had
dr his oppot eat James Wakt field, an identity of
the West, shoe deceased. Wakefield was a
Squhttcr with all the cun ing of a bu,h lawyer,
and on maty occasions proved too much far the
Doctor. Healing chat the Utt a r would address
the electors in a b ck par/our of ge ial Jack
Wynne’s public-home on the Molong River, he
decernained to outdo him once mare. Wakefield
had in his employ a loquacious shepherd with a
thorough knowledge of the cur.ent jolitics of
that time. B.rguisirg this man in a sundowner's
garb, the proverbial “ bluey," find a bidy-can, he
sent him off ti the meetlrg. ’ihe politician’s elo-
quence flowed uninterrupted by disorder for half-
an-hour, when the stranger began to catechise the
speaker, some of the questions fcelng staggerers.
The electors up to this period sat listlessly, gap-
ing about the room; now, however, tbey began
to grin hideously, maddening the fiery Celtic
temper of the Doctcr, who had to suffer the
double indignity of being hafli3d by a tramp and
iaughed at by boundary iidsrs, grooms, and shep-
herds. For 10 minutes he put up with the tumult,
then, overcome by his unsympathetic surroundings,
he grabbed up his papers and fled f.om the room.
The shepherd, bluey, and billycan succeeded the
candidate and bis papers For two hours spoke
the follower of Wakefield, and gained such
applause that Dr. Ross, for the time, abandoned
politics and fame, and wichdrew from the contest.
To this day, however, he did rot know that he
was outwitted Vy his rival, James aforesaid.


Centrally
situateo
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO ALL THE LEADINC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
BRISBANE
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE
EQUATOR
-<n[[
a
□
u
E
A ™ " S
M
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH Alt THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attache! for the convenience of Lathes. Ladies’ Drawing-room, view of the Brisbane River
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. fey OOHMBRUIAL ROHM.
Reading, and expanding Ro.o, All getters and Telegram .PPl*« far Apae tm ..« - reee.ee Pran.Pt «• «•
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
■Victoria,.
THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
is the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention.
First-class Hotel Service. Accommodation for
200 Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ilk B, Sparing Si So.,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKINGS
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con -
sideration all Guestß visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public
Baths. Aloock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids.
J. 1. 1. Sjimiig,
PROPRIETOR.
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex*
hlbitlon FiKii
Fxiza Sold Medal.
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Palo
Ale.
EUDHSTBTTIRGKH.
R. CUNYNGHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
in bulk
and case.
Beat BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIQ-HTOIT OF IST-S-W-
At the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &0., are
BOTved on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner von can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of Che sea and surrounding country ;
r«Tnl a o voiT?an have good company, good wines-in fact, everything that can possibly make one
eomfortabk>°can be found at this really flrst-olass hotel. Fishing and picnic parties Provided. Table
at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors comfort able, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH. MANLY.
COLLINS-PLACE, COLLINt-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
To PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything In Sydney, send to
B. GIBBINGS & Co.,
GKEjJSTBR-A-Ij .A-G-HUTTS,
331 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
The Introduction of New Lines and Patents a
Speciality.
UoMtacaewd WWsiersT
■EFORS
Bo yd’s Beard Elixir did this.
mil do it on either bald
"ft tad or bare fact' Force»
heavy Mouslu/ he in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails. 20,000
Copyrighted, young men already wear full
l/opyrtgntea. young men airemsu j „ .
beards, having used 1 to 3 pkti. No injury, easily applied, cortafn
in effect Packets, U. Gd. each.Sfor 3s. 3d post paid, sent under
eoS free from observation. Address, VnA Bo«gl»«o Bole Agent,
Hoxl3a.a.r.o..tvdnty, W,B.w. ———
lDaTTsiaa.
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
OABTLEREAGH STREET.
fTIVEKYBODY \DI?U If T I
Hi SHOULD USB/ JT L IS U JLI Li »
EXTRA SUFKRFma
FLOUE!
IT IS MADB FROM THB BEST WHBAT
In a Mill replete with the newest and most approves
Nnw Pnoonse Machinmy,
The FRIOB la VERT LOW. and the QUALITY
la GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICTORIA FLOUR MILL
831 George-btreet. Sydney.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel la constructed on the mort modem prfnclplea.
targland vSSa Bedroom.,W. BMm of Aphrtoent. Mm
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraul Llft for
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
READ
«The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
" Australian Land
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
IT Is tha authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
T obleot is to flraly Inaugurate In Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform-to do
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more' e -spread
lma^rdSr^rao a^ e »ayl. r to thh, movement who doe, no. el-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
'raw GiTTRSORTPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEFD FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
THE GREAT TOOKAK ESTATE,
corner of Toorak and Glenferrie Roads, IOORAK,
WILL BE
SOLD BY AUCTION
IN VILLA AND MANSION SITES
on SATURDAYS, 11th and lS.h February next.
TERMS: 10 per cent, deposit; balance, 3,6, 12,
and 18 months at 6 per cent.
TlTi-E, CERTIFICATE.
Solicitor to the Estate:
W, H. LEWiS, Esq., 95 Collins- at W , Melbourne.
Surveyor:
LLOYD TAYLER. K.q , 53 Little Collins-st. W.,
Melbourne
Auctioneers in Conjunction.
MUNRO & BAILLIWU, Collins-Bt, hast,
if s. TUCKKTT, Collins-st. West.
THOS. F. CUMMING, Corner of Collins and
William Streets.
J. J. BRENNAN, Grattan-st., Carlton.
From whom plans and all particulars can be
obtained.
The Hon. T. F. Cunningham, M.L.C., Austra-
lian Club, Melbourne, will purchase allotments on
receipt of instructions for country buyers who can-
not attend the sale at the lowest rates.
THE land is the best ever yet submitted by
subdivision around Melbourne, and it is
admittedly the acme and perfection of the most
fashionable, the healthiest, the most charming,
and the most romantic spot of 1 ooi ak, which, it
is needleßS to say, stands without a rival amongst
the suburbs of Melbourne. The Estate, which is
surrounded by Mansions, has a beautifully pano-
ramic view. For accessibilitv to the City the
Estate excels all other fashionable residential sites
By road it is about miles from the Post-office
by rail it is considerably less. The Glen Iris R-i
way branches off from Burnley,'and after travel
ling one mile and three-quarters reaches the Rail
way Station to be erected on Mr. Ferguson’s pro
perty at the Glenferrie-road. This Station is two
minutes’ walk from the GREAT TOORAK
ESTATE. By rail the City will be reached from
your breakfast-table comfortably in fifteen
minutes. The Toorak Tram, now in course of
construction, will take you from the heart of the
City to within eight minutes’ walk of the Estate
for Threepence, and the omnibuses from the Tram
Terminus to Malvern pass the Estate. Gas and
water laid on. Drags and Conveyances will meet
Intending purchasers at South Yarra Station.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD.
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railway
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less than two miles from Menangle
Station, divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
ABE A, 2063 ACRES
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intended departure from the
colony, to submit to auction, at their rooms, 130
Pitt street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April,
at 11.30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly im-
proved properties ever submitted for sale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance,* resembling an English Country
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGES RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ART IFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH BNGI.ISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUSE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings,
stables, granaries, billiard-room, underground
tanks, &0., &o. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&c. Mlevaticn above sea level about 600tt.
CLIMATE SUP* RB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains,
%*lt being impossible within the limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MOUNT GILEAD, a descriptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate will be submitted in one lob, and
should the proprietor fail to obtain a price com-
mensurate with the value of the property, it will
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 50 ACRES to 400 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspect at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALE.


1 I
J.A
<j~j<
k ,
A COURAGEOUS BISHOP.
A CENTENNIAL OFFER.
A CONDITIONAL CHALLENGE.
Telegraphic agents never tell tarradiddles.
Should one be discovered doing such a thing, even
by accident, he would be promptly dismissed. This
makes them careful and their facts, as they
appear in the daily papers, are at all times to be
relied on, until they have been upset by later in-
formation. Therefore we attach considerable im-
portance to the publication of a statement said to
have been made by the Anglican Bishop of
Ballarat that he would undertake to walk down
Sturt-street in a costume of paa-green, if by so
doing he could benefit the golden city. The
reason for this courageous offer appears to be in
soma way connected with the supposition that
neither the seven Australian Governors, nor
Parkes, nor any of the principalities or powers
(including the press), had the decency to say,
“For what we are about to receive” at the
Sydney Centennial Banquet. Undoubtedly a lot
of people did say it; but there is always so much
noise made at these entertainments by the worthy
guests who get a good start on the oyster and
scrape him out of his shell with their koivea, that
appearances were in favour of the supposition.
But it is still further accentuated and aggravated
by some wicked newspaper which has represented
the bishops of one denomination, with their
aprons and gaiters, in a back seat, whilst the
dignataries of another in gorgeous robes passed
in and took the cake. Any well-balanced bishop
would resent this sort of thing, and if his Grace
of Ballarat does form himself into a pea green
procession in illustration of this peculiar phase
of Centennial sectarianism, and that brotherly
love whloh all Cnristians are supposed to have
for each other, then on certain conditions the
Waterbruy Watch Company will distribute the
wonderful Waterbary free throughout the fanction
to all participants and spectators. It is a good
bishop and the best of all watches. Just now it
sells freely all over the colonies at 13s. 6d., and
the demand out pa oes the supply; but, for the
purpose of perpetuating the memory of the Cen-
tenary, this offer will be kept open for one calendar
month from date, and for all business and canoni-
cal purposes during that time it may be referred
to as “ The Conditional Pea Green Centennial
Waterbury Watch Challenge of 1888.”
COOL,
CLEAR,
SPARKLING,
PURE and BRIGHT,
HEALTHFUL, and INVIGORA-
TING, and REFRESHING.
CLAUSEN’S NEW YORK CHAMPAGNE
LAGER BEER.
WITHOUT A RIVAL.
ABOUT THAT SOAP.
“And she went into the garden to cut a cabbage
leaf to make an apple pie, and a great shebear
coming up the street poked his head into the shop
window and said!— ‘What! No Cashmere Bou-
quet Soap! ’”
Many intelligent people who are very particular
In the selection of only the purest food and the
best made fabrics, give very little thought to the
kind of toilet soap which they use, overlooking
the fact that impurities of soap are readily
absorbed into the pores of the skin, producing
roughness, chapping, and injurious results.
The sale of the CASHMERE BOUQUET Toilet
Soap for the past year exceeded the importations
of all toilet soap 3 from England, France, Ger-
many, Italy, and all other countries combined,
as shown by the ofhoial reports of the United
States Treasury for 1886.
COLGATE and CO.’s large Perfumery business,
situated where the firm first began business, in
New York, enables them to make the most deli-
cate perfume for their Toilet Soaps, and 30 first
awards from foreign and domestic exhibitions
testify to their superiority.
COLGATE and CO. are the oldest and largest
manufacturers of toilet soaps in the United States.
Soaps bearing their name are distinguished by
their attractive appearance, by their soft and
creamy lather, and by the richness and delicacy
of their perfume.
Sold by all Chemists and Dealers in Perfumery.
1
-1
rt\#
&
l lh
r!Lw A
srvnfi? f/
IK
\W
It is said that a Melbourne girl has juafc
put the Earl of Buckinghamshire’s nose consi-
derably out of joint.
Justice A’Becketb, of Victoria, who tried
the seduction case last week, said that either
“darling John” or the sweeb girl who wrote
delicious love-letters, which she swore were to be
read backwards, “had lied, deliberately, con-
sistently, and absolutely."
Officeholders.
The office held by the kidneys is one of import-
ance. They act as nature's sluice-way to carry
off the extra liquids from the system and with
them the impurities both those that are taken
into the stomach and those that are formed in the
blood. Any clogging or inaction of these organs
is therefore important. Dr b six’s bitters ara
nature’s efficient assistant in keeping the k.dr eya
ia good working order, strengthening them, and
inducing healthy action. If you would get well
take DR, BKIX’S BITTERS,
The Chtne.se in Victoria.— On many of the sheep-farms
and sugar plantations, Chinamen are employed to ass'st, and
the faith that the inhabitants of the Flowery Land have in
ihe virtues of Freeman’s Genuine Chlomdyna may be in-
ferred from the fact that most of tne sheep-owners and
planters order one hundred and twenty dozen of Freemans
Chlorodyne at a time for the use of John Chinaman and the
other employes. A gentleman, in writing to Mr Freeman,
eays— ‘I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
curative properties of your Chlorodvne in many diseases
during many years' residence in New Zealand I have given
it repeatedly and always with good effect, both on
Kuropeai s and Celestials, and have never found it fail to
give relief after two or three doses.”—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s "
only Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade
Mark, an Elephant *
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 110
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
Pearls in the Mouth.-White and sound teeth,
healthy gums, and fragrant breath, can only * e obtained by
tne daily use of Rowland's Odonto, or PearlDentbifice.
It eradicates tartar from the 'eeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pearl-like whiteness. Rowlands'
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands' articles
of chemists.*
WICKED FOR CLERGYMEN.
Rev. , Washington, DC , writes: I believe it to be
all wrong and even-wicked for clergymen or other public men
to be led into giving testimonials to quack doctors or vile
t tuffs called medicines, but when a really meritorious article
made of valuable remedies known to all, that all physicians
use ard trust in daily, we should freely commend it. I there-
fore cheerfully and heartily commend Dr. Soule's American
Hon Bitters for the good they have done me and my friends,
firmly believing they have no equal for family use. I will
not be without them.”—” New y ork Baptist Weekly.”
At Warrnambool, the other day, a girl hit a
flying swallow with a tennis-ball and killed it.
From Brisbane Courier, 17feh January:—
RANTED, by a respectable young widow, situation
as housekeeper to widower; no objection to one or
two children. Address A., Post Office, South Brisbane.
We rise to inquire why it is that the dear crea-
tures always put these sweet little things in the
local “ stupid ” paper ?
CURED OF DRINKING.
“ A young friend of mine w-s cured of an insatiable thirst
for liquor, which had so prostrated him that he was unable
i o do any business. He was entirely cured- by the use of
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters It allayed all that burn-
ing thirst; took away the appetite for liquor: made his
nerves steady, and he has remained a sober and steady man
for more than two years, and has no desire to return to his
cups; I know of a number of others that have been cured of
drinking by it.”—From a leading R. R. Official, Chicago, 111.
—“ Times ”
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
destructive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown. Whole-
sale from Mess's Elliott Bros, and E. Prosser & Co.*
Are you suffering from liver disorder, pains in the side or
under the shoulder blades, foul tongue, or biliousness?
Are you suffering from nervous weakness and feel
unfit for your daily duties ? If so go to your chemist for
Dunstonu'h Compound Essence oe Dandelion and
Liver Pills and you will get insta t relief and a speedy
and permanent cure Bead testimonials wrapped with each
bottle, of wonderful cures effected by this medicine.
Dunstone’s Dandelion, 53 per bottle; Liver Pills, Is per
box, of all Druggists. Be certaio to ask for Dunstone's.
Wholesale agents: Flliott Bros.. Ltd., Sydney.
Food for CoNsuMPrrv *s.— Scott's Emulsion of Pure
CodLivir Oil with Hypophosphites of Lime and
Soda, is a most wondeiful food for the Consumptive It
not only gives strength and increases the flesh, but heals
the Irritation of the throat and lungs It is very palatable •
children take it like milk, and in all wasting diseases both
for adults and children it is a marvellous food and medicine.
Any Chemist can supply it at 4i. 61 *
Dr. cell’s (Kidney and Liver) Bitters
Are no “ hit or mi s" compound or old woman’s
mixture They are prepared by a scientific phar-
macist], with a full knowledge of the powers and
virtues of each ingredient ia the class of diseases
which it cures It is purely vegetable, and can-
not harm the youngest child or the most feeble
invalid.
m
ARGEST
n the (jlony
SYDNEY.
28 & 30
BRIDGE STT
WORKS 227 *■ 229 GEORGE STT
BEFORE TAKING.
(from tirw.)
“ A merry heart doebh good like a Medicine.”— Proverbs 17 -c, 22-c.
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZED"IRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
Lin only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Boiy, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilerating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d.. from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direot from the Manufacturer, W, F. CAUNT, the
Pharmaoy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitations. Take no Substitute.
m
AFTER TAKING.
(vbom un.)
T
I T
AGAIN.
A-
Plain reading, but freighted with material,
"^ r ~' - - solid mearing.
Our suooessors have depended largely upon bold
essay and extraordinary enterprise. No firm can
t oldly declare prices unltss they feel thoroughly
that they mean business and are deer mined to
give bargains that make those who reap the ad-
vantages declare promptly and immediately:—
That they are astonished 'lhat they are
pleased. That they are astounded. That they
are gratified,
And can we do it ? Ah ! Can we do it ? Can
aay one else so boldly declare that they can bene-
fit the public. That’s the important part of it.
Well, we can do it. We can benefit the public.
Wg can help them to benefit themselves. And
we recognise this important fact, that we cannot
hope to have the encouraged business that has
been our blessed share unless we solidly, clearly,
End unmistakably give evidence of our ability.
We have proved ourselves eminently superior to
a’l competitors in the many special departments
upon which we have ventured. And we ask—
Who can sell Furniture with us ?
Who can sell Upholstery with us?
Who can sell Bedsteads with us ?
Who can sell Bedding with ns ?
Who can sell Ironmongery with us ?
Who can sell Glassware with us ?
Who can sell Chinaware with us ?
Who can sell Electroplated Ware with ns ?
Who can sell Earthenware with us ?
Who can sell Carpets with us ?
Who can seil Drapery with us ?
Who can sell Underclothing with us ?
Who can sell Corsets and Gloves with us
Who can sell Linens with us?
Who can sell Clothing with us ?
Who can sell Hats with us?
Who can sell Mercery with us ?
Who can sell Gents.’ Underclothing with us?
Who can sell Clothes with us ?
Who can sell Boots with us ?
Who can sell Shoes with us ?
Who can sell Laces with us ?
Who can sell Boys’ Boots with us ?
Who can sell Boys’ Trousers and Vests with us?
Who can sell Youths’ Clothes with us ?
Who can give better value than we ?
And perhaps in this last line the kernel of the
commercial nut may be found centred.
WELD, HERE IS THE SECRET ! - Content with
small profits, knowing that we must sell cheap,
WE ARE BOUND TO DO OUR LEVEL BEST
TO KEEP OURSELVES BEFORE THE
PUBLIC ; and keep before them we will, if the
very heavens should fall.
BEDSTEADS —
When in the public press it is noticed that LAW-
LERS’ have a sale on, then let the Lord help all
essayists for the days of profits are numbered.
Holding 27,000 Beds f eads and Cots in |
stock, there is no firm in this or the old I
world can turn out so many hedsteada of |
a kind es we can.
Last Ootobsr we were deluged with country
customers requesting our bargain parce’s. Tfie
town and suburbs were at it from neon till night.
The nine vans were as busy bees delivering north,
»■ outh, east and west. AND WHY ? Because we
offered bargains like the following IN BED-
i-TKADS : We essayed and submitted immense
Four-post a"d Half tester Tabular Double Bed-
steads, together with wove wire mattress, together
with hair mattress, together with hair bolster,
together with two feather pillows, and we swore
we’d let the lot go astounding as the value is—
we swore we’d let the lot go at £6 12s. 6J., al-
though worth £lO 17s. 6d., the same line 3.
Our immense assortment of bedsteads, the
numerous styles, the various s zee, preclude a
clear statement of lints, but the lot aforesaid
clearly proves our ability to show marvellous
va ue throughout the house. Remember, we do
not choose a claptrap line to endeavour to prove
t alue. We went straight away for one of our
best lines and quoted it at our lowest price.
We would be wanting in our gemresity to
single men were we to omit to quote the follow*
iag extraordinary in.e~ :
Single Bedsteads, eitnor hJ'-*rs e rf rr pos’.
Palliasses for same.
Heavy Flock Mattress for same.
Flook Bolster and Kapok Pillow.
The lot for £2 7a. 61., well worth £2 12s.
This sale is meant to be another of our SPECIAL
THINGS, so that we must touch furniture And
in touching furniture we would quote special
lines :
Chests of Drawers, for instance, 255., 355.,
47e. 6d.
Wardrobes, with glass doors, £5 15a. to £7 15s.
Couches in cretonne, 27s 6d., 355.
Eugene C our hep, in cretonne, 75a , 85a.
Haircloth Couches, 475. 6d., 65s , 75a.
Dlning-tab'e3, 14s. 61.. 20?., 255., 355.
Whilst in Carpets and Floorcloths we say “ facile
princeps’’ yet to back us out in our venturesome
statement we must quote prices. To get Tapestry
Carpets at a low and reasonable price and to give
satisfaction at lj. 61. is one of those things that
few are able to do. We do it. We do it. We do
it. And we can sell Carpets at la. 3d. to 4s. 6d.
a yard.
BOOTS and SHOES. - Nobody likes boots to
wear out in a hurry. A ll are anxious that they
should stand a sole or two at any rate. Everyone
style and finish. To get style and finish
and boots that will wear well you must experi-
ment St. Crispin’ himself might essay with
boots, but unles3 he had worn them himself how
would he succeed ? We experiment upon our
own boots. Employer aad employees try the
different makes with a view to finding oat WHO’S
WHO. And as a result we can now sell Boots and
Shoes that will please and gratify all. We have
Gents’ Boots at Bs. 61. that are worth 12s. 61.
We have Gents’ Shoes at 6s. 9d. that are worth
10s. 6d.
We have Ladles'Shoes at ss. 61,, 6s. lid., Bs.
lid., 10s. 61,
We have Ladies' Boots at 6s. lid., Bs. 6d., 10s
6>d., 163. 61.
We have Youngsters’ Boots and Shoes at all
pricep.
We have Men’s Boots at 16s. 63., worth 25g.
Ladles’ Underclothing demands skill and attend
tlon ; both are possessed and enjoyed at LAW
LERS.
Gloves all styles at all prices. Corsets that will
fit and give satisfaction. Thimbles, and Cotton
and Needles. Prints and Zephyrs, and Mervel-
leux for dresses.
During FEBRUARY an ASTONISHING SALE.
Boy or not as you think fit.
iL A. WLEK.S.
* 609 GKEORGHB STBBEJT


Xx2Q.;p©xta.xit I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
THE OUST Hi "X"
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
BEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to Inform their many patrons and the publio
that, as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th j they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
O
&
ACGORDEONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17/6, 21/.
2 51-, SO/-, 40/-, to 456.
Speciality : Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
it Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
K
{3, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/-, 17/8, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 36/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Laohenal Anglo German ... ... 35/-
„ „ Bteel notes ... ... 50/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
peclalty i Old oopy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
IJ-, 7/6, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-, 80/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality i Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
1/6, 8/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 101.
About 200 different sorts In stock.
Speciality i 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, oomplete in case,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Bole Agents in Australia
vox
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
sokm tm sms,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/6,4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set,
81ngle ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Oliver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh.
Also,
■VERT KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Initar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zither, &c., fee.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the oolonles.
Enquiries attended to by return of post a
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
BTSMBTI
m
5*
JEcaema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
imj
•i*rwr
m
sv
Scrofula on Necfe.
PI M PLEB to SCROFU LA
DISFIGURIN' Q- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion!, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Outicura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers', Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticura Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
K. Towns A Co., New South Wales.
nUTICTJRA RESOLVEN , the new Blood Puri-
\J fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henc#
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases,'Baby Hu*
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies are the only real Blood
! Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
. arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
, table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
• pare by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
3Tor Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
(UuggVts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
iisuiuid. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
$1..)0: Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing- Jc/p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prefarid by tub
(Potter Drug St Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.ja.
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LICHTNER and Co.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
IN calling attention to their extensive stock of Photographic Instruments, Chemicals, and all
necessary appliances for the use of Professional and Amateur Photographers, beg: to Intimate
their intention of giving FREE LESSONS in the Seductive Art to all purchasers of a Photographic
outfit at their warehouse. The services of a competent operator have been secured, and beginners
are now relieved from all anxiety about possible failure. The young are hereby protected from pre-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair.
CsiaDaersts
By all the best makers from £3 upward, according to size and quality.
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
Sla-o-tters
Of every description, including the famed “ GUEBRY,” the beßt all round shutter
in the world.
THE VERGARA. PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
NOVELTIES BY EVERY MAIL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
32 O’CONNELL STREET.
mason brothers,
LIMITS*'
203 to 209 Kent-fitroet,
Sydney,
Gave always in STOCK, for
SALES to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE! BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
■ARTHBNWARB
WINKS, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00,3
Cognao.
T. OATEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
MO M U M ■ K S
In Granite, Marble, and Freeatone,
Iron Tomb Bailing*.
Dnlgni and Ultimate* forwarded on ruin
j, tarmMiiin.
neannHUEnm. wtwward-mwam, drains
WE can recommend the Imperial Halr-Gnt-
ting Saloon aa the beat In Brlabane.
Tobacco and cigars of the beat branda. Addreaa i
Temple Building, Qeorge-atreet, alx doora from
Qaeena-atrett, A, COOPER, **r«rrtr|i»s,
GBD.GBD. GBD.
THIB FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAR 01 PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THB BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
sill persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
SSI, GLARENOB-STREET.
GBD. QBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipmen coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MAOKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Baggy meets every steamer.
I make comfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parker, M.D.
A Book for young and Old men. 200 pages*
bound In cloth, and oontalns over 100 presorip
tlons. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Desorlptlve
■ample free. Those suffering from Nervouß ex-
haustion and Diseases should send at once for this
valuable work. Address! Doctor W. F,
Parker, Put Ofßoe Chamber*, earner Bourke at d
Stmafc*. Melhtmrna. Vie,
EjWiT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE ana FIANQFQRYF
WAREHOUSEMEN.
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O’CONNELL ST REE' S.
LARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the
MOST CELEBRATED MAKERS, NEW-
TON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS Portable, varioti
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LIMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell streets.
IP I'VE POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED
‘ RCOM SUITES.—The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand with
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and two
Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionab’e Early English
designs.—WARDROBE, 4 feet, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel Rail; TOILET TABLE,
with Swing Glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD and Two CANE-SEATED CHAIRS, 16
guineas-
NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
m
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE,
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB,
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS, 6xB,
BxB, 9x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6a. 6d. ; 8 x 8,
93.; 9x 8,9 a. 6d. ; 10 xB, 10s. 6d. ; 12 xB, 12s.
6d. ;12 x 10, 15a. NEWTON and LAMB, Furni-
ture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell streets.
patent
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space*
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
£1 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard
ard Verandah.
Price very low.
NEWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
LAW N and P.A RK SEAT S, 6 feet long.
Rustic Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
ARDLN SEA.TS, 19s. Verandah Chairp.
' INDI iN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.
NEW TON and LAMB.
T> ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from 155.;
Jli and large vaiiety of Chairs, from 12a. 6d.
&c.; special designs, extra quality. Newton and
LAMB, Furniture Warehousemen, SpriDg and'
O’Connell streets.
I
C E CHESTS,,
all sizss,
from 27a.
NEWTON and LAMB;
JgIXCELSIO R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
Various Sizes, from 455.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices.
NEWTON and LAMB, Importers, O'Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
NEWTON and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB.


Dr. Canny, late Surgeon Royal Artillery and H M. 11th
Regiment, L R.C.P.. LM , M.R C S., England Registered
in Great Britain and N.B.W. 61 Wentworth Court Cham
bers, Elizabeth-street (ground floor). Specialist in Disease*
oftheLivir Kidneys, &c. Dr. Canny’s long service in the
Tropic*, 4o has afforded him special experience In the
treatment the above mentioned dlseaie* *
a dve. tising Cheats!!!
Ib has become bo common to begin an article,
in an elegant, interesting style,
Then run ib into some advertisement that we
avoid all such,
“And simply call attention to the merits of Dr.
Foule’s American Hop Bitters in as plain, honest
terms as possible,
“ To induce people
“To give'them one trial , which so proves their
value that they will never use anything else.”
" Tse Remedy so favourably noticed in all the papers,
Religious and secular, is
“ Having a large sale, and supplanting all other medicine.
*' There is no denying the virtues of the Hop plants, and
the proprietors of Dr. Soules’ American Hop Bitters have
shown great shrewdness and ability. * *
" In compounding a medicine whose virtues are so palpable
to every one's observation.
Did She Die ?
“No !
“ She lingered and suffered along, pining away
all the time for years,"
“The doctors doing her no good ; ”
‘ ‘ And at last was cured by this Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters the papers say so much
about.”
“ Indeed ! Indeed ! ”
‘‘How thankful we Bhould be for that medi-
cine.”
A Daughter’s Misery.
“ Eleven years our daughter suffered on a bed
of misery,
“ From a complication of kidney, liver, rheu-
matic trouble, and Nervous debility,
*' Under the care of the best physicians,
“ Who gave her disease various names,
“ But no relief,
“ And now she is restored to us in good health
by as simple a remedy as Dr. Soule's American
Hop Bisters, that we had shunned for years be
fore using it."— The Parents.
Father is Getting Well.
“ My daughter says :
“ How much better father is since he used Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters."
“ He is getting well after his long suffering
from a disease declared incurable.”
“ And we are so glad that he used your
Bitters.”—A Lady of N.Y.
i&TNone genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name
blown on the bottle Beware of all the vile poij
sonous stuff made to imitate the above.
The Referee.
On Saturday next Kemp and Clifford meet
In a sculling match over the N.S.W. champion
course, but we are not going to hold ourselves or
Australia up to outside ridicule by adding that it
is for the Championship of the World. Clifford,
as a sculler, the writer does nob, and never did,
think much of, and if Kemp is up to anything
like alleged form he must win. There is little or no
excitement over the event, “ Our William” having,
if anything, injured his protege by dubbing him the
“ Champion of the World,” when it is so weU
known that the world is fairly bristling with
GOING TO CUT THE PAINTER.
“Mr. Wise is not yet going to resign.” —Daily Paper.
second-class scullers who oould row over the self
—or rather Beach-appointed champion.
* * *
Saturday’s erickeb at Sydney showed that
the Britishers did not over-estimate their ability
to successfully negotiate Turner on a good wicket,
that trundler failing to snare a wicket during the
whole day’s play; M'Shane took the whole of the
oaptured five wickets. Mac 's performance on
such turf was a good one, and in selecting a team
to go to England in March, the Melbourne left-
hander’s claim should not be lightly passed over.
Ulyett, for the first time for years past, showed
his true form, and it looked as if he was really
trying to get runs, an impression not always con-
veyed to the onlookers whilst he is at the wicket.
* • *
It turns out that “ Sergeant Meats, late
Soots Qreya, but now of Melbourne,” is Gunner
Archer, of the N S.W. Permanent Force.
# * *
The greatest joke of the Burke-Foley
fight was not taken up by the dailies. During
several preliminary bouts between lesser lights of
the ring, the pugs, to a man, showed and shed
their blood in the boff, without remonstrance from
the police. When Foley and Burke appeared the
foorce discovered that the interests of mora’ity
required the men to wear guernseys I
* * *
The success of M ‘Shane’s bowling on
Saturday was attributable to the fact that he did
not sacrifice pace for precision, but was content
to bowl medium pace. A like result was achieved
by M'Shane a few seasons back, also againßt an
English team, through adopting the same tactics.
* * *
Mr. A. T. Milson’s 40 tonner, the Era,
on Saturday last continued htr successful career
by securing a leg-in for Col. Gascoigne’s chal-
lenge cup. The Era is a “heeler” without a
doubt, atd Mr. “ Jack’ Want must “ whip the
eat” with a vengeance oyer his experimenting
with a big centreboard. We of Australia know
nothing of big centreboarders, and, as we re-
marked at the time she was laid down, a 40-
tonner is rather a large and expensive craft to
moke trials with.
* * *
The Sydney dead-head contingent are
likely to number considerably less at future big
cricket matches, both as regards “gate ” and free
luncheon. Strange to say, this claBS of people all
seem to come from those who are best able to pay
for their luxuries.
• • *
Still again had those members of the
M.0.C., who were asked to play in the Combined
Match against Lillywhite’s team, business en-
gagements of the utmost importance.
* *
Sculler Mafcterson’s pub. Is so conveniently
situated, just round the corner, you know. The
Nooze man says Neil’s refusal to row somebody
or other is “ firm and charscterislio of Nell.”
* * *
Percy M ‘Donnell, the brilliant bat, has
had much trouble of late. First he lest his
mother, after a few days’ illness. Then his second
eldest brother, who had been an ecclesiastical
student at Lyndhnrst College, Sydney, died of
consumption. This was followed by the sudden
death of hia eldest sister, while the doctor was
writing a prescription for her. Then his father
(formerly Attorney-General of Victoria) was
stricken down by paralysis, and, finally, the other
day, his surviving brother was killed by a tram
accident in Melbourne !
. « •
The A. J. S. Bank has given Turner,
Ferris, and M‘Donnell twelve months’ leave to
enable them to go home to play with the combined
team. Ferris's arm being weak he will probably
not bowl again till he gets to England.
* • *
New chums must have rubbed their eyes
after reading that a Melbourne lumberer was sen-
tenced to six months for ticket-snatching at
Moonee Valley races. In England thousands of
“ brief a ” are snatched every year, bub the victim
who perchance collared the thief wouldn’t be able
to induce a policeman to take him in charge. Or
it he did contrive to pub Mr. Snatcher In the dock
the magistrate would coolly tell proeeoutor that
he was engaged in an illegal transaction and the
law —the almighty Law— couldn’t assist him.
Under the “home” sjs em, welshing and other
branches of racecourse thieving are positively
protected industries. An inner ring, where bets
are boot ed, Is provided for the accommodation of
the nobility and gentry, and the vulgar public must
take care of themselves. But until we get Im-
perial Federation in sport the brief of the humble
Australian backer will remain a thing saored to
himself—not at the mercy of the first greasy
scoundrel who can grab its.
* * *
Naturally enough — as it will appear to
those who have any knowledge of the surround-
ings of English professional pugilism—the so-
called fight between Smith and Kilrain was fol-
lowed by a foul murder. Mr. M‘Neill, who went
over to Boulogne to report this barney for the
London D.T., has been found drowned —his
pockets rifled, and his throat showing Bigns of the
garotte. Ere this appears in print, further par-
ticulars may be furnished respecting this beauti-
ful sequel to a beautiful exhibition, but, whether
or no, it is safe to assume that the * boys”—the
bullet-headed blackguards by whom prize-fighting
has been dragged down to the lowest depths of
iniquity—did poor M'Neill to death If he had
been on the staff of a recognised sport-
ing paper, he would have taken care to
avoid the inevitable fate of any “ mug” who, with
a pound or two in his pocket, trusts himself alone
among the beetled-browed villains comprising 92
per cent, of the attendance at a merry mill. This
energetic special was probably seeking material
for “copy” among the “ talent,” when they quietly
choked him and flung his body into the water.
Of late the London papers have been endeavouring
to boom the noble art of self-defence. M‘Neill’s
murder ought to show said papers what a miser-
able thing they have taken up, and how miser-
able is their chance of ever restoring it to the
position it held in the days of Tom Cribb. The
Bulletin has stated, more than once, that a
bare-knuckles fight in Australia is quite a
drawing-room entertainment as compared
with the bestiality of the pure British
article. The present w. iter once witnessed
what was termed a quiet little tum-up on
the banks of the Thames. A yoang lord
chartered a steamer to csrry us to the rendezvous,
and provided a £5O cheque to be taken by the
victor. The fight took place at i in the morning,
under most select conditions for an affair of thB
kind. And, by Heaven ! when this scribe calls
to remembrance the faces that grinned round
the ropes, the little incidental fights that cropped
up as the onlookers’ blood got heated, and the
ugly scrimmage following the throwing up of the
sponge, he marvels that he lives to tell the tale.
The young lord wasn’t drowned, because he had
hired a body-guard of old bruisers to be paid when
they brought him safely back to town.
* * *
The so-called combined team had a bit of
bad luck as regards weather during their recent
match against Lillywhite’s lot, when the Britishers
won by five wiokets and a run, but the writer
does not think the rain made any difference In the
result of the match, and that, all things being
equal aa regards weather, the Britishers ar6 far
and away the better team. A combined eleven
from the two British lots should prove a hard nut
to crack, but good as they look on paper it would
take them all their time to put under a genuine
co'onlal combination, consisting of, say, Turner,
Ferris, M‘Donnell, Moses, M'Shane, Blackham,
Jones, Brace, Trumb’e Horan, and Garrett.
* * *
M‘Donnell has won the toss wi'li Smith
three times in succession. He put the British era
in for the fi st match and put N.SW. in for the
last two. The odds are 7to 1 against pulling off
a triple event with the coin.
. * *
Mr. Griffith, of Melbourne D.T., repre-
sented that parson-bossed paper at Sydney Cen-
tennial. Griffith is own k full nephew of Sir
Samuel, and his father runs a suburban paper In
Fitzroy. The son and nephew is a disciple of
“ Mick” Nathan, is great with the gloves, and
has given specimens of his science at Nathan’s
rooms in the presence of many admiring friends.
• * *
Larry Foley was bom on the Turon, in
the year of the great gold discoveries in that rich
district.
The individual, who, a couple of years ago,
was the leviathan of the N.Z. betting ring, has
just filed his schedule. Ever since Drake pulled
off the grand coup two years ago by winning the
N, Z. Cup with Spade Guinea, the books of Maori*
land have more or less bsen working for him.
* * *
Amongst the few permanent “ postings ”
at the Victorian Club are the names of three New
Zealanders, and one of them is a member of Par
llanaent. Before this “ i epperesentative ” was
elected, all members of Parliament had the entree
to tbe Wellington Club, but the rule has been
annulled on acoount of this one black sheep.
* * •
‘ ‘ Pendragon, ’ in London R efer ee, laughs at
the Smith-Kilrain figh\ He sajs the men did
not once in a dozen rounds stand up at d Bpar, bu’
“ hugged and worried each other like two great
girls cut of a workhouse.” He adds that it was
only by the mercy of Providence, the descent of
night, and superior seconding thatKilrain did not
beat Smith—the most bepuffed of roley-poley
pugilists and cheapest of cheap champions.
PARALYSIS AND INSANITY.
Human existence is no longer a measured
march, but a rapid race. It leaves little lime for
rest and none for reflection. Our minds and
bodies are like so many engines, wi'hthe furnaces
always alight and the machinery always working
under high pressure. Now and then it breaks
down, and, as we hear of this or that parson bei* g
carried off by appoplexy, or disabled by paralysis,
we pause for a mamant to utter some express on
at compassion or sorrow, and then resume the
wild gallop in whioh he participated, and by
which he suffered. Our very recreations belie
the epithet They are pursued with such energy
that they become very hard work, Mven the
“ duties of society” per;ormsd by women, whose
circumstances exempt them from the necessity of
makiog other exertions, are laborious in the
extreme, and the wear and tear of fashionable
life Is responsible for a disease— neurosis— whioh
was unknown in former times. Wor<e than all,
insanity is rapidly on the increase, especially in
this colony, as shown by Mr Hayter’s Year Book,
from which we take the following flguroß : —ln
1861 there was one lunatic in every 819 persons ;
In 1871 there was one in every 392 persons; in 1881
there was one in every 304 persons. Now, sus
tained mental excitement and tension must be
reckoned among the predisposing causes of lunacy,
and the stages by which it is arrived at are thus
described by Dr. Roose: —Want of tone, sleepless-
ness, indigestion, and loss of appetite, derange-
ment of the heart, and hypochondriasis. Wnen
this has been reached, he observes, “the border
lands of insanity are within measurable distance,
even if they have not already been reached." But
what are we to do? says one. We reply, live
more leisurely, and aid tired nature with Warner’s
safe service. No one can ba well who does not
enjoy sound sleep Warnar’s safe nervine is not
a narcotio, it is as harmless as water, and will, if
you are suffering from nervousness, he *dache,
et~., do you a vast amount of good. Mrs. A.
Toffo, of Stounton Hill, Townsville, (Q ), says
“ For the past four years during the hot season I
suffered greatly witn giddiness, violent throbbing
in the head, and down the sp;ne, causing great
weakness and irritation in the system. About
three months ago, when suffering severely, I took
Warner’s safe nervine, in teaspoonful doses every
two hours, in half a wineglassful of water, and
found immediate relief. I can safely say that it
is the most simple, and, at the same time, the
most powerful remedy for soothing all nervous
ailments I know of" Mrs. Tofft’s experience is
but the experience of hundreds of others. If jou
are nervous and sleepless, and continually grow-
ing worse, unless aided to health, you are on the
sure road to paralysis, or the mad-house. Calmly
think over tbis matter, and deolde at once to
“ right about wheel," and pursue the road to re-
newed health and strength. *


‘IXJHUS ‘IEBHIS KBHOXfi 111
*«xsrvHOH§rM
'msLßHonnom
fc oo v 9&iw ‘aros m mvwtm
IRONMONGERS
5
X
o
o.
4
%
H
b
6 s
SPECIALITIES
Btfb' laving Machine, labettn Fln-sna! Pains, Mbs Oartn Lighi
ELECTROPLATED WARS, CUTLER*, TOOLS,
■AI COOKIES STOVES S-LEONIS FLETCHER S, HAMS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WABHIM6 MAOHIMBS, SsC„ ft*
I>CTI*rSm*ON’E2’S
COMPOUND
ESSENCE OP DANDELION
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
[liigtstisß, Liver ml Kiiity Disoriers,
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
LIVER PILLS act as a vaiuable aperient and lonic in conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, Is. per
Box. Of all Chemists.
Wholesale Agents* Messrs ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
ftowloncl£,
MaeaA&arOil
ti&s .. i_,.i.iriHr
tut* been known for nearly 100 years as the best
feke haman hair; it is warranted free from
restorers are composed and whifch
best *:»«! aafetol y.wo < cx , lesOurci Loauuner Ol
any lead or mineral mpedientß, of YiJ ICh and
;h ruin the health (vide Medical papers),
‘.wtTnthS hottest climates a®d has a delicate and acuif ff. an’d the
falling off or turning grey, SS »d moustaches:
can also be had COLOUR
Which, after great time and trouble, has been especially > )r ®!’ f * r Sd fcfwfies equal lo* fcrar small
children and fair or grey-Wed adult.. Sizes 3s. 6d. ; Ts.; family bottles, equal to tout mu»
10s. 6d.; and double that size, 21».
ROWLANDS’ KALYDQR is a healing and refreshing fTnTmn'Smesl
the face, hands and anna; it eradicates freckles, tan, roubam. etaseiy. a j Ucat< ,
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc,, and produces a beautum
complexion, m _ _ s __
ROWLANDS' ODOrTO whitens the teeth, prevents «jd irrests decay^
(Bmiiar names-
Wholesale and »**»!! A*ents—Nttnw nnw., and E. Pbossbo"* Co., Syflaei
OOTS
OQTS
T. WILLIAMS k GO.,
lanrcsßXßEta or
British A Voxiiftß Boots & Shois ;
Bl*o MiunHtMftnnn of
%BB ffIXBRB QUAMBX OB OOODB IK VHSi ABOVB £iIKBS,
5878 and 412 Qeor£e-*t., Sydney.
wors
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
Nee
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
Mth., b ® *Otmd ln " LIGHT AND
* ,B Ml# »peofly cure of Nes-vouß De»
Sk * **fl Kindred. Diseases, &o. A copy of this
***kia» b# **® s free > «ealed» tor six penny
’ Addreii-
S. WAED & 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
TO Hunter■street, Sydney.
SINUINK SODA WATER
htteEb
kM Water Go.,
I# ° I IS JROBI ■ **•*■• BKDIIM,
*T»Heot Parity (guaranteed,
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
RKADY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
A Bleating in every Family
Holloways pills and ointment,
There ti not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of the*e grand medicine* have not been
reoognised by thouiand* of sufferer*.
In ail the ordinary ailment* of humanity their beneficent
action i« at once recognited.
Fullest direction* are aupplied for their use in every di«eau.
IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 Oxvokd-si., London.
4MT Purohassers ihonld look to the Label on the Boxes and
Fot*. If the address i* not SSI Oxford-street London, this
are sDurlous.
Te» bank of nkw sealand,
Swum Bbanobss I
81 PITT-STREET, and SSB GKORGBSTREET.
Paid-up Capital ~ ~ 81,000,000
Reserve fund ~ .► 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the UNITED STATUS of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
cial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
SEEOHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
P I LLSa
are admitted toy thou-
sands to to# worth »
©nines a Bex for bilious
said nervous disorders,
such a* wind and pain
ia the stomach, sick
headache, gidaiassei,'
fnlness and swelling
altar meals, dixxme««
and drowsiness, v.-M
ehills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short
ness of breath, ecstiv*-
mess,scurry, blotch®* ok
frightful drsamstaand aw
aervon* and trembUpß
sensations, Ac. Ttaefbrrt
dose will jriT» relief te
aeswrte*, This la s» fusion,, for they
fe»»» Ift i» thousands of eases. mmey «o%w ?
s**tiaeetly invited to try one box of »«•» myis.- **>»
stsay wfii he aeteowisdged to to#
WORTH A GUINEA A ' BOX
aww ®»»aies of ail age# these
m * l»W doses of them carry off all green humours;,
«NU all obstructions, and bring about ail that, m
smmm feed, No female should be without them. Teer*
fg »» medicine to he found to equal BEJSCHAM'Ifi ■
38C&B for removing any obstruction or irregularity
at toe system. If taken according to the dirarowv--*
gfannp mih each box they will soon rectors tww&w «•••
sdl as@s to sound and robust health,
Itor * weak stomach, impaired dijEMt&uA itod
ilsarilers of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,*’ and <s
few dose# will be found to work wonder* upon the
Mart important organs of the human maehiit®, They
e&engtben the whole muscular system, restore jfcs
complexion, bring back the Steen edge
wmaHte, and arouse into action with the BQSSBtn
«f health the whole physical energy of the taw,
fr*»«. These are “FACTS ” admitted toy thousand*
embracing all classes of society; and am ■■s to*
toast guarantees to the nervous and dehtlftatod t*„
Bitoiam’i Pills have the largest sale of '•■ ■■?
medicine in the world,
miOHAM’S MAGIC COtTGB SflhU
Am a remedy for Coughs in general, Astomisj ItifS
«J«y m Breathing, Shortness of Breath, T%fitaeiei*
«nd "Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., toes#
stand unrivalled; and any one labouring tuodei
say of the above complaints need only try One Bos
6@"prove that they are the best ever offered to ths
»'M© for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
ffear*®ness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
mmMy remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
m breathing which nightly deprive ths .patient of rest,
Wj©y give almost instant relief and comfort to theft#
foisted with the above distressing and, whan rag-
tooted* dangerous complaints. Let any person troubles
wish any of the above complaints give
®i®U««P3xi<s a trial.
The moet violent Cough will' to * «M *tta* a*
»wwved.
Ottpuar.—The public »:,-*» e quested to notto*
■Be word* “ BexoKUf’o r ■ St. Helena, ** are on * ;->■
Government Stamp t-il -; to each box of to* R- =
M a@t ©». they are a fox-gery.
'Stepsared. only and sold wholes*!* ana iwum •:-*
IHto proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, ift, Helena,
S#nB«shJre, England, in boxes at I®. lfdL and Sa» M
jwfos- Sold toy all Draggists and Btosml lWedtaw*
ww» ** throughout toe wtsaies. . J
«iy«iQftl<»n» *»» .arltew «w®» mw- #»;
Gemmerciaf Hotel, fiympie, Queensland.
THE above Is one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the oolony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and'Cold Baths.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ENGLISH PERFU 1 RV
Three <>m.n Minus
PARIS, IB7B, OALCUTI A. 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence ol quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOTJGUET
ESS. BOUQUET
TREVOL
WOOD VIOLET
CHYPKE
and other well-known Perfumes are nn
equalled tor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOILETTE DE IGNORES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and aofteningthe
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
*. Trade Mark—“ White ltose” on“ Golden
Kn. Lyre.” a
w
E CAN E E C O M t M E N D
B_ BTXG-EIISrEPS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the most central and well appointed [of any In
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisite#.
Not® the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
tJfASONIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, ROCK-
iJL HAMPTON.-T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings!—The “Western Cham*
don" says! “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
faabnlo to my western friends.'
FITZROY 1 BOTBX.,
'BAST STREET, ROCKAMPTON,
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY MOTEL,
Plunge irnd Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation,
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, BOULBURN.N.S.W.
MTUKST CLASa accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting room#,
a npla rooms. JAMES SIMOJHB. Proprietor,
Guinness' Extra Stout
FIRST QUALITY,
BASSB’ FALK ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS IS tfeS
mmmujk ad unra&jr Buntim.
LONDON.
SSjr Special
WHOLESALE AGENTS
% BALGHIN* JOHNSTON £ C 0
r mnwatf Chambers, Road’UiftL Sydrey,
G, &TEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c
COOPERAGE
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and. Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
J, CRAMP, Proprietor (Sate of RockamgtOft^
CONDUCTED on the same principle aa the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A rery
large Billiard Room,
Prices as follows I—6B. per diem, All meals la. 6d,
%
ASfHIM.BRONCmTIS. COUGHS
p
u
t
\
$
tor INFANTS and INVALIDS
Has an enormous so >« In England,
and is bow being Introduced late ttia
Colonies
Every Storekeeper should g#< a, supply r
as every wise mother will certainly!
use It.
£>H. RIDGE’S HOY AC FOOD MILLS,*.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
manufacturing hatters
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
*ad »tt queen street, buis'-jawe,
OHRIBTIB’S
QUEENSLAND EMPLOYMENT ABENBY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched lor.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable'la*
formation.
79 Ellzabeth-street,
BRISBANE.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
MUffiHIVE HOUSE.
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEOROE STREETS.
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
MARSHALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
T*ade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE."
M
ARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Bold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—-Prloe 1/6,
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Stoniest. N.B.W, i London. England,


ovyjjjfi
*OYALJSWii|
A
5
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
mlDns, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
east, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
iiem lighter, sweeter, and more paiatable and
rholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
s caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
ercentage of Its most nutritive elements, making
be flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
he Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
iy dyspeptics, with rapunity. Maintains Its full
rength In any olimate, any length of time. Kn-
td by the leading physicians and ***£“{2tea
m erica and adopted for use by the United States
SSiSeS, Guaranteed absolutely Piue and
bolesome. Sold only in tins. Ro^
3WDXSK Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A.
rade supplied by & Co.,
p. TmAWs,x*LJLi*f,
WHLOBSALH AND RETAIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS 1—
8 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Bom
1 Bottle Port Wine
8 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe's Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes' Rum
1 Bottle rid Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Packed and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf In the City, on receipt of AS.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELEOt"bAR, 780 George-strebi.
WHOLESALE AND RET AIITsiNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
XSTETW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORE STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
lE-W HUB®
For Artistic Posing and
combining softness and briui»»w»
Photograph# of
GHARLEMONT h **
ROYAL AROAD*.,
STAND PRE-EMIIOGNTIiYAIgg^
BO THOU AND DO LIKfWIS 1
420001
SUMMER, with Its heat, dust a±00&
effects, is onus, and one of tbegre* r eft***7.
may enjoyfis a delightfully cool a , .jjjg* |iIJ
h, made more luxurious by ®e
la <( Qae ffnam QVi am non. 1 * Follow s
VBNI. VWI WO*.
little Sea Foam snampoo. * ~«d Wfl,
and you will find It a most beneficial P*
giving adjunct to the toilet. It **** .
Hair, Scalp, and Skin, and leave theca ( j m
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm* 00
head, and has the endorsement °*,J££| J/0
medical anthorlties. The words nn (n*Bfi
Shampoo” are registered, and anyo" .. o"
Imitation of same will be P roseo „ fL-mill# **l
extent of the law. Sold by » s g ft **,
dealers In toilet articles at the low IP
shilling per packet. Please try one pac*™
will never regret It
THEATRE ROYAL
kockhampto*.
- „ Jjf p
THE above la the only JSS H
Rockhampton for holding w
other Entertainments, and can be ■»»—
any term upon application to __ «.»«*, .<
CHARLES ***>*
The Wonder of tho
COLEMAN and Sons,
awarded First Prise at the Adel Py
lion for their PURE VOLATILE o*
ML. The only known cure for
affections of the chest. We have m ptw.
lestimonials than any medicine before j4#y,
rhis Is a genuine artiole. Posted to t
>n receipt of stamps. Prioe, Is*
Agents, HofTnung & Co. j Elliott Bros*
T a. «^-^-coo*xij"3^T ,r !ir ib*
«T>Txrrrmtt OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. ADDRESS CARDS PRINTED OR ENGRAVED, ALSO BALL PROGRAMMES, MEMORIAM CARDS, &°*
PRINTING OF EVEKx MUSIO AND BOOKS BOUND CHEAPLY AND STRONGLY.
»-SEND FOR CIRCULARS OF TYPOGRAPH AND BEBRYGRAPH COPYING PROCESSES.
MUSlO—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, and Part Music. New Catalogue, Free on Application.
WILLIAM BULLARD. 34a GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN
A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURKRS Of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead. Boelter, are,
..... w.ii Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Ooppersmlthlng, Blackimlthlns. Plumbing,
OakStlM TankandGlrder Building, Kleotrio and Pnsnmatio BeU-ltting, of every description.
«nm TON'S "FLUSH" “ VALVB," and “FAN" OLOSBTS, " VACUUM" WATBB>
BOULTONS FLUoR, \yxSTR, PRBVHNTERB, fco.
■ole Agents for Ferity Bros., Patent AfigjoFeUorSjfcfcnnst Van Cowls. Mas Fires. Mentors.
BON ACCORD WORKS,TaND 9 MACQUARffi-PLACE,
SYDNEY,
FUIX FAKHOOAAM AWD Pnion OM AmiOAIIOM.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
60'
130 OOLLINS-STREBT, WEST.
Melbourne.
91 FITTBTREET,
Sydney.
BREWERS and Crated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Ol%
making. Dr. Grief endorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorff s Bohemia®
Dr. GrlefendorfTs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorffs Quinine Wine. Utica and I#
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and other sorts. Lignozote
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, SaooharometerS, 01™
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ale, txur
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &o. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of
“ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE
TRADE REVIEW."
AND
Also
"THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE.
BEACON SFEELD .HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melboubne.
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager,
SAUCE
AUC
In consequence ./ Matins ./ THE
SA UCK which ere calculated u decern the FUhhc, Lice end A emm
have to reques, the! Purchasen m that the Zah-l m mry Mttt
bears their Signature thus-**
without which m mu of the original WORCESTERSffIKM
SA UCE f is genuine .
Act for LEA and RERIHS oSS 3
grocer, he
Wholesale Ageata i Montejtioke Joseph & 00., s David Cohen & Co.,
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
WAY BE OBTAINED SM LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE Cl
r£lo JOBBING PRINTERS, fco.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“ Bulletin" Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.
NOTICE.
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoint
Office, Pitt-street. Apply,
w
: " -a ; VISITORS TO SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF t
■ »irntni>Q t iioi-o Oriera-slasses, Optical, Mathematical, Scientific, and Surveying Gooda, also the unrivalled Workshops, in full swing, where the manufacture
aU these Go™ s is Carried on the constant and personal supervision of the*Proprietor. Come one, come all, to 334 George-street.
T. IF. -WIESBUEEr 334: _ GKS©ZRGhE STEEE^'
WIESENER, WIESENER, WIESENER, WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTIOaN.
