

%
TAILORING COMPANY,
er
SYDNEY ARCADE, GEORGE STREET
1 PHENOMENAL SUCCESS !
Astonish Everyone !
and AMERICAN TAILORING COMPANY have BRANCHES nearly
all over the World !
* 50s. SUITS & $3 PANTS
% iixe tla.© Tallc cf S3rd.aa.e3r I
Leave Your Measure EARLY, so as not to be Disappointed.
SIX EMINENT CUTTERS CONSTANTLY EMPLOYED !
'ing Company in existence have earned such a World-wide Reputation as the
& American!
and Inspect the Largest and most Varied Stock in Sydney of
gjffEsi of 'amm a»i mum iteeis.
3?a,tteraa.s eiaa-d. Self-I v £ea,s _ a.xeaaa.eaa.t CHa-a-xt-
ana Norman McLennan - Managing Directors.
e Ph
e
es
London, New York, Victoria, Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE—
INGHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
ARD MAN BROS.
m
IV7FTIM
Niliß aGTiO R S
GoitotHSrtvp/
AMO
tfUACU ft
fiff/NfPS
Ittfc# 6rnc£i factory, mwtqwn
BRANCH. CEORCE SI SYOHEY
Waverley Hotel,
CJOLLINS-PLAOE, OOLLINS-STKEKT EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Imfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Bitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 613
MRS. M. OOLEB, Proprietress.
CO
A
TO
*SONS
IXSO
❖
*
a
v>
r »
S3©
oKC
\?0&V
CD
Q
Mm
DIXSONS
MASON BROTHERS,
Limited,
268 to 269 Kent-etareet,
Sydney, wr*’
Hare always In STOCK J for
HAT.H! to the TRADE and
WHOLBSALK BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
B A R T H B N: W B.
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognao.
J. T. GAYBNS
Sohnapps and Geneva.
A, MELVIN and SONS
Bdlnbnrsrh P»l» Ala
MOtJLTON’S FAIN PAINt
CURES AkL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, fee.,
end taken Internally cores DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all. other
Internal aches and pains.
sold ii>eirywt»«rp
Mi m
1 t flOUffoM, sou MOPRitTOi,
A.ND BVDXEV;
PAINT
W
•ffice.
ANTED, Flies of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
"Business*? Announcements
The remington type-writer.
Km
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing muoh falter
than expert pen-men, ana condensing matter to leu than
one-half the ipaoe oooupied by pen writing. Beautiful
ooples may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents, t ®“ : »
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kftnb-street).
T> M. RILEY
(late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
43 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and inoendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Viotoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
. globe, he Is in a position to oonduot ail Inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
FREE
PRESCRIPTION** are bo
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address —
8. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
B CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(Prom Paris)
Ladles’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
An the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK,
french and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
QXTHiEixsrsr J -A.isriD c ,
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
A SOVEREIGN' REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Doloreux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why Buffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure In a few days 1
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
Thlß Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 Geortre-street, only.:
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir
o
s
IRONMONGERS
y 5 12 x
<r>
Vl»v\a’ RewYiig, IftaxstainA, AsYuraVvya FVrii-Ywmil. YaYbY., VXXiv* \y«vr\\vvs\ \AsCa\
WAB.K, OTJTUtKI, TOOlii,
SAB COOKING BTOVK9 i —LKONIB FUETCHBiW S JUANS 8c 'WAUnSWB,
BRADFORD'S WASHIRO M A CHINKS, Bco., Bco.
imiuu nisi row
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR
yeast-
BHEAD, TEA-CAKES, PAST***'
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND ’
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Toast
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THKfI SEA.
£6"
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
p O
SOLD IN TINS AT od. THE H AL=_
it*
s*
jlcitm* on Sctlp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
VJf
i-K
PIMPLES to SCRO
TTkIBMGTTRING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
jLTtion., Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
Soathaomc Sore*, and every specie* oi Itching,
a*aly. Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulou*, and Syphi-
lis Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
StO*s of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Outicuka Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Baternally, and Outicura and Cuticuba Soap, the
Oieat Skin Cure* and Beautifler*, externally.
Htehinff and Burning Skin Diseases,
Qaker*’, Barber*’, Grocer*’, Washerwoman’* Itch,
Etching Pile*, and Delicate Irritation* peculiar
OS both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
With Outioura Soap and a single application of
Outiouka, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
■Sally, with three do*e* of Cutiouka Resolvent,
Will *peedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
□•alp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A. Magnificent Popular: Work on the Skin,
CTith Colored Plate*, i* wrapped about the Rb-
OOLVENT. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
Repeat thi* story: I have been a terrible sufferer
2#r years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Qwve been obliged to shun puplic place* by reason
of my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy
oieians; have spent hundred* of dollars, and got
ao relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies.
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
M pure a* a child’*. Send for our *ixty-four page
fetok, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases,”
Australian Consignees,,
%. Towns A Co., Hew South Wales
■net
Cuticura, the Great B* 1 ??-,
Jelly for external use), h"
Inflammation, clears the I
Sores, and Dandruff, destroy
heals Ulcers, Sores, and
stores the Bair, anc J u
Outicura Soap an “ n
and Toilet Re"" I*'*" 1 *'*"- nreP t
indispensable :
mors, Skin Bleminxicn, - -,
burn, and Bough, Chappy
Cnticura Remedies
Purifiers and Skin Beautifle j
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any d*
table poison whatsoever- //,,<
pure by the Analytical C®
Massachusetts.
Fox Sal. by all retail
CUugg’sts throughout Auetra pC r
Zealand. Cuticcra, 60 e®° eU t«i Xi<r
$1.00: Outicura Soar, f &
ino Joap, 15 cents; Cutic
Iper bottle.
i Potter Or«c 4k ChemB 1 *
FALLON'S GEORGE HOTEIg^
promptly attended to.
. charge.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE
J. J. FALLON.


The Bulletin
'Mm*
SATURDAY, JULY 7, ISBB.
Price, 6d,
VS «/
'J’V
r tfi >W j f
■V* 1
ri
" i . > i
T/mT/Z^
; >/" ' " '
\ I
v - V\ j
\\ ***)
*s*
'H/C
' i
vS *
" /Js <*->.7 tf-P letop+
hk <va*V as a.*,
jj) Tf'C”* —«-
J)a.p<ly ipfport.Cjbo.ys7pa.pOpa^
K * P
L
4,. / i '-Aytf
V*J
XX3 r
V ®r %^‘,
kVftf
The Murray River Dispute—and Other Things.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• ••• *1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JULY 7, 1888.
The Dead Emperor and the Young
Democracy.
“ Low laughed the statesman as he read,
While with a smile he bade them note
IIow freemen’s hearts for monarohs bled
In lands remote.
‘ So,’ with a sneer old B'stnarck said,
‘ The world at last has lived to hear
Young Freedom weep with downcast head
On Kingcraft's bier.’ ”
—Kenxkth Mack ay.*
The Emperor Frederick of Germany is
dead. For the customary nine days his
faded name has been on every man’s tongue.
The usual expressions of regret have been
phrased and the unvarying prnan over defunct
“ greatness ” has been sung ; and then came
the funeral, and the diplomatic woe, a news-
paper paragraph, and oblivion. The Em-
peror Frederick is now no more than a
name, a * pallid shadow of the “ might
have been.” The wheels of Time have made
a revolution, and we have nothing but the
actual “ was.” Governmental grief has
subsided, the departments have dotted their
suits of sable ; bureaucracy no longer weeps
with the decent decorum of international
sympathy. Documentary regret and tele-
graphic condolence have ceased from troub-
ling and an Emperor is at rest.
• * *
Amongst the blatant and offensive bom-
bast trailed in the wake of the Kaiser’s
funeral car, New South Wales contributed
some verbal drapery and dragged once again
in the dust the toga of Cicero, specked and
spotted with the bad taste and meretricious
verbiage of the colonial politician. Young
Democracy donned its weeping weeds and
lifted its voice at the tomb of a pre-ordained
tyrant. True to our traditions and our iron-
ruled past, we are ever ready to gather
round gilded grief and mingle our tears with
those of ermined woe. A king seldom wants
flatterers, even beside the cottin, and as the
sycophant will laugh loudly with simulated
guffaw at the princely jest, so will he wail
with piercing simulated cry at the princely
note of suffering. And in this alleged demo-
cratic country we have ever on hand a class
whose sympathies are on tap when the fates
of those they are pleased to term “great”
are in any way jeopardised. When a
potentate breathes, they tremble ; when he
dies, they weep. They seize each and every
occasion that affords an opportunity of
making what they are pleased to designate
as “feeling remarks.” Their imagination
kindles only when the Pommery sparkles,
and their patriotism culminates in
a post prandial effusion of brag in-
flected by compliment. True greatness
seldom, if ever, engages their attention or
evokes a single tribute of admiration. Their
time is exclusively occupied in greasing the
well-fed and fattened porker, and banqueting
the man who surfeits with a superfluity of
rich fare. They, mayhap, chant the song of
Democracy, but like Gambetta,— who, when
he became a ruler, bathed in a silver bath—
their hearts go forth to the givers of the best
dinners and the wearers of the most sumptu-
ous apparel. The people who knelt at the
bier of Frederick but recently knelt at the
bier of William, the unequivocal despot, and
erstwhile commemorated the Jubilee of a dis-
tant Queen by speeches in which those
politically opposed to her were denounced as
the scum of the earth, threatened with a
“ whiff of grape,” and recommended to be
peremptorily “stamped out.” All this
makes men suspicious, and to doubt much
whether it is over Frederick the man, or
Frederick the Emperor, that the everlast-
ing sympathisers with everything that wears
a dia-’em (or a red nose, a bell topper and a
gold watch chain), are at present shedding
tears of anguish and regret.
* f
When the French nation mourned for
Thiers, the people of the young Australian
nation did not consider it incumbent upon
them to forward letters cf condolence, simply
because there are no Tribunes of the people
in this southern land. There are, however,
Emperors of Botany Bay, who fancy their
thrones stand on a level with their brother-
ruler of Germany, and who with the mock-
heroic air of a boot-black who has donned
the purple of Cyesar, imagine their burlesque
garb to confer all the functions of regality.
The “people of New South Wales’’bewail the
demise of Frederick as “an irreparable
loss to the cause of freedom and human pro-
gress,” simply because some of them fondly
think that the demise of their own official
selves also would set the clock of the world
back an age or so. Frederick belonged to
a system founded on human degradation—a
system congenial to the tast9 and aspirations
of the effete survivals of a past age who
never appear to be more fitly fulfilling the
end of their being than when they are on
knees in the mud, grovelling before
tome regal fetich. They make the mistake of
considering everything that is large to be
also great. Their gauge of greatness is com-
prised in a yard-stick and a weigh-biidge.
Their ideal of excellence is enclosed in girth-
measurement, and their sentiments find ex-
pression in a treatise on weights and
measures.
• • •
These worshippers of the order of things
that exist are bred in a condition of society
in which a man stands bareheaded in the
presence of the squire and people are re-
warded instead of being kicked for their sub-
serviency. Nay, a social condition in which
kicks are taken in payment for services with
gratitude, and the humble retainer trembles
before his fellow who boasts a verbal distinc-
tion in the paltry voicing of his name. The
official button on the uniform is of potency
to conjure with in the sycophantic• circle
which accepts “greatness ” as a concomitant
of genealogy or a. messmate of ceremonial.
These fossils of the past belong to a period
wlrch based its authority on the order of the
day arbitrarily phrased by the commandant
of a convict settlement, and they are only
filling their stage-parts when they genuflect
before conventionally constituted authority.
But we had hoped for something better from
the New South Wales Parliament, a represen-
tative gathering of the elected of an ostensible
Democracy. The issue si lows, however, that
either the present Legidative Assembly is
utterly at variance with the people it claims
to represent, or else that all the late National-
istic sentiment is but the shadow of a sound,
and Hie echo of a far-off vision with no solid
basis cf strength or of meaning. It must be
remembered that it is the Emperor and not
the hero, the sage, the man, that is recog-
nised. The entire proceedings strongly em-
phasise this. In the exordium thereof
much sorrow is poured out at the feet of the
Queen for various bereavements she has in
her lifetime experienced, as though regality
should be exalted high above all common
griefs and troubles, and tears should be the
portion only of those who hunger in slums
and cellars and not of those who luxuriate in
gilded palaces—this preface clearly points the
application of the condolence.
* * *
Three men stood up in their places in the
New South Wales Parliament to oppose the
degradation of a young Democracy joining
the chorus of paid and interested wailtrs
over the dead body of one who wa?, after all
can be said for him, the sign in the flesh of a
terrible despotism. Three men ventured to
question whether “ the cause of human pro-
gress” was of so diaphanous a character as to
be blown onward somewhat by an Imperial
breath. Three men ! This is your average
New South Wales ; sixty to three in your
Parliament ; over 950,000 to less than 50,000
within your sycophantic boundaries. No
word do we raise against the Emperor who
has just laid aside his sceptre He was a
good man, with a generous and kindly
nature, but —he was an Emperor. This is
enough for a free people. A man cannot
sincerely love a bad woman without partak-
ing somewhat of her badness. The receiver
is held in some countries to be as guilty
as the thief. The ice around Courts is
thin, and should be placarded “Danger-
ous !” The very existence of a Democracy
is a protest against the monarchical in-
stitution, and if we really mean this we
should be sorry to see a good King rule any
nation ; for his just administration only em-
bastions the position for a bad one—and every
King is prim a facie a bad one from the
Democratic standpoint. “ The cause of
human progress ” is fought for by the stars
in their courses. The consummation of
liberty will come when the world is ready
for P; not one-thousandth of a second sooner.
The wh-els of time cannot be levered along
by ai y prince who tvrannis(s in the name of
Freedom. Everything man wants will be
accomplished in the slow process of evolu-
tion, and if the King cannot hasten the ad-
vent of the day of Universal Jubilee, neither
can he put it off. A nation is just as well
governed as it deserves to be, and where re-
pression is greatest there also is greatest
the protest against it. To paraphrase the words
of Alphonse Karr, a despotism is a govern-
ment usually tempered by dynamite. The dead
Emperor, Fritz, could no more have jogged on
the wheels of “ human progress” in Germany
than Parkes can keep them back in New
South Wales. The Emperor’s death has
simply afforded the quidnuncs of stagnation
in the alleged “ mother colony ” an oppor-
tunity for a sentimental grovel, and they
have performed the ceremony with their cus-
tomary crassness of ideal vision and never-
varying infelicity.
* * •
We can apprecia f e and admire the simple,
manly virtues of the dead Frederick. In
this we give not place to the sycophantic
grovellers at the mausoleum of Empire. We
do, however, deny his right to be styled
“great,” and we question the fitness of
young Democracy to stand cap in hand be-
fore the death-bed of any King. We scour
the notion of “ freedom’s irreparable loss,
and we totally discredit the idea that the
ability of the deceased Emperor cmld have
advanced the cause of “human progress”
one jot or tittle. The very liberal sympa-
thies he cherished, were it possible for them
to have taken form in action, w mid have set
in motion —if they were capable of setting
in motion anything—a force against which
Kings have no logical power or right to lift
their voice. Frederick was a sentimental-
ist, and though we may approve of his
sympathies as evidencing a good and kindly
nature, we reccg lise also that he had not in
him the stuff of which “great” men are male.
He was no hero c rpable of sacrifice. He kept
his throne, though he objected to the
bayonets upon the points of which it rested.
Christ forswore the things of this world ;
Gautama renounced a crown for conscience’
sake ; Solon and George Washington each
refused the temptations of a throne and the
bait of the kingly homage of a nation. These
are the men we sre wont to place upon the
pedestal of “greatness.” Frederick sought
a compromise in a limited monarchy which
admits neither the right of the one to rule
the many nor the right of the many to rule
themselves. The very thing he strove to
gain for Germany would there have been, as
it is now in England, a hindrance to “ human
progress,” and a fetter on the limbs of
Liberty.
We shed tears of pretended sorrow over
an Emperor’s grave. We rend our garments
and simulate much woe when a tyrant dies,
for “good” as he may be claimed to have
been, a tyrant, by virtue of his birth, the
dead Emperor was. We mourn, in sackcloth
and ashes when a man dies of whom the best
that can be said is that he was a driver of
dumb driven cattle, who “ promised ” not to
u ? e the goad or chevy them in the days of
war too much. We weep not thus when the
truly “great ” men, the apostles of human-
ity, drop from the stage of human action
into the cold oblivion of the .apathe-
tic grave. The Hugos, the William:
Morrises make no desolation in the
hearts of the Parkeses of this earth.
No special Parliamentary votes of con-
dolence are flashed across the ocean to those
who mourn the nobly, truly “great.” No
national g'oom overshadows the sun of our
life when the really tremendous workers for
the cause of human progress die. No ! We
reserve the superfine fruit of our sympathy
for the man who feebly sympathised from
the summit of his purple-vestured throne
with a conventional and already nearly effete
half-measure of constitutional reform, and
the gigantic brood of Liberty may go hang
for all we care, for many of them wear
blouses and none of them wear crowns.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Marriage and Divorce.
So far as may be judged from certain vague and
ungrammatical letters contributed to the daily
Pres sl , the narrow-minded and stiff-necked genera-
tion who so strenuously oppose the of the
New South Wales Divorce Extension Bill base
their antagonism on the bedrock of Biblical teach-
ing. Surely not, if the non-theological mind may
be permitted to inquire, because of anything in the
procedure of the Old Testament worthies who
espoused and put away wives in the most off-hand
fashion without, so far as is known, in any way
incurring Divine displeasure. Those who peti-'
tioned Parliament against this measure are, it
may be confidently asserted, satisfied with their
marital condition, and, therefore, do not desire to
change it, and no one wishes to compel them to do
sa. Selfishly enough, however, though happy them-
s lives, they are apparently desirous of preventing
others from attaining a similar felicity and therefore
devote much time and zeal to the denunciation of a
law that might free many sufferers from matrimonial
misery or enforced celibacy. Were these “unco
guid” folks discontentel with their state, they
would probably be the first to declaim against the
injustice of a contract so binding that no law
existed capable of its dissolution. However, being
connubially contented, their joy seems to be in-
creased —like that of those who are represented as
gazing from the battlements of heaven into the
pit of Tophet—by the contemplate nuf the marital
misery of others, and they are therefore unwilling
that this misery should be lessened and their own
contrasted happiness diminished by the slackening
of the bonds from the sufferers. The Pharisee
who thanked Goo that he T™ 4 descendant
has left behind him numerous h j
like progenitor, are r g 0 { pA
In order to emancipate the marria gH«
from the assumption mutual ar . ,
intents and purposes merely * & WO ffi» D Jke
ment between a man jt ff
religious rite, ceremony a c ivil m s, !y by
wise to make it, compute 0 ’ f» tefl C oinP e „ c e
Were all matrimonial' candi - in thei»*|Jj
law to make a personal , m
of a State official, as m the vie ffOt jy
of France, a more common se ia
matter would in future ‘ , j ouS would
the superstitious and os e ngag enien ,n#*'
a religious duplication o , i o f its
act having thus been divested °
incumbrances, everyone rria ge h«
the fact that as soon as , unbaPl
irksome to, or produc 1 interested,
either or both the pa' | cU ] a ted by lts of tbfl*»
assuredly immoral and the peace l
ance to endanger, 310^ f n ? he entire
bound by it, but that of ;t
This view is taken knowing f j® cb*»* Jui*
every unmarried lady w a gainst t
this article. War is decided
service, bridesmaids, we blossom'’. r c ’Jb,” 3ll f
white satin shoes, orang ( n g3la Jt
veils, the pealing of the JJ boot 3. 1
the throwing of rice and * 1(J the at L
which relics of barbausm bor n. jiJJm#
supercilious governnien gn( j a big
a cross voice, an lnksta » the r 0! ? be
covered book. On the one other J fy #
too often spells misery . cu r ''|, e lor®*,y
that leads to conteffiment the bach i tW
cannot fail to be popular wd inin ds t° 1)0 de
cannot as yet make up the 0 f » reC oj>
ex pensive and satined " ce3g ity-i» , e
wedding, it must also e veO n °
mend itself to the ladies
to condemn it. _—— ; p
A Purge for B s> e '
i gQ Jd l tl-
- may confidently be aS j C p a rty K. 1
South' Wales is concerned, d&Jfc
complete failure. The so b?ne fi * ■„ u
to hold on to office, and all tW onsta u^ tr #
ing thereto. With this . . J de f f at by
they are disinclined to *! patter h f! 0 a iiid! o i
tion of any measures n 0 ® taste ftil to de6 u# 0 [
quired—likely to prove d „ a ,
of the members. The ‘ e »joy
ousting the “ins, in or are d fjjf
office, that they are ? vel3 ' e d con vl ° L wjv
measures which their a j me® 1 c
them to support. Payment oi 0 f
vernment, a reduction in ol ' „](!
tary representatives, the the
patronage and p.ural vc r?
elections on one day, a p o vtrer
probably, by reducing the I d „
and altering its charac raoH°P
members who represen . (}ov
with many of the evils o aT®. jjjif
if these reforms, some ot gU ccess
of being legalised, arc lepro# e 3 Ji’Likj
party Government from pj
its usefulness more d ‘ osS ible tsi J
tried. It would surely deP 3 . 1 o ftii ,l}
business of the various bt
on under the sole directi u nsk 3 P a (M, ,
without the interference p u si» e£B iv i;i)i' t, (
bunglers. Depart men
be transacted without g g«t pie'"/
it be accounted by M
to serve his bleed mg county be , e c )
without pay, surely it yrinistry
honour to form one of a of 'jri
higher emolument than Mini s * :e^ o ti fCS »i?!" ? h
one could then accus f ro m
office by unworthy
sonal aggrandisement. a f° , e pf° ■ j,jf.
party government to bee a m. e i
in N.b.W., yet even byJo®J e A
body may be purged fi a pomi n
present renders it 1
moderately honest peop •
generally from the „ feel 11 ?
of whom invariably hav be !
tates who are broken U P- . a s * .
supports them warxnly, r a fly du’ 1 j S
his calling make him oftc h® > r >J
six days in the week, : $4
solemn as dust on the 3 ® rba ps, \
start of him, imless, I -_jjt. v -ed r M
dies late on a Saturday W e \ e
nuisances also weeps b e py
but being a subordina - i»a» yy>
minor key of woe, and whf ig f
pm »*££* 'f^kM
belong to the coiP°, j erl ,is °L e
small way for the her e be d 1 ’
—though in towns
don’t belong to the co P 0 {
straw. The conecioaaoj* citi *e» »& # p
what makes the a vera " f b ro ll^ LfSl' 1 ; d^V'lr
monarchs in their h° ur , ba t h e i ! e ]g o jKjA
Biggs’s Water hole fee «
in his exertions tc » 1 ‘ a t
any Hapsbubu or R<>‘ - J ro ps : ft pC’jpCtfi
Bl iiG or the r s ej[ I
widers that a fellow- v h e ,^f
gilded splendour, and tb^^t^
next to sink beneath tt e \\e& jMpP&r fg
some such sentiment,f j 3 tpi} e '!, a f|
bosom of the Mayor of p,
Kaiser Fkedkrick ha R a nd ' pi ° ,$Ja
rose at the Council-bo; r ’ b }\e q fyt mj
ing his capacious
corporation thould ?P e ” j e grapH
r depayers’ money m f
Jiurope. But the mt J
—were democratic ana ; c ej 6 ‘ yfl* t K
the proposal wi ha de t j, e e . jjy ,/Jj
they didn’t sympathise t
of other people s *°° a / ggid ** J‘ l ;
never seen FreDEBIC >
them, and they did ll „bout ' fc > \> l f .(k'd
didn’t care anything/ th e ’ r g
they knew it was " wl ? J,is b‘ V/
Mayor wanted to " 1 C°,c<>&(/1
could do it at his own - < tb*
encouraging, but c ,jd A\
tinc'ly stated that t L^. 3 hiP d ti^“A l //j
the business, . aP lf - p i; d <t Vy.,
paid the expenses li' lll a jid jid l '
was swamped in Jt “ o
Brisbane sympathise- fjgiU. 0
a lie; it was only_ \ >r
when a man l ,a X s be c»°.L
• speech, it is rough if !
moral of the incident gd
of Australia is now
every assertion of nat j e , {ot M i J
the way. Grovel,<>d *»/ j
capital cities, and it . } to M
it is the only Australia^nd 3 j„ /■
to “snavel ” the I ~.]eHc ps
unread imbecile coin -
basket at Berlin.


and the Chinaman.
titl R ns T( ? r y P a Per which rose on
m the old Chi-n e * unc t Bat, deals as follows
L COgnise sanySv epr ?, blem - Th ‘- Hawk seldom
jwi ° n the er than a lord, and its
i»ovi e i? atter o d f Av, O TT be “klarsted colonial”
tllos e whiok AH and his brethren, are
®™tones of tlo Tp r . e y ai l among the hereditary
ChnL firs h t e (in ßritlsh Upper House
natn er .^ ree great \vara eai %L°f the present century, we
oll ftem e . stQa 'kr col]iair, Wlt h the Chinese, and had in-
China we maintained a large fleet
w WlvV mlita b’ forre Vn° ng Kon &’ and ke Pt a con-
,ort-ttii:rfsearn'n? into ns; tbere ; our vessels were per-
l’’,e»teni,ttan<,arins into fii eBe P olt3 > aD( I frightening un-
%de n > a nd the m*° or Buicide swe had consuls
tfiinesp diff P !? P^’ war , became such a common
’ , '®ioVo^ a i'.the inevitai!? 069 between them and the
fry to «?„' h'd the Tantv ? gunboat ’ became a kind of
*Qih Z t ata 's o m erfere with the °oolies, or
<*llen C vv he Wd or om°, them, the gunboat sailed up
Stable into the threatened to blow his Ex-
* %al atres ‘ a n EnttliJn lddle of next week '• did a village
'fowler® “ Wo «ld log! for something for which
bid thj the Rasper L p „ 18 a d, the Bulldog, or the
° n ° e > and r. Cal & ove mor tw? 6 ?P the river, the captain
'Jlple 0 { Jl, .\'Ksor lf he did not apologise at
Sbito , fe’Usand taplcf 0 -' VN > ."’ho had been arrested, a
V wL Vllla Se to thT ‘ n Bllver > he would raze the
! Blli ?ehiit Was ail this rt° UI i d > . and sow it with salt,
jfifiies to nL? nd thither reat „ enin g> and fighting, and
SnthJUna, an< j why did we send three
bey di?i oast °f ChSa^Tw 8, larße and ever ' active
I'totttsL d n °t like no.' This was why : The Chinese
[yJßclejg■ fc,UBte d them our manners were bad, our
{fnans- A We Were iJn were brutal, our women
>Wvi n V Verea low°sp? ra ." t and presumptuous bar-
Philosophical traders > with whom no gen-
?i 0t Practising of (Joxm?, eople would have any doings ;
astCi'U nof ro P riet y,an(l iinPi nd Usages of old, did
was i. Wa nt to son we were more civilised
ft>le no he i e fp an y more of us. All they
If we did n „ ? eace 1 they would not
.fight * e them. w p t ?°t trouble them. But
SWe mint. ’fiake a u : oW -them that no nation had
S, U Mh a rade With everv“il ° f itself > that ever y
& " hat thev y wp her pe ?P le - and especially
life ’ 1 b rem len must hp 3 liT ere i nade for 1 and > finally f
dilute tho tn i- *° r which pu? wed to live and trade in
and heBe thitvf/ llk ed. could S° abroad and
They did nnf Chinese would have none
thL 91 Wisdorn *° n */,“?* want us in their country,
i" ff e went to i ours - So, to teach
* t he ttl 'v. fi | 'fitto thee™ w ;th them, battered down
to pl°w u s ? a y a lot of mnn° Und Iheir emperor’s palace,
to u ~° 8o to their ? nd B ’B’ n a treaty agreeing
A k?hese^®T tr y> and their owii people
the, and is«n results and objects of the
C. At and K . 0r a time, all went well,
covi'fi’ilege 5’ the , tur . merchants to live
th a t ?! SToing- abrnaH d ' c i not take advantage of
th> Setfe w!s mor e V ? Iy soon the y dis '
piJjMheii. Aufttvor mone y to be made in the
t heD , . t aihva V s Wn eountry* i i and Bri tish Columbia
fiiMp : '"ese Z 8 a fid other s nnKi babour wa s dear in these
lnd uced to ™ ° '! 1 orks were needed, and
In home S ° and d 0 the work. They
VdS. as V» e<vs °f the’FM> Spr f ad over the whol ®
Cti* (Joincky 0 •j ,o , rado beyond the seas.
msli Ba nds and a J d Ion S a S°< ‘ man is a
ttleir fortnJ enB of thousands went
«tiS Ce Were Meanwhile, America
While filled with work-
-Bolletolte"eWVWas too mnJh er ? were none of these,
S?'4Z me to bome* fo * them, the Chinese
jWi' tile E UI , n etl the inflny >. when work
n °) ie an workman .Chinese immigrants con-
jC hIi&PW iO3. a daV? UndhimBelf ‘ out of it.’
workman* 0 t drunken ’ ,az y’ unre -
I|? co,! ork man\ lneeni ous Chin'^ hen f they could get a
Nta o Jtse of h kaB a vote ™m, na “ an for But the
.V a aVostripfllthe 6 th eiChinaman has not;
1n tlle ’fioonflim nf*rm- eded m S ettin S Acta
%d|Y)’ even, n n s , or fie eases of I- uP 1 " 68 ®' It; was ordered
Settle G ? hlna man • ’ ln ofc hers £3O, should
\ for the ten ?B tha colonies. But
call th a i Inhibition’ mm ? ow Australians are
SL a Bair (at ‘th? i rony . . 1 his is what poetical per-
S^' a fid in lr Will,tooo ®p ; W ! force ‘he Chinese,
J? thch nuiriiio le *? u arld ke one of us;
t£ ?Se a v,® ° ld iegSldtnm*- we cr y out against
Sdi e a B>tia n ’ s hundred lan!nl? dln " er se by Goethe
NtS*w B a >nts, who U on eS and dialects, about
. G 5?! 0 that but who rt°S mu i anded the broom-
h° UB o Aoi d , n , 0t . kno wthe spell to
t °annoe 1 2 0 e °f trouhme ed ’ - 1S here in real life -
Uv ia fis 8d how to lai7 to vc aiSe the Chinaman,
a|N, t?" 5 botto 6 is absolutely itiB alloff n °w.' What is
ifSt & Br-Una of this wLT n f' But > in fa °t and
OO filth w °rkniai7 h(ol ?, r buBln ess is our old
CS w n Easu nd , h .l ar a s ° od deal
iJatg .ends i n , of the Chinese, as
das den s of Jap* d? "’ S y dne y> and Mel-
? bu n l° white . r »th- T h , ioh walkfd B P°t-
The Chin hlS tal - k about Chinese
kV c 4erf n ,’ at) d quite ” aman is as moral as the
hih fiv e oiiy 16 hours*! °l ean ; His sin i 8 that
MlMor 8 ygaining k p : B ad W for 360 days per
~f a third ®f r > which is ™ B P,® n t m a wild spree
sr iv! lB "ofk dt nnk 0 l the p av nf s °metime in February—
eu k "ith be win not h 3, Bn t ls h workman ;he
hNc?: tele ingenm'tv ] ™P udei V and he will
tn’ theiw! 8 frightful J n a ? d i thoroughness than
,"°rk ' d t' 3 h WorkmL° ata °g' ue of enormities
NHth! 0 fifiist K hen > how have the place to
filers,or V be able to £ n A for what wages he
t° get days ' a w!*i, drunk when he wants
in& h WagesS‘° ‘o heek ’ his em-
N.Nllv>>fimt ereB just ’ni 1 - the sam e time. As
VKibW It ta *ed nera! bis game,
SNiu* 'Unel* alt °gether m U Ji ed ’- buffet ed about,
R, fiow 38 agitation in A hl ? tbe be " a 'i and
8(vn^ a l)» x°r 8 om P a ? d of which Aus t ralla . of whioh we
»'* 7
i of 'c' uilfk ia . n element in <'Ur
el °quencl t v to / a Pl )r ociate the
iq qpf the devil,!’ b . Ut somehow this
lAtaf*. t,h a n fim d of s n t nent which England
i‘h Indore wfi^ 1 tomake it any
tjH l 6 >t> if 9, how . should be
kul'fi hi i’iie Ci .Utnself in .^ e „-h n Biishman has
tn h D C - en V ral Flowery
4.the >. h ut g thl Bnta m and repay
Wantsf ene [ ou 1 H readiness
' v Cn v il!' Clu ght doesn’t 8 + t 0 B i tled somebody
% ,}>q u’hies * to do. 7 Pk„ to l our hearts so
is W catalogue of
Himself us wonder
a B r th he is u Wh tbe poll-taxed,
S ufethet aB sertl n even than He
J t)M ll Bah t rali ai aVe rag e the Chow is
VrjUie, ou t^ o ! 1 w °rking. lr ,„ tlS M working-man—
n , y Hawk knows
SI *. LiL 1 "^ 6 u s feel shy
I 6llCe fn I l yon e win, ? xa . ctl y how clean
be aw 7, . IS , behind him in
S tK&C h 0 et ies Act Tw 6 3of th e New
Si iS ta f great Hi-Ham
of t , lr *B With nct lSBUea Proclama-
a* 15 (io Wh* Ve Ue nwmtvf m Murray
5 \ i thaS b V. and Victoria
CA(S ifi eV’tray nver beiongs
e hsively f the two
by Vicfcoria n
\SS P s ,Po SSp ln d of a . su PP° a ed that
B 8 !* 1 bythp' ? mterest in its
'ihat}, atld £ u lKri .! ar ff er and more
VVSiv GoveS 8 Bfcern order to
about t adß them to
gj" the old man’s
intenj ust th «
L.. - to go in for
violence and war he must let things slide. For
many years New South Wales has set up a series
of claims to the entire ownership of the Murray,
and elaborate arguments have been put forward
to show that Victorians have no right to drink out
of that river, or wash in it, or look at it, or even
think about it, but, somehow, nobody seems to
have paid much attention to the matter. Vic-
toria, in a languid sort of way, has intimated to
New South Wales that if the Murray is her par-
ticular river she had better take it away in a jug,
and keep it at home, and meanwhile the great
stream has flowed on very much as it did before
the white man was ever heard of in Australia.
Sir Henry Parkes’s pompous ukase is only
another proof that he never loses a chance to
be insolent and exasperating when there is
nothing to gain by it. Even if New South Wales
should get full possession of the Murray she will
not be one cent richer than before ; and when she
has obtained the right to prevent Victorians fish-
ing in the disputed water, or using it for irriga-
tion purposes, the mighty stream will run to waste
just as it has done ever since the first Corns! alks
began to gape and pray for rain on its banks. But
Parkes himself must know —if he knows anything
—that he will never secure the right to control the
Victorian bank of the Murray. His claim is based
entirely on the Imperial Act of Separation, which
in its complicated blunderings fixed the southern
boundary of New South Wales on the south bank
of the dividing river, but then Parkes has re-
cently declared that Imperial laws and treaties
are of no account, and Victoria, for once, agrees
with him, and says cordially that those are its
sentiments in the present instance.
+
Mr. Charles Lyne, of the S.M. Herald, who
has in season and out of season for many years
been a faithful follower of Sir Henry Parkes,
has been rewarded with the secretaryship of the
New South Wales Parliamentary railway com-
mittee at a salary of £7OO a year—much to the dis-
gust of many Civil servants who, having worked
long and being possessed of special professional
qualifications, consider that they have a better
claim to such a position than could possibly be
shown by any outsider. There can be no doubt
that Mr. Lyne is a most capable, patient, and in-
dustrious man who willmake an admirable official;
he is the living embodiment of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald, and what more would you have ?
But, neverthless, his appointment is a job which
strikes a deathblow at the honouiable ambition of
every man in the Civil Service. If men, merely
because they happen to be friends of Parkes, are
to have “ the plums,” why should there any longer
be kept up any pretence of promotion by merit and
long service, and soon? Mr. LYNEhasbeenfor many
years a solid friend to Parkes, and now Parkes
is grateful. Ordinarily, Parkes is ungrateful—
he is only grateful when ingratitude would be a
virtue, just as he is only ungrateful when ingrati-
tude is a crime.
4
The Weekly Bulletin, a London journal which
was christened after this paper, and which has
struggled ever since to live up to its name, writes
on the decay and death of English agriculture.
The scene of its observations is laid in Sussex,
formerly one of the best-farmed counties in the
land over which we all yearn so piteously :
“ We are writing this in one of the now memorable
Sussex deserts, in the brilliant sunshine and amidst the
loveliest scenery, on what was once a lawn. Almost at
our feet are a posse of little wild rabbits, and the shadows
of flooks of starlings, pairs of partridges, wild birds of
every description, flit occasionally across our page. The
hoarse cry of the cock pheasant comes ringing every now
and then from the woods that lie close at hand, and an
hour ago we startled a heron from the lake. Wild duck
quack in the morasses as the drakes look after the well-
being of their mates nesting under the banks of the
streams. Plovers fly hither and thither wild as
hawks, whilst in the gorse or heather, which now in
almost hundreds of acres covers the land, lurk a dozen
foxes. Only a few weeks ago six or seven hares were seen
in one afternoon. Tne whole place is a preserve, and
nothing more—game in myriads. We have just ridden
over the property, and have watched every farmhouse and
every cottage slowly crumbling to the ground. Ten or
fifteen years ago this property yielded existence to scores
of human beings ; tc-day there is no human life upon it
except that of the keepers.”
Englishmen are already beginning to ask how
many years more c f decay will be required before
the country districts are utterly abandoned, and
England consists of nothing but a score of over-
grown cities planted amid a wilderness as desolate
as that which the Romans found 1900 years ago.
4
Very few Ministries, either in Australia or any
other part of the world, have had so many inspira-
tions in so short a time as have descended on the
Parkes Cabinet in New South Wales. A large
number of different mental illuminations have
been vouchsafed on various occasions to that
violently-bossed crowd, and with the excep-
tion of Postmaster-General Roberts, who has
hitherto remained dull and somnolent amid his
colleagues’ flow of soul, every member of the
Government has been visited by one or more
revelations. And now even Roberts has got an idea
—or someone in his department has got it for him.
In view of repeated alleged steals on the part of
letter-carriers he has resolved to prohibit these
public servants having pockets in their pants any
more. Observation has taught him that when the
postman steals a letter he puts it into his trousers
pocket, and Roberts has resolved to bowl him
out by not letting him have any such re-
ceptacle. By-and-bye it may possibly dawn
on ROBERTS that the postman can put letters in
the pockets of his coat and waistcoat, and then he
will prohibit them alsoand when he has done
this the humble public servant who wants to prig
will wear a belt and shove the stolen correspon-
dence down the back of his neck or else put it in
his boots along with his feet. If Roberts remains
in office long enough, however, lie will probably
crush even this device by making it unlawful for
his subordinate to have any back to his neck or
any feet either, or else he will make him carry his
boot 3 in his hand. Possibly when the postman’s
pockets have been sewn up to suppress thieving it
may dawn on the Ministry to sew up the mouths
of Roberts’ customers to prevent drinking, and
th«n—but this opens too wide a field for specula-
tion altogether. Anyhow 7, we presume the
question may safely be left to Parkes and his
colleagues. The genius of that aggregation is a
mighty influence, and the march of its giant
intellect is greater than the rush of a tight elephant
falling downhill.
Mount Morgan shares are now quoted at,
say, £l3 5s —making the total market value of the
mine £13,250,000—t0 pay bank-interest on which
Mount Morgan will have to produce annually four
times as much gold as it has been doing.
One of the best purely speculative “ rises”
made during the recent N.S.W. silver-boom was
effected by a young man still under seven-and-
twenty who started business with a few pounds,
and now has at his credit £70,000 hard cash to in-
vest iff city property.
“ Dick ” Thatcher.
The name, if not the features, of Mr. Rich-
mond (“Dick”) Thatcher is familiar to many
thousands of our readers in different parts
of the world. He was born in Brighton
(Eng.), and early adopted the sea as a profession.
When the New Zealand gold-diggings broke out
he joined his brother, the “ inimitable,” a poet
and singer, and with him travelled over a great
portion of the colonies. He then traversed the
coasts of Australasia in search of shells, and in
time drifted down to Fiji and the islands. On
his return he took to journalistic literature, and
started papers at Muswellbrook and Murrurundi
(N.S.W.), afterwards joining the Bathurst In-
dependent and, later on, a Sydney daily
paper, which he left to act as agent to Mrs. Scott
Siddons. In turn he managed the financial busi-
ness of the Davenport Brothers, Levy, and Miss
Ada Ward. Returning from a somewhat lengthy
tour through England, parts of the European
Continent, America, and South Africa, with
that lady, he went back to the colonial
Press, only, however, to take another
trip to Europe as avant courier to the Mammoth
Minstrels. That venture failing, he came back
and set up as a boniface. Since his retirement
from that business, Mr. Thatcher has followed
literature as a profession, and until a month ago
edited the Newcastle Morning Herald, the great
Protectionist organ of the coaly city.
Clementina Dina, a Sydney girl, drowned
herself in the harbour last week. She left behind
her a note stating that she was “ tired of life.”
No wonder, poor soul! She lived at Potts Point.
Speaking of a gentleman who was found
lying dead in his office in Melbourne last week,
the Melbourne Herald says : —“A copy of the
Melbourne Herald of the 4th inst. was found in
one of his pockets, since which day he has not
been seen. ” Comment would be cruel.
Some time ago Mr. Chapman severed his
connection with the firm of Daintrey and Chapman
to accept the appointment of Prothonotary to the
N.S.W. Supreme Court. Now we note that Mr.
Murphy, who held a high appointment in the
Prothonotary’s office, leaves the Government ser-
vice to undertake the management of the exten-
sive business of Want, Johnson, and Co.
The Auckland Star apologises abjectly to
its readers for any shortness in the supply of their
papers, 2000 copies having gone down with the
foundered steamer Hawea. Then the Auckland
Observer apologises harder still, 2,000,000 copies
of that journal having been lost in the same vessel,
and adds sadly that it wishes it had thought of
this hideous prevarication a little earlier, but it
has beBn its fate all through life to follow the lead
of some other liar.
One of the saddest things in our experience
comes from England. A few years ago a country
gentleman of High Church proclivities undertook
to restore a decaying cathedral, and has just been
sold up under mortgage as the price of his devo-
tion. He “ blewed ” his hereditary pile on altar-
cloths and sacramental-plate, and his wife now
keeps a milliner’s shop in London. The unhappy
church-restorer himself has disappeared.
We have read Mr. T. G. Muir’s letter to
the S.M. Herald, in which he says he objected
to pay for the Sunday Times advertisement
merely “because he was not indebted, and not on
account of any, to me unforeseen, technical dis-
ability the law may have provided against the
plaintiffs in this case. ” That being so, why did
he allow his counsel to set up a technical defence ?
Why did he not rely absolutely on a defence upon
the merits of the case ?
An ingenious method was lately discovered
on board a British man-of-war for making a cham-
pagne-bottle hold more than its maker intended.
This bottle was filled every day with grog for the
use of a certain number, of men. The men found
the allowance too little, and a request for more
having been refused, one of their number subjected
the bottle to heat, and succeeded in blowing out
the bulge in the bottom, so that it became nearly
flat, thus much increasing its holding capacity.
There is a rumour current to the effect
that the directors (one of them an uncertificated
insolvent) of one of the numerous mushroom
financial institutions of N.S.W , are working the
oracle “ properly.” The story goes that several
of their number have overdrafts at the institution
they manage ; that one overdraft totals five
figures, and several of the others at least four
figures, and that in at least two cases the institu-
tion’s only s-curity consists of silver-scrip, which,
bought at 325. per share, now stands at Bs. fid. or
so. The games which are being carried on in
N.S.W. by irresponsible persons who speculate
with the money which they manage to get en-
trusted to them by offering a higher rate of in-
terest than is generally current are truly wonder-
ful, and present a spectacle of financial immorality
such as can be met with in no other country
under Heaven—not even in Mexico.
According to a Sydney daily, John Burns,
the “hairy man,” has been committed for trial at
Armidale (N.S.W.) for a mail-coach robbery per-
petrated six years ago. The same paper observes
in its own quietly infatuated way that Burns is
supposed to b® the bushranger Liley, and very
probably he is. Only there is a nether man who
has been in gaol for some years because he was
supposed to be Riley, and if Burns proves to be
the man that he is now supposed to be, we would
be glad to know what is to be done with the other
man who was suspected of being the man that
Burns really is. Perhaps he will be flogged for
insubordination in violently declining to be the
person he ought to have been, or ehe he will be
hanged on the ground that if he wasn’t a bush-
ranger there is no evidence to show that he wasn't
something else, or, maybe, he will be tried for
getting into prison on fa’se pretences and then
sued for the Government victuals he has had while
in gaol. We would rather not be that man.
Dear Bulletin, —In the back-blocks of
New South Wales, where the pedagogue has to
chop his own fuel and dust out his own university,
there live within five miles of each other two
brethren of the blackboard and the cane. ()ne,
who is well up in the ways of this tempestuous
world, formerly owned a living fossil which was a
horse in Governor Macquarie’s time, but which
had since degenerated until it looked like the
small brother of the extinct megatherium; the
other, a harmless soul, had read about horses and
thought he would like to possess one also. He
explained this craving to his friend, and the owner
of the aforementioned wreck grasped his hand
effusively, and assured him that there was no
pure and holy* joy on earth which could compare
with the possession of a horse. “ I’ll sell you
mine, ” he said in a spirit of noble self-sacrifice ;
“I/want to see him in good hands, for I have
great respect for him, and I know you’ll treat
him well ” —and in less than half-an-hour the sale
was effected at a price which would have been
exorbitant, even in Macquarie’s days, and while
one teacher struggled away homeward on top of
his new purchase, the other lay down and shrieked
W H ll1 ™ an d said in a low, coarse way that his
confiding friend was a born owl. The horse
nourished in his own fossilised and ruinous style
tor about a week after this transaction, but then
the damage done to his feelings and the uprooting
ot old associations began to tell on him ; he fell
away and so did all his hair, his tail became
bald, and he lost his eyesight and trailed his head
between his legs. Very soon his new owner was
driven to walking and dragging him behind in
order to save time—always mounting, however,
for the sake of appearances, when he passed a
public-house, and the proprietor began to fall
away faster than the horse. The animal lay
°n nis chest at nights and he grew prematurely
old. At last he started out in a forgiving
spirit to present the wreckage as a peace-
offering to Old Man Smith, who had promised
to knock the darned stuffing out of him”
because he whacked his little Johnny, but
the property gave out in three legs before the
journey was finished, and was thus transposed
into a living music-stool. Then the teacher sold
him for ss. to a gardener who used him for
manure ; the orange-tree now blossoms above his
grave, and the locust chirps on top of his dust,
and the two school-teachers are not on good terms
any more. For an all-round elaborate curse that
never rests or sleeps—for an animal malediction
which is equally an anathema in the stable and in
harness, which brings down evil alike on its owner
and its oats, commend me to the horse of the
Australian back-blocks.—Yours truly, Horse.
Dear Bulletin, —Many people would
think that the correspondence and red-tapeism
about a pane of glass was—well, hyperbole. But
to me occurred the following : The saluting bat-
tery in Gibraltar has 22 guns, so as to have one. in
reserve in case a tube misses. I was firing a
salute in answer to the U.S. frigate Juniata, and
noticed that No. 10 gun was peculiarly loud, and
when I said “ 21, fire !” it was No. 22 that went
off. The man at the laniard of No. 11 had pulled
by mistake exactly at the same moment as the
gunner at No. 10. I had to report this, and was
ordered to pay, I think, lOd., the cost of the extra
cartridge. Now, lam not stingy, but, on princi-
ple, I objected, and the correspondence, which
was referred to the home authorities, came to
about 305., besides the paper and ink, time of
clerks and officers, but, above all, the folly of the
thing. Eventually, the gunner had to pay, and I
have carefully estimated that he had 49 'drinks,
three Spanish dollars, 11 Spanish shillings, and no
end of small tips, in addition to the lOd. These
items accrued to him because he was sharp enough
to visit me every evening while I was dressing for
mess, and enquire, “ Anything more, sir, about
that ere blank cartridge.”— Hiram Abiee.
Zola has gone back to his original prin-
ciples, and is now writing a moral novel to con-
vince his enemies that he hasn’t forgotten how to
produce anything except what is foul. His recent
books have not particularly impressed the reading
French and English public as being excessively
clean, but their sale has impressed Zola in return
with the idea that Englishmen and Frenchmen
—to say nothing of the women—are still less clean
than he is, so things are about square. His earlier
books, which are pure enough for any drawing-
room or girls’ boarding-school, have not even been
translated and England does not know of their
existence, so the Frenchman may be pardoned for
thinking that filth is the one thing which the Anglo-
Saxon race hungers after. M. Zola, as a man, is nob
much to look at, inasmuch as his form is anything
but a model cue. He is not exactly hump-backed,
but for all that his ears are on the same level as
his shoulders. The features of his face are some-
what difficult to describe. His head is rather
larger than the average ; his forehead is high, and
his eyes have a sad, dreamy expression. His nose
is slightly retrousse, and his chin is well moulded.
His eyesight is bad, and the consequence is he is
hardly ever to be seen without glasses.
Occasionally a tale resembling that of
Enoch Arden is to be seen in the papers. It is
not often, however, that such turn out as fortu-
nately as that which has just come from South
Carolina. In June, 1866, a young soldier, on his
way home from the war, married the belle of the
village of Stony Creek. They lived very happily
till August, when the husband left for a few days’
visit to his parents’ home in Georgia. He pro-
mised to return, but did not. In the course of
four or five years his wife married again, and
lived happily with her second husband for fifteen
years, after which he died. A few weeks
ago she was working in her garden, when
she was astonished to hear the footstep of
a stranger, and her Christian name. In a few
seconds she recognised her long-lost husband.
His explanation must have been satisfactory, for
they are now enjoying their second honeymoon.
Nothing can be learned as to his mysterious dis-
appearance ; ad that is known is that he is now
the possessor of a handsome income. It is
not every Enoch Arden who returns home
with a handsome income to find his sup-
planter dead. It would be the average man’s
luck to return home without any income to find
the other fellow very much alive and calmly
smoking his best pipe ; or to get back without any
income just to find that the old lady had now nine
children and wanted money to pay her second
husband’s funeral expenses. But away with such
thoughts ! Let us be sentimental.
A certain well known Australian comedian,
an enthusiastic disciple of Isaac Walton, found
himself, with a lot of surplus leisure on hand, in a
Victorian riverside town. To kill time he sought
about for means of enjoying his favourite pastime,
and on interviewing the landlord of his hotel
found that the worthy host had seme excellent
fishing tackle and a rod left by a former boarder
in lieu of an unliquidated score. The landlord
departed to find the “tackle” when a Milesian
deadbeat who happened to be nursing his leg in a
dark corner of the bar, sidled up to the actor
and soon put a new feature on the fishing tackle
question. “Is it fishin’ taackle ye want?
An’ is it 50 shillins he wants for his
taackle ? I can give ye fishin’ taackle better nor
bis for aighteen pince.” As there was a wide
difference between eighteen pence and 50 shillings,
our son of the sock and buskin, who was always
reputed to be canny, agreed to give eighteen pence
for the new fishing tackle. On planking the
money, our Irish friend immediately invested six-
pence of the sum in a “long sleever,” and de-
parted to get the “ fishin’taackle.” lie returned
presently, and placed a bottle of castor oil in front
of the astonished actor. “Why, that’s castor
oil.” “Jisb so, and ixcellint fishin’ taackle it is.
I'll till ye how to use it. Ye just go down to the
river and choose yer seat. Ye then uncork the
bottle and pow’er the oil on the waather. Pre-
son'ly the fish ’ill come to the top and swally the
oil, and a little while after that they’ll come up
again on the bank to expecthorate ! And then ye
can bash their brains out. Take my word for it,
misther, castor oil, if properly used, is the best
fishing taackle out. Mine’s long beer, sir.”


CORRESPON PENCE
“S. J.”: The ass which the old man editor suc-
cessfully carries across the bridge is the modern news-
paper in its Protean forms. It is now the correct thing
to run a printing-office out of which are issued se\ eral
newspapers expressing various opinions. One you use to
boom up a certain political party, the other to run it
down. One paper is a pretty decent one for “ family
reading,” the other isn’t. And so on “ Paddymelon .
Thanks for yarn.... “ T.W.R.” (Armidale) : Your story
doesn’t seem to end properly, somehow. You leave the
hero squashed under a tree, and the “ accompanying
matter ”is too long to do him any good. Why didn t you
cut the story shorter ? “ J.8.C.” (Townsville): We are
not sufficiently acquainted with the claims of Captain
Mackay as a pioneer and discoverer to pass an opinion on
the case, but as the former MTlwraith Cabinet re-
cognised these claims, we presume that the present
MTlwraith Cabinet will not go back on their decision
“ F.D.S.” (Woolloomooloo): We have read your poem,
O 1 Woolloomooloo ! ” and would rise to suggest that a
series of songs might be built about Sydney suburbs in
general. “ Hi! Coogee ! ” would do for one “ Miner ”
(Rushworth): Your grievance isonlyoneamongthousands.
Who can touch the average M P. and not be defiled?
“ p.p.” (West Coast, Tas.): Received with thanks
« Kismet ” : A densely-stupid departure from theTerewth.
....“H.W.F.” (Northcote, Vic.): Thanks....“ P.O’C.”
(Uralla): Well expressed. Just as we have see n the post-
man’s Hack become the main road and later a railroad
track, so we may live to eee our “ marked tree line
become the broad road leading to a free united Australia,
clear of Chinese, flunkies, bigots, bearers of bastard titles,
and ecum in general.... “ S.S.”: Mr. Phil May hasn t gone
to Rome. lie has gone to Melbourne for Tub Bulletin,
and will stay there during the Exhibition. If Phil May
went to Rome now while Cardinal Moran is there, The
Bulletin would be accused of entering into a Jesuitical
conspiracy of the Kiama Ghost pattern....“ B.B.”: \ou
remember the old bush rhyme :
“ If you are too fat and want to get lean,
Go and live for just six months with Hungry .”
....“ Throstle” (S.A.): Mr. Hopkins drew the picture you
speak of “B. and S.” : You must condense....“ Kurra-
jong ” : Kindly ca 11... Johnny Cake ” : Many thanks...
“ Subscriber ” (Tanago): There must be two magistrates.
“ Union Shearer ” : Next w eek “ Wai Rimmerai ” :
Will print 500 n.... “ Hugh A.” (Wilson): Sorry that the
subject is one which we must leave a10ne.... “ Martin II.”
(Vic.): Where was he convicted?....“ 0.P.Q.” : A good
little yarn, which, however, needs some dressing-up....
“Daniel T.” (Croydon): Excellent. Many thanks
“ Peep o’ Day ”: An excellent illustration. Next
week “G. M‘A.”: Will rerd shortly “Jack
Pipeclay ” (Green Swamp): Many thanks. Refined sar-
casm was the D.T. writer's intention “B.B.”: The
Sydney dailies are Freetraders became, amongst other
strong reasons, a tax on paper would cost the proprie-
taries a few thousands a year each. . “ A.V.D.”: Not
of general public interest; w ould only amuse a small
coterie. ..“ S. Mayne” : The fact is, of course, that fhe
anti Chinese agitation is now thorough'y played out
as a political war-whoop. Very ftw people took the
trouble to attend the “demonstration” in Sydney last
Saturday, simply because everybody except a few agita-
tors who like to hear themselves talk tikes it for granted
that the Chinaman’s day is over in Australia
“M. B. Goggs ”: A really humorous set of verses. Held
over “ A.W.8.” (Rylstone): A very curious experi-
ment. Next week “ Old Mr. Turveydrop ” : You are a
v ery satirical woman. Why don’t you send something
that can be printed? “C.A.S.”: Of purely local in-
terest. Flogging people with whips, instead of taking
your legal remedy, is a dangerous thing. The natural
answer to a threat to flog is a threat to 5h00t.... “J.
Livingstone C.”: We don’t want to be nasty, but it isn’t
poetry. You remark apologetically that you “ wrote it in
a hurry ; ” but then poetry is never w ritten in a hurry.
“ Easy writing,” once said Douglas Jerrold, “is d
hard reading.”....ll.C.” (Wellington, N.Z.): Very-
good. Shall appear soon “S.J.S.”: The clergy com-
prise so many dunderheads and born idiots that if the
Almighty were not the Almighty (be it spoken with all
reverence) He would be ruined by His champions in under
three months. There are even more fools in the pulpit
than on the press.
A Newcastle citizen was guilty of an out-
rage a few days ago which was calculated to send
a shiver of horror through the land. He observed
a wealthy Chinese inhabitant sunning his portly
frame on the wharf, and threw a bucket of dirty
water over him, and then, as the broad-beamed
foreign person gasped beneath the shock, he
screamed out, “Escaped Chinaman —just swum
ashore!” and two able-bodied Cornstalks helped to
rush the portly one along to the lock-up. A
meaner game than this was never put up on a
stranger m a strange land.
Mr. Boyes, who “went for” Editor
Richards, of Mudgee (N.S.W. ), with a whip last
week, was formerly an officer in the Cape
Mounted Rifles. His little amusement cost him
i‘3 and costs. Mr. Boyes, in this editor-thrashing
business, seems to have come off a deal better than
did Major Easton, who, on April 28 last, went
with a friend and whips to the office of a Galves-
ton (U.S.) newspaper to cowhide ah offending
scribe. “ When Editor Caminada saw that Mr.
Easton and Mr. Seymour had whips, he said,
‘ Now, gentlemen, in case you come here with
any idea of breaking the law, let me tell you that
though I am perhaps not strong enough to fight
you in your own fashion, neither am I coward
enough to submit to any violence at
your hands.’ Mr. Easton hereupon struck
Caminada with the butt-end of his riding-whip,
and then, drawing off, lashed him over the ear
with the thong. Mr. Caminada pulled out a re-
volver and shot him through the lungs, and Mr.
Seymour (who struck Caminada on perceiving
that he had a pistol), drew a pistol and fired at
Caminada, who returned the shot with fatal effect
—Seymour being pierced through the heart with
a bullet of heavy calibre. Eastern and his friend
both died within a few minutes. Editor Caminada
holds that he was justified in shooting, inasmuch
as he suffers from lung-disease and could not
tussle without risking his life ; and he will, no
doubt, be acquitted by the jury on hia plea of
Justifiable homicide.’ 1
History of Botany Bay.
Sir George Gipps arrived at the beginning
of 1838. He had been a captain in the
Engineers, and afterwards private secretary
to a Cabinet Minister by whose influence he
was made one of three Commissioners sent
to Canada before the little rebellion there in
1837. Gipps was a clever and experienced
man, a good speaker, and Lang says k ‘ his
moral sense was somewhat obtuse.” But
then Lang was in the habit of making
Gaelic remarks about everyone who did not
favour the claims of the Scots’ Church.
However, Gipps arrived in the colony just
after a masterful predecessor, and it is pro-
verbially a difficult task to lit the prophet’s
mantle to his follower’s shoulders.
* « »
For some years after Bourke’s departure
the results of his policy followed each other
in rapid succession. We have said that, ap-
palled at the magnitude of the evils of the
convict-system, and the hopelessness of any
attempt to remedy them from within the
colony, he sent a despatch to the Colonial
Office urging on the authorities the discon-
tinuance of the transportation system alto-
gether. In 1835 that correspondence, in
which Dr. Bland took part, was opened
up with Mr. Lytton Bulwer, and the
abolition of transportation became one
of the test-points of the Patriotic Associa-
tion. The Governor’s despatch gave the
agitators a definite ground to go upon, but
two years after his departure the Vested In-
terest pai'ty held a large meeting in Sydney
—February, 1839—t0 advocate the con-
tinuance of the convict-system, to which
that party was so much attached. In Octo-
ber of the following year Gipps informed his
Council that the Home Government, moved,
doubtless, by Bourke’s powerful representa-
tions, had decided to stop the custom of
transporting criminals to New South Wales,
and next month the Eden, which the
colonists regarded as the last prison-ship
that would bring its freight of sorrow and
sin to Botany Bay, sailed down the harbour
and discharged its convicts at Circular Quay.
But the struggle was not to end so easily as
that. It was not to be expected that the
vile and degrading custom that had obtained
from 1788 io 1840, from which so many
unique results had been obtained, and on
which the Vested Interest party had fat-
tened and grown wealthy from year to year,
was to be allowed to die out without a gal-
lant fight.
# * *
Lang says that the strongest advocates for
the revival of transportation were the pro-
prietors of flocks and herds in the interior—
that is to say, the squatters. These men
“ disliked the advances that were evidently
making by the middle and industrious classes
of the free emigrant population around
them, and felt that their own dignity and
self-importance would be much more easily
maintained in the country if there were no
middle class in the country at all—nothing,
in short, between the master and the slave.”
These squatters and proprietors were often
men who had brought out some capital to
adventure it in the colonies and return to
England with the proceeds. But the class
that led the clamour in this matter were the
descendants of the men whose career has
occupied so much of these papers, and who
were ready to ally themselves with any and
every person or force that could hold back
the colony or the path of progress, and
plunge it hopelessly in the squalor of the
old convict days.
* * *
These people had been brought up under
the convict-system, and at a time when
theatres and places or opportunities of pub-
lic entertainment were infrequent in the
colony, it was their practice to refresh
themselves with the sight of public
executions, and the flogging of, men
and women. “They had acquired,” says
Lang, “ a liking for the system ; especially
for the arbitrary power which it virtually
confided to the master, and the summary
punishment to which it subjected the slave —
the 50 lashes, for instance, for insolence,
laziness, or disobedience, or any of the other
imaginary or constructive crimes and mis-
demeanours of the convict code.” These
people, then, met together to discuss the
dreadful disaster that had fallen upon them.
They could see quite plainly the time when
the supply of convicts would die out —and
then what would there be to replace the
white labour which made their fortunes for
them, and what would become of the gallows
and the “cat,” the spiked iron collars, and
the fetters of the chain-gang ? The contin-
gency was a dreadful one. But these ques-
tions have answered themselves since then.
Convict labour has been replaced by some-
thing that certain people would like to see
made equally hopeless. And as for the
gibbet and the “cat” and the other barbar-
ous relics of our savage stage, these little
trifles are still in active use, and, so far as
they were concerned, the Vested Interest
party would seem to have agitated itself with-
out reason.
• •
A petition was prepared by the people
who organised these meetings of the party.
It prayed for the revival of transportation,
and gave some most excellent and indis-
putable reasons why the continuance of the
convict-system was absolutely necessary to
the existence of New South Waleß as a self-
supporting colony. No doubt the petitioners
believed all they said in this precious docu-
ment, fov we ean easily believe that they
found it impossible to realise a Botany Bay
in which, to quote the words of Phillip,
“there should be no slavery, and conse-
quently no slaves.” The petition excited a
great deal of public attention. It found
advocates later on in the Legislative Council,
of course. Amongst the people at large it
was condemned with one voice, and the
petitioners gibbetted for popular execration
under the name of the “Banditti Party.”
The leader of the Banditti Party in the
Legislative Council was Mr. William Charles
Wentworth.
* * *
It is not to be thought that the shocking
enormities of the convict-system had escaped
censure in England. The men who advo-
cated the Reform Bill of 1832, and the
abolition of slavery, were not likely to allow
these things to pass in silence after they had
once been brought under their notice. By
the Grace of God there were always humane
men there who lifted up strong voices against
its crying iniquities. Among these was
Bishop Hinds, who wrote in 1832 condemn-
ing the system in unmeasured terms in the
name of religion, humanity, and morality—
national and private. This man looked into
the future, and made an honest effort to
gauge the influence on colonial social condi-
tions of the institution he condemned. His
conclusions were not favourable ones.
“ Begin by breaking up the system,” was
the only advice he could offer. ‘ ‘ There is
no chance for the colony unless that pre-
liminary step be taken.” But this was not
all. So convinced had he become of the ex-
tent to which the traditions and spirit of the
system had sunk into and leavened the
whole of colonial society, that he could see
no reasonable hope for the future so long as
those traditions were allowed to cling. This
conviction has been amply borne out by
events. Every association that could reveal
the past was dangerous, he thought. “ There
should be a change of place,” lie recom-
mended —“a transfer, if possible, of the
seat of Government to some site within the
colony as yet untainted with the defiling as-
sociations of crime and infamy.” This
language is strong, but just.
* # »
This writer dreaded that, even if the
plague-spot were to be removed, the public
sentiment would continue to be charged
with the disease so long as the infection of
association remained. We must look into
our criminal code, and the traditional spirit
that underlies our social conditions to find
how far his dread was justified. But this
honest bishop might have gone a logical
step further, and recommended the com-
plete removal of all officials and others
trained under and associated with the con-
vict-system, or officially formed on the
models of the men who administered it.
These were the men into whose souls the
iron had entered.
** , *
Archbi'shop Whately, speaking in the
House of Lords some years later—in 1840,
namely —used even stronger words. A com-
mittee of the House of Commons on trans-
portation, which met in 1837, had in the
meantime collected a startling body of dam-
natory evidence. Its publication struck
horror into the minds of all who read it, and
many voices were raised against the abomina-
tion that had been nursed into being under
the British flag. Said Whately, voicing the
public sentiment on the subject: —“ Better,
far better would it have been that the lands
of New South Wales should have remained
till the end of time in their primitive wild-
ness, better for the mother-country, for the
aborigines, for the settlers themselves, that
the whole region should have been swallowed
up in the ocean, than that it should have
been erected into such a monument of
national folly and perversity, such a strong-
hold and seminary of wide-spreading and
moral corruption as it now exhibits.” These
scarifying words represent the verdict of an
English Archbishop on the working of that
so-called ‘ ‘ designs of Providence’ theory
which, as we saw in the first of these papers,
was announced as having given the Austra-
lian continent —the great lone, melancholy
island that had lain for thousands of years
asleep in a “summer sea -to the civilisation
of Britain as its inheritance.
* * *
It cannot be too often repeated in this
connection that such invective as this was
intended bo apply, not so much to the actual
convict, whom, indeed, it was proposed to
recal, but still more, and with far greater
reason, as their influence for evil -was the
stronger, to the class built up by the exercise
of the gaoler’s authority. Dr. Whately
understood as well as any man the Hue
character of this element in the Australian
community. He knew what he was*talking
about when he spoke these words. For in
the years that preceded 1838 he was instru-
mental in collecting evidence to put a stop to
that Assignment System under which the
evil had grown up, and which he had been
engaged in unsparingly exposing for some
years before.
Listen to Dr. Whately again : —“To per-
severe, I say, knowingly and deliberately,
in thus creating a profligate nation, and by
continual fresh supplies making and keeping
it from generation to generation the most
hopelessly corrupt community that ever the
sun shone upon, would be a national crime
and folly which I do trust there is too much
good feeling and good sense among us to
endure.” And to Bishop Hinds, in choral
response : —“ Think of what stuff this people
will have been made of ; and who it is that
posterity will then curse for bringing this
— 0 f the
mildew on the s joia b
world ; who it is that wd virtue
the injury done by it f^^lmoredM
human happiness, at a poster#
but more awful even 0 n the 8 ?‘
Truly, the opinions of exp* were be-
ject of the designs of Froviu
ginning seriously to di e ■ #
* * ,a have taken
What side Dr. Warded would .
in this dispute of course 't lt ,
sibie to
however, that Mi. „ jah party, ,
of the leaders of the ‘‘Bawhtn »
an advocate for the »>,
state of things against wlucl
stood to be fighting up to J.
TTp it-id bv tins tune becoin 0 f
Steal squatting and j<
vict labour, and as he ff" ’f of bis«*J
to acquire a Vested I his p°P u f m
the system, he exchanged
patriotic sympathies fo ‘ o^ern tafff J
patriots, at least m hhe j jeell foU» et
certainly in Australia, hecoW e a noS
to resist! The ™™**sJs*
landed proprietor and ternt jjr V J
Botany Bay was too jj he stl Lion
worth’s patriotism, a » . fl t he &J „ 6
tinued to take an acti P w hich t a ]|
for responsible gov*™***, «***
shall see presently, had v
this time. . * 0 f #
“Not satisfied with h^| g J oC k^
largest speculators in a 11 that g ea . 0
South Wales,” says La f ’ rin cip
had fixed his eye on Ojy »/*>
Zealand. Mr. Wentworth a fc
for titles and dignities, A
when we come to spea a pee
tion that a proposal to ® d
colonial dukes, eais, • pis fi rs l r s cc#
actually inserted by hu» sim l^
the Constitution. _ Som® eaS e t 0 i¥
to have moved lum .m eg kmg , c i#
Lang refers, which is per? 0 ®
strong light it throws col? 1 "L, o f#
acter of the man. Th heg ll ""^’#
New Zealand just after ma nyy e ‘ go#
century, but it was no - n th® r jgoif
wards that colonisation* 36 fcwo rtli
time previous to 1840, h oJJ
from a few of the Maor roU gb 1 c oV el ’ l, p
were sparsely scatteiei , rr jtoi'y,
Island; an expanse othe +
twenty millions of aci° pa
of the island. The treaty " fg 0 n U
drawn up by a few Maori n d > »
side, who ceded the paid
Charles Wentworth, i an kefs> g#tj
stipulated price »
powder, and some stoi fe made »
The instrument or deed a # re gr
and English, and signed nCO o
Mr. Wentworth, in *4 ie f # n,
witnesses. # _
This sale the aut^ r a !ipear e f J ifis c 5
puted, and Went worth a Ij[ vo cat« jjj,
old nominee Council c 1 pgplay 1 " 0 V
in person, ‘‘P^ dl &
ment with the signs-manu c l# JL.
independent and so (P 11 ! J.
said,” and concluding qy, b jju^.jjc
from the generosity or t ice ° io t jij
ing everything from tl : cU dO'P‘ hvo# J,
Gipps saw through this 1 W® 1 n # J
showed up the elam l - . , jp is 11 u
a torrent of sarcasm w Mi/
said Lang, “ that that g
been able to forget, " e^.Ae<
literally overwhelming ppi-op 1 Ly #«>
his notorious attempt to W cO aJ VV
own private benefit, -
might otherwise becom r yme J ' ge' d
myriads of his fellow- 00 of,' fi°
Mr. Wentworth was a p 6 d
but it appears to have e v jgo# i K
those who condemned d l^ ) ,yiiia I j. #
principle that there v ' l l w , c oa"
“ myriads of hiß f^akH 6 f
tween the fact oi 11 - n g cF
country alone, and its b gaJ)J 0
or 50 monopolists in Hy oft-,
myriads are just as ? rpe \iOs {
and the bulk of the J
tralia are just as fe ;l ed # j
the hands » J f less
a proprietorship h , a oll rse> * Vi/
The difference is, lo t ]ie A
the hundred individ* to
spoil, but nothing what e 0 # J
who are equally shut o 1 jo#, cf
* • e '' ]]i :l |
“ If all the jobs which 0 /A
the days of Sir V
lectecl into one job J 1 #
so big a job,” said °" o jji
in the Council, ‘ of
worth asks me to lem gjiy, of j.i
ing; the job, that is jjfio ij
him a grant of twenty S i f. y
at the rate of 100 acre S° l jjljo"
Land Company of oJl e J " #3,/#
been said to be a J°b ’ 0 - jt i, d#
at eighteen pence an ? . . f' 1 fJW
to be a pretty good }f>
vanishes into j.gp e ®p b
Wentworth’s job.”
patriot’s business. 1 ' A
for a principality in
the same time it con 0 f ‘. Act
the impossibility of e ng ifci o Aia v ,#!/l
Wentworth
leader. Public conf l( ftP u
the masterful charac? 1 , p (, P/ 1 /jij
him well in front of r] o v or . J !
until Constitutional . th 1 ® y
tained. Meantime,
is no occasion, to ®*Pp a j-ty , $ A
the term ‘ ‘ Banditti jjor
of whom Wentworth w* %
leader.


Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ New Babylon” p. 15.
Her Majesty’s.—" Lights o’ London ”..
Royal Standard.—" Run to Earth ” „
Criterion.—" Turned Up ”
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy ~
New Opera House.— “ New Magdalene”... „
The bitter woe and miserable aggravation
of the Prodigal Son, and how he came back to find
another man sitting on the veal were fully ex-
plained at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday
night, and will continue to be expounded till
further notice. The “ Lights o’ London ” was
evidently inspired by a close study of the ancient
Scripture parable, and, thanks to a judicious
revision, the story is now mote in accord with
modern sentiment. The father of the present day
generally shoos the dog, and not the fatted calf,
on to the penitent son, or rather he would fain do
so only the sorrowing offspring has poisoned the
animal the night before ; and he puts the wool of
scorn into the ear of disgust as he listens to the
young man’s pathetic appeal and orders the
clammy child of misfortune to be thrown out.
The repentant one is tired and covered with dust,
and the old man warns him that if he shakes him-
self on the premises he will send for the police; his
entreaty for food fetches nothing better than
cold potatoes on the stairs, and the sinner
ultimately retreats shying stones on the roof as he
goes, while his parent sends out the servants to
throw water on him. The Prodigal Son at Her
Majesty’s is enacted by Mr. Rignold with a little
less than his wonted success. He is too conspi-
cuously large and healthy for the part, and,
though his pathos is all that can be required, he
doesn’t appear hungry enough. Even in the
second act, where he delineates the unspeakable
wretchedness of the escaped convict, who has sat
upon snowballs and feasted on frozen hay for 48
hours, he looks, despite his picturesque awfulness,
as if he had dined pretty regularly ; and even Mr.
Rignold’s ability cannot make the audience for-
get altogether this natural defect. Clifford
Armytage, the designing relative whom the prodi-
gal falls over in the dark is played in splendid
style by Mr. Jewett. He is a haughty person
with a distant air, and he owns a treacherous
dark eye which he keeps in his head for seed.
His voice betrays the cold, damp ferocity of the
homicidal swell, and even when he is whaled in
the last act his native majesty never leaves him.
Amid other meritorious actions, he throws Mr.
Sterling Whyte over a bridge into real water, and
a splash six feet high announces the victim’s
sudden arrival in the purifying element.' Mr.
Rignold follows close behind, and judiciously
avoids falling on top of the swamped individual.
Miss Rowland Watts-Phillip3 makes a graceful
figure as the wife of the shunted prodigal,. yet do
we hope to see her compound cognomen shine in
many a loftier part; and Mrs. Rignold, Miss
Emily Fitzroy, and Mr. J. R. Greville share the
rest of the glory. The parent who turns a stopped -
up "listener ” to his son’s pathetic appeal fpr some
boots and a soup-ticket is nob of much account in
the story, but Mr. C. Hall furnishes the old
hyperbolical squire with a dignity which is hot his
own ; and the drama is rounded off with a halo of
pigs-trotter vendors, policemen, mouldy mendi-
cants, hot-potato men, old clo’ merchants, 'under-
takers, and Latin scholars in low water and
broken hats. The noblest thing in the show is
the scenery, which exhibits the footprints of genius
in its pathless wilds, and touches in lofty blobs of
paint the highest note of human admiratiop, but
where the beautiful is so lavishly stacked on top
of the sublime, and the gigantic conceptions of a
towering intellect are hauled up and do\|n by
means of strings for the contemplation of the
soulless herd (this figure of speech has b|oken
down).
## # *
“ New Babylon,” which lifted its scarlet
head on Saturday night after a sleep of nine years,
is very like the “ World,” only more so. The chief
feature of Paul Meritt’s multitudinous melodrama
is an American detective in a dove-coloured
planter’s suit, who wanders about improbable
purlieus whistling notes of exclamation, ejaculat-
ing “ snaix,” and treading generously on the
gilded fßor-cloth of modern refinement. The
detective has a mission, and the play has
been built up to enable him to unloose it.
He wanders about the face of the earth with
a " warrant and a pair of bracelets,” and mounts
the rung of fame in the twenty-ninth act with the
capture of a man in a red shirt, Spanish boots,
and a polyglot cognomen. “ New Babylon ”is
written to show the utility of being nobody in
particular in 25 disguises and 30 pairs of impossible
false scents. The cracks between the man in the
red shirt and Spanish toffs, and the dfffc-
tive with the tobacco-tinted voice are filled
up by a lady who wears tears ia her
hair, and canters through the groves of woe
in the London suburb of Chiswick ; another fair
creature, who looks like the first one, whose mis-
sion in life is to diink champagm, bid excessively
at horse bazaars, and ruin jockeys ; a crazy out-
cast, who turns out to be everybody’s mother in
the forty second act; a Chinaman who dances the
Highland fling; a number of clever peop’e, who
read telegraph messages off the tape quicker than
big print; a smart young pugilist, who gets wheie
he didn’t want to very successfully, and pets out
again with somebody else’s head ; a shipowner
who talks like a self-made member cf a colonial
parliament ; a Jew with a nose he has bought at a
cheap auction ; jockeys, blacklegs, saints, sinners,
' long-firms, good young men who never tell lies and
who stand prepared to protect everybody before
they require protecting ; Cremorne Gardens,
shipwrecks, and lightning. The action of the
piece spreads itself over the face of creation and
creeps into every chink of the Cosmos. The prologue
covers the heaving bosom of the Atlantic Ocean
and the nine-hundredth act unrolls itself in the
dismal caverns of a subterranean w'orld. A
number of people swarm all over the drama and
hang on to the protuberances of the plot, which is
full of holes and excresences, and accommodates
no end of characters. Miss Myra Kemble gets
more than anybody ehe, however, and upholds
the tottering edifice of a pair of twins that are
always mixing themselves into each other and
getting tied up in knots. Bland Holt does the
man in the dove-coloured pants and the “ snaiky ”
voice, and H. N. Douglas holds aloft the red
shirt of the Spanish Scotchman with the polvglot
cognomen. Mr. B. N. Jones endeavours to die
virtuously at the end of a telegraph-wire as a
noble ship owner with a glutinous twang, and Mr.
Walter Howe waltzes all over the drama, backing
horses and calling for champagne. The rest of
the company cling about the rigging of the show,
and do a number of acrobatic feats without in-
tending it. The caste is a very strong one,
and, besides those already mentioned, includes
Plain Bill Holloway’s fraternal relative, Messrs.
J. L. Hall, Harry Norman, A. G. Poulton,
Leo. St. Lawrence, Hans Phillips, Augustus
Glover, Mrs. Bland Holt, Mesdames Nelly Mor-
tyne, Montie Fredericks, Mowbray, Brooks, and
Mrs. Walter Hill. We refrain from describing
the plot, for it is a long while since we worked out
geometrical problems.
The celestial Essie having removed her
bright presence from Sydney Criterion en route
for the land where her ancestors dwelt in granite
halls and castles of split boulders, Brough and
Boucicault have resumed possession of the pre-
mises, and the cry of Shakesbacon is smothered in
the irresistible foolery of “ Turned Up.” Mel-
ford's comedy consists of a dizzy whirl of fathers
and mothers, all revolving like spooks and
spectres in the verdant groves of bigamy,
and the air is filled with the rush of innu-
merable parents who are past all human cal-
culation. In the first act the widow of the
late Captain Medway is missing, and to the
grief of her family they learn that she has be-
stowed the cold sentiments which still remain in
the trunk of hpr affections on an undertaker, who
has won her heart with the tender pathos of his
long black funerals and then laid his shop and his
hearse at her feet. The late captain is under-
stood to be deposited in the washy caves of the
Atlantic, and consequently he never had a funeral
himself, though it is generally understood that
if he could be fished up his successor would inter
him in style; but the undertaker’s new family
throw their funereal father into the river and he
comes out wet and drunk and weeping, and con-
sequently he appears to little advantage on his
wedding-day. An hour later a shaggy pirate is
seen shinning painfully up the river-bank—it is
the drowned captain come back to confess that
under extreme pressure he has wedded an African
bride, and that the Hottentot of bis bosom,
having hidden herself among the coals in his ship,
has come home with him, and is only a hundred
yards behind. This hurried accumulation of
unexpected parents forces the family to
disguise its sentiments and to make an effort at
hiding the various sets of progenitors from each
other, bub one father sits on a rat-trap in the
fernery, and another falls through the roof of a
MR. LEONARD ST. LAWRENCE.
summer-house, while the black mother holds up a
large bag on the lawn and the white one goes into
fits; also a prospective father-in-law declines to
enter info a family which includes an African with
a bustle and a damp, tight undertaker, and wants
to chastise his prospective son in-law with an
umbrella which leads that young man to defend
himself fesbly with a hook and pray for Provi-
dence to send him the key of the street. Mr.
Robert Brough as the undertaker is the most
wonderful character in the comedy. He is a
blotched ruin with three hairs on top, and
hi 3 lurid nose floats like a burning ship in
the great blank ocean of his countenance, while
he laughs by means of a disused quartz claim
which yawns on the shores of his chin. His legs
are a rejected poem, and his voice sounds like a
cat on the roof crying to his feet to come up and
lift it down. Dion Boucicault, junr., represents
the son of four parents, and the only possible
objection to his performance is that he walks 42
miles in the course of the evening. Mr. E. W.
Royce deserves some better source of inno-
cent merriment than the old captain, but he
makes the captain a cause of public rejoic-
ing ; and Mr. George Lash Gordon, who has the
only really inferior part in the piece, renders
himself violently amusing by his conduct to the
undertaker. Mrs. Robert Brough, as a pretty
daughter driven distracted by the multitudinous-
ness of Ur ancestors, plays her part to perfection,
and other ladies of different colours earn a lot of
applause. Something heartless might be said
about Mr. Manning’s make-up, but out of regard
for the rest of the company we will merely say
that his eyebrows are a misfit and his whiskers
don’t hang on to his head in a way calculated to
take in a child at night. Trusting that he may
yet repent, we say no more.
** # *
A great skating carnival is in preparation
at the Crystal Palace Rink, Sydney. Yet another
champion skater has turned up in the person of
Miss Mabel Sylvester, who appears at Sydney
Elite Rink. The wild horsemen from the plains
of Gosford—we mean Texas, of course—are still a
popular attraction at Coogee Aquarium. Mr. and
Madame Kenneth, mesmerists, are occuping the
Protestant Hall, and are prepared to cast a spell
over the local brain at a small sum per head. As
we write, Mr. Sydney Dickenson is advertised to
read the Declaration of Independence at Botany
on 4th July ; also Major Dane is coming to
lecture at the Y.M.C.A. Hall on July 10 and 13,
and a few more mixed events are taking shape in
different places.
#* # #
There are still some people left on earth
who are not stone-tired of the “Dream of Eugene
Aram.” At the concert at Coogee Aquarium,
last Sunday, Mr. Arthur Lawrence’s splendid
rendering of that pathetic old chestnut was
greeted with a triple encore, and the tumult could
only be finally allayed by a promise that the reci-
tation would be repeated next Sunday.
*# # #
Miss Ada Ward opens next Saturday, at
Sydney Opera House, in “New Magdalen,” the
lumbering blank verse of “ Carpio ” being, on
further consideration, held over till the public are
better prepared to die. Mr. Arthur Lawrence
will be the male light of the season, and it is
generally understood that the company is strong
enough to lift the whole street up by the roots and
empty it into the sea. On the same memorable
evening the French Comedy Company will pro-
duce itself at the Gaiety, when everybody who
wishes to''catch the true Parisian “axint” will be
present.
** * *
A charitable concert in aid of the children
of the late Mr. C. W. Logan will be held at
Sydney New Masonic Hall on the 14th inst. Mr.
Logan was for a long time a member of the
composing staff of the S.M. Herald, and
when he died some four years ago he left
a large family entirely unprovided for, the
youngest being only two weeks old. The
widow afterwards laboured hard for their
support, despite a mortal disease under which she
suffered, but some three weeks ago she also died,
and a doubly-bereaved family is now left entirely
penniless. The charitable residents of Sydney
have now an opportunity to aid in a work of
genuine benevolence, and it is hoped that they
will do so liberally.
** # #
“Drink” has taken immensely at the
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, where Mr. Charles
Warner has become a red-hot favourite. The
moral drama referred to has struck home to
those dwellers in the pious city who
indulge to an alarming extent in the
consumption of alcohol, beat their wives, smash
furniture, and in other ways engage in graceful
and intellectual domestic antics. Mr. Warner
receives excellent support, principally from Mr.
Herbert Flemming, Miss Isabel Morris, and Miss
Watt-Tanner. After “Drink” comes “Dora”
and “The Barrister” —a dual bill.
** * *
Frank Clark’s Variety Company has played
this week to dense houses at Sydney Academy.
The Donaldson Brothers still furnish the main
support of this show, and next week we purpose
dealing at greater length with the problem of
these gentlemen’s bones and why they haven’t got
them with them.
## # #
The Gaiety Company are singing their
songs of triumph six nights a week, at Melbourne
Princess’s, besides filling a long-felt want on
Saturday afternoons. There is nothing new to
say about “Monte Christo, Jr.,” because the sub-
ject is under eternal discussion at every fireside in
Victoria. Blood has been spilt in wild endeavours
to prove that each of four little goddesses is better
than the other three, and men are carrying their
arms in slings merely because their opinions
clashed with those of other people at heavier
fighting weights. Under these turbulent circum-
stances The Bulletin can only remark that
Nellie Farren is unsurpassable, Marion Hood
can’t be beaten, Letty Lind has no superior, and
Sylvia Gray passeth all understanding. Also that
Fred Leslie stands alone, and Danby is entirely
unique. Further, that a good many of the
audience stand alone because they can’t find a
seat. Meanwhile, the Carrie Swain boom shows
no symptoms of decay, but “Miner’s Daughter”
is advertised to be withdrawn on Saturday, in
favour of the aged narrative of “ Uncle Tom.”
## # #
At the Bijou anxious multitudes are still
watching “ Jim the Penman ” pursue his course
of gilded crime to its black and bitter end. Go-
vernor Loch graced the proceedings on Saturday,
and distinctly shuddered when Lord Drelincourt
spoke to his intended Countess about certain
jewels laying at his bankers. The part of Lord
D. appears to have fallen into the hands of a
Philistine who throws his accents wildly around,
and works hard to bring more disgrace upon the
aristocracy. A want of polish about his lordship
and other minor characters has detracted some-
what from the general effect of this strong play.
However, it has done good biz. for a month, and
on Saturday they try “Bachelors” for the first
time in Melbourne. Mr. G. W. Anson and Miss
Lilian Gilmore (from across the seas) join the
Brough and Boucicault company.
#* # *
Miss Amy Sherwin and Co. have been
ringing the changes on their limited repertoire at
Melbourne Opera House till it is unsafe to predict
what sort of music the morrow may bring forth.
The fair diva (diva is good) is continually recon-
structing her frame of mind, and when in doubt
she plays “Maritana” for trumps. That old
familiar friend in need turned up again on
Saturday, with Armes Beaumont as the stone-
broke Don Caesar. Mr. Beaumont was in as-
tonishingly good voice throughout, and his engage-
ment promises to give an improved tone to Miss
Sherwin’s enterprise. “La Sonnambula” was to be
played for the first time to-night (Thursday) provi-
ded meteorological conditions remained favorable.
To-night, also, John Gourlay takes a braw Scotch
benefit at St. George’s Hall, where the Coghills
have just celebrated their first anniversary. And
on Saturday those shining lights of sable hue
amalgamate their show with Harry Rickards and
his show—the whole forming such an artistic
aggregation and so forth as has never etcetera.
The-Victorian Hall, with Frank Clark personally
assisting, is bringing out novelties by every mail,
and the Alexandra opens its doors once more on
Saturday. The Alexandra will hold more money
than any theatre in Melbourne, but there is
generally a difficulty about getting all the money
inside.
*# # *
Argus writers seem to have a natural
genius for spinning yards of twaddle on theatre
subjects. Here is an extract from last Satur-
day’s issue of the “leading journal”: “Henry
Creswick came to Australia at 75 to play Romeo,
and did it so well that he enthralled the heart of
a N.S.W. belle, and took her home with him in
the capacity of a domestic Juliet.” It was Wil-
liam Creswick who came, and the “belle” he
enthralled was a well-seasoned widow.
*# * *
Plain Bill Holloway is a lucky man, and
the Beautiful Essie Jenyns is a lucky woman.
They get a leading article all to themselves in
Saturday’s S.M. Herald, a paper which hitherto
has never given a column of “long primer” to
anything less important than the annual love-feast
of the deacons of the Little Bethel. ’Tis better to
be born lucky than rich.
* ## #
Nellie Farren says she sees very little dif-
ference between London and Melbourne. Just
the same old smirking bald-heads in the stalls;
just the same scented billets-doux piled up in her
drawing-room; and just the same effusive rhap-
sodies in the papers. The enterprising manage-
ment squared the “critics,” the first thing, by
chicken-and-champagning at the Oriental. Most
of the guests arrived home with the milkman in
the grey dawn.
*# * #
The story of Mr. Dion Boucicault’s divorce
has just come to an end. It was the venerable
tale of the old wife and the new, and Dion comes
out of the business very badly. According to a
biography which he himself circulated in Aus-
tralia, “he was married to Miss Agnes Robertson
in New York shortly after her arrival in that
city, which took place at the end of the year
1853,” and consequently his attempt to deny her
right to bear his name was the thinnest excuse
possible for his bigamous second man iage. The
beautiful Agnes Robertson built the greater part
of his fortunes, and as her leward she was cast
aside when her youth was past that the ancient
dramatist might confer his wrinkled paw on Miss
Thorndyke. The papers now allude to him a
good deal as an “ unprincipled ruffian ” and tldngs
of that sort, and they seem to be about as near
right in doing so as any paper can hope to be in
this world.
## * *
Mrs. Langtry has come a nasty dramatic
cropper at the Californian Theatre, and intends
spending the summer quietly on one of her
ranches. We wouldn’t care to be lord-in-waiting
to the Lily under these circumstances, because
nothing in the world is more trying than a “star”
lady forced into temporary retirement. Years
ago the writer visited at a house in the Camden-
road, London, where gentle Ellen Terry was a
lodger. The inspired Elk n was “off” the stage
(per arrangement with her first husband, G. F.
Watts, R.A.) at that time, and she had a way of
getting very fractious with her maid, the meals,
and life in general. Ellen, in short, raised a
polite Sheol when things vexed her, which they
generally did when there were no visitors to talk
of the beautiful world far a way behind the
footlights. Speaking of visitors, reminds us that
Mrs. Watts (the people of the house regarded
Ellen as an interesting young widow) gave little
suppers now and again. She was holding festival
one memorable night when we - O ! foolish heart
—called to pay our visit to the first-floorers. Fair
Ellen occupied the ground floor front, and when
we knocked there was a pause in the revelry, and
a silvery voice cried, “That must be Charlie !” A
fairy footfall on the landing, a hurried opening of
the front door, a hasty “ Charlie !” —and the
beautiful vision went straight for us. But for a
beastly ray of light from the festive chamber,
Ellen Terry would have hugged us in mistake for
the happy expected one. She looked surprised,
but not exactly mad, for at that time we were a
kissable youth enough under any circumstances.
We can see her now, blushing and smiling in
theatrical confusion, and a clinging wrapper of
palest blue. Golden hair hung down her shoulders
in admirable disorder. We often sit and think of
the treat we just escaped, and wonder whether
“Charlie ” was the Charles Kelly that Eden sub-
sequently married and wearied of.


Dear Bulletin, Sorry to have to correct
you. I have seen broadcloth duds stacked at the
triangles—once. I’ll mention no names, but state
generally that somewhere in the Red Sea we were
under martial law, and, to prevent drunkenness,
sailors invariably got one dozen for being found
drunk in the bazaar. This was the order of the
C. jn-C. How, by chance, a. skipper of a splendid
vessel—a toney man, in fact, quite a swell —got
into the calaboose. Next day he defied the Pro-
vost Marshal to flog him. (I believe you were at
the High School, Edinburgh, with Major 1).)
Scotch Provost Marshals do not care to be defied.
Nevertheless it’s an awful thing to be flogged by a
n'gger ITiiLwr Airrrv.
PRICE OF
WARNER'S SAFE CURE REDUCED,
A reduction of Sixpence per Bottle on all of
Warner’s Safe Remedies takes place after this date.
Consumers should" remember this when pur-
ohftsinsr the MerHeineu
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors*
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
biit.iis. Horses and buggies for hire.
PEPPC
ANDR
SALT
It blows alike on the just and the unjust,
but, as a rule, the unjust seem to hang on better, and
when a' man is borne along the street on the wings
of a howliDg gale it is generally pretty safe to bet
that he is just. Still this rule does not always
apply. At Eingsbridge (Eng.), one cold day a
little while ago, a sinful earthly circus, with a
carnal menagerie attached, came along, and the
Salvation Army, hearing of it, resolved to combat
the lusts of the flesh by holding a meeting
close outside the big tent. The two shows
started at once, and while the bray of
the cornet and the whack-fol-de-rol of the
Hallelujah drum were in progress outside
the showman in vain endeavoured to explain the
habits of the hyama, and to draw attention to
that animal’s custom of swallowing himself when
closely pursued, and split his voice over an anec-
dote about how a guileful animal of this Species,
having been aggravated by a hunter one hot day in
foreign parts, reached the house of that swift and
annoying person by a circuitous track and ate his
family before he got home, and then sat up in the
drawing-room and laughed. Just here the show-
man grew aggravated himself, and turning out
the two big elephants he sent them walking right
through the howling Army which was scattered
in all directions, but before he had done chuckling
over his success a tremendous gust of wind
doubled the circus up and carried it into the next
parish. This looks like poetic justice, but as it is
not stated whether the Salvation forces were
blown away also it is impossible to decide whether
it is the genuine article or not;
• * *
It is stated that the genial Mahdi’s “run-
ning footman” has compelled the European
prisoners to work in the arsenal at Khartoum,
where they are kept in chains. Should their work
not give satisfaction they are put to fearful tor-
tures, such as being partially hanged and then cut
down. At the same time news comes by mail that
fresh and important evidence has been obtained
regarding Lee, the alleged Babbacombe mur-
derer, who was hanged three times and then sen-
tenced to imprisonment for Jife, and there seems
to be a chance that that much-suspended individual
may at last be discharged without a stain on his
character. The tambourine : -
A person who says in his signature that he
is “ Barracouta,” and who, we presume, is the
best judge of the fishiness of his own identity,
writes to the thrilling page of the North-
Western Chronicle (Tas.) to say that we are
the Lost Tribes of Israel, and that being such we
must hang on to the adored mother country. Having
thus raised his tail in testimony, “ Barracouta ”
proceeds as follows :
“ Woe to any one who would dare violate the grand
primary principle of our great British Constitution. I
believe that the British Monarchy must endure ; it is
enshrined in the great heart of the nation, and has been,
moreover, ordained by Gcd hitaself, who said of the
Throne of David, ‘ I will establish the throne of his king-
dom for ever ’ (2 Sam. vii., 12-16) and many other pas-
sages of Scripture are to the same effect. Another his-
torical evidence. The Gentile nations of the earth—the
nations of Europe— are all armed to the teeth, and the
world seems ready for a grand explosion. Britain stands
passive and apparently careless. The Scripture says of
Israel that they should live with ‘ unwalled villagers,’
< carelessly in the isles,’ and while they should not be
without proper protection it is within the range of pro-
bability that a higher power than the Horse Guards
authorities may be accountable for our so-called unpre-
paredness.”
Use your Intelligence.
Look for the Name.
Aceoi>l
><» other
Tlinn WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
It is the best Hr Ink, bar
NOME.
Tested by Chemists,
lias never been Equalled,
WOLFE’S ABQMATIC SCIINAPP’S the
Original Genuine Article.
lfeeoiiimended by Physicians.
Largest Sale of any Spirit.
IMlnli Nothing Else.
As far as one can sort out this theory J ’rovidence
causes Britain’s guns to burst because she is the
Lost Tribes of Israel, and appoints the Duke of
Cambridge as Commander-in-Chief because it is
ordained that the mislaid sons of Jacob shall have
an elderly born foul with an umbrella to look after
her defences. This idea never occurred to us be-
fore, but still it looks very probable The dense-
ness of the supreme British horse-marine seems
too elaborately compound to be purely accidental,
but if his ignorance of everything except how to
draw his .screw has been designed and led up to
ever since his remote ancestor was thrown out of
Samaria there is nothing left to wonder
at, except that 2500 years of time should
have been wasted in the preparation of a man
w'ho, after all this elaborate training, shows
no points of superiority over the duffer who has
built his own stupidity without any overruling
Providence to make him an ass. But, on the
other hand, it may be that Britain is as yet only in a
preliminary stage of military incapacity, and that
some paralytic warrior is even now in preparation
who will fulfill the destiny of the bounced clans of
Canaan by turning their bayonets into corkscrews
and their big guns into stomach-pump o , and then,
having put his trust in Providence, will fill himself
with bottled stout and buttered crab at midnight,
sit down on the verge of the abyss, and wait results.
For a fat old man without head or feet, we can con-
ceive few easier billets than to be gaffer of the
Lost Tribes, and snore heavily over the ancient
prophecies which tell that nation to hang itself up
to dry, and not to worry about things,
# * •
For a poor, mean, colonial cripple
commend us to the “ religious ” journalist.
He is an animal of mixed ideas, and in nine
cases out of ten he doesn’t know Pompey
from consumption, and he has to send along to
Smith, who carts mud and lives next door but
one, when he wants to find out who discovered
America. Generally Smith sends back to say
A COPYRIGHT IDEA.
that he did it himself, and the chances are that
the editor believes him. But when Smith is out
or drunk, and the oracle won’t speak, facts are
apt to go astray, and then there are unprofitable
times for the man who drags his, oats out of the
Archimedean lever. One of these frozen ex-
periences seems to have descended recently on a
Melbourne organ of the saints, the editor whereof
put both feet in the ink- pot and wrote :
“ It is sad to read that Buskin, the historian, and
against whom the Hon. John Boyce, when Minister for
Justice in N.Z., brought an action in the Home Law
Courts for libel (whi.jh he successfully prosecuted) has
now been committed to a lunatic asylum. His acutely
critical mind is breaking down, and he now amuses, him-
self by clanging bells throughout the weary hours of day-
light insanity.”
Ruskin, as it proves, isn’t a lunatic after all ; and
Rusden, a poor little ex-Victorian Civil servant
who is no more like the great critic than a boiled
flounder is like the Confucian faith, isn’t either,
though perhaps he wishes he were; and Bryce—
who isn’t Boyce, and who wasn’t a Minister of
any kind on the occasion referred to—had; no more
idea of prosecuting Ruskin than he had of digging
the Pope in the rib< and asking after the old
woman and the family. Men and things w ere
never worse mixed up since the days, when Marius
hung out his solitary shirt to dry on the dis-
mantled temples and overturned tanks of Cathage.
THE SONO OF LEE.
Ob, they copped me for the slaughter,
And they clapped me in a cell,
Not again to see the daylight
Till the execution-bell
Tolled the hour ; and as the note of woe
Around the gaol-walls clanged,
The world at large should hear the news
That Mr. Lee was hanged.
Not for me manilla neckties,
For the hemp-is not yet grown,
And to tie the sort of knot they want
The art is not yet known ;
Oh, they fitted on the hemp cravat,
And thought my life was gone,
But they cut me down alive, and that
Was hanging Number One.
Oh, fix the merry knot again,
A bran-new rope uncoil,
And let’s have no more hitches, or
This hanging you will spoil.
So they worked me off. The hangman said,
“Now, this time, it will do.”
But it didn’t, so they hauled me up
For hanging Number Two.
Oh |fix the merry knot again,
The festive bolt withdraw,
Lee, I submit, you shouldn’t bring
Contempt upon the law !; ”
A law-abiding citizen
You see in Mister Lee.
“ Work off.” They did, and failed, and that
Was hanging Number Three.
They gave it best, and here I am
To sing right merrily
The rope’s not yet been made to snap
The neck of Mister Lee ;
Then scrape the fiddle, kick the jig,
And let the drum be banged.
Fill up. Who’d not be merry, when
He’s been just three times hanged ?
Aboriginalities.
The Imperial Court at Lsipsic recently sat
to hear an appeal case concerning a farmer who
had violently and comprehensively darned and
otherwise cursed at an ox, and the blaspheming
agriculturist was sent to gaol for three months.
Let the Australian contemplate the hideous effect
of such a law on the local bullock driver, and then
weep and pay for cablegrams, if he can, about the
dead monarch of such an appallingly-bossed
people.
« •
The town of Molong (Jf.S.W.) was filled
one day last week by the mournful cry of a
swindled Chinaman who had been left, and what
artist could do justice to that hollow wail of a
great heartbroken heathen, as he cried in a loud
voice in the middle of a strange land '! Seated oh
the top of a quantity of fish in a cart, he screamed
till he thought he was dead, and the burden of
his lamentation echoed in short metre through the
alleys and bye-ways of the lazy little township.
He was a broad, corpulent Chinaman, who had
wallowed for years in the fat of the land, and he
drove luxuriously through the lonely thorough-
fares lifting the rafters of the great Forevermore
with his stentorian yell of “ Fish, oh! ” Some dis-
tance behind him there toiledalong ola foot another
son of opium—a gaunt, dejected heathen whose
joints were telescoped together with the burden of
two hundredweight of flounders and similar pro-
duce, and he also took up the cry of “ Fish, ho !”
in a hollow, consumptive treble j but every time
he opened the waste places of his face to raise his
wail the cumbersome idolater in the cart drowned
his utterance, and consequently he found it im-
possible to do business. The Chow on wheels
kept ahead and scooped the trade, and the per-
spiring Turanian who travelled on his own flat
feet could actually hear his stock-in-trade turning
bad in the sun and could do no business. Then
the blighted fish-infantry braced himself for a
desperate effort, and, bursting into a run, he ran
until he was far ahead, and out of sight.
And as the fat Tartar in the dray shook
the town with his cry of “ fish ali, ho ! ” and the
people came out in advance with plates and dishes
they found a subservient Chinee at their gates who
bowed and explained, “Me sellum fis’; me pay
him feller shoutee out.” They were taken in by
this mean device, and that was how a thin gaunt
Chinaman went home with two empty baskets and
a pile of loose change, while a fat and crestfallen
heathen finished the day with 1 lllbs. of odorous
fish and a sense of unutterable rage and ferocity
gnawing at his entrails.. And when he raised his
voice on high and called upon Confucius in his
shining home to send down a separate blast of un-
quenchable fire on every hair of the other China-
man’s head, and to curse each individual fish he
had sold and every fish he might sell for evermore,
and to, scatter his business relations to the four
winds, the people of Molong only laughed at the
vast outcast in his agony.
* * *
It is always gratifying to find traces of
religious sentiment in the bosoms of a neglected
race, and consequently we are glad to learn that
the black Australian didn’t generally eat his
mother-in-law. Native etiquette, according to a
gentleman named Curr, who has j|ust published a
volume on the dried-up remains of what was once
a nation, permitted the mother to eat the chil-
dren, or the children to make a light lunch off
their female progenitor, and brothers-in-law,
sisters-in-law, uncles, nephews, aunts, nieces,
grandfathers, grandchildren, brothers, and sisters,
could “ scrag ” each other and dine on the remains
without being guilty of coarseness or discourtesy;
but the mother-in-law wasn’t an article of diet.
Even among the rude tribes who wandered in the
solemn, dark-green bush and waded through
rivers whose names were as hard to get over as an
attack of leprosy complicated with paralysis, this
female was respected, and though a hard winter
might descend upon her relatives, making ’possum
scarce and grubs almost unprocurable, she was
allowed to go on her tough old way comparatively
unmolested. Now and then, of course, she was
hit on the back with a club, but it was never done
in the way of business, but only for the fun of
seeing her jump.
* * ©
“ Wanted, a young man with £l6 and
good gun to join hunting party ; good rations ; no
work; constant.” When our eagle eye alighted
upon the above, which appeared a short time back
in a Sydney daily, we regretted that we had spent
so much of our valuable time in the dull routine
of grinding out verses upon the beauties of “ our
His. (>d. pants, cut artful over the trotter-cases.”
Now our only regret is that we did not practise
upon the scalp of the promoter of that little
“ hunting” party ere we started to chase the agile
marsupial.
Dear Bulletin, —If you don’t hear from
me again, put it down to nay having deserted and
joined the Salvation Army. lam induced to take
this step by two items in the War Cry :
Ist. “ Hallelujah from Black-pudding Lucy and others. ’
To have lived half a century, and not to have
known “ Black-pudding Lucy ” shows that I have
indeed been on the wrong path.—
2nd. “We had a sweeping march through the Conti-
nent, not a single hair of our heads has fallen to the
ground in spite of our ignorance of the language, and not
being able to ask for water or food.”
I also travelled through the Continent, and (it is
some time ago) fail to remember shouting either
for water (as a beverage) or food. I know the
taste of every uine in Europe, and can advise my
co-religionists as to Protestant rum and Catholic
beer. Therefore, Q E.D. —Scotty the Wbinkler.
* #
John Eyers, who died suddenly at Bathurst
recently, was an old Western identity. He left
much money—made chiefly by dispensing liquor
at an old-fashioned Bathurst hostelry known as
the “First Nugget” Inn, a name conferrtd on it
in connection with an interesting incident in the
history of N.S. Wales. When Dr. Kerr brought
the first lump of gold from his station on Louisa
Creek—where it was found by a blackfellow —into
Bathurst, he carried it to the office of the Free
Press newspaper, which was then in Wiliiam-
street, near the present City Bank. After being
fearlessly handed round amongst the crowd, the
precious mass was taken to the inn close by and
duly christened in the orthodox bush fashion, and
thus the hottse obtained the name, “The First
Nugget Inn. ” Old John Eyers had one well-known
peculiarity. He lent out money on mortgage of real
property, but no man could induce him to accept
more or less than 8 per cent. If a borrower sug-
gested more—say, 10—John would not look at the
transaction, being of opinion that there must be
something shady where more than- 8 per cent,
would be offered.
THE WAIL OF THE KANGAROOLST.
We yearned for occupation
With good remuneration,
And—welcome stipulation—no work and con-
stant, too.
So we found an ancient rifle
(Well —the truth we cannot stifle) —
’lwas an unconsidered trifle and the owner not on
view.
Then, to further our ambition,
And to purchase ammunition,
We addressed a politician (with a pawnshop)
whom we knew
Was a trifle tender-hearted,
(Just for shent pir shent he parted),
Then with eagerness we started forth to scalp the
kangaroo.
But, alas ! we grew dejected
By the waste of shot projected
At the kangaroos protected by the vileness of our
aim,
And our language was improper
When we saw the wily hopper
Strike defiance with his flopper as he steered
across the plain.
Oft we cursed our occupation
As we mopped the perspiration,
And, with fierce determination, followed on our
weary chase,
Whilst the kangaroos kept hopping
Never turning, seldom stopping,
And the prickly scrub kept chopping little samples
from our face.
Over rocks and stumps we scrambled,
Breathless o'er the flat we ambled,
Whilst the gay marsupials gambolled all serenely
to the fore;
Every mile or so they squatted,
’Gainst their lives we deeply plotted,
Bub our game the “ old man ” spotted ; then he
split the air once more.
And our reason almost totters
Through our squabbles with the squatters,
And their watchful bound'ry-trotters who were
always on our track :
Ah ! our anger quite intense is
When we think of the expenses
For imaginary fences we were charged with
making slack.
But the squatters’ wrath, though brimful
Of expressions that were sinful,
Never made us feel so simple as the dreaded
“ Cocky ” who,
In language truly awful,t
Tried to prove it wasn’t lawful
To fill his stud goats’ jaw full of a charge of
No. 2.
Still;our troubles were extended
Wheh, with ammunition ended
And oun ready cash expended, .we’d no tucker in
■the bag;
Then we started on the morrow,
Weighted down with care and sorrow,
For in vain we’d tried to borrow on the remnants
of our swag.
So tve struck for home and “ Toohey,”
And we never dropped our “ bluey ”
Till we came within a coo-ee of the fields of
Waterloo.
Now (don’t rush the situation),
For a small consideration,
We will furnish information hoiv to hunt the Jean-
garoo.
H.H.C.


Personal Items.
Old John Tait left £24,296.
Mrs. Rappiport is to be tried in Melbourne
on the 16th July.
Essie Jenyns’ father was once an apothe-
cary at Newtown, Sydney.
Mr. Melton Prior, of the Illustrated
London News, arrived by the Alameda.
“ Bob ” Mostyn, sporting editor of the
Sydney D.T., is slowly recovering from typhoid.
The mother-in-law of
the manager of a big N.Z.
bank is an inmate of the
local poorhouse.
Th ere are two natives of
Bathurst, N.S.W., 1 in the
Australian Eleven now in
England, Bonnor and
Turner.
Melbourne Herald says
Kaiser William was chival-
rous to old women. This ac-
counts for his partiality to
ballet-girls.
Mr. Edmund Finn, late
editor of Melbourne Punch,
has netted a few thousands
by a land spec.; he row
means to eschew journalism
and live respectably.
Tnat alleged humorist,
Air. District Court Judge
Dowling, who has been
nearly 40 years in the
N.S.W. Goverrment ser-
vice, during 27 of which lie
has occupied a seat upon the
Bench, intimates that this
may be his last year of office.
Mr. John Weeds,
M.L A., writes : “ The
Bulletin of 21st June is
mistaken. I was in the Vic-
torian Parliament in 1859
and ’6l and Sir Charles
A 1 Mahon is not in at pre-
sent. Of the present mem-
bers, only La)or, AULellan,
L. L. Smith and myself
werej members before 1861. ”
“Jimmy” Thompson has just returned
from London looking lovely. He is said to have
everything ready for starting an evening news-
paper in time for the opening of the Exhibition.
Yet another evening newspaper— in the interests
of Bent and O’Loghlen-is on the tapis in Mel-
bourne.
“ Locky ” (Lachlan) M‘Bean, the Riverine
<sa natter who, the other day, wrote a letter recom-
mending that the machinations of the N.S.W.
Shearers’ Union be dealt with by means of a
Crimes Act, owns between 380,000 and 390,000
acres of splendid country. “ Locky ” has a some-
what romantic history.
The good young man who died is not
strongly in the British peerage at
present. Almost the only nobleman answering
the description is Earl Russell, aged 24, who is a
vegetarian, a Spiritualist, and a Rechabite, and
■doesn’t play cards, cuss, or holler, or otherwise
paint his surroundings red.
In collaboration with Mr. Percy Hurlburd,
Tennyson Smith, now of Melbourne, has perpe-
trated a novel entitled “The. Story of Jim the Pen-
man ” founded on the late Sir Chas. Young’s famous
play’ of the same name. The book will shortly be
issued by the Centennial Publishing Co., Mel-
bourne, and will appear almost simultaneously in
London.
Oaman Digna got off better than usual in
Ms last battle. Generally he is killed, and his
followers utterly dispersed and pursued several
-'hundred miles, but on this occasion he was only
■severely wounded in the foot. The fact is that
■billing only makes him healthier and more
ferocious, so the cable-liar has resolved to try if he
■can’t be crippled instead.
Mr. W. H. Bennett, formerly of Sydney,
was arrested in Melbourne the other day on a
■charge of misguided ambition. Mr. Bennetts
weakness is alleged to have consisted in a desire
■to own other people’s snakes, and he had several
ain his possession which w ere believed to be some-
body else’s “ varmint.” He was mn in and for-
mally accused of having stolen a quantity of
ureptiles.
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley -keeps on the
■even tenor of his way, unmoved by the vapouring*
■of the Victorian Bar. Epithets such. as like a
■nig ” applied to him by one refined advocate, and
'“a judicial carpet-bagger,” a happy inspiration of
■a learned gentleman who is facile princeps at
--slanging people in the Jury-court, pass by the
■knight as the idle wind which he regardeth
mot. Even a judge can stand a lot of vituperation
■for £250 a month.
Henry Moore, M.L.C., who has recently
gone over ”at 75 years of age, was a native of
iN S W and was educated by—amongst others—
The late Dr Lang. Air. Moore was nominated to
Vhe Upper House in 1868 by the Martin Ministry,
but like a large number of the members of the
mominee Chamber he was simply a voting-
machine. As a citizen he was much respected.
He was for many years agent at Sydney for the
IP. and O. Company.
Kong Meng, the merchant, notwithstand-
ing his culture and varied accomplishments, is
about the most Chineselooking Chinaman in
Melbourne. Seen in his counting-house m Little
■ Bourke-street, there is little to distinguish him
from the porters and clerks who surround him.
■Kong Aleng, who.was born m Hongkong, and is,
therefore, a British subject, invariably wears full
'Chinese costume. He is simply idolised by Ms
Victorian fellow-countrymen.
Hon. Janies Chisholm, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
•of Kippilaw, near Goulburn, who .died last week
-.St the advanced age of 80 years was a member d
■the old mixed Council in 1857, but did not join
•the present Upper House till 1864. There are
- several members, still living bis seniors. _ We are
, not aware that he was eminent as a legislator or
that he has in any way inscribed Ms name upon
- the statute-book. He was, however, a large
breeder of good sheep, and m this way, perhaps,
somewhat assisted his adopted country.
Dr. Ullathorne, who, 50 years ago, was an
active Catholic priest in N.S.W., and who recently
at the age of 84 retired from the Bishopric of Bir-
minghS Eng., ha. been ceated by the Pope
Archbishop of Cabassa m Lower Egypt. Of
'course he will administer his archdiocese by
deputy. Dr. Ullathorne had some terrible ex-
periences of the horrors rf the N.S.W convict-
time. He relates how convicts who had hern
brought from Norfolk Island to Sydney for trial
and condemned to death, knelt down before him
and thanked God that they were to be hanged - it
was better to die than to be sent back to D 8 tor-
tured in such a hell on earth.
The distinguished Mr. Frederick H.
Co wen, who has come to Melbourne to superintend
the musical arrangements of the Exhibition, is an
oldish-locking and strikingly Jewish locking
young man of 36. Strangely enough, all the local
musicians are eager to do him honour, notwith-
standing that he is to get £5OOO of Treasury
money for his services. Mr. Cowen is a native of
Jamaica, and has been delighted to find two of
MR. RICHMOND THATCHER.—(See Page 5 )
his townsmen occupying prominent positions in
Melbourne, viz., Mr. J. Allison Smith, of the
Victorian Railways, and Henderson Africanus,
late Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Pleni-
potentiary from the Victorian people to the Im-
perial Government.
Mr. Eugene E. Aimin.k, who last week
retired from the position of Reuter’s agent at
Sydney, which he had honourably occupied for
six years, was for 10 years telegraphic editor of
the Argus at Melbourne, with the journalism tf
which city he was long connected. Air. Am-
sinck's retirement from Riuter's office is solely
due to private cable combinations entered into by
the various big newspaper proprietaries having
reduced the work of Reuter’s fium in Australasia.
Mr Amsinck is the son of an old'-time Victorian
po itician, a Royal Navy man, who represented
West'Bourkein the Assembly a qua iter of a cen-
tury ago In Air. Amsinck Reuter’s Company
have lost a most capable man. whose personal
popularity contributed much to the mccess of their
office.
OUR DEFENCES. THE LATEST IDEA FOR REPELLING AN INVASION.
The new Chief Commissioner for N.S.W.
Railways,;.is a (N)eddy. And some say that the
.man who appointed him is another. Hee, haw !
•Apropos of the big batch of magistrates
with whicMSin Psalmyell Griffith cursed Queens-
land just before he was fired qut. A certain com-
mercial traveller; having taken his seat _at the
table of an up-country hotel in company with four
or five of the newly-appointed Solons, discon-
tentedly asked if there were no green peas to be
had. To which a bluff, wealthy, North of Ireland
man promptly replied: “No, but be jabers, we
have plenty of Jay-P.’s now, an’, God knows,
they’re green enough for anything. ”
In the course of a recent debate Parkes
arose and wiped his hand on the tail of his coat,
and remarked, in his usual plain language, that ar
certain property in N.S.W. was owned by the
“ land-sharpers ” of Melbourne, and the Star is
now in an inquiring mood. It wants to know
whether a land-sharper is a man who buys a piece
of land at a low figure, and then mortgages it for
a good deal more than the purchase-money, and
then mortgages the equity of redemption, and
next puts a third mortgage on it, and finally leases
it to a lot of poor men and old women to whom he
cannot give a title and whose little savings are
consrqir n L, y locked up if not swallowed up.
POLITICAL
PONITS
In the city of Melbourne land was last
week sold at £1,901 per foot.
The N.S.W. anti-Chinese agitators have
enlisted the aid of the bagpipes. That ought to
scare the Chows.
Thj naval estimates of Germany now
amount to 121 millions annually as against £120,000
spent by Prussia in 1830.
Statistics prove Tasmania to be the
s< barest colonv of the group, so that “The tight
little Bland ’’ is a misnomer.
The Argils intimates, in a leading article,
that it is a grave evil to- educate what it calls the
lower classes. Think of that. now.
The Bulb Company are at last to be pro-
ceeded against for damages by the widows of the
many miners killed in their col iery.
Nmian Mtlville rode a whitey-brown horse
in the van of the Sydney anti-Chinese procession
last Saturday. Death on the pale moke.
New Zealand now has a public debt of
£36,758,437, the annual charge whereon is
£1,858,000, of which the railways only return
£350,000.
The N.S.W. Government la'ely dismissed
men from the railway and tramway service who
were getting 7s. per day and took them on again
in a week or two at 6s. per day.
The Bill to authorise the construction of a
tunnel between England ap 1 France has again
been rejected by the Commons by 142' votes.
Gladstone supported the scheme.
Misery has fallen like a pall over the
N.S.W. back-country. The rabbit-killing subsidy
will cease on 31st July, after which da'e hundreds
will be added to the list of unemployed.
“ Whenever you hear a N.S. W. politician
declaring in the ,’Ouse ’is hintention to die in the
struggle, beware lest his object be to live—out of
you.” —Pearl of Wisdom by the Courtney.
At a political banquet at Bairnsdale (Yic.j
the other night, the President had to playfully re-
quest Dr. L. L. Smith, M.P., to “let the girls
alone back in the corner there.” No wonder the
young men don’t feel well.
Major-General Richardson, in charge of
the N.S.W. forces, gets £690 a year salary, and
allowances. Two of the Imperial military officers
now serving under the N.S.W. Government,
draw £BOO a year each, and allowances.
Of the 22 members constituting the Legis-
lative Council of N. S. Wales in 1861 but three
remain : Sir William Manning, Mr. Wm. Byrnes,
and Air. John Brown Watt—Air. Byrnes being
the only one who has held the seat continuously.
J. P. Abbott says the connection with the
mother country is Australia’s only source cjf
danger. Not so. Another. great source of danger
is the politician who, knowing that the Imperial
ponnection is a swindle, refrains from, acting up to
his belief.
Italy is keeping her armaments well
abreast of those of, the other great Bowers. .She
has got a new ironclad of ,22,000 horse power, and
Krupp's firm is manufacturing for this vessel a
gun of 139 tons, which is 52J feet long and has a
bore of marly 16 inches.
An Albury Banner advt. : —“ Notice to
squatters and selectors. Jimmy Ah Kew, with a
staff of 100 men, is ready to take up contracts,
clearing scrubs, burning off, grubbing, &c. Ad-
dress, Jimmy Ah Kew, Contractor and Store-
keeper, Wahgunyah, Victoria.”
The new Emperor of Germany intends to
break down the barriers dividing classes in the
Vaterland. Just so. And in the meantime
50 Socialists have been cast into dungeons at
Hamburg and Leipsic for pointing out that class
distinctions necessarily radiate from the Throne.
Of the 72 members who constituted the
Legislative .Assembly of N. S. Wales in 1861 but
four now bold sea's. They are : Messrs. Buch-
anan, Burns, Garrett, aud Sutherland. Mr.
B uns how. ver, is the on I}' 1 }' ore who has held the
seat continuously and for the same electorate —the
Hunter.
The first local-option polls held in Vic-
toria have been practically declared to be null and
void by th 9 Supreme Court. By the irony of
fate, the verdict which procaines the Licensing
Act to he unworkable, hai been pronounced by
Justice Kerferd, who, as Attorney-General, was
responsible for the accurate drafting of the
me i sure.
Governments show bad examples. The
N.S.W. Government was very reluctant to let the
Chinese land though shown by the Supreme
Court that the detention was illegal ; and the
Victorian Government refuse to classify a certain
grade of State school teachers, although the
Supreme Court has decided that they are under a
legal obligation to do so.
The present Victorian Government will
probably last until the general election next
March, and then there will be a fresh deal of the
cards. People are sick of Coalition Ministries—
of peace without honour—and the next Victorian
Cabinet will be formed exclusively of Liberal and
Protectionist members. Before tfie inevitable
crash comes, Mr. Gillies will probably “accept”
the Agent-Generalship.
The first Responsible Government jn
N.S.W, jn 1856, of which Stuart Alexander
Donaldson was the head, lasted 11 weeks. The
next, with ‘(Slippery” Charley Cowper at its
head, lasted five weeks, and the third, headed by
Henry Watson Parker, whose widow has just died
at an advanced age in England, lasted 11 months.
“ Slippery ” Charley again c xme into power, and
reigned with more or less - considerably le;s —suc-
cess for two years.
While the advantages to be derived from
the Centennial Exhibit'on are at least prob*
lematical, the enormous expenditure is already a
stupendous and appalling reality. Protest is now
being made against the reckless and criminal ex-
travagance and looseness which have'marked the
dbbursements all through. The Exhibition, from
first to last, will cost Victoria much over £300,000,
tjiere will be a clear deficit of at lea-t a
quarter of a million.
The heathen Chinee, according to Mr.
Graves, the Victorian M.L.A.. practises wavs
that are dark even at the polling-booth. Mr.
Graves once enquired how it came about that his
opponent received 36 Chinese votes when only 15
lepers attended the poll. The explanation was
simple enough—“Oh, when Chinaman votee he
go outside, changee him jumper, changes him hat,
go in and votee again allee same.” Which re-
minds us that fraudulent personation might be pre-
vented by tattooing every leper with a Govern-
ment number. A lot of white men might also
with advantage bear the Government numbSr so
far as personation is concerned.
Last year N.Z. paid £10,744 in State
pensions given on the meagrest of grounds :
“ Mr. Domett received £559 a year, so that his
death was a benefit to the colony. Sir William
Fitzherbert, who has lived on the colony for years,
takes £456 per annum. Mr. Gisborne, who lives
in London and writes sneering accounts of our
public men, gets £460 a year ; and Mr; Pollen, a
useless, forgotten, fossilised old fegey, draws £4lB a
year, and has the impudence to put up his back
because his honorarium was 1 docked ’ a trifle in
the‘Lords.’” Altogether there are 111 persons
acting the part of human leeches and bleeding
this unfortunate country to the amount of nearly
£20,000 a year.”
Twenty-one mem-
bers of the New Zealand
Parliament drink water
only.
Much fuss has been
made because Mr. J. C.
Neild, N.S.W. Honorary
Executive Commissioner
to the recent Adelaide
Exhibition, has so far not
found time to account in
detail for some £5OO out
of the £4OOO placed at his
disposal d urine the 12
months of his stay in
Adelaide. How did the
£5OO. go? Well, probably
a lot of it went in drinks
for all hands and other
incidental expenses. Very
likely J.C N. has qui e
forgotten how it wenu
We should, under the
circumstances.
Apropos of Mr.
Wise's remarks as to the
condition of labour in
Massachusetts, “Phineas
Thompson,” writing to a
daily paper, asserts that
“ the savings banks in the
little protected state of
Massachusetts have _ a
larger amount of deposits
than those of Freetride
Great Britain and New
South Wales combined
have in theirs. Further,
the Massachusetts sav-
ings banks have more
money at deposit than
would be represented by
the total value of Great
Britain’s savings banks
deposit and the reserve
of the Bank of England
The Imperial authorities want New Zea-
land to re-consider its determination to reduce
the'“screw” of future' governors to £5OOO an
nually. The island colony, however, declines the
invitation. A £5OOO governor, it ■ states, is quite
large enough for all requirements, and the old
£7500 site makes the country tip up at one side.
If there isn’t any £5OOO governor in stock, the Im-
perial authorities may send along a smaller one,
but the people of Maoriland wish it to be dis-
tinctly understood that they wont have the
cocked hat of state bulged out and split by any
more overgrown British figureheads. If another
of them comes along he does it at his own risk ;
and if the colonial throne caves in beneath-his
weight and lets him down in the centre, and he is
suffocated before he can get out, his action will be
held to be entirely voluntary and the funeral will
be of the most unobtrusive description.
At Parramatta a young man named Wood
has been attacked by a boar and seriously injured.
We are often attacked by bores, but they never
injure us :
An editor calm —a poet mild —
I’ve brought “The Song of an OrphanCheild ;
A papier-weight—a sickening thud —
And we’re knee-deep in the poet's blood.


“The Dear out Mother Country.”
BRITISH LIC N: “EGAD, KANGAROO-TA L SOUP IS MOST LUSCIOUS. I THINK I’LL TROUBLE YOU FOR A BIT OF THE STUMP, JOEY.”
AUSTRALIAN KANGAROO: " I AM AFRAID THERE WON’T BE MUCH OF ME LEFT SHORTLY AT THIS RATE.”
B.L.; REMEMBER, SIR, IT IS YOUR DUTY TO BE LOYAL AND FEED THE DEAR OLD MOTHER COUNTRY, AS LONG AS EVER YOU LAST.”


A Kind Eye for the Gentlemanly Offender,
CHORUS OF FIFTY-THREE M’s.P.: “PLEASE RELEASE UNTO US MR, HOLT.”
MINISTER OF JUSTICE CLARKE: “I PARTIALLY SEE MY WAY IN YOUR CASE, GENTLEMEN, BUT I AM QUITE BLIND IN MY OTHER EYE.”


FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
the use of Clements’ Frecklebanb
Freoklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clrmknts, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P.O»0. Sold by Washington Soul and all nhnmints.
i of worthlooß
Claremont, Darling-hurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff. Tor particulars apply to the lady Superin-
tended .*
Study your own interest by using Pemell’B Snow-whitb
Patent RolIiBR Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The finality is exceptionally (fond, and the price very low *
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED
Established 1863,
Are as usual showing the largesb an!
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prioei
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the fcllowlnc
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments
UESSL and LECBLEITE& PIM
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
EST£? I Co. mm ORGANS.
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere
ilustrated catalogues mailed on application bat
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING & GO-, Ltd.
ISB C^BORIS ,, ' tib-n, Daon from (Jl.p.G’
Society
The Australian sassiety scribbler has a
hopeless habit) of getting lost in that maze of
titular distinctions which is such a prom’nent
feature in the landscape of our British Constitu-
tion Melbourne, where flunkeydom threatens to
become a disease far more dangerous than diph-
theria, badly needs a Penny Peerage, with instruc*
tions for sorting out the aristocracy. Its growing
appetite for perlite knowledge is fed by paragraphs
of ignorance so pathetic that The Bulletin occa-
sionally steps forward to deliver our Southern
brethren from error’s chain. Did we not recently
reprove the Herald because the high-life reporter
for that pushing journal called the Earl of Buck-
inghamshire “ his grace”? Have we not explained
that Baronet Clarke is a much larger social potato
than the knights whose names appear equally im-
posing to readers not yet educated up to the
importance of distinguishing Sir William by his
little bart” And now it is again our melan-
choly duty to show up the sassiety scribe in all his
chuckleheaded awfulness. A Melbourne weekly
rag, which circulates in the besb kitchens, prints
this misleading morsel of genteel literature
“The Mtrquii of is a pereet gentleman
When a reporter wanted to interview him at Adelaide, his
grace’ offered to put on the gloves with hi n.”
It makes us tired. Que ns berry is a more exalted
fellow-creature than Buckinghamshire, but even
Queensberry is not a duke. And “ his grace ”is
a title peculiar to dooks and Protestant arch-
bishops. Now, Queensberry would come in as
‘ his lordship ” or the “ noble Marquis,” but if he
has lost his free pass to the House of Peers, we
suppose he is no longer the “noble Marquis”—
only the Marquis without the noble. We would
like to hear from him on this rather delicate ques-
tion, for, although all titles are but vanity, it is as
well to call a nobleman by his correct vanity. In
the meantime, we can only swear that the descen-
dant of “old Q.” doe 3 not claim to be “your
grace ”—a title sacred to English kings until
Henry the Mormon discarded it in favour of
“your majesty.” There is a vast deal of high-
toned lore in this paragraph.
* * *
The Victorian Governor will give two
frand balls and a dinner-party at Government
louse, during the first week of the Exhibition.
The expenses will of course be defrayed out of the
special grant of £5OOO promised by Mr. Gillies.
Dear Bulletin, —A week or two ago a
correspondent was complaining that Australian
agents were in the habit of advising nursery
governesses to try the colonies when there was no
real demand for them. Let me tell you that there
is always a class of mistresses who want just that
same item. This is the reason. The unsuspecting
nursery governess, or “lady’s companion,” is de-
coyed into the bush and taught to scrub and to
cook—this takes a week. She finds the cook and
the housemaid are leaving and substitutes coming.
The latter never come—twig ? I know a young
lady (who likes independence), sister-in-law to an
M.P., who was “ had ” in this way, and was com-
pelled to do her six months’ solitary. —Hiram
Abiff.
* * •
Mr. R. Burdett Smith, N.S.W. Commis-
sioner to the Victorian Centennial Exhibition, is
charming everybody in Melbourne, no less by the
suavity of his manners than by the graces of his
Srson. “ Take me and do right away,” says old
iddlewick in “Our Boys,” “and I’m ile—olive
ile ; but rub me agin the grain and I’m still ile—
hut ile o’ witrel.” It is one of the happiest traits in
Mr. Smith’s character that he 13 always “olive
ile.”
» * »
Apropos of “Jack’s” O.P. box, it would
seem that when Want comes in at the door love
goes out of the window.
* * *
Dear Bulletin,—This cancellation of Sut-
ton’s presentation at Court interests me, thus : I
believe that any one who has been presented can
visit at a levee, also that he is entitled to the
entree at foreign Courts (I don’t mean any side-
dish). Now, I propose humping my swag home,
as far as land reaches, and working my passage by
sea. On my way I shall certainly claim my privi-
lege of salaaming to the various nob 3. I was pre
sented to Tummy (acting for the Pre-eminent,
who was then pre-eminently pre-eminent) in ’64,
and they’ve had no chance of cancelling my paste-
board. What bothers me most is that I don’t
know whether the Lord Chamberlain reads the
list of Sydney drunks, and whether, say, the Boat
Harbour C.P.S. sends in his little cases, for if he
(the L.C.) does, then 111 attend no fancy-dres3
balls at Potsdam (blasphemy, whether cooking: or
paste-pots) as a Representative Australian Pas-
teured-out Rabbiter. They can’t touch your title,
and mine is, Scotty the Wrinkler.
* * «
Lord Reidhaven, of Oamaru (N.Z.), who
has just succeeded, on the death of his father, to
the earldom and estates of Seafield, with a rent-
roll of £BO,OOO a year and a seat in the House of
Lords, is a living and notable example of the ups
and downs of colonial life. Some 12 or 15 years
ago, when plain Mr. Grant, he was a well-to-do
farmer in Otago, and, as a boss cockie, those who
worked for him testify that he was a good and
liberal master. Reverses came to him, as to many
other N.Z. agriculturists, and Mr. Grant was, in
a short time, reduced from comparative affluence
to great poverty. He was so poor at
one time that he was compelled to earn
a living for himself and family by hawk-
ing fish in the streets of Oamaru, but
even then he “kept up his pecker” and his
native dignity so well that he was always known
among his fellow-townsmen as “ Gentleman
Grant.” He, no doubt, sacrificed his dignity and
reputation subsequently when he accepted the
office of bum-bailiff of the local R. M. court, but
even in that capacity he gained the respect and
goodwill of the victims of the law by the merciful
it somewhat irregular way iu which he discharged
the duties of his office. It is told of him that
many occasions when he had to take possessi
ot soine poor family’s household effects, he us
ts send out for liquid refreshments, and, aft
making merry with the household, infor
them that, like Hamlet’s father, it was his usua
custom to go to sleep of an afternoon, and to she c
ne accordingly went. The benevolent hint w
usually taken and the premises cleared of the r
contents before he awoke, and if some graspin
local Shylock didn’t get his pound of flesh
i B J? ap l- th , e children’s beds and beddin
and the little all of household goods, nobocy
out the typical usurer himself was particular
sorry. On becoming Lord Reidhaven with
moderate but sufficient income, he resignec
V s position as bailiff and aspired to a seat i
The Oamaruffians, howeve
? take kindly, in a political sense, to an ex
baihll, even if he was a lord, and he was twice re
jected at the poll by large majorities. It is sai
that the new Lari intends to continue to reside i
Uamaru where he has been known as a farmer
fish-hawker, bailiff, and My Lord, and if so i ;
may be a good thing for that beautiful bu
poverty-stricken white stone city. It remains t
be seen whether he will invest some of his grea;
wealth in the land where he knew an I experiencec
the very dregs of great poverty, and whether he
will again aspire to a seat in the colonial Parlia
ment. It forcibiy strikes us that it would be
good thing for that ancient and decrepid branch
of the Home Legislature of which he is now
member, if a few of the hereditary peers of the
realm of Great Britain and Ireland had ex
penenced some of the educational advantages
which have fallen to the lot of the new Earl of
Seaheld.
* * *
The saturnine Yale, M.P., of Ballarat,
went to Melbourne Princess’s the other night and
moved not a muscle of his face during all the
exquisite f oling of Nellie Barren and Bred Leslie.
When some one told Leslie this he said “Yale!
Vale ! Vale of tears, I suppose.”
* •
Butterine is what we now get on the toast
at our boarding-house in Sydney. It is made
from tallow and is fast supplanting butter in the
mouth of every young man who pays the artful
hash-founder so much a week for his keep But-
A CULINARY DRAMA.
YOUNG WIFE (at dinner table, sobbing): “I think you — you—are just as mean as—
as—you can be. I made that—that apple dumpling as a pleasant surprise
for you and—and now —you — want to bring a handsaw to cut it in two
with.’
YOUNG HUSBAND : “Good heavens, Maria ; is that a dumpling? I took it for a
cocoanut. (With desperate firmness): I’ll eat it, Maria, if it kills me.”
terine may be very wholesome stuff, but neverthe-
less its manufacture should, on grounds of public
policy, be made a penal offence in a country which
has hundreds of thousands of acres of good land
whereon to run milch cows. ' The fact that we
have to eat bull-grease on our bread instead of
cow-juice, in a land which is now said to be ex-
porting seres of tons of genuine butter to Hing-
land every week, proves amongst other things
that no cow has honour save out of her own coun-
try. Premier Parkes says that “ under the Act
42 Vic., No. 14, any person selling butterine as
butter in N.S.W. is liable to a fine of £20.” By
heavens ! When next Mrs. Smith, our hashlady,
passes to us the ox-oil after being meekly asked
for the butter, we will square in one fell swoop
our long-standing board-bill.
* * «
On the Sydney suburban railways there is
a special ticket-rate for working men, but not for
working women. A carpenter can travel between
Tempe and Redfern for a week for the sum of
Is. 9d., while a factory-girl is called upon to pay
2s. lOd.
The other day nine of the children of a
lady who died some years ago paid a Sydney
paper for inserting notices in memoriam of
their mother. Judging from the increasing fre-
quency with which such notices are now appear-
ing in the dailies, filial affection promises to be
one of the strong points of Young Australia. And
how enthusiastically the virtue in question will
be applauded by the newspaper proprietors !
* * *
Sydney now has a lady dentist—Miss
Hirsch, of William-street. Lovely woman is at
last going to turn to practical account her
monopoly of jaw.
* * *
Last week that historic building, old
Government House, Parramatta, erected by
Governor Macquarie in 1810, had a very narrow
escape from being destroyed by fire; the place
was only saved by the substantial character of
the dividing walls. “It is now,” we read, “in
the possession of a trust, and has descended from
a vice-regal mansion to a fashionable boarding-
house. ” So, for the matter of that, has the other
Government House.
• #
Judge Worthington, of Melbourne, rulec
in the case of Virgoe v. Bourke that an accusatio
of drunkenness is not slander according to law
Of course not; it is justified by acts of Parliamen .
* * *
Through the negligence or ungovernabl
humour of a compositor the letters “ R.I.P.
were attached to a marriage notice in a Gippslanc
(Vic ) paper one day last week.
• * *
“A Coffin” writes to the Melbourne
Herald on the always interesting subject o: :
undertakers’ men. It seems that wages run low
in the “wooden ulster” trade, also that the mer
have to work hardest on Sundays and holidays
further, that there is risk of the boss bringing
back germs in the pocket of his funereal frock
coat after he has called upon a customer to take
his last, last measure. It is impossible to pump
up any considerable flow of sympathy for “A
Coffin,” because his remedy is so attainable. Why
slave away at the gruesome boxes at all, when re-
productive labour is to be found for the searching ‘
The man who makes coffins the business of his
life is doing nothing whatever for the hury.an race,
for no corpse would give a thank you for the finest
work of art ever put in a hearse. The coffin-
maker reminds us of the miserable wretch who
buried his one talent in the ground and went
where there is weeping and gaashing of false-
teeth. Be a bona-fide carpenter, friend “
and only put in overtime at the other little busi-
ness. As regards wages-but more about this at
some future time.
* * •
There is at least one staunch female Re-
publican in the colonies. She lives in Melbourne,
and was engaged to a sign-writer till he broke her
head with a basin, in a fit of jealousy. She is
now obstinately determined to cut the painter.
The leading N.S.W. exponent of the lag-
time doctrine of anti-Victorianism is busy at the
congenial task of trying to prove that Melbourne
is just now in so unhealthy a state that those who
dare to visit the approaching big Exhibition will
take their lives in their hands. It points out that
from December, 1887, to June 14, 1888, there oc-
cured 278 cases of diphtheria, of which 131 proved
fatal; and, further, that there have, during one
recent week, been 21 cases of diphtheria reported
in Melbourne. There is also a good business doing
in typhoid, and when you get it at Melbourne, it
is only two chances to one that you recover.
Baronet Clarke was received into the
A.N.A. Melbourne branch one night last week
to the huge satisfaction of those members who
would make Imperial Federation a plank in the
platform of that young body impolitic. In the
course of his few remarks, Sir W. J. hoped “they
should be united as one to still keep up the golden
cause which joined them to the mother country,’
but if the exalted native understood what he
meant by “golden cause ” he didn’t “let on” to the
meeting. Perhaps he referred to Governor Loch’s
£lO,OOO a year.
• «* •
Mr. Samuel Vincent Winter’s latest effort
in progressive journalism is an attempt to revise
the Apostles’ Creed. He finds it a pretty tough
contract. The job was started by the “ un-
attached ” clergyman who has found a temporary
refuge—poor devil!—on the Herald staff, and
various contributions to the discussion have been
furnished by such representative clergymen as
Canon Stretch, and the Rev. Kinsman, of Fitzroy,
who will marry you and supply you with furniture
with the utmost dispatch and on the most rea-
sonable terms. The general public are regarding
the progress of the controversy with absorbing
interest.
* * *
There is, or used to be, in Brisbane an
ancient mariner who loved to look upon the rum
when it was red. He had a flagstaff in his garden
and sometimes he would hoist to the uttermost
top thereof a bottle : that meant that he was
drunk and consequently at home to no one, not
even to himself, By-and-bye the bottle would be
lowered and a brown tea-pot hoisted in its
place. That indicated that he was once more
partially sober.
* " *
Bismarck’s favourite tonic is blood-and-iron.
Boulanger, however, props up his system with
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove
have put their feet down on the dead head system.
JNot very long ago the chief of the reporting staff
of a Melbourne morning paper presented himself
at the dress-circle entrance of the Princess’ with
six ladies (more or less) and demanded free admis-
sion. The doorkeeper could not see it. “ I shall
report your insolence to Mr. Garner,” said the
irate journalist, swelling like a barn-yard rooster
when the ladies of his family are threatened with
a predatory attack. “Do so, by all means,’
replied the doorkeeper politely, and he did. Mr.
Garner expressed his enthusiastic approval of the
doorkeeper s conduct, and the newspaper man had
to part for five out of the six ladi s. When the
Amy S her win opera season was opened in Mel-
bourne a few weeks ago, Herr Hugo Gorlitz was
asked to forward twenty-two dress-circle season
tickets to a certain newspaper for the Opera
house, and he had to do it. Surely it is about
time that journals alluding to themselves as
respectable should set their faces against this
system, which seems to flourish now even as it did
at the time when, many years ago, old George
Coppin came to the footlights at Melbourne Royal
and said : “Ladies and gentlemen : it has pleased
the Bouroeois newspaper to brutally attack an
expensive show which seems to have met with
your hearty approval, and by means of which
show I and my partners have endeavoured to keep
things going in these bad times. Ladies and
gentlemen, I may state for your information that
the Lourgeois newspaper aforesaid has, at tie
present moment, in this house, no les3 than 11 re-
porters, all of whom came in free, and most of
whom brought a lady or two with them. Eleven
of the staff appear to like our show, but the
twelfth man slates it.” And then there’s the well-
authenticated story of the gentleman (up North)
who in the day-time taught the young ladies of
the boarding-school he kept, and at night acted as
theatiical critic for one of the newspapers. One
evening he turned up at the door of a certain
dre3S-circle at the head of a procession comprising,
amongst others, all the young ladies of He board-
ing-school in question, and demanded to go in free.
The door keeper was, however, a more diplomatic
rS T> n - an . T'iumvirate’s representative at
the Princess's. “ No, sir,” he remarked, in defer-
ential tones, “ I am sorry to have to sxy that we
can t pass 28 ladie3 ; the management have in-
structed me to let in only 2(>. You will have to
pay for two.”
* * *
So Professor Brown-Sequard is endeavour-
ing to detect poisonous germs in the human breath,
inis reminds one of the American story which
Irving used to tell of the man who invariably went
out to “ see a friend ” between the acts. Returning
from interview, our man whispered to his
wife—“ See that skunk right opposite in the second
row. Id like to see him drop dead.” And the
wife answered “Go and breathe on him, John —
very likely he will drop dead ”
• * *
A Swiss doctor of tremendous scope lias
ascertained that a cannon-ball, rolled over the
surface of the stomach for ten minute? each morn-
ing, previous to rising, is a certain cure for bilious-
ness. This discovery should give a huge impulse
to the horrid art of war. Hitherto the imple-
ments with which man harrowed up lrs fellow-
man have served no useful purpose when the
blood-stained campaign was not in progre is, but
if the tools of strife can be hired out by the day to
be used in promoting digestion a fund may be ac-
cumulated out of the takings which will enable
fortifications to be thrown up in many hitherto
unprotected spots. Moreover, the constant em-
ployment of the cannon-ball in time of peace will
familiarise the citizen with its use, so that when
he sees it coming towards him on the field of
slaughter he may know what it is, and will b 3 able
to make up his mind whether to catch it and take
it home with him, or get out of the way and let it
fall in the dirt. Thus a new aspect will be im-
parted to the awful din of national cataclysm, and
the arts of peace and war will be blended together,
and the doctor and the undertaker will lie down
together in pleasant harmony.
* «
At Newtown (Sydney) the landlady of a
boarding-house was last week fined for biting a
boarder who had given her notice of his intention
to leave. Thus is another terror added to the
hash-house.
* * *
In an article headed “The Cat as an
Analyst,” which is now going the round of the
papers, it is related that “recently a family was
nearly poisoned in Edinburgh by some sausages
A portion of the sausages was put before a cat
which had been allowed no food for several days
The animal resolutely refused to eat it. Ther


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whit* Patbnt Koli.br Flour is the
beet in the marVet.*
Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, best Snow-whit*
PATBNT Uot.i.kr Ft.ona It is the greatest success of the
age.
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-whit* Patbnt
Rou.es Pt-Cio. and yonr bread wll he a» white a( enow.
was no trace of any poison known to chemists in the
meat.” There isn’t anything very wonderful in
this. Dog doesn’t eat dog, nor does cat eat cat.
* * *
The public hospitals are intended for the
benefit of the poor; the rich can pay doctors
privately. But when a man in good circumstances
is treated by a doctor the nature of his malady is
not proclaimed from the housetops and published
in the newspapers, for it is a large and honorably-
ob.served part of the etiquette of the medical
profession that patients are not to be talked
about. What earthly warrant then can there
be for the publication in a daily newspaper o:'
a half-column list detailing the casual tie
treated at the hospital a list setting forth
that So-and-so, of such and such an address
has been treated for “ palpitation of the heaVt;
that John Brown’s “poisoned hand” has been
duly inspected ; that Jones has had a “ whitlow ;
that somebody else has had “an abscess on the
neckand so on, through a more or less un
savoury catalogue, including, perhaps, 70 or 80
cases. This sort of thing is not on'y positively
offensive to everyone who is not an absolut
savage, but it is calculated in cases to inflict grea
harm on individuals. Perhaps the hospital board
will take steps to see that when a man is treatec
in the casualty ward his name and malady shal
nob be trumpeted forth to the world unle-s there
are very special and sufficient reasons for it. Is i;
a crime to be poor and have your hand dressed a
the infirmary ?
• * •
The Portuguese authorities at Quilimane
(South Africa) report that they have seized two
cases of leg-irons, handcuffs, steel-collars, and the
like, which were passing through that port cm
signed to two mis nonaries in the interior. Thu
the gospel is spread from Greenland’s icy
mountains to India’s gory strand, and the obdu
rate nigger is tied up by many an ancient river in
order to teach him the beauty of humping muc
and bricks for the messenger of good tidings. The
tree of life has been planted in the desert plains o '
Africa, and any dashed African who declines to
bring water to keep it growing shall be kickec
even unto seventy times seven; also, the eye
which looks with scorn upon the toiler in the
vineyard shall be extinguished and placed under a
bushel.
* • •
According to the dictum of a distinguished
Melbourne clergyman life is composed of “ kicks
and cuddles.” True —the parsons get the cuddles
and the husbands get the kicks.
* * *
That not inconsiderable section of the
Sydney public which is pleased to regard Govern-
ment House as a place merely designed to serve
as a free restaurant and casino for its convenience
has begun to make nasty remarks about the
paucity of the vice regal entertainments, and to
institute odious comparisons between the courts of:
Carington and Loch. But then the Melbourne
people say nasty things about Loch, so what are
you to believe ?
# » *
The servant-girl question would soon be
one of the past if girls were engaged for, say,
nine hours a day and allowed to do as they chose
with the rest of their time.
Rev. Mr. Ewing wrote to the Argils the
other day asking its readers to provide the funds
necessary to send an invalid young man to his
friends in England. £93 was subscribed in three
days, and the only difficulty felt was to stop the
contributions coming in after the required amount
had been obtained. The poor have still some
friends.
* * «
A most unseemly continuous wrangle was
witnessed in the Sydney Banco Court on Friday
last, between Judge Windeyer and Mr. Salo-
man, Q.C., during the hearing of an application
for injunction in the Dean “blasting” case.
These two gentlemen evidently don’t like one
another much.
« • •
A prominent publican in a large Western
town was recently picked out of the gutter—
drunk —by one of the faithful guardians of the
night and locked up for safety. On undergoing
the usual search it was discovered that he had no
less a sum upon him than £BOO in notes. On
being subjected, next morning, to the usual 55., or
the alternative, the P.M. gently insinuated that
he should make the constable, who took care of
him, a suitable present. The penitent publican
acceded to the wishes of the Bench and generously
presented the “bobby” with —half-a-crown. Fact!
* * .
In reply to our correspondent, “Trotter
Bethune,” who expostulates with U 3 for having
printed in a recent issue certain “doggerel,”
alleged to be insulting and in execrable taste,
about the lately-deceased Emperor Frederick,
we beg respectfully to point out that it is all
bosh to say that any man is an “ irreparable
loss to the whole civilised world.” As ame narch
Frederick was never tried, and his recutation
rested chiefly on newspaper-paragraphs. Nineteen
monarchs out of twenty come to the throne with
the same reputation for universal philanthropy
and ability. Tewftk of Egypt made as good a
start, so did Nero, Yakoob Khan, and the
ferocious and miserly Abdurrahman; Napoleon
I. and Julius Caesar both commenced as repre-
sen tatives_ of the people ; Pius IX. was liberal and
generous in the earl} years of his government;
Abdul-Hamid 11. came to the Turkish throne as
the man who was to make the Ottoman empire a
civilised European power; Milan of Servia was
crowned as a coming hero, and turned into a
battered liar and a coward; John of Abyssinia
was elevated as an apostle, and now he cuts off the
hands and feet of women, and is the most bar-
barous fiend in all Africa ; and even that dirty
monster Nasser-ed-din of Persia was paragraphed
once just as was Kaiser Fritz _ They all lived to
be found out, and had Frederick lived he might
have been found out, too. Let no one slobber on
credit over anybody “dressed in a little brief
authority.” Why, even the average bush publican
when made into a J.P. becomes an insufferable
Tyrant with a big T.
• •
The divorce suit instituted some months
ago against Dr. Rose, M.P., of Melbourne, by his
wife, has been settled out of court. Quite a num-
ber of people who have had rows in public have of
late “made it up ” and gone to live in happiness
ever afterwards. This is indeed a blessed state of
flings ; we wonder how it feels ? Nicer perhaps,
than paying costs as between attorney and client
after you have 'squared up between party and
party.
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 4, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
Lady r Carington was “At Home ” on the 28th ult
and all Sydney attended. Her ladyship, who was i
excellent spirits, wore an uncommon costume of green
ish brown (the red drawing-room, where she received, bein
too gloomy to allow of the colour being very distinguish
able) edged on the draperies with a narrow band
mastic, and draped over a jupe of velvet. Parisian boi
net of mastic, with a bow on the left side of peacock
blue ribbon and peacock-blue strings, with veil. Subd
gloves and a peacock-blue satin parasol, completed th
most “ involved ” gosvn I have ever seen “Her Exce
lency ” assume. The guests were by' no means so we
dressed as on last occasion ; it is a fault with the Sydne
upper ten that their bodices don't always fit them. O
Thursday a number of society girls were regularly wrink
ling all round the waist! Men-folk were scarce, too, o
Thursday, owing, I suppose, to its being “first day” a
Canterbury races, and I am afraid the Peris of Pott
Point suffered from a surfeit of their own society (th
alliteration is wholly accidental) for the heartless “aides
played tennis to the strains of a band, and left the Baro
and his little brother Rupert to entertain the fair. Thei
entertainment usually took the form of a short stroll
the garden, and if y'ou watch the average girl promenad
y'ou will allow that though she may be a swan, standing
she is a duck when she walks —turning up her tees as sh
locomotes.
Sydney is to have another theatre in place of the Royal
and your Sappho is sorry and weeps. I love the Theatr
Royal. It is full of old, pleasing reminiscences, anc
what have we left ? The new theatre is to be erectec
under the supervision of an English architect and I d
hope he will make the stage deep enough ! In som
London theatres the stage is as large as the auditoiium
and just see what scope for “ effects ” is there, my
countrymen !
Seven weary bachelors from the Union Club gave
dance on the 27th ult. at Needs’ rooms to the flower o
Sydney society and the very creamiest cream. The mos
prominent guests, of course, were Lord and Lady Caring
ton. Her ladyship, who looked very sweet and charming
were an innocent, sort of dress of white tulle skirt loopec
and held by clusters of white heath, striped silk bodice
and diamond tiara and necklet. Mostly all the gown
were in good taste, and seemed to belong to the women
that wore them ; Miss Nellie Cox, in white tulle
looked extremely pretty. As the poor bachelors ( one o
whom Dame Rumour hath it, won't be so for long !) had
provided bevies of dancing-men—as the floor was properl;
waxed and the refreshments dainty'—it would have re
quired nothing short of an earthquake to make this ball
failure.
A Northern correspondent tells me that Mrs. Sandy
Maoblank, of Jimaker, gave a ball at the head station on
21st June (choosing the longest night, which was em
blematic of her ever-profuse hospitality). All the world
and his wife were there and stayed till next evening
filling up the time with lawn-tennis. The grooms anc
servants of the hundred assembled guests were enter-
tained in the men's quarters, on the regulation mutton
and brownie, with whips of tea in buckets ; and in order
that the highways and byways should furnish their quota,
the poor swagmen were not neglected, each weary
traveller receiving on the blessed occasion a pound of
flour and permission to camp in the brickyard. Jimaker
is a magnificent property: one of six or eight princi-
palities in Riverina. A few years ago it was called
Jamaica by the swells (they were not very heavy swells
then) to show that they had learned geography. It is
now called Jimaker only by the proletariat.
The marriage of Mies Ada Joseph, Maharatta Station,
Monaro, to Mr. “Jack” Nathan, of Nathan and Co., will
eventuate on the 18th July, at Sydney Synagogue. The
wedding-ceremony will be followed by a reception at
Need’s rooms by Mrs. Joseph.
I hear that a certain impecunious peer, now' in our
midst, has received, by a recent mail, a considerable
augmentation to his income. “ And still he is not happy.”
No, indeed 1 The sum is not enough to remove the trace
of care from his lordship’s pensive brow.
I hear that an ex-M.P. for a Northern river—an M.P. of
whom it was once currently reported that he never opened
his mouth except to put something in it, and who is con-
siderably over seven, has taken unto himself a young wife
whose age is under that of her hubby’s youngest daughter.
The Sydney Driving Park Club held a trotting meeting
on the 27th, which was numerously attended by the
sterner sex, though but few of the gentler showed up
Apropos, the S.D.P. Club doesn’t seem to want us over
there, as they make no arrangements for our comfort.
The old grand stand is a veritable barn and (I blush to
record it) the floor on Wednesday was disfigured in so many
places with the results of smoking that I often had to
raise my skirt. Then the lawn is filled with bookmakers
and betting men in crowds, so that promenading is im-
possible. Under these circumstances we must, regret-
fully, stay away. I say regretfully, because I enjoyed the
trotting.
Mrs. Fairfax ard pretty, blonde Miss Dundas—whose
portrait Signor Nerli has commenced to paint—have
joined Admiral Fairfax at Brisbane.
Three dances will occur shortly. The East Sydney
Rowing Club’s grand social comes off on the 26th inst.
The Masonic Lodge (Sydney Tarbolton) give their fifth
annual ball at the Town Hall on the ISth inst., and the
Masonic Lodge Manoah hold their third annual ball at
West’s rooms on the 25th.
I learned, the other day, that if a Sydney shop-girl be-
comes so exhausted that she must go home and rest for
half a day her employer will stop from her that miserable
half-day’s wage ! Now', ought not those of us who con-
tinue the callous and cruel practice of late shopping, re-
member that when we force these white-faced women
to work over-hours in serving us, we are really
robbing them of their wages and are forcing them, from
time to time, to take the rest they must have, even if
they pay for it ?
Alas ! for all earthly greatness ! A London paper re-
cently spoke of the “ greatest living journalist,” Sala, as
having “a very red face and very white trousers.”
The Walgett Pastoral and Agricultural Show' Ball, a
correspondent informs me, came off in the local hall on
the 20th ult., and was, if anything, too well attended. A
programme of 24 dances and several extras was concluded
at daybreak, and the gowns of the ladie3 were very pretty
indeed.
Sydney Liedertaefel Smoke Concert lights upon the4th
of July, and I really must say 7 that I think smoke concerts
abominable institutions ! Not that I object to smoking,
but I ihink the Liedertaefols ought not to so ungallantly
exclude us from one of their delightful concerts. Good
music is as scarce as an absconder making for Honolulu,
and 1 want to throw stones at my grandmother when I
rc fleet that I have to forego a regular treat because I’m
not a man and don’t smoke !
Speaking of smoking reminds me that many Sydney
society girls indulge in the habit to a huge extent. Many
a Sydney tea-gown have I seen with its cigarette-pocket
under a frill of Mechlin—many and many a time has your
owm Sappho refused a scented packet proffered by Miss
• and Miss 1 Now, I’m not going to moralise, but
I want to offer a practical remark on this subject, which
is a very local one, believe me. A woman who smokes
becomes, in a brief while, as yellow as Parkes’s Pup, or
Lo Pak.
Second day at Canterbury Park Race Club Meeting,
which came off on the 30th instant, was a huge success—
if a crow d means success, and if the constant and (to me)
not unpleasant roar of dozens of brass-throated metalli-
cians offering such tempting odds on the field goes for
nothing! The day was pleasant, and green and brown
were the colours chiefly worn. There was a moss-green
plush and satin, with a moss-green bonnet and shrimp-
pink plumes. A dark-green corded silk, with skirt, panel
and vest of gold embroidery, dark-green bonnet with gold
aigrette (a very, very make-mouth-w'atery sort of a get-
up). Two sisters in moonshine green, with matching hafs
of velvet trimmed with quills. Dark-green with jupe of
gold and green tartan velvet, hat of green and gold.
Dark-brow n silk-velvet with skirt, panel and full front of
primrose satin, brown hat trimmed with brown ribbon
and primrose silk. Leaf-brown silk, ornate gold and
brown checked velvet, brown gloves, straw hat ornate on
suite. Golden brown cashmere, relieved by skirt, panel
and vest of boldly-embosted velvet, large dark-brown
flowers on a golden ground. A handsome gown of black
satin, with overdress of black headed lace. One red dress
was worn —by a woman who, I am sure, owns a carriage,
she was so fat! The lawn was in excellent order for strol-
ling, and if only the Petersham brass band, which dis-
pensed tweet music during the day, would remember
that there is a s ; gn in music that stands for “pianissimo,”
they would confer a signal favour on society 7.
Have you ever noticed how marvellously the “ autumn
leaves” now worn in hats suit the faded women?
Sydney Bathing Co. open their “natatorium” in Pitt
street on the sth inst. with an exhibition of fancy swim
ming by the Gavill family, one and all. The next, day the
baths (of tepid sea-w 7 ater) will be available to all who wan
to plunge in the laid-on briny.
A good old superstition received a hard blow the other
day. A gentleman residing at Brisbane hung a horse-shoe
over his door for luck, and just as he was looking up at i
and admiring his ow 7 n sagacity it fell and knocked his eye
out.
The American actress, Miss Dora Wiley, who came in
the Alameda, went over to the city 7 of the big Exhibition
per express last week.
The second Sydney reunion of the season ’BB came off
on 26th ult., at Needs’ rooms, and on that beautifi
floor could not fail to be a success. The prettiest gown
was of white voile, classically draped, and relieved by
huge bouquets of pansies on the left hip and side of cor
sage. The ugliest was “ coffee ” lace draped over crimson
The Phoenix Assembly 7 dance at Needs’ rooms the other
night was a very enjoyable affair.
Pitt-street Congregational Chapel was crowded on the
24th ult. (the occasion of the Emperor’s memorial service)
by what has been described as a “ cosmopolitan crowd,'
and if that is a sample of a cosmopolitan crowd I do not
wish to mingle in another. Though it was clearly printer
on the admission-cards that dark colours should be worn,
many unfeeling and vulgar women turned out in glac
colours —red and even yellow being adopted ! Then, as
one chant rose on the breeze, a very fat lady said, aloud
and indignantly, “Why, it is our 1 God Save the Queen
they’re a-singing that muck to !” What if it were
Surely the text of England’s national anthem cou’d be
easily improved upon !
I really must protest against the somewhat coarse prac-
tice of naming racehorses after ladies. In a recent issue
of a Sydney Sunday newspaper I read—“ A very beautiful
animal indeed is Lady .” This referred, of
course, to Mr. W. J. Noud’s bay three-year-old, but
nobody could read such a sentence without at least
vaguely involving a channing woman. There are so
many situations in which racehorses figure where to call
them by a lady’s name is impossible that the practice had
better be abandoned altogether.
A London paper, in referring to the by no means meri-
torious career of Mr. B. Standish Siever (or, as we know
him, Bookmaker Sutton) marvels greatly that a man with
such a reputation should dare to be presented to the
Prince of Wales ! For my part I don’t see that reputa-
tion has much to do with the presentation, anyhow!
for if it had we should certainly have Englishmen ob-
jecting to be presented to “ Tummy.”
If any kind person can recommend something that will
remove black paint from a white gown, he can win the
everlasting gratitude of a sweet girl in Hobart, who is in
great distress. She went for a stroll with her sweetheart
one evening, instead of attending choir-practice. Happen-
ing to pass a cemetery surrounded by immense trees, they
entered, seated themselves on a nice flat stone, and
found it a most enchantingly retired spot to dis-
cuss the Chinese question, extension of railways,
and other interesting subjects. Next morning the lady
found across the back of her dress, in black paint—ro
yromf.m ni. The “nice flat stone ” was part of a vault,
which had been freshly painted by the relatives of the
deceased occupant, and now that girl is worrying herself
into brain fever trying to invent a likely account of how
those letters came on her dress without betraying her
evening’s amusement to her mother.
A certain legal dignitary 7 up North had, previous to
his elevation to the bench, a mo3t unenviable reputation
as a wife-beater —his better-half having frequently had
to seek refuge from his violence at a neighbour’s house.
A man was charged with cruelty to a horse,
and his lawyer, in conducting the prosecution,
subjected the defendant to a perfectly bewildering
cross-examination until the latter, goaded to desperation,
remarked in a clear, decided voice : “ Sir, I love my horse
next best to my wife, and I never beat either.” This un-
expected reference to his weakness upset the learned gen
tleman’s equanimity and his client lost his case.
A Hobart newspaper announces that a painting on
ivory, copied from a portrait by a local photographer, has
been accepted by the “Hanging Committee, London.”
Vague expression—under the circumstances it conjures
up visions of Newgate rather than anything artistic.
Poor old “ Bob” Lowe (Viscount Sherbrooke) is, I hear,
now looking ill and decrepid, and at the recent Private
View of the New Gallery he “ ambled through the rooms
with the aid of a stick and in charge of my lady,” but
few people recognising him in his “spoon-bait spectacles.”
At this private view Lady Colin-Campbell wore a blue
and white striped pompadour with flounces on the
white stripes, and Lady Coutts-Lindsay wore a long
cloak of shot-red silk, and a jet bonnet with a
huge green bow ! There is a get-up for you ! What
awful taste such a woman must have ! Why, even here
in Australia the worst we ever do is to trim crimson with
scarlet 1 Speaking of gowns, what do you think of
these? A rich train of white faille silk, with sprays of
white lilac and mauve orchids over a jupe of fine white
crSpe. Another : yellow brccade train in a design of
lilac blossom turned back with revers of white satin, with
sprays of white lilac ; tulle jupe, with panels of white
satin, the front filled in with long branches of white lilac.
Are these not lovely confections—the very poetry of
dress ? And wouldn’t some of them look fetching on
yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fashionable Intelligence Intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bullbtin Office
The celebrated Broken Hill Proprietary
Silver-mining Co. consists of 10,000 shares, of
which 7616 are held in Adelaide. There are a
thousand men out of work at Broken Hill, chiefly
mechanics and labourers.
“If you must get drunk, why don’t you
get so thoroughly drunk that you can’t go about
and annoy people?' 1 was the plaintive observation
of the Rockhampton (Q.) police magistrate, the
other day, to a prisoner. Prisoner said he would
endeavour to get drunker next time.
Austin Gallagher, Esq., C.M.G., of Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), has made his 111th bow to the
local police-court bench —to say nothing of the
bows he has made at other police-courts. The
local paper says he has paid more for the privilege
of being drunk and disorderly than any other man
in Australia. “Are you sober now?” asked the
chairman of the Bench. “Thanks be to God, I
am, your Worship.”
A Bathurst resident, of 20 years’ standing,
writes “In your last issue you state that, not-
withstanding the exertions of the jaynil Dan
O’Connor, 12 inches of freestone still marks the
resting-place of Daniel Henry Deniehy in the
old goat-haunted cemetery at Bathurst. It
would be a great relief to the real friends of
‘ Little Dan ’ if you could prove that his remains
still lie in the grave where a couple of white men
laid them. The old cemetery at Bathurst has
been a goat and pig run for years; Deniehy’s
grave has been turned inside out over and over
again ; cattle and sheep have browsed upon it,
and, if Professor Tyndall’s theory be correct, the
people of Bathurst have indirectly played the part
of cannibals and eaten the remains of the gifted
Dan second-hand. A glance at the records of our
Municipal Council, however, will prove that, as
yet, we haven’t touched his brains.”
Any fool can either write or criticise
poetry. Speaking of a book of verse entitled
“ Whispering Voices ” just published by a Mr.
Edward Candish, the Town and Country
Journal’s smarty says :
“ It does not require that a critic should be a Matthew
Arnold to be able to say that such words as ' grove’ and
‘ rove ’ rhyme with ‘ love ’ only to the eye, not to the ear.”
Evidently the Market-street genius has never
heard of those very useful articles called “allow-
able rhymes.” Pope was certainly a tolerable
master of the rhyming art, and he thought fib to
write:
“ Till the freed Indians in their native groves,
Reap their own fruits, and woo their sable loves."
Shakesbacon was something of a poet, too, and in
his “ Yenus and Adonis ” we read :
“ O, how quick is love !
To tie the rider she begins to prove.”
There now !
Austral ian Federation.
The question of Australian Federation, if it cannot
be called a “burning question, ” is at all events
one of the most prominent topics of the day,
Its importance is on all sides acknowledged,
but_ there are many difficulties in the way of its
achievement which will have to be removed before
it can be brought about In no small degree local
jealousies affect the question, and prevent a calm
dispassionate discussion of it. Then again the
tariffs of the whole of the colonies would have to
be assimilated. The seat < f Government woulc
have to be fixed satisfactorily, and that would 1101
easily be decided upon. That Australia will in
the future be federated there can be no doubt, in
fact it will become a necessity of the development
of the colonies, which is likely as time progresses
to be even more rapid than it has in the pa«t. If
has been estimated that in a century hence there
will be in Australia a population of 50 millions
That there is abundance of room for that number
on this vast island continent none will deny. With
such a population, or, indeed, with a much smaller
number, it is scarcely likely tha the colonies will
remain separate and distinct as at present, or
indeed that the connection with Great Britain,
which is at present so advantageous, will be main-
tained. It is rather surprising when the enterpris
ing nature of the Australian people is remembered
that so little has been done in the direction of
exploration of Central Australia. It is, and,
indeed, is for some time likely to be, a veritable
terra incognito. Certainly a survey of a railway
line has been made right through from the north
to the south of South Australia, but, beyond that,
no exploration of Central Australia has been made
with a view to ascertaining the character of the
country. Of course that would speedily follow
the construction of the line, the completion of
which will be the beginning of a new era in
Australian history. With increase of population
and growing importance it will be an absolpte
necessity for the colonies to federate. At present
it is mainly spoken of as being desirable for many
reasons. The matter from different standpoints
is variously viewed. Such, however, is not the
case with Warner’s Safe Cure, regarding the
efficacy of which there is no difference of opinion
amongst the thousands of colonists who, through
its agency, have obtained relief from suffering and
restoration to health. From every quarter, and
by people in all classes of society, cheerful evidence
has been piven as to the marvellous effects it has
in federating disorganized constitutions.


Something New In Sewing Machines.
BEALE PATENT MACHINE,
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT?
THE restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of
immense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our calling
s to relieve the home-mother of all that may weary
her in sewing, and to make the same throughout, a
pleasure. That we have during the last seven
years succeeded in so doing, scores of thousands
will testify. And to-day we are supplying a
machine whose range of work is absolutely com-
plete, transcending the hopes and dreams of years.
The construction and form are such as to place it
altogether above and beyond competition, for the
truth of which assertions, as of the following, we
humbly request that your own eyes may be the
judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The ‘Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra ,
tc the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for
blankets, woollens, or other materials; you may
do over-casting or top-sewing—never before pos-
sible with Sewing Machines—as fast as you can
feed the work. And, above all, you can make
single barred or double barred button holes and
eyelet holes with the most marvellous precision
and perfection. Herein, the fingers of the
practised seamstress cannot with the greatest ex-
penditure of time and labour, produce work of
similar quality. And remember, the Machine-
made button hole, in addition to its beauty,
is inherently far superior, for each stitch
is Looked. Button holes which ought to
embellish a garment, are often only a disfigure-
ment. Look at our samples and judge the effect
of fine work for yourself. By all means have
good work instead of bad, especially when you
can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been the raising of
the arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods
to be sewn freely to pass underneath. This had
to be accomplished without increasing the weight
of the machine. In fact, the Beale runs with
wonderful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent,
all clicking sounds having been obviated. As is
well known, a good test of the finish of any
mechanism is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
jprovided than with any other machine. Samples
'°f V Ol performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
-explain their uses and their applicability to every
(requirement.
NICKEL PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
meed to be protected from rust. We have, at
-considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
ibar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
'these improvements also tend largely to preserve
’the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
»6he place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
-of former years. When closed it securely fastens
•the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
•of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
troom of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
'high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
-and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
•climates. 6
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
"Steel, saving the trouble _c>f threading by the end
of the cotton. 'lt ' has an excellent tension, is
and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of In-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Catalogues and Samples Free by Post.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we wiU
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
apon EASY TIME PAYMENT&
A RADICAL reform.
oH>in,L!f0 H >in,L!fk 80 Mondayish!” exclaims th
ousemother at her breakfast-table on th
Although the above absurc
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary ve
Sf W 0« well knows its meaning when
tn?W f Ward the teemi ng, steaming, boiling
hnuse B /« t f? iper ' trying ’r hateful washing day. The
/ thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
: aside > the childr en kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
timTand C tn tlon i for a , n y° ne who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong ttie agony.
dav”^a y ’ “ deed > - the home where “washing
day is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
knoWS the wretchedness and
th i 6 ?5 ese ? t washing-day brings down
pon the household. In the early morning all is
f °- r t i le all -iniportant washerwoman,
ri t ?v amve an earl y breakfast, and then to
wee k s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
lmen The good-natured husband readily excuses
!, a ? * y _ l?' e P ared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife
anxious to get everything finished in good time!
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
MM
wmf
Si
ill
I
m
;--V
sflsti
te .!
W
"hiT'v-X: :
n
i
-s.
Hi
Mil
•E 5
m\
482, 484, 486 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
nr.a B tBRn E & C ?' } l av c< e T ected New Show Rooms, Offices and Warehouses, at Nos. AB2, ABA
and 4<S6 George-street, Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to the Royal Arcade
These are the loftiest commercial buildings in the city, andean be seen from all parts of the
city and adjacent suburbs. The Show Rooms will be the largest and finest in the Southern
Patent SewinJMachined ° f '*** fplendid Ha Pianos, Haydn Organs and Beale
All OOODS may lie liiul upon EASY TIME PAYMENT
THREE SHILLINGS IN THE 1*0(Ml.
PHOTOGRAPHS, PRICE LISTS and SAMPLES
or FOR FASn loss
FREE BY POST.
No matter where you live, we will supply you with a Piano, Organ or Sewing Machine upon
Easy Time Payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“boiling” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “rocking machines” are tedious to fill. The
clothes _ have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
years* asller can by a or lad of 15
« J he , tw o above-described “ Steaming ” and
nubHe k i l n?> l ; Wa ? herB those mo s«y before the
public m this colony at the present time.
H „iw ßea i e n Patent j Vasher may be simply de
fn fWit S f , oll ?. ws > ami we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care
on/v thp de ’ lth fluted sides. _lt is stationary,
y the water and clothes being agitated by an
wWi atel r?u Sha i doll y> which is worked by a fly
heel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
ln the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
i^i )ein F merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
rips tears, and iLJsrtie
i , * , lus > the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
bv r t C L r b bb !T g th w-! e V Upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
bp/ling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
. Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 486 George Street,
SYDNEY
Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of a
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps i
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement,
ihe parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear, full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, the
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. Theseframesare square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
8 '! usta ' n t^le whole with absolute rigidity,
that these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
a v , tu m is only re quired at long intervals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
burg Wlth nearly every piano exce Pting the Haps-
-Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
L late as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-Range
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
. I l *- The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
. t".. . CHARLES S. PACKER
ft brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg.
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
Hj.® ? ro T , of T t h ° rl l B -” ai ! d many other noble composi-
toons, handed us the following’:— F
„ T v, . . , „ “ Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, m all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
Pw er °fA he J ns . tru ments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant sounds les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagme aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES
cdare avolr aussi c.harmbe que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER,Zfe a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES, Je les
toutesincbritA ALICE CHARBONNET-
Juin 1883’’ dU Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney, 20
CERTIFICATE.
‘‘ ected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
j sev erest tests, and am greatly surprised
P??wTO ht i ed a V t n 6ir MARVELL OUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Sia-nedl AITPP'
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN , of the CoSitoire of
Pans. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs,
HAPq I RiVn°PiA^ I nS IUSIC i an ’ exai P ined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
" Th , e Y sed , for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful and its qualities under the thrilling touch
Of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
" The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments."
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
“ Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
“Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been-sold. The best only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 Gkorge-strbbt, Sydnbt.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
upon EASY TIME-PAYMENTS.


Amusements,
JJOYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
PAUL MERRIT’S MELODRAMA
RUN \ f EARTH
RUN / \EARTH.
Popular Prices, 35., 25., and Is.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
£JRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Air. BOUCICAULT.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT’S
very popular and powerful
COMEDY COMPANY
at the above
ELEGANT and FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING
Mark Melford's Irresistable Comedy
TURNED UP.
ADMISSION— 55., 3s , 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
LHAM B R A MUSIC HALL,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
Unprecedented Success of this Great Company.
THE MOORE AND BURGESS
SHOW of AUSTRALIA,
now in its
4th YEAR.
EVERY EVENING
FIELD and HANSON, the GREAT MUSICAL KINGS.
SYLVO, THE INNOVATOR.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
Sydney
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
Miss MABEL SYLVESTER,
the Champion Lady Skater of the World, has just
arrived by the RMS. Alameda, from U. S. A.,
and will give her Third Exhibition in Australia of
TRICK and FANCY SKATING at this Rink,
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, July 5, at 9
o’clock, and
Every Evening during the remainder of the
WEEK.
’Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
M
ADMISSION, Is.
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, WEDNESDAY, JULY 11.
Tickets obtainable from Members of the Com-
mittee ONLY.
Double, 30s. ; Gentlemen, 215.; Ladieß, 12s. 6d.
W. J. MERRIMAN, Hon. Tres.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
Box 1023, G.P.O.
pOTANY ! BOTANY! BOTANY!
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1 —
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
c
OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director —Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopford, Sub Manager.
pROTESTANT HALL.
PROFESSOR and MADAME KENNETH,
World-Renowned MESMERISTS,
(Lately Arrived From Paris and U.S. America.)
Commencing TUESDAY, July 4, and succes-
sive nights. Box Plan at Nicholson and Co.
Doors open 7. 30 pm. Commence at 8 p.m.
Carriages 10 p.m. Popular Prices, 35., 25., Is.
Manager, DOUGLAS HAMILTON.
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.:—
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
bAVATOBY AND DBEQSING-RoGU PROVIDED.
Amusements.
H E § ,t- MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Peioes, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, July 5,
at quarter to 8 o'clock sharp,
NEW BABYLON
NEW BABYLON.
Prloes as usual. Tlokets for all parts at Eastway’s.
~\T E W OPERA HOUSE.
-L j, Acting Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
Stage Manager, Mr. Arthur R. Lawrence.
SATURDAY, JULY 7,
will b 8 presented Wilkie Collins’s great emotional
drama,
THE NEW MAGDALEN,
with a completeness and attention to detail never
before attempted in former productions in
this city.
ADMISSION—4s. 35., 25., Is.
Asheield recreation grounds
AND GARDEN PALACE
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events :
July 7. —Grand Bicycle Match, Clarke v. Lebeau
for £5O a side.
August 4.—The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
a
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
THE MOST KAHSIONABLE RINK IN SYDNEY.
Still Another Grand Success.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated bv
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE:
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
, » » Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE.—The Management reserve the righi
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
B
ON D I
AQUARI UM-
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
Y.
M. C. A.
H
L L.
TUESDAY and FRIDAY, July 10, and 13.
MA JOR DANE, declared by Press and People
the greatest Orator ever heard in Australia, will give
two of bis famous lectures en route to Queensland.
Tuesday, July 10—“Jas. A. Garfield, Second
Martyred President.” Friday, July 13—“ New
Zealand, the Wonderland of Oceana.”
W. HERBERT JONES, Manager.
J3UZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the Sleepy Nigger,
Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address: NORTON WADE, care of MR, A.
LUSBY, G.P.0., Sydney.
WANTED, MILLIONS ON MILLIONS
Second-hand Chaff, Corn, Flour, Potato,
Coke, Bark, and Copra Bags.—P. B. IVEY &
Co., 141 Sussex-street.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply.
Rtttxbtiw Office
"VTEIL MACKAY is NOT authorisedto
X™ Canvasßfor Thk Bttlt.kttn.
IF MADAME FRANZINI will communicate
with the Manager, Broken Hill Skating
Company, she will hear of something to her
advantage.
KATOOMBA.— North’s “Lake ” Sub-division
of Katoomba Township will in future be
known as “CARRINGTON PARK." J. B.
NORTH, Owner.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THH BRIGHTON OB’
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eto., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rccherchi
dinner, you can eijoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstek to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
ISrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS, ~
Sorrento and Echuca,
"Victoria,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort In the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladles' Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Roomß. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Aooommodation for 200
Quests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Qai. B. Sprit; & Co.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN N.S.W.
Thk PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, la
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Rlverlna District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con
sideratlon all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Aloock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. i. L Spearing,
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements.
t lltM
■vv.iv'^v- > . r ?^--;.v
•• v'^-r^A■ W'>
'- £J ~ ''•'.•K;
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and is the best of
all Fruit Salines.
HEAITH-GITO, TOEING, INVIB3RATIK&.
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get It only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England,
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
TayloHßra 3
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY S£ OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE SOLONY,
s. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mo's Baking Powders, Orient Square Blue,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, PERSIAN SHERBET,
&c., &c.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
Hotels,
GRAND HOTEL,
CORNER of MARY and MARKET-STREET,
BRISBANE.
(Opposite A.U.S.N. Wharf.)
D. COSGROVE, Proprietress.
(Late of Lennon’s Hotel.)
THIS Hotel having passed under a new manage-
ment, great improvements have been made,
making this one of the Finest Hotels in the
Colonies. Private Suites for Families.
Ladies’ Drawing-rooms, Gentlemen’s Reading
and Smoking-rooms, Billiards, Night Porter.
Hotel Porter waits for all boats.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
supervision of a Continental Chef.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
I lrat- class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City,
DAVID LYONS „ Froprietob,


N
E W T O N AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS]
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
'A
'l'his chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLESinallWoods. Immense
variety of des’gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
oils sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing (he space when T equired. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
Or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of profe-sional and business men.
Drawing room cabi-
nets.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
'£
M
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Veby Completj
Assortment,
Many quite new designs
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a specially. Newton & Lamb.
s
R
T>EDSTKADS, all sizes.
Nickel- plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 11s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 40 ; W ardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
*WT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
warehousemen,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRTNO * O’CONNELL STREETS.
French as she is spoke : Customer (to
waiter): “Have you got any Brie cheese?”
Scotch Waiter (astonished) : “Only the pair I’ve
got on,- sir.”
The Australian Brewers’ Journal is to
hand. It is the neatest and best and most in-
teresting trade-journal of any sort published South
of the line.
In 1886, in Sydney, the hospitals treated
809 cases of typhoid with 124 deaths; in 1887
there were 598 cases with 84 deaths. According
to these figures Sydney typhoid is much less than
half as fatal as the Melbourne brand.
The split in the of the Australian
Secular Association still continues. A recent
Melbourne Herald contains advertisements from
the rival secretaries, in which each claims to be
the real Simon Pure and denounces the other as a
blatant impostor. See how these atheists love one
another !
Mr. Phil. May writes from Melbourne say-
ing that he doesn’t so much mind certain outside
people tracing off or otherwise making use of por-
tions of his caricatures of various of the most pro-
minent celebrities of the land. But when they
pursue the game so far as to mutilate, in their
endeavors to reproduce, his sketches of a certain
charming lady who has from time to time sat as
model for him and in whom he reckons he has
an absolute copyright, he thinks it about time
to enquire as to the stage at which these gentle-
men propose to stop.
A CROSS BABY.
Nothing is so conducive to a man’s remaining a bachelor
as stopping for one night at the house of a married friend,
and being kept awake for five or six hours by the crying
of a cross baby. All cross and crying babies need only
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters to make them well and
smiling. Young man, remember this.—“ Traveller.”
pay large sums to canvassers but send
BvIA -L direct any old or new Photo, which will be
made into a 15 x 18 permanent enlargement beautifully
finished in black or white or colours and forwarded
carriage paid to any address for £l. Other sizes in pro-
portion. The Manager Berlin Enlarging Studios, Wagga,
N.S.W.*
The great value of Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver
Oil with Hypopiiospiiites in Wasting Diseases is shown
by the accompanying statement from D. C. Freeman,
Sydney, Australia: — “ Having been a great sufferer from
pulmonary attacks, and gradually wasting away forthe past
two years, it affords me great pleasure to testify that the
above medicine has given me great relief, and cheerfully
recommend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself.
In addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take.”
Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion. —This is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ - Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
g>
S
o
G=
S»
<<
-
V
-
A
o
V
<2
V
o
£
o
r\
v
o
£
&
vi
&
■%>
>c
<y
■<
0
S'
v
o
4>A
v
<<>;
s>
,x
O
390 a GEORGE S T
BYDETBY,
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
London Standard says that the resolute
way in which the Australians have attacked the
Chinese Question has shown them to be practical
men liberated from the thraldom of bookish
generalisations.
After remarking that the nearest fixed
star is 20 millions of millions of miles from the
earth, and that if the most powerful of the tele-
scopes made by man could be used in surveying
every portion of the heavens, the total number of
stars which would be brought into view would far
exceed one thousand millions, Richard Anthony
Proctor says : —“ If we could double the space-
penetrating power of our telescopes, we should
probably much more than double, we should in-
crease manifold, the number of stars —that is of
suns—which would be brought within our ken.
Not thousands of millions, but probably millions
of millions of suns exist within the limits of the
sidereal system. Rather, I ought to say, they
exist within the limits of our sidereal system ; for
doubtless this system is no more to be regarded as
single within the universe than our solar system
is unique within the star depths. Every star tells
us of a sun, and probably of a solar system, in
such sort that we must recognise thousands of
millions of solar systems in the galaxy May we
not fairly assume, then, that in like manner our
sidereal system is repeated millions of millions of
times within some system of a higher order ? That
system may be in turn repeated many millions of
times within a system of still higher order. And
so on to higher and higher orders, absolutely with-
out end.”
Fever in New South Wales is far less frequent among
the Colonists and Chinese than formerly. This is owing
to the discovery by them of the curative properties of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne. This valuable medicine
checks the progress and rapidly cures all forms of Fevers
and Ague, so prevalent at certain seasons of the year in
many parts of New South Wales. By the older Colonists it
is regarded as a household remedy, and employers of
large bodies of workmen always keep a good stock of
Freeman’s Chlorodyne on their estates.—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 Qeorge-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all lnseots.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
FEES OF DOCTORS.
The fee of doctors is an item that very many persons
are interested in just at present. We believe the schedule
for visits is $3.00, which would tax a man confined to his
bed for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over $l,OOO a
year for medical attendance alone ! And one single bottle
of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters taken in time would
save the $l,OOO and all the year’s sickness.— '* Post.”
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vie.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per cent. I For 1 year .. 6 per cent.
For 6 months i per cent. | For 3 months.. 3 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Offices— lo, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
lEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
HO. 79 GLAREHCE STREET, SYDNEY.
e a
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best manufacturing machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lor the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Including Maohlnery, Imported
Leathers, So.! and ol the following Special Lines t—-PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH. »I'KI 4 0 black-
ritfC ? T«inon' Tnnlo anrt Indent* executed on Favourable Terms.
Business Announcements.
ROW'S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twe
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886,
Gentlemen,-1 have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
DOWS
EMBROCATION
/6
3
*tv
p \SOLD
I EVERYWHERE
m
V
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
1 when one application will relieve you 1
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Ointo
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANF
BITTERS, prepared solely by
KDW. ROW AVP COMPANY


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construe-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
eopffion in cheap English or French pianos.
2iid. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts ars Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
r-
m sat
\ v;
r.
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Ldose wheel; self loosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
Of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
ho tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
arid adjustable cones
to those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
-ribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
th e illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
illv made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
tie water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
ately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel
'he clothes are simply dropped m, no arrangement
r packing being wanted The special reversing
ear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
rards, and a very small expenditure of strength
uffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
nds In the process the clothes are floated to and
, 0 up and down; currents and cross-currents of
rater are formed which meet and are forced through
nd through the fabric, carrying away every particle
f dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
ENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
fS hand-washing. Neither has anything to
übmit to the hand-wringing process which m-
pmsiblv rips, tears and wears the clothes. i.hus,
he most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
vstem of washing. Everyone has noticed that
heir clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
s bv use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
hev get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
Vith the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
riction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
dll last far longer than by hand-washing, however
areful When the washing is done, the tub should
le wined out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
Nereis no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
•* e 6SS^2SSw = n*i Free b, Port.
BEALE nnvT»»w
452 484, and 480, George Street, Sidnei.
I It is said that the Sydney detectives lately
inearthed and frustrated a plot to seize a craft in
Sydney harbour and run away with it —after the
ashion adopted in the celebrated “Ferret” buc-
janeering expedition.
The foundation-stone of the new N.S.W.
Houses of Parliament; which was laid aitiid so
nuch pomp and splendour at Centennial time, was
afterwards enclosed with a railing of the sort they
place rotind tombs. On top of the stone; which
is only partially covered over, there have been
thrown, by the irreverent and fleshly, stones, jam
tins, ginger-beer bottles, and orange peel; some
ghastly sort of weed is now growing in great pro-
fusion in the little enclosure, and the whole turn
out looks like a drunkard’s grave. We are senti-
mental enough not to like the idea that the future
talking-shop of Macquarie-street is to spring from
such a sepulchre.
In. Melbourne they are pulling down build-
ings of eten four stories, and erecting higher ones
in their place. Some of the new buildings will
run to astonishing heights. Thus the Australian
Property and Investment Company are about to
erect a building of 12 stories at the corner of
Elizabeth-street and Flinders-lane, which will be
173 feet high , from the street pavement to the
roof, or the height of Nelson’s column, Trafalgar-
square, London. This will be higher than any
private building in London, and will only be
equalled by some of the tallest busine s houses
in Chicago or New York. Mr. B. J. Fink is also
erecting a monster building, opposite the Hobson’s
Bay railway station, of nine stories, which will
run to a height of 142 feet. Other large buildings
are those of Mr. Prell, Queen-street, nine stories,
138 feet high; the new Stock Exchange, seven stories,
121) feet; the Permanent Building Society’s offices,
Collins-street (completed), eight stories, 120 feet;
Mr. James’ buildings, Collins-street, seven stories,
105 feet; and many others, which will, when com-
pleted, make Melbourne, in its business centres,
one of the handsomest cities in the world. — Aus-
tralian Brewers’ Journal.
Thousands Hastened to their Heaves.
By replying on testimonials written in vivid
glowing language of Some miraculous cures made
by some largely puffed doctor or patent medicine
has hastened thousands to their graves; the
readers having almost insane faith that the same
miracle will be performed on them, that these
testimonials mention, while the so called medicine
is all the time hastening them to their graves.
Although we have
Thousands upon Thousands ! ! !
of testimonials of the most wonderful cures,
voluntarily sent us, we do not publish them, as
they do not make the cure. It is our medicine,
l)r. Sortie’s American Hop Bitters, that makes
the cures. It has never failed and never can.
We will give reference to any one for any disease
similar to their own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbor, as there is not a neighborhood in the
known world but can show its cures by Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.
A Losing Joke.
“ A prominent physician of Pittsburg said to a
lady patient who was complaining of her continued
ill-health, and of his inability to cure her, jokingly
said : ‘ Try Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters ! ’
The lady took it in earnest and used the bitters,
from which she obtained permanent health. She
now laughed at the doctor for his joke, but he is
not so well pleased with it, as it cost him a good
patient.”
Fees of Doctors.
The fee of doctors at $3.00 a visit would tax a
man for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over
$l,OOO a year for medical attendance alone. And
one single bottle of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters taken in time would save the $l,OOO and
all the year’s sickness.
Given up by the Doctors.
“Is it possible that Mr. Godfrey is up and at
work, and cured by so simple a remedy ? ”
“ I assure you it is true that he is entirely cured,
and with nothing but Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters, and only ten days ago his doctors gave
him up and said he must die, from Kidney and
Liver trouble! ”
t2T None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Bewake of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.
Business Announcements .
GOURVOBSIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be ot
the purest end finest & cO .
W. JAMESON «& CO.’S
11 MARROWBONE LANE" WHISKY,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the post 130 year,. Jn bulkor case.^
CHAMPAGNE.
Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wittes, and commands favour m all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
B R U N T O ITS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Oan be obtained throughout New South Waleß,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Stbbet.
BRISBANE Edwabd Street.
MELBOURNE Spences Stbeet.
T
HO M A
BUOKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, ANt> GENERAL AGtNT.
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and 00., Engineer*, Linooln.
, „ Langland’k Foundry 00., Melbourne, Vlo.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Even b
throughout the Year. For full particulars set
‘‘ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities Id
"Evening News." Address, “Tattersall’s," cart
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tlokets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, onr
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
ALAH B. BRIGHTp
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
JDK. K. «J. BOYD
L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S. find L.M. Edin.,
registered in Great Britain, and New Sonth Waleß,
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princess Lonise and late
Resident Medical Officer to the French Hospital in
London, specialist for the treatment of all Nervous
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter or personally free oi
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8, BHgh-street, of
Hunter-street Sydney.
n R RICHARDS
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
for all Nervous Diseases; prioe, including post
age, 6d. in stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
and the Doctor will tell you at once whether your
case is curable or not. Address—
JDK. RICHARDS,
* HPWTKrn htwwwt Hvnxrwv
iar THE LATEST FASHIONABLE AMUSEMENT
18
»-■ PHOTOG-SAPH? <-«
We recommend those desirous of obtaining lasting records of their Yachting Cruises, Boating Excur-
sions, Cricket, Football and Lawn -Tennis Matches, and other gatherings, to provide themselves
with one of our outfits, which will enable them to surround themselves with views of scenes and
places in which some of the most delightful hours of their lives have been spent.
4* vm
A
'm
h
m
%
: '.'i'Jr
.. ..
M
>T K
LADIES will find that, by learning how to photograph, they have obtained a most interesting and
engrossing amusement for their leisure hours. _
By the DRY PLATE process, stained fingers and other unpleasantness is away with, and a
child can carry the whole apparatus, and it is no longer necessary to take Dark Tents or Chemicals
away from home. Our books of instruction enable even the most inexperienced to produce
creditable pictures. *r FREE LISTS AND PARTICULARS POST FREE.
LICHTOTES dc CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET,, SYDNEY, and ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dl.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 11
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him wifi receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undert kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organio disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spebr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Offioe hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg too notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choioe
Brands of
tMETTES, also FINEST BRANDS of CMS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices !
40- Noth this Pbiob !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand —in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX gIIUUKdS EACH!
4 w By buying from ub you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
ii mmi street, mm
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD. SBD. GBD
XHIB FAMOUB AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain* Iti Preitige and itandi pre-eminent amon
the boiti of other brand* ai
THE BEBT QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
BMOKERB.
Eeware of Spurious Imitations.
The nndenigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
all perioni imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO,,
131 GLARE NOE-STRBEt.
We hare Large Shipments ol this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPEB to hand and Regular Shipments ooming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
MOWSSTS
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2b. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It Is invaluable cure. See testimonials
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
MONTf'w
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole Agents ■
Mathey, Nathan & Co.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
44 Lrnx* Coluns Street East, Melbourne,


CATARRH
is an inflammation ol the mucous
membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless oured will destroy every faculty and funotion
of its viotim. Catarrhbanb is an infallible oure. Sold
* y Washington Soul ana all ohemists. Full particulars
from F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W.
The Referee
Arthur Shrewsbury has txpressed a ver;
poor opinion of the sixth Australian Eleven, bu
the famous Nottinghamshire professional is likely
to moderate his scorn before their tour comes to
close. Shrewsbury holds that Turner and Ferri
are the best bow lers in the world on a stick
wicket, while Briggs and others are more deadly
when the turf is dry. Now, The Bulietin ha
more than once drawn attention to the fact tha
the English professionals can just now get any
Australian team out for less than 400 runs, let th
wicket be what it may, yet it doesn’t follow
that the bowling, pure and simple, brings abou'
this result. It seems rather that the pros, are
extra tiicky as regards placing their field anc
bowling for catches. They also contrive to “run
out,” on an average, the larger proportion of bats
men. But whether we give the credit to the
bowling or to cleverly concerted fielding, one hare
fact remains. Within recent years the “ Gentle
men” have piled up scores against Australian
bowling far exceeding any they have made in
their annual matches with the Players. Hence
Shrewsbury’s theory.
• • «
Apropos of Friar Balsam’s ignominious
show in the Two Thousand Guineas, London
Referee says, “the joint owners of Friar’s
Balsam are by no means of the ordinary racing
cut; one is a peer, the other is a baronet of ancien
family, both are members of the Jockey Club anc
friends of the Prince of Wales, and it is therefore
impossible to imagine them descending to the low
and knavish tricks which have so disgraced anc
degraded the turf in times gone by. ” This may
be intended for satire, or ii may not. What is
made quite clear in another part of the same
article, is, that a certain bookmaker—who always
“ peppers ” the horses of “Tummy’s” particular
friends for races which they don’t win—landec
£150,000 for himself (or somebody else) by
the defeat of Friar’s Balsam. The horse
started at 3 to 1 on for the Two Thousand,
having at the time an abscess in his jaw of such a
size that its presence must have been known to
somebody. Were Lord Arlington and Sir
Frederick Johnstone “mugs,” it would be very
conceivable that tlrny were ignorant of the con-
dition of their hor3e on the eve of a great race for
which that horse was about the hottest favourite
on record. An owner like our old friend Benzon
might not be stoked with information under simi-
lar circumstances. But the noble proprietors of
Friar’s Balsam know (as_ the Ref. puts it)
“most things worth knowing.” Therefore they)
knew that the bookmaker who always lays more
than he is worth against their animals that are
subsequently beaten, was in this instance fielding
against Friar's Balsam to lose an enormous
amount. But these friends of the Prince of
Wales—these wily old birds —never lost confidence,
or found out that their trusted steed had a quart
or two of matter gathered inside its mouth. And,
although a bookmaker appeared to guess as much,
“no one of experience (the Ref. goe3 on) thinks
for a moment that the owners had any arrange-
ment by means of which money was got out of the
favourite —their names stand too high for that.”
Why, certainly!
» • *
Hankr, who, by the way, seems to jog
along whether he wins or loses a race, on paper
and by his previous performance cannot have a
ghost of a show with Kemp in their coming
match. Hanlan has been raking in the dollars for
years past as ex-champion, whilst champion
Beach has been lying fallow at Dapto and
neglecting a golden opportunity. Hanlan always
has an eye to business, and when the Banana-
landers the other day had their £5OO to throw
away on Ned Trickett, it was he who scooped it
in, and not Kemp. It is enough to raise Ren-
forth, Chambers, and Company out of their graves
to have a look at a champion sculler above accept-
ing—and in the case of Kemp it really meant that
—a present of £5OO.
<* * »
A well-known and straight-going N.S.W.
metallician is said to have obtained his first “ rise”
by a novel display of prowess. He was “ waiting
for something to turn up ” when he espied an
enormous pumpkin cubside the shop-door of a
green-grocer in William-street, Bathurst. The
U3ual up-country crowd with nothing to do and
plenty of time to do it in, was discussing with the
usual number of adjectives the weight of the
pumpkin, when our future turfite offered to carry
the large vegetable on his head without putting it
down to the Melbourne Hotel at Kelso, a distance
of some two miles, foy a wager of £lO. He
quickly found a backer, and, taking up the pump-
kin, sturdily set off and accomplished the feat.
But the display was not So very unusual, when
you come to think about it. Many a man uncon-
sciously carries a pumpkin over his shoulders all
through life—and thinks it’s a head.
§ » t
The Australian pugilists, Peter Jackson,
Tom Meadows, Paddy Gorman, and Sam Fitz-
patrick, are now in the States, and on the war-
path. Jackson, at latest, was trying to get a
match on with M'Auliffe, in ’Frisco, failing which
it was his intention to go on to Chicago. Tom
Meadows is a good man at his weight, and should
give a fair account of himself, but so far as Gor-
man and Fitzpatrick are concerned, beyond bull-
dog courage they have little to recommend them
as pugilists.
• *
A benefit match to George Ulyett, the
English cricketer, played last week at Sheffield,
cleared £lOOO for the popular pro.
Professional pedestrianism has now reached
a point in Sydney second only to first-class race
meetings, both as regards attendance and wager-
ing over the results. At the concluding rounds of
the “Carington Consultation Handicap” on
Saturday night there could not have been less
than 7000 persons present. P. E. Maxwell
(224yd5.), C. Donohue (16yds.), W. Wright
(204yds.), and P. Monaghan (17yds) finished the
final heat in the order named. The betting was
simply tremendous.
* * «►
C. Neilson has thrown out a challenge to
row any iran in Australia for £2OO aside — bar
.Kemp and Hanlan. Stansbury is fpoken of as
likely to pick up the gauntlet, but, so far, he has
not shown that he is form enough for Neilson.
Tom Cannon, the English tuifman, the
other day sold his jockey apprentice, Robinson, to
a sporting peer for no less a sum than £l5OO.
* * *
The Sydney University footballers con-
tinued their successes on Saturday by beat ing the
Balmains badly by 21 points to 2. During the
play Flynn, of the University team, had his ankle
broken.
* * *
The four men in the final for the Carington
Consultation Handicap were all from the country,
Picton, Tenterfield, Young and Quirindi supplying
them. Sydney a : r is evidently not good for the
peds. in big engagements.
* * *
Johnnie Osborne, who rode Ayrshire, the
8 to 1 winner of the Two Thousand Guineas, has
just turned 60 years of age. This makes Osborne’s
sixth Two Thou. win. In ’69 he won the Derby
on Pretender, and he looked a Methuselah amongs t
the silks and satins even then.
* * *
Dead heats are done. Mr. Otto Fuchs, a
Grafton photographer, has been photographing
the finish of each race at the Clarence Tattersall’s
meeting this month. As the instrument can’t lie,
this ought to be a relief to racing judges. The
same thing has been done at Canterbury (Sydney)
course.
* * *
We are sorry to hear that the long and
severe illness of that good sportsman, Mr. Frank
LAMBED DOWN.
BARMAID (lo [?]): “YOU CANT HAVE ANY MORE NOW. THERE’S ONLY A
FEW SHILLINGS LEFT OF YOUR CHEQUE, AND YOU’LL WANT A FEW
DRINKS TO GET SOBER ON.”
Hill, chief of the N.S.W. Money Order Office, has
resulted in his having to retire from the Govern-
ment service.
* * *
Sanders, who rode Dunlop in the last
Melbourne Cup, has gone to England with the
idea of accepting an engagement with Mr. Bob
Howett. There'is just now a dearth of full-grown
jockeys in the old country, and Sanders should
find abundant, opportunity for proving whether
the Australian system of making a hot pace from
the start is more efficacious than the “ waiting ”
game. Sanders sold his interest in Dualop before
he sailed.
* * *
Carrie Swain’s “Tomboy”—whose entry
was ignored by the Press—has been weighted at
7.11 in the Melbourne Cup. “Tomboy” is
generally regarded as an equine Mrs. Harris,
with no existence in fact.
# « «
Wainwright’s inning! of 105, in the York-
shire return match, was the third century scored
against the present Australian Eleven. Wain-
wright scored but nine and a “ duck ” when the
same teams met early in the season.
* * *
Slavin and Burke box eight rounds at the
Hibernian Hall, Melbourne, on July 9. It is ad-
vertised that “The most noble the Marquis of
Queensberry has consented to be referee.” And
this after His Nibs’ recent letter to The Bul-
letin ! !
* • *
Writes a Croydon (N.Q.) correspondent :
—“ Chaplin, the well-known N.S.W. high jumper,
got taken down here by an aboriginal named
Arthur Watts, a native of Ipswich. Neither was
in training, but the nigger jumped sft. 4£in.,
which Chaplin failed to do. Thereupon the boy’s
master backed him again to jump Chaplin for
£lOO a-side, in a given time. After a week or
two s training, the black could jump (any time
you liked to a°k him) 6’t. clear. He also jumped
6ft. 4in. over a single rail of a stockyard, and his
last jump last week was 6ft. 3J,in. Since then,
however, I am very sorry to say, he caught cold,
and died of congestion of the lungs in the hospital
here. _ Without doubt, he was the best jumper the
colonies have ever seen ; as a matter of fact, I
think it would have been hard to find the poor
fellow’s match in the world.”
* « *
Joe Scott won a six-days’ walking match at
the Agricultural Hall, London, beating the best
previous record by nearly a mile. Hibberd, a
very old hand at the business, finished second to
the Australian.
How is it that the N.S.W. Premier, and
not the Minister for Works, has the appointment
of the new Railway Board ?
The c(hears of the N.S.W. Permanent
Artillery are about to enliven the season with a
series of four dances at the Barracks.
The second dance of the Woollahra Private
Assembly for this season took p’ace at Needs’
Rooms on Friday last, and was largely attended
as usual.
After a protracted strike the tailors of
Auckland, N.Z, have resumed the thread of
their narrative. Whilst the strike lasted the
dudes found it a beastly baw, dontcherknow—
they were all non-suited.
A vast bismuth-mine is being worked at
Kingsgate, Glen Innes, N.S.W. One hundred
and fifty tons of ore have already been raised and
sold for between £40,000 and £50,000. So the
owners say, anyhow.
The Sydney Assembly is no longer to be
numbered in the list of winter entertainments,
the subscribers having come to the conclusion that
a sudden death is better than a languishing
vitality. A final ball, however, will probably
take place during the present month
List week, in Sydney, Julius Caesar was
acquitted of stealing five shillings It was proved
that if Julius ever really had the crown he put it
away from him again ; even as he had done on the
Lupercal some 2000 years before, and he was
accordingly discharged. Julius is as black as the
ace of spades.
There is another outcry in Melbourne
about the amount of disease disseminated by con-
taminated milk. No amount of experience seem 3
to teach some people. They will go on taking
their milk in the old way—raw or with tea—what-
ever you may say to them. Therefore they die.
We take ours with rum. Therefore—we are very
much alive, thank you, and how’s all the family?
In 1793, one of the sentinels in Botany
Bay penal settlement declared that while staring
at the moon he had distinctly seen the execution
of Louis XYI. of France ; of that scene he gave a,
most minute description. The soldiers regarded
him as mad, and the commandant of the settle-
ment had him locked up as a lunatic. When the
next ship arrived in Sydney Harbour, some
months later, it brought particulars of the execu-
tion of the French King exactly coinciding with
the madman’s description.
A Sydney journal, in reporting the anti-
Papal circular meeting, states that a resolution
was seconded by “ Mr. Ryan, of Burrowa ” ! The
scribe might just as well have said that Mr.
Smith, of Sydney, had seconded it. When old
John Nagle Ryan settled down at Burrowa he set
about importing from Ireland all the Ryans he
could lay his h inds upon. So that when you are
at Burrow a and meet a man you don't know, you
say, “ Good day, Mr. Ryan !” Just as, when you
are at the Melbourne Lands Office on pay-day
you say “Good day, Mr. Oohen ” to the unknown
man whom you see at the enquiry-window.
£7, conscience-money, was sent to a
Wodonga (Vic.) constable the other day, by some
regenerate wretch who has hitherto kept a pad-
lock on his pantry-door, we presume.
Jos. Symes, the Melbourne' atheistic
slog'ger, has been blackballed by the pious section
of the local Democratic Club. They consider the
lank agnostic too Dei-mockratic, doubtless.
Spurgeon, it seems, 'is endeavouring to
federate the Baptist congregations who hang on
to his hoary doctrines. They will be known as
the Hell Fire Brigade, we guess. Or the Ever-
lasting Tormentors.
A brilliant assemblage of some two
hundred people filled the beautiful ballroom at
Chatsworth, Sydney, on Friday evening last, in
response to the invitations issued by Mrs. C. J,
Roberts some weeks previously. Dancing com-
menced shortly after nine, and was kept up until
past two the next morning, the floor being oc-
cupied during the interval with some 50 or 60
couples who appeared to think they could never
have enough of it. The ball was greatly enjoyed
by the guests, all the arrangements made by host
and hostess for their comfort being perfect. Not
the least noticeable feature of the scene was the
brilliant display of costumes, most of the ladies
present having evidently devoted more than usual
attention to their adornment.
Says Melbourne Herald : “ Some in-
fusion of Woodsworth’s spirit would do a deal of
good in softening the roughness of many of the
city youths.” No doubt, but who’s Woodsworth ?
Name sounds familiar, too, somehow. “ Woods
worth’s Old Unsweetened?’ No. “Woods-
worth’s Real Old Jamaica,” “ Woodsworth’s
Sparkling Excelsior Lager,” “ Ask for Woods-
worth’s whisky and see that you get it.” “ Woods-
worth the ’Dyspeptic’s Friend ? ” No, none of
these will do. Then who the devil is Woodsworth?
Mr. S. V. Winter might be kind enough to tell us,
and we might try if some of Woodsworth’s spirit
wouldn’t soften our roughness a bit.
The “ As You Like It” man, in the S.M.
Herald, remarks that “it is possible that Mr.
Wise may lose a certain amount of support at the
next election through the plain statement of his
opinions ” (as to the inevitableness of Australian
separation from England). Not so, dear friends.
Mr. Wise is an astute young man who believes in
keeping his political creed up to date. Mr. Wise
no doubt has a dim recollection of the fact that at
last election, with all the forces of the N.S.W.
Ministry behind him, he, the then Attorney-
General, only succeeded in beating Mr. Traill, an
uncompromising advocate and pioneer of Austra-
lian Nationalism, by a dozen or two votes. By
next election time we may find Mr. Wise howling
for the Australian Republic—and let us have it
quickly, please, waiter, as we have to catch the
train to Parliament House.
From the Melbourne Daily Telegraph,
organ of Southern unco guidness, a newspaper
edited by a clergyman and owned by a syndicate
of saints :
“Sydney rejoices, amongst other dubious privileges, in
the possession of a Sunday newspaper. And by some
occult law of antagonism a Sunday newspaper is usually
more intensely secular—not to say profane—than ordinary
journals, having a distinct weakness for sports ft the more
brutal type. [The law of compensation, dear Fitohett, the
law of compensation.—Ed. B ] The law which forbids all
oth°r occupations being carried on for profit on Sundays
—[How about the collection-plate, dear boy?—Ed. B ] —
makes, of course, no exception in favour of newspapers,
and the Sydney law courts have given the Sunday journal
referred to a sharp reminder to this effect. Mr. Justice
Dowling, as will be seen by the report which appears else-
wherp, has decided—[The reverend editor carefully sup•
presses the facts that h s Honor expresfed his deep regret
T.hat the law conpe'led him thus to decide, and that his
Hone’s remaras sympathising with defendant were re-
ported in all ih° papers.— Ed. P.]—that a newspaper pub-
lished on Sunday cvnnot recover charges for advertise-
ments, as the Supreme Court has decided that the selling
of the paper on Sunday is illegal. The obligations due to
a Sunday newsp iper are, in the eye of the law, exactly
like the obbgation aiising under a bet. A betting trans-
action is per se illegal, and the Courts «iff not enforce
debts o»ea-ed by betting. [As a matter of fact this does’nt
at ail bear on the moral aspect of the case, as the Courts
every dav en'rne the payment of wage-s made on silver-
stocks. —Ed. B ] So the sale of a Sunday newspaper is
illegal, and the Courts will not assist the proprietor to
recover debts due to him for the use of his paper as an
advertising medium. Ttiis is an essentially salutary and
wise decision, and goes far to make impossible what
otherwise would soon appear upon the scene amongst us
—a Sunday newspaper.”
Melbourne, we may remark, “rejoices in the pos-
session ” of a Monday newspaper, which, in defer-
ence to the demands of piously-conducted com-
merce, does not commence its 'printing operations
till one minute past 12 on Sunday night. But the
poor reporter, finding the office ; door shut in his
lace until sacerdotal midnight has gone by, sits in
a public-house hard by at any time between 7
o’c'ock and 12 on Sunday night preparing “copy”
for the godly authorities of his rag, under the
benign stimulation of rum-and-gingerbeer. At
least this was the order of things, according to a
rumour extensively circulated among pressmen,
not so many months ago, and judging from the
quality of Monday’s Telegraph—and Tuesday’s
Telegraph, too, for that matter—we don’t sup-
pose that affairs have since been altered much. As
for the Telegraph’s views regarding the “obliga-
tions due to a Sunday newspaper, ” are we to con sider
that the contentions of the holy sheet embody the
Christianity of the Melbourne merchant, or only
the commercialism of the soi-disant Melbourne
Christian? The editor of the Melbourne D.T.
gets his reports of Sunday’s proceedings handed
to him at five minutes past twelve on Monday
morning. Where does the “copy” come from?
Is it written on Sunday by men who are paid for
writing it on Sunday and whom the proprietors of
the Melbourne D.T. compel, or allow, to work on
Sunday, or does it come down from Heaven in a
chariot of fire addressed to the saints of the D.T.
aforesaid ? Out upon such humbug ! Bosh, Editor
Eitchett. Likewise Hallelujah and Hi-yah !
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. July
Handicap, Rosebill, July 28, 1888. 4000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First horse, £BOO ; Second,
£250; Third, £150; Starters, £250; Non-starters,
£250 (divided amongst them), and 100 Cash
Awards of £3 each. Also, July Handicap. 3000
Subscribers at 20s. each. First horse, £l5OO ;
Second, £6OO ; Third, £300; Starters, £3OO ; Non-
starter, £3OO (divided amongst them). The Tram-
way Handicap, August 28,1888. 4000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dal veen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Offioe,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Hotels.
fi9| le Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
PwliMaen. Houses, Botanical Borden,
*® d Queensland Club.
FAMILY HOTEL.
40 °0MaiODATlON FOR NINETY.
meets every Steamer.
** d Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
Otters
JI SS°Y HOTEL
ROCKHAMPTON,
*St.Ct ASS Family Hotel.
*Wnt* sito e and Bhower Bath -
ttoofl StahH 8 ' r °° m ’ witbtmt extra charge.
Every accommodation.
• WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
ART HOTEL
m * r olal TVo,; Accommodation lor Com
travellers and Families.
. **<Z m J T ' CLASS chef -
-1 ooinf Ts ®verv Steamer.
°~ Travellers a Special Study,
sample rooms.
A* V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
WZ* H °TEL, BOULBL'RM.N.B.K
Kottlemen for oommerol
»o ottlB . j A d^ erB - Private sitting roon
SIMONS, Proprietor.
kast-street, ROCI
jC£ de »lean?;" T - MURPHY, Proprietor.
H&V "Icanrf ! ~ The “Western Chai
0 to my Wfu>t^° ommend the Rookhampti
- friends."
« vna «r bh MORqA - HoTel » QUEENSLA]
JjSkmt®** A^MuHo iBhed patrona g e Of Hlfl
I^f°vlB& rave . K.C.M.G. Aooon
a Two-storey buildings. I
2S> Sfe? I®B 1 ® 8 a sSen, l^' Bt °^ yl ' >a ’ ildl^W^*
SC rate d view ean be obtained
M mall abi of the, ain of Sold, and within a :
bS Li° ach es danv D ? any s works - Pasaen
y from Rockhampton i
’ flrmn.n; W - MONCKTON, *
of Monckton and Co.
ana uo.
— —
first
table,
i*®* Moderate.
—w-class
•mfiw
HOUSE
~R*m Q i? IcORGB S r
JOE p/® BA NK.
Proprietx
, T Corner of
. BHT a^?P RGK STREETS,
Sj>i HOTEL , CHARTERS
V o^^, 1 ® p Sding erected in i
W °l Qm and Church Stri
JL* COUGH, Propriet
«*® n RGAN
>,, s ,*' a " »^^ al Hoto1 ’
heauttfaiiy done up, and
\ !*■ Celia- ! be *®°eption of visitors.
» B J°oked with best brands
"'" ’ * lr8 ' Hkiskb, Proprietress.
fl «rciai liTT—
tel » Qympie, Queemte
*
2? d
-oie. Botei« f , the oWeBt Family and
6t| or roon jll the oolon y‘ Prices
Mr ß ttC^ ,0n * Pot ard Cold Baths
- p ropr i etreBH>
v W^^oxjßwa.
** *U*
! mtTB, Spbnobk-bibbmx,
‘ 4, t*
Sh p
add}?!® above hotel > whlch
V 1! itoDrn ltion of over 100 rooms,
V) v ements > such as light,
L>> hm - drooaiB > large public-
Vh pasftp^ nd cold baths, shower
?S5 eleva tor, electric
VV& oaiip! ll An st> b ® r hotel requisites, not
Visitors can rely
rQtll PUy trains. Letters
\ at tended to. Prices very
w t>Sl O» WOODS .
Qk ~ "- , ' Wn "»' and Proprietor
*»Hote Albury.i
?N3he be , come Lessee of
. Ci^ v 6h 6 l lll ß begs to inti-
k>« to th e t'hat every atten-
'fe&te&V 23553^“'
under the
Baths,
u’'«, wc «t) l “ bal-
‘ te s*£| fc^- S - W - and Vl °-
tele^rama promptly
F, ° T ° M °Na. Prourielos.
Business Announcements,
E. E MlLitfß,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
tUNUFACTu«£RS
* IMPORTERS or
jjATSfoPSfc
438 CEORCC S'
SYDNEY
UMBRELLAS
FIE-COVSREO.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Vmbrena r*
corered, and your
Paranoia re-lined and made ©qua.
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, betweeo
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasols made to match coe
tumes. Bonaire neatly exei "*4*l
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets),
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
1 M PORTERS Of All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
KXLIIF nov COUCH II TEH MimJTES.
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUND.
Ik* MMlurteta ■*! tor Ceugrhs, Colts s,
■nnoiMi, oaf an kliorfero of tin cheat and
li*nn. It hai Brand (Mali th* Meat incceuful prepate-
"Minrolnt Tha eale It hnwofng dully.
JT HAB A MOBT JLEABANT TASTE.
Ia tk* nanny it il Urtlokb, aa children are fond *1
L leuaediataly it It Ink— CemfUnf cease*, n*>
loMam i* feme, ul •iflrtiklßt Sleep ensues.
Ke lady whe kaa mm* tried il wesld ever afterward! k*
L
A. HAYMAN * 00. (lata of Neath),
IS, Aunuiu ■*., Imdov, England.
Pile* la 1J4., Sa M., 4a 14., * 11a per bottle.
{fnti in tUck yrar Ohm M t rill p recur* it.'
THE ORICINAL
P
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
. O R *
V. • . V.,v. . .. ;
■ HIGHEST DECREE OF MEKII
#Gr°
ISTHE BEST INTHt WORLD f
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H S
RE zav toTH t' i N TtRNAt I ON A t
PR I I E MEDAL
ttAflUfACnJltU> BYjAlitsDlAHHOfl
Bampvr iMromf
Odd t? AD
Business Announcements,
M
0 H U M S N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailings.
Designs awd forwarded on reqnest
J. CBIKKINttHAM,
MARSU.RMT-BTBMT, WYNYA.RD.BQUa.Bm, BYDNMY
8
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
c ha
&
v
PATENT
PILLS.
w
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervout and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
lor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bkkcuam’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. l£d. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... „ £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaaa, nan offer special facilities for deeding
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commeroied and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred't.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIf Acting Manager.
gCIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY or other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &o m
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,
53, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get hia
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is'confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N.B. —I wish it distinctly understood that Ido not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed fn my speciality.
Note Address —
PROGRESSIVE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
63, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
UT No connection with a,ny other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 253, G.P.O.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITIOM
LONDON.
By Speoial Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balohin, Johnston & Co,,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
SB
jnrunmr
WE can recommend the Imperial ITai*
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D*'RIDGE’S
FOOD
m INFANTS am INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England. 1
’iinj is now being introduces* tot© thfl
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get etAUpplVv
•9 every wise mother will certaipljA
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD afiLLStf
LONDON. ENGLAND.
w.
MA. BRONCWTIS, COUGHS
:
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
K
MdHAM
MAS
£
OC K H
MU
T O
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON BALK-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets,
trrm ■ir*m
Copyrighted.
koastjcho »nd WkiskorsT
Boyd’* Beard Elixir did tl'ls.
|rtNd will do it on either bald
'head or bare face- Forcet
heart/ Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fail*, 20,000'
... young men already wear full
beanie, having used 1 to 3 pits. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 3d. each, 3 for 3s. 3d., post paid, tent under
•over, free from observation. Address, Prank Bonglu, Sole Agent,
twwt fjjccji vim
B«rio,<? fim?fißi i4 7i ii ■■» ?’ w
■ EPOIg
Copyright**.
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin BfakW
• 890 PITT STREET,
Marquees'on'Hire.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thsm Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
tor pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson’s celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE.
Is unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name.
ATKINSON'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SCAR.
This world-renowned soap Is superior to all
others lor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
very lasting in use
Of oil Dealers, and of the Manufacturers —
/ & E ATKINSON,
14, Old Bond Street, London
Trade Mark—‘‘White Rose'' on“ Golden


ROYALX^If
m
*akih 6
POWDER
Absolutely Pure°
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
—ie s . X 3.
111708718 07
mr WINES, SPIRIT S, BEER S, &C., AsO., *■*
George and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (o, 10, lo and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
MT The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t3T All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-stroet.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 fieorge Street, Sydney-
&T SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
eiismlm hues' eefuiii tuis »i uunit,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdern & Sons).
Produce Stores * gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.
P
ITBIW
FURKTTURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYHYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICK LIST, FRKK ON APPLIOATION.
WALT, AOH BROTHERS.
ram, noi not
For Artistic Poal “* g a n and brilliwor.
combining Jjg- -£
Ilf
Photograph* Of
tUMHIMT »
ROYAL ABCADB^
ISTAND^BMINSNTLY^
COLEMANE & jW*
ECCA.LYPTE OD*.
Victory OrtgjgJ
A Pure Extract fromjfte <
Awarded GOLD comp
beating Bosisto and Exhibit! 011 ’ sy
Ist Prize Great Centennial
Can be used for CtaJggJß’adtSS
itis, Rheumatism, NeurdgJ. Colds , Dyse
d Gravel Complaints,! ddreSB .
iut, etc. Posted to any aMU ndBA. pj * ;
Manufactory: ET Moo» K
-
hi
pafjj
By w. old jsen.
Book for Young and Ol j
ad in cloth, and contain*
a. Price, post from ;<jr
pie free. Those at
rtion and Diseases BbofJJwr W-
table work. AddroS ® nr Bourse a° d
a Office Chambers, corner
efcs, MelboxxTP e > Vie*
A Blessing to every
6 r a
"8252. a t^iSSBES
>alimr virtues of these gra° a r ™ m •» p
usedby thousandaof gsJ&*fl*g*BU Jrf
° There tsnot a ocronW JSimi
their ben
WILLIAM BULLARD, 343 GEORGE
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans. Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese
9 BALL PROGRAMMES.
-A- lv£ars23.all <£& Co.,
ENGINEERS, COPPER SMITHS, BRASS & BELL POUNDERS,
FINISHERS, PLUMBERS, GASFITTERS,
SHIP & GENERAL SMITHS, ART & MEDIAEVAL METAL WORKERS.
Roller Skates, any make, with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
vr Agents for “Verity’s’' Patent Gas Fires and Heaters at Greatly Reduced Prices.
Cheapest and most satisfactory fire in the market. Over 11,000 already m use.
Yacht and Boat Work of every description in Iron or Brass.
Ships’ SINGLE and DOUBLE Action Valve Closet. Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
' 9 MACQUARIE PLACE and STANMORE ROAD, PETERSHAM.
OP
A
£f»S
a llP Ufl
INDIA RUBBER Ml AN U F ACTIJB
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, *
Rubber Valves, Washers, Goskets, &c., &c. Moulded to any size. Rubber £
Lists and Samples on Appiicat 10n '^ 1 <
NERVOUS D E B I L
um A PEEK MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist m EVoC s
- • - • Free Medical Book on Self-Cur® fob
Will send (post free) to anyone a
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers.
Addsess-
II s*>
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish HarW^g
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW P, m
<3- 3T_ PICKLES <35 SOUS, Caxriag'e
the MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
ssr
City Repository:
Metropolitan Manufactory:
5,
7,9,
3 2.
11
3 4,
LATROBE STREET WEST, IH
36 BRUNSWICK STREET, F
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
' . t»at xmr TT-iT-nTjT, mTTTCJ riT Aaa Av* THE
rrWF
mwrrn V POTTCTFS WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.-A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for TUP pA*
PREMIUMS PAID 7S RETURNED ian ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or m the Event of Survival, F
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. 83T Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
0
ofj/
L E A &PERRINSSAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERSHIR&
UGE which arc calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and t'emnM
have ta request that Purchasers see that the Lafal estcry daltm
hears their Signature thus**
without which 00 bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fot ISA «*M PS&&W& «** se * I
&topptr^ ; ., WkolesaU 9ni for Export by the Proprietors, X'ZZZLt\hZW"I£
UlacJAveU, London, &V..&V. t and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wort*.
ipfier. Label* BottU <snA
Worcester ;. Cross* and
TEETH LIKE PEA»g|
white and Bound teeth, perfect freedom from decay,* healthy action of «<**
JaSly fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powder*
•sad using daily
■«i Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder
«*rb*l, and warranted free from any
5®
pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing
■ om-gritty tootk powder: such EOWJuANDS’ ODQNTQJias always pjroved »
' No other'Odonto is genuine*
ROWLANDS* MACASSAR OIL u » *>* «* *
Mr and golden-haired people and children.
of **> m »twn aammkuxju uy
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bbos., and E. Pbossbß^
TO gjTTTP.Trn-ross
Tctct T'ammrrrn l Trtpod in the world is “ Wi933n3f'a NTaw Patent” with traversing head. A few of the many reasons for this bold assertion
j r iTOrQinjati and private surveyors of the present time; it is lighter than the old style ; possesses ample traversing motion ; cylindrical stem with broad steady be»£
the ■hefn. hammer hlrXned and alternately of gun metal and brass) ; can be made any length from less than four to upwards of six feet; any number of tfjj
*s tester,
