

xforeT hotel,
SYDNEY.
P®NRY THORPE Proprietor.
Lata of the BADEN BADEN HOTEL, COOGEE.
©
Si <|
m
..........
i
*
TTTT7TT
(MIT
liimiillfinl
. «0 1
PM
i ~;4 S
;i »■ i l ™!
TH
mil! j
~i Miinisr. W
P 1
I .!
imuniwimi
iniinmimn
ti
Va ted and central position in Sydney,
Courts, Maequarie-street, Hyde Park,
at TOP of KING STREET, adjacent to
Domain and the Botanical Gardens.
all
Te suites, ladies’ drawing-room, and good airy bedrooms.
THE HOTEL IS REPLETE WITH EVERY CONVENIENCE.
“^1
with Hot and Cold Water. Telephonic Communication. Telegraph Office in Hotel.
entirely New Management, and the present proprietor trusts by careful attention to business to make the
Oxford a Comfortable Home for Visitors or .Residents of Sydney.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
y
mmWTu?
SL
n^T>«nhfthnhi*>^‘<wHMtn>tj>
' Goior* Sr/tup/
A/ve
ffUACII
RFf/NfRS
f esro
/ass C
h£a9 Orncc & factory hcwtowh
Branch. jSeorce S r Sydney
Waverley Hotel,
OOLLINS-PLAOE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COIJES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements
TO BA
CO
“V,
IXSOPSQNS
*
C 3
O
v
o
PcVrC
SIR ROGER
5-0
P
§Bf
DIXSONS
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office s
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
nUHS H EMPLOYMENT MX
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
limply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
PAIN
MOULTON'S TAIN PAINT
CURES AkL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &0.,
and taken Internally cures DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
Internal aohes and pains.
Q/. Boiq Cverywlidiy
I. 1, MOULTON, MU MtOWIETOII.
WElßor b jsjE aJ* £> 6 VY;
Paint
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
Business A nnouncements.
73
HE
REMINGTON
TYPE-WRITER.
Bare* la boar, stationery, and time, writing much taster
ohan expert pen-men, at d condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by nen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kenb-streob.
ft.
M.
R
(labe of bhe Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds ol
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Detective Foroe of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secreoy, and to faithfully ana
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his oare.
FREE!
PRESCRIPTIONS ace to
be found In the “ LIGHT AND
life," for the Speedy Core of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of t>hlß
book will be Bent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
Iffnntftr.Btreet. Sidney.
E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUBENS’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed- of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
. - MELBOURNE.
QXJEiEnsrsxL.^.iNriD.,
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
L SOVEREIGN EE 11 EDI
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
C URE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. 1. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
(681 Gteorgo-street, only.:
m
Business Announcements.
McLEIN BROS., RIQG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
o
c
Sir
s
IRONMONGERS
512
p
<*
c>
RE&v
H
BaWa’ Swwmg HLaobVaa, ’Sto-TpcsraVEaloX., KWiw \ivvt\ittw \AvCa\.
Bt.I£OTBO-FU&.TI£B WASB, OTJIUSKY, \
\ «AH CXJOKING BTOVKS I—BKONTS FUKTCDLKR'3 IBAKB 8c WABKKFI'a
\ BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., Geo,
TTT-IXjLIL^IMIS’S
VV JL. i J I II -fcA—AA/4-PW
imiuu nisi poii*
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR
1 ■ jffi l
BREAD, TBA-CAEE3, PASTB T ’
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGS
WHEN MADE WITH
ggrpjßtE
Williams Australian least f
EOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THEfI SEA.
&T BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS-/**
' MM r!!!!'
SOLD IN TINS AT od. THE HAL
5#
itcE#m* on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
y
&
PIMPLES
i rvIBBIGURING- HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
lif tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
ILoathsomc Sores, and every speoies of Itching,
jSsaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
JLoss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Outiouka Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
ilatemally, and Guticura and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Htehing and Burning Skin Diseases,
ISaksrs’, Barbers", Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Htehing Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
I® both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
With Cutioura Soap and a single application of
©Utioura, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
(Sadly, with three doses of Cutioura Resolvent,
LJill speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
I A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
OOLvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun puDlic places by reason
•f my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
mo relief until I used the Cutioura Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
M pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
bcok, " How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Australian Cohsionekb,
ft. Towns * Co., New South Woles.
CUTIOUBA RESOLVER - t
fler, Diuretic, and Ajmrwn
and Perspiration of aUWSI
Element!, and thus remove* ?B d 0 - /
it cures apeedily,
&s£&sjMii
Jelly for external use), &nd
Inflammation, clears the Skin p e9 d “ \t rc ,
Sores,and Dandruff, destn£cb arg cf]V
heals Ulcers, Sores, and V* tfle
stores the Hair, and WEd
PV&iffl
Outicura Soap an e jfs£d n<=
and Toilet Requisite, prepay
indispensable in treating o**“
indispensable in treating ~y }*<•"* * t
morsf Skin Blemishes,
burn, and Rough, Chapped^>-r
_ o^m
Outicura f r e<>
Purifiers and Skin Beautifi® pfykf
arsenic, lead, zinc, oi any /,
table poison whatsoever, v //
fy the Analytical <-&e®
ljß ts- 11 “
etti
|l.‘<)o: OtmoußA Soap, 20
ino dCAP, 15 cents! CtM™**
per bottle,
J»**Wk**® **„
Potter Drat * Chsm* 6 *
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL^
above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study.
. Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Table -
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE
J. J. FALLON
rfWO
o9 r
Pi-


The Bulletin
Vol. 9-No. 434.
SATURDAYr MAY 36, 1888.
Price, 6d.
Rubbish from the Cabbage-garden.
Premier Gillies sends the Chow Invasion on to Premier Parkes.


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
PROPRIETORS : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.;
Lighted.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum _£l 0
.Half-yearly 0 ™ 6
Quarterly 0 0 0
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macusod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. I‘.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand • that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can hare Tiie Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
itfJZattetCa.
SATURDAY, MAY 26.
The Premter and the Pariah.
All readers of Mark Twain will remember
how Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn,
when making their final preparations for
following the gentle and idyllic career of
pirates, refused to stoop to a low theft and
provision their raft with a stolen ham. They
desired to begin honestly ! As a young
nation just on the verge of national exist-
ence it would be well for Australia to begin
her career in a similar fashion. We can
afford to be not only just, but generous ;
but let us, before all things, be at least just.
Sir Henry Parkes, speaking of the inten-
tions of the New South Wales Government
in regard to the Chinese passengers on
board the Afghan, Tsinan, and other vessels
lying in Sydney Harbour, said that he would
see them not only carried back to Hong-
kong, but that they should not be left there
without means to reacli their homes. “If
anything more than that were necessary to
be done, he (Sir Henry Parkes) would
incur the risk of having it done.” Something
more is necessary. We claim to be a civil-
ised people ; we . claim that one of the
reasons why we should exclude the Chinese
is that they belong to an “ inferior ” race ; we
claim to be the inheritors of centuries of in-
tellectual and moral culture. As mere savages,
as mere physical animals fighting like brute-
beasts against brute-beasts to keep the lower
lip above water and to beat our adversary
down, the instinct of self-preservation might
impel us to acts of violence and blood.
Thereby we should be merely obeying the
most dominant law of our being. In the
name of this paramount instinct, which at
times puts on an aspect of frenzy and sweeps
everything before it, Sir Henry Parkes
pleads for restrictive legislation against the
Chinese. We admit the potency of the
plea ; but we are not entirely savages,
though many of us approximate dangerously
near the low level of savagedom both in
thought and in action.
* * *
Centuries of culture have superimposed the
artificial and civilised man upon the bed-rock
of naturalism, and the civilised man is a
stickler for justice ; for consideration for the
weak and the undefended, the oppressed, the
imbecile and incompetent. As founders of
this southern world we boast our wealth and
prosperity. By our own showing we can
afford to handsomely compensate those who
have suffered by our disregard of our own
existent laws. We should be doing nothing
very great even if we exceeded the utmost
limit of adequate compensation. We have
broken our laws and sullied our traditions by
a piece of mean and gratuitous injustice.
Let us make amends ! The Chinese came
here not even in error. Our statutes gave
them free passport, and we excluded them
in defiance of our own legislative enactments.
Clearly, they are entitled to some consider^-
tion ; nay, to some very considerable amount
in pecuniary damages.
• *
The Chinese are the more to be pitied
because they are the victims cf political
blundering and parliamentary Machiavellian-
ism. There was neither resolve nor inten-
tion on the part of the Government to keep
them out of New South Wales until the
popular clamour broke all bounds and dashed
in an angry flood against the very walls of
Parliament House itself and threatened to
sweep away the Ministry that existed by
virtue of the popular suffrage: We do not
blame the agitation which found its vent in
something closely approaching a riot, but we
do blame the Government for not doing
until popular pressure was brought to bear
upon it what ought to have been done weeks
before. Sir Henry Parkes, notwithstand-
ing all the fire and fury of his defiant speech
when introducing his Chinese restrictive
measure, his been everything by turns and
nothing longer thin it suited him. His pre-
sent attitude cf dare devil defiance is not
die passing mood of a moment of madness
or delirium. It is deeply calculated. Ip is
die growth only of a few weeks, but it is a
gigantic tribute to the national Australian
sentiment.
» * *
The Premier of New South Wales, this
tame red hot republican, once wrote —just
now four years ago—on the excessive beauty
and holiness of Imperial Federation ; but a
week since he denounced it as an idle and
baseless chimera. There is a struggle on
every hand amongst colonial politicians to
get astride the crest of the advance wave of
the new movement. Sir Thomas M‘ll-
wraith was the first with courage and fore-
sight enough to invoke it in Queensland.
Mr. J. L. Purves, in Victoria, called loudly
on the sleeping genius, and it issued forth
no larger than the wreath of smoke from the
magic jar in the Oriental legend, but it daily
gains in strength and density. Sir Henry
Parkes’ ambition was fired. The meeting
of the Anti-Chinese League, with the Mayor
of Sydney at its head, which swarmed up
to the very vestibule of Government itself,
showed the Premier of New South Wales
the power he had to conjure with if he, wise
in his generation, took sides with the cry
that was loudest. He hesitated not a second.
Law was set aside, the forms of justice and
international comity were sunk in abeyance,
the Supreme Court was defied, and the
power of England derided. The action of
the Premier is simply a bid for popular
suffrage ; a request for a new lease of power;
an appeal to the ballot-box. More, it is an
appeal to the ballot-box of New South
Wales.
* * *
Strong in his ancient belief that the colony
of which Sydney is the capital is the real
and only Australian Continent, and that
everything beyond the 142nd meridian of
longitude, north of the Dumaresq, and
south of the Murray, is mythical and non-
existent, Sir Henry Parkes framed a Bill
which deals with China from the foothold of
a continent. China is to be allowed the
same privileges in “ Australia ” (New South
Wales), in order to observe the letter of the
treaty, that the English enjoy in China.
Englishmen enjoy in China the right to
trade and dwell in five cities. In order
that the treaty may not be violated the
Chinese in “ Australia,” according to the pro-
visions of Parkes’ Bill, will have the right
to trade and live in five cities—that is, in five
cities of New South Wales. Were each of
the colonies so to legislate, seeing that there
are seven of them, the Chinese would have
the right to live and trade in 35 Australian
cities as against five cities in China
surrendered by the Imperial Mantchoorian
to the exploitation of John Bull. Sup-
posing India, Canada, Fiji, and every self-
governing British dependency of England,
and also England herself, legislated for the
Chinaman in a similar fashion, where would
be the equality of rights existing between
the English and the Chinese that Parkes
pretends to be so anxious to preserve ?
In this desire to maintain the fictitious
treaty-equality, Parkes overlooks two things.
First: It is all very well to put the Chinese
in Australia —after they have /got here—on
the same footing as Englishmen in China,
but it must be remembered that ships
trading to China are not limited to only one
Englishman to 300 tons of cargo ; neither is a
poll-tax of £2O placed on the heads of English
subjects, which has to be paid before they are
permitted to land. Here, at once, is a diver-
gence from the fiction of equal rights! In the
second place, this pretended (and it is only
pretended) regard for the treaty existing
between Great Britain and China would
place Australia in a very peculiar position if
China threw open her territory to-morrow
to the white faced foreigner ! Another
source of weakness in Parkes’ popular Bill was
pointed out by Dr. Garran in the N.S.W.
Legislative Council. Inasmuch as the Bill
is uni-colonial, and New South Wales has no
guarantee that other colonies will legislate
in an equally stringent fashion, the Chinese
will naturally flock to that colony whose legis-
lation is the least restrictive, and cross over
into the neighbouring states. There are no
means of keeping them out, unless it is
seriously proposed to post a line of skir-
mishing picquets round the frontiers of each
colony. It is a case of the back-door of the
Continent over again.
* * *
But the weakest part of Parkes’ Bill is its
anti-fe Acral character. He has over ridden
every principle of justice and set at nought
the law of tire land ; he has mocked at the
vice-regal authority and defied the Supreme
Court in the frantic haste of one who has
never originated anything of a legislative
character in his life, and who was now
anxious to make up for lost time and impose
a solitary measure upon the whole of the
Continent before he died. He said the other
day that he did not believe in Imperial
Federation. He declared that he was with
John Bright upon this question. N'' e
remember that John Bright ridiculed any-
thing like Colonial Federation quite as
much as he ridiculed anything like Imperial
Federation. We are prepared to believe that
Parkes is a disciple of Bright’s. Last year
he indulged in an anti-patriotic and bur-
glarious attempt to filch the name of the
Continent, and in defiance of all federal
sentiment bestow it upon the colony over
which he shook his mane. Quite recently
lias he churlishly and unpatriotically refused
to co operate in any manner with the Vic-
torian Government in matters affecting ques-
tions of defence and universal Australian
policy. # #
Dr. Gauran —strangely enough—put his
finger on this weak spot in Parkes’ Chinese
Restriction Bill. The Premier, said the
doctor, had invited the other colonies to
send representatives to a conference to be
held in Sydney to discuss the expediency of
joint legislation respecting the exclusion of
the Chinese from Australia. The act of pre-
cipitant legislation on the part of the Premier
of New South Wales looks remarkably like
an attempt to jump the position. This is
the true cause of the suspension of the
standing orders, the defiance of the Su-
preme Court, the belittling of the preroga-
tive of the Governor, the challenge to
England. Sir Henry Parkes wanted to
be first! He wanted to give effect to
one original act of legislation before going to
the tomb. He wanted at the same time to
conciliate the ballot-box, to emulate the
popularity of MTlwraith and Pitrves, and
to act independently of the other colonies
and in defiance of the sentiment of solidarity
and Australian federalism. The Chinese on
board the Afghan and the other ships in
Sydney harbour are simply the victims of
Sir Henry Parkes’ insane and vaulting
ambition.
* * •
The Chinese must go ! This is a decision
we in Australia have all long since come to,
but being a civilised people we are not de-
sirous of pitch-forking them over the Heads.
The Chinese must go ; but there are methods
in their going. For the Premier’s conduct
we Australians are likely to pay dearly. That
spirit of growing federation between the
peoples of Victoria, Queensland, South Aus-
tralia, New South Wales, Western Australia,
Tasmania, and New Zealand, which it was
hoped the Chinese agitation would expand,
cement, and solidify, ha 3 received a severe
blow. Very likely the Premier’s overweening
vanity has put back that national and federal
movement for 50 years or more. And these
persecuted Chinese are the innocent cause of a
fresh feud added to the great pile of jealousies
which tend to keep Australian States and
Australian peoples bitterly watchful and
aggressively asunder. Parkes, while phras-
ing Republican sentiment and declaiming
patriotic platitudes, was cunningly stirring
up the smouldering fires of intercolonial
hate, as in times past, to suit the fleeting
interest of the hour, he has stirred up the
blood-red embers of sectarian bigotry and
superstitious intolerance.-
* * •
Sir Henry Parkes is a terrible blunderer,
but this is the most magnificent blunder he
ever in his life did perpetrate. It lo so
heroic that the peop'e will forgive him by
virtue of the strength of his lungs. But,
while we cheerfully give Parkes all the
credit due to his anti-imperialistic utter-
ances, we must censure him for delaying ac-
tion, for bungling in regard to the Afghan
and other steamships having on board
Chinese passengers, for setting aside the
forms of justice, and for ever appealing to
England at all. This last was a terrible
mistake It was a practical surrender of all
Australia’s rights to regulate her own house-
hold, and was as painfully ludicrous as the
present indecent haste to re- assert that right
by whirlwind legislation. It somewhat re-
sembles the young bride who is temporarily
over-awed by the long-standing in her hus-
band’s household of her mother-in-law, but
who no sooner gives way to the old lady in a
moment of weakness than she is ashamed of
herself, and endeavours to make good her
fast-slipping authority with the bounce of the
parvenu and the boisterousness of the
hoiden. Yet all this aside, if Sir Henry
Parkes is to blame, -what are we to say of
some of his critics and opponents, who
fought every clause of the Bill, not on the
merits of the case, but by disgusting displays
of grovel and toadyism to the Im-
perial connection and appeals to the
Queen, and other such anti-Australian
and degrading behaviour ? Whether honestly
or designingly, Sir Henry Parkes has ac-
cepted the responsibility of uttering the
phrases of MTlwraith and chanting the
responses of Young Australia. So far, we
give him credit; so far, we censure the op-
ponents of his policy who profess the faith
of St. Jingo and abase themselves before
the shrine of a distant figure-head. But
with the method of Parkes’ madness we are
entirely at issue, and s v m , dl he, in addition
to an act which is i.. .t«oA anti fo ,o-al and
antagonistic to the feeling of good-fellowship
which should subsist between all Australians,
permit the Chinese to depart for Hongkong
without making every reparation and com-
pensation to them for the inconvenience,
and hardship, delay and loss they have ex-
perienced, he will find the crest of the wave
he has mounted feather into spray beneath
him, dashing him, politically bruised and
bleeding, on the beach of disaster and dis-
grace. Australia has begun to be a fully -
fiedged nation, only just begun, perhaps ;
but she is determined to make a clean and
honourable beginning, and not freight the
raft of her progress with the stolen ham of
spurious and discredited patriotism.
The Greal Chlnese Fall.
The Chinese upheaval in New South Wales lias
furnished Parkes with an opportunity of posing,
in his political capacity, as the last earthly possi-
bility in the way of a mental wreck, and he has
grasped at the happy chance with a soulful earn-
estness which has gratified every one who knows
him. For thirty years and more the old man’s
jiplicy has been a ceaseless toss-up with circum-
stances, and he has generally lost; in every crisis
of his fortunes he has fallen, and every time he
has fallen with the buttered side down. Amid the
intellectual “pi ” of his being he never, by any
chance, gets hold of the right idea when it is
wanted; in fact his menial resources consist
entirely in a cloud of battered fragments of de-
faced inspirations, and among them all there re-
mains not one whole theory or one sentiment
which has not been damaged beyond repair. The
statute-book of New South Wales is strewn with
the remains of a hundred foundered policies which
he has successfully borrowed and turned upside
down, and his Chinese policy is the last and worst
of them all.
* * *
A few weeks ago the Chinese agitation pro-
mised to pay no dividends, and the opponents of
the lep u r found Sir Henrt in an intensely loyal
and disagreeable mood His one central idea was
that England might possibly help Australia, but
if Australia endeavoured to help herself she would
be driven to “knuckle down.” He guffawed at
the ideaoi opposing the omnipotent Mantchoorian,
and drew fancy yellow pictures of the annihilation
of the nation which dared to insult the innumer-
able race of the junks and stink-pots, and his
sentiment of devotion to British interests made
him regard with horror any movement which
might tend to weaken the “bonds,” regarding
which so much drivel has been drivelled of recent
years. The proposal to hold a conference of the
Australian States, with a view to united action,
he viewed with the same deep-rooted snort of con-
tempt which has been his answer to every proposi-
tion tending to the federation of this continent,
and his attitude generally was that he wanted to
go home and get to bed. This was the Parkes of
a few short weeks ago.
. * *
But the agitation grew and spread, and suddenly
it dawned on the old politician that a great
national movement was in progress, and that
unless he engaged in a demoniac race with the
rising M‘ll wraith, he would lose the chance of
poking as the one man in all Australia who was
equal to the emergency. ' Then a strange spectacle
presented itself. The same Parkes who had just
risen, to all outward appearance whitewashed and
in his right mind, and declared that it would be
madness for a unanimous continent to oppose
itself single-handed to the advancing leper, now
resolved in his own individual person to oppose
him and the law as well. The same Parkes who
had drawn fancy pictures of Australia, unsupported
by the physical force of the empire and devastated
by the Chinese hordes, now strained the quaraiij
tine laws in order to heap a useless and wanton
insult on these looming myriads, arid intimated as
lightly as if he were merely saying he would have
a drink that he didn't care a straw for China or
England, or the Supreme Court of New South
Wales, or the Governor, or anything else. In his
own name he invited half the habitable globe to
come along and be killed, and there, standing up
to public view as a man who hungered to fight
against any odds, for one glorious half-hour he
furnished a spectacle for the gods.
• • •
As a fact, there was no crisis of any kind,
and the burnt-offering of Parkes was not wanted
unless as a mere matter of ornament. The
motion of Brother Samuei. Shin, of the famous
Lime-kiln Club, that “dis’ere Club sympathises
wid Greece in her efforts to cast off de yoke,” was
promptly suppressed by the two pertinent en-
quiries, “ Where am Greece? ’ and, secondly,
“Where am de yoke?” and had Parkes, in like
manner, been asked to produce his crisis, a col-
lapse would have ensued. But the ex-Kiama
(i host has a fondness for theatrical legislation, and
an infantine desire to create emergencies where no
emergencies exist, and then to rise as the one
strong bogus statesman in a panic-stricken com-
munity and pose as the saviour of his country.
At these times the laws are trodden underfoot,
and the people, the Legislature—sometimes even
the Law Courts themselves —rush into a chaos of
folly. When a miserable crank fired at the Duke
of Edinburgh, the Government of which Parkes
was a memlier hurried the infamous Treason-
Felony Act through in one day of blind, childish,
idiotic rage; and the criminal courts put on a
frienzied spurt, and sentenced the offending
lunatic to death almost before it was known what
he had done. Nobody supposed, on that occasion,
that anybody else was about to shoot at the Duke
in question, or that, if anyone had such an inspira-
tion, the Treason-Felony Act would make the
slightest difference in the result; but it was held
to be necessary to do something loud and insane
to meet an unusual case, and had the victim been
injured by a falling brick, an Act would have
been passed with equal promptitude making
it a capital offence to leave bricks loose
up in the air without having somebody
up there to hold them. But Parkes has learnt
nothing by experience, and the excitement of last
week was that old-time panic over again. The
new Chinese Restriction Bill is more hopelessly
unworkable even than the Treason-Felony Act
itself, and vastly more imbecile in detail. Parkes’
lofty scorn of the other colonies led him to ignore
the suggestion of a general conference in which a
national scheme of y-striction mitr'd be drawn up,
and now, unless < other -V‘ B V r . a l la ? l States are
prepared to adopt m/measur- which is hardly to
be expected, New South will simply be
flooded with Asiatics fronrt° ver her . .borders
instead of receiving these Voii om , e , tBlC o ra by
sea, as hitherto. Moreo’ fln( i ie whole plan is
based on the supposition . V our^7 Chinaman
can be identified by the a,p v V 6B ’ 80 as to dis-
tinguish between the “old , unese who have
permission to range all over the colony, and the
“ntw” Chinese, who arete be restricted to five


"cities”—though the scarcity of anything re-
sembling cities in New South Wales is, in itself, a
formidable difficulty in the way of this part of the
programme. Yet the “crisis” which led to this
Useless bit of paper being galloped in hot haste
through the Assembly was nothing larger than
the presence of two or three hundred unarmed
heathens in Sydney Hax-bonr, and the inflated old
man who lost his head in the presence of this
huge “ emergency ” was the same who proposed to
defy Britain and China combined with two-thirds
of Australia itself thrown in.
A Chinaman, viewed merely as a Chinaman, is
possibly not of much account. But the forcible im-
prisonment of a horde of Chinamen on the mere
dictum of Parses means the assertion of a power
by which Australians themselves may any day be
deprived of their liberty in like manner, and
consequently tlm maniacal race between Parses
and the statutes became a matter of public in-
terest. The question to be decided was whether
the Supreme Court could enforce the law before it
was abolished or whether Parses could abolish
the law before the Supreme Court could get
into motion. About the law itself there was
never any question. The plea that the China
man should be excluded because he is an “ alien ”
would apply equally to Germans, Frenchmen,
Russians, or Americans, and while these are ad-
mitted tlie Chinaman cannot be expelled on such
a ground. He must be dismissed —not on the
empty pretence that he is a foreigner, but for the
reason that he is a national calamity, and if he is
not to be expelled but merely restricted, he
must be similarly restricted throughout all Aus-
tralia- not merely hampered in the sea-ports
of one State that he may pour in over her
landward frontiers. If New South Wale?, under
Parkes’ direction, insists on acting apart from the
other colonies, the only measure which will avail
is one of total expulsion, so that the mere presence
of a yellow face will be sufficient to set the law in
motion. It is impossible to sort out Chinaman
from Chinaman, and only headlong panic could
have allowed so hopeless an absurdity to escape
notice. The whole miserable j >roceeding is a ter-
rified attempt to meet, by a high-handed breach
of law, and by an ill-considered measure of
bungling incapacity, a danger which has been ig
nored for 30 .years, and which can be remedied for
ever, in the ordinary course of legislation, in a
month. But the Rip Van Winkles who have
slumbered for a generation have suddenly
awakened, and threaten to wreck the whole political
system of New South Wales in their efforts to ac-
complish in 24 hours the neglected duties of three
decades.
• *
For the present, however, the crisis which
Parkes built seems to be less acute. The loyal
Parkes, who held that Australia must “ knuckle
down,” and the fire-eating, boiling-water-drinking
Parkes, who cared nothing for England or China
or the Supreme Court or anything else, have both
practically backed out. But the manner of back-
ing-out was sulky and ungracious. A worried and
badgered police official was in charge of the
prisoners afloat in Sydney Harbour. The Supreme
Court, which could put him in prison if he dis-
obeyed its orders, commanded him to release cer-
tain of them ; Parkes, who could sack him if he
disobeyed his orders, bade him keep them in cus-
tody ; and when in his perplexity and misery he
appealed to the Premier for instructions he was
informed that the only instructions were those
already in force. Thus the unhappy boss-con-
stable was left to choose between two im-
perious masters. The whole burden of the
Chinese question, with it i possibilities of war
and invasion and revolution, was placed on
his shoulders ; he stood without any extra salary
as the arbiter of nations and the prop of a be-
wildered continent, while the thunderous spates
man who had so far supported him folded him-
self up and silently stole away. One man at a
small sum per week was left to hold back a con-
flicting nation, and when the wear and tear of the
position become unendurable he gently stood
aside and allowed the world to drop. Happily it
fell soft. Lo' Pak and his colleagues glided
ashore with their worldly goods tied up in paper,
and, as they vanished down various side streets
and lost their way in the wondrous intricacies of
the white man’s city, the Chinese problem re-
lapsed into temporary quietude. The Chinaman
must go, but for the moment it has been found
necessary to stand as : de and let him come.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“ Art in Australia.”
A Sydney daily paper published the other day a
stupid piece of gush about the Earl of Buckingham-
shire and his travelling picture circus, and dilated
on the golden future the Australias held out to the'
journeyman British artist, and this piece of
toadyism to English prejudice and esthetic
narrowness appeared under the caption of “Art
in Australia.” Art in Jericho ! Art in Egypt! !
Art in Timbuctoo !!! Art anywhere and every-
where from the Land of Laputa to the confines of
Tophet, if you like, but what in the name of all
that is patriotic has the semi-dilettante, semi-
speculative pilgrimage of the Earl of Buckingham-
shire to do with “ Art in Australia ?” This noble
spoiler of canvas has a gallery in which almost any
titled artistic duffer can hang his wretched daubs,
and the miserable collection is supplemented, on the
grand-old-grovel-to-rank principle, by a few pictures
by known artists—said pictures not being their
best efforts by a long way. These are sent to a more
likely market, and the Grosvenor Gallery receives
only the wipings of their brushes and the ultimate
residuals of their paint-pots. Notwithstanding the
severe frost that met his noble efforts to foist work
rejected in England on to the people of Australia
as At at Lloyds’, the Earl “spoke in the highest
terms of the reception accorded him, which,” says
the print cited, “ appears to have been cordial and
unstinting,” Thereat the needy among the
camel’s-hair brotherhood rejoiced greatly
“This was good and welcome news to his audienoe,
■composed mostly of working English painters, who thus
Jearnt that their pictures are popular, and that there is a
■ohance of finding fresh patrons beyond the seas. In no
branch of home production have times been harder than
in art, and any new outlet for canvases will be very
thankfully accepted. It was pleasant, too, to hear that
of all pictorial subjects those which please our cousins
best are reproductions Of English scenery and English life
—anything, in fact, that serves to revive associations
with the old home.”
Whenever a want is evinced by Australia for
anything, the English shoddy ring is always ready
to supply it. As soon as the R.C. denomination
in the colonies appeared wealthy enough to sup-
port a Prince of the Church, the Pope sent them a
Cardinal with an expensive following of priests,
friars, and teachers. New "South Wales rejoices
in being “ bossed ” by a real, live Baron. The
Church of England denomination is about to have
an Australian archbishop. Even the alleged
democrat, Graham Berry, is dissatisfied with the
colonial specimens of Australian armour handed
down from antiquity -viz., that worn by the
bold border-baron, Ned-Kelly, in his forays on
the banks of country-towns--and the ex-hero of
Black Wednesday is collecting English specimens
of armour worn by the Briti- h bushrangers of the
past. Colonial markets are glutted with shoddy
goods, and now that some few wealthy Aus-
tralians are beginning to show a desire for
ffisthetic culture, the pictorial spawn of Grosve'r.or
Gallery is being furbished up and re-varnished for
the Australian ait-market. It takes years—we
might say centuries —for a young country to
develope a taste of this kind. Literature and art
wait on cultured leisure, and are in the way of
business amid the rush and hurry of pioneer life
The artists and literary men who represent the
spirit and national aspirations of their country
have then to labour years after that taste has been
born, to fashion it and mould it into something
racy of the soil and distinctive of the people.
Their lot is a hard and bitter one, and the struggle
i nds too often in despair. The wealthy man who
wants to decorate his walls with pictures is almost
invariably ignorant of their value and mean-
ing. He wants pictures, and if he can get
English pictures he will take the veriest trash
in preference to genuine works of merit simply
because the trash may be English trash, and the
genuine works of merit Australian works of
merit. He is prejudiced in favour of all things
English, and he does not know enough to have an
opinion of his own about the matter. A purple
monkey climbing on a yellow stick would be to the
Brumtnagen toy-maker a superior work of art, if
carven by an English operative in a distant Eng-
lish town, to the loftiest conception of Pbaxitiles,
or the sublimest artistic execution of Phidias —
had these gentlemen been Australians and not
Greeks. W hile the English artists of the Gros-
venor shoddy gallery are fattening on a prejudice,
genuine artists who have pitched their tents in
our midst are starving for want of customers. A
splendid painter is compelled, from time to
time, to desert a thankless hole like Sydney
for a miserable inland centre, to superin-
tend the art-efforts of a giggling drawing class.
If we are to be a great people, we must develope
a national sentiment. We must embody that
national sentiment in literature and art. We
must stay at home and grow, as Emerson says,
and not trot about Europe drivelling over what
we cannot understand. The curse of English
literature was long the artificialism imported from
France. France for years sat like a nightmare on
the literary development of Germany. French
literature again was crushed and stifled by tastes
proper to Rome and Greece, but foreign and false
to the Gallic temperament. In some things—and
we say this with no narrowness—we have nothing
to learn from England, from Europe, from
America. All our vigour must be our own. We
must work out our own salvation. Sydney
Smith once sneered at America much as the nar-
row Tory now sneers at the “ blasted kaw’oaies.”
He asked who bought American blankets, who
read American books ? and a vengeful Time has
answered the question by imposing on an alter-
nately weeping and laughing Europe the poetry
of Longfellow, Poe, Lowell, and Whittlei: ;
the prose of Hawthorne, Prescott, Irving, and
James ; the humour of Bret Haute and
Mare Twain. In art, as in commerce, we must
encourage a United Australia with protection
against the world.
+
Freetrade Prosperity.
We read the other day that the Central Queens-
land Meat Company had contracted to deliver
100,000 hind-quarters of frozen beef in London
within two years from September next; that N.Z.
mutton, imported into England, is reputed to be
superior to English mutton, and that purchasers
were agitating for the branding of the meat so aw
to avoid being deceived. This latter piece of i n-
formation reads curiously to us, for when on
a visit to England only a few years ago,
we found that N.Z. mutton was popularly de-
scribed as “servants’ mutton,” and it was
generally understood among the pampered menials
in the halls of the great that no servant with any
self-respect would condescend to eat such stuff.
In another quarter, we read that Queen Victori a
has been tasting and approving of 'Australian
wines, a number of the growers where of intend ex-
hibiting at the Glasgow Exhibition ; and that Aus-
tralian apples, oranges, leather, kangaroo-hides, and
rabbit-skins are monopolising the affections of
St. George and the Dragon, to the exclusion of
products from other nations. And Australians,
are too apt to chuckle unduly over what looked
at . from another point of view—is a genuine
evil. In the matter of a beef-supply the
country best adapted for the rearing of cattle
consists of leagues upon leagues of unsettled and
uncultivated pasture, requiring very little labour
at an absolutely nominal wage. The wool and
fi’ozen-mutton industries are similarly worked.
Plenty of land at an absurdly low rental, a few
hands at from 15s. to £1 per week, and both wool
and mutton are produced in great quantities.
The only really considerable expenses are incurred
at shearing-time and in shipment. The result is a
fortune, which the retired Australian squatter or
meat-speculator takes to Europe to spend in
giving entertainments to uppercrusts who giggle
in their sleeves at both him and his country.
Again, fancy the condition of a nation whose
prosperity hangs upon the fluctuations of the
foreign and far-distant market, where a half-
penny rise in the price of wool makes or mars a
whole community ! What are the prospects of a
trade that depends upon a regal smile or a ducal
nod of approval ? Upon what sort of a basis rests
the commerce of a people dependent on the
caprices of fashion in a foreign land where the
market is rigged and contested by hundreds of
rivals ? Yet this is freetrade prosperity ! Even a
rise in the price of rabbit skins, the covering
of our national vermin, brings warmth and
comfort to the Freetrade heart 1 Protection would
give us a local market for our food-stuff?. Pro-
tection would divert the profits from the pockets
of the squatter into those of the people. We
should hold our own progress in our own hands and
not be compelled to give up the food of our
coqntry in exchange for' the costly shoddy of
Europe, and the profits of our trade would not be
spent in foreign capitals to gild fat absentees from
the land where their wealth was accumulated.
Protection would insure a division of those profits
between manufacturers and workmen, the dis-
semination of wealth throughout the community,
and a retention of the wealth of a country within
the country’s boundaries. It would insure also
better wages to the labour now employed in the
production of raw material. Other avenues would
be opened to the operation of labour, and the un-
employed “bummer” of the past would dis-
appear. The cheaply-produced meat and wool
of Australia are useful only to a section
of Australians; these branches of trade tend
to conserve wealth in the hands of the few
who are interested in keeping up an army of
“unemployed” because such a state of things
cheapens labour. As the “few” look- across the
water for a market they are indifferent to the
prosperity of the country as a whole, and are
anxious only to make hay while the Austral sun
shines and then to waste the substance of the
continent in a foreign ciime.
4,
Government Tanks.
Dear Bulletin, —Recently there has been a deal
of talk as to why the (Government tanks did not
pay, and I would like to draw the attention, not
only of the public at large, but also of the (Govern-
ment officials, to the following : —Years ago, prior
to their being any tanks provided by (Government
for watering purposes, the squatters generally
were continually crying out, owing to travelling
stock obtaining water from tanks and dams on
their runs, and to remedy this, tanks were at once
sunk, and a caretaker placed in charge. A
nominal sum was charged, and the squatter now
saw his opportunity for making money in good
seasons, especially where he had a tank on a stock
route, by charging the same amount from drovers
as that claimed by (Government. Now, the tank
1 am in charge of _ happens to be .10 miles from
town, whereas a private tank of a squatter is only
eight, consequently the majority of stock
water at the latter, and the fees are paid over
to a boundary-rider who lives in the vicinity, and,
as a matter of course, the drover passes the tank
which was put down by (Government purely for
the purpose of supplying travelling stock with
water. This goes to prove that the money re-
ceived by the squatter should have been paid to
the caretaker of the (Government tank. My rea-
sons for writing on this subject are simply to show
that some of the squatters are very unreasonable,
as the money they receive from drovers is used by
them for paying rent, &c., consequently the
(Government tank does not pay, and the squatter
is materially benefited. If this is continued,
(Government tanks never will pay, and men who,
through perseverance and sobriety, have obtained
the position of caretakers, will be thrown out of
employment. _ Surely something could be done to
remedy this, evil, and thus enable Government to
obtain moneys from drovers by compelling them to
water at the tanks provided for them, especially
when we know that at one time squatters were con-
tinually crying put against water being taken from
their tanks or dams. Again, many squatters in
this section of the country are at the present
moment employing hundreds of Chinese at ring-
barking and scrubbing, thereby debarring colonials
and Europeans from getting employment, and
this causes a large number of men to be travelling
from station to station in quest of work. Surely
the squatter ought to he satisfied with His Chinese
workmen, and not try to throw caretakers of
( Government tanks out of work by watering stock
on his run, and thus causing the Government
tanks to be a less to the public generally.—Ob-
server.
[The Government of New South Wales is a freetrade
Government, hence it cannot object upon any public
grounds to the operation of the principle of free com-
petition. -El). BULLETIN. |
• ♦
When two friends and brethren rise and hurl
directly contradictory statements at a common
enemy it generally ensues that the opponent stands
by and laughs an irritating laugh. The other day,
Mr. W. W. Colltns, unbeliever, delivered a lec-
ture in Sydney on the Law of Population, in the
course of which he alluded to the recent prosecu-
tion of a bookseller for selling a work which he
said was only philosophical, though the authorities
chose to regard it as obscene; and heaped derision
on the system by which Constable H’X, in the in-
tervals of devouring pie, leering at the cool?, and
flopping up public structures with his generous
back, appoints himself a court of appeal in
matters of scientific research. He urged that the
ability jx> bask against four-storey buildings,
lamp .posts, and vegetable-carts was not the best
test of literary ability; and then he pointed to
the Social Purity Society -as the organisation
which had dragged the usually languid officer IPX
from the contemplation of food, and urged him on
in his new path of usefulness. This accusation
brought the Rev. A. Turnbull on to his feet, and
in his capacity as one of the heads of the Social
Purity aggregation—
“ He told them that the Social Purity Society had
nothing to do with the prosecution.”
This statement stood forth as an unvarnished fact
without any trimmings, and things were looking
very satisfactory, when an interfering man named
Ardill, in his capacity as Secretary of the
Society, rose, and gave his colleague away in one
lamentable paragraph ; -
“When the case was remanded the Social Purity
Society came forward, and interfered. He admitted that
h.e had instructed the counsel in the second prosecution.
Just here the lecturer asked “who was telling the
truth ?” and nobody seemed to know. At present
it appears that the Society is in a disgustingly
tight place, and some one connected with it will
have to. patch the tabernacle of his reputation
with the kerosene-tin of faith and the old hat of
charity. The moral is that the S.P.S. should only
send one contradictory office-bearer along next
time it imagines that an obscene lecture is in
gress. Tivo Social Purits are bound to giye each
other away.
*
Mr. Jamks Service, in a carefully-trimmed
speech for Imperial Federation, told the free and
enlightened electors of the Melbourne Province
that the traditions of the old country (from
whence he preferred to emigrate) sounded sweet
and pleasant in the ear of bis memory. If Jaivjhs
is to be taken at his word lie must have a strange
ear for music. As a representative Australian
“ patriot ” he should be chiefly concerned with
those traditions relating to the British settle-
ment of' this country. Does he find the his-
tory of Botany Bay, echoing the clank of
convicts’ chains, and the screams of half-naked
wretches at the triangles sweet and pleasant ? or
does he, pursuing those dear old traditions in
a westward direction, love to let his memory’s ear
catch the blissful booming of American cannon,
and tlie triumphant shouts of July 4th, .1770?
Finally, does the super-"loyal” wine-merchant
know anything about those traditions except the
garbled versions he has picked up from printed
reports of Tory orations in the Houses of Parlia-
ment, and has. he forgotten that his real old
country —Scotland—was in a chronic state of war
with England for a. few centuries? Now then,
•Tames !
About two .months ago the English mili-
tary department issued a large document printed
all over and filled in here and there in writing,
also signed and guaranteed correct by a number of
prominent strategiscs and initialled by the leading
tacticians of the empire, to the effect that a pane
of glass, valued at fid., having been broken in a
drill-shed, the same was to be paid in equal pro-
portions by the 12 companies of Engineers who
were stationed in the barracks —about 9GO men in
all. And yet the British army does not command
the respect of Continental nations and is said to
be inefficient and behind the age.
The Brickbat.
[Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington.]
A little township close to Lismore (N.S. W.)
was pervaded last month by a stranger who was
suffering from optical deceptions induced by
ardent contemplation of the beer-pot. He tra-
velled round chiefly on all-fours and was fast
becoming a recognised institution, until one cold
night he swarnied up to the roof of the telegraph
office and sat cursing on the wires. Then he got
into the premises and, shaking the undressed
operator out of bed, urged hint to send an imffie-
diate message to Heaven, under pain of having
his hair torn off. The terrified official consented
and hung on like death to a wire which connected
with the police-office, while the visitor poured
cold water affably down his back and prodded
him with a walking-stick ; and by the time the
solitary functionary of the peace arrived and
judiciously surrounded the building the miserable
servant of an insolvent Government and a fading
] loliticalsystem was frozen stiff. Standing outside
in the cold the rural policeman contemplated the
scene, and the way his knees came apart and then
smote each other with ceaseless regularity four
times a minute was,entirely owing to the weather.
Through the window he saw a human form built
chiefly of rags taking running kicks at the appa-
ratus and occasionally flicking the operator with
the office towel, while the paralysed (Government
servant was standing up in a corner and croaking
“Come into the garden, Maud,” under an im-
pression that music was a valuable agent in sooth-
ing the irresponsible drunk. There was a long and
monotonous pause about this time, in the course
of which the officer cleared his throat several
times with a view to saying something, and in-
wardly repeated the prayer for those in danger on
the sea. Finally he remarked in quavering ac-
cents, “ Come out o’ that,” and then hid himself
in the next street pending the v olcanic convulsion
which might ensue. A battered helmet, a black
eye, and a large squashed black-beetle which were
found in the neighbourhood next day have since
inspired an idea that he did not get away far
enough, or else that in a moment of suicidal de-
rangement he came back and launched himself
into the abyss, but as the operator lapsed into un-
consciousness about this time his evidence is not
available. The railings in front of the telegraph de-
partment were mostly gone also, and it is presumed
that either the policeman rushed through them in
his frantic desire to get in, or that the visitor
carried them with him as he bounded out; and
several footmarks are visible on the constable’s
ample person. Most of these are on the hinder
part of him, which suggests that he had been
taken at an unfair advantage while returning
backwards to the scene of action. His sudden
departure at the outset of the proceedings was, of
course, not necessarily due to fear, but was pro-
bably based on an impression that somebody was
engaged in crime in the adjacent thoroughfare,
and the whole district trembles to think what
might have happened to that man if he had
been there. Futhermore, the fact that he
did not wait to gather up his hat is not
sufficient evidence that he was in a hurry to
get away, but is probably the result of that
abstraction to which all great minds are subject,
and which makes them too late for trains and
other things of various degrees of importance.
We publish these statements in order to combat
the vulgar local superstition that the officer was
licked. His opponent has not since been heard of,
and a debased country Press suggests that he left,
whereas that charity which thinketh no evil sug-
gests rather that he was annihilated and ground to
dust and scattered over the face of the earth and
cast to the four winds of Pleaven. Moreover, it
is unjust to hit a man who is in bed. When the
policeman has inflated again in these places where
lie was tramped flat, we are confident that he will
arise and confound his traducers, and in the
meantime we ask the public to suspend their
judgment on a man who still bears the footprints
of misfortune on his bosom, or rather on the place
where his bosom would be if he were reversed so
that he could eat with the back of his head.
In the back parts of New Zealand the face
of nature stands up on end, and the land is strewn
with deserted townships, the inhabitants of which
got too near the edge and were dashed to pieces in
the abysses beneath, while their heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns fell off in their vain
efforts to climb up with ropes and harpoons and
realise on the property, Man, in these wild regions,
requires to sand his hands in order to get a grip on
the productions of an overruling Providence, and
when he does get hold of them it is two to one
against him being able to hang on. Here and
there an enterprising generation has fastened ropes
to prominent features of scenery or has cut
steps in the visible evidences of the Creator,
and thus maintains a precarious mortgage on
the earth's crust; but the country is not
'suited to the effeminate dwellers in cities,
and when a stray sample of that forlorn race
wanders by chance into these solitudes he generally
let’s go in a day or two and rebounds violently
int > the regions of modern civilisation. The New
Zealander of the mountains hangs on to the
ordinary circumstances of existence with both
hands, and grasps passing events and great poli-
tical questions with his feet, yet, despite these
disadvantages, he copes successfully with huge
social problems and grapples with difficulties
which would make many a man quail on level
ground. Not long since, for instance, the school
committee which looked after the educational
interests of an acute slope adjacent to Lake Waka-
tipu suffered a bereavement, the local butcher, whq
was an active member of the organisation, having
fallen out of the tree of life ; and when the struggle
between the storekeeper and the publican for the
vacant place reached a stage of fiendish ferocity,
the local paper rose and said
“ If a larger amount of intelligent care were more
generally exercised to secure all the talent and ability
available for the committees they would become a stu-
pendous influence for the promotion and dissemination of
national integrity, and by comparing in conference the
results and consequences of their ultimate experience, as
shown) in the light of after events, with the working of the
Act, would be of valuable assistance in smoothing away < r
eliminating the rugosities inseparable from a new' system,
and in promoting and expanding the diffusion of en-
lightenment throughout the land.”
This germ of thought didn’t commit the paper to
anything—the publican was elected right off—but
in future years the journalist will look back upon
it with pride, and remember how he sassed the
debasing tendencie s of tlie age, and brought down
the Archimedean lever with a whop upon igno-
rance and the dead butcher.
A “ powerful syndicate ” is about to start
a Melbourne evening paper which will knock out
the local Herald— or perish in the attempt—
which latter they will probably do, unless they
happen to be much more powerful in journalistic
experience than the ordinary syndicate of wl ich
we wot.


History of Botany Bay.
Every now and then in those days there
would be a sound of martial music and a
gleam of scarlet coats along the green lanes
of rural England, and the word would pass
round among the yokels that a party was out
recruiting soldiers for the King. Lusty
rustics listened agape while the glib ser-
geant told his story, and their hands closed
on the bright shilling, and they found the
cockade stuck on their hats before they
realised that they had enlisted. Then the
fife shrieked a farewell and the scarlet coats
flashed for a mordent in the sun, and in a
few moments the green landscape closed on
the recruit, who left village and friends
behind him to follow the drum. Some of
these followed it to Botany Bay, where they
shared the barbarities of the cofivict system.
* * *
The story of Sudds and Thompson is one
of those that have passed into circulation in
connection with the barbarities of which the
old torVn of Sydney was the scene. From
what has gone before the reader will have
gathered that atrocities and cruelties were of
common Occurrence ; and so much was this
really the case that incidents of the kind
wete regarded in their day as being of so
commonplace a character as to be unworthy
of special notice or record. It is by an ac-
cident that We get accounts from time to
time, principally from the recollections of
old residents, of events and occurrences
that might well make the blood of the
reader of our dismal story curdle with hor-
ror, but which the good people of the past
regarded as things of every day. If we are
told sometimes that our penal laws, and our
eagerness to hang and flog offenders at the
present time, show a state of civilisation be-
hind the world’s average, our only excuse is
that we have not yet got away from the past
and its barbarism ; and so long as we con-
tinue to be ruled by the men of the past
and those who have inherited their tradi-
tions, we never shall.
• * *
Yet sometimes we find a thrilling incident
of peculiar atrocity standing out from the
sanguinary background of our early history
like the case of Sudds and Thompson. And
such a case serves to fill out the picture the
imagination has already coloured from our
early records, while giving it something
definite and concrete to go upon. There are
many stories of unhappy wretches condemned
to death for some petty offences, and dragged
in procession through the streets of Sydney,
with their coffins beside them in a cart. By
a refinement of cruelty they were made to
taste all the horrors of death and burial
before the last brutal exhibition was given
on Gallows Hill. Horrid tales still stand,
too, of men who died under the lash, cursing
their tyrants and their own hopeless lot.
But these, we repeat, were common —so
common as to become mere generalisations.
What we have now to tell is a tale of only
sixty years ago ; let it stand as a comment
on what has gone before.
Sudds and Thompson were two private
soldiers in the regiment then stationed in
New South Wales. Sudds was a Gloucester-
shire rustic, who had left a wife and child
in rural England behind him, when he en-
listed like the other louts of those days.
The other had nothing special about his
previous history. They came with their
regiment to New South Wales. In those
days the merry rule of the New South
Wales Corps was long since over. Under
the long-service army regulations oi the
period the soldier’s term of service left
little of a life-time to spare between youth
and age. The contrast between the lot of
the soldier and that of the Emancipist was
a marked one. The convict who had passed
through the Moloch-sacrifice, and whose
term of five, seven, or ten years’ service
had been manumitted or served, might
afterwards use the advantages the colony
offered and acquire a fortune, as many
actually did. Thompson noted this, and he
soon made Sudds aware of the injustice of
serving in the ranks until old age came on,
while they saw the convicts they guarded
dropping their chains and gathering wealth
and comfort. Tempted by the prospect of
domestic enjoyment and by the arguments
of his companion, he decided that a con-
vict’s sentence and treatment made a fail-
price to pay for the prospect of even an
Emancipist’s liberty. The two soldiers then
deliberately walked into a shop in Sydney,
and stole a piece of cloth in such an open
manner as to invite instant arrest. They
quickly cut the cloth into two parts, so that?
each might be equally guilty. They were
tried, and, of course, convicted ; and sen-
tenced to seven years’ transportation to one
of the penal settlements.
* • •
■ Here the representative of Majesty
came upon the scene. Governor Darling
thad no such mawkish scruples about inter-
fering with the course of “ justice ” as seems
Ito accompany even the exercise of the pre-
rogative of mercy in these days. He set
aside the sentence of the Court, and took the
offenders out of the hands of the civil power.
He altered the sentence to one of servitude
in irons for the same period on the public
roads of the colony—then to be returned to
service in their regiment. But he did not
stop here. This gross and most unjustifiable
interference with the processes of law after
sentence had been formally passed—-this re-
ramdamnathm of cnlnriti. Ur the aame_
offence—was not vindictive or cruel enough
to gratify Governor Darling’s diabolical in-
genuity. This ruffian Governor went a step
further, and added a pendant of such wanton
brutality as may well make the reader mar-
vel at such examples of man’s inhumanity to
man as those of which the old town of Syd-
ney has been the scene. He ordered the
prisoners to be brought out upon the bar-
rack-square—now Wynyard-square, Sydney
—and there, in the presence 6f their late
companions, td be stripped of their uniforms
and dressed in the yellow convict garb.
They were then to be loaded with irons,
joined front the ancles to a spiked iron
collar round their necks by a heavy chain.
These spiked collars were a special device of
the Governor. They were, finally, to be
drummed out of the regiment, the “Rogues’
March ” being played after them with fife
and drum as they left the scene of their de-
gradation—a miserable spectacle for the
delight of fiends and men.
# * *
This unspeakable sentence was carried
out to the letter—or rather, it would have
been so carried out had Nature been as piti-
less as this criminal Governor. “ The irons,”
said Thompson on examination by the
Colonial Secretary and others, five months
afterwards, “ consisted of a collar which
went round each of our necks, and chains
were fastened to the collar on eacli side of
the shoulder, and reached from thence to
the basil* Which was placed three inches
from each ankle. There was a piece of iron
which projected from the collar before and
behind, about eight inches at each place.
The projecting irons would not allow me to
stretch myself at full length on my back. I
could sleep on my back by. contracting my
legs. I could not lie at full length on either
side without contracting my legs. I could
not stand upright with the irons on. The
COVERNOR DARLING'S INVENTION.
basil of the irons would not slip up my legs,
and the chains were too short to enable me
to stand upright. I was never measured for
the irons, and Sudds’ collar was too small
for his neck, and the basils for his legs,
which were swollen.” The victims of the
old days wore many. Their graves yawn
black and silent. This is a voice out from
the depths.
* * *
Thus cruelly manacled, these unhappy
wretches were exposed in the torrid heat of
the barrack-yard while this capricious out-
rage was perpetrated ; and then marched
back to the gaol to the sound of pipe and
tabor like figures in some modern Danse
Macabre. Sudds had been ill, and was
actually taken out of the hospital to partici-
pate in this grisly exhibition. Let Thomp-
son go on with his story. “On our return,”
he says, simply, “Sudds sat down with his
back to the wall, saying that he was very ill,
and wished to go to the hospital again ; but
he did not go to the hospital till next
morning. The basils of the irons cut his legs
during the time we were coming from the
barracks to the jail; it was owing to the
sharpness of the basil and the weight of it
that we were cut.” During the horrible
night that followed Sudds became worse ;
his fellow-sufferer begged a candle, and gave
him some tea that he had bought. ‘‘ I then
asked Sudds if he had any friends to whom
he would wish to write. He said he had a
wife and child in Gloucestershire, and begged
that, if he did not get better by the next
night, I would read some pious book to him,
adding that ‘ they had put him in them irons
until they had killed him.’ ” He lived long
enough to be sent to the Gaol Hospital next
morning, and “in talking to him of his
disgrace,” says the gaol surgeon, “he de-
clared he would never work in irons, and
wished himself out of the world.” He was
removed to the General Hospital two days
later, where he died within twenty-four hours.
Thompson merely became insane.
* • »
It is not difficult for the most unsympa-
thetic reader to put himself in imagination
in this poor soldier’s place—to see his wife
and child in Gloucestershire—to feel all his
horror at the awakening from that affecting
little dream of domestic happiness which
was to have been so unselfishly purchased—
with the public disgrace, the iron fetters,
and the spiked collar which he owed to the
ingenuity of the Governor —and the - pathetic
request for “a pious book” that might re-
mind the wretch of the mercy that men
denied this misguided rustic who was thus
taken from the hospital to be disgraced, and
die. God knows how many unfortunates
had their lives crushed out in silence under
the galling tyranny of those early days, but
this is at least a solitary instance where the
victim finds feeble voice, though it be but
the bleat of the calf under the butcher’s
knife. There is nO element wanting Of
Studied cruelty and ingenious deviltry
to make this instance of old colonial
ways stand prominently out against the
background of unrecorded horror. There
are relics of feudal savagery preserved in
the Tower Of London, known as the
“ Scavenger’s Daughter,” “ Little Ease,”
and other ingenious appellations, which
might rival these devices of torture of
Governor Darling’s invention. But enough
of this.
• * *
What did his Excellency the Governor 1
“ However much the event is to be re-
gretted,” wrote he mincingly to Earl
Bathurst, on the subject of Sudds’ death,
“ it cannot be imputed to severity ; none
was practised or intended. . * . With
respect to the chains, which are de-
signated as instruments of torture, it
will be sufficient to state that they
weigh only 131 b. 12oz. ; and, though
made with a view of producing an effect on
those who were to witness the ceremony ”
his Excellency speaks here with the con-
scious but modest pride
of an artist in his
work—-“the extreme
lightness of their con-
struction prevented
their being injurious in
any respect to the indi-
vidual.” No callosity
of heartless words
could better paint the
character of the man,
and the portrait is not
weakened by the fact
that this statement of
the criminal Governor
covers a hopeless lie.
The chains of Sudds
weighed 141 b. 6oz. The
usual road-gang irons
weighed from 61b. to
91b., and those brought
out from England on
prison-ships weighed
from 3|lbs. to 41bs.
only. Nothing is said
in. the reply about the
length of the chains,
the effect of the spiked
collars, and the basils
that cut the flesh of
the suffering wretches
who wore them. The
author of the outrage
endeavoured to conceal
his crime under a
lie. A few years ago
these spiked iron col-
lars were kept in the
office of the Colonial
Secretary in Sydney, and possibly these
disgraceful historical relics may be preserved
there still.
* • *
A whirl of indignation went up when the
facts of this outrage were made public. For
the first time the popular sentiment had a
chance to express itself. Wentworth and
Wardell took up the matter in the Australian.
Wentworth himself published a scorching
pamphlet on the subject, entitled “ The Im-
peachment,” in which he gallantly declared
his intention to follow Governor Darling to
the foot of the gallows for his _ crime.
Another paper had in the meantime been
started in 1826, by Mr. Edward Smith
Hill —the Monitor. The official paper, the
Gazette, defended the outrage; but the
public at large and the two popular journals
pursued its author with execrations. Two
results followed. (sne of these was an
enquiry several years later by the English
authorities into the case of Sudds and
Thompson, and the other was the conflict
between the newspapers and Governor
Darling, which resulted eventually in the
recognition to a certain extent, however
limited, of the freedom of the Press.
* * *
The action taken by the public journals
struck the Governor home. The plain
truths, so unsparingly repeated, were not
palatable to his Excellency. A weapon was
therefore devised to crush the opposition,
quite worthy of the system and of the time,
and one which we have seen revived in our
day. The vigorous and outspoken com-
ments by Dr. Wardell on the late disgrace-
ful event, were the first to penetrate the
official armour, and that gentleman was
promptly prosecuted for criminal libel by
the Governor, for “an attempt to bring
the King’s representative into hatred
and contempt.” It might have been unsafe
to have founded a defence on the plea that
the accused had been anticipated by the
Governor himself in this matter. But,
though every effort was strained to secure
tained began to have its good effect. The jury
—no longer a merely official one —disagreed
on December 22, 1827, and Dr. W ardell
was discharged on the understanding that
this infamous prosecution would be aban-
doned. This action was founded on what
were known as the “Gagging Acts” of
Governor Darling, of which we will have
more to say presently.
» * *
Although the proceedings against Wardell
fell through other charges were more suc-
cessful. Mr. Hayes, who had become the
editor of the Australian, was convicted, in
April, 1829, of libelling the Governor in
connection with the Sudds raise, and was
fined £lOO and imprisoned for six months.
Hill, the editor of the Monitor, who had
also written in a public-spirited and out-
spoken manner on the same subject, was
sentenced to twelve months’ imprisofiment
in September of the same year. Quite an
avalanche of libel-writs descended on this
man’s drooping head. In December follow-
ing he was convicted again of an old libel on
the Governor, which was revived to form the
ground of this charge ; two days later he was
convicted of libels on James Laidley, Deputy
Commissary-General, and on F. A. Healy,
Convict Superintendent; and on the day
following, of libel on Alexander Macleay,
Colonial Secretary. This rapid record shows
the rate at which public opinion was form-
ing, and the right and custom of public dis-
cussion and the expression of popular
opinion, developing. It demonstrated at the
same time the urgent necessity that existed
for the letting in of light on the official pro-
cedure of the colony.
* * *
It was not till five years after the Sudds
tragedy that its author left Sydney, but that
event was not forgotten. He left amid the
execrations of the populace. On his arrival
in England, the enquiry into the case was
commenced after an even longer delay
than that into the Bligh affair. Nearly
two years after the crime was committed —
in 1835 —a Committee of the House of Com-
mons met to review the circumstances under
which it occurred. Darling was befriended
by the party in power. The propertied
classes in the colony were his friends to a
man, as his rule had favoured their party
and repressed their opponents. Facts were
distorted, and black indictments toned down.
One victim was dead, indeed, and the other
had been temporarily insane. But the Pure
Merinos had got over greater difficulties
than these. A dead man or a madman
more or less made little difference in Botany
Bay in those days. The result of the enquiry
was a foregone conclusion from the first.
The accused was. acquitted. As a special
mark of royal favour and of the influence of
his friends in the Ministry, he was knighted
immediately after for his chivalry by the
King. Had Governor Darling been well and
truly tried before a fearless jury of his coun-
trymen for his atrocious crime, he would
assuredly have been hanged by the neck.
The Fantail’s Song.
It is wired that “the barque Jessie from
Bateman’s Bay has gone ashore at Abraham’s
Bosom.” Probably, most of us have been wrecked
on Abraham’s bosom —Uncle Abraham’s.
Says a Tasmanian paper :—“ For ‘ burglar
meeting ’ in the heading of the article in our last
issue relating to the proceedings of the Town
Council, read ‘regular meeting’.” In someplace*
we know of there would be no difference.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Ho, mates ! I’m bound to laugh outright
At answers from a fantail bright,
As on a bough he sat;
In wondrous glee he veered about,
His little dark eyes peering out,
And muttered, “ Chitter, chat!”
My thoughts I soon began to time,
And sing them in a funny rhyme
To suit his answers pat,
Or else his answers suited me,
For wit and sense combined had h«
In lively chitter, chat.
Say, birdie, is it chance or fate
That we are both without a mate—
Tell me why or what ?
Is’t fear that keeps us single both ?
To tell my mind, good fa.th, I’m loath ;
He answered, “Chitter, chat.”
“ Chitter, chat,” I laughing said,
Only makes us seek a maid,
We ne’er grow tired of that;
But tell me what first raises strife
’Twixt a husband and a wife—
He giggled, “ Chitter, chat.”
See, I said, yon laughing girls
Flaunt their beauties, shake their curls
O'er subjects stale and flat;
What occupies that fluttering crowd ?
He fann’d himself and tittered loud,
Endless “ Chitter, chat.”
Behold yon knot of larrikins
Leering in malicious grins
At passing dress or hat;
Worthless type of human kind,
What employs each vicious mind?—
Insulting “Chitter, chat.”
We see full many a saucy queen
With outside trim and smock unclean,
0 ! say what causes that ?
Or dames assembled round yon door
The idle scandal potion pour ?
He cackled, “Chitter, chat.”
In council what are members doing,
Advancing man or hatching ruin,
Tell me only that—
He raised his tail a smile to hide,
Then winked his eye and laughing cried,
“ Chatter, chatter, chat.”
Crow’s Nest, Queensland.
MENO.


I?'RTiiPirTT?Q oan be effectually eradicated by
fuJjUIIUJIO the use of Olbmbnts’ Frhcklbbanh.
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clbmbnts’, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W, stamps or
P. 0,0. Sold by Washington SoijJ and all chemist*.
Stware of worthiest Imitation*
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Ssow-witits
PATiKT Rollvb Fi,on» It Is the gvestest sacoess of th»
*rs.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ Dorothy ” p. 15.
Her Majesty’s Theatre.—“ Olancarty ” „
Criterion Theatre.—“ School For Scandal”
Gaiety Theatre. —“ Current Cash ” „
Royal Standard Theatre.— Burlesque Company..,. „
Alhambra Music Hall.— Minstrelsy „
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, George Rignold
has put off the crimson of Mephisto and donned
the green of the Irish exile. Last Saturday night
witnessed the initial performance of Tom Taylor’s
Irish historical four-act play of “Clancarty; or
the Assassination Plot, 1696.” This has been
played so often in Sydney that not even the
presence of Lord Carington’s yawn and Lady
Carington’s smile could till the house, and the
sombre black of dress-circle swelldom was broken
and speckled with democratic splotches of humble
tweed. The plot of the piece is very simple, and
hinges oil a marriage of children who were after-
wards separated by the political fortunes of the
respective houses of Stuart and Orange.
Rignold, of course, plays the hero and struts rap-
turously amid battalions of stage kisses to the
altitude of “ living happily ever afterwards.” He
poses very nicely every five minutes, and annexes
all the lime-light, all the pearl-cream, and all the
sugar-candy at Mr. Tom Taylor’s disposal with
moderate success. Brian Darley was prettily
caparisoned, but neglected to clothe his voice,
which, unlike Handsome George’s, somehow never
adapts itself to phrasing lovers’ vows. Stirling
Whyte fills the part of William of Orange
with conscientiousness, and Mr. Corlesse
made a fairly phlegmatic Dutchman as Wil-
liam Bentinck, Earl of Portland. As the
obdurate Whig, Lord Spencer, Mr. Hazlitt
acted with unflinching severity, and a number of
Jacobites flitted about the stage breathing arson
and assassination in a subduedly ferocious minor
key. The part of Lady Betty Noel was taken by
a compound Greelt-and-Roman lady, who calls
herself Athena Claudius, but her acting was rather
less dignified than her name, and she walked
through the piece with a considerable amount of
spirit, struggling against a role in which she ap-
peared to be consciously over-weighted. This
about filled the bill for the defence ; the acting of
Miss Kate Bishop was, however, the best thing in
“ Clancarty.” In her interview with her husband
in the chamber set-scene, and with the King in
the last act, she was admirable ; she rang
the highest notes of pathos and tragedy
when she pleaded on her knees for Clan-
carty’s life in the name of the dead Queen.
After various complications the Irish noble is
saved, all is forgiven, and husband and wife retire
to the bogs of Arran to cultivate the Hibernian
potato of conjugal felicity. The underplot con-
sists of the courtship and clandestine marriage of
Lady Betty Noel —the young lady with the
Graeco-Roman cognomen—with Lord Woodstock,
the other Bentinck with the nice clothes afore-
said. The rifts in the contraction are filled up
with sentiment, kisses, gun-shots, sword-thrusts,
and appeals to regality, and the whole panorama
gently subsides at 11 p.m.
*# * #
“ Current Cash,” as represented by the
Dan Barry triumvirate at Sydney Gaiety, is a
piece which will probably be handed down to
posterity for the purpose of showing how vice is
once more ker-rushed, and also what a miserable
shot was the British soldier of the 19th century.
The narrative is caused partly by an officer who
is guilty of ungentlemanly conduct on a hard
cliair in the trackless desert, and who is haunted
ever afterwards by a funny strategist who was
standing behind him when he did it ; but in a
greater degree it depends on the asinine incom-
petence of Her Majesty’s troops, 12 of whom
shoot at a prisoner at a range of about six
inches, and leave him to recover after all.
He was standing quite still, too, and
using pathetic language at the time, which
intensifies the horror of the proceedings.
Several undressed foreign gentlemen with clubs
afterwards carry him tenderly to their lair, and
when he is sufficiently recovered they give him a
job to chop wood and cart dirt for an alien race.
After a while he grows tired of this, and sends in
his resignation to the secretary of the tribe. His
wife and daughter, meanwhile, have eked out a
precarious living on bread and potatoes, and their
fortune has been embezzled by the officer men-
tioned above, who revels in ham and eggs, and has
a whole pot of jam every day, and heeds not the
cry of the widow and the fatherless, but threatens
instead to set the dog on them. Things come to a
crisis here, and his sin culminates, and just
at this point two broken boots intrude
themselves into the drama, followed slowly
by a patched pant and a black eye. The
owner of these properties rises silently with the
glare of a thousand Tophets revolving in his other
eye, and looming up in the awful majesty of an
avenging fury he gives the sufferers a small sum of
money and doesn’t say anything. It is the man
who was fired at and missed in the first act, and
who has since been acting as light porter to a
heathen nation on the top of earth’s flowery
mound. This last remark is borrowed. He and
the major, who publicly and-on a chair in an open
place did the disgraceful act already hinted at, get
into gaol together, and both, on a sudden thought,
open the door and come out. Then they swallow
each other in single combat, and next morning a
quantity of cats-meat is found at the bottom of a
wall belonging to the British Crown. Somebody—
we are not quite certnin who—lives happily ever
afterwards. There is a great moral in “Current
Cash ” for people who can spare time to have
morals, but if the wronged officer would not strain
himself so much in the pathetic parts, and if his
ideas of emotion did not consist in standing on his
toes and then coming down hard on the soles of
both feet, it might lead to better results. Mr.
George Herbert, however, is good enough to shore
up a lot of weak places, and Mr. Fred. Cam-
bourne—an enquiring Cockney with a polished
nose —is an elevating feature. Sundry ladies—
particularly Miss Dora Mostyn—look nice and
wear pretty things, and play their parts to match,
and a crowded house bursts its boots in applause.
* * 3S *
“High Jinks,” at Sydney Academy, will
receive due notice next week.
*# * *
The itinerant phrenologist and bump-
tickler used to be rather a great man in the
colonies, but his sun is fast setting below the hori-
zon. Trade has got so bad that the “professor ”
is now reduced to running his show on the prin-
ciple of the more you pay the more you gets; the
subject who .planks down ss. is informed that he
is an incipient murderer and would rob his father
if he had the chance; the half-sovereign man
shov/s traces of a number of redeeming qualities;
and in the patient who gives a pound, the higher
faculties are strongly developed. But, unhappily,
the fivfe-shilling subject frequently pounds the pro-
fessor, and a new class of half-crown men are rising
up, whom the phrenologist feels bound as a matter
of business to describe as degraded orang-outangs,
and who sometimes tear all his clothes off him in
return, and rub his nose in the dust. Only last
week a dim grey phantom was seen doing 18 knots
an hour over a country road in the Hawera (N.Z.)
district at midnight, simply because he told the
man who kept close behind him with a club that
he was only one remove from an idiot. This
particular “ professor ” had been doing a good
business, bub one unlucky evening a little man
who wore seedy clothes and walked with a curious
hop came up to the platform and speculated in a
half-crown reputation. What he got was a mix-
ture of Cfesar Borgia and softening of the brain,
and the outraged lecturer finished up by warning
all the ladies present to shun the half-crown man
us they would a serpent. The two-and-sixpenny
patient went out smiling, but when the professor
emerged he smacked him on the ear, and then
turning him upside down, he welted him for five
minutes with a walking-stick. Also he put his
foot through the box of charts, and jumped on the
model of the human head till he reduced it to
dust, and finally, repenting of having let his
enemy off so cheaply, he started after him with a
view to getting him down and showing him the
matter in sundry new lights. But the shrieking
phrenologist distanced him along a country road,
and never even came back to claim his clothes.
He now pursues his calling in remote parts, and
so much is he subdued that his customers can get
for a shilling a character that puts the twelve
apostles in the shade, and even a sixpenny man is
described as “ well-meaning and inoffensive.”
** * *
That long-neglected caravanserai known as
Sydney Opera House, re-opened on Saturday
under the auspices of Harry Rickards, whose
variety company drew an immense audience. For-
tunately for the public peace of mind Mr. Rick-
ards has abjured any attempt at drama or comedy,
and so long as he keeps to
his present line of busi-
ness he ought to achieve
success. Some of his
singers are weak in the
upper register, or the
flute obligato, or some-
thing else with a long
name in which the soul of
the daily paper man
revels, and their da capo
appears to be slightly out
of repair, if they ever had
one—and we don’t sup-
pose any well-regulated
family would be without
it; but Monsieur Provo,
the great Parisian “jugu-
laire,” is a genius of a
high order and can swal-
low more dinner-services
and then extract them
whole out of his boots
than most men of his
dimensions. The mario-
nette entertainment is
another bright inspira-
tion, the skeleton jig in
particular being calcu-
lated at once to fill the
public with joy and to
draw the attention of
ladies in evening dress to
what they must one day
become ; and the dancing
of sundry pretty girls in
nice attire is a subject
for national rejoicing.
Some more gush which
we intended to expend is
put away to cool until
next week.
# # #
“ Dorothy ” main-
tains the solemn mono-
tony of her inflated way
at Sydney Royal, and
does a prosperous business
in her own unobtrusive
fashion. “School for
Scandal,” at the Criterion,
closes this week, thu3
showing, as was shown
before by the career of
the good young man who
became a remains, that
the very festive and
morally dilapidated things
of this life last the
longest. The show at the
Royal Standard has re-
ceived a powerful boost
through the lavish con-
duct of the wizard of the
wilderness, who is occa-
sionally taken with a
desire to present a book
to everybody in the
theatre, and another
tremendous jerk has been
added by the reckless
conduct of Mr. Frank Smith, who offers a priz
of £5 to the individual who will make the largest
number of words out of “ Camaralzainan.” The
theatre is now filled nightly with an anxious
audience trying to think out new words, and
being taken ourselves with the prevailing mania,
we have already constructed 14 bad foreign swears
out of the long-drawn-out name of Messrs. Duff
and Stanfield’s*gaudy burlesque.
#* * #
Her Majesty having resolved by Act of
Parliament upon having a birthday at a time
when she ought to know better, the Coogee
Aquarium has risen to the occasion and presents a
programme which is calculated to floor the human
race. Harry Rickards’ company appear in the
afternoon and go through their entire pro-
gramme regardless of exoense. The Japanese
Village will be in full swing, and the
exiles from a foreign strand will be sup-
ported by a multitude of side - shows of
various degrees of importance. Two bands and
an amount of dancmg and skating which is suffi-
cient to break the neck of a whole nation
are thrown in. The Ashfield Recreation Ground
will boom on the same occasion, and an extensive
programme is prepared at Botany, where a
thoughtful management announces that no two
ladies will be allowed to dance together. Cursing
strictly prohibited.
*# * *
In the “ Mystery of a Hansom Cab, ” the
villain gives £5OOO to secure a marriage certificate,
and hoots with joy as he hands over his cheque
for the amount. As he could get any number of
copies of the document for 3s. 6d. each, or there-
abouts, this action on his part is so shiftless and
incomprehensible as to make any further dealings
with the geutkmau absolutely impossible. And
yet, if he went and got the document for 3s. 6d.,
as any sane man would do; the drama would
break down in a heap.
*# # #
The French Comedy Company commenced
their trouble at the Freemasons’Hall, Melbourne,
on Saturday night, but comment on this strange
enterprise is held over, because our Gracious
Queen enters the three-score-years-and-ten-stage
on Thursday, instead of doing it on a more con-
venient date. The anniversary of this joyful
event also stands between The Bulletin and a
pound of butter for “ Dora,” set up at the
Princess’s in addition to “ The Barrister.” This
flimsy comedy of high-kicking and general knock-
about business wanted propping up badly.
Hitherto the drivel had commenced at 8.10 and
spent its feeble force at 10.15, but even a deli-
cately reared dress-circle wants something more
solid than a two-hours’ farce. “ Alone in London ”
holds the Royal until next Saturday, when
Bland Holt tries “Taken from Life” for the final
six nights. After which that cheerful interpreter
of comic villainy and virtue will bring down a
large credit balance and vamoose. “ Hans the
Boatman” is still howling like the voice of the
tempest, and they do threaten to expose new
depths of meaning in “ My Sweetheart,” later on.
Just here it may be suggested that Minnie
Palmer’s piece can be made into a tragedy or an
Italian opera, without losing the thread of its
simple narrative. The Alexandra is struggling on
without the benign influence of its late lessee,
Mr. C. P. Williams, who has departed to
other shores in quest of more ten-act out-
rages. Ada Ward and company are giving
creditable performances before oases of public
dotted over a vast desert of nobody at all.
The Juvenile Exhibition is catering for the infant
mind on a scale of undiminished splendour, and
the electric fountain introduces more combina-
tions of colour than a black eye on its fourth day.
Victoria Hall is largely held up by the elastic
Donaldson fßrothers, and the Coghills have been
taking Burke and Peter Newton into their Home
of Refined Minstrelry. ‘ ‘ Maritana ”is the second
LORD II
yti Sit Wu f
attempt of Misg Amy Sherwin and her rather un-
certain company. The orchestra has improved,
and the show, generally, takes a higher situation
in the esteem of its fellow-man.
#* * *
Melbourne Herald describes a local evan-
gelist as “a splendid elocutionist, his delivery
being strangely like that of Mr. W. J. Holloway.”
Henceforth we shall regard the mild-eyed ox as a
splendid elocutionist.
## # #
In the “ School for Scandal” at Sydney
Criterion appear two actors in parts played by
them 30 years ago in Melbourne —Mr. Harwood
as Sir Oliver Surface, and Mr. Gladstone as
Snake.
TP 'Tv' TP *7v*
George Darrell’s ponderous sensationalism
“ The Sunny South,” has proved a treat for the
gallery boys at Adelaide Royal, and has in
the immortal words of a great journalist, “ taken
well and given pleasure to all.” All that talented
painting and able-bodied paper-hanging could do
for the piece has been done, and some good acting
is thrown in with the rest. “ Hue and Cry,”
another crying moral, will follow. Miss Yon
Finkelsteiii, the Jerusalem lecturess, who is
managed by the Much-Travelled, is coining money
at the Town Hall, and the rest of the amuse-
ments consist of Tommy Hudson and the skating
rink.
#* # *
In Pinero’s newest comedy, “ Sweet
Lavender,” a wealthy Chicago pork-butcher and
the conventional English girl whose heart he is
laying siege to become dreadfully bored with one
another. As a sort of bye-path out of the awkward
silence, the lady asks her lover timidly, and as a
last resource, if he will take a cup of tea ? The
Yankee assents, and, as he holds out his hands for
the cup,, exclaims exultingly (aside): “In Eng-
lish society whilst there is tea there is hope! ’
That is so.
JL JL
'7V' ‘TV* TP
A Tasmanian paper says “ the citizens of
Melbourne presented Miss Essie Jenyns with a
beautifully- worked silver wreath.” We know the
man who was those citizens.
## # #
A little theatrical sensation was provided
the other day at Rockhampton (Q.) by a travelling
company which had roamed by accident into the
sultry vale of Jehosaphat that lies beneath the
tropic of Capricorn. They were playing “Pyg-
malion and Galatea,” and one of the necessary
properties was a dead fawn, which Luoippe
brings on in the second act. The property-man
as it chanced, had never seen a fawn, neither had
he at any period of his career loved a young gazelle
or otherwise committed himself to any facts in
natural history, but with a zealous devotion to
business he went and clubbed the brains out of a
hoary William goat and stowed the carcase away
for future use. Two days later the favourite
comedy was produced in all its simple pathos, and
at the correct moment the Athenian warrior
entered bearing laboriously in his hand a stupend-
ous goat which had gone bad, and the Greek
maiden, painfully holding her nose in the pre-
sence of an effluvium which made her stagger,
hailed it with tears as her slaughtered pet.
Then she gave up and fled. Lucippe,
however, held on manfully, and stated in
sorrowful accents his regret at having cut short
the joyous existence of an animal which, judging
from outward evidence, he had shot because it
was too high to live and was walking about shed-
ding pestilence. But the audience didn’t wait to
hear him. They retired in haste, and the in-
famous odour of the animile pursued them down
the street.
## # #
A showman, who once ran a newspaper,
tells a story, which will amuse the printers. He
hired a big coloured person to do “ chores ” about
the office, and, on one occasion, directed him to
move a forme from one place to another. The
darkey promptly put it on his head, and just as
promptly his head went through, and there was a
terrible mess of “pi.” To his employer he thus
reported : “ Boss, I done spilled that type, but I
saved the frame. ”
#* * *
Henry Irving made £20,000 clear profit
during his recent trip to the States. And yet
brutal wretches who are lost to all sense of re-
spectability say his acting consists of two skips
and a slide.. A lofty masher entered the dress-
circle of Brisbane Royal one night last week with
an overcoat on his arm, and proceeded to hang the
garment on the back of a seat. At this crisis he
discovered that it wasn’t so much an overcoat as a
pair of pants which he was carrying, and he fled
in disorder. The Federal Minstrels are playing
to more seats than people at Brisbane Gaiety.
Miss Dorothy Dene, actress, is reported to be en-
gaged to Sir Frederick Leighton, President of the
Royal Academy. Dollie: “ What beautiful
flowers you wore last night, dear ! Who gave
them to you?” Nellie (sweetly): “Your hus-
band, love.” The Lynch Family of Bellringers
are raging in Victoria. Mr. Dampier has been
playing to big houses at Newcastle, where Miss
Dampier received a perfect ovation. Mr. Gunther,
a gentleman who cannot be trodden on with im-
punity, manages. An American travelling wax-
work made a stoppage recently at Youngston
(Ohio), and was doing a good business till one
night the wax-figure of the Queen of Italy was
overcome by the closeness of the atmosphere and
fainted. It was then discovered that the figures
were all alive, and people who had said they
weren’t sufficiently life-like were much disgusted.
The Majeronis have disbanded their company,
and gone back to Melbourne. The roads in the
Queensland country districts are very bad in parts
just now. A company which was travelling on
foot came into a Western town the other day, and
reported the loss of their comedian, who had
sunk en route. When an actor talks in
tones that are alternately a whisper and a
bellow it doesn’t always signify that there is any-
thing wrong with his chest. The bellow is a hint
to the property man that he isn’t keeping the
lime light on him. A Newcastle (N.S.W.) paper
says : “Mr. Dampier’s Jacques can stand him in
the very front rank of Shakespearian actors, and
fives him a right to occupy a place of honour with
rving or Wilson Barrett.”
The other week, in Melbourne, a burglar
was arrested by a dog. It is to be hoped the
police will follow his good example.
When the Chinese habeas corpus cases were
before the N.S.W. Supreme Court, David Gaun-
son, M.L.A. (Vic.) stalked in, and deposited him-
self in the jury-box, right under the eye and nose
of Mr. Justice Windeyer. David at once put on his
coldest glances, and had a long and wondering look
at his Honor.
Ed. Bulletin : Sir, —For a common-senso
comment upon the present mob-directed crusade
against the Premier see H. J. Akerman’s letter in
the S.M. Herald, of 16th inst. —a telling reply to
The Bulletin’s fanatical and foolishly prejudiced
“Anti-Chinaman” article lately, which fell very
flat, owing mainly to your journal’s inability to see
one redeeming feature in “ John Chinaman.” In
comparison with our loafing larrikins, in public
and private life, it would be as insulting as it is
unfair to place the ordinary Chinaman. Their
sobriety, industry, perseverance, thrift, and meek-
ness is gall and bitterness to the so-called working-
man ; hence the present mob-rule—a disgrace to
any civilised country. Thank Heaven ! there is a
spark of justice left in the N.S.W. Supreme Court.
Restrict Mongolian immigration, but do it fair and
square; and give “John” his due. —Fairrlay.
Sydney, 18th May, 1888.
[Tub Bulletin never denied justice to the Chinaman,
but people of the “ Fairplay ” species often advocate
the setting aside of all the forms of justice when their
own countrymen are concerned. The larrikin, after all,
is more of a blood relation of ours than the Chow, and his
very wildness and vivaciousness and daring show that
there is some good in him, and that he possesses qualities
which may be turned to splendid account on behalf of
the community. Of the Chinaman, the most com-
mendable characteristics are slavish and servile. He
is a worm without a backbone, and the “Fairplay ” class
love him because he allows himself to be jumped upon.
He supplies cheap labour, he is oily and obsequious, and
these are the creeping traits that recommend him to the
capitalists, who, like “ Fairplay," want to keep this con-
tinent for exploitation by syndicates. “ Fairplay ” never
writes to the papers when his own blood-fellows—the
larrikins aforesaid—-are on trial for their lives and tbs
ordinary forms of law are packed away in a strong box to
secure their hanging.— Ed. Bulletin.]


FROM RHEUMATISM.
The CELEBRATED
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
A Patent and Pleasant Remedy.
This popular stimulant has been proved to afford
Great Relief in RHEUMATISM and GOUT.
It SOOTHES the NERVES by its gently
diffusive properties, ALLAYS IRRITATION by
its quieting effects, and, TONING the SYSTEM,
STRENGTHENS the ORGANS so as to perfect
functional action.
£jf There is nothing known better calculated, to
invigorate the constitution than
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Hotter Floor, and your bread wil be as white as snow.
Pepper
Salt
Aboriginal Thomas Druitt, sentenced to
death fora criminal assault, “seemed not to fully
comprehend the nature of the sentence,’ according
to a telegram of last Thursdays date. But, for-
tunately, he had just “turned religious,” and it
was confidently expected that the blessed truth
would dawn upon Thomas's regenerated condition
before Nosey Bob introduced him to life eternal.
A word witii Thomas :
In a back street of a neglected Melbourne
suburb, where the washing is hung out on the
window-sills and goats predominate, an old woman
with a face like a venerable public wrong is
(‘Tigaged in mopping up the blood-stained field of
battle with a malarious cloth, and removing boots
and human hair from what was once a happy
home. . The house where these evidences of carnal
concussion are strewn about is a small one, and
was at one time occupied jointly by Thompson
and his wife and by the newly-married Smiths,
but now the Thompsons are scattered afar upon
the heaving sea of life, and Smith is severed from
his childhood’s haunts. For 12 months the two
families lived together in harmony and borrowed
each other's furniture' and things affably and
without prejudice; in fact, Thompson borrowed
nearly everything that Smith possessed in the
world, and Smith took a temporary loan of
Thompson’s entire assets, and the ladies hung
their washing out on the same line and fetched
their supper-beer in the same big jug. But at
last Thompson became possessed of a baby, and
then he seems to have become cold and reticent,
and to have viewed Smith with an unfeeling eye ;
and when that gentleman went in to abuse the
Government, as usual, he treated him with indiffer-
ence and merely said “goo-goo to the infant.
He also manifested a reserve about lending his
furniture to Smith any more, and thus an es-
trangement gradually arose and spread until it
covered the landscape. Smith ceased to drop m
on Thompson, and made remarks through the
keyhole instead to the effect that the baby was
bandy and had a cock-eye, and he would remark
casually that if he ever had a red-faced
offspring with a long horse-countenance he would
drop it down a well or leave it_ at the
foundling hospital. Then, when the child raised
a reverberating cat-chorus in the hours of
darkness, he would come out on the landing in the
snowy robes of night and curse somethingawful,
and advise the happy father to lie on top of it till
it was quenched. Thus the coolness between the
two families increased and multiplied till at last
one evening the misunderstanding came to a head
and burst. Smith had just been remarking that
the pride of Thompson’s heart was a pigeon-toed
and chicken-breasted plague, a mental, moral,
physical, and anatomical wreck, and a public
nuisance, and had offered to sell it to a wild-beast
show, and had stated that its father was a China-
man and its grandmother a lady who had got 12
months for stealing a ham, and that the rest of its
ancestors had either been hanged or had broken
stones for a living, also that Mrs. Thompson’s
feet turned in, and that her head sloped back so
that a club would glance off her forehead and
wreck a public building—but at this moment
Thompson flew nut and rushed straight into Smith’s
eye and nose. Then Mrs. Smith landed Mrs.
Thompson on the ear with a pound of steak, and
sailed in, and the two ladies ate each other’s hair.
In the scene which ensued the furniture was
thrown about at random, the supper trodden into
the dust, the blessed baby was spilt upon its head
and lay wailing with one foot in its mouth, the
clock was wrecked against Smith’s features, and
the springs went whirring all over the rooms
and got tangled up with the performer’s .feet,
and Thompson's dog bit Smith in the
spine. The neighbours broke in just here and
quelled the riot, and sorted out the lunatics, and
the landlord arrived a minute later and summarily
ejected the whole crowd. Thompson hailed a van
in the gloaming, and put into it one frying-pan
tile only ai tide in his house which was not re-
duced to undistinguishable smash ; and Smith de-
parted for new quarters dragging his furniture
behind him. Possibly they may never meet again
on earth. The silver cord has been snapped and
-the golden bowl dropped out of the window, and
the sweet blossoms of friendship have been boedl
up with the implement of violence and animosity.!
Also, there isn’t a whole window left in the house. I
DISILLUSION.
NEARSIGHTED ARTIST: “BJOVE, THERE'S A GLORIOUS SUBJECT; JUST
WAIT TILL I SKETCH IT—A BEAUTIFUL AMBER AND GOLD SUNSET
WITH A WHITE CLOUD SLOWLY MOVING TO THE RIGHT. IF I COULD
GET THAT ON CANVAS AS IT SHOULD BE, IT WOULD BE WORTH A
FORTUNE”
FARMER'S BOY; “WHAT YER TALKIN’ ABOUT? THAS MY RED-HEADED
SISTER SETTIN OVER THERE ON A ROCK. AND THE CLOUD IS THE
OLD WHITE HORSE A-EATIN’ GRASS.”
“It has been decided by the N.S.W.
Banco Court that it is not necessary for a foreigner
in a British country to understand all the words
used during the marriage ceremony.”—
A good, reliable prophet who can prophesy
by steant has long been one of the great wants of
Australia, and it is therefore pleasant to learn that
the next best thing has been discovered in Mel-
bourne _and is now in full blast with a
great future before it. A Victorian lady announce s
that she has a brother who experiences shocks
when he stands over ground containing gold, and
she offers to hand him, over to the Mining
Department for a reasonable consideration.
She will also give a preliminary trial, not
necessarily for publication but merely as a proof of
good faith; and she guarantees the brother to
be in good repair and free from spavin, the act of
Divine Providence and the Queen’s enemies only
excepted. He is also of good principles, and was
brought up by hand. The owner of this valuable
public blessing draws attention to the fact that no
Government should be without a brother of this
kind, and she estimates that when he is in good
condition he will be able to go out and have two
shocks every morning before breakfast. Experts,
too, have calculated that a small party, equipped
with 12 months’ provisions and 15 kegs of rum,
and attended by this physiological curio., could
thoroughly prospect the whole of Australia within
a year, the apparatus being led about by a string,
aiid his shocks being taken down by an able staff
of reporters ; and fears are already entertained
that unless the Government hurry up with more
than their usual celerity the instrument will
be giving himself away in the interests of a
grinding monopoly. For our own part, however,
we view him as a much overrated invention ; in
fact, we have grown old and hoary in the business
ourselves, and it is hardly possible to throw a flat-
iron in any part of Australia without hitting the
scene of one of our shocks in the gold industry.
Our specialty lies in experiencing shocks in places
where there isn’t any gold, and it naturally follows
that if all the places where we underwent convul-
sions were marked off on the map the other
places would be the ones where the pre-
cious metal lay. Our modus opemndi consisted
simply in digging as long as the storekeeper would
give us credit, and as long as the bloated capitalist
would give us backing-money, and when they
j stopped supplies and the hole “ petered out,”
then the shock would ensue with unfailing re-
gularity. We gave up this work at last, and we
I 1 now devote ourselves to having cramps outside
banks and other financial institutions, by which
means we are enabled to test their solvency. This
gift has been judiciously cultivated until it can be
applied to overdrafts, politicians, and time-pay-
ment furniture, and it shows no sign of deteriora-
tion through age and frequent use. At present
we are having it about four times a week, but this
output could be trebled, if necessary, to meet any
sudden demand which might arise.
The N.S.W. Government has been
forced to release Lo Pak and 49 other Chinese
from illegal detention in quarantine on a writ of
habeas corpus.
WITHERED FIELD FLOWERS.
(A PROPHECY.)
To Melbourne came a Bishop
Known as Field Flowers Goe,
He brought a 1 >urning message
Of the frying pan below :
He shrank with pious horror
From religion that is “broad ”
Preaching Sodom and Gomorrah,
And the “ vengeance of the Lord.”
Men went to hear the Bishop
Rather freely for a while
To pipe off his appearance,
Or to criticise his style;
15ut when he froze their marrow
And put ’em in a fright,
They called his notions “narrow”
(Which was, very likely, right).
As months went on that Bishop
Didn’t gee a little bit —
’Hie sainted shoes of Moorhouse
Field’s tootsies wouldn’t fit;
When he gave a man a billet
On account of being “low,”
His selection couldn’t fill it,
And they slated holy Goe.
Then wider grow the chasm
’Twixt the Bishop and his flock,
Till no credit would they give him,
And he took the blessed “ knock ; ”
In the book you’ll find it written
Row they pickled him in brine,
And sent him back to Britten
in the Spring of ’Eighty-nine.
I )ear Thomas, black brother, go in for repentance,
Be a Christian light of the beautiful band,
Then the cause and effect of your Christian sent-
ence,
No doubt, Thomas Druitt, you'll soon under-
stand ; .
The parson will tell you sonic facts for beginners -
When a chapter or two of the Bible you ve read
You’ll learn how the Saviour decided that sinners
Must always be hanged by the neck till they re
dead.
You went wrong', Thomas Druitt, through know-
ing no better ;
You never had thought of the sweet byo-and-
bye—
Ere the law of our land is enforced to the letter,
You’ll see why the country condemned you to
die.
E’en death for the Christian possesses no terrors,
Translated you’ll be to a mansion above,
If you duly repent of your heathenish errors -
And study the lesson of brotherly love.
A singular likeness exists, we agree,
Between two of the things that we frequently see,
But which most people say are as far, far away
From a common resemblance as night is from day,
The one called the Altar,
The other the Halter I
Now, take heed to the parson—he mumbles his
rite,
And the youth who’s before him is deaf with
delight ;
He hears hardly a sente nee, knows hardly a word,
But is sure at the end of is a cord !
The one called the Altar !
And now look to the judge ; he is biting his speech
Into bits that are merciless, hard, and that reach
The youth’s ears as dull sounds ; yet that youth is
quite sure
That a cord at the end of that speech is secure !
The one called the Halter !
Youths may go to the Altar, as Judex Legis says,
Without knowing what sense has the parson who
prays ;
And not knowing the sense of the judge, too,
youths go
To the Halter, as those who have memories know !
Ho, Priest of the Altar !
Ho, Priest of the Halter !
THAT DARNED LO PAK.
Quite illegally they dealt
With that darned Lo Pak ;
From the very first we felt
He could not go back ;
Tis vain to swear and snuffle
For the (government’s rebuff 11
Show its wrong to double-shuffle
With a darned Lo Pak,
To play for heavy stakes
With a darned Lo Pak,
And to condescend to “ fakes
Makes the case look black ;
Old Parke?, the flashy stepper,
Is receiving lots of pepper
For a-fooling with the leper—
With that darned Lo Pak.
Let us try another game
With that darned Lo Pak,
(living John his proper name
(For a knave’s called Jack),
Toe-public voice and feeling'. *
Is against all tricky “ spieling,”
So we’ll cut, but leave off dealing
With that darned Lo Pak.
Aboriginalities.
A Scotch uncle and his nephew Geordie con-
fronted each other the other day, on Wellington
(N.Z.) wharf, after a long and gruesome separa-
tion. Instead of rushing into ain anither’s arms
when they met, the Scotties twain looked skian-
dhus at each other for about ten minutes, remark-
ing all the time, S(c)otto voce, ‘ ‘ Weel, am dommed!”
&c. They then opened fire with a hair-lifting
Scotch “fiite,” and proceeded to knock the wind
out of each other with damaging quotations from
Solomon, Jeremiah, and the lesser prophets, until
a big crowd had gathered, and a six-foot-three
peeler, fearing a “ braich av the paice,” moved
them on to the nearest pub., where they had some
whusky shouted for them, and where they
whacked each other from the unrevised version
till further orders. The reason for which conduct
was this. (ieordie, the nephew, had been a long
time in Australia, where he had made his
“pile,” and lost it again. When he left
home, many years ago, his uncle, a single man,
was in good circumstances. After losing his
money Geordie intended to go home some day and
assist the uncle to lose his also. It happened,
however, that about the time of the nephew’s mis-
fortunes the uncle met with bad luck likewise and
was reduced to genteel poverty, but, although a
theological correspondence was carried on between
tlie two, they carefully concealed the state of their
worldly affairs from each other. They waited
patiently for some time expecting each other to
“ dee,” but the uncle a* last managed to raise the
wind and started off to the Antipodes in searcli of
his loving nephew. On reaching Sydney, where
iie expected to find a prosperous heir to his
poverty, he was amazed to find that no-,
body there knew Geordie from a crow. After
much trouble, however, he ascertained that
“ the boy,” as he called him, had left for New
Zealand the very day of his own arrival in port,
lie therefore wrote to Wellington, where he was
told the young man had gone, informing him of
his own arrival in Sydney. After waiting for a
few weeks, and getting no reply, the uncle pawned
his watch and some other things and took a pas-
sage in the s.s. Wakatipu for New Zealand. On
reaching Wellington he found that Geordie had
got liis letter and was on his way back to Sydney
—the two having in fact crossed each other two
days out from the last port. As might be ex-
pected the news made the old man foam and use
strong language, but, as his money was nearly all
gone, he had to grin and bear it. He could not
afford to follow Geordie any further. The latter,
on reaching Sydney and making enquiries at
his uncle’s late address found that he had come
over on a wild-goose chase, and he also took the
plug out and let the profanity flow in bucketfuls.
Still, however, believing that his uncle had plenty
of money, he determined to find him even if it
cost him his last shilling, and he accordingly in-
vested that coin in another passage to New Zea-
land. On the way across he fell in with a new
chum who had come out with his relation, and
was able to tell him how miserably hard up the
old man was when he left Sydney. This informa-
tion made Geordie so wild that it took several
men all their time to hold him from jumping over-
board. About the same time the uncle in Wel-
lington found out that Geordie, so far from being
the wealthy man he imagined, was at present an
uncertificated bankrupt and hadn’t a penny to
bless himself with. And this is why their meet-
ing on Wellington wharf was of such a dreich
and sultry nature. They hadn’t a sixpence left
between them, and when two Scotchmen met on
a foreign strand and have nae siller, look out for
squalls, sermons, and rough weather generally,
and you’ll never be wrong.
* * *
Says P. M‘Q., in the D. and G. “ Some
time since, 1 saw an iguana and a black snake
with a yellow belly fighting. The iguana was bit
three different times by the snake,” &c., &c., &c.
Then lie tells how the iguana, each time it w»s
bitten, went off and ate some fern leaves, and,
returning refreshed, sailed in again and ulti-
mately killed the snake. We can lay over
that yarn altogether, with a stern experience
told us by the editor of a journal devoted
to theological subjects. He had been up all
night reading “Revelations,” on an empty
stomach, and towards morning it struck him that
the room was filled with “ smoke from the glory
of Paradise,” and, through this, he saw the four-
and-twenty elders wrestling with the angel in
charge of the Second Vial which, by an oversight
was corked with a Thistle Blend stopper. One of
them, a certain Elder M‘Tavish, from Aberdeen
awa, got a chance to whisk the stopper out, and
taste the mixture. “ Let the angel gang his ways
in peace, mafreens,” he yelled, “it’s nocht but
Scotch charity, an’ he’s gaun tae kill every livin
soul in the sea wi’t.” Right then a beast, with a
dude’s face and blonde mutton-chop wings,
came behind the Elder and bit him in the leg ;
then rushed away again, and, lifting up one of
the sardonyx paving stones of heaven, took out a
bottle of dagger-brand rum, and, draining it off at
a gulp, said sardonyxically, “ Saved—had him
behind !” Then our informant saw another beast
—a brunette, with a figure like Mudgee Taylor’s,
and a row of pink eyes down his backbone like
buttons —chasing the four frog-like spirits that
come out of the mouth of the false prophet; and
couldn’t get in again, but at this moment the red-
haired dragon with seven heads and ten horns,
who had. been sitting whistling “Boyne Water”
and waiting patiently for the woman clothed with
the sun to come within reach, caught sight of him
and went for him, while out of his mouth came a
sharp sword. While these two were snorting blue-
flames into one another’s eyes, another beast built
on the model of a hay-rake with an oscillating
cylinder and web feet, collected the frogs, and
then, hauling off his stocking, shoved a mill-stone
into it and joined in the general rejoicings by
banging the other beasts with it. About there
the angel with one foot on sea and one on land
chipped in and offered to lay 20 to 1 in crowns or
harps on the field, bar one, but the four-and-
twenty elders ruled him out of order, and said the
proceedings were too earthly in their nature, and
too much like a Synod for up there. Then the
whole crowd was tilted into the lake that burnetii
with fire and brimstone. That was on an empty
stomach —on the word of a minister of the Free
Church. P. M‘Q. doesn’t tell us what he saw his
combat on. But you hardly know what you’re
drinking these days.
* * *
Many years ago a squatter and a shepherd
were, during a fearful drought, removing sheep
from the Bogan River to a station near Orange
(N.S.W.). The experience was a fearful one; the
sheep and horses all died of thirst; the men could
hold out little longer. They were done, and
stretched on the ground beside one another. “We
both won’t die,” cried the shepherd, as lie cut a
vein in his arm, and held it to the grazier’s mouth.
He gave up his life’s blood, and saved the master,
for next day a boundary-rider rescued the sur-
vivor.


Personal Items.
JJI« til,.
IflWw su b-editor of the Even-
jj; StßAin 6 that P a P er and gone to the
HA / enn ings returned from
lsls °journ in le last week after a very
The Ger the thirsty North.
X K. 8 ? m P er °r is gradually getting
f 1C f men who are i n attendance
Jit kity* few Weeks to live.
ql Jyi S( i°m left behind him
Bolleston left £16,763,
■ A W S ° rDillon , allof N-S.W., £3250.
v"V b oiid” lb TK n ’ of Melbourne >
<ij/ ha t’s wJ tlomas 18 “ a many-sided
i tr ’ We Presume, than being a
sitSst, Melbourne’s episcopal
a Pronounced adherent
1 1 fester. nce his transference to the See
> railing ’ n< lnscr ibe their names upon
K» octor i Morell Mackenzie, the
P e figures lllB tbe Strand Theatre,
if? Vsh er » n the bill as Mr. H. Morell,
isi .ktePf parts.
[jtyj p r of Melbourne,
J. P m ond Barry, Sir Charles
: 'Virt conLi i' ranc i s ) ex-Premier of Vic-
> ty ' have been a “Sir,” too, but
who went to the
las Layers spiritual wants of the
ptij k etl H years f Ai England next month,
j \ ‘ ‘ m the colony, and does not
U deceased , of the firm
fcSffttothe S'® 11 ’ stationers, Melbourne,
to 0f £| -».000; but probate
ip Will al] Pt Jj OW search being made
Ifity , ° ed to have been made by
in the Civil Ser-
De P ar tment) who, when
■JSy tn v on ’.°fi e red to do his work
I i emam. The Government
j j r Sa bry. W 111 the service, at a third
occurr ed during the
RSJSX 1110 N.S.W. Supreme
SXcM eilc h work Mr - Salomons > Q- c ->
C e W that fn7b on international law,
irT htoV e Bench the convenience of one
A t L>lish. Wv n translate his ex-
ItCMay of .W hich member ?
l^/.»it h tl *' an Perp et 1 J? e J or William’s death
; h ' ated this
crowned .eyes, thou, too, Columbia,
v IOW m sorrow less for the
out °'" “*” r *
.’■ 9 ,U aithlul shepherd, patriot.
Ft "' Walt WmTMAN -
Q re 1?o« h as ; ;aro '• —“A perfectly
{C C e ll! ng to Wfi n J Pread < by the society
Stepteg]. 'te f Q d times, ‘a peer of the
i Ha? 1 { The r I T x I sl ? a hinstrument dealer
i s H° tha, S(J t Jt m question probably
I \vJtli( i U i 1 Il<ie rstood )f . 1 Lord Au gnstusLoftus,
. L Hrt .J o dse 0 f iG. acce Pted an honourable
once sen-
A Jtefj Judged ? R ,tys imprisonment for
is had many years
a Pfetty n „ 0 1° a . similar confine-
letHovfU °’ \ exclaimed the
j, • This fellow’s father
T’ Ka These g iv es me the same
A, if RBR things must run in
KSan Honor’s son will be as
Toole ordered
V>ai t M.W o>atifi 0 >atifi the!, j lg London firm of
ijbiS & lirTr f der wasn’t executed
JvJp foJMe, Tool ftitude and despatch.”
iKS C firm e hustled into the shop
V ftllS a? g '.house J' saa5 aa l :i em erged from
\|»°ttoj S tta,ig} l (, ’ l a nd the comedian put
|Q, bfit if „tf you are Parkins,
y ° u are Gotto, d n
' CKSi l a t S er of the N-B-
-iftCS >• He J ly esca l> ed a terrible
lnan ag e r of a cer-
ilVH, g establishment, and
Sty V t ;t> doot nP°om entered, when,
S for °7 d > and he was fast
him, one of the em-
-1 K allrio3 t as^sF« 00rn ’ and f °nnd
'tyjbpbviv s stiff as some of his
tytytyppe 0 f j.
itttoS w on ? o h'eoT nd ’ ° Ver wb om the
a „ Q despondent gushed so
to u. dy in h! 3eC i l 2 se he was too
». ‘ have a hu mble life, but just
Rjyk Thj g arge family by her,
a lftvem . amounting to
A% ty pig i. H, an j nt in providing tor
i V j! a , 9 new duke’s assets
of m an ? lual liability of
iWWN nJrf Samted uncle.
.IOToSr jJit otyfj-),, .unwilling to
'mi h? hV>h\ r n, sav du fu ng a man like
glisfi f a y 8; that “his father
'NtC which for many
7°st aH o ;7 la nd.” Why, the
' Ihl niost in Ireland as
4iu f , th r, Hearns are
,lAw l U hhgh) for-ff. R uus likes to have
the f 1 ’ Thito Fi as v Idear n did for
gUs i ’ y ° U knoW ’
-V : ’\ N,Xii >illi dI) 7LY Telegraph
’-‘‘Weak*
'JUi HJ in ulached^-? 11 ’ an d at length
! >-» lts lowest ebb, and
' fell** hui n n an V , 9n Hohepzollern
VJLH;. s gone ,> ge ntl v a i ni ty cannot resist.
'tej, "Strand in a few
Nr ?? gentle,, Un ty d to a Power, ”
V'l X ri ari dxed because he
W as an apology for
4 d T en ing, at Paris,
\; !llr ‘ral' i/' Laxter under-
h is Anti-
'nrnupaeS
K a TaVn ' Oamperdown
Ayß ■ n ° .
ehrist. Turning the name of the General and the
initial of his Christian name, “Ernest,” into
Greek numerals, he worked it out as follows
E 5, B 2, O 70, U 400, L 30, A 1, N 50, G 3, E 5,
R 100—666. So far the lecturer was triumphant,
for, as he spoke in English, his remarks were not
understood. But when somebody translated them
into French the meeting moved towards the plat-
form, and the Rev. Mr. Baxter had to flee.
H. C. E. Childers, M.P. for Edinburgh
(Scotland), has for 31 years drawn a pension of
£BOO per annum from the colony of Victoria, as a
reward for having filled, at a good screw, the
office of Collector of Customs from 1854 to 1857.
Sir Andrew Clark, ex-Surveyor-General, and Cap-
tain Pasley, ex-Inspector-General of Public Works,
have drawn similar amounts during similar periods.
Another pensioner on the Southern colony is Sir
Charles Gavan Duffy, who draws £lOOO a year as
an ex-Minister of the Crown. All these gentle-
men are absentees, but the pensions are drawn
with religious regularity.
The late E. Dwyer Gray, owner of the
Dublin Freeman’s Journal, was once a Pro
testant, but having married a Catholic lady, he
changed his religion, which fact enormously helped
his paper, although, oddly enough, for years most
of the very violent articles in defence of the priests
and Roman Catholicism were written by a pro-
fessed atheist. Gray really had no sympathies at
all with the Parnellites, and for years the Free-
man opposed them at every point, and denounced
them openly. But in the same way as he and his
paper had turned from Protestant to Catholic, so
they became Parnellite when there was money to be
made by it. The Parnellites led him a fine dance.
They were always threatening to turn United
Ireland into a daily, and to keep them quiet he
had to employ nearly all of them at preposterous
salaries on the Freeman. Indeed, it was to get
rid of this black-mail that Gray turned the Free-
man into a company.
It is stated by Labouchere that the ewer
and basin sent to the Pope by the Queen, as an
offering for his Jubilee, popularly supposed to be
HIS LITTLE MISTAKE.
INEBRIATED DUTCHMAN (arrested, in a conciliatory tone) : “LONG LIFE FER DOT
POPE!”
CONSTABLE MORIARTY (with suppressed ferocity) : “THOT’S TIN DAYS EXTHRY
F’R YEZ. ME BYE. IT'S AN ORANGEMAN YE’RE TALKIN’ TO!”
solid gold, were simply silver gilt, electroplated
by a well-known London firm.
How fat the official assignees in insolvency
are all becoming !
Kenneth Mackay has raised a troop of 50
horse at Wallendbeen (N.S.W.), and offered it for
the service of his bleeding country.
The lately-deceased Dr. W. H. Campbell,
of Melbourne, was from' one point of view a
perfect treasure as a J.P. He was the most
benevolent beak on record. Instead of “ running
’em in,” as the common ruck of justices do, he
used to set prisoners free. Whenever any poor
devil was locked up at an inopportune hour and
was lucky enough to have someone to go hail for
liim, the old doctor was always ready at any time
of the day or night to go to the watch-house and
unbar the dungeon cell.
A certain wealthy member of the N.S.W.
Parliament obtained re-election by a telegram.
Feeling in his constituency was very much against
him, and it seemed certain that his rival would
win by a big majority. So small did he consider
his prospects cjf re-election that he did not care to
visit the constituency at all. His party, however,
at the last moment' persuaded him to show up at
the nomination and soften his defeat as much as
possible. He then dispatched the following tele-
gram to his canvasser : “Tell the electors I will
be up to-morrow.” The canvasser carefully
added the words : “ Promise £5 on my be-
half.” By the time the candidate arrived
the majority of the electors were * rubbing
their hands in anticipation of a fat bribe.
When the coach reached the township, the can-
didate was astounded to find several hundred elec*
tors enthusiastically cheering him, and still more
astounded when he was elected by a big majority.
The same night the member left for the city in
total ignorance of the stratagem. Next day a
concourse of the “ free and independent ” applied
to the canvasser for their expenses, and they were
candidly informed of the trick, of which the mem-
ber was perfectly innocent. A riot was averted
? . the canvasser inviting them to tie* nearest
whisk) ’"'ffi
POLITICAL
POINTS
There are 354,020 people in Queensland.
Parkes “ has a stake in the country.”
Yes, through her heart.
The people of N.S.W. spent in drink in
1880, £4 14s. 6fd. per head.
Griffith suffers from insomnia. He must
be anxious to have Parliament meet again.
The Irish National League and Parnell
have quarrelled over the latter’s disavowal of the
“ Plan of Campaign.”
Now for the Celestial gunboats ! At a
meeting of Chinese in Brisbane it was decided to
cable to Peking asking for protection.
Holy Thursday was the day selected for
the banquet tendered to Thomas Bent, Esq.,
M.P., at Melbourne. How very appropriate !
“ L.W.” writes to The Bulletin asking :
“ Is it a fact that any officer of the N.S.W. Anti-
Chinese league holds an interest in premises used
by Chinese for the purpose of gambling? ”
Assistance has been granted to the guar-
dians of the Isle of Tlianet (Eng.), so that they
may send their paupers as emigrants to the colo-
nies. Australia is prepared to take as many able-
bodied, strong, and healthy Europeans as Europe
likes to send her; but she demands protection
against the world to enable her to employ them.
Rev. Kavanagh (R. 0.), at a meeting of St.
Patrick’s Society, Melbourne, has affirmed the
desirableness of introducing the cloture into the
Australian Houses. Houses of worship, we pre-
sume.
N.Z. Parliament is to sit during the day
in future. Should the hon. member persist in
making a night' of it he will have to make some
other excuse than “ protracted sitting, m’ dearsh.
Hie ! ”
Dilke, in the Fortnightly, says there is a
probability of Russia or France attacking England.
He points to the fact that both countries are build-
ing many large and fast cruisers to cripple British
trade in war-time.
Brassey advises that with Home Rule a
proprietary of peasant freeholders should be es-
tablished in Ireland., He is shrewd enough to
perceive that any measure like Land Nationalisa-
tion would thereby become impossible.
Premier Parkes says it is perfectly treason-
able to hand over the control of the public lands
to a non-political Court, but it is perfectly reason-
able to allow the public railways to be managed
by a non-political Board of Commissioners.
~ The Wagga,, Express (N.S.W.) begins a
leader “Sir Henry Parkes is again credited
with”— r That’s as Jar as we read. All our
time has Wen taken up since in speculating on the
unalloyed ve -dancy of the average Australian.
If Papal infallibility is still the creed of
the R.C. Church, Cardinal Moran in an apos-
tate, for His Emm -nee has said that the people of
Ireland would he (justified in disregarding the
edict of the Holy See in re Home Rule. Whirroo !
Goschen’s extra wine-duty of ss. a dozen
is likely to work an ’’entire revolution in cheap
qualities. Hitherto the low-priced clarets, which
are not really French wines at all, but Spanish,
have been bottled in France, and sent over to
England ; in future the greater portion will he
sent in casks, to avoid the new impost. This
means the transference of the bottling trade from
France to England.
Mudgee Haynes, who eternally tries to
make out that the N S.W. Opposition are all
Roman Catholics and whisky-sellers, made a good
joke the other night:—“He pointed to Pope
Hennessy, who was surely a man the Opposition
would accept as a guide.”
Listen, Australians. Professor Blackie
recently told an audience that “if they did not
take care Scotland would die—if their lassies went
and lived in London, and their boys were sent to
study at Oxford and Harrow, and came back and
sneered at Jenny Geddes. ”
The Swiss Government is making arrange-
ments to buy up all the local private railway com-
panies, and work the lines on account of the
Confederation. When will the English and
American people insist upon the State bursting up
their huge railway monopolies ? w |
Says David Buchanan, the newly-elected
M.P. of N.S.W.: —“When I stalk up to the left of
the Speaker, Premier Parkes will shake in his
shoes and his blood will curdle in his veins.” But
Parkes’ blood won’t curdle. It doesn’t contain
enough of the milk of human kindness.
Fifty years ago, the celebrated Chinese
traveller, Abbe M. Hue, wrote : “ The Chinese,
in almost all the wars they have waged, have been
worsted, but they are ever successful in negotia-
tions. ” There is more danger to us in one Lew ta
Jen dispatch than in a whole battalion of yellow-
men.
Describing the pedigree of the Land Bill
introduced by the N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
M'Elhone, M.P,, declared that “nine-tenths of
the Bill are taken from the present Act, and the
other tenth has been begotten in hell, and fathered
by the devil.” This ought to be just the thing to
suit the lawyers.
Interviewed in Adelaide, re the Chinese
question, Cardinal Moran said : “The Chinese in
Australia are of a low tribe, the scum of the lowest
classes. But,” he added, pensively, “only the
idle, worthless men object to them.” After this,
Australians are justified in accepting his Emi-
nence’s insults as compliments.
The Hungarian patriot, Koloman Ghyczy,
who died not long ago, was the best public
financier _ that Hungary ever possessed ; yet his
ancestor in the ninth century was a mere maraud-
ing Chinaman, who, urged by hunger and earth-
lust, invaded Europe in the wake of the Ugrian
exodus. The English words, “ ogre” and “ ugly”
are derived from this ancient European name for
the first Chinamen.
Would not an expurgation from Hansard
on the motion of a member of the House definitely
constitute that publication an official one, and not,
as the N.S.W. Speaker ruled the other night, an
unofficial one ? The Assembly has no more power
to mutilate an unofficial publication which confines
itself within the limits of the law than it has to
knock whole chapters out of the histories of the
old Hebrew kings, and either Mr. O’Sullivan’s •
speech must remain on record or the Speaker must
be tacitly written down an ass.
Mr. Purves, Q.C., declares that, as presi-
dent of the Australian Natives’ Association, he
must have a free hand and not he bound down to
regard the opinions of every one of the 10,000
members in the different branches. Touching on
the accusations of disloyalty made against him in
the press, he complained bitterly of misrepresenta-
tion and suppression by various journals. In con-
clusion, he contended that the future of Australia
lay with the association. “The different national
bodies in N.S. Wales, in Queensland and in S.A.
were identically the same institution, because they
were all working for the same end—for the best
interests of a country named Australia y and a
people named Australians.”
Galignani thus translates two of the most
powerful verses which M. Coppee has addressed
to the Emperor Frederick on the question whether
Alsace and Lorraine shall continue part of the
German Empire :
“ For ever 1 No ! be battle first arrayed !
On both sides Cast the gun and forge the blade !
Blow up the fires anew 1
What though in battle meet five million men '!
Germans and French in death-grip locked ? What then
Millions ! ’tis far too few 1
This time be war fought to the hitter end.
Our last man to the slaughter we must send,
Eat our last loaf of bread ;
France or the Empire sink in blood and fire,
The victor, too, perchance, himself expire,
Beside his brother dead.”
That Parkes is a tyrant is too well known
to require demonstration; he has also been ac-
cused time and again of being a protectionist.
This he denies, but he admitted it by inference the
other night when he declared that “no protec-
tionist can be a Liberal or a Democrat or in favor
of his fellow-men, because the protectionist doc-
trine is identified with tyranny.” That’s it;
Parkes shuts up the hotels at eleven o’clock;
declares it a sin to sell a newspaper on Sunday ;
slams the doors of the temple of science in the
faces of the multitude and drives a Proctor back
to his home because it is the Sawbath. Parkes is
not a Liberal; he is not a Democrat; he is not
favourable to his fellow-men ; and he is a tyrant.
According to the Premier’s logic this is proof of
his being a protectionist. Ergo ! etc.
A. G. Taylor, who, but a year or so ago,
held his own so ably before the distinguished
lawyers of the English Privy Council, is now, we
are sorry to hear, in very bad health indeed.
This is ' a loss to Australia, inasmuch as Mr.
Taylor is one of her native-born, a self-taught
and not a manufactured man, a ready and
fluent speaker, an expert debater, a keen and
fearless critic and analyser, and the possessor
of a more exact knowledge regarding Parlia-
mentary procedure and constitutional law than
any other man in the colony. He has had to
resign his position as Examiner of Patents
because lie had got into a low, nervous con-
dition, and the Press is busy bruiting about that
he is now done for and played out. The truth is,
A.G. should never have been put into such a
position as Examiner of Patents. He was the
square peg in the round hole, and there was no
room for his superfluous corners. His failure as
an official of the Civil Service is not at all surpris-
ing. He never possessed that temperamental
adaptability and docile submission to red-tape
drudgery which enables some men of the meanest
capabilities to successfully fill high positions of a
routine character. A. G. was a brilliant man as
much out of his element in a public office as Mar-
cus Clarke in a banking establishment. ‘ ‘ Mudgee ”
was a born fighter, both with tongue and pen, and
we hope, as soon as he has recovered from his
present ill-health, to hear of him again both in
Parliament and on the Press, slashing away as of
yore, supporting no party, and saying the awk-
ward thing at the awkward time. People are too
apt to estimate a man by his small failings, and
not hv his great abilities,


[?]


Law versus Despotism.
Lo Pak, the bone of Contention.


The burning question in the colonies just now is the
Chinese one, and the impression is widespread that Johnny
must go. They may go, but the china-men (Bray Bros'.)
mean to stop here and supply the wants of small and
great, rich and poor, with the best styles of glass and
china at prices that will suit everybody. Location, 402
and 404 George-street.*
0 1 IB A D 13 IT is an inflammation of the mucous
a J. il it Jii ii membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless cured will destroy every faculty and function
of its victim. Cataimuibakk is an mfallible cure. Sold
by Washington Soul ana ail chemists. FuH particulars
from F, M. CU.kmknts Newtown, x? g /yy
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It i 8 made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
Vo* finality Is exceptionally (food, and the price very low:*
H. PAL
AND CO., LIMIT®* 1
Established 1853.
Are as usual
|N e
isual showing th o ,
best assorted stock o |jgJIW
PIANOS, ORGANS, w
Musical lnstrui®* ,, 1 5,V
Which they are selling at e*trei» 0
for cash, or W 0»
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT
INSPECTION RESPECTFULL*
th 0 ,a
Special attention Is called 50 fe {iaE®
EXCEPTIONALLY flrst-class a» a
ments: —
mil and LECHtHT®,
The Wonderful VIETQR
t oN^ P
THE BEAUTIFUL
sste7 a Co,
New and Improved models of 1 jj
just received, also an im® 0 jj)o giO
meat of new and popular
Better Value cann°*
Obtains E' sC * 1
Hustrated catalogues mailed on
enquirers a e requested to f?i ve , g 0
the class of instrument require
receiving a suitable reply.
866 GEORGE STREET, three
ms a
>/
Sociely
An item which will be read with mue
satisfaction by many married men. The Victoria
Government intend erecting a female penitentiary
to cost £26,000.
* * *
“You acted as a sort of amicus curice in
this matter, did you not ? ” said a barrister to
shock-headed Divorce Court witness, the othe
day. “Oi did not,” replied the witness indig
nantly, “butOitowld thim it was a shame fu
thim to be livin’ loike brute bashtes, an’ they
ought t’ go back to their own lawful woife anc
husbind-—that’s fwhat Oi did.”
* *
The first rector of Cardinal Moran’s new
Ecclesiastical Seminary at Manly is to be his
relative, Monsignor Verdon, who is now Vice
Rector of the Irish College, Rome, as the Cardina
himself was formerly. Cardinal Cullen, years
ago, took Dr. Moran from the college at Rome to
act as his private secretary in Dublin, after his
other relative and secretary, Dr. Murray, was
made Bishop of Maitland in N.S.W. About the
same time Monsignor Verdon was made president
of Cardinal Cullen’s Diocesan Seminary at Dublin.
Thus the Cullens, Morans, Murrays, and Verdons
have been mixed up from time immemorial.
* * *
It is generally understood that the Lord
Chamberlain, or the Master of the Horse, or who-
ever he may be—we are rather weak upon the
empty distinctions of the effete Old World —is a
man of vast intelligence, whose intellect could fol-
low the footsteps of a cold bumble-bee up a pane
of glass if it were necessary to do so, and who
could track a cow even though she climbed a tree
to escape his observation, but a glance _at the re-
port of a recent reception by Her Gracious shows
that even this man of boundless research has been
“left.” Many years ago—we are now starting
this story at the beginning with a view to letting
the gilded cripple of Imperialism fall as soft as
possible—many years ago an innocent and beauti-
ful girl named Higson lived in the vicinity of Colo
Valley (N.S.W.), and said her prayers at her
sainted mother’s knee every night before being
put in her little bed. When she grew big she
bestowed the treasure of her affections on a
nautical officer named Flynn, and for a short while
they were happy. Then a mysterious dispensation
of Providence gave Flynn fits, and he died, and his
pretty widow, after gathering up the property,
and putting the silver spoons of the deceased m
her boots, returned to her childhood’s happy home.
A year later another gaudy Irishman carried her
off —this time a young squatter named M‘Tag-
gerty, and six months of expensive joyfulness ate
up M'Taggerty’s pastoral lease and freed him from
the encumbrance of earthly assets. At this stage
of his career it was ascertained that he had
horses belonging to him which were owned by
someone else, and he got out on bail. He became
afflicted with scarceness, and went somewhere else,
leaving the bail lamenting, and his grass-widow
shortly afterw'ards disowned him and married a
lucky digger who called himself Fitzclarence, but
whose countenance had common Mike printed
over it in that expressive language of pimples
which is the same all over the habitable globe.
The Fitzclarence family ran a hotel in Levuka
with great success for some years, but ultimately
some baleful influence or other descended on the
sinful Mike, and his wife left him in company with
the cash and barman—an ignominious wretch
named Jamieson whom she wedded shortly
afterwards. At Melbourne, however, Jamie-
son was smitten with a gnawing com-
plaint in the innards, and had to be
rushed round to the morgue, and while his soul
was wending its way in the immortal handcart to
the fields of bliss the bereaved one gave her hand
and her affections to a rich engineer and sailed
with him for England. She was. presented to her
Gracious Queen at a recent drawing-room and the
fatuous official who let her in never even thought
of asking her if she had any other husbands, and
if so why' she didn’t bring them along. Conse-
quently, when this paper reaches Her Majesty in
her luxurious location at the Tower of London
there will probably be a row, and the Lord Cham-
berlain will get one on the ear from the Crown.
#
Rev. Mr. Inglis, the new minister of
Phillip-strcet Presbyterian Church, Sydney, has
had an incident in his life, which recalls the story
of Marie Antoinette. His hair turned grey in a
single night. A few years ago he was in a railway-
smash in Victoria —which would seem superfluous,
as he had been on crutches since childhood—and
next morning his flowing beard, which had been
as the raven’s wing, was steel-grey in colour.
Another little novelty from the Nooze :
PUBLIC NOTICE.—To Laundry Proprietors and
Others.—My wife, , being in the habit
of going out to work against my wish, and to the
entire neglect of her family and her domestic duties,
it is my intention to inforce my legal right, and
demand her earnings.— John Blank, street.
It isn’t often that a husband has cause to com-
plain of his wife for working against his wish ;
but that little hint about the forfeiture of her
earnings ought to make Mrs. J. B. sit up and see
the folly of her ways.
* * *
At Lithgow (N.S.W.) a baker was recently
fined for commencing work late on a Sunday
night. A few Sundays previously the telegraph-
operators at Bathurst were hard at work, the
greater part of the day, wiring to Sydney the
speeches made at Premier Parkes’ meeting on the
previous evening.
• # *
America has extended only the cold per-
spiration of indifference to the Earl of Arran,
instead of offering the clammy paw of fraternal
greeting which that nobleman looked for and was
surprised that it wasn’t there. His name,
“Arran,” was legibly inscribed on his baggage,
but the N.Y. Customs officer looked superciliously
at this hereditary designation, and said curtly
“ Are you Mr. Arran ?” The Earl staggered 18
times at this unlooked-for familiarity, but ulti
mately drew himself up several yards, and ac-
knowledged that he was the person aimer
at. “ VVhat’s your Christian name?” de
manded the official with the same unYar
nished freedom that he might use to
hen-thief. “That, sir,” said the nobleman, witl
crushing contempt, “is entirely unnecessary.’
“ Quite impossible to pass your baggage without
it, Mr. Arran,” answered the stony republican
dynamiter and bomb thrower. “ Must have it, or
you can’t have your goods.” “Do you mean to
say that you will forcibly detain my trawnks? 5
“Yes. Jes’ so. Precisely.” The peer looked
round for a place to faint on, but there were no
facilities provided, so he reluctantly and under
protest mentioned his twenty-two Christian
names, and also the nineteen places that he was
earl or some other elevated person of, and then he
walked into an unappreciative country and looked
round to see if anybody was going to hooray.
Nobody was.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Has it never struck you
that the order in which “Births, Marriages and
Deaths ” appear in the columns of our various
journals is somewhat opposed to “ Society’s ”
demands? Shouldn’t births come after mar-
riages?—A. Blemish.
* a
A policeman giving evidence against a
drunk before the Coonamble (N.S.W.) Police
Court was asked if he had not had a drink that
morning. “ No, lam a Good Templar,” he
replied. A smile of incredulity beamed on the
face of the “drunk ” as he enquired, “ And, pray,
how long have you been a Good Templar?”
“ Since lasht noight,” was the solemn reply.
The Earl of Carnarvon will relate his im-
pressions of the colonies to the Colonial Institute
MR J. BRUNTON STEPHENS:
A REPRESENTATIVE AUSTRALIAN POET.
in June. Let’s see! How many days was the
little Earl amongst us ?
* •
The following letter comes from a German
wine exporting firm, and is being freely circulated
among Australian merchants :
“ Your esteemed firm being mentioned to us as import-
ing large shipments of cheap champagne or sparkling
hock, we beg to address directly our offers to you. We
can highly recommend you our cheapest quality at 12s.
fid. net cash per dozen quarts (Saumur bottles, whioh are
smaller, can be delivered with a little reduction), packing
included, c.i.f., Rotterdam or Antwerp, which is sold
chiefly in your market. We beg to observe, moreover,
that you can have this wine made up with any brand you
wish. We shall bo pleased if you will feel inclined to
make a trial, and remain, dear sir, your truly, P.S.
—lf you require some other goods whioh you know to be
of Gennan origin, we are at your disposal.”
* * *
Good news for the tender sex—we, of
course, mean the men. A Bill is to be introduced
into the House of Commons which professes to
abolish the time-honoured but still abused right
of women, to wit, breach of promise actions.
A frantic unmarried mother left her babe
at the door of St. Francis’ R.C. Church, Mel-
bourne, one night a couple of weeks back. It was
promptly handed over to the law. Holy Church,
we suppose, draws the line at the widow’s mite.
* • *
His Holiness, Pope Leo, was unfortunate
in announcing his anti-Home Rule sentiments
prior to the taking up of the annual collection for
his benefit at Ballarat (Vic.). Had his sancti-
fied mightiness lain low a few days longer, the
congregation at St. Patrick’s would have panned
out about 50 ounces to the dish, as was their wont,
but now we expect Leo will be left without night-
caps in his old age, and forced to charge all pil-
grims, who desire to imprint a chaste salute on his
bass-toe, a small fee to defray the expense of -wear
and tear, in consideration of the diminution in his
income. For, though the presiding priest, ex-
plained before the panijwas sent round that Pope
Leo was not going on like a raging lion, and seek-
ing to knock the Nationalist cause into a cocked
hat, that he hadn’t piled a great, oblique, com-
plex “cuss ” on Irish independence, and squelched
the chicken of freedom with a pontificial bull —in
short, that it was ail a cablecram, the collection
did not show up with its old vigour; it looked,
from a distance, like the sweepings of a dry-goods
warehouse, and was calculated to impress the
ignorant with the idea that Peter’s pence are
brass buttons. The efforts of Holy Fathers to ex-
plain away His Holiness’s proclamation shows
that they fear it will be disastrous to Home rule.
The infallible one is now pretty sure himself that
he has made a mistake.
* * *
The great end and aim of British law is to
let the British peer fall soft, and even the mentally
crippled tax-gatherer regards him with a feelin’
’art. The Duke of Roxburgh’s mansion at Floors
cost £500,000, but it is valued for purposes of taxa-
tion at £350, which makes that noble peer feel
better. The castle of the Duke of Buccleuch is set
down at £300; the magnificent mansions of the
Marquises of Ailsa and Breadalbane at £450
between them, or about the price of one two-storey
brick shanty with a pigsty behind. The Duke of
Marlborough, whose residence of Blenheim House
costs £lOO,OOO per annum to keep up, pays £l6 17s.
6d. annually in taxes to his beloved country. The
Marquis of Salisbury, the Duke of Bedford, and
the Duke of Devonshire pay £ll6 3s. per year
among them, and the other peers are lifted up
gently in like manner. The entire House of Lords
pays about as much in assessments as the inhabi-
tants of a single tenth-rate London street, and if,
some day, the British Republic starts out to collect
the arrears, it is hard to say where the petrified
branch of the Legislature will go to.
* * *
At Belfast (Vic.) a recently-deceased cow, on
being post-mortem’d, yielded nearly seven pounds
of refuse crockery, door-knobs, old iron, and blue-
metal. She is supposed to have come by her
death through eating a piece of home-made cake.
The English bride who went back to
mamma because her luvin’, husband fell asleep in
the honeymoon railway-compartment, was a fair
average specimen of the sex. The writer knows a
sprightly lady (now married to her “second”)
who owns up to breaking off an engagement
because the unappreciative fellow snored all the
way through Box Tunnel, instead of enjoying the
sweets of half-an-hour’s total darkness, and The
Bulletin has told how the Marquis of Bute sat
asleep in the drawing-room on the evening of his
wedding until the Marchioness sent her maid to
inform him that my lady was afraid that he had
been taken queer. There are two special con-
veyances in which a young girl’s fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of squeeze—a first-class railway
compartment and a cab. The latter for choice,
perhaps. In Gilbert’s comedy, “Engaged,” the
hero learns that his pansy blossom has been seen
in one of Hansom’s patents with a male stranger.
He muses aloud, “And his arm round her waist —
something tells me it must have been round her
waist—in a cab l”
* * *
A Mr. Holt, late evangelist to the deaf
mutes of Victoria, told an annual meeting of the
H.M. Missionary Society that most of their commit.
tee said what they ought not to say. ,
of Melbourne in the chair was grea 7
So was everybody else who had ears 0 |
the deaf mutes looked on with a-redee . - oDa rj
smile and fondly imagined that their eX _
was preaching the Gospel. It was p
funny. 4
• * Hie W 1
The law’s ways are as queer as
delays. A little while ago, in Sydney, lad
Darley and brothers Windeyer and » t, for-
up before them an attorney for, as Ilf
nishing too comprehensive a bill ot . j ence i»
miserable attorney had to put hi to®
writing, and swear to its correctn •
jovial “Jack” Want, Q.C., whope
of vital importance in the case, w p«
stand at the Bar-table and have ajf lte <jt>J
chat with the Court, without his being
being asked to take his Bible oath. #
• H g ti’o?S
As an example of the ruling p bor ia
in death there comes a story fr°® j en d °*!
fashionable hairdresser who used
money—not gratis—and who on ..pdar d'
called in all his loans, and in one P ftebef
stance had the sovereigns counted ou
covering. The debtor being a ®o+nruin? o ®
£4OO had to run out and obtain it, 1 e xpir e '
just in time to see his watchful creui
* • rniilfif
Our old friend “ Tichbourne i® ti-
the front again. As his ticket-of- ? c iainaß
pired, he has commenced to agitate _ mg-ho^. 1
more. Miss Baring, of the great. m
has promised £lOO,OOO, and the I gubsd
cation and Magna Charta Society rr|S cag
£84,000 to carry on the legal warfar • 1
expected to be re-opened in Nov
Wagga (N.S.W.) people, among® pjjed
Claimant lived for many years, and r pia ■
matutinal chop, thoroughly believe m j aW y e rS
One thing, however, is certain, tn
again have a big feast. .
* * 'foj
'The clergyman is like unto the J^ r . n ejtjjj
must let him build and sit in T B ' Sc to bo§j,-
his own way else he will upend hi®® an d
you. The Sydney Morning mon^S
bourne Argus have for the last ttlT l men ’a Oft,
teeming with letters all about clergy g>
and all about Anglican clergy® e • k]’
(1) a correspondent said aC.B. c » e^er s, L
nounced “God ” wrongly—result r 9B d
Trouble in Synod about Prayer-b let tj
alterations —result, 9 letters. Ov pre s *® tiofl
about Bishop’s remarks, and a.b°u 0 j
Moore College—l 2 letters. Iu
unsettled yet) 19 letters about app
clergymen'.' #
* * i s
They determined to hold a t 0 gM #
Molong (N.S.W.) way recently, f r pr o
prize to the happy parent who c°u- APfL,
largest bona fide family in the “is ,7 ’ ’ m i»g 'Jm
by the name of Johnston carted 14 . B) »» J
branches—all beauties —to the ex bi .jjjjjg '%
admiring judges without any j the {lf
him the boss populator and P in ” *. ges* {Jj«
ticket in his buttonhole. The n ' teB t
encourager, however, entered a V rr ied ji i
ground that Johnston had been gU ]t c
and that his family was the unl A e^; r to>® e ?
two marriages, and that it wasn t * Ag
entered the matrimonial state omy b l Aui
Johnston should have been handicap? , a jjo Jj
only the offspring of one wife rccj-KO t $
if the judges didn’t entertain the P
be discouraging and—and—the J u °
were considering the, objection. uM,
.Dear Bulletin, —The
from a Collengullie correspondent b n try ’ $
you an idea of the state of the ° »
about Wagga :—“All land and sto t v , (
gnashing their teeth at the scurvV 1 ’ ye»* Kfi
playing them. The beginning ot . 0 f jjf>
every promise of an enormous supp J raj%ti
nearly all overstocked their land. a ll 'A#
fallen since Feb., and the grass, has ra sS' I
consequently there is little or so
if rain came now, the frost would m are )»> $
as to nip all the young grass. B v . 1 e ofld li Lst
everywhere, and although in
yet, have no milk whatever.
been born, the dams run off wlt rpheP
their offspring, and never return. &JKI
vigilant crow ‘picks out’ th e ' unf°
and other delicate portions of t gti'AA s*
newly-born.' Bad look-out f°, r t e. ,tf
cookies. The mice are a real 1’“” 3 $
much food as would feed a fly esca lj e g9
all cats are so fat as to be quite car
pendent.”— Oyster Johnnie.


Everybody says-and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits Patbnt Rollbb Floub is the
best in the market
[?]
1846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 23, 1886.
Iy Dear Moorabixda,— Lady Carington returned from
rfolk Island looking a trifle sunburnt and as gracious
ever. She wore a dark-blue serge, made with
.oose coat and white serge vest; brown hat, ornate
;h brown silk ribbon and cream flowers ; white “ com-
xion” fall, tan gloves, and dark-blue parasol—in
; same dress, in fact, as that in which she
; us. Ilis Excellency—also sunburnt, and with
never failing smile still in good working
ler—landed in a bright-blue necktie and a
>ell-topper,” and the Misses Carington (3) were
»ttily attired in white serge frocks, trimmed with deep
rids and sailor collars of dark-blue; gloves and hose
suite, and hats of brown straw, trimmed with brown
d cream ribbon. The simple people of Norfolk
and thought Lady Carington a perfect angel.
iey thought the Baron a perfect angel, too,
d made asses of themselves by 'taking the
rses out of his sledge and drawing it themselves. H.E,
e3ented the islanders with some cattle and poultry, and
rein his Excellency differed from his immediate prede-
ssor, who (I hear) took to Norfolk Island nothing but
Id manners and formal diction, and all the awful freeze
stiff offijjdom, but came aivay with several
ichins and a Brahma or two in his vice-regal valise !
>or Lord Augustus ! How the world does worship suc-
ss? I even find myself doing it sometimes. The story
>es that the trip has been, to Lord and Lady Carington,
hree weeks’ genealogical lecture.
“ Dorothy,” at Sydney Royal, was the same familiar
ush on Tuesday, and in such a crowded house it was
ird to comprehend individual toilettes, but the scene
ia very brilliant. A lemon : tulle full skirt with satin
idice en suite trimmed with flat folds of the tulle and
ystal-beaded trimming looked fresh. Two dark-haired
man-slayers” in a combination of white tulle, lace, and
tin with huge bouquets of natural roses and foliage at
ie corsage had arranged their hair very prettily with a
jt-werk of pearls. A white fur cloak had a decidedly
retie effect on a slight dark woman, andapretty brocaded
hite satin mantelet bordered with sw&nsdown worthily
ilf-concealed a somewhat suranvr get up of crimson
lush and ccffee lace. A handsome costume of black
ngled lace was startlingly relieved on the corsage by a
uster of vivid scarlet plumes, and another raven’s wing
ress had a bodice cut down to the waist-line, and then
lied in with white tulle which had all the effect of shock
rg tMcollett, but was withal as modest as could be. Such
pretty, poetical-looking child was there in electric blue
;jth flowing Bishop sleeve's—her long browm hair floating
ver her shoulders and a huge palm leaf fan in her hand,
n the second act of “ Dorothy,” Miss Stewart wears a
ovely old-fashioned gown ; a cream-lace petticoat and
ourt-train—coming from the shoulders—of amber satin ;
)odice en suite, w ith plumes and huge feather-fan, which
he manages to perfection ; diamonds flash everywhere,
rom the star at her throat to the buttons in her ears,
md “ Our Nellie”—as usual !—looks charming.
Truly, if girls want to marry, as seems to be their
nature, the speediest and surest plan is to don the
straight-up-and-down gown of the hospital-nurse and
commence to scrub out a not-over-clean w'ard, for yet
another hospital engagement is announced, this time be-
tween a young doctor and a delicitely-pretty girl who
soothes the aching brows and smoothes the fevered
pillows of patients In Sydney Infirmary. If she marries
him she will add another doctor to the family list, which
is studded with /Ejculapii. Her father was a doctor, her
brother is a medical student, her sister (who was also a
nurse) is married to a doctor, and now she herself is
engaged to one ! By the way, her worthy mamma, who
is now en route from London to be present at her daugh
ter’s wedding, married again, her second venture being a
scion of nobility-Irish nobility. Speaking of the aristo
cracy, there is a dissolute character in Brisbane who is
always doing the most dreadful things conceivable and
who is reputed to be the brother of a much-liked and
really able' colonial Governor.
Southern society will be interested to learn of the ap-
proaching marriage of Miss Evelyn Harris, of Brisbane,
and Mr. R. G. Casey, of Terrick Terrick. Miss Harris is
one of Brisbane’s fairest, and is a stately girl. “ Stately ’
<»irls are rather scarce. Many of them are only “ stalky.’-
” The prizes in connection with the Intercolonial tennis-
tournament were distributed in the presence of a frozen-
looking assemblage on the 12th inst., and proved to be
( , o id bangles of various styles—all seemingly without a
jewel of any kind. I caught myself murmuring, “The
play isn’t worth the candle,” but I suppose the glory
counts in !
The matinee musicaleat Huenerbein’s, on Monday after-
noon, was an artistic success, but I was very much disap-
pointed at Kowalski’s absence. His playing electrifies
me . However, we had Mdme. Summerhayes (Mrs.
Haslett), who was in a happy mood and seemed to play as
the birds sing, spontaneously. And Mr. Hallewell was
there singing “The Slave’s Dream ” to perfection.
Oddly enough the proceedings opened with a finale from
one of Mendelssohn’s trios for piano, violin, and ’cello.
The room was crowded wfith invited guests amongst
whom I noticed the faces of many who worship Euterpe
on every occasion that presents itself. Some rather too
ostentatiously, perhaps, as if there was personal merit in
being fond of a “ concord of sweet sound ! ”
At the last Queen’s Drawing Room a number of ladies wore
the-ir hair very high, and thefe seemed to be a disposition to
return to the upright loops, of hair set at the back of the
head in imitation of the style in vogue during the French
Empire period. The Emnire styles are coming to the
front. At the Drawing Rocm Lady Olivia Taylor wore an
Empire gown of silk and moire, the skirt plain, but
bordered at the hem with ostrich feathers tied with moire
r bbons. For the benefit, of those wdio don’t know let me
say what an “ Empire ” frock is: A straight skirt and high
I,rrow little bodice, skirt fulled on to bodice and trimmed
ith three frills or something narrow at the bottom. With
are worn no corsets, no bustle, and no heavy drag-
eights of any kind. Still I won’t predict that it will ever
'.ally come in, for it’s a style only suitable-for the young
ad slender and makes fat and forty a sight for Olympian
;ars. Fanny Davenport wears an Empire dress in “La
osca a fearful drama, in which everybody is murdered
ut the only person who ought to be, viz., the author.
In England, bridesmaids are going out of fashion. Who
ad the temerity to squelch them I don’t know, probably
bridegroom, for certainly bridesmaids cost that starohy,
etrifled-looking object a round sum. If the abolition of
ridesmaids extends out here gbls will be sorry. They
11 like to fill the pretty useless office which should be de-
cribed as a “ sinecure with pickings.”
Nearly everybody believes in that superstition about it
ieing unlucky to have a wedding procession crossed by a
uneral. At Parramatta, some time ago, as a bride:
.rid bridegroom were lovingly returning from
:hurch their carriage was stopped by a funeral
,nd—in a year the bride was dead. “ Super-
stition !” ’Tis a name to conjure by! The other
‘veiling I was in a Sydney confectioner’s when in came
wo pretty, giggling girls. One stood at the door and
giggled, and the other came up to the counter and
giggled. The alert shopman sprang forward and awaited
her order, but she merely laid a shilling on the counter
and laughed some more. He looked at the money and
then at her, but she still stood silent, until at length he
asked her what he could get for her? “ Oh, a shilling’s
worth of creams,” she said gushingly, “and, dear me,
I’ve been waiting for you to speak, for we’ve seen the new
moon—both at the same time ! And then it’s unlucky to
speak until you’re spoken to !” Then she vanished, and I
murmured, “ And this is the nineteenth century 1”
May I ask how long housewives are going to suffer and
be strong over the vexed question of the hired girl ? A
friend of mine, who wished to invite a countess from Con-
naught to sleep and eat and dress on her premises under the
thin disguise of a cook ar»d laundress, was, she tells me, sub-
HEART V. STOMACH
WIFE: “NOW, THIS IS THE THIRD TIME I’VE CAUGHT YOU IN THE
KITCHEN TALKING TO THE COOK.”
HUSBAND: “YES, I-I BELIEVE IT IS.”
WIFE: “WELL THE VERY NEXT TIME I CATCH YOU TALKING TO THE
COOK I'LL DISCHARGE HER-AND DO THE COOKING MYSELF.”
jeeted to the following questions from a fearful person in
crimson, who planted herself squarely in front of her, and
in a brogue you could serve up, asked: “Doyez keep much
company ? How many shirts does the masther wear ?
How many white petticoats do jez wear ? How many
pairs of shtockings do yez w'ear a wake ?” As my friend,
who literally cowered before her questioner, was tolerably
clean, the list of her underwear annoyed the frail exile
from the ould sod, who remarked, after a scornful refusal
to be engaged : “ You’re too clanc altogether. Oi wear
one pair of shtockings a wake !” Another friend of mine
tells me that her cook and laundress has for four months
spent ss. 6d. a fortnight out of her wages in buying a
crOamy cosmetic “ warranted to beautify and soften the
hands.” As the hands in question happen to take eight-
and-a-half in gloves there is quite a large area to be
beautified.
My Melbourne [correspondent writes The Australian
Artists’ Exhibition at the Grosvenor Gallery is a great
advance and shows that we have in our midst much dor-
mant talent. But—there is always a hut—when the
critic borrows a catalogue and walks around it is seen that
the chief defect of most of our artists is absolute lack of
imagination. One of the shining lights of the A.A.A. is a
little round man who talks Ruskin and in his leisure
hours paints commonplace pictures of artistic-looking
workmen or bushmen posing in fields of English grass
and alleged Australian trees. Another artist, who affects
eccentricity and has popular afternoon-teas for ladies,
seems to have bought a cargo of Indian red and used it
up for two paintings, one of w'hioh is certainly very pic-
turesque at a distance. One of the best pictures in the
collection is a poetic conception cf the North ind. The
artist shows in both of his efforts imagination as well as
much manual dexterity and a less tendency to the use of
the palette-knife than some of the others. All our
young students are disciples of the commonplace,
and to meet something which is imaginative in a
gallery full of sunsets, ugly girls posing in well-fur-
nished rooms, or highly-painted backgrounds, is indeed a
blessed experience. The North Wind is a ftercfe-looking
man surrounded by fire, and tearing madly along on a
wild-looking horse. The lurid reds, the strong browns
and oohres, make you wish for lager-beer or ice, although
ust now the weather is more suggestive of hot whisky
and lemon. The artist’l other picture i* a semi-nude
blonde, with about a hundredweight of fair hair, and is
evidently a conception of St. Anthony s temptation turned
the other way, and with a little more drapery—-about as
much as one sees on the busts of ladies in a modern ball-
room. I fear, dear Sappho, I shall shock readers of your
column, but I like to be as realistic about poetio ideas as
s your breezy self.
Connected with the skating craze that at present has
possession of our brains are many incidents well worth
illustrating— for example, as this : A man whom I
know, in a high condition of indignation, related to me
a few days ago that he visited a certain “ rink,” and one
of the first things to attract his attention on entering the
place was a nursegirl with a baby in her arms skimming
madly about on the rollers. “ Fancy a collision taking
place between the nurse and a 14st. learner ! ” exclaimed
my friend. Just fancy!
The amount of dignity assumed by a certain sporting-
man when he attends a theatrical performance (which
he often does), is calculated to abash even the mightiest
of our politicians. The modesty that prompts this gentle-
man to invariably occupy a private box, to face the
audience and flash his many diamonds at them, and to
give expression in a languid way to his approval of what-
ever his refined judgment points to as deserving of ap-
plause, is simply sublime in its intensity. By the way,
this is the person who, I am told, is often heard to de-
clare that Australia is not a place fit to live in. Existence
only, he says, is possible here. “If you wish to live as a
white man should,” he is alleged to declare, “ you must
leave for England at once.” Pity for us he ever left there !
Don’t you think so ?
It is known on the housetops how a certain skating-man
was chased, before his marriage, by Sydney’s fairest, who
each had matrimony in her eye, and when he was “ done
for ” '(as they said), some of these amiable creatures re-
solved to call upon the envied bride, to show her how
they pitied her, and to make her feel what a cat she was,
and how superior they were. So they called, and com-
menced the campaign with the nasty remark. Your
husband is looking so thin and harassed—gwite different
from how he used to look.’* “O, yes, have you noticed it ? *
said the bride, winningly. “ Poor fellow 1 1 think he frets
a little, perhaps. He’s very sensitive ” (confidentially),
“and I believe his conscience pricks him for having made
so many of you—l mean so many women—believe he
really intended to marry them.” A neat quid pro quo,
wasn’t it?
I hear that a certain well-known M.P. of N.S.W. took his
perky freckled son and heir to a phrenologist to have his
“bumps” examined previous to choosing a profession
for him. “ I wanter make him a lawyer,” said the M.P.
“ See if he’s good at argying.” The “ professor” felt the
bumpy red head, and replied cautiously: “Your son
would make a good lawyer—really first-class—he would
a l so ahem !—do very well indeed—l may gay do best, as
a horse-auctioneer ” The guardian of our Liberties re-
solved, however, to fly in the face of Providence and
phrenologv, and make Hilly a lawyer. And Hilly will
probably take bis bullet head to the Bar someday, whilst
men, whom Nature has dowered with legal ability, will
continue to knock down that noble animal, the horse, to
jV'xe highest bidder.
The Deutscher Jahrmarkt at Sydney Exhibition Build-
ing was opened on 19th inst. by Lady Carington in the
presence of the throng that always turns up when vice-
regality is on view. There were some nice gowns on the
dais. Her ladyship wore an elegant dress of cream
watered satin made with a waterfall and trimmed with
bows and ends of black watered ribbon. Black bonnet of
passementerie, complexion-fall, gloves and parasol of
cream, and a cluster of saffron roses and foliage at her
bodice. Mrs. (Admiral) Fairfax, brown silk ornate with
brown embossed velvet, visite of black velvet and
passementerie, bonnet adorned with shaded ribbon
and dark green quills; Miss Dundas, violet velvet and
violet velvet bonnet with violet and lavender plumes whioh
made her pretty fair hair look more golden. Miss Hoff-
nung, an uncommon gown of white honeycomb cloth
trimmed with fir, dark brown velvet “ picture” hat with
quantities of brown feathers billowing over one another.
Lady Hay was also on the dais, in black, wuth a yellow
flower in her bonnet. After Lady Carington had declared
the fair open—first in German, then in English—one of
the stallholders on the dais, in a tremulous soprano, sang
a verse of “ God Save the Queen,” the band taking up th®
complaint as the party left the platform. Lady Carington
‘ did” the fair on the arm of Imperial Consul Pelldrum,
visiting and purchasing at every stall, to the absolute de-
lirium of the fancifully-attired sellers, who nearly broke
their necks to serve her. Lord Carington followed w ith
Mrs. Fairfax, and little Miss Wiesener brought up the
cortege, carrying the immense bouquet presented to Lady
Carington. The stalls were very complete, and the
quaint dresses of the stallholders looked, in most in-
stances, quite charming. “ Burgomaster's Daughter ’—a
get-up of crimson and gold—was warranted to kill at 15
paces, while “Burgomaster's Wife” was rigid in its cor-
rectness of detail. Many of the sellers had largely invoked
the aid of rouge and the powder-puff, sometimes with
startling effect.
Red ribbons around our necks are certainly de rigueur
just now for evening wear, but what do you think hap-
pened over one of these ribbons the other evening at one
of the theatres ? A woman w hose throat was encircled
by a red ribbon felt her neck swelling with the heat of the
house. Obvious consequence, the ribbon became too tight,
and its wearer put her fingers underneath and tugged
to ease it somewhat. Quite the simplest thing
in life, but suddenly a short sighted woman close by
gave a gasp and swooned. Upon being brought to she
vouchsafed the following explanation “Oh it was too
horrible ! I saw a woman with a great amount of white
neck showing sawing at her throat, and there was a dis-
tinct red mark where her fingers were ! I thought she
“ wa s hacking at herself.” What a fearful illusion it must
have been ! No wonder she fainted.
It is related that a certain Now Zealand newspaper had
a lady contributor—that is one part of the story. The
other part of it is that they hud a horribly malignant
reporter attached to the staff, and one day this contempti-
ble object was employing itself with looking through
“ the file,” and saw in one of the back numbers, “ A Visit
to a Bacon and Cheese Establishment,” by “Angelina”—
the name of the lady contributor. With a malicious smile,
underneath the title, “ A 1 isit to a Bacon and Cheese
Establishment,” he added in pencil, “ With a Van.”
The wedding of Miss Ada Joseph, of Maharatta Station
Monaro, to Mr. Nathan, of Nathan and Co., is to take
place early in July.
A fashionable and wealthy wadding will happen on the
29th inst. at St. Andrew's Cathedral, the high contracting
parties being both w ell-known in Sj dney society.
By the way, do you notice that Sydney’s stout dowagers
are never to be seen on foot ? Providence tempers the
wund to the shorn lamb, and apparently never allows a
"'Oman to grow fat till she has a carriage to ride in.
I never envy the fat women who drive in carriages, any
more than I envy the paralytic in his Bath-chair.—
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.
Dear Bulletin, —My sole object in writing
to the Sydney Morning Herald anent the
Chinese question, was to publish, per medium of
the most conservative organ in Australia, the fact
that the Chinese labour trade is carried on by
British merchants, and tp dispel the erroneotis
common belief that the Chinese can or do emigrate
as free agents like the populations of Europe. I
am in the course of reading and partly in trans-
lating for the Journal of the Bankers’ Insti-
tute some comprehensive scientific French works
on China for the last century—strange to sta'e,
the only ones apparently existent—fully convinced
from these sources and others that the spreading
of the Chinese element over the Australian conti-
nent, and the gradual population of our empty
area by Chows, mean nothing more or less than
the incorporation of this continent with the
Chinese Empire. Yours, Frank Clifton.
The English financial journals still moan
at intervals over the irredeemable depravity of
sundry South American republics which borrowed
money at different times from the beloved mother
land, and didn't pay either the interest or the
principal, and among these little brigand States,
which are lost to all sense of commercial honour,
Paraguay is conspicuous. Somewhere about 1872
that guileless commonwealth issued bonds for
£3,000,000 for the construction of railways and the
promotion of emigration, and appointed agents in
T.ondon who were to send out some 500 farmers for
the purpose of establishing agricultural settle-
ments. Of the loan, however, £2,820,000 was an-
nexed by English banks, brokers, and financial
hawks of various degrees of ignominy, and
Paraguay received £lBO,OOO in cash in return for a
liability of £3,000,000—a resultb which was
barely sufficient to pay one year’s interest on the
imaginary debt. Close behind this lordly remit-
tance came four shiploads of broken down book-
makers, aged umbrella-menders, dock-labourers,
sneak-thieves, dead beats, insolvent pigs’-trotter-
merchants, bowled-out receivers of stolen pro-
perty, chimney-sweeps, chicken-stealers, driink-
ards, pickpockets, and miscellaneous cockneys of
all varieties of lameness, senile decay, and infamy
these were the “farmers” for whom Paraguay
had paid, in advance, an extravagant sum per
head, and this last straw broke the back of the
patient Republic. Most of the miserable
fragment of the loan was spent in -feed-
ing this broken-backed contingent from the
slums, and in sending them back to
their hereditary gutters, and then, while English
philanthropists were agitating about the hideous
treatment of British farmers in South America
Paraguay filed her national schedule, and went
broke. During the fifteen years which hate
elapsed since the disgusted Tndo Spanish com-
monwealth perpetrated this fatal speculation, a
lot of pressure has been brought to bear on succes-
sive British Governments to induce them to throw
bombs into Paraguay as a means of inducing her
to pay up, and various emissaries have gone out to
express the horror of the British nation at the way
the unprincipled foreigners were carrying on.
These efforts, we learn, have at last been crowned
with success, and Paraguay has handed over some
3,000,000 acres of her best lands to settle the
claims against her. One or two hoary dog-fanciers
and a few stray burglars still remain in the Re-
public to tell of the blessings of British ci vilisation
which were conferred on that benighted land in
1872, and earn a precarious living by embezzling
clothes out of back-yard-, but otherwise Paraguay
is still in the bond of sin and the gall of iniquity
and presents a noble field for missionary enter-
prise on the part of those whom the French have
shuntdd from the South Seas,


Something New in Sewing Machines.
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT?
THE restless march of invention has enabled u
to bring before the public improvements
immense value, to some short account of which w
beg your attention for a few moments. Our callin
js to relieve the home-mother of all that may wear]
her in sewing, and to make the same throughout,
pleasure. That we have during the last sever
years succeeded in so doing, scores of thousand
will testify. And to-day we are supplying
machine whose range of work is absolutely com
plete, transcending the hopes and dreams of years
The construction and form are such as to place i
altogether above and beyond competition, for the
truth of which assertions, as of the following, we
humbly request that your own eyes may be the
judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTONS
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this workl.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALE PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
a the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
tc the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a heVring-bone stitch for
blankets, woollens, or other materials; you may
do over-casting or top-sewing—never before pos-
sible with Sewing Machines —as fast as you can
feed the work. And, above all, you can make
single barred or double barred button holes and
eyelet holes with the most marvellous precision
and perfection. Herein, the fingers of the
practised seamstress cannot with the greatest ex-
penditure of time and labour, produce work of
similar quality And remember, the Machine-
made button hole, in addition to its beauty,
is inherently far superior, for each stitch
is Locked. Button holes which ought to
embellish a garment, are often only a disfigure-
ment. Look at our samples and judge the effect
of fine work for yourself. By all means hav
good work instead of bad, especially when yoi
can make six perfect Button Holes while yoi
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it—we wil
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A grea
desideratum with ladies has been he raising o'
the arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods
to be sewn freely to pass underneath. This hac
to be accomplished without increasing the weight
of the machine. In fact, the Beale runs with
wonderful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent
all clicking sounds having been obviated. As is
well known, a good test of the finish of any
mechanism is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared an
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL-PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and hey.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. No,- the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
. SYDNEY.
Catalogues and Samples Free by Post.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE, we will
supply you with a Sewing Machine upon EASY
TIME-PAYMENT.
A RADICAL REFORM.
OH! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims th
housemother at her breakfast-table on th
Monday morning. Although the above absurc
adjective is not to be found m the dictionary, ye
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kep
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong tne agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing
day is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the - speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
mi
yym,
l&Z
a
[gH
m
SJlilw .ill
m
"7”
ps?;
S M
SS&
"P
iffy
f=f"n
1
HflKH !
-■••-?
'_■_
BEALE & COMPANY’S NEW PREMISES
AT
482, 484, 486 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BEALE & CO. have erected New Show Rooms, Offices and Warehouses, at Nos. 482, 484
and 486 George-street, Sydney, opposite Central Markets, and near to the Royal Arcade.
These are the loftiest commercial buildings in the city, and. can be seen from all parts of the
city and adjacent suburbs. The Show Rooms will be the largest and finest in the Southern
Hemisphere, for the due display of the splendid Hapsburg Pianos, Haydn Organs and Beale
Patent Sewing Machines.
All GOODS may be had upon EASY TOlE PAYMENT, or FOR CASH less
THREE SHILLINGS IN TIIE POUND.
PHOTOGRAPHS, PRICE LISTS SAMPLES TREE ST POST,
No matter where you live, we will supply you with a Piano, Organ, or Sewing Machine upon
Easy Time Payment.
Branches and Travellers throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,”
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boihng point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“boiling” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
I taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine ”
has to be rocked or swuDg round by main force,
ynly a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Baton t Washer can be used by a girl or lad of li
years.
u The two above-described “Steaming” anc
-Rooking ’’ Washers are those mostly before the
P u blic in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
;o the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
ully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
inly the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
vheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
angement or packing being wanted. The special
eversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
nd forwards, and a very small expenditure of
trength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
naming suds. In the process the clothes are
oated to and fro, up and down; currents and
ross-currents of water are formed which meet and
re forced through and through the fabric, carry-
lg away every particle of dirt and stain. The
nen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
lbbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess -which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused .by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of theJßeale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 George Steeet, Sydney.
Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation of a
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps-
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have togethei
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear, full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, the
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. 1 heseframesare square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
studs sustain the whole with absolute rigidity
That these precautions are necessary may be un
derstood from the fact that the tension of thf
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are rcsistec
and tuning is only required at long intervals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps
burg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole action is made adjustable anc
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, anc
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest c imposer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
the “ Crown of Thorns,” and many other noble composi
tions, handed us the following:—
, IT , , , _ ~ “ Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are ail
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally f consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KeLIERMAN wrote •
Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES
je declare avoir <st,e aussi eharmee que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUGHER unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REYfARQ(TABLES. Je les
r&soramande en toute sincerity. ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney ”0
Juin, 1883.”
CERTIFICATE.
I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed! ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire cf
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia the
composer of “ Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recoin
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano oil
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburn- of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.” “
The AUSTRALIAN.
The voices blended beautifully wfith the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualifies under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide
J‘ Th ™? apsburg Pianos ar e all of excelleiit workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkablv sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
1 Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
‘Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
lave been sold. The best only is the cheapest. 'The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (w r hieh insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAY DN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 George-street, Sydney.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will supply you
with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium upon EASY TIME
PAYMENTS. 6


Business Announcements.
M E R V 0 U S D E B T LIT Y.
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cure for Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess —
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
H
§==
-wTsaat.
ifta
£iS i&l.
i
.fv t"
w - v'
*v
mmm
s*-
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark—“ The Greenwich Observatory.”
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and is the best of
all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING,
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion ahd Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Amusements.
AIE T Y
\JT Lessee
SUBLESSEES
THEATRE.
Mr. Laurence Foley.
RAINFORD, BARRY
and HERBERT.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING
During the present week, the great military drama,
CURRENT CASH!
CURRENT CASH!
Already the talk of the town, and acknowledged
to be the most novel, amusing and absorbingly
interesting play seen in Sydney for years.
House Crammed Nightly !
The people of Sydney are clamouring aloud for the
exclusion of the Chinese and for
CURRENT CASH!
The people’s wish to us is law, their welfare our
particular care; therefore, enjoy hearty, healthy
laughter which prolongs life, and witness
CURRENT CASH!
Prices
35., 25., Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.30 ; Carriages 10.45.
THIS (WEDNESDAY) EVENING at 8 o’clock,
tom taylor’s irish historical play,
CLANCARTHY. CALNCARTHY.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal,
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.20.
TO-NIGHT (WEDNESDAY),
AND EVERY EVENING,
THE MOST CHARMING COMEDY OPERA,
DOROTHY DOROTHY DOROTHY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s
R
OYAL
STANDARD
Bth
WEEK.
PRANK SMITH’S
BURLESQUE COMPANY.
THEATRE
Bth
WEEK.
TO-NIGHT, WEDNESDAY, TO-NIGHT.
CAMARALZAMAN
CAMARALZAMAN.
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
QRIT
ERI O N
THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
LAST 2 WEEKS
of the
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT COMEDY
SEASON.
ANOTHER GIGANTIC SUCCESS.
ENTHUSIASTIC and UNQUALIFIED
SUCCESS OF
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
LAST 3 NIGHTS
LAST 3 NIGHTS
of the
SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
Business Manager
Mr. Joe Davis.
SY D N E
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. _ The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
Mr. R. G. AGINTON, the acknowledged
Champion Fancy and Artistic Roller Skater of the
World, who has just returned from a trip round
the world, has been engaged at an enormous ex-
pense, and will give exhibitions of his wonderful
skill on the rollers every evening for a few weeks
at 9 p.m. The Splendid BRASS BAND of the
Naval Artillery wi 1 render Choice Selections every
afternoon and evening,
’Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
Amusements.
Alhambra music hall,
Georgestreet, Haymarkeb.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
READ ON OUR NEW FOUNTAIN OF FUN
READ ON OUR NEW FOUNTAIN OF FUN
READ ON OUR NEW FOUNTAIN' OF 1 FUN.
OUR 3rd YEAR triumphantly Closing on the
most successful Minstrel and Variety Entertain-
ment in the Southern Hemisphere. Uuparalleled
in all our Annals. Look Out for our NEW ERA.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs. 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
¥TEW OPERA HOUSE.
J3I Lessee and Manager... Mr. E. E. Hiscocks.
Acting Manager Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
Electric and Pronounced Success of HARRY
RICKARDS and his NEW COMEDY AND
SPECIALTY COMPANY. Sole Proprietor and
Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards. Each and every
Artist received Nightly with Immense Enthusiasm,
stamping the Entertainment with Trade Mark of
SUCCESS. Every Evening at the Opera. Note
Prices of Admission : —Dress Circle, 35.; Stalls,
25.; Pit, Is.
IMPORTANT NOTICE. —On Saturday Next,
May 26th, at 2.30, a MATINEE PERFORM-
ANCE will be given especially for Schools and
Children. Admission to all parts of the House :
Adults, Is; Children, SIXPENCE.
The MARIONETTS. The MUSICAL
MARVEL. The JUGLAIRE. The Screaming
Monkey Farce. The Lady Skipping-Rope Dancers.
Ashfield recreation grounds
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
——
Coming Eventsi
Thursday, May 24,
MANCHESTER UNITY OF ODDFELLOWS FETE.
SPORTS! SPORTS ! SPORTS!
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink.
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
T
HEATRE ROYAL, KEMPSEY.
This commodious and well-fitted place of amuse-
ment, replete with all modem improvements and
adjoining the Royal Hotel, is now completed.
Dramatic and other professional companies can
be treated with on most liberal terms.
CARL BASCHE,
Proprietor.
TTTr,Tni? T A N ARTTSTS’
V
ICTORIAN ARTISTS’ SOCIETY.
Exhibition of PAINTINGS in the Grosvenor
Gallery, Public Library Buildings, Melbourne.
Entrance from Little Lonsdale-street, E.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Admission, Is. Catalogues, Is.
B
OTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest I
Under the Conduotorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH. Direotor.
Hotelfc
ttULHENO&N HOTEL., Manly.
■XECEI eDEiXO-ECTTOISr OB’ ssr-S-W..
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eto., are
served on the fhortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
TTlctoxia,.
THfc CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, Is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Cleu. E. SfiiMj Si Et.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, 1b the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer Ib
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Publlo Baths,
Alcock's Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. 1 I. Sjiarim,
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements.
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“ PLUM
RAZOB,”
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Nevet
requires grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. Price, 10/6 each. Send P.O. Order.
One of the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6 ; a Tin of the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
Transparent Shaving Soap, ora Jar of Non-irritant Shaving Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
suit the climate, 1/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6; Bottle of Bay
Rhum or Yaddo Water for use on the face after shaving, 3/6.
CK-A-XG- aaa.dL iIZTKSIT,
FoW Hiir-irdag Saloon, SBO lioin-M Brickfieli Sill, Sjdtej,
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
'oyMte and Bound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvms, and delight
Sally fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powder* and add waibati
tiling daily
mt Fearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherche Ingredients of the Oriental
l&erbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserve*
She teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives a
{pleasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-s6ptic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise a
Mghly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
pastes can possibly be as efficacious forpolishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pare gne
iron-gritty toott powder: such ROWLANDS’ OBONTC;,h*s always proved Itself
No other'Odonto is gennta®.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL !s i mm sold la a golden solow tm
2»lr and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneous
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for RQWIASnEir
articles, of to. Hatton (Harden,, lUradon, and avoid roßJritess emfi sasafeioia® JMiteSsn*.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Eros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
FOWL CHOLERA & RABBIT DISEASES.
TO POULTERERS AND OTHERS.
rpHE Royal Commission op Inquiry into Schemes for the Extermination op
Rabbits in Australasia are desirous of obtaining, by purchase, Fowls suffering
from CHICKEN CHOLERA. Communications should in the first instance be addressed
to the Secretary of the Commission, Colonial Secretary’s Office, Sydney.
The Commission also invite the fullest information from persons who have observed
rabbits in their neighbourhood dying off, as if from disease.
By Order of the Commission.
HUGH MAHON, Secretary.
LEAS PERRINS SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORC ESTERS HIRB
SAUGE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Le<& andPemni
have to. request that Purchasers see that thc Label Onevery boltlo
hears their Signature thus —*
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine. *
Ask for LEA and PERRINS* Saute, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle ahS
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse amt
Blackwell, London , &*c., 6rt. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wltoijet4« Agoatg: ItfWsyiQfiS, Joseph & Co-; Cohw* & CoT, Sydney-


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydne
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniun
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machinei
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mang
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you liv
we will supply you with our Manufactures upc
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
ttHE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAME]
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
l&t. The WIRES are of a very high quality, an
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverb*
rated by a sounding board of special construe
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of th
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds s
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
6th. They have consolidated Iron Frames of grea
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations o
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuninj
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the cas'
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible
by the substitution of bronze for other metals
th The outer cases are handsome in design, am
of durable and beautiful woods; they can b
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or ii
Ebony and Gold.
V !
rv
m
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH - ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
m
I
Seale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
Bubmit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
Bystem of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines thi
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Pos*.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484 and 48G George Stkef.t, Sydney.
Oh, My Bssckl
That lame back is caused by kidney disease.
Stop it at once by DR. bell’s (Kidney and Liver)
BITTERS.
Diarrhosa, Dysentery and Colic.— lt ought to be more
generally known throughout New South Wales that, Free-
man’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne is a specific for
these prevalent Colonial Maladies. In Melbourne, years
ago, Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired a very high reputa-
tion for arresting and curing these diseases. It is easy to
understand, therefore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now
regarded by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most inex-
perienced can administer it with perfect confidence. Free-
man’s Chlorodyne, if given when the earliest symptoms of
these maladies manifest themselves, at once arrests their
further progress. In Colic, Inflammation of the Bowe's,
and Pain of all binds, Freeman’s Chlorodyne acts like a
charm.—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist
upon having “Freeman’s” only, Reject substitutes as
they are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant."
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hockings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odoxto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists *
FATHER IS GETTING WELL.
My daughters say, “ How much better father is since
he used Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. He is getting
well after his long suffering from a disease declared incur-
able, and we are so glad, he used your Bitters.” A lady
of Rochester, N.Y. —“ Utica Herald.”
ANSWER THIS.
Did you ever know any person to be ill, without inaction
of the stomach, liver or kidneys, or did you ever know
one who was well when either was obstructed or inactive?
and did you ever know or hear of any case of the kind
that Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters would not cure ?
Ask your neighbor this same question.—“ Times.”
Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil with Hypo-
phosphites, acts both as food and medicine, It not only
gives flesh and strength by virtue of its own nutritious
properties, but creates an appetite for food that builds up
the wasted body. Read the following:—“ Scotts Emul-
sion is, in my opinion, an excellent and valuable com-
pound. I have given it to consumptive patients, and
have been delighted with the results obtained. It is
pleasant to the taste, and can be borne by the most
sensitive stomach.—E. A. Rodway, M.D., Butter-Knowle,
Darlington, England.” Any Chemist can supply it at
4s. 6d *
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Good News
Ought to be told, and it is good news that iir.
bell’s bitters has cured the worst of kidney
diseases, and can do it again.
i’HiA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ed
I^TDEITTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Business Announcements.
kdelios Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken tw
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for child'en.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quart ity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDIC A L GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Biiterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW'S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
mm
m
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
TUDY HE ALT II BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George HewetT, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DY'SPEPSIa, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEaNE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMP'.NY,
In Melbourne, the other day, Mr. Service
spoke of Sir Henry Parkes as being “strongly in
favour of Imperial Federation.” Parkes now
strenuously denies this. We have, however, read
an article empathically advocating a drawing closer
of the “bonds” in the May number of the Nine-
teenth Century for 1884, and it was signed
Henry Parkes, Premier Parkes has uo fixed
political principles. He is a shameless Oppor-
tunist, and has in turns supported almost every
cause under Heaven.
Two colonial citizens misunderstood each
other in a saw mill, last week, in the vicinity of
Maryborough (Q.), at a time when the saw was
going round. What they misunderstood each
“MASHED.”
other about is not yet known, as they have not
sufficiently recovered to explain, but each ex-
pressed a low opinion of the other close to the saw.
Then a wild whirl of arms and legs and bad lan-
guage and old hats ensued, and all the time the
old saw went steadily round and round. Next
the citizens fell over a bench, and one had all his
hair and the top half of his head sawn off, and the
other lost an ear, three fingers, part of his foot,
and a red woollen shirt. Kind, gentle, loving
hands took them home in a truck, and they are
now in bed.
Sir Thomas MTlwraith, after referring to
the financial aspect cf the Naval Forced Bill, said
in a recent speech
“ But there i« a higher view 7 tp regard the step towards
Federation which was made a few years ago. The
Federal Council has r.ot done a great ileal of work, j et it
might have resulted in the germ of a great nation, but
Federation has got the biggest blow it could get, because
the biggest thing a Federated Australia would have to do
would be to look after her ow T n defence. Outside
menaces—the Chinese or European States have very little
effect with me. When we have admitted a responsibility
and determined to defend ourselves w r e have a secure
feeling in the national life and defence of ourselves. This
is what I fight for—for a national life—and I do
not like to see Great Britain by her patronage
take away our nationality. I do not begrudge
the money for the Naval Defence Bill, but it will be much
better if we can run our own men and our own ships to
defend ourselves. And we can claim the right to get out
of a lot of dangers that we are brought into simply be-
cause England chooses to fight for the quarrels we have
nothing to do with. We have been accused of being a
Republican Party—l do not care for that. Hard names
do not break my bones. I have been a Democrat all my
life ; let people make the most of that, but I claim to be
at the head of an Australian party, an expounder of
Federation, to fight for ourselves, and look after our own
quarrels, not that I have the slightest expectation we
shall quarrel with Great Britain. Is it not a dismal thing
for us to be placed here, as by Great Britain, under the
degrading circumstances of being frightened to come for-
ward to help us ?”


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital
Paid-op and Guarantee Reserves
£1,000,000
£32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward*.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, tor 3 years 'j
£6 „ „ 12 months I
£5 „ i, 6 months (
£4 ~ i, 3 months J
Renewable or withdraw-
able on notice in
terms of Prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over term* of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
CRAIG &T AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 AND 682 George Street, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and Silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,,
Cutlery Perfumery, &e.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
V.
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING.
Is still the most popular Brand in the Market,
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG and AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s.,
145., p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American),flnelv flavored,
best value in the market £lb. pac" ets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in lib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Spkciality !
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
fRAIfi & AimN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 George - street, •
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.
THE KIDNEYS.
SYMPTOMS.
Pain In Loins
nigli Colored or
Colorless Irine
Incontinence
Fever in the Parts.
Thousands of
people have taken
bottle after bottle of
medicine, under the
impression that they
were suffering from
Bright’s Disease, or
some other Kidney
malady. A correct
diagnosis or examina-
tion, in nine cases out
of ten, would dem n-
strate the fact that the trouble lay in the Liver, the
Stomach or the Blood. This delusion is conse-
quent upon the varied, startling, or alarming ad-
vertisements bearing upon Kidney Disease, which,
in embracing the symptoms of Dyspepsia and
Liver and Blood complaints proper, are regarded
by thousands as proof positive that they, too,
have fallen victims to Bright’s Disease, or some
other forms of Kidney affections. In ninety-nine
cases out of every hundred, when you experience
the symptoms found at the head of this article,
you will find that Impure Blood, Dyspepsia, and
Biliousness are the fathers of the symptoms ; and
any remedy that will give tone and healthful
action to those organs will remove the last vestige
of Kidney Disease. In a large majority of cases
the Kidneys suffer purely from sympathy, as do
other organs. Purify the Blood, rouse the torpid
Liver to actioD, strengthen the Stomach, and
it will invariably disperse all traces of Kidney
Disease. It is a proven and substantial fact that,
with a healthy Stomach and Liver, no such thing
as Kidney Complaint was ever known, bell’s
bitters will relieve and cure you.
IDTCEEI FZEDI i El,
SYDHEV.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES
AND QUEENSLAND.
Home Items and Topics.
—“ All your own fault,
If you remain sick when you can get Dr.
Soule’s American hop bitters that never—Fail.
—The weakest woman, smallest child, and
sickest invalid can use Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters with safety and great good.
- Old men tottering around from Rheumatism,
kidney trouble, or any weakness will be made
almost new by using Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
£3T My wife and daughter were made healthy
by the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
and I recommend them to my i eople. Methodist
Clergyman,
Ask any good doctor if Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are not the best family medicine on earth !
Malarial fever. Ague and Biliousneis, will leave
every neighborhood as soon as Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters arrive.
“ My mother drove the paralysis and neuralgia
all out of her system with Dr, Soule’s Hop
Bitters.” Ed. Oswego Sun.
Keep the kidneys healthy with Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters and you need not fear
sickness. ”
—lce water is rendered harmless and more
refreshing and reviving with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters in each draught,
—The vigor of youth for the aged and infirm is
Dr. Soule’s Hop Bitters ! !
—“ At the change of life nothing equals Dr.
. Soule’s Hop Bitten to allay all troubles
( Incident thereto:
“ Thh best periodical for ladies to take monthly,
and from which they will receive the greatest
benefit is Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
—Mothers with siokly, fretful, nursing children,
will cure the children and benefit themselves by
taking Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters daily.
• —Thousands die annually from some form of
kidney disease that might have been prevented
by a timely use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
—lndigestion, weak stomaoh, irregularities of the
bowels, cannot exist When Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are used.
A timely • ‘ • use of Dr. Soule's Amerioan
Hop Bitters will keep a whole family
In robust health a year at a little cost.
—To produce real genuine sleeD and child-like repose
all night, take a little Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
on retiring.
t£BT None genuine Without ft bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.
}
UCHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OP ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
gla.otogrxapli.l(S S3eci~a.le3.tes.
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
— To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
38 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
lichtner & CO.
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—where there is no
organic disease, and nothing but ah inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claiih
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physiciah
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC an!)
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Peoplfe
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles ih
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. 11. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office nburs
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.tn. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Oleans^r
GOLD-WATER SO?#.
Trade Mark—" IMPERIAL*"
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Stoffekwpera
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co. Ltd.,
50 CLAREHOK-aTHKHn,
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to flbtify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leadihg Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGARETTES, alto FINEST SEANDS of CIGARS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices l
tar Note' this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“SESOSTRIS” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH J
tar By buying from us you will save at least
26 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
II BARRAGE STREET, S7DNE7 -
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD. BD. 6BD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintains Its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRTAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The nndersigned are preDared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLARSNCE-STREET.
GBD. G 3D.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
rpHOMAS BUCKLAND,
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
„ „ Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vlo.
Hotels.
GLOBE HOTEL p Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the'
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,.
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
IN.Q. brags of a Spanish donkey which is
ie sire of 13 mules. Most of them are in Parlia-
ient, and the rest are running newspapers in the
-riffith interest.
King, a gentleman of Turanian ex-
faction, is now suffering in a dungeon am»
entipedes and gophers, and in his sad, subdu u,
ireign way he says that things are no longer
all li. ’ Fat’s business lies at Palmerston, in
northern Australia, and in his employ toiled for
ft&ny years a humble sojourner named Shoo Fly—
ir some such name—who laboured patiently in the
lope of one day accumulating sufficient coin to
arry him back to the land where the bones of his
amt repose in holy dust. But Shoo Fly was
loomed to see that parental home nevermore. He
vas of a delicate structure and a hidden care
ireyed on his constitution underneath his
uothes, _ till at last he felt that his life was
indermined and that he had a summons to
jo nence. And one night Joss called him to
x>me to the bosom of Confucius—we use this
expression in its poetic sense, though if Confucius
ivas built on the same scale as his countrymen his
bosom wasn t much of a place for anybody to start
for—and he called Fat King and told him that he
was about to fly. Then Fat King hauled him out
of bed by his feet and ran him three miles into the
bush on a barrow, and left him there. Shoo Fly
remained in a damp spot for two days, at the end
of which time he was found by a “foreign devil”
policeman and removed to the hospital, where
he passed away after swearing to a picture of
a sea-serpent on a sheet of blotting paper, which,
being translated, contained a tremendous indict-
ment against Fat King. Fat deposed in return :
“ Sick man too muchee tlouble intilely. Him no
good. Him no dam use. Him heap die any-
whele-^-- ” At this point he rose to go home,
and he fairly screamed with amazement when he
heard it was a charge of manslaughter, and that
he would probably be hanged. A lavish offer to
turn “ Clistian ’’ was rejected and Fat King was
violently driven into a cold cell.
I Daniel Pie had his head broken by a fall
rom a horse when stockriding near Runnymede
Vic.) a couple of weeks ago. Daniel now prays
:or a crust like the pie at our boarding-house.
The Mcloou:no Wesle, ai.s l,;A~e secured a
iii vv stnsat on in the shape of a tan-coloured
L oup’.e Iroiii Tonga. The bronze-hued curios bang
the harmonium and sing hymns in half-caste
English, whilst a bilious elder rakes the audience
with a plate. They are the only Tongan prdperty
the Wesleyans have left.
The Maitland (N.S.W.) Mercury, the
dullest paper out of Sydney, observes :
“ Should it become necessary for Australian leaders,
in the prospect of a Chinese irruption which England has
failed to give any help to check, to counsel separation,
sucli counsel would be a counsel of despair. Indomitable
as the spirit of our lace is, our resistance must be over-
come at last by the ceaseless flow of our enemies, hike
Gulliver, we should be overcome by Lilliputians, because
the Lilliputians who would be our assailants would be
practically without count. That we would in extremity
fight to the death no one can doubt, and present to the
world a modern spectacle of heroic though hopeless
valor.”
We stop here to inform the Mercery that, China
is not joined on to Australia by land. Conspicuous
geologists and men who look through goggles at
disused bones and lumps of dirt have formed an
idea that the two countries were once attached,
but they aren’t so now. Consequently the China-
man may choke with rage on his own flowery
strand, if he likes, but ail the junks in the Em [lire
couldn't carry the army which is to overwhelm
Australia. This result as we have already pointed
oiit, is solely owing to China not being united to
Australia by land ; if it were it is hard to say
what would become of us. Similarly if all the
sharks in Australian Waters were to climb out on
land we would have a rough time of it, and we in-
vite the attention of the Mercury to this fact as
a matter which ought to be dealt with in a leading
article.


s usiness Announcement
N B
WT 0 N AND LAMB
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETM AKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
in
BEDDING MANUFACTURER*.
Show Rooms and Manufactory!
SPRING A O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
I ELF- AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
[ This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The abort
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
SOs.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES mail Woods. Immeue
variety of des gns also, elegantly finished
in Embioidery, Plush, &c. Newton 8c Lamb.
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of v&ri-
ous size?, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
e s, revolving portable triple
I ikstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outride Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partit'ons to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish ng ihe space when ' equired. Locks
automatically.. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced, admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
I
D
RAWING ROOM CABI-
NETS. ,
IiUT Inuii
Chippbndal* Dasiairs.
Nxwton k, Lin.
Large stock of pianofortes by the
Most Celebrated Makers.
Austrian bent-
wood
-FURNITURE.
A Vest Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new design*.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Li or ary or Bad-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
T>EDSTJ3ADS, all sites.
Nickel-plated and Blaok
and Brass. Great rariety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Nbwton k, Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pino Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washst&nds, from 12s. 6d,;
Chests of Drawers, from 403.; Wardrobes, from
SOs. ; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. j
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERER!
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Snow Rooms and Manuvactmt t
BT»nre * o'wnwu btuotbr.
If you want a suit of clothes, which, for fit,
style and finish, cannot be beaten, go to Leuschner
and Maguire, 72 King-street,*
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and saltwater baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
TATTERS ALL’S
VONSTEK CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event*
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
* Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
• News.” Address, “ TattersalTs," care
of George Adams, TattersalTs Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery j
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
K'r.r/r
y&n
They fit perfectly, and arc
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried.”
(Signed) Mane Roze.
THE
Y*N
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not spilt in the Seams
nor tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com-
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped ** Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116," in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies' Ontfltter*
Business Announcements.
RELIEF PRO* COUGH IK Til MIMES.
-♦
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUND.
Thamortcertain and speed v remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Hoarseness, and all Disorders of the Chest and
Lungs. It has proved itself the most successful prepara-
tion ever offered. The sale is increasing daily.
IT HAS A MOST PLEASANT TASTE.
In the nursery it is invaluable, as children are fond of
it Immediately it is taken Coughing ceases, rest-
lessness is gone, and Refreshing Sleep ensues.
No lady who has once tried it would ever afterwards be
without it. Prepared only by
A. HAYMAN & Co. (late of Neath),
16, Albemarle St., London, England.
Price Is. ljd., 2s. Od., 4s. 6d., & 11s. per bottle.
ff not in stock your Chemist mil procure it /
BRUNTO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edwabd Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Stbeet.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spenoeb-stbeet.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, whioh
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large publio-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS.
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
Hotels.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
i irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS PROPRIETOR,
TIRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
W N.S.W. First-class Family and Commercial
Intel. Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets
>7sry train. J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Tood Sample Rooms.
P~AL AOB HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
'■ CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)
/ 10NDUCTED on the same principle as the
\ J great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
irge Billiard Room.
Mces as follows 6s. per diem. All meals Is. ML
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSSKAVE HOUSE.
Corner of ™
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor,
HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
own, situated corner.of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor,
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel.
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Ivery comfort. Cellar stocked with best brand®
inly. Terms moderate. Mrs. Hetser, Proprietress.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
YORK HOTEL,
BROKEN HILL.
A. OLIVER - - - Proprietress;
The York Hotel affords all the comfort of a
Home: civility and cleanliness, combined with'
Moderate Charges, being a speciality.
The Hotel is centrally situated for Visitors to
the Mines or Township. All the rooms are lofty
and well ventilated, and luxuriantly furnished.
Large BILLIARD ROOMS, in which are Two
Splendid Tables.
All Telegrams or Letters forwarded will
immediatepersonal attention.
CORRESPONPENCE
“ George Angus ” (and many other correspon-
dents for whose letters ive have no space) : The question
Parkes v. Supreme Court in re Lo Pak and other
Chinamen resolved itself into an issue of Law versus Des-
potism, the N.S.W. Premier taking the part of despot.
Those who say the Chinese should not have been allowed
to land are wrong. They were already under the shadow
of our flag and entitled to our protection, just as they
would have been amenable to our criminal law. The
Bulletin while yielding to no one in its sense of the
necessity of bringing about a stoppage of Chinese immi-
gration to Australia, trusts that the N.S.W. Legislative
Council willneverdisgrace itself by consenting lo indemnify
the Government which denied to men, however humble, that
protection which the laws that we ourselves have made
give to all men of whatever colour or nation—it hopes that
the Chinamen will yet be enabled to submit to an Aus-
tralian judge and jury their claim for damages in regard
to an outrage against the law made to protect and set
free the meanest slave brought within its jurisdiction. To
have laws which will give to every man, oitizen or
alien, the same even-handed justice—that is almost
the only thing under heaven worth fighting f0r....
“Admirer” (I-lokitika, N.Z.): Thanks for clipping.....
“Frank Clifton”: Received..... “Australian Native”:
The “National Association of Australasia” was inaugu-
rated at a recent ['meeting of Sir Thomas MTlwraith’s
general committee during the late Queensland elections
amid tremendous enthusiasm, and 200 persons enrolled
themselves as members on the spot. Since then, branohes
have been formed in every important Queensland centre.
The movement will gradually drift into the more Tory
colonies, for it must be recollected that Queensland is the
3'oungest and most patriotic of the group “Anti-
Chinaman” : No; Parkes’ greatest mistake lay in the
delay which permitted the complications to arise
“C.F.S.” (Bathurst): Yes, it is quite true “Tarpeian
Way ” : You surely don’t expect us to publish such things.
“ H.H.H.” : Nor is Modern Society the only widely-
circulated English paper which has made a reputation by
stealing Bulletin matter wholesale and passing it off as
its very own. Modern Society, in one recent issue of
which we find 31 Bulletin paragraphs, rarely has the
decency to acknowledge the location of its plunder-
ground. ... “Walter Le M.” : Call and see us ere you g 0...
“ A.W.” : We presume that the conference between the
N.S.W. Minister for Justice and the Judge who tried the
prisoners in the Mount Rennie case has been shelved
“A. Jardine”: Should war come in Europe it will
hasten the advent of Socialism by a century.... “ G.R.A.”
(Young Creek): Your suggestion is older than the hills
Older even than Parkes’ original remarks...." A.E K :
Do you mean the first convict-ship or the first vessel bear-
ing free immigrants ? “ J.A.A.” (Vic.) : Next week...
“E. Markham”: As to the London Standard's declara-
tion that the action of Australia in prohibiting Chinese
immigration is opposed to international law and that
China will be justified in retaliating and expelling the
English from China, we can only remark that the English
in China are there for purely commercial reasons. The
Australians are expelling the Chow from purely commer-
cial reasons. We cannot help what China may do to the
English. That is their own commercial affair “Cock-
ney”: The rhythm of “How Long” requires a certain
amount of revision “M.D.” (Reefton, N.Z.) : Thanks
fDr clipping.... “ Protectionist ” (Geelong, Vic.): Of
course, Protection had all to do with it. By protecting
the local markets and the local trader, it enables the local
manufacturer to employ the local workman. The reason
why N.S.W. has 7000 “ unemployed ” is not far to seek
“ Timbrel ”: Why this faithlessness to “ Egypt's dark sea”?
. .. “ Ananias” : “ Screed” rather too lengthy “ Black
Diamond”: You have won the wager. They are imme-
diately opposite “ A.W.” : Your “ Alcaics” are very
clever “Haldhone”: Have received your “first at-
tempt” at wattle poetry; are likewise painfully im-
pressed “ Over-Exposed ’: It seems cruel to expose
.you further by remarking that lanscapes is not an Eng-
lish word “ Privileged Communication” : Received.
[Many letters now held over will be dealt with next week.]
A Queensland Parliamentary candidate
told the electors to kindly bring their questions
written out “on paper.” This was calculated to
block the free and independent who didn’t wear
toiled shirts and who might have wanted to know
if the candidate was in favour of the trans-
continental railway.
At Beech worth (Yic.) recently, a young
new chum concluded, in the absence of the pro-
prietor, to take a lesson in the manipulation of
that demoniac Australian product—the stockwhip.
The hospital doctors think that his eye may be
saved, but the mother of a large family of orphans
is knocked out of all reasonable shape, a ladv who
was passing at some distance has lost a section of
her ear, a horse is permanently deranged, a hen
has had one leg knocked off, a pussy cat has been
disembowelled, a chimney is raked down, and a
sundowner is suffering through having his mouth
shifted. Three broken windows, a gate dragged
off its hinges, and a cow scared so badly that she
has run dry are the remaining features cf a
lamentable case.
A large and influential syndicate has been
formed in a mining township in southern N.S.W.
for the purpose of pushing on an Australian
industry which doesn’t need Protection. The
business of the syndicate is to hang round any and
every valuable claim within a radius of 200 miles
and hire someone to swear that the owner of the
same has contravened some forgotten section of
the Act, whereupon the syndicate jumps the pro-
perty. Most of the leading men of the district
are members of the organisation, and a large staff
of broken-down rabbiters and other human rattle-
traps travel round and do. the swearing. The
miners of the district are meanwhile discussing
the advisableness of forming a rival organisation
and “laying for ” the syndicate’s hired testifiers.
The programme of this proposed league will be
fashioned after the American pattern, and it will
seek to promote elevation among the travelling
staff.
A boar was bought for 150 guineas, :
Gippsland, the other day. M. ’sP. are going up
the market.
A Melbourne paper set up Minister o
Works, “ Minister of Words,” a few days ag
Words not deeds-
At Orange (N.S.W.) the other day t]
plea of “respectable parents” reduced a thr
months’ sentence to four weeks.
The Rev. Marshall advocates establishii
a savings-bank in connection with Scots’ Churc
Melbourne. His forerunners were content with i
plate.
The unsavoury denizens of the Chines
Gardens, at Rochester (Vic ), are the proud pr
prietors of a heifer with three eyes, four ears, tw
mouths, a hump, and several other curious d
velopments. They guard it very jealously, anc
we expect, find it useful as a god.
Unless a slouchy, hollow-eyed Providenc
wakes up and hits the district of Isisford (Q.) wit
its inward monitor or some other weapon, th
white men thereabouts will probably rise in blooc
stained insurrection. The Chinese up there hav
sprung up like a flower and taken possession o
the shearing-sheds and other fields of industr 1
and great is the fall of the Eulopean man in coi
sequence. Chinese cooks are in possession ever;
where, and the pale Australian who declines t
eat dinners prepared by a foreigner who is badl;
scared of water, has to go without. On on"
station a revolution was recently attempted, bu
it fell woefully flat. The culinary artist was th
dingiest animal who ever received 30s. a week
and cakes of earth fell off him every time he wa
hit with a stick. The station hands endured him
for some time, but at last they took some samples
they had knocked off the Buddhist, and layin
them beiore the manager, invited him to employ
something that had less foreign substance on th
outside of it in his stead, unless he wanted an ep:
demic to break out, and the boss graciously pro
mised to engage the first white cook he could ge
at £1 a week. Up to date the Chow still draw
his 30s. with punctuality.
The late Professor Hearn, Q.C., of Mel
bourne, appeared only twice in court on any oc
casion of importance during the last 20 years. Th
first was in 70, when Kenneally, who had been
transported from Ireland to Western Australia
for Fenianism, was pardoned, and went over tc
Melbourne, but was arrested under the Influx o:
Criminals’ Prevention Act.- He was brought
before Call, P.M., and Hearn and Aspinall de
fended him. He was ordered to leave the colony
within a week or two, but notice of appeal wa
given. Then he was called on for surety, anc
Aspinall said that though the care was one o
summary jurisdiction Winter would be the bonds
man. That was S. V. Winter, now of the Mel-
bourne Herald. After the police-court business
Kenneally’s friends met the late Dick Ireland
Q C., in consultation. When the case went to
the Supreme Court the Kenneally crowd weri
flabbergasted to find that Dick appeared for the
Crown, after having seen all the case for the other
side ! Richard won the case with a card up his
sleeve. The next time that Dr. Hearn appearec
in court was when the great “ Stawell Jumps’
were before the Full Court. He always wore two
wigs in court —a white and a brown one.
The City Provident Dispensary, 603 George-street, Brick
field Hill, between Liverpool and Goulburn streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpenoe. The Resident
Medical Offioer (a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays 9to 10, Evenings 7to 9.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Queen’s
Birthday Cup, May 24 ; 2000 Subscribers at 10s.
each. First Horse, £400; Second, 200; Third,
£100; Starters, £100; Non-starters, £lOO (divided
amongst them), and 50 Cash Prizes at £2 each.
Also The Queen’s Birthday Cup, 3000 Subscribers
at 20s. each. First Horse, £1,500; Second, £G00;
Third, £300; Starters, £300; Non-starters, £3OO
(divided amongst them). The Winter stakes, run
June 9th. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £800; Second, £250; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please registrar all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Hotels.
Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
PIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NINETY
A Walter meets every Steamer.
an< * Ingrams please address proprietor,
c
S. M. COLLINS.
° TOWNSvS CIAL hotel,
a LLE ’ Q Ukk NSLAND.
and Fa^n mmo^^ on * or Commercial Gentle
*®a oharve tS 8 ‘ Private Sitting-room withoul
jock’s). ' and Shower Bath. Billiard*
tolerate, Wm Bt<dass Chef. Charges strictlj
meets e 88 and Spirits of the best brands,
BVer y steamer.
RANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
p °Rtant NOTICE
4»ON
the firm of Lowry & Bolton
fcl the traveller. 6 nuin erous friends of the Firr
, public that he has gone t
■Which l!nu e charge of the SUNBURS'
gJ?. erscil1 al snnoY. • . ence forth be carried on unde
C??, centS S .l on - Sunburst Hotel, Moun
mountain and facing the cele
will visiting the celebrate
them on ? very comfort and convenienc
on thZt^Z 811 - BILLIARD TABLI
SodZL 11 ™? 8 ’ also STABLIN<
,Won - ‘ Noff te ? ail V from
I O Tr*. address —
« D >theFil E f L BOLTON
° N B IT £°t Lowry & Bolton),
M R S T H O T E
Mount Morgan.
« ast -—- DOTH
TREET\ ROCKHAMPTON,
Pi> CLABS Famil y Hotel.
Sitt^ ge and Shower Bath.
®°°d StabR g ' rOOm ’ wit hout extra chart
Jaq 8 ’ Every accommodation.
’ WILLIAMSON, Propriet<
prince oe wales’ hot
, ST ’ kilda.
W atioa to vis Hotel offers superior accon
central n S Z d res idents, being
ana » P? sitlon > fronting the .
Zes of the St. Ki]a a Z 3 ’ and Within five min
>’ s si a P ar tmem ? ail , way Station. Pri
**•*» cU° ki °B-room’ la 4 les drawing-room, ge:
1 Hot and cold baths wit
OF ART HOT
U^rpass MACKay -
Ti^v„n Accommoda tion for
Z " ellers and Families.
rS and F amilie E
1 m Zj' CLASS C HEF-
**&%££***
W ROBINSON, Propr
hS^ BOULBURM ' I
1^ e too^° u andotL lmodatioll for con
JAMEo er^„ Privatesittin
- mi£S SIMONS, Propr
b%c" — P 1
east-street
-\ Qll i 0 / X can reontv, Tbe Westen
[°%t
3an hotel, QUEEh
of
% ;TotieZ Bi tor B K-C.M.G. 1
Ntt e^atea a B t ,l endi(Z°' Btol ' ey buddin
'P w tan Be ob
co a „, of the com° f gold > ar 'd wit
daUy £ any ’ s works.
’ of the y fl Btati ons f w m Rockham
ar m of ,* moncki
and Co.
\ nil()d nccme
broth;
. 1
to 269 Kent-street,
5a Ve Sydney,
SALrI* 78 ln STOCK for
WSnr™ tho TRADE and
. O*rLv LKSALE BUYERS
° N <«mS? KV - “ a
A R n, AND
Rt HENWARE.
N ®s, BKK Ra and spirits,
BULTr a i» ge,1 ® ral
K Merchandise,
j °Bn for
Old &f LK ®R and SONS
.highland Whlßky,
J ' s ORIN and CO.’S
Oognao.
*&£ «ayens
apps and Genera,
A *SdS VIN and SONS
* M «ttbnreh Pale Ala,
Business Announcements,
E. I) MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION A GENT,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
•Ulg£ArT VMNI
j»lw>nw ir
XAPSS*
*4J& £EOR€£ t r
gYDNCY t
//
Pi
s
UMBRCLLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames tfh
covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match cos
tumes, Repairs neatly executed
Trade Mark— “TONIC NERVINE.”
Marshall’s tonic nervine
Promotes Appetite.
Improves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price 4/6.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Sydney, N.S.W. ; London, England.
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to Vvl-a
592 a GEORGE STREET —;
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
GEO RGE STREET
SYDNEY
I'M PORTERS (JF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
T iJE ORIGINAL
P c
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
Ob
HIGHEST DEGREE OF MEHIL
<tcr°
ISTH E B EST IN TB E WO RIO J
NONE OTHER BUT
WAU C H S
RE: t ; VJ D 1 H f fNI CRNATI ON A t
PR IT E MCOAL
IUfIUfACTUBCO erJAIiEsCHAIOKMI
S'Svoflif
SydtuAß tecuMatsmuva»
Business Announcements,
M
o N U M K N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailinga.
Deiigni and Estimates forwarded on reqneit.
4. (ISSLVtHAM,
Mab&abbt-stbkkt, Wynyard-squab*, Bydkby.
i WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECIIAM’S PILLS
ci iA
V
&
to
PATENT
PILLS.
w
&
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders;
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals',
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams;
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
lor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECH AM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best eVer offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bebcdam’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Beecham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaua, cA* 1 nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’lected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIJ. Acting Manager.
CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws- of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY or other Noxious
Stowac mo Contam inations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M 8., Ch. M., &c.,
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician, and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”
53, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections'.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors, Eruptions,
Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study or Business,
Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affections, and all morbid
conditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N.B. —I wish it distinctly understood that Ido not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
PROGRESSIVE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
US’ No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 253, G.P.O.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston & Ce.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney
jSydney.
m -
gHBEBfIBBB & jm**HdhifMMC«G&Zfc
WE can recommend the Imperial Haib
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D* 1 RIDGE’S
FOOD
ran WfANTS INVAUOS
Has an enormous sale in England.!
tin! is now being introduced into thq)
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should gota supplyu
•s every wise mother will certaigklyP
use it.
DR.RIDGE'S royal foodmiixs®
LONDON. ENGLAND,
m
is.
row
COUGHS
NCWTI
MA.B
AND *LL CHEST AFFECTIONS
IM2&&
AS
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Syphon Mi Water Co.,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
©mi
*rTc» ousticno /a v gT
Boydl's /Irardl Elixir did l thie,
|'r«4 mil 'io <f on either bald
head or barf face /Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails <,20,000 1
Copyrighted* young men aiready war full Uopynghted,
beards, having used Ito 6 phis Vo injury , anally applied, certain
in effect. Packets, Is. 6 d. each ■ i /or 3a , 6<f. »os£ paid, sent under
eover, free from observatUn, \ '.utrese* lltimulkMmglha., Sole Agent „
Box T3U, Q P.O. „ Sydney f» <5 _•*
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Make*
• 396 PITT 4 STREET.
70
Marquees on Fllre.
r ATKiNSON’S N
•ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses ail others for its lusting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET | WOOD VIOLET
TREVOL 1 CHYPRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled tor their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOILETTE DE IGNORES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors.
Of oil Dealert, and of the Manufacturer)-*
J. & B. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden
U. Lyre.” jA


RO¥ALJ||Wfi|
*4kiM c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuit®, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygieaists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
PaWDBR Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
Nhw South Walhs.
IMPOBTBB OT
«T«SWINHS,i:SPIBITS, BBHBS,
&Ca j &0» j
George and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
SPEC IA LI TIES: —
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
/PT The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t3T All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hofei, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
4ar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
miss uiur uniuuii am mi imim,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Products Stores * gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS
IST El W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
MelboiirnOp and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALL AAH BROTHERS.
yarn, vwi,
'For Arbistlo Posing and JgJJ* tb*
combining softness and brilM*™'
4 Photographsoi
GHARLEMONT ft
' ROYAL ARCADE,
!.BMINKNO.T
k’STAND PEK-
T
HE WONDER T
* COLEMANE AND S 0^ S fl .
Pure Volatile tmw*
the
the only Genuine Eucalypt* 10
GOLD MEDAL AMLAffl® &
CO!'
All those
sumption. jvneuiunLiau*, - &c YI JZr
Kidney and Gravel Comply 111 ci Zp
OIL a SAFE CURE. T for aU ©1
MENT stands without a rival mor0 1# jj,
eases and Bad Eyes. ;il( , m
testimonials than any medl • p o t
Posted to any address on t, ft *
of Oil, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.;
6d. Agent, for Sydney an a p k
SMITH, 17, Cook-st., MoorePa^
mH E S~3IKNO
I By W. Knox .
A Book for Young sljS!
bound in cloth, and contal
tions. Price, post paid, H® 1 ’
sample free. Those suffering ftt ofl°*
haustion and Diseases s^oul nn0 t!or
valuable work. Address P, nurk e a
Post Office Chambers, comer
gtreete, Melbourne, Vic»
A Blessing in every
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
There is not a oountry in tPj
the healing virtues of these V r *_ ert Is * j, »i 0 if
recognised by thousands of flo#n t s O /?.?, tin if
cognised. Fullest directions arei
every disease IF YOU SUFFER * j
faotured only at 78 New *
chasers should look to the Labe po»
If the address is not 628 Oxford
spurious. __
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
a*-*-«**““>“ ggfcg Vt
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & GO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, fcO.
Brau amd 801 l Founding, Finishing, Art Mefcal Work, Coppersmithlng, Blacksmlthlng. Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electrio and Pneumatdo 8011-fltting, of everjrdesorlptiion.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE," and “ PAN ”§CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, See.
Sale Agents far ferity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars anb Prick on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE
130 COLLINS
WEST,
Melbourne.
PITT STK*#* '
BARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Crating, Soda-water, Wine ajid Cider
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vignerons for lees, Candle-ma* ns
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting. David Smita» a
1 k'
r? # . JLIIOTIIUg HUU MXWkUAUQ. l»- JJjJ
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakes’ Liquid Album 0 ® O rb ° D }Ji
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawfora, Joe „
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventive of fustiness- ° ' )nB -
family use; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or wine m.
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon in country districts .
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extract, Sanc -j\ 0 OoP p .A" |
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ginger ™
lllustrated Catalogue Post Free on Application. -.rjjlU”';
T Publishing Office of “THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, Jit o®' 0 ®'
WINE AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW." Speoimon. Copw» *
TayloFfirtf
HIGHLY' NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
■ •. .
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
'£*£©£TSC’S
NKW ZEALAND , .
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
MONK j e
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhtßa Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
MONK’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole Agents •
Mathey, Nathan & Co.,
201 PITT STREKT, SYDNEY,
AND
44 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
:.C.P., Kdln., L.8.0-S*
registered in Great Britain,
late surgeon to H.R.H. >'.
Resident Medical Officer k° 0 :j
London, specialist for the tr M
and Heart Diseases, &o. perf o^-^ 1
Consultation by letter ot
charge, at Edgar House-
Hunter-street Sydney.
o * A
L.R.
R.
R I
/
°j„c
D
Send for large Bound e>
for all Nervous Diseases, 0 n °°
age, 6d. in stamps, a Consn oJjO e 1
and the Doctor will tell y OX \ g
case is curable or not. A „ fj'
DR, gypJ
7 SPRING STB®® 1,
PECIAL NOTIOE. r -T» , J) at^jV
i Tasmanian
GERALD BROS., SubscriP
in advance), Six Shilh
quarter, or One Pound p®
"'l gale fl !h«
Thh Bdllktin will be g o t# v
the office, George-street, 0
the street.
Commercial Hotel, GycP 1 ® 1 j\
~7l* » i4, >
THK above is one of t»« .
Squatting Hotels »
reasonable. Sample ro ° * jJO®
Superior acoommoda^^jjij^^^
TO
m
by wear
the same
cularl or send caps of old legs along to WIESEXER’S STEAM FACTORY and DIRECT IMPORT STORES, SYDNEY, by far the largest concern in this line in Australia,
Most Impboved Goods can be inspected or Manufactured.
