

The Bulletin
Vol. 9— So. 448.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1888,
Price, U,
foy *Ter,;U op
J /V/? .' /fa /b.u.yfi f***? ,o '^ r/7
I >/TC/AL
'5-5 A VICE
PRf\y£ R s
for.
KMN
yfeCm. t'cL e. > * b,e. ?
, , ._ ~, _, <3fjf ol «Tn otO S/~»r try,
/rrCKy/'/b -for 'p, e,y t- A J . /
Jffocc6/-/ess «- cAr'/cc*/* 6/tntC*.r o 7 # &/>*■' /e ~*/
-
'//RT At o '#**’
t*. :/
//A/ cT v '*' /
C/t °Se s /y *
r 4 A/P
Lure.
Ay
Sc I E N C E
'Butted -»
Ca/ace ro on off-
s “O'f.
*?* TW? P
OT^zr S &t*7y -4 P *t «?/'£*■*' ■
~y es
Qtxy. //e- /5 up op
Ct Vyeo) poenp
*- '*»■'?-
Sf,e'r* pr*&**''
'?1/Q "
A v
* A ■yetessars/'y
— Sly 7/i «, e. - oss?/ T~
/-s Cozy e_ u.ip cf. &)- 7^ e.
- r~~ fyoy/c>u^>
....'. a as ■>
si
T'SHt/flif 5
lA/4 i (_
° r
r
Co*' fad*
n m ( y
fa (*)tare.n 7 a .f r tM l,7 s e</ ?* r /
h’r. %#%£«■
wwaSS*
0&
fd
Topics of the Week.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia fob the Australians.”
Proprietors t BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-btreet, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1888.
“Trade.”
The grief of the Almighty Dollar crying in
the wilderness is again heard in the pages of
the Sydney D.T, The subject under dis-
cussion is Freetrade and Australian Federa-
tion, and for the one thousandth time
Private Murphy points out in sorrow and
anger that the whole regiment is out of
step :
“The Age objects to the farmer being sacrificed to
what it calls 1 the vaporous abstraction ’ of the federal
idea, because through the churlishness of the other colo-
nies, and particularly of New South Wales, federation is
out of the question. Now, as far as New South Wales is
concerned, the colonies may practically, federate to-
morrow. Here they may all come and go, or buy and sell
just as they please. When a Melbourne man lands in
Sydney on business or pleasure he is not pounced upon by
a swarm of Customs officials, who capture his baggage
and overhaul its contents to see whether there is any-
thing there to prove that he is either a Russian spy or an
Australian smuggler. All our ports are open, and it re-
quires the supercilious permit of no Custom House officer
or other minion of the law for the Victorian, South Aus-
tralian, or Queenslander to come and go amongst
us as he pleases. The Adelaide merchant is allowed to
monopolise the whole of our border trade for all the law of
this colony has to say, just as freely as if he belonged to
Wiloannia or Bourke. In the same way when it suits our
Western squatters to patronise Melbourne or Adelaide in
the shipment of their wool no bar is raised against their
doing so. They are only reminded that provincial pre-
judices override the Federal principle when they wish to
send their stock to the Victorian market and find the way
stopped by an exclusive tariff fence. The Victorian,
however, finds no such anti-Federal contrivance put up
to bar his entrance to New South Wales. But it is use-
less to go on enumerating the proofs that New South
Wales is at the present time the only colony of the group
in which a practically Federal spirit is shown to exist.
What does Federation mean but the breaking down of
the barriers which keep intercolonial communities apart
and making the interests of all the colonies identical ? It
is obvious that this can never take place except upon a
common basis of Freetrade.
* * *
The note of the shoddygoods journalist is
audible in every word of this utterance.
Like the house of Bourbon, the Telegraph
has learnt nothing, and, like them, it has
forgotten nothing, for it never knew anything
to forget. Cents and dollars, dollars and
cents furnish the one theme which
can rouse it to anything approaching elo-
quence. The instincts of commercialism
are steadily eating away the soul of the
Australian people and their representative—
the press—weighs everything in the scale of
dollars and cents. Honour and patriotism
and truth are estimated by the daily journals
like butter, at so much a ton; poetry has
degenerated into an imbecile effort to find a
rhyme for “ two-and-sixpence ; ” art is
valued and measured according to the dead
weight of a statue or the superficial area of
a picture, and the buyer wants to know
whether there is half-a-pound of paint on it
or three-quarters ; everywhere rises the
same old jingle of cents and dollars, dollars
and cents. The “federal spirit," in the
estimation of the Sydney D.T,, is only an
influence to facilitate the swapping of wool
and grease, and the colonies which don’t de-
vote themselves so strictly as they ought to
the swapping of wool and grease are the
stumbling-blocks which prevent the estab-
lishment of that great United Australia for
which the Telegraph pines — a vast commo
wealth erected on a solid basis, and destinec
to swap wool and grease through all t]
cycles of the future, until the coming of tl
Twilight of the Gods foretold by t]
dreamers of old Norse mythology. Anc
when the End comes the empty grease-ke
and the collapsed wool-bale are to beplantec
above the grave of the extinct nation, wii
an inscription setting forth that it had so
tallow at a high figure for 10,000 years, anc
a verse below—“ Well done, thou good anc
faithful servant; ” while the released sou'
wings its way to a better land where it pra;
that it may find a halo round the dollars anc
an everlasting radiance clinging to the cent
• * *
And meanwhile the Private Murphy, o
New South Wales, plods along, admittin
with grief that all the rest of the regimen
are out of step, and imploring them i
straighten themselves up and keep a steady ey
on him, and tread carefully in the huge foo
prints which he leaves upon the sands
chronic insolvency. Even according to h:
own reasoning, however, and judging h
policy by his own low standard, Murphy
logic is woefully defective. In theory h
desires that Australia should form one grea
nation, with no boundaries except the sea
and if this union is ever to become a fact i
must be by the establishment of a centra
Parliament composed of deputies elected b
manhood suffrage, and representing ever;
section of the Australian population. Th
one-horse Council which held its first sitting
at Hobart some two or three years ago wc
not elective in any sense ; it inspired no con
fidence, exercised no authority worth men
tioning, and, in fact, was merely a littl
secluded gathering of official nominees
afflicted with a painful consciousness of th
absurdity and inutility of their position
But a genuine Australian Parliament woulc
occupy a far different position, and one of it
first duties would be to remove the questio
of tariffs from the domain of provincial pol:
tics, and establish a uniform system o:
Australian finance. And in pursuance o
this duty it would be under the pain
ful necessity of calling upon Privat
Murphy to keep step. New South Wales
on the first day of Australian union, woulc
cease to be an apology for a nation anc
would become merely a part of a nation, anc
the vote of the united continent would mak
Protection universal throughout the com
monwealth. It is to avoid this result tha
New South Wales—or rather Parkes, wh
regards himself as synonymous with New
South Wales—holds aloof, and the defection
of the “ mother colony ” is the one insuper
able bar to the establishment of a nationality
which would extend from the alligator
haunted swamps of the golden North to the
dusty plains of Western Australia and the
smellful reaches of the dismal Yarra.
* * ♦
The next general election in New South
Wales promises favourably to clear the way
for the great reform which will weld the dis
jointed Australias into one powerful State
The bitter cry of the Daily Telegraph anc
the hollow groan oP the S.M. Herald are
the precursors of a change, and those
leaders of public opinion who regard man as
a machine designed by Providence for the
eternal swapping of commodities, and
nation as an improvement apd enlargement
of this great principle, and a means by
which commodities may be swapped with
greater facility, will presently see a new
vista opening before them. When Private
Murphy, of New South Wales, falls
into line the fiscal barriers which separ-
ate the colonies will begin to break
down, and then if it is possible to
build a new race on the plans and specifica-
tions of the Sydney daily Press, out of in-
voices and bills-of-lading and bank-drafts,
and to grind patriotism and lofty aspirations
out of whirring machinery, and to measure
the greatness of a new-born people by the
tonnage of their ships, and the horse-powei
of their greasy engines, and the length anc
breadth and dimensions of their red-brick
factories, and to turn the sacred fire which
kept alive the national spirit of the Hebrews
and the Greeks in their warlike days into
marketable commodity and sell it by the
pound neatly done up in brown paper and
carefully tied with string, then a favourable
opportunity will present itself for the
D.T. to set about creating just such a
race as its soul is fitted to under-
stand and appreciate. For to that journal,
and to others of the same stamp, trade
is the beginning and the middle and
the end of all things, and life is a little span
which is allowed to man that he may gather
in dollars and cents, and the mysterious
darkness which comes after is a damp and
awful emptiness where the dollars rust and
the cents decay and a dull, green mould
gathers on the useless coppers dropped by
the escaping soul in its flight from earth.
• • •
For the time, however, the ceaseless
wrangle over the best way to realise
the silver and the coppers continues to
keep Australia disunited and feeble, and
the millions who ought to be engaged in
building up a free and noble common-
wealth fritter away their energies in end-
less discussions about commerce and trade
and exchange, until these three words are
indelibly stamped on the soul of every Aus-
tralian, and the interminable sordid problem
concerning the manner in which corn and
grease can be swapped to the best advantage
obscures all loftier considerations. And for
this result New South Wales is largely re-
sponsible. For the exclusive benefit of a
few over-grown firms in the importing in-
terest manufactures have been crushed out
of sight and the whole population reduced to
an extreme of poverty which finds its only
relief in garbled statistics and long columns
of lying figures issued to prove the existence
of glorious prosperity where prosperity is
not; and as the colony sinks lower and
lower into the mire of insolvency, life
assumes a more and more sordid aspect, and
the struggle for the dollars and the cents is in-
tensified tenfold. But still New South Wales
holds on its bankrupt way, and the interests of
Australian unity are sacrificed because the
wire-pullers of the “mother” colony are
selfishly and stupidly resolved to hold aloof
from the policy which has been adopted
unanimously by all the other states of Aus-
tralia. Every utterance which points to
something higher and nobler than trade is
drowned by the hoarse voice of Private
Murphy calling to the rest of the world to
keep step, and because the Avorld pays no
heed to his call he is resolved to march
alone. And meanwhile the colony is filled
with Murphy’s dissonant voice, and “trade”
rings in the ears of young Australia until
the air is dense with echoes about money
and per-centages and exchange, and old
sectarian hatreds are disinterred and dragged
to light to do fresh service in the cause of
cash, and old intercolonial animosities are
furbished up anew for financial purposes,
and the corrupt and imbecile Parliament of
New South Wales blocks the road of Austra-
lian nationality and devotes itself to the
ventilation of strange theories and blas-
phemies about Hell and the Pope and other
public institutions, and through it all the
Daily Telegraph pursues the even tenor of
its way and wonders at the obstinacy and
cussedness of all creation outside the little
spot of earth where it is published.
„ ft *
The Bulletin, unlike the Telegraph and
its compeers, labours for the establishment
of a United Australia, and trusts to see the
coming commonwealth prosperous and
powerful. It locks forward to this result
mainly in the hope that the struggle for
existence may lose its fierceness, and that the
Australian nation may have time to be some-
thing better than a race of shopkeepers, and
to dream of something nobler than the dis-
mal, all-absorbing problem of “ trade.” But
if wealth is to lead only to more wealth—if
the history of Australia is to consist of no-
thing but money and commerce—if there is
nothing ahead but an endless vista of
“trade,” then it would be better for the
waters of the Pacific to roll over
this continent to-morrow, and wipe out
a nation which is doomed to be a
failure than for the weary centuries of
the future to be spent in building up a
people without a purpose worth living for.
The problem of life is still a mystery, and
thousands of years of patient research have
brought us but little nearer to a solution.
The reason of man’s existence has yet to be
discovered. What it is we will not attempt
to guess, but should it ultimately prove that
the Telegraph is right and that the begin-
ning and the end of life is nothing higher
than trade, then it will be time to construct
a new theology and let the religions and the
philosophies of the past slide together.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
National Greatness.
We try hard to be patriotic, but the contract gets
too big for us at times, and we’d fain take a rest
and maunder over the glories of an Empire upon
which the sun never rises. Not that Australia is
less to us than the said Empire. It is more, in-
finitely more, but it is a hard job to be enthusiastic
over a nation in whose aggregate breast you can
awaken interest only on such subjects as cricket
and silver-shares, football and the price of copper.
You can dissect history with a Lilliputian lancet
and sift it through an animalcular sieve, and you
will find that everything which has had sufficient
vitality in it to live down to present times cannot
be weighed and gauged and measured by the
pewter-pot-and-saveloy standard by which the
entire civilised world is at present endeavouring
to live, move, and have its dull and prosy being.
And in no country in the world is the tone of
life lower, more superficial, sentimentless, and
brutally utilitarian in the basest sense than
in those sections of the sunset-less Empire
of hymnal braggadocio called, with a certain
show of reason, by the long-cuffed new-
chum “the blawsted kawlonies.” Every sentiment
in man or community which has its origin outside
a saucepan, or any considerable distance from a
soup-tureen, is sneered and jeered at, ridiculed,
and mercilessly pelted with the cheap scorn of the
man whose existence is the existence of a pouch
which conveniently takes the form of a purse
or a stomach according to the time of
day. Ambition effrondesces in money-making,
and all sorts and conditions of men pledge their
souls for gold and put their aspirations in pawn for
a bank-balance. And this sort of thing threatens
to for ever prevent Australia from taking her
place among the nations of the earth. It renders
each individual in a community mean, isolated,
preying on his countrymen, selfish, incapable of a
single act unconnected with a dividend. His
mind becomes atrophied, and what it is customary
to call his soul dies utterly and irredeemably. He
cannot make history. His time is occupied in
making money. He sneers at every act of his
neighbour, for which not a pecuniary but an
ideal or sentimental reason only can be given.
Cromwell ! Hampden ! Bah ! What did they
make out of it ? The Boulanger and Mackay
Co. is comprehensible ; there was a dividend in it.
But Brutus ? Did he not quietly float a syndi-
cate for the total annihilation of Julius CAESAR,
Limited, reserving for himself the managing
directorship? America, the republic, is the
worst modern example of golden-calf worship.
How the ducks-and-drakes speculators grovel and
bathe in their dollars and cents ! How they
affect to scorn all greatness that is not based on a
bank-book ! In their country, in this age, Jat
Gould and Dish-cover Mackat ought to be
the greatest men American history has ever taken
cognisance of ! Are they ? Even in America—a
country so corrupt that it may be under a
monarchy within 50 years of the present time***
even in America the names the people delight in
honouring are the names of men it is the custom
during their lifetime to describe as cranks, to jeer at
for their sentiment, to deride for their neglect of the
Almighty Dollar and their ignorance of the where-
abouts of the Stock Exchange. George Wash-
ington, Abraham Lincoln, John Brown, Ralph
Waldo Emerson, these are some of the cranks
and idealists America is proud to doff her red
liberty cap to—after they are dead. Australia
has not yet awakened to the fact that she has a
few names worthy a high place in her memorial
halls. The men who died for an idea whether
scientific or political, the men who lived and
fought and struggled for a sentiment, who enraged
their enemies and estranged their friends for
something not easily negotiable in a pawn-shop,
have been here and walked about amongst us
though we have not been particularly anxious, in
the ruck of selfish utilitarian scrimmaging, to find
it out or to make very exhaustive inquiries thereto.
Such were Cook, Flinders, Bass, Cunningham,
Leichhardt, Sturt, Eyre, Burke and Wills,
Edmund Kennedy, Peter Lalor, John Dunmohe
Lang— a few amongst a multitude from the
records of whose lives a sentiment of national
greatness may be taken, and this, after all, is the
only thing to keep our life sweet and to save it
from the decay and rottenness that seems to be
eating into the very bones of European civilisa-
tion ; and we do not hesitate to say that any
country which boasts its wealth before its men,
any country which is poor in spirit because it ia
poor in pocket, has but the life of the speculator
among nations, enduring just so long as shares
keep up and the market is brisk, falling into the
gutter of spiritual insolvency when the bubble
bursts and the boom collapses. Let Australia
show herself a nation and we’ll howl for the
Southern Cross until our glottis splits, Not
before !
“ Veritas.”
The threatened strike has drawn from his normal
obscurity one “Veritas,” an ingenious and
malevolent donkey who, among other things, falls
foul of Land Nationalisation in the following hee-
haw “ Land, in its natural state, is but like any
other raw material. It is just as much a raw
material as the skin of any animal before it ia
turned into leather, or made into clothing, and he
that advocates the one may quite as well dn-im a
common property in the flocks and herds running
on it, all equally Nature’s production.” The
stupendous stupidity and ignorance displayed
here is positively appalling. Land, the inex-
haustible, the indestructible, the parent of every
“ raw material,” is likened to a rabbit’s skin, or a
wool-clip. It is no odds to the S.M. Herald’s
bosh-monger that a piece of land, untilled, un-
tended, may go on from now till Chaos cornea
again producing grass enougli to feed the succes-
sive generations of “flocks and herds running on
it.” It has never occurred to him that
the user of land has no more right at
death to hand over to his heirs the exclusive right
to use this piece of soil than has one of the rams
grazing on it. He has evidently no conception
that the highest-priced land has not had its value
conferred on it by the labour of its owner, but
simply by the aggregation of vast numbers of
people in its vicinity, and that such extreme
values, being created by the community and hbt
by the holder, should in justice revert to those
whose presence has created them. The “raw
material,” known to Herald readers as “Veri-
tas,’ then proceeds to attack co-operative labour,
and having demonstrated to his own satisfaction
that labour could never properly develops the
mines if deprived of the privilege of handing over
the bulk of its earnings to those who never soil
their hands, who, attired in purple and fine linen,
wear bulky gold chains, smoke fat cigars, and sit
behind blood horses, this relic of the flint period
then goes on to assert that the sooner strikes are
stamped out the better. “Nothing,” he brays,
‘but bringing them on their knees will ever
stamp out the evil.” Whether he considers the
evil to he in high dividends or low wages he omits
to state. It would hardly be profitable to expose
the various brutalities of the epistle ; it is, how-
ever, if possible, more astonishing that a respect-
able newspaper should have been degraded by its
presence, than that a writer should have been
found so densely ignorant, so thoroughly callous,
as to pen it.
+
Smallbore Optimists.
Whatever is, is best; also if you have uncom-
mon common sense and uncommon lots of “ tin”
this little world is a most uncommon pleasant
world for a fellow to live in. The sentiment is
not original; but—no matter 1 This sudden re-
collection on our part of a half-forgotten foolish-
ism must be laid to the door of a broadsheet pub-
lished in a New South Wales country district.
The Bulletin, in an article entitled “The
Coming Revolution,” recently put into language
what it regards as some of the best aspirations of
nineteenth-century man, and the paper in ques-
tion, in a spirit of abject retrogression, felt itself
called upon to rear up and object. This age was
good enough for it. The present condition of
things was more than sufficient to satisfy all its
social and political cravings. It didn’t want no
millennium or no anythink ! Probably not' The
present condition of things is as good as the’sheet
of boiled-calico in question deserves. Says our
contemporary :
“ The strong man, the man of one idea, the ambitious
man, sets out on life’s journey with a fixed resolve to rise-
and if his health holds he succeeds in reaching a level
above his compeers, even though he make a path on the
heads of those who have jostled him in the race.”
Mark, “ the strong man ” ! What of the millions
upon millions of men who are not strong ’ What
of the men of more ideas than one, and that one a
bank-balance? What of the men who are not
ambitious ? “If his health holds he succeeds i“
What if his health fails ? What of the heads of
the men who have to furnish skulls for cobble-
stones to the successful man’s pathway ? What of
the wasted lives, the blighted hopes, the ruined
fortunes, the emaciated frames, the empty
stomachs, the squalid, narrow existences of those
uncounted millions whose bones strew that same
pathway to Success which only the men of “ one
idea,” the selfish, the coarse, the brutal, tread to
its goal? Says this worshipper of the skull-
crushing favourite of fortune :
‘‘AH cannot win ; every man who tries cannot becom*
a 1 bloated capitalist. ” •
N °v,i^ U V tha ,Vl wha * humanitarians desire
nobody should be. “ Bloated !” Who wants to see
poor miserable man more bloated than the gas of his
own follies has made him ! But the world is big
enough and fruitful enough for us all to be happy.
There is food enough for all to be fed. Therein
mirth enough for all to enjoy it. Beauty enough
for all to participate therein. But no, says this


flatterer of solitary success, batter make of men s
heads paving-stones to Fortune, in order that one
may tread the road thither in solitary brutality
■■lt will always be . . . that where one succeeds,
ten thousand must fail,” _
r> o ;* go but The Bulletin prefers to voice the
hones of the ten thousand. Jeremy Bbntham s
maxim of “ the greatest good of the greatest num-
ber ” is too splendid a principle to be consigned to
the lumber-room of dead aspirations. It is, how-
ever false that “it will always be. The mills
of Goo ” it is said somewhere, grind slowly, but
they grind sure.” For God we read Progress.
Annihilate the hope in that “ brighter to morrow
for the human race and life is, indeed, unworthy
the living. Oar contemporary reads history awry.
It fails to see that advance on the lines of material
wealth alone must ever be advance in a wrong
direction. We take our leave with this quotation
from its article
“ As society progresses the chief becomes a king ; the
saviQK mm adds acre to acre, and shekel to shekel, and
dispenses patronage ; monopolies are built up; luxury
increases, and side by side with it poverty seems to grow
in increasing ratio. Inequalities establish themselves,
and the distribution of wealth and power passes the many
to be grasped by the fortunats few. But is progress to
..row into revolution? and must the possession ot wealth
bv the Rothschilds, Jay Goulds, and Mack ays be re-
garded as a trumpet charge to dynamiters or petro-
tsnscs ?
This sorb of twaddle is almost unworthy re-
mark, and is in itself a complete and ample justi-
fication for The Bulletin’s article, therefore we
let it pass for what it is worth,
Boring Upwards.
The Australian “ snufiie-busters ” have been, as
they are wont in droughty seasons, agitating that a
day might be set apart of universal supplication, so
that the windows of Heaven might be opened and
the clouds drop fatness. Perhaps the shutters of
that abode of departed saints are closed during
stock-taking, mayhap the residents have eva-
cuated the premises for change of air during the
winter months ; anyhow, it is certain that all the
hvdraulic petitions pumped out from now till
Christmas will not be worth a single dam. No
ultra religionist need burn away at this stage in
horror and disgust. The dam alluded to is an
artificial hollow in the ground, excavated for the
reception and retention of water If, instead of
kneeling on hassocks and burning heavenward the
whites of goggling eyeballs, the male population
would turn out armed with long handled shovels,
a universal year of canal and dam-construction
would benefit the entire community. It is surely
more sensible to bore the earth with artesian wells
than helplessly to bore Heaven with requests for
providential assistance. In order to strike water
the drill must be pointed downwards, yet the
elect will persist in boring in an upward direction,
undeterred by centuries of ignominious failures.
The clergy are praying for ram. We are praying
for beer. Our prayer is more logical, anyway.
Rain is sure bo come--beer isn’t so certain.
+>
“ Traitors!”
Principal Grant, the schoolmaster-meenister
from Canada, is not opening out according to
original samples, we are sorry to find On close
inspection he turns out to be little more than a
narrow-minded, intolerant man of learning, who
persuades himself that he is a broad Democrat and
a faithful interpreter of Christ s doctrines. As
the Great Mokanna of Queen s College, Canada,
his mistaken belief has been encouraged by the
adulation of greenhorns who mean well, and it is
now being endorsed by oily gatherings of the
unco guid. Our interest in this Principal termin-
ated with his recent lecture at the Scots Church,
Melbourne, when he discoursed upon the dear old
Mother Country and her colonies to a choice
crowd of Jingoes, Scotch elders of the Cnurch, and
other supporters of a Material Hell. At the outset
Principal G, tempered his Imperialistic drivel
with some amount of common sense—alternately
running with bhehare and hunting with the hounds.
But he finally sank to the level of his listeners on
the subject of Victoria by the Grace. Any
man who refused to honour Her Majesty would
insult the Flag, and was a traitor whom Britishers
took no trouble to punish in these days, because
we had ceased to break butterflies on the wheel.
He should rather be pitied because he was a fool.
In some countries, though, he would meet with a
bad quarter of an hour preparatory to being taken
to the frontier and warned not to return again on
pain or penalty. If any man showed discourtesy
to the President or the Flag of America, he (Prin-
cipal G.) would not stand in that mans boots tor
all the wealth of Broken Hill or Bendigo. And
this pious Principal Grant poses as an advanced
thinker, in happy ignorance of the fact that
his puny soul is a century behind the times.
No, not quite a century, for it is but bb
years ago since Hakdib and Baird ,? xe "
cubed in front of the Court House, Stirling,
for the crime of being “Radicals. They spo
and wrote disrespectfully of the Sovereign, were
found guilty of high treason, and duly hanged.
And after they were dead they were laid out on
their respective coffins, their necks resting on a
block, and their heads hanging into a tub. 1 ben
an amateur executioner chopped off their heads y
degrees, and held them up with both hands re-
marking, “ This is the head of a traitor ! Those
were the times (distinctly remembered by at least
one old colonist) for Principal Grant. Ibe
British “traitor” now exists, not on sufferance,
but because the “Constitution cant
out in the good old style. He is under no obliga-
tion to the “we” represented by the rapidly-
dwindling minority of loyal Grants, for y
would certainly sling his head about if thej ■
An reste, we never heard of a “traitor who
was guilty of insulting behaviour to the I lag, or
who ever quite understood what the I lag sym
ised. The worst one can say about the blag is
that its most devoted admirers mostly ive up
the nation over which it is understood o
proudly waved for a thousand years. We never
saw it waving, ourself, and we cling to the belief
that a people can be rationally and inexpensively
governed without any flag at all. It is super-
fluous to point out that no man who refuses to
honour Her Majesty ’’ would show discourtesy
to the President. ” The true traitor falls upon
his knees every night of his life and pray
his Gracious Queen may be replaced by a Presi-
dent at the earliest opportunity. In this connec-
tion Principal Grant gave himself away. once and
for all. Bub we will not take the trouble to
punish him any more. “He should rather be
pitied because he is a fool.
Boots.
The frenzied desire of the Englishman to make a
speech is one of the most awful and the most
enduring characteristics of his nation. Apparently,
too, the complaint is incurable. For years and
years the Anglo-Saxon has been urged to take
something for it, but the disease continues to
assume a more and more aggravated _orm, and
apparently it will continue to progress until f he
crack of doom interrupts the last Englishman in
the middle of a few remarks addressed to the last
audience left on earth. Pretty nearly anything
will do to make a speech about, and, consequently,
it is only with a feeling of languid surprise that
we learn that Premier Parkes has been holding
forth on boots. The occasion was the laying of
the foundation-stone of a new boot-store for a
Sydney importing firm, and Parkes, with his ac-
customed vigour, took the opportunity to point
out that boots were only seen in the full bloom of
their manly beauty in countries where Ereetrade
illumines the human mind. The malarious breath
of Protection is fatal to boots, and though they
may struggle for a time against their unwhole-
some surroundings they are invariably weak and
stunted, and after a time they wither away.
Boots [grow best in the bracing atmosphere of
liberty, and where they are chained up by the
ron fetters of tariffs they become prematurely
old and exhibit a lack of soul. Under the glad-
some sky of New South Wales the sturdy farmer
goes out and joyously sows boots broadcast, and
is rewarded by an abundant harvest ; but in
Victoria an emaciated, bowed-down agriculturist
potters feebly around in a vain effort to raise
shoes in pots, and the sapless, moth-eaten
boot-vine leads a precarious existence in sheltered
spots and under the protection of glass. These
and other equally eloquent aspects of the situation
were dwelt upon by Parkes at considerable
length, and then with his accustomed infatuation
the old man went into figures and gave himself
away :
“In 1880 the value of boots and shoes manufactured in
New South Wales was £48,079, and in 1887 it was £35,774,
showing a decrease of £12,323 ; but let them look at Vic-
toria, where Protection held sway. In that colony in 1880,
the value of boots and shoes manufactured was £54,131;
but in 1886 it had fallen to £20,926, or a decrease of
£13,205. This was fairly illustrative of the difference be-
tween Freetrade and Protection. He would remind them
that these figures only represented the exported manu-
factures, not those used at home.
These statistics brought boots down from the
gilded realm of fancy to the cold and icy xegion
of hard fact, and replaced the ethereal blucher of
poetry by the outward and visible clog of plain,
unvarnished prose. And the results don’t seem
to hang well together, somehow. In the first
place, Parkes’ figures are garbled to some extent
by the fact that he uses the year 1887 for purposes
of comparison in the case of New South Wales
while his statistics for Victoria are those of the
previous year. Taking the latter date in both
cases the boot exports of New South Wales stand
at the miserably low figure of £23,164 or a falling
off of £25,000 as compared with Parkes’ figures
for 1880, and a decline of £33,000 as compared with
1884 when the boot crop was about at its brightest.
Almost on the very day when Parkes returned
to office boots fell with a dull, sickening thud, and
they have never really looked up since. Another
depressing circumstance is found in the matter of
imports. New South Wales, in 1886, had to pay
no less than £582,313 for foreign boots, while
Victoria only expended £105,000 in the same fatal
pursuit after manufactured leather. Figures as to
manufactures are not available for comparison,
the subject of boots being treated with neglect by
New South Wales statisticians ; but as the popu-
lation of the two colonies is about equal, and as
the Cornstalk has no more feet than bis southern
brother, and as it is a practice in each colony to
wear a boot on each foot, it may be presumed that
Victoria manufactures annually £477,000 worth
more boots than New South Wales in order to
supply the deficiency in her imports. In
fact she must do this or else one-half the
population must be without boots altogether.
These few dismal figures cast a new and
lurid light on boots, and when it is further
considered that the New South Wales imports
have doubled within the last 10 years while those
of Victoria have been reduced one-half, it becomes
evident that shoes and similar produce are
languishing in the alleged “mother” colony of
Australia. No record was ever kept of the boots
constructed in New South Wales, but if that
blighted land could make her own boots
she certainly would not buy them abroad.
We urge Parkes in a friendly spirit to
consider these things. The thrilling aspect of
boots demands that the subject should be treated
without unseemly levity, and at present the colony
of N.S.W. wants badly to be half-soled. The time
has passed for airy persiflage in the leather-trade.
At such a crisis the spectacle of an old man in a
tall hat firing deranged figures over the foundation-
stone of a shoe-emporium is calculated to make
angels weep.
♦
He wart is to be hanged. The New South Wales
Executive has determined to make “ an example ”
of a man sentenced for a drunken deed so unique
that the millennium will come round before the
law will have an opportunity of dealing with any-
thing similar. The Bulletin, while feeling the
due amount of abhorrence and disgust at the
nature of the offence, cannot help recognising
that Hewart is being hanged to conciliate an
illogical sentiment. Had he fatally throttled
Park in the cell in which the latter was found so
terribly injured, the case would undoubtedly have
been treated as manslaughter during drunken frenzy
-—in a word, his act would have been regarded as
equivalent to murder in the second degree. In-
telligent people nearly all concur in regarding the
proposed execution as a disgrace to New South
Wales and a proof, if any proof were needed,
of the savagery of its laws and their administra-
tion. Hewart will be hanged in defiance to the
merciful recommendation of thejury andin defiance
to the spirit of the world’s civilisation ; for the law
of New South Wales is entrenched behind a barri-
cade of formal and effete usage, and the general
public is so apathetic concerning anything uncon-
nected with the Newcastle coal-strike that the ad-
ministrators of the law as it was *in Vandemonia
can do anything, and very few will trouble about
raising a dissentient voice.
, ♦
The Victorian Government has put on its esti-
mates £250,000 to be expended during six years in
bonuses to farmers and in technical agricultural
education. Bonuses under the exportation of
fruit and dairy-produce section include two sums
of £SOO. A sum of £2850 is apportioned in nine
bonuses, the highest of which is £6OO, for consign-
ments of butter, cheese, bacon, and hams. For
consignments of grapes and other fresh fruits a
sum of £ISOO in six bonuses. To induce the
establishment of factories a sum of £5200 in 26
bonuses is offered for butter, cheese, dried and
canned fruits, dried vegetables, &c. The highest
bonus in this section is one of £750 for the pro-
duction of not less than 50 tons of dressed flax.
The colony is divided into three bonus districts
with an apportionment of £5200 for each district,
in all £15,000 in 78 bonuses for the colony. For
wines, £6OOO is submitted in three bonuses re-
spectively of £3OOO, £2OOO, and £1000; a total
of £IB,OOO in nine bonuses for the colony.
In the section to promote an improved local mar-
ket for existing agricultural products and a
demand for new ones, a sum of £3650 is offered in
84 bonuses for dairy-produced butter, cheese, bacon
mdhams, and every kind of fruit, the almond,
various kinds of nuts, wine of the present year’s
vintage, cider, raisin grapes, grapes suitable for
export, Zante currants, flax, hemp, and other fibre
plants, tobacco, and cigar leaf, silk in the cocoon,
olive oils, ensilage products; syrup from the amber
cane, flowers suitable for perfumery, arrowroot,
linseed, paper, and medicinal and dye plants.
Taking the sums apportioned for each district,
this section gives a total for the colony of £10,950,
submitted in 252 bonuses, reaching £IOO in the
highest, and averaging about £45 each. In addi-
tion to these steps, the Victorian Government
purposes to spend a considerable sum on technical
education. For this a sum of £IO,OOO has been
apportioned for expenditure during the present
year. This is real statesmanship.
The Parliament of New Zealand threatens to lay
a Vandal hand on the sacred ark of “ Proputty.”
A hideous Bill of a Gothic character is being
levelled at the elect whom Heaven hath blessed
with long rows of houses and bulgy bank balances ;
—d a scheme is in progress which —in the opinion
many chosen vessels who collect their rents
jularly and bank them in a chastened spirit—is
Iculated to call down the fate of Sodom and
imorrah on the city of Wellington, and make
iristchurch a waste place after the manner of
cient Ashdod. A legislator of dark, blood-
irsty, and meddlesome character employed him-
[f recently in an exhaustive inquiry into the
rnership of the principal houses of ill-fame in
ockland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin,
d other towns; and, having ascertained that
ey belonged almost without exception to bright
d shining lights of the church —gentlemen with
11-toppers and large prayer-books whose voices
jre heard in the holy hymn on Sundays and
st-days—he introduced a measure which pro-
dod that these persons should be subject to £IOO
th the alternative of six months. It was a
ean and underhand scheme, and a good many
□us legislators don’t know what to do about it,
they vote against the Bill they will be going
,ck on the record of a long life of usefulness, and
they vote for it and it becomes law they will either
.ve to discharge their best tenants or else be hauled
) with the descendants of Belial in the Police
jurt. Some of them have taken refuge from the
■oblem in drink, and some have resorted to
ayer and applied for spiritual guidance, but the
indish difficulty stands before them as large as
er —£1,00 or six months. And six months in a
Id, damp cell, with intervals of stone-crushing,
an awful outrage on the sacred character of
Proputty.” It will probably be many years
ifore the Huns of New South Wales will attempt
i offer such an insult to the god of boodle, but if
similar Bill is ever introduced in the bear-garden
the “mother ” colony it will be a cold and slip-
jry day for at least one of the first-class usurers
Sydney. At the present moment this alleged
mtlemanownsl2ormo.e“disorderly” houses, and
hen his brethren call down a blessing upon him
ley are praying for the rent.
+
,s might have been anticipated, Sir Henry
arkes made the extension of a Sydney boot-
ictory the other day a textual peg on which to
ang a Freetrade eulogy. He, of course, urged
xat if such large firms as M‘Murtrie’s and
[unter’s could carry on business successfully
nder Freetrade, that “the creature Protection ”
as clearly unnecessary. He was not, however,
□nest enough to point out that these firms prosper
,r more by reason of their sale of the imported
fticle than of the native production. He con-
miently forgot to speak of the many small boot-
ictories that have been crushed out by a foreign-
•ade policy, and neglected to show that the chief
ipport of the Sydney shoemaker is “repairs,”
Ingland not being quite near enough to mono-
olise that inferior branch of a great industry.
fas have waited several weeks in the hope that
me of the Freetrade journals of Sydney would
Efer a coherent explanation of the following in-
vesting item. As they have not done so, how-
ler, we publish it in all the horror of its bald
Efensiveness, and ask what on earth it means :
“ At the annual meeting of the Cobden Club, Mr. James
ictox, M.P., referred to the Fair-trade movement, and
the opinion that the tendency war increasing
mong fire public to think that Freetrade was being
rrried too far, and that there was need of Protection
jainst cheap importation. ... A paper was read on
air-trade, predicting its speedy triumph. 1 ’
'hat’s all. The members of the Cobden Club
ave begun to call for Protection, and papers
arsing Foreign-trade are read to the association
rhich takes its name from the first of the English
'oreign-traders without anybody being killed and
ffered up as a burnt sacrifice. When the China-
man proceeds to welt his own Joss, and the
British publican turns his back on rum, and
he Catholic sells his images for road-metal,
nd the Orangeman publiclv damns Dutch
Villiam, the size and weight and awfulness of
his falling off may be faintly appreciated, and
’arkes may begin to realise the nature of the
atastrophe which has befallen his old-age super-
bition.
+
iOMETHING like 12 months ago South Australia
ame to the conclusion that its old-established
Geetrade policy was played out. In these days
hings were about as bad with the Crow-eaters as
hey could well be. For five years the revenue
lad shown a continuous shortage, and though a
ax had been levied on everything in sight that
;ould be taxed without going back on the great
jolicy of Cobdenism, the revenue kept on getting
ihorter, while financial disaster grew longer and
nore numerous. All Adelaide was emptying
tself into Melbourne, and grass was growing
n the untrodden streets of the ruined capi-
jal. Everywhere the colony was endeavouring
jo face the problem of living on sixpence a
lay when the sixpence wasn’t there, and every-
where the problem was being given up in despair,
lb was when things were about at their worst
md all was emptiness and desolation that Parkes
paid a flying visit to Adelaide and held forth to a
ruined country and a Government which was
more than half inclined to drown the cares of
office in the flowing bowl, about the glorious re-
sults which invariably accrued from a policy of
Freetrade, and it says much for the endurance
of the South Australian population that
nothing was actually thrown at his head
in the course of these proceedings. Since
then, however, South Australia has lost
its hold upon the truth, and has fallen from
the grace which is built upon cheap imported
shirts, and boobs made from cowhides grown in
the land of our fathers. And the results of this
backsliding are sad to contemplate. The annual
deficiency has been already abolished, and a sur-
plus of £IOO,OOO, as the results of 12 months of
Protection, shows that the colony is again in a
fair way to attain solvency. The exodus which
threatened to reduce Adelaide to the level
of Nineveh or Thebes has almost entirely
ceased, and the surplus labour has been
absorbed by new industries which are spring-
ing up and flourishing in every direction.
A population, which for years has lived on faith
and taters, is beginning to enjoy prosperity once
more—and the Sydney daily press points to the
silver lodes of Broken Hill as the real and only
source of this great revival. But somehow the
Broken Hill silver boom has had no effect on
Sydney, except to leave it poorer and more stag-
nant and petrified than before. It is no good
offering silver to a corpse.
♦
The Bishop of Goulburn weeps over the demise
of the Hon. C. Campbell, M.L.C. He told his
congregation on Sunday that the dead layman
was singularly conversant with the Greek Testa-
ment, “ which he daily read,” and that he and his
three brothers had, among them, given close on
£IOO,OOO to the Church in Goulburn. But a man
may be a good Greek scholar and contribute
liberally to ecclesiastical purposes, and be yet of
very little service to the army of human progress.
In the case of the Bishop’s exemplary layman it
is right to note that Mr. Campbell considered the
men of New South Wales worse now than they
used to be, and that the deterioration was owing
“to the spread of a false humanitarianism which
discountenances the lash.”
*
Dear Bulletin,— l saw in a.copy of The Bul-
letin the other day a paragraph stating that at
Lyttelton, N.Z., shorb-sentenca prisoners are
employed road-making, &c., tricked out in all the
magnificence of prison regalia. You need not
have taken a voyage to Maoriland to make a dis-
covery of the kind. In New South Wales, in the
streets of the western town of Hay, short-sen-
tence prisoners are employed on corporation
work, or work that ought to be performed by cor-
poration labourers, and these unfortunates are
dressed in the “ croppy ” suits, broad-arrow-
stamped, which points them out and sears them
into men’s memories for ever. It’s no good trying
bo reform. Your offence may have been of the
paltriest, but no matter, you are out of life’s race
to the very end, for no one forgets a face seen
peering furtively over prison moles.—Yours,
Hay-bag.
+
Here is a letter written to the London Daily
Chronicle
“ Sir, —Without entering into the details of the dispute
between Messrs. Bryant and May and their workpeople,
is it not pertinent to inquire whence the enormous strength
of a firm of this character is mainly derived, and the chief
source of the weakness of those on strike ? Is it not the
case that the firm has, under existing conditions, only to
threaten to close its works in England and remove all its
manufacturing operations to another country (as indeed
has already been done in part), and the workpeople are
helpless ? For by so doing the firm would be actually the
gainer. Its market within the United Kingdom would
still be its own, and without contributing even the quota
it now does to the rates and taxes of the country. But
its quondam employed would starve or do worse during
the exhaustive, and perhaps impossible, process of seeking
‘ something else.’ Is this the kind of competition which
is natural or wholesome as between class and class ? But,
given an import duty sufficient to countervail the pre-
judice thus done to British labour for the benefit (1) of
foreign workpeople, (2) the capitalists who employ
them, and (3) perchance the shipowner who carries
the matches by sea, the inducement to remove the
labour from our own people would be gone. True,
matches might be dearer. But starvation or semi-starva-
tion, the prostitution of girls, and the degradation of the
labour classes would be arrested. Is it really worth while
to be able to buy matches at 2d. or 3d. the dozen boxes at
the cost (1) of the flesh and blood of our fellow creatures at
our gates, and (2) of the restriction of the consuming
power of the people by thus reducing them to a condition
of ‘ white slavery ?’ Our fiscal policy, however, stands in
the way of the only practical remedy. It does not, indeed,
forbid import duties. On the contrary, it encourages the
institution to a greater extent on the amount levied than
in any other European country. But it says that such
duties shall not be raised in any case where their action
is likely to be of the slightest benefit to any portion of the
community. How long will a common-sense people per-
sist in such folly ? ”
This makes excellent reading in New South Wales.
The power of the sceptre and the sword rests on
the power of the curse. Where people believe
that the priest has in his keeping the key of hell
the rule of Democracy is unknown. Thus in all
ages the bayonet has rested on the altar and the
crown has balanced itself on the crook of the
crozier. The abolition of priestcraft means the
abolition of war and the abolition of the
kingly office. The new German Kaiser re-
cognises this. He is not such a fool as his
father. He is a true pupil of Bismarck’s.
Accordingly, William 111. recently received in a
very frigid manner a deputation of Berlin munici-
pal councillors, some of whom held very broad
and liberal views on the subject of religion, and
dismissed them with the words: “ Make it your
business to see that more churches are built in
Berlin.”
In a notice of Charles Warner’s acting of
“ Hamlet,” after enumerating the qualities of this
particular drama, dwelling on its scope, its range
of passion and emotion, its sturdy character, its
metaphysical speculation, its vivid realism, its
fatalism, its faith, its acuteness, the S.M.
Herald’s critic remarked
« It is no marvel that people are beginning to doubt
the authorship of Shakespeare’s plajs, and to refer
them to Lord Keeper Bacon rather than to the obscure
player who was said to be so accommodating as to lend
him his name.”
Why do people doubt that Shakespeare was the
author of the plays attributed to him ? According
to the S M. Herald, because he was an obscure
player. Why do they refer them to Bacon ?
Because, according to the S.M. Herald, he was
Lord Keeper. The Herald dearly loves a lord.
Yet the Herald forgets, if it ever knew, that
Shakespeare is only one —the greatest, perhaps —
but still one of a great brotherhood. The glory
of English literature was at that time the Drama.
Dispose of Shakespeare’s plays as being written
by Lord Bacon, what is the Herald going to do
about Ben Jonson, Kit Marlowe, Myddleton,
Massinger, Ford, Dekkar, Webster, Beau-
mont and Fletcher, Shirley, Chapman, and many
others, whose works, though inferior to Shakes-
peare's, stand otherwise in the whole range of
English literature, unapproached and unapproach-
able ? Did Bacon write these also ? Did any lord
or princeling write the poems attributed to Caed-
mon, the Saxon swineherd? Did John op Gaunt
write Chaucer's “ Canterbury Tales ” ? Was Wil-
liam Langland a myth ? In all the mediocre list
of royal and noble authors there is only one bright
name — By'ron. Otway, Dbyden, Pope, Richard-
son, Burns, Goldsmith, Johnson, Chatterton,
Keats, Southey, Carlyle, were the sons of poor
clergymen, farmers, labourers, tradesmen, and
shop-keepers, the sort of men who would now be
brusquely bowed out of Australian softgoods
society on account of the insignificance of their
family connections and their poverty of influence.
Bacon is unlikely to have written Shakespeare s
plays because he was Lord Keeper. They are
the productions of a poet, not of a statesman or a
man of public business. The Herald apparently
inclines to the belief that Bacon wrote them be-
cause he was a lord and wore a coronet. The only
lords that shine as great men of letters are those
lords who have earned their titles by their pens.


CORRESPONDENCE
“0.5.” : Wasn’b it Dickens who said something
to the effect that, although no man who baked could pos-
sibly be genteel, a brewer might be regarded as the very
salt of the earth ? “ H.E.” (Merriwa): We decline posi
tively to “ publish the enclosed in a conspicuous part of
our valuable paper.” “Camoens”: You are an insult
to the memory of the old Portuguese poet. He never
talked about a homestead being “ heard.” Besides, you
don’t hear homesteads in this country “A.T.” (Rose-
dale) : After reading your items we are too excited for
utterance “K.K.” (Mt. M‘D.): There are such com-
munities. In the commune of Klingenberg, on the bank
of the Main, the people pay no taxes. Each househclde
there receives from the Communal Administration an
annual sum of 240 marks ; and hereafter, as reported, h
is to receive in addition five Mres of firewood...
“F.D.” (S. Yarra): Thanks “M’Creedie”: “Hi
Story ” (re H.P.) his been accepted, but is held over...
“ F.S.S.” (Up North): Too savage. Besides, it is hardly
of public inte.isb. Send us something printable...
“Vraiment”: The hash seems to have entered into you
soulJ.J.” (E.); You are too sober and too painfully
accurate to be a poet. There are signs of this fatal ten
dency in your very first verse
“ Oh ! white man, you took our fair regions,
You taught us to smoke and to drink,
And you know in your hearts of the legions
Of poor blacks you have tended to sink.”
Your pome would also tend to the sink were it more
liquid, but as it is so very solid wa have had to put
it into the dust-bin....“ Marion Goss” (Launceston
Tas.) : Thanks for your letter. Will examine enclosure
“ Alick ” (Collingwood): Neat item ; will use
“ Glenmorris ” (Albury): Thanks for clipping, which
however, you forgot to enclose “ Old 4T9R ” : The
story of Dr. Lang’s alleged perjury is well-known,
and involved litigation in which Dr. West, of the S.M.
Herald was a prominent witness, but the whole case was
of too trivial a character to rake up to the old doctor’s
prejudice. After all, “He mortuis nil nisi bonum ” may
not be altogether logical, but when the good outweigb 8
the evil by so much, as in Lang’s case, it is at least mag.
nanimous to endorse it “A.J,”: The population of
Sydney is 352,000 and of Melbourne 393,000.... “ Honi
We are not a slang dictionary or an authority on idiotic
language. When a “ bully youth with a glass eye ”
comes to us for the derivation of a cargo of obscure
sayings we prefer to pass “Nimrod”: Excellent
“E.W.”: “Scotty the Wrinkler” has mysteriously dis-
appeared. It is, however, alleged that his retirement is
connected with the approaching publication of a book to
be entitled “The Life and Times of Jaoky Dow.”
“5.5.8.”: In Canada education is compulsory. School-
fees are leviable whether the pupils attend or not
“Kismet”: We want the workman to be active, not
passive, that’s all “ A E. 8.” : As we have no proper
cognisance of the facts of your case, we cannot, we fear,
say anything about it “ A.A ”: “How many clergy-
men are on the share-lists of the Sydney brewery com-
panies?” We don’t kn0w....“ H.O H.”: Good. By-
and-by....“Helix”: Still further held 0ver....” E.E.”:
Parkes has granted money to the Chinamen, but it is un-
fair to say that he is grateful to the Chinamen who, no
doubt, have politically and financially been very liberal to
Parkes. The Chinamen have also been of the greatest
service to several people who, whilst making a deal of use
of the Anti-Chinese movement as agitators, have not
scrupled to pocket the rents of tenements let to Chinamen
and used as gambling-dens “ Walter Lloyd ”: We have
heard scores of exceptionally intelligent men—barristers,
doctors, clergymen, journalists—express strongly thei r
opinion that the execution of Hewart will, in the interest
of justice, be a lamentable mistake, and yet no strong
public movement has been made in the direction of seour.
ing a reprieve. The apathy shown by the public in all
matters concerning the administration of justice goes to
prove that N.S.W. is not yet fit to rank as a civilised
country among the nations of the earth. Hewart’s case is
another good specimen “police case.” “M.F.H.G.”:
Yes; in Indian ink on Bristol-board. We may
possibly use your single-figure sketch “ Epi-
Armib ” : Thanks, but we’ve had it already
“ S.S.W.” : As neither Mr. Howe nor Mr. Martin is known
to possess any special aptitude for Parliament, The Bul-
letin regards the Redfern election as a choice between a
couple of nonentities “ Subscriber ” : Mr. Byrnes, in
whose hands the fund is, tells us that he has at credit
enough mpney to keep Roy going for some months to
c0me....“ 0.C.J.”: Well, now, suppose the United
States, after building up its colossal industries under
Protection, were to revert to Freetrade, would it follow
that N.S.W., which, so far, has not given artificial support
to any industries whatever, should never try Protection ?
....“Oyster Johnnie” (Wardell): Good par. Thanks!
“ Curly Bill ” (Melbourne): The “ letter ”is very well
written, but the sentiment is “off.” “Hawthorn”:
Send the other half of your letter along and we will print
it “ A.W.” (Chancery Lace, Melb.): Hardly of suffi-
cient point to publish ; however, similar items are always
acceptable “ Syd. J.” (Tintaldra): Received.. ..“Jere-
miah Jubkings”: Your “screed” is too voluminous
to be swallowed in a single dose, so we shall serve
it out homoepathically to the members of our staff
and give you our verdict next Jubilee “ V.W.” :
If you really want M.SS. to be treated with that courtesy
for which we are famed, write only on one side of
yourpaper—“lndionam”: The example in question,
which has so seriously heated your blood, is only one of
many petty, m»an, and discreditable dodges on the part
of various Australian papers to rob The Bulletin of its
title, its cover, its pars., and its cartoons “Miss
Murphy ” : The whole affair is, to us, a dark and dreadful
mystery.
Dr. George Marshall, the well-known
Sydney surgeon, has died of paralysis.
The costs in the action Dibbs v. Sydney
Daily Telegraph will amount to at least £4OOO.
In a Sydney court the other day Michael
Collins was fined £3 because he wasn’t present to
serve on a jury, and as he was still absent on the
ensuing day he was fined £lO, accompanied by
stern language from the judge, who vowed that
he would bring Michael along or know the reason
why. Things thus degenerated into a duel be-
tween Michael and the judge, but the former took
a mean advantage of his opponent by having been
dead and buried for a long time, and the majestic
organ of the law can’t vindicate its dignity this
trip.
The Fall of M‘Ilwraith.
The Cabinet of Sir Thomas MTlwraith, after
an existence extending over the brief space of a
few months, has run against a snag, and Sir
Samuel Griffith has been summoned to form a
Ministry. The resignation of the MTlwraith
Government takes Australia by surprise. At the
recent elections its chief was called to power by
an overwhelming majority of the population, and
as the head of the first avowedly Nationalist Ad-
ministration ever formed in Australia, his position
seemed imnregnable. But within a very few
weeks it became evident that a Nationalist
Cabinet and a Governor of Imperialistic
sympathies, whose special mission it was to up-
hold the alleged dignity of the British Empire
and to grasp with a tenacious hand the “preroga-
tives ” of the British Crown, woujd never work
together, Queensland had given an almost unani-
mous vote for a policy whose ultimate aim was
Australian independence, and the one man whom
the_ country paid—against its will—to thwart the
desires of the nation at once commenced to play a
lone hand in the business of obstruction. The
question which ultimately led to the resig-
nation of the Ministry was one in which
the Governor played a miserably und'gnified
part, but small and stupid men often take a
prominent share in making history, and, as a
rule, it is not until the event is past that they
fully realise the importance of their own actions.
In ancient times the geese saved the Roman State
from destruction, and the old parable is one which
can read equally well in an inverted position.
These unintelligent animals might as easily have
wrecked as saved an empire, and an equally unin-
telligent animal may, with similar facility, wreck
an empire to-day. The Crown’s prerogative of
mercy, or rather of withholding mercy, is the sub-
ject of the present dispute. Some little time ago the
Queensland Cabinet recommended the release of an
obscure prisoner, then undergoing a sentence on
what it regarded as insufficient evidence, and the
Governor promptly declined to pay any attention
to the opinions of his advisers. In other words,
he took his stand on the royal prerogative of
brutality, and in addition to the Crown’s tight to
grant mercy he claimed an exclusive right to re-
fuse mercy, even when it was demanded by the
unanimous voice of a Government with an over-
whelming majority at its back. The Nationalist
Cabinet thus found itself with only two alterna-
tives —to resign, or to submit to the will of
a deputy-autocrat who apparently failed
to realise that the day of absolutism was past.
Several weeks of discussion and popular indigna-
tion followed, but the temporary assistant Kh'ng
refused to move, and the MTlwraith Cabinet
has therefore requested him to find more com-
plaisant and servile instruments. As we
write, the Governor has appealed to Sir
Samuel Griffith to form a Ministry, but with
only a disorganised fragment of a party at his
back and an angry nation to oppose him his
chances are small beyond calculation. Either the
Governor must surrender or the political system
of Queensland must degenerate into chaos with
revolution looming in the distance.
The Orlando.
The Orlando, the new British flagship on the
Australian station, has turned out a colossal fraud.
Dark and deadly whispers concerning her steal
about amongst the ships in Sydney harbour, and
hushed is the voice of journalistic jubilation at the
receipt of this English floating bulwark. The
public, however, know that all is not as it ought
to be with the Orlando, and facts will squirt through
the fingers of the Press when it tries to stifle the
voice of Truth. The colonies know that this
bragged-of ironclad was a failure. They knew it
before she left England, and The Bulletin had a
paragraph about the matter a week before her
anchors struck bottom in Farm Cove. Now,
there are rumours of all sorts of things that never
find their way into the columns of the daily Ji go-
Foreign-trade prints—mutiny of the crew in con-
sequence of a short allowance of food being servi d
out, officers doing their walches with loaded revol-
vers, the death of some of the sailors by suffocation
—the important and serious along with the unim-
portant and trivial. The mutiny was partly the
result of the inconveniences and discomforts under
which the sailors suffered in the discharge of their
duties, inconveniences and discomforts comequent
upon the utter incompetency of the people who
designed the Orlando, a boat which we were p ar-
ticular ly informed was of an entirely new de-
scription, one of the finest iron clads afloat, a sea-
foing fortress of the most advanced type which
ad cost hundreds of thousands of pounds—and
all this rhetorical varnish has been wasted on a
failure ! The worst aspect of the Orlando fiasco
is that she is not a solitary experiment but one of
a new class now condemned and—sent to Austra-
lia. And this, ye gods ! is one of the much-
vaunted benefits of the Imperial connec-
tion. Left to ourselves we should cer-
tainly be responsible for our own defence, and
we should know what to do, but just contemplate
the ludicrousness and insecurity of our position
when the unthinking and apathetic part of our
community put their faith and their fortunes
under the protection of a tin-pot and rotten
British navy, which throughout every arm of the
service follows the lead of the incompetence and
ignorance displayed in the selection of its highest
officers—fiddle-playing snd hop-growing warriors
of the Duke of Edinburgh description. This, ye
sycophantic grovellers to the Imperial connection
and sticklers for the Naval Defence subsidy, is
what Australia gets for her money. For the bull-
dog _ courage of the English nation we have
nothing bat admiration. Our remarks refer
not to Englishmen, hut to the evil-smelling and
disgraceful administration of English governmental
departments, which, judging from what takes
place in the highest quarters, is shaky and worm-
eaten from head to foot. Even the English sailor is
not of the stuff of which his grandfather was made.
Men, and especially Englishmen, cannot fight on
empty stomachs, and the service which does not
provide enough bread and meat for its watch-
dogs, is on the high-road that endeth in national
dishonour. Compare the English navy with the
sturdy naval armaments of France and Germany,
and then calculate how much Australia is pro-
tected by the jpresence of a British iron-fraud
against an attack of either these powers. There
has been a great official pow-wow amongst the
men-of-war in Sydney Harbour, but never a word
has transpired as to the result.
Some months ago Mud J. Haynes stumped New
South Wales on his free pass and the Decentrali-
sation racket and established branches in various
centres, notably one at Bathurst. Here the idea
was grabbed at by all the Calico Jimmies and
Foreign-traders, who imagined they saw in the
Mudgee man’s scheme a wet blanket for Protec-
tion. The Bathurst branch, however, has gone bung,
and the City of the Plains is in a state of practical
insolvency. One of the finest towns in the
Southern Hemisphere, having a splendid climate,
great natural resources, close communication by rail
with the seaboard, yet it has between two and three
hundred houses empty ! Its erstwhile principal
street —George—has a score of large shops idle.
The splendid land surrounding the city, thousands
of acres, are in the hands of seven men, and are
used for grazing purposes, while there is not a
single manufactory in the place. How many
other towns in N.S.W. are in a similar plight?
When will the N.S.W. people wake up and apply
hob-nailed boots to the coat-tails of the alleged
statesmen who are ruining the country to enrich a
few soft-goods importers?
The Sydney Benetolent Asylum is an institution
of advancing prosperity. Its “ Rise and Pro-
gress”— immortal phrase—have ere now inspired
various more or less gifted sagrs to spread them-
selves over the columns of the daily press and
crow and chuckle with much hilarity over the
total number of cases treated per annum, and the
vast superiority in point of numbers of New South
Wales over every other Australasian colony in
the matter cf derelict mothers and unchartered
births. In the one instance of the little images of
sin who come into the world on a free-pass and
without the matrimonial credit-cheque, the
glorious Freetrade sunbright scandal-patch, over
which the poet Paekes waves his alban name,
scores hieh indeed. In this one Freetrade indus-
try the eclipse coPny is first and the rest nowhere.
They begin at an early age, too, do these fair and
festive creatures who supply the sensations at the
Quarter Sessions. Recently, at the Sydney Water
Police Court, it was stated that two girls of 14
summers had per medium of the Benevolent
Asylum added to the unlicensed population of the
colony. By the time they reach the age of 17
each may have her meed of four boys hanged at
the New Year.
It is not generally known that Mr. Walker, the
Victorian Minister of Customs, has the power to
remit duties on imported goods when he feels so
disposed, without consulting his colleagues, or
enlightening the colony as to these little arrange-
ments. An importer represents to Mr. Walker
that he can do no good with a certain lot of mer-
chandise unle's it comes in free, and then the
sympathetic Minister gives his supplicant a special
pass in the interests of Victorian trade. Ocher im-
porters may meekly accept the situation, and thus
it occasionally comes about that the country mer-
chant or manufactu*er is paying duty on at tides
which his Melbourne competitor gets on “the
‘Walker.’’ That this irresponsible trifling with
the Tariff requires to be closely watched goes
wuhout saying. The present Autocrat of the
Customs is confidently believed to be an honest
man, but he is the more likely to be hoodwinked
on that very account. Anyway, Mr. Walker
cannot hold his billet for all time, and it is within
the region of probability that some of his suc-
cessors will be rogues or fools. Finally, it seems
absurd for an expensive Assembly to occupy many
nights in fixing up a Tariff which can be set aside
at the discretion of one man.
Hic Jacet Caddy.
The other day, in Melbourne, poor libtle Caddy
laid down his life beneath a tram-car. What
reams upon reams of verse Caddy wrote for The
Bulletin upon other men whose weary lives
were knocked out of them by the tram ! and now,
with a certain amount of poetic consistency, he
has shared their fate. And yet he could hardly
have come to his end more appropriately. With
him the tram-motor was only the embodiment of
the Juggernaut of adverse circumstances he had
for years been fighting. Caddy was a school-
master, and once held a high position in the Edu-
cational Department of victoria. But the life
was a narrow life. He chafed against matching
his brain with the immaturity of childhood. His
early training was cribbed and c.ffined in. His
education had been strictly religious in its charac-
ter. He had been christened Wesley. With an
eager desire to swim into the ocean of thought and
action, and to buffet in the sea in which bis fel-
lows struggled and sometimes conquered, Caddy
shook the dust of the school-floor from off the
soles of untried feet and plunged into the vortex
of newspaper-work. He was a bright little
man of considerable attainments. His pen
was ready, and his touch was light and ver-
satile. But the erstwhile schoolmaster, weighed
down with a heavy burden of paternal duty and
urge d togreater effort than his feeble frame can bear
by the wants of half-a-dozen children, is ill-fitted to
fight the fight of the journalist. Circumstances are
harder to combat than the wills of sulky brats,
and a staunch heart and an iron back are needed
in the life in which Caddy engaged. Caddy
lacked the iron back, so he went down before the
tram-car of a journalistic career. He was quiet
and inoffensive, and bore his troubles with a
childish meekness. He glided through the shades
of his bitter lot with a deprecatory ghostlike
movement that discounts somewhat the idea
of his being killed by anything so rude and
tangible as a street motor. He was an apt versi-
fier, and wrote hundreds of lines which have in
times past appeared in this paper. From amongst
many we select at random the following little
poem descriptive of the fate of Mudge whose end,
like that of the pcet, was of a tragic kind
The total area of land alienated from the
Crown in Victoria is 26,267,021 acr:s.
Governor Caringtcn will now not go home.
He has braced himself up with Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
One hundred Egyptian cigarettes for six
shillings ! Vide Warren and Rown’s advertise-
ment on page 14 of this day’s Bulletin.
A prominent man in the N.S.W. Miners’
Association says that the strike of the Newcastle
colliers will continue to the bitter end, and that
Christmas is unlikely to see it through.
Things are cut so fine now in the N.S.W.
Supreme Court that the Sheriff's coachman acts
as a court-attendant, and the usual officials have
been superseded by day-wages men.
Mr. John Hurley, M.L.A. of N S.W., has
been intfrvitwed by Melbourne Herald in re his
views of the Newcastle coal strike. Mr. John
Hurley should now be interviewed in re the Aus-
tralian Banking Co.
St. David’s Cathedral, Hobart, was gaily
thronged on Thursday week when Mr. Octavius
Lord was married to Miss Ida Watchorn. The
bride looked very pretty and wore satin and pearls,
and the bridesmaids royal blue and cream.
A letter recently published, addressed to
Judge Murray, discloses the fact that a juryman
in the Maxwell assault case, recently tried at Lis-
more (N.S.W.), declared he would “rather eat
his boots ” than let one of the accused be
convicted.
It has been ascertained in France that
by photographing messages through a micro-
scopic lense, on a thin film of collodion, 40 000
words can be sent by a single pigeon. The docu-
ment was enclosed in a goosequill, and then
fastened to one of the tail feathers.
Father Fouhey, of Brisbane, objects to
the local papers putting “Irish ” after the names
of some of the police-court “drunks.” The ob-
jection is reasonable. The name itself is in most
cases enough. How, for instance, can a man
named Mickey Hooligan drink lemonade ?
When H B M.S. Nelson finally left
Sydney harbour the other day, her band nlaved
“The Girl I Left Behind Me.'” The only girl the
Nelson’s gallant officers have left behind them is
the girl without money. The man with gilt but-
tons always wants a girl with gold buttons.
Would not much satisfaction be earn ed to
those concerned, if the examiners of papers
written at public examinations returned the cor-
rected papers to the candidates ? This is a novel
idea, but ib has a direct educational value. The
Bulletin would be glad to hear the grounds of ob-
jection to this scheme.
The Bulletin’s concluding chapter of the
“Illustrated History of Botany Bay” will be
published in next week's issue. The history will
be published in book-form in about one month
from this date. Agents are requested to mail
their orders for copies without delay. The first
edition wil consist of 20,000 copies, three-
fourths of which have been already ordered by the
Bade.
In connection with tha rumoured resig-
nation of Lord Carington (Oh, dismal thought')
a recent cablegram states that Sir John Gorst is
mentioned as his probable successor. He is the
bloated personage for whom the Indian press
have made their country so warm on account of his
alleged complicity in the Hyderabad silver-
“ fakements.”
Says Mr. Martin, Foreign-trade candidate
for Redfern
“I declare myself uncompromisingly and without re-
serve to be a supporter of freedom in all matters, whether
vty 1 ' and I would no more surrender my
liberty of industry than I would give up my liberty of
conscience.” J
Ly liberty of industry ” does Mr. Martin mean
liberty m land-agency matters ?
We hear on good authority that the Lon-
don Gaiety Burlesque Company was sent out by
Albert Edward, who took pity on Carington’s
lonely lot, dontcherknow, and was desirous of
making his stay in the “blawsted kawlonies ”
agreeable to the dear boy. It is better than a
play to watch the faces of the males of the Sydney
Government House party light up during the
progress of the ballet. “Ah, this is something
like ! Makes a fellow feel as if he were at heme
in dear old England ! ” It is rumoured that since
the arrival of Leslie and Co. His Ex, has had bis
yawn packed up in a trunk labelled: “Wanted
on the voyage.”
The Victorian Schanschieff Electric Light
and Power Company has received splendid re-
ports from Sir William Thomson, F.R.S , LL D.,
Professor of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow
University, and from Mr. W. H. Preece. F.R.S.,
Chief Electrician of the Government Telegraph
Department, in reference to the value of the
bebanseb’eff Battery and Miners’ Electro-safety
lamps. Extensive experiments have been con-
ducted at Ballarat and elsewhere, and the Aus-
tralian press is unanimous in praising these in-
ventions. The Schanschitff Battery and Electro-
safety lamp are the property of Miss Alice Corn-
well (“Princess Midas”) the enterprising
speculatrix.
In the course of an address to his Tele-
graph Point constituents, represented by three
men, a goat, and a native bear, our friend Mr.
Speaker Young, of the N.S.W. Assembly,
modestly observed “that the Speaker of the Assem-
bly was supposed to be the must able person in
the House, and he considered it a feather in his
cap to be in that position.” On hearing this the
bear walked sorrowfully off and battered out i‘s
brains against a gum-tree, but the goat, more
wise in its generation, plucked up courage, and
philosophically remarked that if the present
Speaker was the most able man in the House he
didn’t see why a goat of his abilities should nob
stand a firsb- dais show of being a Premier. The
three men simply said “ Well, I’m d d!” and
then went away and to k to drink.
The Sydney D.T , in the course of a
Fader on the coming Redfern (N.S.W.) election,
publishes the following astounding sample of local’
and parochial ignorance
“It was the cry of the ‘National party’ that gained
the Protec'ionists a victory at (he Ute general elections in
QueensUnd ; and the Redfern Protectionists are evidently
endeavouring to utilise the young Australians in a similar
manner.”
Even the blank incapacity of the D.T. must know,
if it knows anvthing or has anything to know
with, that Griffith as well as M llwraith made
Protection one of the leading features of his pro-
gramme, and that whether the Nationalists won
or lost Protection was equally certain, for the
simple reason that the Foreign trade party had
died of mental atrophy and hardly one Foreign-
trader went to the poll. The tariff question was a
foregone conclusion before the election began, and
being accepted in advance by both sides it had no
more bearing on the contest than it had upon the
Battle of Hastings or the fall of Bab: lon.
“IT’S ALL THE SAME TO MUDCE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The Thargomindah (Q.) paper reprrts that a man
named Mudge had been drowned in the river ; that where
the bcdy was discovered, a week afterwards, it was taken
up above high water mark and there buried without
coffin or inquest. Thargomindah was greatly excited
over the affiair, but, for our j art, we think
“It’s all the same to Mudge.
“ The world spins round now all the same
And seasons come and go ;
And millions live, and millions die,
Just as they used to do.
Some live in luxury all their days,
Whilst others toil and drudge ;
And milliors weep and millions laugh—
It’s all the same to Mudge.
“ Above his head the fleecy clouds
Are drifting through the sky ;
Birds warble in the rustling leaves,
The river rushes by ;
Though he owns nothing in the world,
He bears the rich no grudge,
The poor and rich may fight it out—
It's all the same to Mudge.
“ Not his the giant pyramid,
High piled with sacred stones,
To mirk where of some nameless king
Are laid the crumbling bones ;
He sleeps as well within his cell,
Just lightly wrapped in sludge,
• As men in rich-carved marble vaults—
It's all the same to Mudge.
“ And when the last trump shall sound
That bids us all arise.
And some must tramp it down below,
And others mount the skies,
He’ll answer prc mpt as any Pope,
When Michael bids him budge—
‘ I’m here, dear Duke, where shall I tramp ?’
It’s all the same to Mudge.


Q R. R U Kfl N E Y
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will be happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE “WONHEE” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 63,785 Miles,
The trip to ST. ALBANS is a perfect “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “Wonder”
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world.
Ask at the Coach Office, HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for all particulars.
Sundry Shows.
Thhateb Royal.—“ Gaiety Burlesque Com-
w i ™pany” p. 18
Her Majesty’s. —“ Lights o’ London ”,
Alhambea. —Minstrelsy
Academy of Music. —Federal Minstrels „
Obiterion. — “The Candidate ”
“ The Candidate ” went through the pro-
gramme of his woes at Sydney Criterion on Satur-
day in the presence of a large audience, which
evidently felt for him. As a rule, people feel for
a candidate with extinct cats and pieces of ruin,
but in the present instance they felt with genuine
sorrow, and cheered when his affairs began at last
to get square. Mr. Harry St. Maur—we don’t
believe, by-the-way, that there ever was a saint
of that name, and, anyhow, he sounds as im-
probable as a St. Thompson or an evangelist
Camp—played in brilliant style as Lord
Launcelot Oldacre, a gentleman whose wife
owned a mother, and who was badly in want of a
little recreation. In the very first act he declared
himself tired of the gilded halls in which the
origin of his wife’s existence used to jaw amid blue
china, and to nag surrounded by articles of vertu;
and he desired to get away to London for a spell
in order to attend a few prayer-meetinga, and find
some kindred soul to hear him say his catechism,
and look up some pious and temperate friends
who would accompany him to hear Moody and
Sankey. In his absence, he engaged his secretary
to personate him in the presence of a body of in-
telligent electors, r.nd by dint of promising to
abolish everything and annihilate everybody and
haul the solar system behind him and scare the
spheres into convulsions this literary individual
won the election, and covered the Tory name of
Oldacre with mud and fluff and gbry. And
here the author strikes an imperishable truth, for
he makes it distinctly evident that the aristocrat
won the election solely by staying away, and, con-
sequently, that the more persistently he
is away the better he is likely to get
on. The great mistake of the British
peerage is that it isn’t away far enough or long
enough ; and a painstaking study of the “ Can-
didate” proves that if the House of Lords went
away six times as often as it came back, and if it
died as much as possible while it was away, its
chance of being struck with an eieht-hundred-ton
monument would be a good deal less than it is at
present. The “ Candidate ” reduces the electoral
system of England to chaos, with speechless in-
coherence sitting on top of it, but at present the
world is too tired to be coherent. Most of the
darkness and confusion which fell upon Mr. St.
Maur in his character as the obfuscated lord was
originated by Mr. Lawrence, and the ability
manifested by that gentleman in raising Cain on
the stage showed that he was eminently
suited to adorn any Christian family. Mr.
Anson, meanwhile, played a lone hand as a
ponderous, thirsty missionary, with an unctuous
purr, who moralised and drank in an easy chair,
and though he hadn’t anything in particular to do
with the comedy he create! more riotous amuse-
mant than all the rest of the company combined.
Miss Rom r plucked the glorious herb of triumph
as the mother-in-law, and Mr. Stanmaur reflected
credit on the patience and long suffering of ihe
audience Several other ladies and genthmsn
stood round judiciously and sat down with a tact
which is beyond praise.
• ■* * *
The eky of Sydney House has
apparently been whitewashed and varnished and
a few minor improvements effected, and these
accessories, with a foreground of beautiful girls,
plain girls with money, and other humanity,
served to exhilarate Hicks’ Minstrels on their
opening night and make them feel at home. The
gentlemen whose lot has thus been brightened are
understood to be genuine African brethren from
Georgia and other foreign parts, and their
colours range from that of a defeated
Freetrade candidate to that of a chest
of drawers, but none of them even begin to
approach the awful blackness of the ordinary,
overdone, singing African. If Horace Bent will
only take a look at them he may learn to be a
more moderate darkey in future, and to look
a little le s like a hearse at the bottom of
a coal pit, and the same remark applies to the
bulk of bis brethren. Hicks’ Minstrels are w-ak
in their jokes, and their horse-play i< slow
and feeble, for the genuin son of Ham is
plaintive rather than uproarious, and it is the
painted Ham who sc earns loudest and fires off tbe
biggest conundrums.; bui their singing is excel-
lent). and they judiciously leave most of the im-
becile alleged ‘ nigg r songs ” to the white niggers
who wrote them, and then meanly fathered their
rubbish upon an unjust j-abused rac-c Bunchy
corner men wore got up to that degree of physical
darkness which has long served as a lihel on ths
coloured taxpayer, but we trust they may yet
repent and appear iu their ndural true. Will
Johnson’s melody, A Hundred Fa'homs Deep.”
supported at intervals in an undertone by Wallace
King, excit’d an enthusiasm which made
the liquors jump in the pubi c house across
the street, and Gnarles Pope’s effusion, “ There is
'Cold in the Mountains,” filled the audience with
pleasurable emotions which nearly broke some-
thing. The other descendants of song also did
their duty, which England expects every man to
do and often gets left owing to over-confidenca ; ;
and the second part of the programme went with
a joyous vim all through. A “ A ocal Organisa-
tion,” consisting of Messrs. King, Downs, Thomas,
■Speed, and Johnson, probably took the honours,
but by this time the audience were too excited
'for careful comparisons. The house was crowded,
and the only other drawbacks were an awful boy
in the third seat to the left as you enter the circle,
mlose to where you hang up your hat and don’t
find it again when you leave, who howled with
glee every 30 seconds when everybody else was
'quiet, and an elderly lady who seemed to be
somebody’s unmarried aunt, who banged her mit
itens together for two hours straight ahead and
left in an exhausted coedition after concussing
herself till the air was filled with fragments and
'dust. It is consoling to remember, however, that
Hicks’ Minstrels will endure long after this lady
is pounded into rags, and in the meantime Ered.
Hiscocks, the emperor of the show, will probably
make his pile and become a knight.
*« * *
The “ Lights o’ London,” at Her Majesty’s
{Sydney), conclude with a matinee on Eriday.
On Friday night the theatre will be closed, it
being necessary to haul out the tank to make way
for “Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” on Saturday evening.
A number of especially striking cotton-fields,
frozen rivers, dogs, and unprincipled planters
have been painted and frescoed for the occasion.
“ Monte Christo, Junior,” still travels, but it will
be replaced at an early date by “ Miss Esmeralda”
—a girl who met with some reverses several hun-
dred years ago. She was ultimately hanged, but
the devoted lover who allowed her to be strung
>up saved her goat, and the priest who looked on
and smiled at the execution fell several hundred
feet. His brother also came down heavily, and
the bones of a hunchback were found some cen-
turies later in a cellar.
#* # *
In his secluded lair at the Academy of
Music (Sydney) the shadow of the Greek Pro-
fessor steals athwart the gloom. Sundry tricks
which we first saw when we were cutting our
front teeth are nightly presented to the public
by this agile dealer in the cheap mysterious and
the low-priced awful, but they mostly turn up in
a clicked and bruised and booted and clubbed and
mauled condition, which detracts slightly from
their splendour. The one redeeming feature is
a fascinating wile which the Professor terms “La
Cocoon,” and by the aid of this he trusts to hang
on till Saturday next,
** * *
Two special dispensations of Providence
are to take place at Sydney Criterion next Satur-
day. Miss Maggie Knight, a vision of the
human soul who is always welcome—among other
things, because she is so unlike Parkes—will re-
appear, and Mr. E. W. Royce will again light his
mental lantern. The occasion of this plentiful
outpouring of talent is the production of the
“ Arabian Nights,” a London novelty by a certain
dramatic person who has just cause to recover
damages from his parents for handing down to
him the name of Grundy.
** * *
Mr. Dampier is evidently having a'pleasanb
time in Queensland. At Mackay “Romeo and
Juliet ” was produced, and when the audience
went out to have a drink in the interval between
Romeo and Juliet, a sbrauger fastened on to
Jimmy Macmahqn and tried to trade off a stuffed
alligator for service in the show. He was under
the impression that the sight of Romeo leading an
embalmed crocodile by a string would lend a
colour to the presumption that the melancholy
Dane was mad, but on the matter being referred
(Xj
Ds JlerS call
A CA3' I wof/oeS
if vvjr Cf\u Cjf/t. 1
jH A njc i f
te Dampier, that gentleman said he couldn’t work
the animal in. At Charters Towers the simp’e-
minded native pressman came cut of his haunt to
interview the stranger, and among other questions
he asked Dampier if his (Dampier’s) Hamlet was
the finest ever seen in Australia, and if Mies Lily
Dampier’s Juliet was the grandest known to his-
tory. The veteran actor fenced with these ques-
tions, which we hold to be an evidence of ill-
judged modesty. If any interviewer came to its
and asked if we were the greatest and noblest in-
dividual known to history we would at once reply
that we were.
** ♦ ♦
Miss Sylvia Grey is still disabled, one of
the small bones immediately above one of her
small feet being seriously damaged. Probably
the mashers of Sydney will never even see this
goddess, and there are tears and shrieks of woe in
consequence.
** * *
The long, cruel drought at Melbourne
Alexandra broke up with a great, big bang on
Saturday night, when 'Hiscocks and Friedman
began to reign on that hitherto dry spot. A dense
crop of humanity sprang up in every part of the
house under which the bones of many staryed-ont
managements lie mouldering, and the curtain was
finally raised upon 40 niggers gazing at a smiling
meadow of waving Gum-suckers. A metamorphosis
had been wrought—an old belief in the immuta-
bility of Alexandra gloom perished without a
struggle. The Bulletin has already touched
upon the many excellencies of the_ Hiscocks-
Friedman show, while it was a success in Sydney.
It is almost certain to be in Melbourne,
so that the present notice will conclude with a
large “ Amen.”
** * *
“Mr. Barnes of New York,” a drama
“ adapted from the world-renowned novel,” was
produced at Melbourne Rojjal on Saturday night.
The gentleman who created “ Barnes ’’gets paid
nothing for the drama, not tven the b .re com pi i-
ment of ’a mention on the programme. The stage-
adapter’s name is also withheld ffrom the public,
for the reason, perhaps, that he Jiad provided no
characters, no ideas, and no words worth speaking
of which are not stolen from the world-renowned
novel. The pleasantest and most human portions
of the story have been cut out, and those remain-
ing have been generally dragged together acress
the gaps or occasionally transposed. That
“Barnes of New York ” could be very successfully
dramatised is hardly possible, because the two
interesting characters in the book have but an in-
direct connection with its plot, and are at their
best during a railway journey, to which only a
meaningless reference can be made in the play.
Sweet Enid Anstruther has nothing to do at the
Royal. She isn’t even hugged in sight of the
audience. Mr. Barnes is a übiquitous shadow,
Gerald Anstruther (as in the novel) attracts no
sympathy to himself, and all the action revolves
round two Corsicans of either sex, who are con-
tinually swearing vengeance against the honourable
slayer of a murderous beast in the first act. Those
who have read “ Mr. Barnes” were irritated, and
those who haven’t were bewildered by Saturday’s
performance. A crowded house gave no “ call ”
after either of the four acts, and any bouquets
that were to be thrown about had to stay on hand
until next time. Signora Majeroni, as Marina
Paoli, was less effective than the Signor, as her
bloodthirsty guardian. George Darrell, although
a bit heavy, made an acceptable Mr. Barnes, and
several minor characters quite realised the
author’s conceptions. The most popular was
Miss Lilian Clitherow, who played the irrespon-
sible child, Maude Cbarteris, in a style that ex-
cused her unnecessary presence. “ Mr. Barnes
of New York ” is well-mounted, and may live for
two or three weeks on the reputation of the clever
work which gave it illegitimate birth.
♦* * *
Another Melbourne theatre, the Prin-
cess’s, was crowded on Saturday, when Efsio
Jenyns made her first local appearance in “Much
Ado About Nothing.” That fascinating young
fairy took the.usual honours with a performance
that awoke memories of Ellen Terry, ani the
company was also held up by her distant relative,
Mr. H. H. Harwood, as Dogberry. “The Magis-
trate ” continues his harassed (Career at the Bijou,
and Miss Emelie Melville and Cp. are about to
vacate the Opera House in favour of the Spanish
Students and Spanish Dancers, who will probably
hum,
** * *
Nothing particularly startling has cropped
up at the old-established variety shows in Mel-
bourne, but they get there all the same, especially
on S i turday nights. St. George’s Hall_ is still
under the benevolent sway of the Coghills,_who
carry on a short and sweet first part in ctnjuuc-
tion with George Jones, Alf. Holland, and a
crowd of distinctly pleasing girls. Then Harry
Rickards comes along with “ Mother-in-Law, ” or
‘ ‘Bric a-Brac, ”or some other tragedy in which every -
body sustains 13 different characters and endures
cruel insults at the hands of a creature who offers
no explanation whatever except that he is ’Arry.
Amateur clog-dancing for a 35-guinea silver
drinking utensil is assisting to fill the ictoda
Hall, where Frank CUrk has remained in undis-
turbed possession for 120 weeks. Saturday night
ballad-concerts at the Town Hall have just made
a beginning, and there is a growing disposi-
tion to seek other pleasures than Mr. Cowen’s
classic music when it has to be paid for. C cst
magniflque, metis ce n’cst pas le fromage.
** * *
Mr. Ralph Stuart, an Australian pianist,
has made a considerable success in London. Who
is Mr. Stuart, anyhow ?
** # *
Mr. “ Bob ” Bignell, who made an im-
mense fortune as proprietor of the notorious
Argyll Rooms, died a few weeks back. He was
70 years of aga, and had lots of time to repent
before a myriad of soiled angels came to take him
where there is no more gilded vice. No holder of
a music and dancing license ever put it to a worse
use than did the departed “ Bob/’
** * *
“ Princess Ida,” after a good run, has been
taken off the boards of Adelaide Royal, and the
lingering and humorous “ Mikado ” reigns in her
stead. This fascinating opera meets with the
same enthusiastic applause as of yore. Nellie
Stewart is again the Yum-Yum, while Alice
Barnett is as good and massive as ever in the part
of Katisha, H. Benham is the Mikado, and
Knight Aston knocks along as Pooh-Bah. T.
Grundy is the Pish-Tush, and Howard Vernon
occupies, of course, his old place as Ko-Ko.
Tommy Hudson, at Garner’s Theatre, drags
crowds in nightly, Wilson and Cameron being
the principal attraction. The Fisk Jubilee
Singers, after turning crowds away every night
from the Town Hall, steal away to Broken Hill
at an early date.
** * *
Nellie Farren and Fred Leslie expressed
a desire to see George Tank Rignold bathe in a
rubber-tub filled with discoloured liquid with the
chill off, and in accordance with this meritorious
wish to gloat over a fellow mortal whose recent
swill makes the rouge run into the corners of his
“prop” moustache, “Lights o’ London” were
lit up at an unusual hour in the afternoon
one day last week. And, talking about
Rignold and his tank, it is wonderful what
an amount of warm water bathing a man can
stand while still preserving the dimensions of a
shadow. By the way, the aquarium people are
very savage about Rignold’s show and attribute
the failure of the seals to draw popular patronage
to theatrical rivalry too obvious to specify.
*# * *
Says the Rev. Dr. Charles Strong, In Our
Good Words, the organ of the “ Australian ’
Church “ But it seems to me that we bad betti r
try to improve the theatres, rather than leave
them all to the devil,”
#
Miss Fanny Robina, a lady whose image
has a front seat in our mind, is in London, engag-
ing a burlesque company for Australia... A Yankee
joke on Herr Bulow, musician ;
*• Man wants but little Herr Bulow,
Nor wants that little long-.”
A weird curiosity has just been shipped from Vic-
toria for exhibition in America. It consists of a
perfectly bald horse, with a naked tail fashioned
like the slippery appendage which the oppressively
cheerful pig flicks in daily life. This reminds us
that Minnie Palmer says she made £30,000 during
her Australian tour. Signor Riccardi, the popular
Sydney musician, was overthrown recently by the
accursed banana-peel which has brought so many
bright young lives down on the flat of their backs
upon the pavement, and broke his leg. It is pro-
posed to hold a boomerang-throwing display at
the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, Anyone
who knows all the elaborate malignity of the
boomerang can calculate how much of the Exhibi-
tion will be left when the competition is finished.
A fine young English gentleman, all of the pre-
sent time, re rently distinguished himself by pay-
ing £lBO for a whole row of stalls, and using them
all himself. He lay down to spread himself as far
as possible, and even then he looked isolated apl
lonely in that desolation. A highly-painted spec
tae’e termed “ Mazulm ” was recently produced
at Boston (U.S.), and amoag its glories was 9,
grand march of Amazons in—ahem —tights. Qa
the Tirst night all the freshmen, et cetera,
rolled up from the college and occupied the seats,
and when the Amazons came on they rose and
unanimously unbuttoned their coats. There was
stillness for a moment. Then there was chaos. Tae
painted ladies staggered and became demoralised,
and finally took flight. And what broke them all
to shivers was the legend which each man wore
painted on his “ weskit.” “Do you ever paint ? ”
lb is reported that on one occasion, when Edwin
Booth was playing lago in an American mining
camp, the audience grew so excited at hi s vi lainy
that Vi revolvers opened fire on him simulta
neously. He escaped down a trap, but Othello,
who was behind, had the tip of his nose shot off.
Toe story is probably a compound lie S yeral
more things have been happening to Minnie
Pa’mer. Among others, it is stated the “My
Sveetheart” was “boycotted by an American
manager;” “traduced by a jealous rival;’’
“robbed by an agent;’’ “swindled by a trea-
surer ;” “ taken advantage of by a really clever
young author;” “tricked by a theatrical show-
man;” and, finally, “came nearly being shot b •
tween Dublin and Belfast.” The shooting, as it
afterwards proved, never took place, and the other
things lead us to imagine that her manager must
be a speechless ass An American critio says that
Mrs. Brown-Potter’s acting makes young
ladies blush to tbeir very waists. A
foreign paper lays itself open to damages
by stating that “ Kyrle Bellew, a one-time
Melbourne Her.VLD man, now a good-looking
star who can t ac* 1 , has been divorced from his
wife, and means to take unto his bosom a Chicago
girl named Carter as soon as the latter has disen-
cumbered herself of her present dress-buyer.”
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Tramway Handicap, run August 25th, 1888. 4000
Subscribers at 10s. each. Frst Horse, £BOO ;
Second, £250; Third, £l5O ; Starters, £250 ; Non-
starters £250 (divided amongst them), and 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. The Hawkksbury
Handicap, run September 15th 1888. 2000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First Horse, £400; Second,
£200; Third, £100; Starters, £lOO ; Non-starters,
£lOO (divided amongst them), also one of the £5O
Cash Awards of £2 each. Hawkesbury Handi-
cap, 1000 Subscribers each. The Melbourne
Cup, run November 6 th, 1888. 10,000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
Clnorore Street. Sydney, N.H W


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
MOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
ASRATIAN mONIF, 0 .
Pepper
And
Salt
Mr, James Balfour, M.L.C., rose up at a
meeting of the Victorian Alliance to remark as
follows :—“ On the Congo, in Africa, the good
effects of civilisation are being worse than neu-
tralised by the amount of evil that is done by the
introduction of rum.” Come hither, James, and
let us sing together :
The charge for admission to Melbourne
Exhibition on Tuesdays, from 10 a.m. to 6 pm,
is 2s. 6d. This arrangement would, the Commis-
sioners thought, keep the company ‘ ‘ fashionable
and select on that day.” Mrs. Grundy will oblige
with a song :
Mr. Stonehewer Cooper, journalist and
author, has been relegated to the cold security of
a dungeon for wandering around the streets of
Adelaide on a system of his own. The inevitable
officer of the law asked Cooper where he lived,
and that enthusiastic citizen replied, “In
heaven!”—
He was near it, very near it,
For Adelaide, we’ve understood,
Though not exactly quite as good,
Is near it, very near it:
Not yet a little Kingdom Come—
But near it.
Rev. Mr. Gloss delivered a lecture on
“ Australian Poets;” at Summer Hill (Sydney),
the other night. He eloquently praised the
pbetic works of Mr. (now Sir Henry) Parkes, and
assured his audience that the “ interest, lasting
power, and noble sentiments of these productions
would endure long after the other works of the
writer had died in oblivion. ” May it be that the
ro ME -TfcffyC
H\ \ 11' & KT
3Sqsecut6'r ■■
fd
iSQU
f
Q\j\ac.g- Vl '
“ENTERING POLITICAL LIFE.”
“It is not improbable Mr. Julian Salomons will enter active political life. It
is understood, as announced in the Evening News some time back, that Mr.
Salomons, if his health will permit, has been desirous of entering the Legislative
Assembly. —Sydney Foreign-trade Organ.
Why, THE BULLETIN thought that the big-Crown-brief-cormorant had “entered
political life” long ago, as above.
Rev. Gloss contemplates a trip to England, and is
preparing to carry to the Colonial Secretary’s
office that question which Sir Henry says so many
clergymen, wanting a couple of hundred out of
the public purse, ask: “Can I do anything for
the colony in England ?”
Gloss says Parkes and Sladen will be immortal.
Immortality is the curse of humans. Therefore
let them live for ever. And let them live together.
• • *
HIS WORK.
“ The Italian Observer, quoting from a
recent speech by Mr. Dailey, reproduced the
catalogue of four years’ work by Cardinal Moran,
which exhibits an expenditure of 10,717,500 lire
(£428,700). “ Tutto eio in soli 4 anni,” is the
Observer’s comment on that catalogue, and a
fenuine expression of his wonder it must have
een. —“ T. J.” in S.M. Herald.
For a place where a little refreshing re-
creation can be obtained on a hot day there are
few spots in N.S Wales to equal the Court of
Betty Sessions at Boat Harbour. Things are con-
ducted there in an airy fashion without any frills
oh them, and at intervals the reporter of the loca
paper rises to tell the Bench what an ass it is.
The other day he stood up in his box and spoke
nearly a column of large print to the presiding
magistrate, and threw the well of English unde-
filed at him generally in this fashion :
His Worship; Mr. Maokay, you mustn’t disturb the
Court.
Our Reporter ; I beg your Worship’s pardon, I’m not
disturbing the Court; I am simply drawing the witness’s
attention privately to an inaccuracy on your part before
he signs the evidence.
Mr Kingsmill : You’ve no right to disturb the Court.
Reporter : No one can sit here as I have done for the
last three days without feeling that this Court wants some
one badly to watch its proceedings. Greater incompetency
and blundering I never saw on ths part of a public
servant.
Mr. Kingsmill: Don’t disturb the Court. Be silent
here.
Reporter: You have given me the chance of opening
my mouth, and I cannot resist saying that your iroom-
petency is calculated ta bring any Court of British Justice
into contempt. You delay the business mo;-t unmerci-
fully by your slowness in writing and failure to compre-
hend the gist of the evidence given, and when written,
your notes cannot be availed of by those concerned. In
Fitzpatrick s case, for instance, the accused’s solicitor is
trusting to the North Coast Times’ report of the case to
compile his brief from, as he cannot make heads or tails
of your depositions, which are not trustworthy. . . •
The Bench appears only too anxious to jump upon me. So
long as I am in the right I will take my part anywhere,
and you yourselves gave me the opportunity of express-
ing myself upon a Government that places such incapable
men into positions in the public service for which they
are unfit. Why ! Mr. Kingsmill had not taken his seat
10 minutes in the Fitzpatrick case when, but for Inspector
Baker, he would have upset the whole case and thrown it
out of court, by stating in his depositions that the offence
happened in April, 1889—12 nrontts ahfad of the present
tiT.e, and, vihoi corre ted, y .nr common sense d d net or
could not perceive the error, which you justified, saying
“ It looks exactly like a 9 here.”
There was another column of mixed language,
and at the end of the seance the reporter was still
on top. A journalist of such a large bore and
calibre is lost on the smothered intelligence of
Boat Harbour. He should be instantly engaged
by the Sydney press to cheek the Supreme Court
and bounce the Prothonotary and Master in
Lunacy, and generally to sass officials of heavy
tonnage; and he could find a favourable opening
for his talents in sweeping up the Courts with the
Minister of Justice and with judges who
during murder-trials adjourn the Court early
one day to dine with some globe-trotting
snob or other, and the nekt day sib for, say 20
hours right off.
RUM!
Yes, it often is asserted
That the darkie, when converted,
Though to meeting flannel- shirted
He may come,
To worship his Creator
In one stocking and a gaiter,
Must for certain, soon or later,
Die of rum, die of rum —
Of the finest old Jamaica
British rum.
We have always had suspicions
Of the terrible conditions
Under which those heathen missions
Fairly hum.
P’raps the missionary teaches
’Em to sing a hymn in breeches,
But the Spirit only reaches
Them in rum (very rum)—J
And the ’verted brudder screeches
“ Gib ’em rum.”
Thus the influence surprising
Of the Word so civilising,
Sure the drink is neutralising—
Rather, some;
’Tis the lotion which effaces
All the Christian nigger races,
They die in hoots and braces,
Full of rum, full of rum—
And their bloated dying faces
Tell of rum.
Just to finish off our ditty—
We have heard it is a pity
That the heathen in the city
Den and slum
Never get a glass of liquor
From their missionary vicar ; _
They would read the Bible quicker
After rum, after rum—
A neat and natty wicker
Cask of rum.
To our Melbourne Exhibition
Many people gain admission
Who are not of good position—
Which is what you might expect;
But, thank Goodness ! there is one day
(’Twixt the Wednesday and the Monday)
Set apart for Mrs. Grundy,
When the company’s select.
Five days the place is filling
With outsiders, at a shilling,
But, of course, I wasn’t willing
With a common crowd to mix ;
My blood they would have frozen,
So the afternoon one goes on _
Is kept special for the chosen]
By a charge of two-and-six.
Then it is so fashion-able,
Such a show of silk and sable
That a decent woman’s able
In the Gallery to stroll,
Passing well-bred observations
On the weather and the stations
And those shocking complications
Between Capital and Coal.
(I was saying to dear Dinah,
We want laws to crush a miner
Like those horrid men from China,
For I’m sure they’re all alike ;
This “ Rights of Labour ” bubble
Is the cause of all the trouble—
Why, the price of coal is double]
What it was before the strike.)
But, about that Exhibition :
’Twas so good of the Commission
To give people of position
A day to call their oivn ;
I am sure it’s very pleasant,
Everything is so quiescent,
The rank and fashion present
Give the building quite a tone.
And, although some of the masses—
Men on papers, who have passes—
Mingle with the better classes,
Still they treat us with respect;
And it’s owing to their being
On the premises, and seeing,
All the journals are agreeing
That the day is so select.
SIMMONS, THE AERONAUT.
(KILLED BY A FALL FROM HIS BALLOON.)
No more shall boys cry, “ Ah-baa-loon !”
As Simmons sails around the moon,
And, standing boldly in his car,
Throws sandbags at the nearest star.
What traveller of any times
Has seen so much of distant climes ?
What creature lives beneath the sky
Whose mind has ever soared so high ?
Yet not until his day was spent
Did Simmons make his Grand Descent,
And reach the height from which, ’tis plain,
He never will come down again;
It has been said
That Parkes will shine
As statesman gay
When all are dead _
Who lend or sign
Their names to-day.
That Gloss maintains
It is in song
That he will stay,
When hands and brains
That now are strong
Are in the clay.
In either case,
We’re glad that thus
He’ll stay and scare
The coming race,
Nor follow us
With flying hair !
Tell us the marvellous work he did
In the days and nights of his Southland life !
Gloom on the brows of the weak did he bid
Disappear ? Or the passion of feud and strife,
Killing the hope of a time they say
Will combine as brothers the race s did he bring
Speech or thought to allay or stay ?
Attention ! His heralds in unison sing
His noblest feat while a worker here :
“ The worn and wan are still in the lurch,
But his Eminence brought unto Holy Church
Over a hundred thousand a year !”
Angels sitting aloft will say,
If the angels think as they used to do :
“ Better it were to be told to-day
That his Eminence went without hat or shoe
Down where the orphan’s cries are heard,
And among the men who, in lives of strife,
Strain for the sound of a guiding word
That may show the way to a nobler life !”
But through the noise of their talk they’ll hear
That whatever his Eminence left in the lurch
“ He was mindful to bring unto Holy Church
Over a huhdred thousand a year !”
PLAINT OF A LATE SUITOR.
Say, what is Australia coming to, anyway ?
At what can a man make a “rise” in thesb
days ?
Whatever he shapes for, in bold or in canny way,
Some circumstance blocks him and ruthlessly
plays
Old Harry with all his endeavours. Just look at
me !
Not once the sore burden of toil did I shirk !
I held my head up when my enemies shook at me
Such jibes as would unfit another for work !
I schooled my proud spirit to smile when they set
at me,
For Principle stood to me, and the belief
That through their base speech would a golden
voice get at me,
And measure me joy for the toil and the grief.
But somehow the toiling and grieving were all I
had!
And never a tone of the golden voice came,
And I was beginning to think that no call I had
To wear out my life in the guerdonless game,
When at last I stood up to be throttled and thrown
away,
And then I was sure that the golden voice
spoke !
But 10, the fond hope has been ruthlessly blown
away
And I am now quite at the end of my rope !
Say, what is Australia coming to, anyway ?
At what can a man make a “rise” in these
days ?
Whatever he shapes for, in bold or in canny way,
He finds in the end that the deuce a thing pays
* * *
GIMLET GODLINESS.
“ Mr. R. B. Smith said that he at once
saw the pictures, and, knowing the fastidiousness
of the people of Australia, in order to prevent any
misapprehension, he ordered them to be taken
into the storeroom ” :—
Oh, take them away, the indelicate things !
My people are bashful and blushful and mild !
And the sight of a Psyche clad only in wings,
Or a trouserless Cupid will make them go wild !
They do not like art thus in public displayed,
Lut when in a storeroom I put them aside
They 11 cany their gimlets in noiseless parade.
And interview Cupid and Psyche his bride I
t our thousand tons of coal are consumed
in Melbourne every 24 hours.
What's the difference between scented-
soap and an Arab steed ? Give it up ? One washes
the beautiful, the other scours the plain.
Up to the end of last half-year no less than
£210,000 solid money had been spent in the pro-
duction of that magnificent work, the “Pic-
turesqe Atlas of Australasia.”
Shop-lady (to female customer) : “ Stock -
* ma am ? Yes ma am, what number do you
wear? Customer (wrathfully) : “Two of
course. Do you take me for a centipede or a
music-stool?”
At the Singleton banquet, Parkes endea-
voured to conciliate the masters on the one hand
and the men on the other, in regard to the colliery
difficulty, but he proved himself a thorough
trimmer —a coal-trimmer.
Two years ago Spiers and Pond, limited,
gave £1.1,000 for the privilege of catering in the
years ago the original Spiers
commenced business in a Bourke-street
(Melbourne) cellar with half a sheep.
In a recent article in the Leisure Hour
-^ e d Spot on Jupiter, ”it is stated
that the crimson phenomenon was 29,600 miles in
length with a maximum breadth of 8,300 miles
Its area was about 200,000,000 square miles’
which is about 50 times that of Europe—that is’
about equal to the entire surface of the earth. '
Dr. Charles Hart, of New York, says that
patients suffering from chronic maladies whoss
seat is above the diaphragm are optimistic, while
those who suffer from maladies seated below it
are pessimistic. Bronchitis, phthisis, heart-disease
and asthma conduce to optimism, while liver
kidney, and general dysenterical complaints
engender pessimism.
During the last 124 years the ores smelted
in the Great Cobar (N. S. W.) Copper Mine
amounted to 195,000 tons, which produced 22,252
tons of copper, of the net value of £1,500,000. The
mine had consumed during that time 850,000 tons
of firewood, to the value of £28,000. The average
number of men employed was 400, and the wages
paid them since the mine was opened amounted
to £1,000,000.
On December 3, 1854—34 years ago—a
Ballarat digger hid his nuggetty plant and then
shouldered his musket and plunged into the tight
at the Eureka barricade. The miners were de-
feated, and the one in question was fortunate
enough in making tracks in safety. After wander-
ing. all over the world he has returned “ dead-
b m ke m d a busfcli ?& city on the site of the
old gold-field. He made a search for his plant
and struck it, and it has just panned out 31 ounces
of pure glitter.
Mr. Coleman Phillips, Dry River (N Z )
and the local scrifce are in the throes of wild
whoopmg controversy on the subject of fluke in
rabbits. Coleman wants to propagate the fluke in
the district and the mk-hurler objects, asserting
the disease is communicable to human beings who
may unwittingly eat the affected rodent OP
pledges his word that fluke won’t hurt anything
on two legs, and his antagonist rises with a shrill
yowl and challenges Phillips to eat a fluky rabbit
in his presence he (the scribe) “shouting” the
necessary fire-water to wash it down.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
{ rah Apple ISlossom at the Crown Perfumery Co ’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on this Scent.


M I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
rh excellent nervine.—Yours, Nkllik Palmbr.” Prepared
only by W. F. GAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown.
’- Obtainable from all Chemists Take no substitute.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
Sven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing,
ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENDON BROS.. 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE,
Personal Items.
Princess Beatrice threatens to abdicate
her royal rank if Henry of Battenberg is not soon
made a duke.
According to Commonweal, the Socialistic
ergan edited by William Morris, Henry George
is worth £lOO,OOO.
It may Interest visitors to Melbourne to
learn that the first Mayor of that city was Henry
Condell, a brewer.
The Crown Prince of Russia is said to be
a delicate lad of 17, who, without the aid of the
Nihilists, is not likely to outlive his father.
John Jacob Astor is by far the richest
man in America, and yet the expenses of his ac-
tual living cannot much exceed £lO,OOO a year.
The late Emperor Frederick of Germany
was born on the anniversary of the battle of
Leipsic, and he was buried on the anniversary of
Waterloo.
John Bright is reported to have become a
convert to Donnelly’s cryptogram theory. Bright
is just at that age and in that condition when
men can become converts to anything.
Of the 16 Governors who have ruled
N.S.W., nine were English, two Scotch, and five
Irish. Four out of the five Governors since Sir
William Denison’s time have been Irish.
The recently-deceased Mr. Farnell, an ex-
Premier of N.S.W., was well off, having owned
an estate between Parramatta and Ryde, a por-
tion of which was sold some time since for £50,000
Purves’ “ Journeyman Judge ” has, in
consequence of the continued illness of Mr. Jus
tice Webb (Vic.), gob another lease of office. Judge
Webb is searching for health on the Parramatta
River.
Tolstoi has published the first volume of
the correspondence of Peter the Great. There
will be ten large volumes, containing upwards of
20,000 letters, which have been gathered from
archives all over Europe.
Mr. Alexander Duthie, who died at B allarat
the other day, was one of the oldest and best-known
of Australian professional accountants. He arrived
at Hobart in 1845, and was among the first diggers
at the great Sebastopol Rush.
The Duke of Marlborough, previous to his
marriage with an American heiress, was very hard
nip, and intended starting a pig-farm near Chicago.
Fortunately for the pigs the Duke’s marriage
waved them from the connection.
David Syme, of Melbourne Age, is noted
■as a breeder of prize stock—horses and cattle. The
Argus people go in for dogs ; the finest Gordon
setters in Australia belong to Mr. Haddon, the
‘editor, and Mr. Mackinnon, the general manager.
The Captain Fitzroy who governed New
■Zealand in 1844, and whose weak head raised the
ire of Roots, the ginger-pop maker, was after-
wards an admiral, and well-known as a weather-
iprophet. He was the inventor of the Fitzroy
weather barometer.
“ German Charlie,” the Riverstone
'(N.S.W.) medicine-man, was once a shoeblack on
the streets of Sydney. He commenced his homoe-
pathic business with half-a-crown and secured
a patient now and again. He now attends to an
average of 300 patients weekly.
Mr. Fred. Humphries, Secretary of the
Victorian Employers’ Union, is well-known as a
pressman. He “ led ” the age’s parliamentary
staff, and then the Telegraph’s, and acted for a
while as London correspondent of the former
journal. Mr. Humphries’ position ,ia worth about
£lOOO a year,
Fergus Hume, author of the enormously
•and unaccountably popular “ Mystery of a Han-
som Cab,” has another story in the London press,
entitled “The Princess Midas.” The name
■sounds uncommonly like an Advertising dodge,
but if the book is really a biography, jt ought to
‘be— ahem I—exceptionally1—exceptionally interesting.
It is said that General Sir Henry Wylie
Norman, 0.8., will succeed Governor Robinson in
‘South Australia. Sir Henry is a somewhat, dis-
tinguished ex-Indian soldier, who joined the
Bengal Army in 1844, and who in 1.883 was ap-
pointed Governor of Jamaica. He is;63 years pf
• age and has been married three times.
Von Moltke and Bismarck are great eaters
*and heavy drinkers. The latter has often eaten
*ll hard-boiled eggs at a single course. Bub he
only eats one meal in the day. His breakfast is
! seldom more than a single cup of tea, without any
'solid food. Moltke says that wine is the drink
for children, champagne for men, but schnapps
f for generals.
Mr. J. F. Levien, who represents the
‘ Barwon in the Victorian Legislative Assembly,
* 'bears a striking personal resemblance to Napoleon
! the Great. It is said that when one of the hon.
’‘member’s little sons saw Mr. Dauby in “ Monte
‘ Christo,” he remarked in a voice loud enough to
*'be heard all over the circle, “Oh, there’s pappy
* on the stage !”
It is whispered that the relations between
' the editor and managing proprietor of one of the
'Melbourne daily newspapers have been a good
• deal strained of late. “ Please, sir,” said a boy,
Suiting his head into the editor’s room, the other
ay, “ Mr. -Blank wants you.” “ Tell Mr. Blank
t that he can see'me here,” was the reply, and Mr.
1 Blank had to come, boo.
i‘The Little Sisters of the Poor—a Catholic
c community at Northcote, near Melbourne—say
«■ that if Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond”) were not
a a heretic he would be almost good enough tp be a
* saint. No matter where he is, he never forgets
t these truly devoted and charitable women, who
’ make him the only return in their power hy ■ re-
" membering him in their prayers.”
l A very good second to the venerable Sir
Alfred Stephen in the race of life is Rev. W. B.
’ Boyce, the well-known temperance apostle, with
’ whose earnest letters to the daily press we are all so
f familiar. Mr. Boyce is about 8G years of age, and
■' still manages to do eight hours’ profitable study
• every day. When the late Sir George Wigram
Allen was alive Mr. Boyce filled the dual position
* of father-in-law and brother-in-law to the Glebe
* magnate.
In a lecture on physiognomy the other
T night, the lecturer, after stating that a snub-nose
' was a sign of incomplete development, and that
i most of the world’s great men had Roman or
‘ Qraeoo-Roman noses, went on to observe that Pre-
-1 mier Parkes was an exception to this rule. We
perfectly agree with the front part of this state-
ment, but we have pounded our intellect in vain
to discover how Parkes is an exception. And we
haven’t got a snub nose, either.
The death of Lord Alfred Paget is an-
nounced by cable. He was a poor, decrepid, non-
agenarian dude who prowled round the London
theatres and made small presents to ballet-girls,
of whom in his earlier years he had been the pride
and joy. He had a fat screw for being Something
or Other to the Queen, and he was a General
in the British army. Why the news of his
death should have been cabled to Australia (except
for the edification of the Gaiety Company) is a
profound mystery.
Sir Julius Vogel, says a late cablegram,
who is now in London, is engaged in completing a
novel for publication. Nearly everyone recollects
the anecdote of Sheridan’s despair at making the
fashionable world of London take favourably to
his “ School for Scandal.” His powerful “ Rivals ”
discounted his success. Vogel’s attempt to com-
pete with his own career may “ pan out ” igno-
miniously, for it is not given to everybody to
write fiction as well as to live it. Sir Julius will
have a tough job to write up to the strangeness of
his own life. “Truth is stranger than fiction.”
Regret has been expressed that a Judge
who had never been in politics had not been chosen
to preside over the case of Dibbs v Sydney
Daily" Telegraph. The only Judges, however,
on the N.S.W. Bench who were never engaged in
politics are Messrs. Deffell and Owen. The
former, by his training, would perhaps be unfitted
to sit, but the latter might, with great advantage,
have been called upon to preside. His conduct,
when at the Bar, of the common law cases of
Anderson v. the S.M. Herald and Field v. Win-
deyer, stamped him as a man of far more than
I
G
u
d
VERY PATHETIC.
“Sir Henry Parkes and the Hon. F. Abigail delivered addresses at
the Shipwreck Relief Society last evening. Mr. Abigail was especially
pathetic, and elicited repeated cheers from the audience. Foreign-
trade Organ.
average ability, and he is perhaps the ablest man
on the Supreme -Court Bench of the colony.
The Honorables Edward Flood and
Richard Hill, M.’sL.C., of N.S. Wales, were
members of the first cricket chib established in
..Sydney. , In the, first match played between the
Australians and the Military on the old Barrack-
square, ground—now Wynyard-square—the latter
Went to the wickets in black or white tall hats,
ysfliile the natives took the field either bareheaded,
or with a handkerchief tied around their classic
brows, or the popular cabbage-tree hat, and in
most cases barefooted or in their “stocking feet.”
The body of Carey, the informer, who was
shot by O’Donnell, lies in an unenclosed graveyard
qn the rise of a Hill at Port Elizabeth, South
Africa. None but coloured people and persons
who have died in gaol are laid in this burial-place.
Carrey’s grave is next to a Kaffir’s, and on a large
white, round stone at the head are badly
in lead pencil the words, “J.,Carey, the Irish in-
former.” Some Unknown person comes and
writes this inscription 1 when time or the weather
obliterates the words. Some bands of fluted iron
have also been erected to resemble a cross. _ This
is frequently removed, but is always mysteriously
replaced.
Sir Charles Dilke has written to the
Hawke’s Bav Hheald (N. Z ) denying the truth of
a paragraph which went the rounds of the I’ress
recently, stating that when Mrs. Pattison cabled
from India that she was engaged to be married to
him, the then Governor of Madras, Sir M. Grant
Duff, cabled to Sir Charles as follows : —“ Mrs.
Pattison has wired the London dailies that she is
engaged to you. Go to the offices and contradict
it at once.” Sir Charles Dilke denies having re-
ceived such a message. The H. B. Herald ex-
presses its regret, and states that the paragraph
had an American origin. America has broad
shoulders.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Who wrote the letters of Junius ? Sir
Henry Parkes.
Should the coal-strike continue., Parkes
will supply N.S.W. with gas.
The Newcastle coalminers’ strike can be
traced to the influence of Henry George.
The pay of the Victorian naval com-
mandant has been fixed at £lO2B per annum.
It is said that a large amount of English
capital is being put into Victoria at three per
cent.
Abigail generally does the N.S.W. Minis-
try’s back-block business. He is good enough for
the “ flat country.”
The next knotty point to be decided by
the Courts is whether you call a man “a liar”
when you say that his letter “bristles with peculiar
assertions.”
A person designated for a baronetcy must,
as a preliminary, forward his pedigree to the 00l-
lege of Arms. Ambitious colonials should keep
one eye on this fact when setting their caps at Im-
perialism.
.Parkes says he best knew Fletcher as a
supporter of Freetrade parties. Was this when
.Parkes was a Protectionist ?
Shearers call the last, and always the
worst, sheep in the pen “ the cobbler.” Does this
apply to the N.S.W. Ministry ?
Mr. Martin, one of the historical sons-in-
law of the late Mr. Parnell, M.P., is to contest
Redfern in the Foreign-trade interest.
While the Sydney trams are run at a loss,
the Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Company
have declared a dividend of 17 per cent.
Mr. Charles Power, of Maryborough (Q.),
once a commercial man, next a solicitor, and now
a member of Parliament, promises that he will
make law cheap.
John Woods, M.P. for Stawell, likens the
Victorian Ministry to pawnbrokers—“because
their stock-in-trade consisted almost entirely of
unredeemed pledges.”
The mills of justice grind slowly in the
outrageous Mount Rennie and Sweetman cases,
but those matters will be debated in the N.S.W.
Assembly next session.
Melbourne Exhibition is to cost the Vic-
torians a quarter of a million. The total cost will
be probably a million, whilst the indirect gain
will total many millions.
The Pall Mall says that the criminal
statistics of Germany since 1871 show a terrible
increase in all kinds of violent crime—murder,
highway robbery, theft by violence, burglary,
assaults on women and children —which, after 10
or 15 years, has only now begun to decline.
Said Abe Lincoln :—“ You can fool some
of the people all the time, and you can fool all of
the people some of the time, but you cannot fool
all the people all the time.”
Sarcastic dogs those Singleton people.
When Premier Parkes honoured them with a visit
the other day, the first place they drove him to
was the Benevolent Asylum.
Public recantation of the heresy of Im-
perial Federation has been made by that promis-
ing native politician, Mr. W. Shiels, member for
Normanby in the Victorian Legislative Assembly.
A committee of the French Chamber of
Deputies has resolved to enter into a perpetual
treaty with the U.S. for the settlement by arbi-
tration of all disputes that may arise between that
country and France.
Rev. John Auld, Moderator of the General
Assembly of N.S. Wales, declares that he does
not consider £lOOO a year too much remuneration
for a member of the Legislature. Visions of a
future Auld, M P., here arise.
A Sydney Foreign-trade organ says Mr.
Curley, the Newcastle (N.S.W.) miners’general
secretary, “ is a martyr to dyspepsia, that cruel
complaint so common to clever men.” A fine
sample this of journalistic egotism.
Anyone who reflects that the colonies have
a steady host of several hundred thousand unem-
ployed and insufficient tanks and reservoirs for
catching rain, can be fairly cornered by the ques-
tion : What is Australian statesmanship ?
The greatest trust between man and man
is the trust of giving counsel. In choice of com-
mittees for ripening business it is better to choose
indifferent persons than to make an indifferency
by putting in those that are strong on both sides.
—Bacon.
Ringnose Wise says there is really nothing
to prevent a Chinaman from becoming a barris'
ter. This is really the nastiest thing that has yet
been said about the poor Chinaman, concerning
whom all Australia has been trying to say nasty
things for two years.
An eminent naturalist reports that a
horse’s eyes magnify so greatly that they make a
man look twice his real size. This leads us to
enquire how large Parkes would look to a horse,
supposing (Parkes were as large as he thinks he is,
and the horse multiplied him by two.
Dally paper item 1 : “ It is rumored that
Mr. M'Elhone has retired from politics.” Item 2:
' x> EWARP 10s.—Losb White Cockatoo PARROT,
-*•*’' talks well. .1. M‘El hone, Rookwall-street, Potts
Point.
Talks well! By heavens, it ought to talk well.
Brisbane Courier puts its Parliamentary
reports in nonpareil type. It gives tea-fights in
larger, sermons in larger still, and editorials in the
largest. It must be remembered that Managing
Editor Buzacotb stood for Oxley at the last Parlia-
mentary elections, and was desperately beaten.
Sir James M‘Culloch is returning to Vic-
toria. Sir James was a leading merchant and
Freetrader at a time when he was Chief Secretary
of Victoria. The popular voice went for Protec-
tion, and Sir James declared that as the people
willed it he would try it, and he did, with what
result the world knows.
Speaker Young says : “ One reason for the
present depression in N.S.W. is the enormous
quantities of coal exported from Newcastle.
Vessels come from all parts laden with produce
which they are glad to get as ballast, and curry
almost freight free, taking in return a cargo of
coals. ” And the remedy ? Protection.
Premier Parkes at Singleton : “ Let the
people remember that what every true Australian
ought to advocate is the union of the Australian
people. The men who sought to divide them on
artificial grounds into conflicting classes were
public enemies of the progress of the country.”
Just so. And who, pray, is the chief sectarian
strife-monger of Australia ?
The N.S.W. Minister of Justice is said to
be engaged on a scheme of retrenchment for his
department. As a means of preventing money and
work being wasted, we recommend Mr. Clarke to
resist the re-opening of cases decided upon by any
of the courts until he is sure there is a person in
the department qualified by brains and character
to understand and give effect to evidence.
Premier Parkes yearned for a N.S.W.
Marine at last meeting of the local Shipwreck
Relief Society. But, although the Vernon was
originally intended as a training-ship for that
purpose, he altered the scheme and authorised the
youths to be apprenticed to tailors and shoe-
makers. Now that there is no work for tailors
and shoemakers his bosom expands once more for
a brave marine.
Poor Lord Knutsford, Secretary of State
for the “ Kawlinies,” has now informed the
Agents-General that he sees no reason for dis-
turbing the decision of the Sydney Conference in
reference to the Chinese Question. The Aus-
tralian Governments obviously made a huge mis-
take in referring to the Home Government at all
in the matter. Whatsoever Australia dare, Eng-
land finds herself compelled to endorse.
France and Turkey, the only European
powers particularly interested in Italy’s annexa-
tion of Massowah, are also the only European
powers that object. Italy, however, has no reason
to mind either, as Turkey dare not move with
Russia watching every little national spasm, and
France has the new combination between Russia
and Germany to remind her that Alsace and
Lorraine are not the only provinces her Teutonic
neighbour is eyeing greedily
The Victorian Ministry is beginning to show
unmistakable signs of approaching dissolution ; if
the coup de grace is not administered by an adverse
vote in Parliament, it certainly will be at the
next general election. The leading members of
the Opposition are already indulging in anticipa-
tions of early accession to office, and the rats are
fast leaving the sinking ship. When the new
Ministry comes to be formed, the following calcu-
lation will not be far out Treasurer and
Premier, Mr. Bent; Chief Secretary, Sir Bryan
O’Loghlen; Attorney-General, Mr. Shiels ;
Minister of Public Instruction, Mr. Munro;
Commissioner of Public Works and Minister of
Railways, Mr. Patterson; Minister of Agricul-
ture and Water Supply, Mr. C. Young ; Minister
of Mines, Mr. MTntyre; Minister of Justice,
Mr. Gaunson; Postmaster-General, Mr. L, L.
Smith; Commissioner of Customs, Mr. Mirams;
Minister of Defence and Representative in the
Council, Mr. Zeal.


Chinese Cheap Lah[?]r: A Clerical View.
CARDINAL MORAN (who buys Chinese made furniture) SAID AT ADELAIDE THAT “THE [?] HINESE WERE INDUSTRIOUS MEN, WHILE THE UNEMPLOYED WHITES WERE LAZY."
HIS EMINENCE (who, as per cable, is now returning to Australia with a number of clergymen): “NOW [?] HOYS, CLARE OUT, O'TVE BROUGHT WID ME SOME CHAPE CHINESE TAYTOTAL PRASTES.”


r: A Clerical View.
HINESE WERE INDUSTRIOUS MEN, WHILE THE UNEMPLOYED WHITES WERE LAZY."
HOYS, CLARE OUT, O'TVE BROUGHT WID ME SOME CHAPE CHINESE TAYTOTAL PRASTES.”
Mm-


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti-
kioal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,”
Illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, etc., who have been
cured by these Drums, and who recommend them.— Dr.
NICHOLSON. 06 William Stuhut, Melbourne.
SWEET KOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
actured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia." Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
sa. and 10a. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORB, 138 Bourke-street East,
MEMOFME.
PERFECT HEALTH 1
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hockings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LEOHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURIOH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The EsteJ*
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALING ft GO-, Ul
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.Oii
Society
The fates are taking a poetic revenge on
England’s hired assassins in the Soudan. Now
that the low-priced warriors of Britain have re-
tired down the Nile the Arabs have taken to dig-
ging up the trenches on the Soudanese battle-fields
and raking out the dead to serve as manure. Some
enterprising Greek or Egyptian merchant buys up
the remains by weight at a small sum per ton, and
ships them to England, where they are sold as
fertiliser ; and while the grand old mother land is
still maundering about the deeds of these heroes
who went forth and screamed upon the loud
Coptic blast, Hodge or Giles, who raises mangel-
wurzels on the_ 50 acres which he rents from Squire
Chump, is taking away their gallant carcases in
bags and spreading them on the ground, A dead
general is a great assistance to turnips.
Some one writing in Sydney Echo con-
siders that the “mingling of the sexes”at skating
rinks “ will not tend to strengthen their moral or
religious principles.” The same argument applies
with equal force to love-feasts, Sunday-schools,
choir-practice and ordinary attendance at church !
* • ii-
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. Justice A’Beckett
gave a very peculiar decision in a disputed will
case the other day. lam no lawyer, yet I venture
to assert that the decision in question was neither
law nor justice. The facts were as follows : A
farmer named John Craven, residing at Bacchus
Marsh, had been living with a married woman
named Ann Whittingham, who had previously
borne two sons to her husband, William Whitting-
ham. Craven devised certain lands “to my
natural children, Mary Ann and Elizabeth Whit-
tingham, and to such other children as may be
living at my decease of the said Ann Whitting-
ham. When the youngest child shall have at-
tained the age of if, the property is to be sold and
the money realised to be equally divided among
the children, share and share alike, whether hoys
or girls.” Special bequests are left in a codicil to
William Whittingham’s children, and it was con-
tended that the testator intended to provide for
future-born illegitimate children, of whom there
were two born after the will was made. The
judge decided that Ann Whittingham’s two
legitimate sons and the two specified by name
should have the property, excluding the others
altogether. I consider that the last four words I
have quoted, and which I have italicised—
“ whether boys or girls” —has a distinct reference
to children yet unborn, as the testator cannot
specify the sex or the names of the children, and,
besides, if he had intended the two sons to benefit
by the will, he would not be likely to leave them
specific bequests in a codicil. Trusting that you
will publish this letter in the interests of justice,
I am, sir, yours truly, Trotter Bkthune,
Moonee Ponds, Vie., Aug. 19, 1888.
* m •
The most fetching pair of pictures at Mel-
bourne Exhibition are to be found (as might be
expected) in the French Gallery, The first pic-
ture represents two demi-mondaines fighting a
duel with swords in a lovely woodland. They
are stripped to the waist, and thrust with a deter-
mination which half frightens the three or four
fashionably-dressed “tarts’’who are assisting at
the little “affaire.” The second picture shows
one of the girls to be wounded. Her late adver-
sary is kissing her with hysterical affection, and
the attendant spinsters are signalling to the
driver of a carriage just appearing in the distance.
These works are deliciously French.
* w •
At the present moment there are 600
young Victorians applying for a possible 100
billets in the police-force of the colony. Noble
Six Hundred ! Just bursting into vigorous man-
hood, they have no higher ambition than to loaf
around in uniform and order little boys to move
on out of that. Policemen are necessary evils in
a civilised community, but it makes us shudder to
think about the 500 unsuccessful candidates who
have started life with a determination not to do
any work. We suppose they will ultimately be
arrested by the 100 lucky enough to get sworn-in.
Bishop Barry, who, it is now plain, con-
templates turning his back on Australia, seems to
be, like his father, Sir Charles, the architect, a bit
of a designer. Canon Rowsell, one of the favoured
chaplains, knows something about the Chester
bishopric of which “dear Bishop Barry “ is in
quest. He has doubtless earwigged her Majesty,
and managed the affair very nicely for his dear
nephew.
Roberts, the twice-escaped N.Z. prisoner,
is supposed to have got away by sailing vessel to
South America. During the recent search for
him a policeman stationed near Oamaru received
information which led him to believe that Roberts
would cross a certain bridge late at night. Along
with a brother officer the policeman watched the
bridge in the rain and darkness for several hours
until their teeth chattered like stone-breakers. To
make sure of catching him they stretched a rope
across the bridge to trip him up. About midnight
they heard hurrying footsteps, and then saw a
dark figure rush along and fall with a groan over
the rope. The victim was immediately seized,
handcuffed, and dragged to the station, when he
was recognised as a well-known citizen with a
healthy brogue and a bad temper. He now seeks
redress for illegal arrest in the local court.
* * *
The Duke of Westminster, after much
pressing from Governor Loch, offered to sell one
of his Turner pictures (now at the Exhibition) to
the trustees of Melbourne Art Gallery. The dear
duke graciously consented to sacrifice his gloomy
“gem” for £2OOO, but the offer was declined;
from which we gather that Westminster knows
more than you might think, and the trustees are
a lot smarter than they look. It is not at all sus-
pected that the Governor’s kind offices were of an
interested character. He has been educated to
believe that any darned picture painted by a
representative British artist, and exhibited by a
representative British peer, is mixed Up with
representative Government and ought to be
cherished wherever the British language is spoken,
hah ! God save the Queen.
* » •
A lawyer remarked in the Sydney Divorce
Court, the other day, that he attached much
importance to the manner in which the lady
respondent, whilst talking of the co-respondent,
always used the word “we.” “We went here,”
“ice returned,” and so on, “just as if they had
Cea*a e
Ve
c^(,
O^T
To
-t^e
Trie
j\‘ft
f
d
The Prince of Wales is seriously alarmed about his corpulency. He fears lest,
like his distinguished predecessor, George TV, he may become so unwieldy as to be
unable to walk. ” —English Society Paper.
been husband and wife.” Not so conclusive, after
all. We once knew a wife who always referred to
herself and husband as “I.” The husband, on
the contrary, always said “we.” She stood sft.
lOin. and he was only 4ft. Sin. in his thickest
boots. She lived in Victoria. She had three
daughters, who all married and all got divorced.
* * *
Melbourne Punch ia our authority for
asserting that there never has been any “ recent
great scandal ” in Sydney.
Y es, the melancholy fact must be recorded
that Mr. Cowen’s classical concerts at Melbourne
Exhibition are proving a dark and dismal failure.
One night recently when the news was conveyed
to the audience that Mr. George Coppin’s “Gor-
don ” Cadet Band was playing in another part of
the building, the concert-hall was emptied almost
as quickly as if an alarm of fire had been raised.
The Executive Commissioners are beginning to
realise that sonatas and fugues and choral sym-
phonies fail to go down with the Victorian public,
and they are now in treaty with Consul-General
George Oakley to secure the royal band of H.M.
the King of Hawaii,
* * •
Please don’t be too rough on the poor
Governor and his wife :
Since Mrs. Cleveland became the President’s wife she
has to wear gloves two sizes larger than she wore before
she was married. Her left hand is very little if any
larger, but the right hand, which has done so much shak-
ing in its official capacity, is noticeably larger than the
other, and she recently told a friend that it was impossible
for her to wear her old number in gloves. The same is
probably true of the President, but as men wear their
gloves so much looser than women, he might not know it
by that means, but if he compares his two hands he will
see the difference.
By the way, this paragraph affects many besides
the Governors. How many Australian politicians
do no “shaking” in “ their official capacity ”?
• • »
The Melbourne Herald refers to Sir
Henry Loch as “the most genial of hosts.” His
Excellency may be all that, but he has the repu-
tation among the Government House servants of
being the most stingy of masters. Economy must
be practised somewhere, and Sir Henry takes
care that there is no criminal extravagance in
the servant’s hall.
® * •
Jubilee is on tap at last. The latest
triumph of civilisation is a Yankee beer-pipe-line,
by which tipple is laid on to private houses like
gas. The pipes run through the streets direct
from the brewery, parallelling the gas and water-
mains. Each little dwelling is furnished with a
meter and the beerman goes round daily to collect
the payment, as it isn’t considered safe to give
longer credit. What do you think of that,
Gonsalvo Kavanagh ! Of course some captious
caviller will object that this is an American
stretcher and that the beer would stale in the
pipes. Not much, captious caviller. More likely
that the brewery would run dry and the vats col-
lapse from drought,
• • •
The proportion of births to every 1000 of
the population of Sydney and suburbs during the
month of July last was 3.42, and of deaths 1.30,
The births numbered 1227 and the deaths 464,
being respectively 42 and 119 more than the num-
bers registered in July of 1887.
» * »
Vice-regal patronage is becoming a com*
plete farce, and is accorded without either thought
or principle. As it has lately been extended to a
man whose name and blackmail are convertible
terms, it is hardly likely that anybody will trouble
about it very much in future.
* * *
The eye of the N.S.W. policeman will
soon be swollen up like that of the Social Purity
apostle. In a Sydney police court, the other day,
an energetic “cop” testified that he had stood with
his eye glued to a publican’s key-hole for three
and a-half hours at a stretch.
* * *
The manner in which the Melbourne
University became possessed of “ the Wilson
Hotel ”is not generally known. Dining with a
brother wool-king at the Port Phillip Club Hotel,
Melbourne, one day, the conversation turned upon
the then clip and the price it was likely to fetch in
the English market. After various figures had
been debated, Sir Salmon said that if his clip
realised anything more than a price named he
would give the surplus to the Melbourne Univer*
sity. When the returns came to hand the Wilson
clip was found, owing to the competition of
foreign buyers, to have totalled the enormous sum
of £86,000 in excess of its owner’s estimate, and
with this amount was built the “ Wilson ” Hotel.
* * #
The Sydney Christian World says the
success of the London Burlesque Company is
due to a “ mania for tights.” The editor ought to
know.
* e •
Pope’s society parson, who “ never men-
tioned hell to ears polite,” has a living represents-
tive to-day in a certain suburban cleric, wbo is
credited with haying remarked, “Brethren, you
must repent, as it were, and be converted, in a
measure, or you will be lost, to some extent.”
• * *
“ You are my Idol,” she murmured. And
idle he was. He never did a blessed day’s work
in his life.
* * *
It is quite a common thing for Fijian
chiefs to rob their wives of their locks and place
them on their own heads. This accounts for the
number of bald-headed women in Fiji.
* . *
Tasmanians can rise when they put them-
selves to it, A week ago “ God Save the Queen ”
was played when a certain local official entered a
certain entertainment. Twenty years ago he
might have been heard whistling “Bonnie Dun-
dee ” in any Hobart street with a vegetable-basket
on his arm.
• • »
Sir Robert Hamilton has returned to Tas-
mania. He spent at least £l5 in Melbourne.
* * •
Sir Alfred Stephen recently charged men
moving in the highest Sydney society with wink]
ing at and tolerating, if not actually patronising'
drunkenness in high places.
* • *
A .Jewess, to whom money has been be-
queathed on condition tkat she does not marry a
Gentile, does not forfeit the bequest by breaking
the condition. A case of this kind was tried
lately in England, and Mr. Justice Chitty ruled
as above.
* * *
That idol of the pantry-maid, the writer
of “ Social_ Gossip from Home ” for the Argus,
states that in consequence of the London season’s
being so dull “ the ennui of the women is fright-
ful to behold.” Are there no holes in their dear
lords’ socks to darn ?
* •
According to the caustic Jehu Junior of
Vanity Faib, Floquet was called to the French
Bar at the early age of three. Says that worthy ;
“ Bom 60 years ago, Floquet was called to the
Bar in 1831.” Previous to penning such a blunder
Jehu Junior must have been at the bar for some
considerable time.
* * *
A Christchurch (N.Z.) man has invented
and patented an attachment to roller skates which
renders it impossible for the skater to fall over
backwards. Now the bustle may go.
* t * #
A pretty tall wedding took place lately in
St. Patrick’s, Wellington (N.Z.), when Michael
M'Keefrey, who is Oft. Sin. in his socks, was
joined in the holy bonds to Miss Mary M'Elery,
who is sft. llin. The bridegroom is a number of
the foorce, av coorse.
» * •
St. David’s Cathedral (Hobart) authorities
have instituted “ special Sunday afternoon band-
concerts,” and have thereby much disgusted many
good people. One old lady, after a performance,
said she thought the piano out of place in church.
It reminded one of the theatre, the only thing
missing being “ Patsey and the oranges. ” This is
what Sunday is coming to in sleepy old Tasmania.
* • *
Here is what the law of Moses says as to
marriage with a wife’s sister in the 18th chapter
of the Book of Leviticus (18th verse): —
“ Neither shalt thou take a wife to her sister to vex her
beside the other inker lifetime."
The revised version says :
_ “And thou shalt not take a woman to her sister to be a
rival to her . . . beside the other in her lifetime,”
From these sentences is extracted a prohibition
against marriage with a deceased wife’s sister 1
- * ,
British publishers complain that Justin
M‘Carthy’s “ History of Our Own Time,” sold in
her Majesty’s dominions for 40s. can be purchasedin
America for 25 cents. If such alarming reduc-
tions are general, doubtless carmen are highly
paid to cart away Sladen’s last epic poem from
the Boston book-stores to the nearest rubbish-
heap.
* « *
A “Noxious Insect Bill” is before the
Victorian Parliament. The promoters hope to
bring it into force in time to render residence in
Melbourne hotels supportable to Exhibition
visitors.
THE DEADBEATS.
In front of the G. P, 0.,
That edifice great and grand,
All of a solemn, desolate row,
The Johnny-come-lately’s stand ;
They know that the English mail has come,
And they wait the stroke of ten,
They wait the letters with money from home—
Those seedy remittance-men.
Faces with passion rife,
Faces with hope long past.
The waifs and strays of the sea of life,
On this far-away country cast.
Never a single cent they earn—
They are far too grand to try,
And Lord ! how they hate the whole concern
And the people that hurry by !
“ Oh, for a friendly face
In this beastly, wretched town ;
A gentleman here is out of place,
He might j ust as well be a clown ;
Rank and breeding is nothing, begad,
And a man who with swells can move
Might just as well be a beastly cad
As a baronet’s son, by Jove.”
They stare with haughty pride
At the hurrying, busy men;
But now the windows open wide
At the magic stroke of ten :
‘ What! not one single letter here
For Montmorency Brown,
And I haven’t the price of a long, long beer.
Can you lend us a half-a-crown ?”
TO DR. SCOT-SKIRVING.
So, Doctor, the ladies who listened to you
On the evils tight lacing has brought to the
fore,
As soon as they left you the dreadful things drew
Still tighter around, and forget all your lore.
And thus when the Temperance preacher drives
home
To men who get “tight” that they’re taking
their lives,
They admit ’tis well-said, but they “ tighter ”
become,
For in “ tightness,” accompanied by whalebone
or rum,
There is something that, kill though it may, still
revives.


Everybody Bays— and wnat everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits Patknt Rollvb Flour 10 the
b6lt in the market
When next yon bake try PemelV
Rot.t.rr Fi,ot'R, and your bread will
s Snow-whot Patbni
be as white as enow.
Everybody should use Pemell’a latest, best Snow-whit*
Patent Kolt.eb Fwroa, It is the greatest success of the
age.
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whiii
Patrnt Roller Flour. It is mad.- in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the new- oatented machinery
The quality is exceptionally % cd, j...d the price very low^
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Sept. B, 1 888 -
Mr Dear MoorabiKda, —
I hear that [when the hour arrived for dividing the
money raised for the French Comedy Company by the
recent benefit performance, one of the leading mein era
claimed that, as he drew a larger salary than most of the
other performers (when there was any salary to draw), he
was justly entitled to receive a larger share of thebeneht
receipts than certain others of his confreres. W en ie
interpreter explained this to the gentleman who held the
money, however, the latter, with a wisdom worthy of
Solomon in his best days—which 1 take it were the days
before he got so much married—replied that, as the star
had drawn the greater part of the salaries he should
have less necessity for relief than the others ; a decision
which sent Moosoo Graball away in high dudgeon. We
are all equal when we need relief.
The matinee at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on 28th ult.,
held to enable the beauteous Gaiety crowd to see how
thoroughly the beautiful Mr. Ilignold could stage the
legitimate in the kawlinies, resulted in an overflowing
house. The d.o. was one mass of the “profession.” In
the crimson silk fauteuils d’honneur in the centre of the
horse-shoe, the burlesqueis were placed. There were
Nellie Farren, attired in gobelin-grey cashmere trimmed
with white silk and steel beading, black net hat with a
back trimming of pearl-grey r tibboo, white kid gloves and
white fall; Letty Lind, who sported a deliciously airy
trifle of a bonnet composed of two shades of green ribbon
and a scrap of tulle ; Marion Hood, whose loose golden
hair wasn't set off by a small mistic-hued hat shaped like
a periwinkle ; Fred Leslie, who wore a big buttonhole
and sucked the knob of his stick moat of the time ; and
Raynham, to represent what Sydney gamins call the
“Monte Criato push,” but there were also in the sacred
enclosure our old friend Miss Annie Taylor, “Struck
Oil ” Williamson, Cathcart, and another Thespian whose
name escapes me, all basking in the glorified atmosphere.
About and beyond sat pro. after pro.—the majority of the
feminine gender and mostly of the “supe” persuasion,
but all of whom to a woman carried “husband-beater”
umbrellas. In the vice-regal box sat Mies Maggie Moore
attired in dark brown cloth pinked out over lighter brown.
At the conclusion of the third act of that long-drawn-out
moan of poverty, misery, and chokee, “ Lights o’ London ”
which constituted, of course, the matinee menu), Nellie
Farren went behind to congratulate Handsome George on
his all-round success in regard to this apotheosis cf
Woe, satirically advertised as an “Amusement!”
Apropos of the Burlesquers, I hear that one of the angels
of the Gaiety Co. receives daily from an eye-glassed Ob-
ject colossal baskets of high-priced vegetables, which,
though from the first she positively declined taking de-
livery of, still arrive with the regularity of clock-work.
These she always “flips into the dust-bin,” and the
situation now resolves itself into an amorous youth with
large feet spending twelve pounds a week on a dirt-box !
After all, though, the affair has its compensations, for
If she won’t have your pretty flowers, and throw them
from her must,
It’s just as well (it seems to me) to dump them mongst
the dust, , , , .
For it’s on record that she's d ust (thus funeral parsons sigh),
So your bouquets are mingling with what she'll be by-
and-by.
Happy flowers ! If he's the usual style of “ mash ” there
will be mountains of consolation in a precious thought
like that!
Two balls will shortly eventuate at Government House
Sydney. The first whirl of bliss is to happen on the 26th
instant, and the second cycle of rapture on the 10th of
October, which will bring to a welcome conclusion the stalest
season ever experienced in Sydney, and that, as Potts
Point knows, is saying a great deal. I trust the ball won’t
be correspondingly dull and dreamy, but I mourn as one
without hope. Candidly, the young men and maidens
whom one meets at Government House are not the kind
of people to cause you to go out under the silent stars and
congratulate Bung on the sparkling success of humanity _
Brian Harley is playing lead with the Bland Holt com-
pany at Brisbane. The opening of Parliament there
the other week was, I hear, made the occasion
for a great display of purple and fine linen. Lady Mus-
grave wore pale French-grey silk, with Parisian bonnet
en suite, but my correspondent informs me that Lady
“Tam” M‘ll wraith distanced all competitors in a well-cut
gown of lichen-green cloth, with panel of velvet, and a
“ love of a bonnet ” in pale lichen-green velvet, with bows
of moire ribbon and knots of tulle en suite.
It is related of a well-known Sydney man who was
always quarrelling with his particularly ugly spouse about
patrolling the Block that he recently made a great noise
concerning the offence named and sternly told his unat-
tractive lady that she must do it nevermore again. His
wife objected strongly to this command, and quoted the
case of Mrs B , whom she had seen that very morning
“ doing the Block” with foqr gentlemen ! “ Oh, when
you can get four men at a time to do the Block with
you I’ll not say a word about it ” was the sweet response.
Here is the prize English society riddle : If 30 is freezing
point, what is squeezing point ? Answer : Two in the
shade.
“ Such a grand little sermon as we had on the immo-
rality cf the soul," said Mis. Potts Point, the other day,
“ and it was all distempery, too, every word cf it, I'm
told.”
The emotionless Australian “Uppah Ten ” who sit out
meritorious performances with a frozen-fish expression
and hands languidly clasped in their ample laps, should
take a h ; nt on this subject from Lady Carington. When
anyone on the stage does or says or sings anything plea-
santly her ladyship always gently claps her hands in
moderate applause, and the effect is'encouraging to the
performers. If our set-visaged aristocracy—who only
assume a rigidity they are at heart far from feeling, in
order to be “ English’’—only knew how actors dread
facing an unsympathetic house they might perhaps follow
“ Her Excellency’s ” example and bang their No. 7 palms
together when things are going well.
I In a certain Australian city, people are button-holing
each other to enquire if vice-regal means regal-vice.
Encore Bridget! A Sydney housewife went into the
kettle-and pot department the other morning and dis-
covered the fair lineal descendant of King O’Toole who
condescends to eat and sleep on the premises for a con-
sideration, engaged in laboriously “ olaning the masther’s
boots ” with the clothes-brush.
Apropos of servant-girls one of these wore her
master’s slippers the other day. Observing this her mis.
tress said to her : “ Sarah, if you were not so very ambi-
tious and hadn’t such large feet, you would content
I ourself with stepping' into my shoes instead of into your
raster’s. ’’ Now, as things are at present, I consider that
be assumption by Bridget of her employer’s number nines
ras altogether superfluous—unless she wished to adopt
ome visible insignia, for at a time when eighteen shillings
, week and seven nights out are the rule, there should
>e little difficulty in playing the real— not nominal—
naster of the establishment.
Now that the summer is approaching and the tap of
he tennis-racket will soon be heard in the land, it may
rot be amiss to describe the latest lawn-tennis costume,
which comes rather under the heading of a startling
novelty. The flannel is of a delicate hue, and is made
into a kilted skirt with a short hip drapery in front, and a
fluffy butterfly arrangement at the back, and a bodice jus t
as near an exact copy of her brother's shirt as the wearer
or her dressmaker can devise. Some girls, indeed, invest
in a man's shirt, tie, and tennis-hat —then they buy a kilted
skirt and a sash with tasselled ends. They fasten the
skirt bslt over the shirt, tie the sash over the band, and—
there you are ! The result is said to be both "startling
and stunning.’’
By the way, is the woman who wears a black f rock and
yellow boots to be called a “ black and tan ” ?
A “ whistling lady ’’ has arrived at Melbourne. As she is
both young and pretty, and the pucker for whistling is
irresistibly like the pucker for something far more senti-
NIBBLE AND QUIBBLE.
FIRS T PARTY: "THAT THERE ISN’T A SCHNAPPER, IS IT?”
SECOND DITTO: “NO. ONLY A WHIPPER-SCHNAPPERR."
mental, things are about to'become very tantalizing for
the young men over the way, don’t you think I
Lord Carington expects to return to Sydney on or a
the 14th of September. His Excellency was banqueted at
Bourke, where the mid-day temperature is now said to be
almost equal to that of Sydney summer. By-the-by, a
Sydney evening paper seriously and officially stated that
the Baron received a “warm reception at Bourke ..
They might have chosen another adjective.
“ Disgusted ” wrote to a Sydney journal the other day
complaining that he posted a pair of gloves (perhaps No.
sevens, and probably to his lady love) at a suburbs,
post office in June, but that "up to the present the
parcel has not arrived.” But isn’t it the most natural
thing in the world that those gloves were not delivered
considering that the poor postman is pocketless and must
have something to put his hands in .
One of the wealthiest of Sydney merchants, who
recently celebrated his golden-wedding, is fond of
telling his employes that on the day he married the gir
he loved he began work in a store at 6 o clock in the
morning and did not leave off till late in the evening and
went without his lunch that the ceremony might be per-
formed. He has educated a large family ; his sons oc-
cupy honourable positions in the world, and his daughters
were considered the prettiest girls of their time
I hear that in Melbourne recently a talented English
musician and wielder of many batons got into a most
violent passion, because at the hash-house where he puts
up they served wild duck without lemon 1 How cruel of
them! ... „
Which reminds me that people speak of putting up
at boarding-houses because they always have such a lot
to put up with.
Two advts. discovered nestling side by side in the
r WILL not be responsible for any Debts my Wife
* contracts after this date. Arthur ~ -
Gentleman would like to make the acquam-
l° L ta N nce of agreeable Young good-looking
and respectably connected. W.K , Hbrald Branon
Office, 136, King-st. . . fWfW
There !' And I will wager my new Spring hat that that
“young gentleman” will refuse to keep all agreeable
young ladies at a respectful distance, and take warning
(as he ought) by the hollow eight,eenpenny wail of a
gone-through Benedict. A youth in “young gentle-
man’s ” frame of mind wouldn’t be warned even if the
heavens opened and revealed a panorama of the future,
with his pansy-blossom in curl-papers and odd slippers
turning his coat-pockets inside-out in the cold, soft dawn.
The initial performance of the Southern Amateu
Theatrical Society will take place this month, and will con-
sist of a double bill—“ Boots at the Swan,”comedietta, and
“ The Crimson Scarf,” operetta. By the way, this society
is under the distinguished presidentship of Hon. R. H
D. White, M.L.C., and the committee desire me to state
that those who wish to become subscribers should sub-
mit their names and addresses to the committee. The
office is 129 Elizabeth-street.
People say that the difference between “ window ’ and
widow ” is that you can see through the one but not
through the other.
A recent “ arrival ” advertisement in the S.M.
Herald ran :—“ Blank. —August 17, at his residence,
t the wife of G. L. Blank, of a son.” I thought nobody
but a Welshmen called his wife “ he.” Didn't you ?
I hear that Sylvia Grey (of the London Gaiety Company)
has broken a small bone in her ankle, and the medical
men in attendance say that she will never dance again, but I
sincerely hope their verdict is a false one.
Overheard on the railway. First Voice: “So they
found employment—the one nursing and the other on the
stage.” Second Voice: “ Ah, I see—one went in for
hearsing and the other for re-hearsing.”
A waltz entitled the “Essie” and dedicated to Miss
Jenyns whose picture is on the cover, is now to be found
on top of every well-regulated piano which jangles on the
shores of the Beautiful Harbour. Apropos of music, have
you heard the “ Australian Marseillaise,” composed by
Fowler, written by Meston, and published by H. T.
Pollard and Co , of Brisbane V It is a song every true
Australian should hum, sing, or whistle, and one forgives
two or three faults in its composition because of its pure,
unreasoning patriotism. I do not think, though, that it
is destined to be the song of Liberty for the coming
Republic.
A friend writes to me from Central Queensland, where
he was staying with an old chum who has a station in
those distant parts. The squatter and my friend were
sitting beneath the verandah talking about the stock-tax
and sipping “ bananalanders,” when the old housekeeper
rushed up in a state of breathless exhaustion. “ Blaze,
sur, thim fowls won’t go inter the oven.” “ Oh,” said the
squatter, “ that be hanged for a yarn 1 Do you mean to
say the oven won’t hold three fowls?” “No, sir, the
skivers won’t let ’em go in at all.” Woolpack went round
to the kitchen to investigate the matter, and found that
the old housekeeper had trussed the poultry with sur-
veyor’s arrows, fifteen inches long and surmounted with
red bunting. The cook had taken them for a new variety
of skewers, and concluded that the red flags were an in-
vention by which the darts could be pulled out when hot.
A very enjoyable impromptu dance was given by Mrs-
Vickers-Jaoob, of Thornleigh, Woollahra, on the 29th
ult. on the occasion of her brother’s departure for another
shore. Amongst the dresses was a very taking one of
white silk draped over a skirt of black velvet and white
silk stripe, and another of white with coloured roses. The
guests necessarily included the übiquitous naval officer
from the Orlando and the Calliope.
The second and annual ball in aid of the Woman’s
Refuge at Tempe, Sydney, culminated in gilded radiance
last week, and was smiled upon by all the ton Sydney
has to spare in the direction of charity of a more or less
fashionable character.
Mrs. W. Laidley, of “ Willside,” Edgeoliffe-road, gave,
on the 30th ult., a large dance at Nithsdale Rooms, and
amongst the rank and fashion gathered together on the
occasion were many uniforms from all the warships in the
harbour.
Mrs. Tarrant, of Macquarie-street, gave an enjoyable
dance to a party of juveniles on Friday, 31st ult., which
was hugely appreciated by the rising generation.
Amongst the guests at the farewell dance given by
Captain Hammill and the officers of the Nelson on the
28th ult. were H.E. and Lady Carington, Admiral and
Mrs. Fairfax, Miss Dundas, Miss Hamilton, Miss Waleron,
the Hon. Rupert, Miss Jervois, Lady Darley, Captain
Clayton, of the Diamond, Captain Mann, of the Rapid,
and the officers attached to these outward and visible
signs of Imperial Federation, Captain La Guere and the
officers of the French warship, Deorbs, and all the—by
special courtesy— rank, fashion, and beauty of Sydney
“ eassiety.”
I hear that in America the managers of some of the
theatres now refuse to allow flowers to he passed over the
footlights to performers, and insist that all floral gifts
shall be sent round to the stage-door. Apropos of
bouquets—a collection of extremely high-priced vege-
ables was levelled at the head of a pretty actress at a
Sydney theatre a little while ago, and when she bent to
closely inhale the perfume of a lovely souvenir rose a
concealed pin penetrated her nostril. Quite an accident,
of course ? But what a cat the woman must have been
who threw it.
Miss Nellie Barren and the burlesque artistes of] the
London Gaiety troupe were doubtless much— oh so much
—gratified at the recent display of kindness and courtesy,
not to say good breeding, witli which they were favoured
by some of the lady-officers at the Paddington Brrracks.
“In Memoriam 1 ’ advertisements stem generally rather
foolish, even when inserted about people’s grandmothers
or fifth aunts, but when an individual rises to insert the
following in the S.M.H. it is time the thing became a
punishable offence :
TJUNYAN, JOHN.—In remembrance of John Bun-
yan, author of the “ Pilgrim’s Progress,” &c.,
who was incarcerated in Bedford Gaol 12 years for the
truth’s sake, and died August 31, 1688, aged 00 years.
His remains were interred in Bunhillflelds Cemetery,
London.
The individual who paid 2s. Odrfor that might have got
something a little more astonishing for his money. How
would this lodk for a startler : “In fond remembrance of
Elijah, who went up in a chariot of fire, B.C. 2.” Or
else: “In loving memory of Lot’s wife turned to salt.
Not lost, but gone before.” Also, won't some kind person
write or publish a metrical “ In Memoriam ” on Adam ?
The departure of a warship from the Australian station
brings up the officers and the girls with “ a round turn.”
H.M.S. Nelson is departing and two naval engagements
are immediately announced—one between Lieutenant
Bayly and the daughter of the Sunbury baronet, Sir W.
J. Clarke, and another between Mr. Field and Miss
Westgarth.
Sydney Union Club ball is fixed for the 14th inst.
The Felix Assembly worship Terpsichore to-mornw
night (7th) at Nithsdale’s rooms.
Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Russell, of Sydney, gave an enjoy-
able and well-attended garden-party on the 29th ult.
The “ Woollahra Private Assembly ” gave their fourth
dance of this season on 31st ult. The affair was a brilliant
one, and the attendance, which included some of the
Orlando officers, very “ select.”
Judging from the little “convict” incident related in
another column last week, the present occupants of Go-
vernment House, Hobart, still seem unable to realise that
“ colonials ” are not all ignorant of the manners and cus-
toms of refined society. But their Excellencies are cer-
tainly improving, as, after a musical entertainment at
Government House (Tas.) a little while ago, the musicians
found, to their surprise, a hot supper prepared for them.
At previous gubernatorial festivities the cornet-man pro-
vided the sandwiches while the violinist or pianist
supplied the liquor, otherwise they went hungry.
At a certain church in Hobart, where voluntary contii-
butions are received by the pastor as his salary, the col-
lections lately have only amounted to the paltry sum of
£4 weekly—mere starvation pittance—so a circular has
been handed round, conveying the request that the con-
gregation would, by giving more liberally, increase the
amount to £O. Whether this desideratum has been at-
tained is as yet unknown, but not far away there exists,
according to my correspondent, a curate, who, though he
preaches three sermons every Sunday and works like a
navvy the rest of the week, draws only sixty pounds per
annum.
A lady visitor to Melbourne Exhibition says that the
great colonial thirst is strongly exemplifhd in the thou-
sands of casks and bottles exhibited. Liquor-trophies
meet the eye everywhere, even the sober little island con-
tributing its quota.
It is a golden rule never to address an unknown lady in
a ’bus unless you are morally certain her husband isn’t
riding on the box-seat.
Miss Emma Wangenheim holds a “ pupils’ first concert
at West’s rooms on the 24th inst.
Canterbury Park races, which were run off on the Ist
instant, had but a sparse attendance of the fair sex,
owing to the unpromising drizzle that prevailed all day,
for women are like cats in their innate terror of getting
wet. On the Bth inst. the Rosehill Spring meeting is to
take place, when I hope a large contingent of pretty gowns
will grace the lawn and excite the envy of
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
lor this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
The Northern Age “ is informed on the
best authority that gold is now being turned out
of Mount Morgan (Q.) mine at the rate of
£2,080,000 a year.
Dear Bulletin, —I and a mate in want of
money borrow £3O on some machinery. I receive
£26 4s. cash, and give a three months’ promis-
sory note for £32 10s. A week or two before the
time expires I go to the letider and say : “ Realise
on my plant : I cannot meet the bill. ” By the
sale of other effects I pay £8 of the £32 10s.,
which, added to £1 he demanded when I signed
the note, makes £9 deducted from £32 10s., and
leaves £23 10s. nett. In giving the things over I
said, “ Sell them by public auction.” The sale
was advertised twice. Just before the sale usurer
sought to sell a part of the plant to a private
buyer. I objected on the ground that it would
spoil my plant as a complete thing and depreciate
its value. He persisting, I went to the auc-
tioneer, told him who I was, and gave him a few
particulars. The private buyer came to the auc-
tioneer with an order from the usurer. Auctioneer
refuses to deliver, loan office-manager comes,
auctioneer still refuses. Usurer offers to alleged
purchaser back his cheque ; alleged purchaser de-
clines to take it, threatens an action against usurer.
Auction came off, plant realised £52105. Account
sales passed to usurer, who declined to hand me
balance, saying I would have to compromise
with the “ private purchaser,” who had to
pay £5 more for the machine at the auction
sale. I went to lawyer, who wrote to usurer
Usurer replied, acknowledging my claim of £29,
less auction commission, and saying that the balance
due to me after deducting his own £23 10s. and pro
raising that if I called he would give it me. I called.
He put me off time after time. I walked about
the streets, hungry and footsore. Lawyer would
not move without money. Usurer at last refused
to pay me my lawful balance on the plea that by
my interference he was threatened with a sum-
mons. Could have shot the wretch, who to this
day, now eight months ago since auction, holds
my £29. Plain figures —Borrowed on machinery,
£3O ; received cash, £26 4s. ; signed a promissory
note for £32 in consideration of the £26 45.; paid off
£9; machine sold, £52 10s,—£61 10s. Deduct
£32, amount of promissory-note, leaves £29 10s.
over and above my indebtedness to the usurer,
whose first charge, as you will have noticed,
amounted to just about U 0 per cent. Am I only
one of hundreds?— Y ’r , Done Brown, Mel-
bourne, 29th April, 1888.


A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
. k *ll j .CHARLES S. PACKER
i.. w Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Thalberg
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the world’s’
jweetest smgers-Mario Grisi, Lablache ; the author of
the Crown of Thorns, and many other noble comnnsi
turns, handed us the followingcomposi-
<<i hr., ra f TT “Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
M„Ja h n V t® d „ the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs Beale and Company, in all the various grades and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
be t ? eBl st d - J he P r °per balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER. Royal Academician ”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant sounds les PIANOS HAPSBURG de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVe”
Je declare avoir aussi charm6e que siirorise Hp la
boUCEUREXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER?unfe a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUARLES Je les
toute sinc6riW. ALICE CHARBONNET-
Juln L lBB3^ ,AN ’ dU Conservatoire de Pa ris, Sydney, 20
CERTIFICATE.
pt'a mo ! 8 "’ ) .i ected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly sumn’HfHi
MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER, i cordially recommend them.—-(Signedl ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the ConservatoireTf
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.” conservatoire of
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
P 9™ p( ?® er of Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs
H^STmR t O^>?AN I rl? USI T n, exa v, mined and tested the
HA PS BORG 11ANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
B omlt A u thU !i Palm ?’ Li f u t e nant-Qovernor of Queensland
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness. 8 0
The BRISBANE COURIER.
" Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.” s
TELEGRAPH.
J' T . h . e . Pian °.l 18ed " nthe occaBion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.” 8
The AUSTRALIAN.
mlnPlhrnu 68 blended beautifully with the accompanl-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
Sf I thfi°^n r in I ’fn nd ltS pities under the thrilling touch
Of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
rim SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone.”
..t2°h TH k AUS^ ALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
Bh . Th lP apsbu U? Pianos are all of excellent workman-
Bhip. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
11 Bishop's-court, Adelaide, November 29 1883
Reunion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
S"X e &roS. p ' , “ edbl ' ,h •
i.g MSS B “° h p '
HAYDN ORGANS.
N ever require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. g Tho
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construe!
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone/
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 Gborqb-strbbt, Stdnbt.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will
supply you with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium
upon EASY TIME PAYMENTS
Auctions.
SATURDAST, Bth SEPIEKBEE,
ON THE GROUND,
At 3 O’Clock.
THE unrivalled ESTATE,
Bell Street Reserve, No. 2 P
COBURG,
COBURG,
COBURG.
Frontages to
bell street,
BELL STREET,
BELL STREET.
BROADWAY ROAD,
BROADWAY ROAD.
O’HEA’S ROAD,
O’HE ABROAD,
.TAME 5 STREET,
LANDSDOWNE STREET,
TURNER STREET,
HITTER STREET,
EASTGATEand WESTGATE STREETS.
Balance of Unsold Allotments,
Having Frontages to the above Streets, will be
SOLD WITHOUT RESERVE.
On mmi sth mm t ms,
Thus affording the Public
IST ONE MORE OPPORTUNITY
Of Securing an Allotment
In this Undoubtedly Popular Estate,
Bell Street Reserve, No. 2
ADVANTAGES TO PURCHASERS:
The Highest Part of Coburg.
The Healthiest Suburb near Melbourne,
Charming Views.
Delightful Locality.
Four Miles from the Ci y.
Ten Minutes from Railway Station.
Railway to Coburg to be Duplicated.
Tramways beine Constructed.
Water Mains aloe g Each Street.
Every Street Formed and Metalled.
Adjoins the Mansion of Thomas Fischer, Esq.
MUHRO and BAILLIEU
Are instructed to sell the whole of the
REMAINING UNSOLD ALLOTMENTS
IN
BELL STREET RESERVE, No. 2,
ON
Saturday, Bth September,
At 3 O Clock.
ON THE GROUND,
TERMS :
£5 DEPOSIT EACH LOT.
£5 IN ONE MONTH.
Balance :
3,6, 9, 12,18, and 24 MONTHS at fi PER CENT.
LUNCHEON PROVIDED.
REMEMBER THE DATE OF SALE—
Saturday, Bth September.
CALL FOR PLANS AND RAILWAY
PASSES.
Solicitors:
FINK, BEST, and P. D. PHILLIPS,
Surveyor :
J. L. REILLY.
Auctioneers :
MUNRO and BAILLIEU,
40 and 42 COLLINS-SXREET EAST,
MELBOURNE.
s. FREEMAN a sons,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mo's Baking Mrs. Orient Stun Hi).
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD A CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PERSIAN SSEREET.
Slo., &o,
STEAM WORKS.*
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify tbs Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MHLAOHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. OADBMBNO, CAIRO.
Wa ate sow offering theae exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIOAREIIES, il« PINESI BRANDS of CMS,
VO
Ootmtnur* Direct at Wholetalt Prictt I
*r Non this Paloll
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“SBSOSTRIS” Brand—ln Tin Boxes of IM. at
MX BHIMJDfOS KAen!
w By buying from ns you will save at leant
16 per cent.
WARREM & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 BARRACK STREET, S7BIBT
(opposite Savings Bank).
IMAGING SEASON, 1888 and 1881 L
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, S ' DNKT.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
I aces on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
oporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
Csitfenniaß Hotel,
SCOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newca> tle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Hot, Cold, and Shower Baths on each Flat
BILLIARDS I BILLIARDS!
HURLS Hotel is now opened, and admit!ed to be
1 the Bast Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
Colony. It is beautifully situated, being directly
opposite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
Railway Station, and convenient to all the Public
Buildings. A porter meets all trains and steamers
Letters and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
QOOKTOWN, QUEENSLAND*
TO If E T
FOR A LONG PERIOD TO A GOOD
TENANT,
Allotment 5 of Section 14, Town of Cooktown,
lately the property of W. J. Hartley, Esq., and
sold at a fancy price ; it is without exception
UNEQUALLED AS A BUILDING SITE,
and suitable for a
GRAND HOTEL, COFFEE PALACE, or
MERCHANT’S WAREHOUSE,
Besides having the advantages of frontage to
the wharves and Endeavour River, it has still
another and greater one, in having a
GOVERNMENT RESERVE
on either side, so that the
RISK OF FIRE
is reduced to a minimum which is a serious item
in the erection of large premises in our Northern
Territory.
Particulars as to “ Term of Lease,” &e., will be
supplied to Principals only on application to
W. R. SMITH,
_ Auctioneer, &c., Cooktown,
Entertainment. —wanted, two
ACTORS or ANY NOVELTY to join a
first-class Entertainment about to take a four or
six months’ tour through New Zealand. Address,
Manager, 2 Hillside Terrace, Hoddle Street,
Richmond, Melbourne.
Qualified journalist seeks Engage
ment as editor of Country Newspaper.
Weekly or bi-weekly preferred. Testimonials and
references on application to “Delta,” Bulletin
Offise.
Business Announcements
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manupaotobt :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
m
ASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
LIPP and SOHN,
L. NEUFELD and
at WHOLESALE
LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-teet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
PIANOFORTES by R.
CARL RONISCH,
other Celebrated Makers i
PRICES. NEWTON and
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spuing and O’Connell Stbbbtb.
F POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Kedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs,— Wakdbobb, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboaed
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbino Steeets.
fd
Austrian bent
wood
FURNITURE.
A V BBT OOMPHTI
Assobtmsnt,
Manjr quite new designs.
Nbwton & Lamb.
spaa
CANVAS FOLDING
DOTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s, 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.: BxB
9xB, 9s - 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.: 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
4L
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
f
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbino and O’Connell Stbeets.
Lawn and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb,
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
R
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
_r 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
Hd., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets. B
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Pricesr
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
B
'EDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
s
PRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, fees
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAM
Messrs. BEALE & 00, beg to announce tha
they are now in occupation of their new and exte
sire warehouses at the rear of their new buildin
at 482 and 484 George-street. In anticipation oi
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Hape
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninst
far and Oriental steamers and other ships a real
magnificent choice of these celebrated instrument
which, by sheer merit, have won their way :
public favour beyond all competitors. Man
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughou
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies hav
satasfaidr* 1 US es^mon^s expressing perfec
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in
herently from that of other pianos. The followin
are some of the qualities which have togethe
placed it in pre-eminence
Ist, The most easy and durable action yet in
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement
Ihe parts have been selected with extreme care
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen
sive material, but one which will neither shrink
cast, nor warp.
2nd, The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, th«
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
Ha P«burgs are trichord,
fin m Illave seven octaves Ato A.
bth. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. 1 hese frames are square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
mL . sustam the whole with absolute rigidity.
1 hat these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
8 vfu ll ™ ? nly required at long intervals.
7th. ihe lelts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
burg Wlth Qearly every piano excepting the Haps-
-Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
nate as a spemal siifeguard against change. A
Haps burg 3 P ' 18 an unknown accident to a
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided. 6 B
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
interchangeable? 6 aC^ion * 8 Stable and
12th. The Outer Cases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned durable, and beautiful woods, and
van behad in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.


SGHANSCHIEFF ELECTRIC LIGHT.
of &30.3 T Coal S"o.ppl3T D
A SINGLE-LIQUID PRIMARY BATTERY.
Self-contained Portable Electric Lamps. Non-Explosive.
NO MACHINERY OE ANY KIND REQUIRED TO GENERATE THE ELECTRIC CURRENT.
OF
The Victorian Schanschieif Electric Light I Power Company, Limited.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER “THE COMPANIES ACT 1864.”
Capital; £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of ii each.
IF’irst Issue of 75,000 £ liaxes.
25 000 Shares, representing £25,000, being reserved for future issue if required for the extension of the Company’s operations. 10,000 Shares, part of this issue, arc reserved
for Allotment to the Vendor as part of the consideration for the Purchase hereinafter mentioned. The remaining 65,000 Shares are now offered for Public Subscription,
payable as follows :
ss. on Application; ss. on Allotment, ss. in Three Months and ss. in Six Months after Allotment.
EARLY APPLICATION NECESSARY.
The Permanent Directors, Auditors and other Officers of the Company will be selected from amongst the Shareholders at the First General Meeting.
Sole Managing Director (pro tem.) : ALICE COENWELL, A r endor, Midas Offices, Queen Street.
Bankers : BANK OE AUSTRALASIA, Melbourne, Ballarat and Sandhurst (who will receive Applications for Shares.)
Solicitors : CUTHBEET, HAMILTON & WYNNE. Brokers ; All the recognised Brokers of Melbourne.
Electrician :A.C. E. WEBB, Esq., A.S.T.E. Offices aad Agent for Vendor : JAMES BUENETT, 4 Queen Street, Melbourne.
This Company is formed to purchase from the
Vendor her right, title, and interest in the Patent
Rights for Victoria, of the Schanschieff Electric
Light Battery.
The following clause is quoted from the agree-
ment between the Schanschieff Syndicate and
Alice Cornwell; —
The Vendors shall communicate to the pur-
chaser all improvements, additions, and new
discoveries in, upon, or relatino to the said in-
ventions now (if at all) in the possession of the
Vendors, or which may hereafter be acquired by
them, and shall do all such acts and things, at
the expense of the purchaser, as she may reason-
ably require, to entitle her to obtain patents there,
for in the countries , patents for which shall have
been assigned to the purchaser as aforesaid, m
pursuance of this agreement, or otherwise for
securing to her the full benefit of all such improve-
ments, additions and discoveries aforesaid.
The Company will undertake the importation,
or manufacture and sale, of Primary Electric
Batteries on the Schanschieff principle, for the
various purposes for which such batteries have
been proved to be eminently suited—namely,
self-contained miners’ lamps ; table, bracket, and
hand lamps; railway carriage and vehicle lights
of every description; and for the lighting of
private houses, business premises, public build-
ings, theatres, gardens and conservatories; for
signal and ship lights; electro motors; and for
military, naval, photographic, laboratory and sur-
gical purposes.
The Schanschieff Battery is a single fluid
primary battery, thus obviating the use of all
machinery to produce the electro-motive force, as
is the case with secondary batteries, which require
to be charged from a dynamo. In its composition
the battery is an exceedingly simple combination
of carbon-zinc elements charged by a special solu-
tion of a salt of mercury invented by Mr. Schan-
schieff. When in action the mercury is deposited
in the cells, and is thus not lost, but is easily
reinstated in proper solution for fresh use.
The batteries and lamps can be readily charged,
and zincs replaced, by an ordinary workman or
domestic servant, while the carbon places do not
require renewing, and will last an indefinite time.
The battery is charged by pouring the solution
into the vessel ready to receive it, in the same
manner as an ordinary oil-lamp is filled, and
without the slightest risk of failure or accident,
and no knowledge of electricity is needed in the
operation. When not in use the zincs and car-
bons are held suspended out of the solution by a
very simple, compact, and effective arrangement;
so that the battery maybe worked intermittently,
or may remain out of use for any period of time,
without loss of electric energy or consumption of
materials.
Ip.Country Districts.
Every one acquainted with the up-country dis-
tricts of the Colony will understand at once what
a boon will be conferred upon the agricultural and
pastoral population by the introduction of an
electric light which can be bought by the pint, just
as kerosene oil can now be bought. Any one,
coming into town on Saturday night to buy the
necessaries for the following week, will be able, as
soon as the Schanschieff is on sale to order the
supply of the liquid required for the household,
and to carry it back without any fear of accident
or explosion in the saddlebag, if on horseback, or
in the cart or buggy. The stockyard, stable,
farm, and garden, all alike, come within the scope
of this great modern reform, and a light that can-
not be blown out, that cannot set fire to straw or
other litter, and that can be extinguished or relit
as often as required, simply by taking hold of one
handle or the other, needs but little advertisement
up country to make it universally popular, and
proportionately profitable to investors in the
Company.
The Miner’s Lamp.
Saving to Miners.— Assuming that 100,000
candles are used daily in Victorian Mines, these
candles, at the current rate of per lb. of 0
candles, not reckoning waste, cost £452 fer
diem. Now, 50,000 Schansehieff Lamps of 2
candle-power will supply about the same volume
of light at a cost of £260 per diem. The saving
to the mining community under this head would
therefore stand at about £172 per diem. This is
equal to £51,600 per annum of 300 working days.
Deduct from this £5600 for interest on cost of
lamps, wear and tear, etc , and the balance still
represents an actual saving to the mining com-
munity of nearly 38 per cent, on the present cost
of lighting Victorian Mines.
While effecting this enormous saving to the
mining community, the profits arising out of the
supply as estimated above will amount to 30 per
cent on the paid-up capital of the Company of
£75,000, after making liberal allowance for the
cost of distribution, advertising, and all other
charges under this head. These figures are based
upon very careful calculations by Mr, Webb, the
Electrician to the Company, and upon the cost of
production on the very small scale of 30 gallons
per diem. It is needless to point out the safety of
this, and how materially the profits will be in-
creased when 30,000 gallons are manufactured
daily.
NOTE. —It is stated by one of the directors of
“ Broken Hill ” that in that mine alone the con-
sumption of candles is 5 Tons per months. This
serves to illustrate the consumption. While a
director of “ Dowling Forest Estate No. 1” de-
clares that the use of candles, with unavoidable
waste, brings up the price to 9d. per lb. This is
sufficient to show the enormous saving which the
Schansehieff Lamp will accomplish for those who
adopt it, and the liberality of the preceding cal-
culations.
Vehicle Lights.
It is hardly necessary to dwell upon the obvious
advantages of a cheaper, stronger, and better light
in tramcars, omnibuses, cabs, and private car-
riages. But as the Schansehieff aims at making a
special feature of carriage lights, both outside and
inside, it need only be said that the Schansehieff
Company is prepared to put in a light of superior
quality at a cheaper rate into each and every de-
scription of vehicle, and to guarantee that the
light in question cannot be blown out by any
strength of wind, will require no lighting by
matches or any other expedient, and will be abso-
lutely reliable as a perfectly steady light under all
circumstances. On bush roads the value of such
a light as this cannot possibly be exaggerated.
The consumption of liquid here should be very
great, and the profits proportionately large.
Skips’ Lighting.
A want that has been long and acutely felt is a
light which can be carried about in the holds of
vessels, where inflammable or dangerous cargo is
stored, one that is not liable to do mischief by up-
setting, breaking, spilling, or the neglect of ser-
vants. Another want has been a portable lamp
which cannot be blown out by the, wind, a light
that can be rapidly lit or extinguished, for the use
of officers, quartermasters, and purser’s staff when
going round the ship. These wants the Schans-
chieff Patent meets efficiency, cheaply, and com-
pletely. Thus the sale of lamps and liquid supply
for the requirements of ship use should prove a
very large source of revenue.
NOTE. —There are 14,000 vessels engaged in
Intercolonial trade, apart from British and
foreign Shipping which enters and clears in the
Colonies.
Railways.
Under this head we need only refer investors to
the extract printed elsewhere from the Railway
News (London). It may safely be anticipated
that a very large source of income will accrue to
the Company under this heading.
Lonsumptfon of Liquid.
In Hayter’s Victorian Handbook of Statistics,
for the year 1887, the consumption of kerosene is
shown to be 1,711,243 gallons, the retail cost of
which ranges, according to quality, from 1?. 4d.
to 3s. per gallon. The Schanschieff liquid can be
sold at 8d. per gallon, and at this great reduction
in price the company will net nearly 40 per cent,
in profit, while the consumer will gain absolute
safety and freedom from fire and explosion, and
the very beautiful light of the Schanschieff lamp
as contrasted with the bid oil lamp.
While the consumption of candles is estimated
at 7,056,393 lbs., which are equal, say, to the light
afforded by 3,367,258 gallons of the Schanschieff
liquid, from these two sets of figures it is quite
possible that the consumption of Schanschieff
liquid may reach as high as 8,000,000 gallons per
annum, which would mean, in round figures, a
business of a quarter of a million of money,
upon which the Company would nett a dividend
of at last 90 per cent, per annum on the proposed
issue of the Company. However, to make a
liberal discount upon the above statement, it may
be fairly assumed that at least one-half of the
Victorian public, now indebted to kerosene and
candles for their light, will appreciate the value
and the comfort of the Schanschieff Patent, con-
sidering its undeniable advantages of economy,
brilliancy, and freedom from explosion or fire, and
this will only reduce the above estimate to 44
per cent, per annum. In these figures it will be
seen no calculation is made for any competition
with either “gas”or the “dynamopatents.” And
without interfering with gas in any way, it may
be questioned whether many households, though
using gas for ordinary supply, will be without the
beautiful light of the Schanschieff Portable Elec-
tric Reading Lamps—the soft Schanschieff night
light for the sickroom—the portable battery to
illuminate fairy lights for the dinner table, and,
having done its work there, to light up the
Japanese lanterns for the verandah—the portable
garden, stable, outhouse, and cellar hand lamps.
Indeed, as Sir William Thomson and Mr. Preece
both say, “ there is a wide and varied application
for its use.” And this on lines quite impossible
to a stationary light like gas.
Batteries and Miners’ Lamps.
The local manufacture of these is a question for
the permanent directors to decide; meanwhile
they can be imported from London, so that no
delay in fulfilling orders need take place.
Public Supply.
As a guide to the probable popularity of the
Schanschieff Patent, it may be mentioned that 16-
cell Batteries, giving about 16 candle power, are
avoiced to Vendor at SOs. each, the average cost
i
of batteries being 2s. per cell. When ordered in
large quantities, this truly popular price will no
doubt be materially decreased. The Miners’
Lamps are invoiced at a guinea, and there is no
doubt this price also may be reduced in a large
order, and here certainly a very large sale may be
anticipated, which will largely add to the revenue
of the Company.
Manufacture of Liquid.
The starting of this manufacture will not entail
any serious outlay. The process is very simple.
Little plant is required, and consists mainly of
ordinary brick furnaces, vats, and light engine-
power for driving purposes.
Supply of Liquid.
The retail grocers in every town will have it
supplied in glass-bottles, earthenware jars, or
wooden casks, of various sizes, direct from the
Melbourne factory, and send it round to their
customers in the same way as kerosene. The
empties sent in the first instance will await the
returns, and be dealt with in the same way that
aerated water companies deal with soda water-
bottles, etc.
Electrician.
With regard to the scientific working of the
Patent, the interests of the shareholders are
secure in the competent hands of Mr. A. 0. F.
Webb, A.S.T.E , and nephew of Mr. W. Preece,
F.R.S., C.E., M.S T.E , who has been specially
selected by the inventor and the English Syndi-
cate to superintend, for the Vendor, the opera-
tions of the Australian Company.
Terms.
The consideration to be given by the Company
for the purchase of the Patent Rights previously
referred to is £30,000, to be paid as follows
10,000 shares fully paid up, and a bill at four
months from the Company for the balance of
£20,000.
Capita).
The sum of forty-five thousand pounds (£45,000),
less the brokerage and the incidental expenses in
connection with the floating of the Company down
to the allotment of shares, will be appropriated
out of present issue for working capital, which it is
considered will meet the requirements of the Com-
pany’s operations at the outset. The remaining
twenty-live thousand shares will be available
should further capital be required.
Public View.
The battery may be inspected at the temporary
offices of the Victorian Sohanschieff Electric Light
and Power Company, Limited, 4 Queen-street,
where a variety of lamps adapted to various pur-
poses can be seen and tested.
Applications.
The Bank of Australasia, having consented to
receive applications for shares in this Company,
the accompanying forma should be filled in and
sent with the deposit to the Head Office in Mel-
bourne, or to any of the Receiving Branches in
Ballarat and Sandhurst. In any case where no
allotment is made, the deposit will be returned to
the applicant in full; and when the number of
shares allotted is less than the number applied for,
the surplus will be rredited in reduction of the
further amount payable on the allotment.
Prospectuses and fo-ms of application can be
obtained at the Offices of the Company, or from
the Bankers, Solicitors, Alice Cornwell (Managing
Director, pro. tem.), or any of the recognised
Brokers of Melbourne.
Melbourne, 13th August, 1888.


Business Announcements.
t3T THE ONLT ■«
MUSICAL HEKT
Direct Supply Association I
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. fid. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355,
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
o
The finest show of ACCOUDEOJN b to be seen
In the colonies from 10s. fid. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon
Patent Silver ~ „
Patent Steel
30s. Od.
325. fid.
355. Od.
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and kxtea set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
Mil Mil SIMS.
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is,, and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Siltii, Cello, Viola Double Bios,
Mar, k, k
■Kg S
Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
,lia, having by the last American Mail received
extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARB
5, b or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 •> I, n £4 l°/-»
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
RASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
jon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
icial lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
uments packed carefully and sent to any part of
3 colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
OUIS SBI6OISEB, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
M
K
o
s
T
O
U
yVo ENTS
DELISSAB. PHILLIPS
3&J Barrack Street.
E. C. ELEY
o
V
&
m
&
9
&
O'
£
A
<<)
*
V
V
&
JO
<0
&
o
v
c>
v 5
0
fr 5
*
o
£
0
*
o
V*
o
v
d
fd
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY.
FOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
IFE PRESERVATION;
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Stbeet East, Melbodbnb.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. fid. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,822.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors’Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS s
8 months, 5 per cent.
fi n fi it
12 „ 7 ~
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
HO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYONEY.
I ?
FOB ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAT
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
■10!
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tho Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Sola Agmti lob the above for New Sooth Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Including Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &o. • and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING i Tanners' Tools sod Materials Indents executed on Favourable Terms
Business Announcements.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
Wa recommend those BITTERS to be taken twl
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially npon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
Ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 80, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
„ 0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 81, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to 1
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
DOWS
m
Bow's Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Bow’s Bteane’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity,
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row B
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884."
Bow’s Steane’a wine
has also weaned many persona from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsui
passed.
TRY THEM,
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANK’B BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL BO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROWS QUININE BITTERS,
ROWS DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROWS ASSORTED WINES
Sold Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 46, 4? GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
The bearskins of the British Foot Guards
are doomed. Hitherto £7 ss. has been paid in
order to make a guardsman magnificent.
The Nordenfelt is said to be the torpedo
of the future—not a pleasant piece of information
for the British Government, who bought the
Brennan, now practically obsolete, for an enormous
sum. The new torpedo can travel for two miles,
is both propelled and steered by electricity, and
can be fired with equal facility from the shore or
from a vessel.
“ It is possible that Bishop Barry, Primate of Australia,
will accept a British bishopric.” —Cablegram from the
English Collect-end.
The dove broodeth over the waters many days ere
she findeth rest for the sole of her foot. The
Bishop is evidently careful over-much of the con-
stitutions which have been undermined by over-
indulgence in meat, and is anxious to break the
sad news to us gently.
A very young Melbourne undertaker re-
cently gave a champagne-supper to celebrate his
first funeral. The company drank to the corpse,
and many of ’em, in respectful silence, after
which the “ Coffin Industry ” and “Mutes” were
toasted with musical honours—the “ Dead March
in Saul.” It was quite a jolly Feast of Death,
and confirms our old belief in undertaker’s humour.
William’s Australian Insecticide Is death to all Insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This Is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosqurros
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Another good man has, with the aid of the
inevitable woman, fallen from high up the Tas-
manian social ladder. To make matters worse, he
has always been regarded as quite an authority
on religious doctrine and moral conduct.
During the winter of 1870-71, Von Moltke,
while at Versailles, ran short of snuff, and in-
structed a subordinate at Berlin to forward him a
packet of his “own peculiar” rappee. The snuff
was bought, paid for, sent to Versailles, and duly
charged to the account of the nation. After peace
had been concluded, the official intrusted with the
revision of the War Office accounts came upon
this startling if m: “ For one pound of extra fine,
with of-Tonqui i - bean - perfume - highly - impreg-
nated snuff, i o his Excellency, the Count Von
Moltke, com anded, three thalers, seven and a-
half silbergr. chen,” The auditor would not pass
this unprecedented item, but made a memo, of the
entry, referred it to his superior, with the sugges-
tion that x \ snuff could not be held to be a
material nor ammunition of war, it could not be
saddled upon the exchequer. The item passed
from one official to another, until it came to the
Crown lawyers, who gave their opinion that the
State could not pay the snuff-claim. Von Moltke
was officially addressed and requested to pay for
his snuff, and he at once complied with the
demand.
A Lovklt and Dblioatb Complexion.— This is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalvdor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces- soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Ronslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be bad from Hookings of 110 George-street, nnder
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*


AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS Co.,
LIMITED.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT, 1861.
Capital .... £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
Payable by Deposit, 2s. 6d. per Share on Application, and 2s. 6d. per Share on Allotment, Balance by Calls when
necessary, but no call to be made within one month of the previous call.
- ■ 101 ■ -
jras 20,000 SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR.
Provisional Directors :
G. H. BENNETT, Esq. (Ex-Mayor of Rich-
mond). ~ , T ,. A
G. C. CLAUSEN, Esq. (Ex-Mayor of Fitz-
roy).
F. GROSSE, Esq., Tomnga.l
R K. MONTGOMERIE, Esq., New Brewery.
W. MANNING FOSTER, Esq , Melbourne.
L. KONG MENG, Esq., Melbourne.
G. MAYGER, Esq., Melbourne.
0. F. TAYLOR, Esq., 8.A., Melbourne.
JOHN ROWAN, Esq., J.P., Merchant, Mount
Gambier.
G. M. PICKLES, Esq., Pickles Carriage Manu>
facturing Company,
COLONEL MORGAN, U. S. Consul of America.
JAMBS MOORE, Esq., J.P., Contractor,
Melbourne.
W. H. MASTERS, Esq., W. H. Masters & Co.,
Importers.
Bankers :
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors :
Messes. TATLOR & RUSSELL.
Architect:
OEO. R. JOHNSON, Esq.
Auditors :
HOWELL & MUEDELL.
Broker:
W. B. LOVERING, Nicholson Chambers,
Secretary :
T. N. CURNOW.
Office : NICHOLSON CHAMBERS, SWANSTON STREET.
The land has increased in value £5OOO since it was purchased from Mr. Murphy. The whole of this profit is in favour of the
Shareholders. The list will positively close on the 30th of SEPTEMBER next, when Tenders will be called for the erection of the
various buildings.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
The Greatest Success!
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
I All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Ur, B, E, KUHELUM, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist eor all Chronic Diseases,
60 WIUUH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance. , „ ~
Mr Kugeltnann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chrome Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
U ReaiT the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July, 1886.
To H. E. Kusblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &c.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883 but, thinking it was only a severe cold, 1 did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kvneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists medi-
cines. as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
curable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
tour advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
vou could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours I' RANK E. E.
KNIGHT. Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton. —THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
ffS* All Consultations Free. '££&
Notice.— lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
i lomsifil EBMSDI
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Aohins Painb in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d», 65., and 10s,
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED BYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Byes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Ohemlst,
581 Georffo-otreet, only.
TATTERSALL’S
imm COHSULTATIOKS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Kventi
throughout the Tear. For fall particulars set
i‘ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities li
“Evening Nows." Address, "Tattersall’s," can
of George Adams, Tattorsall’s Club, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery*
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, on*
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
J M PORTANT NEWS.
“ A remarkable find of gold-bearing quartz has
been made at Yilgarn (W.A.) A large area is
covered on the surface with stone containing gold.
Specimens brought into Perth are of a marvel-
lously rich character, one of which, when broken
revealed gold in great quantities. S.M. Hebald
Juiy 25th, 1888.) “ Arrangements have been
completed for the construction of the West Aus-
tralian Midland Railway. ”—(S.M. Hbeald,
July 17, 1888.)
Telegrams are appearing daily in the Press re-
cording rich gold discoveries in Western Aus-
tralia.
Now is the time to make a profitable purchase
of land in Perth, the capital of Western Aus-
tralia. It is offered for a mere song, but shortly
will not be obtainable except at much higher
prices, for Western Australia is certainly booked
for a prosperous era, and Perth property will
increase with rapidity even as property has done
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, &c.
EVELEIGH ESTATE, PERTH,
Elevated, good building land ; well-situated, and
only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting Go-
vernment road. Ten Pounds each lot. Terms —
£1 deposit; balance, 10s. monthly. No Interest.
Free deeds absolutely to purchasers of five lots.
Title, Torrens. Pamphlet containing valuable in-
formation and marked plan of the Estate for-
warded to any address on application to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JO HI IST BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
6BD. GBD. GBD.
CHIB CAUCUS AND Tt AVOURIIB BRAND
01
briar pipes.
Still maintain! its Prestige and standi era-eminent aasot
Ibe basks ol other brands as
THE BUST QUALITY BBIAB PIPI OPfBBED XL
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforsa lbs Lav again I,
all persons imitating tbe brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT ft 00.,
11l OLAEENOB-BTBBBX.
GBD. GtBD.
We hare Large Shipments of tbls BRAND OP BBIAi
PIPES to band and Begnlar Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
BRUHTO ITS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Out be obtained throughout New South Walea,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 84 Pitt Stbiw.
BRISBANE... ... ...Bdwabd Street.
MELBOURNE Spence* Btbbee.
NOTHING LIKE ITI! 1
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS I
The concealed cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met In everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make It of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these Instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
LICHTITBE CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC - STOCK - WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, m
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE
888 S
i
V;
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 Vie.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... ... m 41,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... m 433,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKBT, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years „ V per cent. I For 1 year _ e per oenl.
For 6 months 1 per cent. | For 8 months _ 8 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate sea!
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hbad OitlOß— lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
A
USTRALIAN MUTUAL
SOCIETY.
PROVIDENT
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney,
Directors:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. O. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A,
Secretary;
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR. i
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
Business Announcements.
K'ng’s V'ews
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c., &c,,
315 SEOSSE ST., btnn Butir-ti, asi 5,P,J,


Hotels.
Gf-13 .A. iT 3D t HOTEL.
corner of
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
COSGROVE
6.(1
nM
t Ml® 811
IpfH-'
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) Proprietress.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
Ladies* Drawing-Rooms. Reading |and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison
Doors open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.46
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Pbioes, 55., Bs., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar; Treasurer. Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS NELLIE FARREN’S LONDON
GAIETY COMPANY in Monte Oeisto, Jun.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
SHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thubsday and Satubday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &o.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
XkOTANY J BOTANY 1 BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
Gband Saobkd and Classical Congest of
Well-known Abtibts.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Ohas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free,
FRANK SMITH ... Dibectob.
RITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H, J. MAGEE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
LAST TWO NIGHTS
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the highly successful Comedv by
JUSTIN M'ARTHY, Esq., M.P. (England),
THE CANDIDATE
THE CANDIDATE
THE CANDIDATE.
ADMISSION—Ss., 35.. 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington'
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COMB AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
THE JAPS, KOTOMO and MUKEKB,
In an ENTIRELY NEW CHANGE of ACTS.
BONELESS and SINEWLESS.
Concluding with the Laughable Burlesque,
MULDOONS CHRISTENING
MULDOON’S CHRISTENING.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, id
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET. OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB
Gentlemen's Outfitting in Bvbby Bbanoh,
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool. Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Mr cintoshes. Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. U mbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapol and Sealskin
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Lavatoky and Dbessing-Room Provided.
R. NEIL MACKAYTatone time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
oate with this office immediately to save further
trouble, Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Amusements.
COOGEB PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director —Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Sharing 1 Skating 1 Skating 1
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Evkby Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is. ;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopfobd, Sub Manager.
ONDI AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
A
OAD E M Y
Lessee and Proprietor
OF MUSIC.
... F. E. Hiscocks.
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, and
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
PROFESSOR CANNARIS
THE GREAT GREEK ILLUSIONIST.
THE WONDER OF THE WORLD.
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
MORNING SESSIONS
FOE
LADIES AND CHILDREN ONLY.
1000 pairs of the world-renowned Winslow Vine-
yard Skates for Sale. These skates are used
exclusively by all professionals, and are the best
made skate ever manufactured.
’Buses will leave Wynyard-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, ONE SHILLING.
Gr
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
THE MOST FASHIONABLE SINK IN SYDNEY.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
ADMISSION, Is.
In active preparation,
Grand Fancy Dress and Masquerade Carnival.
Watch further announcementts.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
ALHAMBRA MUSIC HALL,
J\ George Street, Haymarkbt.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
“FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD'S Picture and Moulding
• Store, 399 George street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheap°st in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid School Drawings. Plush
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
Business Announcements.
THE
‘ PLUM
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Neve*
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
GHABO & AITKEII, Fotosi HaSrcutting Saloon,
STREET,
680 GEORGE
Nine Hair cutters always Employed
BRIOKriELD
HILL, SYDNEY.
THE
PLUM"
Razor.
A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gaspitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medleval Metal Workers.
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
F erdriau Co.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
BRSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all pnrpoica.
Lists and Samples on application.
f
NEW BILLIARO TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS. &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men,
SE;(DfES,CUES,BALLS m stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS ftlQWm
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
I little George Street, SYDNEY, H.S.W., and Soho Square, LOHPOBr
df
i
fn consequence of Imitations of TH& WORCESTERSHJRS
SAUCE which aft calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and /Wd
have to request that purchasers S&Jthat the Lahti & qtety
heart their Signal# fi thus**
without fbhich fid bottle of the original WO JR CEZ TERSNIRJP
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fot LEA and PEER/RS* SdUce, and see frame on Wrapper, Label, BctdeamS
Stopper. Wholesale and, for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester !. Crosse and
iUoebwell, London, £rv., &V.; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
I I in Mil——
WheSUmlm AaptAa Marnymm dosage & CCiX OBSUBO 9b Ok
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE OB’ ST.S.W™
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eto., am
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherchi
dinner, yon can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also yon can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Plonlo Parties provided. Table
de Hdtt at 1 o'clock daily and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminsts* to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
Eire. EULER HESTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opogitj OCEAN BEACH, MAMLTi
WOMAN AGAINST WOMAN.
MRS. MORRIS PARKE: “MR. RIVES IS OUT A GREAT DEAL AT NIGHT, ISN’T
HE? MY HUSBAND ALWAYS SPENDS HIS EVENINGS AT HOME!”
MRS. RIVERSIDE RIVES : “HOW KIND OF HIM! BUT. THEN, YOU KNOW,
RIVERSIDE AND I HAVE SUCH PERFECT CONFIDENCE IN EACH
OTHER! "—PUCK.
