

CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
THE BULLETIN
Aak wm*
Owes* (or
Frfa Mali f Cocoa.
J, S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, Lokjdojt afd Sw>m.
««An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a plat of the beat Ale or porter.”—-Lurcrr,
su’vid. T o3D.es
CHRISTMAS LIST
OF THEIR CELEBRATED
FOR
IK5\:
SUMMER WEAR
reliable Materials, Doubly Shrunk; Sewing Guaranteed; the Rest Trimmings; the
Most Economical Clothing Procurable in the Colony,
IK* i mu Salts:—
it quality, aU-wobl Angola' Tweedy soft, light, e!~ ■•'••''• »»d durable...
a quality, all-wool Tweeds,, and Silk Mixtures • *•*
M» -y‘ial quality, all-wool Tweeds, fashionable Checks and,in< at Mixtwfes
Super,, especially selected all-wool Tweed?;, equal to owe?
Serge, thoroughly shrunk, fast colour ... 1
■|lq Flannel, light, cool and comfortable
HMb» ay)#l Hvhwri Wow!.? rl. n ~*mrii?X
s» A.
b, d.
ft b, Grey and Brown Worsted, a speciality for summer wear
m Hit Trousers asid Vasts:—
HSPbclal assortment :for present? season, comprising, same variety
r V«u Orient Suits ' ..." ... ' l%!
B§ ; . Thoroughly Shrunk and. Fit Spl
P? Tweeds, an extensive variety ...
Worsted, the, most stylish patterns, fa ' colon.;-
.
and Coloured Duck, from
"Worsted, 15s. 6d, to 215.; Black Boos' in
m§
Sac Goats:—
IWable, Tweeds, thorough,;
k r> * Worsted ...
&*5»
(H., 11 ® Slav :
C 8 -
!■ % d Coloured * ■ p?
Odloxirmb'Cr , .
Gotton Duck ... '
X&aen Duck '
s s
- v -e v
2?a. ficl
Patrol Jackets:—
White and Coloured Duck, from
Black Alpaca a»£d Cashmere ... ] ■ *”*
White Flannel ... ...
i
8.-B. Vests:— -
Black Cloth and Worsted ... ... . . 9a M
Black Alpaca and Cashmere, from ... **.* **' ’
Waabsng Vests, large variety, specially selected designs, white, seif
colours and fancy patterns ... ... *■?
' ’• .• ; ?i -: m i *<m -
< **' ../ »*i . »,» ... ■
Overcoats, Paletots, and Dust Coats:—
Self Coloured Meltfons ... ...
Hew Shades; Worsted Coatings ... -
Drab Lawn, light and durable ...
China Silk ... ... ... ... .**’■
• ... • ***
Cricket, Tennis, or Lounge Jackets:-
Check Zephyr Cloth
Striped Flannels, fast colours ... ... , )(i
• ; **’
Beautiful Shades and Patterns Washing Flannel, with Ttom&m. !I*
. Stylish Homesptin, good colours n », 111
Dressing Downs
A choice variety in Summer Tweeds, &c., from ...
“The Oxford,” a speciality for hot weather ....
r •■■■ ' . ■■■ '
Every variety of Garments and Materials.
Sole Agents for the celebrated “Para” Waterproof Coat, impermeahb*
by water, wear guaranteed.
■>
©riexxt Clotlxlexe,
y* -j 3 f i)irc.cti< as fox Jl L'P-ICEAStII.EMEKX sont ibST TREE to all parts of Australia -


TOBACCO
Ml
i rr.
i€
m
"S
.*; ■
m
□CI
uIXSRSONS
u/=
£
a
0,
V
V
1R ROGER)
fiO*
0
OIXSQNS
Excelsior hotel, ,charters
towers.
Beoond Brick Hotel Building erected In Above
town, iltoated corner of Gill and Church Street*.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURBS ALL PAIN
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA. HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS. &c.
and taken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
internal aches and pains.
PRICE, 2s. ... SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. E. MOULTON, Sole Pbopbietob,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
r.UST PUBLISHED.
"THE BULLETIN’S"
History of Botany Bay,’
Bt Abthub Gatll. {
m PBOFVSBI.T KIIVBTBATED
BT
The- Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price • ONE SHILLING.
Pei Post, Is. Bd. (except Queensland).
AM AGENTS.
Claren.ca.oanL xaZotei,
THE BRIGHTON OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banguets. Suppers, private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice ini the Lrrge Dixiing Hall. Besides having a most rectyerchl
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good <Hnes-*-in fact, everything thab can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
lie Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by. Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and.her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs, KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
r ' * * • * • Opposite OCEAN • BEACH, MANLY.
The Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
Organised in the Year 1843.
PURELY MUTUAL! NO STOCKHOLDERS!
The Largest, Most Liberal, and Most Popular Company in the World.
mutual life insurance company OF NEW YORK.
EQUITABLE OF UNITED STATES
SCOTTISH WIDOWS’ FUND.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVT.
/A.
Insure
Comparative Value of i
jAssets of the Leading Life
Insurance Companies'of
thellVorld
STANDARD.
SCOTTISH PROVIDENT.
SCALE :
A INCH • £500.00*
o
c
&
G
G
V
G^<#
G
—IS THE
Largest.
Strongest,
and Best
INSURANCE COMPANY IN THE WORLft
Cash Assets, 31st December, 1887*.
£24,751,427 : 9 : 6.
WHEN SOLICITED TO INSURE, REMEMBER
'( : )
THE MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
OE NEW YORK
Is entitled to your first consideration, as it EXCEEDS all other Companies, in:—
140,943 Policies
£24,751,437 9 6
4,815,87* 17 •
53,698,705 18 1®
He largest Number Insured _
The Largest Amount of Assets .. .. » H
The Largest Annual Income (all Oash) .„ .. _ _
The Largest Payments to Policyholders (since organization) _ ..
AND
By reason of the LARGEST BONUS PAYMENTS to POLICY-HOLDERS it is the BEST
CHEAPEST COMPANY in which to Insure.
Those who desire SAFE Life Insurance, or any information in regard to the plans of the Compa®**
will be furnished with pamphlets showing the cost and advantages of each plan of insnrance
by the Company upon application to
Z. C. Rennie - General Manager for Australia,
No. 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THOMAS LOCKWOOD, J.P. Manager, for New South Waxes,
No. 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREET EAST.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up and Accrued Capital
Deposits Reoeived
Advances Made
Total Income _
Year ending
Oat., 1885.
£180,425
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Year ending
Oot., 1886.
£350,000
120,000 ,
261,500
247,840 .
451,085
Year ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125 .
206,685 .
391,356 .
307,828 .
797,990
Year ending
Oct., 1888.
. £580,000
251,015
1,123,949
025,826
. 2,048,951
Deposits received at following Ratesl2 months, 7 per cent.; 6 months, 6 per
cent.; 3 months, 5 per cent. Special Terms for longer periods.
SAVINGS’ BANK BRANCH.
To Persons who desire to put by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
who wish to Recure INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
EVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANK,
this BRANCH offers the very best opportunity. Depositors in this branch
receive FIVE per cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AVFLE FUSES for Borrowers. TEEMS LIBERAL,
m
«L
I
mm
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
54 COLLINS STREEt EAST*
£25 Contributing Shares
£<AN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Payment of la. V 0
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these Shares are I*
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Compound Interest
amount to £25, when that sum is paid over to their holders in Cad*'
The holders of t ne First Issue of these Shares received in Octoh®*’
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Contributed ow
£l4 65., at the rata of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years.
Hon. JOHN NIM 10, M.P., J.P.,
WILLIAM OOUEKTT
_ Chairman*
Acting-Secretary*
Sr-,
II
'll'-I!
Vrfjj it '§. i%: pw6l?Ete||| II | l!~f 1- r
;ri
THE
Federal Coffee Palace
CORNER OF
.... i ;r. > i ■ < A ’ : n,j
3 Streets, lv£el'bo _ u.rrre,
Containing 560 ROOMS, is now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitors.
PRIVATE SUITES of ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished.
SPECIAL DINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisine and T^l 0
Appointments Unequalled in the City.
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL » GROUND FLOOR.
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Chif, assisted by a civil and obliging staff.
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION ROOM 8 *
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE. TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY REPLIED TO.
George Cohen - - - - Manag®’’*
Collin.


CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
THE BULLETIN
Vol. 9 —No 462.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1888.
"" " " ll' —HI II ■HIM II I II - -- Z
Price, Bd.
Young Australia and His Bubbles.
COULDN’T HE BE BETTER EMPLOYED?


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ■■■ £lO 0
Half-yearly ® 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 00 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to ,1. E.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the.
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 8000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
'■ The Bulletin ” wilf return all unavailable-MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending .MSS. to distinctly understand that,
■we. are not. responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony- you
can ha ve Tile Bulletin posted regularly to yon every week
for a year. ,
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tiie Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
■in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to. interfere.
.ZSi il
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22 1888.
Highwaymen, Barglars, and Plekpockets.
It Is not so many years since the professional
gentlemen whose designations head this
article were among the chief terrors and
scourges of society. The first class is now
practically extinct. Under the style and
title of bushrangers they lingered in the Aus-
tralian colonies about a generation after their
Earopean predecessors had been obliterated.
Burglars still appear in Intermittent and
feeble survivals. Pickpockels are nob ex-
tinct, but the lurid lustre of the past no
longer illuminates them. Their mystery is
no more a fine art. Compared with the Old
Masters they are botchers. The academic
institutions where tyros practised the initia-
tory touches exist not. The modern pick-
pockeb is a mere amateur, his best effort the
result of casual opportunity and transient
inspiration. The decadence of these three
prefer slons, rendered venerable by an-
tiquity, has been rapid and obvious. Ib is not
our purpose to moralise intimately on the
superficial reasons to which this decadence
is attributable. It will suffice t> mention
ihe alteration in the habits of the people
with respeeb to currency. No one, no class,
now habitually carries or keeps much coin or
convertible paper. Bail up a millionaire, or
pick his pocket, and in lieu of a purse of
gold, the provision for a week’s personal
all the plunder will be a half-
dozen sovereigns and less than twenty shil-
lings’ worth cf silver, besides a watch.
Brehk into the house of a miser and rum-
mage his strong boxes and wainscots, the
result will be blank. Smash into the house
of the ostentatiously rich, a few hundreds’
worth of plate, often the spurious product
of the plating-battery, will be the spoil;
and there is no established smelting-pot in
constant operation to receive lb, as in days
of yore. The game is not worth the candle.
The gifted among crooks have recognised
the changed conditions. No rogue of talent
now betakes himself to the roads, to the
burgling business, or to the picking of
pockets.
But rogues are not extinct. The teeth of
the criminal are not drawn. Robbery has
merely charged its character to suit the
altered times. From a physical occupation
plundering has been metamorphosed into an
intellectual pursuit. The pickpocket has
developed into the “ confidence-man ” or
“ bunko steerer. ” The burglar has ceased
to break Into banks ; he runs a bank him-
self. The highwayman has learned how
crude a system was that which involved the
risk of rope or bullet. He no longer defies
the law. He makes It one of his weapons
whenever he can and only violates It when
extremely pressed or tempted. Men of
predatory instincts and resolute courage
make their cov.ps on 'Change, and take their
chance of prosecutions for false pretences,
forgeries, and fraudulent Insolvencies. The
language of the heaths and the king’s high-
ways has descended to the bold adventurer
of the syndicate and time bargain order.
Like the dashing knights of Ihe road, these
strong-nerved adventurers of the financial
world proclaim that they will greatly dare, even
though they terribly fail. “ Either a man or
a mouse,” the old motto of the highwayman,
is the motto to-day of the speculator. The
end justifies the means now as erstwhile.
Claude Duval, successful, enters Parlia-
ment and makes his master-stroke in collu-
sion with a syndicate operating outside. He
has for colleague in the Legislature the Hon.
Jonathan Wild, who is equally ready to
foil his schemes and hand him over to jus-
tice, or to participate and share the plunder,
according as either course appears to suit his
particular interest. Mr. Fagin runs a
usury-shop which an uu-squeamish society
allows him to term a “ bank ” and plunders
people with infinitely greater success and on
a much more considerable scale than of old.
Bill Sikes keeps a racing-stable and runs to
win—when It suits him. He Is not such a fool
as to murder Nancy. He passes a succession
of Nancys through his little suburban villa,
and when they bore him he Blmply turns
them adrift to float about the streets and be
stranded at the Magdalen Asylum or the
LyiDg-in Hospital.
* * *
The wits of the criminal class are too
quick for the laws. The rogues and plun-
derers invent new dodges every day, and
panting legislation tolls after them In vain.
They elude even the penalties of an adverse
public opinion. In Blackmore’s romance,
“ Lorna Doone," the corruption of social
ideas during the period of the later years
of James 11., is felicitously illustrated.
The imaginary narrator is represented
as referring with a sort of reluctant
pride to his brother-in-law, a notorious high-
wayman, whose daring exploits have ren-
dered him a person of much consideration In
the country-side. So, at the present time,
the general deference conceded to the suc-
cessful rogue induces persons connected with
him rather to vaunt their liaison than to de-
precate the practices which have earned for
him notoriety. Our forefathers could
scarcely bring themselves to regard with un-
qualified harshness a knight of the road who
occasionally Bhared with the distressed the
contents of a ravished purse. Similarly, the
modern citizen refers with a certaia bated
censure only to a notoriously sharp dealer who
subscribes freely to public charities, keeps
open house, or improves the breed of race-
horses. A few months ago one of the
Supreme Court judges in New South Wales,
in giving judgment respecting a commercial
transaction brought by civil process before
his court, severely animadverted on the
proceedings of one of the parties —a leading
commercial firm—and expressed a hope that
not many business men in the community
were capable of similar chicanery. Yet the
persons so scarified suffered no scathe. They
hold their heads as high on ’Change and in
the streets as though their reputation had
been subjected to no taint. No man dealt
the less with them, or bated one jot of the
deference conceded to their wealth and in-
fluence. An attorney cast out of the pro-
fession for malpractices may be daily seen In
familiar and unembarrassed communion with
citizens of leading station in political and
commercial affairs. Even the deadly sin of
“ being found out ” exposes the sinner to no
social penalty, provided he manages to
wriggle clear of actual imprisonment or irre-
parable financial collapse.
* * *
In lieu of bands of robbers we have
syndicates. Gangs of thieves have for sub-
stitutes companies of rich men “incorporated
by Act of Council.” The footpad has for
successor the “ general agent ” or broker of
the street corner, ever on the alert to “do
yeur business for you.” Your pocket is
more neatly picked by the Ingenious gentle-
man who volunteers to “ put you on to a
good thing,” than by the byegone party
who snipped your watchchaln or whisked
your pocket-book out of its receptacle. The
great heroes of the road find latter day rivals
with nerve as steady in the great financial
operators who create a banking credit of
thousands with forged securities or the mis-
appropriated deeds of clients, and trust to
luck to make a profit with the proceeds of
their secret felony, and so be able to with-
draw the damning proofs before maturity or
presentation shall expose the fraud. Now
and again all shifts fail and the hand of
justice clutches the collar of the rogue. Then
he suffers amidst the mixed murmur of the
multitude in which the sound of the com-
miseration of sympathetic spirits mingles
with and often seems to prevail over the
maledictions of the uncompromised. But
often the baulked villain compromises his
felony, and by a partial surrender of his
plunder, or an equivelant from his other
resources, or the hoards of his associates or
friends, is never brought to open shame at all.
Yet even shame has lost its cutting edge.
Ib is not regarded shameful to commit acts
disgraceful in their essence, provided they
be of general commission and done in good
company. It is not shameful for a barrister
to take a bribe to Bave any scoundrel frohi
the consequences of his crimes, although
perfectly convinced of the guilt of his client;
(now, we may in parenthesis remark, is it
shameful for a barrister to steal his client’s
money by pocketing a fee given for work
which he knows he can never perform.)
A bribe in such instances Is softened by a
convenient euphemism, and termed a fee.
Were a journalist to accept money for the
same purpcsa it would be accounted a scan-
dalous proceeding, although the function of
a journalist is closdy analogous to that of a
pleader. It is not regarded as disgraceful
to plunder the public by forestalling them
on the strength of information procured by
the advantage of a representative station in
the purchase of properties shortly to be en-
hanced in value by expenditure of public
moneys. It is disgraceful in theory indeed,
but the practice involves no loss of social
consideration. A dozen men in Parliament
now or lately can be indicated who are
known to have risen from poverty to in-
dependence or affluence by this form of rob-
bing. And only one or two has suffered
perceptibly In public estimation in con-
sequence, while even of these there are
individuals upon whom their tacit co-opera-
tion turns the fountain of public honours. A
few years ago a barefaced undertaking to
despoil and demoralise the investing com-
munity by inaugurating a stupendous lottery
for land, in shares or chances which aggre-
gated immensely in excess of the real value
to be distributed, was projected, and with
difficulty foiled by the declamations and de-
nunciations of this journal. The promoters
of this shameless job lost no perceptible iota
of social or commercial status thereby.
* * *
Rapacity is no less rampant to-day than it
was a generation ago. Plundering is no less
the regular occupation of the “ hard cases ”
of the world. The robber of to-day is as
active as his prototype of the Eighteenth
Century, and infinitely more successful and
more dangerous. A keen wit is a sharper
weapon than a sword. A clever combination
of schemers is more effective than a twilight
ambush of thieves. There is more to be
won by forestalling a wharf-purchase, work-
ing a compensation-for-resumption plot, or
nobbling a tramway than by waylaying a
farmer after market or “ sticking up ” a gold-
escort, and there Is not a fraction of the
danger. The attention of the public re-
quires arousing to the existence of the pre-
datory exploits which proceed every day,
and directing to the changed form which
these have latterly assumed. While people,
nose in air, gape for crimes of violent appro-
priation, and perceiving none, imagine that
the age of plundering is past, they are being
robbed on a vaster scale than ever and with
infinitely more adroitness. Once attention
becomes concentrated in the proper direc-
tion the remedy will begin to mature. The
laws, so severe In their antiquated and com-
paratively unused provision for the preven-
tion and punishment of styles of crimes
almost extinct, will be remodelled to cope
with the modern developments of the pre-
datory classes. Swindlers of all varieties
will engage more attention. Their habits,
arts, and devices will be considered and
classified. Provision will be made for track-
ing them through all their tortuous windings,
and for adapting to every form of modern
plundering its appropriate punishment.
Society could well afford to wipe out of
the statute-books all enactments against
highwaymen, burglars, and larcenists of
chattels were there but substituted a search-
ing and comprehensive code dealing with
crimes of ingenious fraud. It would be an
enormous gainer were the latter code but
effectual, in respect of property saved to its
honest possessors. For every pound which
is taken as plunder at the present time by
the first-named class of crimes, there are
thousands filched by the latter method of
spoliation. The example of half-a-dozen
silk - hatted white - waiscoated offenders,
plucked their mansions, stripped
of their ill-gotten gains, and sentenced
to the life of felons, would act as a
tremendous deterrent, and the citizen of
to-day might hope ere long to be able to
pass his life Id some sort of relief from the
sense of danger and insecurity which com-
pels him to regard every transaction as a
possible prelude to his finding himself law-
fully tricked, plundered, and ruined with-
out hope of remedy or restitution.
Lonlsa Collins.
After two hours’ deliberation a jury, on Satur-
day, the Bth inst., found Mrs. Louisa Collins
guilty of having poisoned her second husband at
Botany, Sydney, in July last. Properly speak-
ing, that jury had nothing to do with the allega-
tion that she was also guilty of having murdered
her first husband, Andrews, six months earlier.
The theory of the Crown appeared to be, however,
that there was a double murder or none, and thus
the incidents of both charges were brought
together. The Chief Justice, Sir Frederick
Darley, in addressing the jury on this last occa-
sion, said that “ if Collins’ case were taken by
itself there might be some difficulty in deciding
whether his death was or was not the result of ac-
cident, but, taken together with Andrews’ case,
that probability was reduced very considerably. ”
The jury were, therefore, called upon to form
their verdict in regard to Collins’ death, partly
on an opinion come to in respect to Andrews’
death. But a jury had previously disagreed as to
the cause of death in Andrews’ case. They had
not agreed that Andrews was poisoned at all.
Nor is it clear that if this jury had to determine
whether Andrews was or was not poisoned they
would have agreed either. It was impossible,
perhaps, to keep the two cases in all respects dis-
tinct, and there was a certain amount of legiti-
mate, subtle cogency in the line of argument the
Crown pursued, but to the understanding of an
ordinary jury it was liable to mean that the pro-
bability of the accused woman having poisoned
her husband Andrews made it very probable that
she also poisoned her husband Collins.
ft *
This is dangerously close to what reasoners know
as the vicious circle. To many juries it would be
the circle. It is right to advert to this, in view of
the apparent facility with which this last jury
came to a conclusion. Three juries had already
tried her, and after sitting all through the night
had to be discharged without a verdict. Two
juries had already tried her cn the particular
charge of poisoning Collins, and without agree-
ing. Mr, J ustice Foster, in discharging the jury
at the first of the Collins’ trials, said that the
case “ was one on which reasonable men might
conscientiously disagree.” Chief Justice Dablet,
in passing sentence at the close of the third of the
Collins’ trials, addressed to the prisoner the
words, “If you are guilty, as I fear you are.”
Yet this last jury settled in two hours the question
which had defied the protracted deliberation of
two preceding juries, which one judge declared
pregnant with perplexities to reason and con-
science, and another obviously associated in his
mind, even when the conclusion was arrived at,
with some degree of “f»ar”asto the correctness
of the decision. There was no new evidence,
there were no new facts. The question and its
surroundings were precisely the same as they were
at any time since the Court took them up for con-
sideration. The speedy unanimity of this last
jury does not, then, conduce in the circumstances
to increase the value of the verdict. On the con-
trary, it suggests a doubt as to whether the jury
were wholly free from the influence of the vicious
reasoning referred to above.
* * •
The determination of the Attorney General to
put the woman three times on her trial for the
murder of Collins was, we think, though ad-
versely criticised in some quarters, the proper one
in the circumstances. The custom of tryiDg three
times is old and general and, in the main, bene-
ficial to the accused. There is, it is true, no
absolute virtue in the number Three, but some
limit had to be recognised, and as in so many
other concerns of life, the fascination of the odd
number appears to have prevailed. If three juries
fail to convict, the public opinion is that the
accused person merits his or her freedom. It was
Mrs. Collins’ inherent right, then, that she
should be placed on her trial eo often that, when
released, public opinion would regard the release
as merited. Having once accused her, the
Attorney-General was not at liberty to deprive
her of this right. The position loses none of its
strength because Mrs. Collins has been convicted
by the third of the Collins’ trials. Its strength
would not be affected if it were shown that an
innocent person were in such circumstances con-
victed. The right would still be the property of
accused persons, and it would remain the duty of
the Attorney-General to recognise it the more
readily the less likelihood there was of a convic-
tion. But if the Attorney-General, or the Crown,
acted properly in putting a woman a third time on
her trial for this particular crime, as much cannot
be said for the view taken of the legal assistance
to which she was entitled. The charges against
her were as complicated as important. Seldom in
the criminal history of New South Wales has a
case occurred demanding such high and finished
qualities in the advocate defending. The argu-
ments of the prosecution were, as has been indi-
cated, intricate, involved, and as logical perform-
ances, apparently vitiated by a subtle inference
of guilt from a disputed assumption of guilt. The
defence, in the hands of the best leader of the Bar
New South Wales ever had, would have been a
work to tax to their ultimate limits the acumeD,
the resources, the experience, and the intellectual
strength of the advocate. Yet, in these circum-
stances of stress and necessity for a defence of ac
knowledged power, the Crown appointed to the
defence only a junior barrister. It is with no
disposition to blame counsel that we paint to this.
The defence in many respects showed honesty, in-
dustry, and a large measure of ability, but where
the life of an accused person is at stake it is, we
contend, the duty of the Crown to supply the de-
fendant with the best legal talent at its disposal.
* * •
The facts so far established are, then, that Mrs.
Collins having been tried once abortively for
the poisoning of Andrews, and twice abor-
tively for the poisoning of Collins, was,
when convicted on the third trial, found
guilty after a deliberation so short as to
excite surprise, and was not furnished with the
most skilled advocacy. And we contend that
there was greater skill required in each new trial,
for witnesses, hesitating in their statements at the
first trial, were letter-perfect at the fourth. These
facts should stand prominently between the
woman and the gallows. We do not say that they
prove her innocent. They are quite compatible
with the theory which holds her guilty. But
what we do say is that they are also compatible
with a theory of innocence. Our own opinion is
that the woman is guilty. But that is only
opinion—the opinion of one or of two or of several.
It has not been arrived at in the manner which
invests it with legal certainty. To justify us in
setting her down formally as guilty, opinion must
have passed into the form of legal certainty. But
there can be no legal certainty if the jury have
been victims to fallacious argument; there can be
no legal certainty if the defence has been inade-
quate. Thus, though there be legal certainty to
justify a sentence of guilty, there must be the
highest moral certainty present before the sentence
can be executed. Seeing that three juries have
disagreed on her case and only the fourth has
found her guilty this highest degree of moral
certainty is at once wanting. Taking the murder
of Collins, 24 men deliberated long and anxiously
and gave the charge up. Afterwards 12 men
appear and, in a couple of hours, without any new
light shining on the subject, pronounce the woman
guilty. Is tot conclusive ? What would happen
if she were Med once more ? Does this suddenly-
arrived-at verdict destroy all doubts for ever?
Human reason refuses to be caught in this techni-
cal trap. Whatever individual opinions may be,
this absence of legal certainty and of the highest
moral certainty lie like an impassable gulf
between Louisa Collins and the execution of the
Law.
* * •
But even though the strongest legal certainty
and the highest moral certainty were present we
would still object to the woman being hanged.
Men should never voluntarily put it out of their
power to unsay a thing said, to undo a thing done.
He has lived to small purpose who has not dis-
covered that the certainties of his past are, many
of them, the doubts of his present, and who does
not know that many things which are to him
certain to-day will be uncertain a few years hence !
It is a mixture of conceit and ignorance which
makes a man take his present day as his era of
orthodoxy. Like past eras, the present one is
crowded with erroneous opinions and false judg-
ments. It is the duty of a man to stand, when-
ever he can, above his speech and actions so
that when the brighter reason comes he shall
be able to put the good in place of the
bad. This he cannot do if he cast speech
and action beyond the limits of human
control. He so casts them when on a judgment of
to-day he sends a person to death. He puts it out


of his power to undo the past or make the slightest
amends, in the event of discovering error. It is
another mixture of conceit and ignorance which
assures the person that in respect to any case free-
dom from error is secured. Within the last couple
of weeks a cable from England has announced
that two men, Brannaghan and Murphy, have,
after ten years’ hard labour in gaol, been found
innocent of the crime of which they were con-
victed These men were tried before a British
jury and by British law, and with all the respect
for the interests of the accused which the tradi-
tions of the English Bench make it incumbent on
the judge to show. It is likely enough that the
alleged crime would have been a capital one in
New South Wales. Had these men been tried in
Sydney, would the law have been better, would
the jury have been better, would the judge have
been better ? Hence the men would have been
hanged, and the tardy justice which has found
them to-day they never would have known. What
is the use of talking of legal certainty and the
highest moral certainty with current facts like
these before us ?
And other principles drive the gallows further
away. What good will it do the community, sup-
posing that not even a shadow of doubt exists in
her favour, to tie the guilty Louisa Collins by
the ankles and hang her up by the neck ? We
have prisons into which she can be put She is
not an evil exhalation which can arise in the night
and defy prison-walls and prison roofs. To do
again the evil for which she has been convicted
she wants freedom, she wants a confiding lover,
she wants arssnic, she wants milk. The prison
doors are strong enough to keep her from each and
all of these. The knowledge that she is strangled
will be a lees impressive lesson to others in whom
her spirit stirs than will be the knowledge that to
all the glad uses of life her eyes are closed, that of
all its fruits of ripe enjoyment her hands will,
though they work till her hair be white, continue
to be empty. Fear of b3ing killed is not the
ruling passion of such persons a 3 Louisa Collins.
When Georgelll, granted pardon to 23 femalecon-
victs in Nevgate on condition that they would
go to New South Wales, six of the lot preferred
death to leaving England. Death, if it strike
quickly, is not an appalling terror. Its approach
calls up the vital powers. For an instant it is
New South Wales against Louisa Collins. The
police, the hangman, the gyves, the rope prevail,
and the contest is over. Imprisonment rouses to
no such height of bad heroism. Day sucoeeds
day, year succeeds year, and in work and tears,
the culprit keeps the straight path to the grave.
As a deterrent to others, which is the more
efficacious ?
ft
The execution of Louisa Collins will, then, be
naught but a stain on society. It will not
rause one crime the less to be committed. Its
influence may increase crime. When Leopold of
Tuscany ascended the throne the Tuscans were,
as history shows, the most abandoned people of
Italy. The gallows, wheels, and tortures were in
constant use, but robbsries and murders were
unabated. Leopold adopted the principles of
Beccarta, and abolished torture and the gallows,
and it is recorded that immediately, from having
been the land of the greatest crimes and villainies,
Tuscany became the best-ordered State of Europe.
As Beooaria once argued, if but one country in
the world discontinued capital punishment, and
did not find murders increasing in consequence,
every other country is obliged to try the effect of
discontinuing the punishment. That argument is
unassailable. Even though nation after nation
returned to capital punishment, the obligation
would still stand. But many nations have
abolished capital punishment and have not re-
turned to it, and are witneises that murders have
not increased within their confines.
• *
In 1880, the countries that had discontinued or
abandoned capitial punishment were (according
to James Anson Fabrkr) Tuscany, Holland,
Portugal, Russia, Roumania, Saxony, Prussia,
Belgium, and ten of the United States of America,
Some of these countries still employ capital
punishment’in political cases—the condemm din
such instances being treated as enemies of the
body corporate and not merely of the individual—
but for the general security of life they do without
it. Since 1.880 there have been a few changes,
three or four of the American States having gone
back to capital punishment, and Ualy, a few
months ago, taking her place with Belgium and
the other abolitionists, but substantially the world
is to day as it was eight years ago. With these
facts before us is there not a demand that the
gallows should be put to rest in Australia ? Are
we not bound, on the mere ground of experiment,
to give the system a trial ? Tne Execut’ve
Council, we know, plead that they musb obey the
law, but, apart from the exercise of the preroga-
tive of mercy, there are occasions when high public
service requires the letter of the law to be set
aside. Toil is one of them. The public want bo
be saved from the debating and degrading spectacle
of a pinioned woman swinging in the air. They
want the rising generation to regard their sisters
and mothers with a reverence and homage which
will be blasted out of their minds by the legal
show of a woman hanging among the representa-
tives of law with a rope about her nick It is
more the business of the Executive to discharge
this high public duty than it is to follow out the
letter of the law which, if put bo the vote in Par-
liament to-morrow, would, at all events on bhia
ocnation, be abrogated. The female poisoners of
Maitland were sent to prison on the ground that
one jury had disagreed concerning them. Let the
prison rtceive Louisa Collins also.
How Long!
The Pall Mall Gazette speaks regarding the
small vanities of British royalty:—
How much loDger will it all la s t, we wonder? The
splendour and the pomp of the great pageant, and all the
gorgeous glories with whioh the ceremonial was em-
broidered by the deft stage-managing Chamberlains, these
were oonspicuous enough, no doubr. I-visit 1 >, but hardly
less palpable, were the traditions, the associations, the
memories, whioh linked the central figure on the throne
with our ancient kings. The institution is old, no doubt,
stately, and ornamental beyond question—but will it last i
As long as the Queen lasts, yes; but after the Queen ?
Who knows ? The fat little bald man in red, who cut so
poor a figure in yesterday’s procession, will he ever reign
over us, and for how long ? It is true that the present
moment seems a strange one to harbour such haunting
doubts, when all England but yasberday was a blaze with
exultant loyalty. But other monarchies, not less ancient
and quite as imposing in their outer framework, have
vanisned, leaving as little trace behud as the fr isted
silver with which last winter flligre d our window-panes.
Tnat also was as beautiful and lovelv in outward show as
was the monarchy in Franoe. As it has gone, so may
perish all the fair and stately splendour of our throne.
What prospect has it of stability, what chance of perman-
ence! n our shifting age ? The mail-clad warriors who long
oenturies since sat on the stone of Scone were the real
rulers of the nation. Yesterday it was impossible not to
be impressed by the contrast between the Queen, in the
oenbre of her glittering troop of princes and princesses,
and the real ruler of the Empire, Lord Salisbury, who
sa* 1 in plain black coat among the throng of peers. In
Franoe, long time ago, a dynasty which exhibited the
same contrast between the ltoi faineant and the Mayor of
the Palace passed away the moment the real ruler ven-
tured to ask who should sit on the throne, the man who
ruled the realm or the man who wore the crown. Far be
it from us to hint that our Queen plays no more important
role in the modern State than the Roi faineant, who was
thrust aside so roughly by Pehn, but most of the func-
tions of the Sovereign—all those, in short, in which real
power lies, and in recognition of whioh the ceremonial of
courts was invented—have passed from the Monarch to
his Prime Minister. So far as the pomp and state of
courtly ceremonial are truly symbolio they ought to be
employed to glorify Lord Salisbury, not to glorify the
Queen. This misplacement gave a sense of unreality to
yesterday’s proceedings—a feeling that they were a sur-
vival rather than a living growth, and that after a time
they would pass away and the world would know them no
more. For when symbolism becomes fabe to facts its
ultimate disappearance is only a question of time.
LOYALTY IN THE N.S.W. BACK BLOCKS.
LITTLE GIRL (to postmaster): “MOTHER SAYS SHE WON’T HAVE THIS STAMP
WITH THE BIRD ON IT. IF SHE CAN’T HAVE THE QUEEN’S ’EAD,
SHE WON’T ’AYE NONE.”
Kings were in their origin as utilitarian as parlia-
mentary whips. “We will have a king over us ” said
the people cf Israel, “ that our king may judge us, and
go out before us and fight our battles.” Our kings do
none of these things. The German kings discharge
these functions, and with them tbe kingehip is still a
living power, instead of being, as with us, a mere social
convenience and graceful ornament Our monaroby
bears the same relation to the institution after which it is
called as the bejewelled little bonnet of the Queen bears
to the fighting helm it William the Conqueror. It may
be very useful in its way, and very pretty to look upon,
but it is no longer a vital necessity of the national exist-
ence, the living embodiment of the force and power of the
Government of the realm. It is apart from all that—so
much apart that if all the princes and prir cesses who
assemble round the Queen had been suddenly blotted out
of existence it would not make any appreciable charge in
the balance of power in the State. A couple of dozen or
more very elegant, and many of them most gracious
supernumeraries would have ceased to exist, but neither
in politics nor in administration, nor even in the social
and moral development of our people, would there be felt
any appreciable Bhook, such as would be occasioned by
the death of Mr. Gladstone, or Lord Hartinoton, or Lord
Salisbury. Each of these three statesmen is a force and
faotor in the government of the empire. As for these
pretty princes and princesses, th*-y have their uses, no
doubt, and their graceful functions, bnt the work of
government is not for them.
With all of which we agree, excepting only that
the Gazette's admiration for the fighting kings
who once ruled England seems to us a little over-
strained. These warlike monarchs were mostly
boiler-plated to such an extent that the only
genuine danger they encountered in battle was
that of falling down and being unable to get up
again, and they made a good show until artillery
began to b 3 used—and then they died away in one
act. The ordinary cannon-ball, they discovered,
was capable of sawing a king off short as
easily as it would saw off a private soldier, and, hav-
ing a'certainedthis fact, they quitted thegory field
for good and all. Richard 111. was the last of
the genuine fighting kings of England, though
three of his successors were forced by the pres-
sure of circumstances into military positions
which they would rather not have occupied, and
ever since then the British Royal family has laid
on fat rather than warlike ardour and has become
peaceful and pre-eminent in grief. Modern kings,
in fact, do not take many needless risks. Even
the German princes do not rush to the front more
than they can help, and the Hohenzollerns have
gained most of the warlike glory by wire or
through a telescope. They look large and stern
and feri cious, thpse sons and grandsons of W.
Hohenzollern, who is now among the seraphims,
and they dpek t hemeelves in military attire and carry
s )di win h don’t get between their legs and
capsize them after the ridiculous fashion peculiar
to the British Royal House, and they talk a deal
about the martial qualities of the Fatherland—
but they don’t actually fight except among the
sauer-hraub in the baggage-waggons at the rear.
Now and then an African potentate covered with
grease dies nobly in the forefront of the battle,
but these forgotten Quashees and Samboes are
the last —the very last of the military kings of the
earth.
« —
The magistrates of St. Kilda (Melb.) have in-
flicted a sentence of six mouths’ imprisonment
and 15 strokes of the dear old “ cat ” upon an un-
fortunate member of the John Smith family.
Wnen unpaid justice drops with particular
severity upon man, woman, or child it generally
happens that the victim is inaocenb or mad—
sometimes fcobh. John Smith was not innocent
of the “ disgusting conduct ” charged against him.
He was, in short, so ridiculously guilty that no
men possessing decently-balanced minds could
arrive at any conclusion save that John Smith
was mad. By admitting a possibility r>f this
wretched creature being sane when he recklessly
outraged the modesty of every woman who came
in his way, the St. Kilda Bench libel our common
humanity. John Smith had arrived at middle
age, and had earned the good opinion of a crowd of
respectable witnesses before this uncontrollable
desire to play the disgusting fool seized hold of
him. He is a married John Smith, and though
this fact may only be another proof that marriage
is a failure, yet it should be a legal point in favour
of one guilty of such an offence. Moreover, there
was no evidence which suggested a motive for
John’s filthy behaviour. He had no motive.
John Smith was an irresponsible being at the
time “Mad” doctors know that this case is
identical with hundreds of cases, and that the
most disgusting lunatics are those who were most
circumspect of conduct ere they lost their reason.
But because the St Kilda Bench is composed of
ponderous pillars of dull respectability, privileged
to adjudicate on matters they couldn’t understand
if they tried to—therefore the lunatic John
Smith must be flayed at the triangles on the 15oh
of March next.
+
It is about time that somebody knocked a
hol9 in our popular fiction touching the pheno-
menal precocity of Australian children. We have
got into a way of regarding the tricks and manners
of our rising generation from an English stand-
point, without remembering that the middle-class
child of, say, London is reared under tighter con-
ditions than prevail in Sydney or Melbourne.
Our native-born Bobbies and Tommies and
Cissies enjoy opportunities for licking up
“precocity,” allowed only to children of distinctly
lower grades in the old country. Our servant-girl
difficulty—which should be, by the way, a matter
for congratulation rather than vulgar regret-
throws children into the company of adults, and
thus places them on a footing with English chil-
dren of poorer parentage. Hence this “ pre-
cocity ” theory, built up on false premises.
If anyone thinks that Australian boys and
girls are naturally more “forward” than
foreign pledges of human affection, let him
compare our gutter-snipes with those of London
or Paris. They beat us for ’cubeness and wicked-
ness Competition and want makes them keener
after halfpence, in which respect the Sydney
newsboy is a fool to his London prototype. They
mature earlier, notwithstanding our pet delusion
to the contrary. G. R Sims wrote on this very
subject not so long ago, pointing out that, whereas
many waifs and strays of the slums had scarcely
any double-teeth at ten years of age, the girls
often became mothers at twelve. If, then, the
lowest class children in England are admitted to
be a little more precocious than any raised in this
country, how comes it that positions are found to
be reversed between their respective “betters”?
If an explanation is to be found neither in the
blood nor the climate, it is time that Australians
ceased to “blow ” about a fact which parents may
study at their leisure.
Daar Bulletin, —In a racenb issue you say
that Bazaine was “ passionately attached to his
lovely (first) wife, and had blind confidence in her
virtue.” On the strength of an article in the
Universal Review, which states that the Mar*
shal married her frm ‘ beneath a lamp post and
that she never sought in her behaviour to hide her
past life,” I think you must have confused the two
ladies. His second wife, a very wealthy Mexican
heiress whom he espoused almost immediately
after the mytterious death of the first in the
Maison Valrny, and whose esbabes were forfeited
by the downfall of Maximilian, was the apple of
his eye, and the rival of the beauteous Eugenie as
a leader of Fashion. By the way, we are told by
cable that Boyer, who was the goer-between
Bazaine and Frederick Charles, is dead. This
individual, penniless before the war, was able to
expend an enormous sum in the purchase of landed
property when matters settled down Probably
he worked a “ do ible cross ” —assisted Bazaine
to betray France, and then coolly stuck to the .‘lO
pieces of silver. —Yours, Republican.
The latest Yankee perjury :
A major of artillery, who had oommand of a fort in the
far West, was frequent y lamenting that his right aim
oould not be mure often used against the Indians.
Finally, one day he took one of the small howitzers, which
defended the fort, and bad it seourely strapped to the
back of an army mule, with the muzzle projecting over
the animal’s tail. Wish this novel gun-carriage he pro-
ceeded in high feather with the captain and a sergeant to
a bluff on the bank of the Missouri, near which was eo-
camped a band of frieridy Indians. The gun was duly
loaded and primed, the fuse inserted, and the mule
backed to the edge of the bluff. The major remarked
something abouD the moral effect the exhibition was
likely to produce upon the Indian allies, aad stepped
gaily forward and applied the match. The curiosity
of the mule was aroused. He jerked his head around
to see what was fizzing away there on his neck, and the
next second his feet were all bunched together and
making 40 revolutions a minute, while the gun was
threatening everj thing under the canopy within a radius
of 10 miles with instant destruction. The captain shinned
up the only available tree. Toe sergeant tbrev himself
flat on the ground, and tried 10 dig a hole with his bayonet
to crawl into, while the fat major rolled over and over in
agony, alternately invoking the protection of Providence
and oursiDg the mule. Finally the explosion came, the
ball going through the roof of the fort. The recoil of the
gun and the wild leap of the terrified mule carried both
over the bluff to a safe anchorage at the bottom Of the
river. Toe dis jomflttd paroy returned sadly to the fort.
Shortly after the chief of tee Indians appeared, and an-
nounced briefly: “Injun go home.” Questioned as to
why, he thus explained Injun ver’ brave, help white
man. lojun use gun, use dov arrow, use knife; but
when white man fire off whole jackass, Injun no under-
stand’, no think rigbt. Injun no help um tight that way.’’
Christmas Box. Buy Perth land, good spec.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Company,
9(i Bathurst-stree\ Sydney.
A Melbourne horse-thief, aged 11 years,
has been sent to the Reformatory. For the same
little indiscretion happy English boys were hanged
not so very long ago.
Pamphlet, with statistics of Western Aus-
tralia, post free, from the Intercolonial In-
vestment Company, Limited, Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
Alluding to the surrender of Metz by
Bazaine, Emily Crawfurd quo’es the saying of
Talleyrand than “a Frenchman with a large family
is capable of anything.”
Tha Chinese paterfamilias makes an
annual arrangement with his medical man by
virtue of which he guarantees him a fixed sum
each year, the payment of which ceases, however,
the very day that any member of the household
falls sick. A Japanese ordinance provides that
every time a doctor loses a patient by death he
shall hang a red lantern oyer his door for a fixed
period. We commend this matter to the Corpora-
tions of Sydney and Melbourne as a cheap method
of lighting Macquarie and Collins streets.
Dear Bulletin, This is the season when
fairy tales are told for the purpose of seducing
the cheque man to “ shout.” I have just been inter
viewed by the Munchausen of the Murrumbidgee.
He is the oldest stockman on the river, was here
before the blacks; remembers Blue-rap and his
mob, was the traveller who whistled for Morgan
when Bobby Rand danced ; he made £lOO,OOO on
Ballarat, was wrecked in the Royal Charter,
London, and Dunbar. He is certain that the
Claimant is the man, for he was mates with him
five or five-and-twenty years. I believe he knows
the whereabouts of Nana Sahib, and the real
Dauphin, or somebody. He has no tobacco, and
want 3 his nose-bags filled. He 13 off, thank God .
But, “Hello, what’s your name?’ Fancy the
effootery of the ! he co< Uy turned round and
said, “Alfred Blank.” Then I knew he was a
liar. For why? There cannot be two A.B.s.—
Scotty W.
“My Tailor,” 164 King-street, Newtown, Don’t forget
him Suite to measure for £8 8s
“ If you are a man of business, weakened by the strain
of your duties, avoid stimulants and take Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters."
Send for Plans, Perth City and Suburban Allot-
ments The Intercolonial Investment Com-
pany, 96 Bathurst-street, Sidney.
A Bleak Prospect.
TO PREMIER M'ILWARITH
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well done, Sir Tam, you are no fool,
Though you wear Britain’s titles ;
You’ve “got your knife on ” foisted rule,
And stabbed it in the vitals ;
Somehow you’ve shown the people’s grit
Stands on a better basis —
That Blake would find a sad misfit
In Kitts’s trotter-cases.
Too long Australia’s mimic thrones
Have been the gilt recesses
I' or blunted tools or titled drones
Who made official messes ;
So let them find their parvenu
A more congenial quarter :
There’s crowbar-work “at home” to do,
To grind, evict, and slaughter.
Too long have Austral’s social heights
Been sat upon by fellows
In gingerbread and Windsor tights
Like wooden Punchinellos —
Who fatten while the people pay
Like many royal puppets,
And sip “colonial ” curds and whey
Like storied Missy Muffets.
Well done, Sir Tam ! you are, in faith,
Our own official lictor,
You are a most uncanny wraith
To Knufsford’s pet evictor.
Keep on your way, be not afraid,
Small matter how you rile ’em,
For sturdy Queensland won’t be made
An imbecile-asylum.
Banana-land’s too hot a place
For Tory tidal-waiters,
A creature’s creature would disgrace
The Land of Alligators.
Let Knotty keep his puppet “ beak ”
To dodge the agent-a talker,
For young Australia’s wide awake
And gives him “hookey Walker.”
GAM[?]NO.
Launceston, Tas , Nov 19, 1888.
Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house),
Directors t
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esq., Chairman.
E. 0. V. BROUGHTON, Esq. ; T. JONES, Esq,
This Bank undertakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual banking
business.
Interest on Deposits :
12 months 7 per cent.
t. ». Rlalitirdi** - - ■kb«(lii( Btr«et«r


Dear Bulletin, —The following yarn comes
from an ancient " Whaler ” :—Old B—, one of
the biggest squatters on the Murray, never re-
fuses work or tucker to any man who asks there-
for. When a swaggie arrives and demands work
or grub, B. hands him a pannikin. “Go and
bail out the river till meal-time.” Most of the
travellers try the work for a time ; then they get
full-up and make tracks. Those who work away
till meal-time get a good, square feed, and are
ordered back to their irrigation-work, which is
fearfully monotonous and tiring. Few spend
more than half a day at the task. Those
who peg away are given a decent job and a
fair screw. “How are you getting on?’”
said B. one day to an Irishman vtrho was
wiring in. “ Well, be the powers, Oi’ll soon have
the strame so shallah that the cod’ll shurely git
sunburnt on the back.” A Yankee asked for
Work one day. “What can you do!” “Oh!
most any kind df Chores* 1 guess. ” “Well, turn
that grindstone till tea-
bime.” The Yank did so.
Next morniDg he asked,
“What will 1 do to-day,
boss ? ” “ Turn the grind-
stone.” Yank rigged up
a treadle and had a good
solid read as he worked
with one foot, and then
the other. Next morning
he asked, “What will I
do to-day, boss ?” " Turn
the grindstone.” The
man from America took
a stretcher into the yard,
rigged up a sort of hood
over the head of it;
placed it near the grind-
stone ; fixed the treadle
another way; laid him-
self down on the home-
made stretcher with his
feet over the end of it
working the treadle, and
read “Progress and
Poverty ” all day. On
the following morning he
asked the old man,
“What will I do to-
day?” "Take a few
days’ tucker and set off
to find a bigger fool than
me.” “ Tha-anks, I guess
I’ll take the grub. But
look here, boss, I can’t
find the man. S’long.”—
Oyster Johnnie.
Dear Bulletin, —
From what I saw one
evening last week I ex-
pected to read at least a
column of “ Coolamon ”
in the dailies. At present
I am in Coolamon and in
liquor. The important
event was the visit of the
Railway Commissioners
at 9 p.m., and I had
been warned by the pub-
licans that if I was a
man I’d be there to meet
them. They came in a
tall white hat, a helmet,
and a dundreary shovel.
They were shown round
the waiting-room at the
station and admired the
grate, on which two days’
labour had been spent.
Then the chief magnate
of the town advanced,
and said there was a long-
felt want (a drink, I sup-
pose) and the train moved
off with a shriek into
Cimmerian gloom. N.B.
—I am reading Carlyle’s
“ Revolution.” This de-
scription will do for all
the townships of N.S.W-
The Northern trip will
soon take place, so I
write to warn joskins
that the hat, the helmet,
and the shave are the
nobs ; and not to mistake
the reporter in grey with
a train-oil nap on his
back for Mr. Eddy.
After the Commissioners
departed, there were free
drinks at the two pubs,
on payment of fid. per
shot.—Yours, Scotty the
Wrinkler.
A rough stable has
been erected at the back
of a certain Melbourne
Congregational Church
to accommodate the
horses which are driven
or ridden to the taber-
nacle by a certain Vic-
torian M.L.A. and land-
dealer and his numerous
family connections. Their
procession of chariots and
horsemen, making a jour-
ney of something under
two miles, gladdens the
Toorak district every
Sunday morning. It is
a meek and lowly spec-
tacle. The coachmen
come softly into churoh
after the ’osses have been
fixed up in the stable of
the Loard, and when the
parson arrives at “thirdly
and lastly, dear friends,”
the>e humble worship-
pers sneak forth to get
the carriages out. There
is precious little chance
of reaching the kingdom
nowadays unless you can
drive through the Golden
Gates in your own buggies.
It la said that yet another colonial cleric la
likely to be offered an English preferment at a
good round figure annually. Tell us exactly what
it is, then tell us what he gets now, and then we’ll
guess in three tries which way the finger of Divine
Providence will direct its servant.
Thus Pastor Jefferis : — “lf you cease to
pray for rain on the grounds that its fall depends
on a number of distinct operations, acting over
lon' intervals of time, and great spaces of the
uAverse, and because God could only answer rain-
prayer by changing the order and sequence of
phenomena, then this kind of reasoning aims a
fvtial blow at any kind of prayer.” Hereupon
t-e hardy agnostic exclaims—" Hear, hear ! ”
The Imprisoned Journalists.
The Sydney Echo tells the country journalists
now lying for libel-debt in the prisons of New
South Wales that their imprisonment is, in the
circumstances, a remnant of barbarism, but that
they are not the only men of letters who have had
to go to gaol for their writings. The Echo does
not offer to put its shoulder to the wheel to have
the remnant of barbarism swept away It does
not offer to alleviate the condition of the victims
by sueing to have their term of bondage shortened.
It simply stands by and tells them that others
before them suffered in a similar way. This we
call the. essence of phlegmatic unconcern. It is
aii admission that in the Echo’s case the journalis-
tic spirit and instinct have died through fatty
degeneration or have bsen prostituted to a
complacent selfishness. If there be men in
gaol through the survival of an admitted
barbarism, there is a duty at the door of every
man who pretends to exercise any influence
on the mind of his time. When Montaigne
I /! ism a,>l / ; Ltt f '.
*1 rfi *f a ? *f
fiiLs/yess-
ftfaj//' s?/ 7
/
“ X.
fatr'-Ofd
/y fa dreary
Bk
tyapoy fa/pex
fu/d/y
* Ojbzy&tSy' s
TncsTu i/cccle.
k '
' 7 *
! v / 7
/// fte/erccC S /'///fay aye/
as /fa s 7fte Jyz/ /P/saft/y
f/s-sfr /a./ fay/- ftr-/?g fae /o//ft yo
S //7/t'p //>- <2 faypg ///?* &
THE BUTTON-HOLER.
pointed to a victim writhing on the rack, and
called on the public conscience to awake and free
the man, the people from whom the Echo draws
its blood stood stolidly as the Echo now stands,
and, admitting the barbarism, observed compla-
cently that other victims bore the like. When
Spee asked the woman accused of witchcraft to be
saved from the flames there were Echo people in
the crowd who thought the custom barbarous, but
assured the terror-stricken victim that it was com-
forting to reflect that many had been burned
before her. These people are worse clogs in the
wheels of progress than the direct advocates of re-
trogression. A man who assumes the office of ad-
dressing the public may not see that a law
operates barbarously, and is therefore silent on
grounds of conscience, but a man who sees the
oppressive operation and the oppressed victims
and puts the subject aside as the Echo does de-
grades his manhood and prostitutes his office.
An advertisement In Melbourne Herald
reads: —“Is there a Material Hell? See the
grand reality.” Numerous local celebrities are
suspected of an intention to accept the kind
invitation.
The Protestant clergy of Sale (Vic.) had
petitioned the local Municipal Council to set apart
a day of humiliation and prayer for rain, but
Providence got in ahead of the petitioners and
the rain came before the aldermen could consider
the petition. When the Council did meet, one
alderman moved —“ That this Council is thankful
to Almighty God for the refreshing showers
we have had, and thus secured the end
the petitioners had in view.” But this pious
motion failed to find a seconder, and the sense of
the majority was that the petitioners be informed
that rain-making was outside of the scope of a
local governing body not being provided under the
Municipal Corporations Act, and as M'Elhone has
let up on Poole, aldermen have to mind what they
are a-doin’ of in their representative capacity.
Primate Barry resigns and leaves Austra-
lia for England owing to the continued illness of
Mrs. Barry. It is quite time that Australia grew
her own bishops.
Chrißtmas Box. Buy Perth land, good spec.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Company,
96 Bathnrst-street, Sydney.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Show-whits
PATSWT Rot.i.sb Pl.on». !» Is i-ionon of *h.
w»,
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—" Shadows of a Great
City” ... p . 14.
Her Majesty’s.—" Wanda”
Criterion.—" The Private Secretary ” ~
Haymaeket Music Hall —Harry Rickards „
New Opera House ...Minstrelsy....
Elite Skating RiNk.— World Circu5........ „
The bill thia week at Sydney Royal la of a
double-barrelled description, and ranges from
“Kerry” to the “Shadows of a Great City.”
" Kerry ” is a one-act Enoch Ardenism by Bouci-
cault, and, while intensely amusing, is not so
original as it might be. It tells how a young hus-
band went to sea in pursuit of his calling, and how
his ship foundered, leaving him to grasp at the
waste of waters and clutch the great deep. After
he had done this for some time another sinking
ship wobbled slowly by,
and he was taken on
board and made to pump
like fury until the second
ship broke up also and
left him to lie on a rock
for 15 months. As a
natural result, when he
ultimately arrived at his
residence and emptied
the water out of his
pockets in the passage,
he found himself alto-
gether unexpected, and
had to break himself
gradually to his wife,
with the assistance of
Kerry, this latter gentle-
man being Mr Williamson
disguised in a character
which is almost as strik-
ing in its way as the
famous Stofel himself.
Maggie Knight plays the
forlorn grass - widow of
the story, and the good-
will which the people of
Sydney always feel to-
wards her keeps them
from rushing the stage
and destroying one of her
coadjutors—Mr. Edwin
Palmer. The “Shadows
of a Great City ” stalks
behind this cheerful little
comedy, and raises its
hydra-head in five
separate convulsions. It
makes a feeble and thin
pretence of having been
written to let in the light
of spiritual regenera-
tion upon the boulder-
strewn wastes of human
sinfulness, and it is
filled with startling
scenes in which honour-
able men are arrested for
stealing diamonds while
the accusation is corro-
borated by a born and
split person hidden under
the counter. It also con-
tains policemen who rise
through the floor like
silent fiends hoisting the
lid off the bottomless pit
in order to inhale the
balmy breezes of this
flower-strewn earth ; and
infants who are left on
reefs at midnight’s so-
lemn hour that the hun-
gry sea may rise and
take them in ; and amus-
ing convicts who dig
their way out of prison
with a fork and go forth
to carry new desolation
through the globe ; and
all manner of frantic per-
sons whose antics remind
the audience of a tiger
going out to tea. The
scenes amid which these
various characters go
round upon the tear are
strikingly beautiful, but
we are of opinion that
something cheaper and
less artistic would do
equally well for the
“ Shadows ” to wallow
upon ; the backgrounds
are too lavish for the moral
character of the show,
and the whole arrange-
ment seems as extrava-
gant as the purchase of
one of Titian’s master-
pieces to serve as a back-
ground for a one-eyed
cat eating liver. A great
steam-power of dramatic
talent, however, is com-
pressed into the “ Sha-
dows,” and this, to some
extent, disguises their
latent impossibleness.
The inimitable Mag-
gie Moore heads the
bill and J. C. William-
son follows. Want of
adequate adjectives pre-
vents us fully expressing
our feelings concerning
these two artistes; the
English language is woe-
fully scarce in terms ex-
pressive of admiration,
and the Persian—the only
modern tongue which is
equal to the emergency—
consists chiefly of char-
acters that look like in-
sane gum-brushes and are
thus incomprehensible to
the masses. Maggie
Knight appears in a dual
character as herself and
her mother, and is eminently successful both
ways ; Mr. Oily Peering mounts a large Hebraic
organ of scent and is well received as Abraham
Nathans, and Messrs. R. Stewart (brother of the
adored Nellie), Albert Norman, and Mrs. Edwin
Bryer are in the cast. The “ Shudders of a Great
City ” will be succeeded on December 2fith by
Charles Warner and “Hands Across the Sea ”
the Christmas Pantomime being postponed by a
blessed dispensation of Providence which shapeth
all things well.
## # #
“ Wanda,” a waste of human soul In
several acts, is the latest effort of the Majeronis
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney.) Like all dramas


founded on the writings of the gilded, swearing
woman who signs herself “ OukUP’ it contains
quite a number of characters whose wealth is
fabulous in its vastness and who carry diamonds
about in shovels and scale icy peaks with Koh-i-
-noors dropping in dozens from the tail-pockets of
their garments. The hero is a wonderfully hand-
some serf—the illegitimate son of a Russian prince
with two “ z’s” in his name, and having jumped
the elaim of a marquis this gentleman marries
the Countess Wanda von Szalras—a tall and dread-
fully beautiful lady of cold demeanour who owns
more money than would buy the earth, and
is prouder and more expensively dressed
than any woman could be without hiring some-
one else to help her. The happy pair live in a
castle weighing several billion tons, and situate
at an elevation of about 200,000 yards in the midst
of the largest and hardest frozen Alps that ever
were heard of, and there they worship each other,
until the Countess finds out what her husband
really is, and then she assumes an arrogant expres-
sion in her eye, and tells him to slide down off
these mountains with considerable velocity. She
take 3 up this attitude because her husband has
been a serf, and he deserves his fate on account of
his insane desire to be a bogus marquis.
The dubious peer accepts his fate and
skips for another home, and his wife
never smiles again. She wears a petrified aspect
and leans in silence against the expensive furni-
ture of her castle, and so the years pass by.
Meanwhile the man who didn’t manage to be'a
marquis leads a precarious existence in a slab
residence beside a lake, and in the long winter
nights he leans his head against the chimney and
listens to the “ wuff ” of the big, brown bear as it
lumbers past through the snow. Rut at last the
crisis comes. The son and heir of the exile puts
on his goloshes and goes out to look for his father,
and just when he arrives within 2J yards of the
Blab domicile he is attacked by a dish-cloth or an
eagle, or something of the sort. The father
rushes forth and blows the brains out of the
dishcloth with his gun, and then he falls a dis-
tance of two feet and breaks all his legs and arms
and his head, and fractures his back, and con-
cusses his innards, and just about this stage his
wife arrives and tells him that she forgives him
for having been thrown out of his palace, and bids
him come back before the fatted calf is frozen
stiff. The leading parts in this thankless drama
are played with remarkable power by Signor and
Signora Majeroni ; and Messrs. Jewett, Sterling
Whyte, and Heath, and Miss Emily Eitzroy lend
a lot of additional energy to the proceedings, but
“ Wanda ” is not the sort of drama we pine after
all the same. “ Youth,” which follows next week,
isn’t quite the sort of drama we pine after either,
but the characters in it aren’t quite so beastly
rich, and we prefer it on that account.
## * #
Frank Clark’s Minstrels are still doing a
reasonably successful business at Sydney Academy.
The Peramn trio are engaged this week in an en-
deavour to rival the living statuary of the Fausts,
but their clothes are too much wrinkled for the
part, and they are not sufficiently whitewashed to
till the bill. One of their principal feats is a re-
production of “Cain and Abel,” and the only ob-
jection to this particular act is that there seem to
be two Cains and only one Abel, or else there is a
Cain and a half murdering an Abel and a half—
but this requires thinking over. The new American
attractions, Dave Marion and Minnie Bell, opened
on Saturday and met with a certain amount of
success in the lightning change business, but a
loose-jointed disaster entitled, “Give him credit
for what he has done,” was, as a topical song, the
saddest failure recorded since the days when
Adam filed his schedule in Paradise, with assets
one serpent and an apple. This result, however,
was ascribed to the want of time for preparation
and the distressing effects of the long sea-voyage,
and it is possible that on a second attempt the
necessity for immediate homicide may become less
apparent.
*# # #
Mr. Charles Arnold and his famous
“dorg” open at Sydney Criterion on Boxing
Night in “ Hans the Boatman.” To the ordinary
eye it seems rather rash to take off the “Private
Secretary ” in the midst of its triumph, even to
make way for such a general favourite as “ Hans,”
but as the management is considerably over seven
we presume it knows what it is about.
*# # *
Mr George Miln, a tragedian who has few
equals on this side of an uninteresting globe, opens
a brief season at Sydney Opera House on Boxing
Night. He will be supported by a strong com-
pany and several tons of new scenery.
** * *
A change has come over the Elite Skating
Rink. The fair gyrater and the champion rinkist
have removed themselves for a period, and their
places have been taken by the World’s Circus.
During the Christmas weeks the trained horse
and the swinging gymnast will gladden the hearts
of the public, and several large sized clowns will
bring along their baskets of jokes which were new
as far back as the Dark Ages. Everything that
delights the eye and instructs the mind of child-
like humanity is to be found in a heap at the
Elite, and politicians who sit on rails and balance
themselves, when sober, on a pivot cannot do
better than study the double horse see-saw act. It
will be a revelation to them.
** * #
Mr. Frank Lincoln, described in the ad-
vertisements as “America’s Greatest Humorist,”
and “the Successor of Artemus Ward,” makes
bis first Australian appearance at Sydney Gaiety
on Saturday in a “ Melo-monologue Entertain-
ment” —whatever that may be. For our own
part, we would feel better about Mr Lincoln if
he did not herald his approach by a puff from the
Prince of Wales. Wales himself never had any
more humour than a sleeping horse, and his sup
port is a trial that is difficult to bear up against.
However, it is just possible that the new humorist
may hold up Successfully against the blasting in-
fluence, and out of Christian charity we trust he
may.
** * *
Just while we are enthusing over the
plucky Ashfield Aeronaut, news comes from
“home” that a cockney barber, who had never
before been “up in a balloon,” has successfully
“parachuted” to earth, and that Baldwin has
leaped off at an ascertained altitude of over 8000
feet. And now comes Mr. Bartholomew, to play
at trapeze a thousand feet above our heads.
#* * *
Nothing of an overwhelming character
threatens to occur at any of the Melbourne
theatres on Boxing Night, unless Brough and
Boucicaulb have decided to make the welkin ring
at the Bijon on that festive occasion. Perhaps
they will. In the Middle Ages, and such periods,
the welkin always did ring about Christmas, and
those good old customs ought to be kept up. The
Royal pantomime may do something to the
welkin, although the experience of recent years Is
unfavourable to the idea. “ Dorothy” will take
a third innings at the Princess’s, and the Alex-
andra will excite popular imagination with “Mar-
vellous Melbourne,” if a change seems right and
necessary. Mr. Simonson may be advised to hold
back “Faust” until the 26th, although Nico-
demus is generally feeling pretty bad on that date.
And the niggers are preparing bills of great mag-
nitude, including some especially melting refer-
ences to their everlasting “ mother.”
** # #
The great draw In London at present is
“Niagara,” perhaps the cleverest illusion ever
known. The scene is on canvas, and the specta-
tors walk along galleries laid out as gravel-paths;
coloured lights are so skilfully thrown on the
scene that it looks at least a quarter of a mile
away, while the leap of the hurrying waters, the
glint of the spray in the sunshine, and the verdure
of the banks and trees are all reproduced with the
utmost fidelity. The record is 10,000 visitors (at a
shilling) daily.
#* * #
In reply to Henry Irvlng’a retort at the
Edinburgh Pen-and-Pencil Club to George
Moore’s article on “Mummer Worship,” Harry
Quilter (Editor Universal Review) points out
that social worship of the stage is an undesirable
thing, that the profession is not entitled to rank
with professions concerned with the serious
matters of life, and that it is a dangerous occupa-
tion for women, and not particularly beneficial to
men. Pure women, of course, and noble, self-
sacrificing men are to be found on the stage, but
against them are arrayed the “ big battalions.”
Therefore, he had the article “ written as a matter
of duty, and choose Mr. Moore to write it, know-
ing that his vivid and unqualified method of state-
ment would arouse an attention frequently denied
to more temperate and closely-reasoned argu-
ANCIENT V. MODERN.
This old gentleman has fallen asleep while reading the beautiful but com-
paratively unexciting story of how Jezebel was eaten by the dogs. But he never
falls asleep while reading a section of the “highly moral” press.
ments.” P.S.—Mr. Harry Quilter is the young
man whom Miss Fortescue, actress, jilted in
favour of Lord Gumboil, who subsequently jilted
Miss Fortescue.
#* # #
The Prince and Princess of Wales were
present at one of Baldwin’s parachuting feats in
London and congratulated him on his perform-
ance. We assert this in the interests of Potts-
Poiotsra who may have kept away from Williams’
aerial exhibition believing that it was infra dig.
** * #
In a new play, “ The Fair Bigamist,”
which was being performed at the Royalty
Theatre, London, last month, the action of the
piece is laid on a New Zealand goldfield and in
Melbourne and Sydney.
## # #
Berry Wall, the New York “King of the
Dudes ” has gone on the stage. It is all very well
for society belles like the Langtry and Mrs.
Brown-Potter to “travel on their pretty” on the
stage, but it is a hazardous experiment so far as a
male “missy ” is concerned.
## # #
“ The only Maccabe,” with T. V. Twin-
ning as mansger, was showing in Colombo,
Ceylon, on Oct. 15.
** * *
There Is not a single theatre or music-hall
within the limits of the city of London.
#* * *
Toole relates in his recently published
“Reminiscences” that Charles Mathews told him
of “ the boots ” at a country hotel where he was
staying asking to be paid for going to the theatre.
Mathews, struck with the fellow’s civility, gave
him an order for the play. “ Come and see the
piece, Tom,” said Mathews. “At the theatre ?”
“Yes,” said Mathews, “here is an order for you.”
The next day Mathews said, “ Well, Tom, did
you like the play ?” “Oh ! yes,” said the boots,
in a dubious kind of way ; “ but who’s to pay me
for my time ? r
*# * *
The inherent clangers of parachuting have
drawn the following from “ Dagonet ” :
It is quite likely that Baldwin may one day be killed in
the exercise of his profession. So may the steeple-jack ;
so may the sailor, the engine-driver, and the jockey.
The soldier earns his living by actually inviting death ;
and not only is it his business to be killed now and then,
but he has also to try to kill other people. Now, Baldwin
doesn’t do that. Presuming he did fall, we may take it
far granted he would not endeavour to fall on somebody
else.
## # #
To would appear that the Nellie Farren-
cwm-Fred Leslie-ctm-Marquis of Queensberry
a Kf? re g a tion had arranged that the original Gaiety
chorus should meet them in ’Frisco, and play
during the American tour. However, while the
winsome Nellie, the lithe Letty, and the jocund
Marion were breaking the hearts and emptying
the pockets of the Australian dudes, their
chorus were being married off, “ hand over fist ”
in America, and there not being enough left to
make up a decent leg-show, a fresh instalment
of thirty “young ladies” has been sent from Lon-
don to make up the loss.
## # #
From Mapleson’s “Memoirs”:—For the
Drury ,Lane season of 185 fl two conductors had
been engaged, Signor Arditi and Mr. (afterward
Sir Julius) Benedict. Both were excellent, but
neither wished to be mistaken for the other. Both,
however, were bald, and I remember on one
occasion, when a grand combined performance
was to take place, Benedict going into the prima
donna’s dressing-room, taking up a brush, and
carefully arranging his scanty hair so as to cover
as much as possible of his denuded cranium.
“What are you about, Benedict?” I asked.
“Nothing particular,” he replied; “only I don’t
want, while wielding the baton, to be mistaken
for Arditi.” Soon afterward Arditi appeared,
and with a couple of brushes began operating on
his hair, so as to leave as much as possible of his
bare skull exposed to view. He explained his
action by exclaiming : “I don’t want to be mis-
taken for Benedict! ”
** # #
A compositor has taken to the stage in
Melbourne. He does not promise to go beyond
the stick.
## * #
Whilst an amateur was singing at a con-
cert in a Melbourne suburb, the other night, a
man in the audience went off into a fit from which
he never recovered. P.S. —He was the envy of
all present.
## # #
There is a man at Sb. Kilda (Vic.) who
can whistle a tune from his windpipe with his lips
closed. He also whistles with a cigar in his
mouth, and can even produce melody though his
mouth and nose are completely stopped. He is
now considering an offer of £2O a week to appe r
on the Melbourne stage.
## * *
Punch and Truth pronounce Gilberts
libretto of “ The Yeoman of the Guard ” feeble.
The Baseball Experiment.
The great American baseball combination, con
sisting of some 20 players and about as many at-
tendant reporters—for as in English swelldom
every man has a waiter behind his chair, so, in
America, every baseballer has a scribe to record
his doings—have arrived on Australian soil, have
been heartily welcomed, and have given an exhi-
bition game at the N.S.W. Crieket Association
ground, before some 10,000 spectators. When
Millionaire Spalding, of Chicago (and, by the
way, Mr. Spalding piled up his dollars on ihe
baseball diamond), conceived the idea of exploit-
ing Australia in the interests of the American
national game, he took in band a very heavy con-
tract. As an expedition it is almost as great as our
little picnic to the Soudan, with the chance of more
glory and fewer hard knocks. Mr. Spalding was
coming to a country which is the veritable king-
dom of sport, where athletes can live in purple
and fine linen, and where a man can make £,">000
or £(>000 two or three times a year if he is fast
enough to win a Botany, or can row the
Parramatta course in a little over 19 minutes.
But lie was also coming to a country where cricket
and football, the two games between which base-
ball is in a way a compromise, holds potent
sway. High-class cricket is played in Aus-
tralia, and the man who appreciates the
fine points of good cricket would fail to be im-
pressed with the undoubtedly fine points of base-
ball. So while cricket discounts the scientific part
of the American game, football discounts its rough er,
more “flukey” characteristics. The man who
acquires a taste for the “ blood-red wine of the
Sansavine ” that Longfellow sings of and the
foaming ale of Heidelberg is not likely to in
middle life develop a craving for the gout of a
mixture of the two tipples, and this is just how
The Bulletin thinks the promoters of the Aus-
tralian baseball experiment will pan out. And
there is another fact that will not tend to popularise
the ball-game in the Australias —it is merely the
apotheosis of rounders, a game considered good
enough for the small boys at a primary school,
but discarded along with knickerbockers, hum-
ming tops, and other accessories of the nursery.
* •
While this, in our estimate, is the opinion of base-
ball entertained by the average Australian, it is
very possible that with acquaintance the prejudice
may be overcome. To introduce it thoroughly on
Australian soil the American enthusiasts should
commence at the foot of the ladder and seek to
popularise it amongst the rising generation. This
could best be effected by offering prizes for com-
petition amongst the schools of the colonies, and,
no doubt, in the course of four or five years, the
promoters would be rewarded by finding baseball
in these colonies a healthy, flourishing plant, and
giving promise of speedily taking its place after
cricket and football as a popular pastime. We
know that there are some silly people in our midst
who believe that baseball will “ catch on ” here
speedily; that it is infectious, like the measles, and
that, once you’ve got the mania, you’ve got to desert
your sister and your mother and your mother-in-law
and your ox and your ass and everything that you
have and go play the game ; indeed a Sydney
daily paper which published a two-column report
of Saturday’s exhibition match, couched in tech-
nical language that to 99 out of every 100 of its
readers, must have been as unintelligable as the
differential calculus, is evidently one of those. No !
no ! Mr. Spalding will find baseball a tender
exotic that will take years of careful handling
before it can be successfully introduced here as a
game for meD.
* • .
The promoters of the tour have done everything
in their power to make it a success; they have
advertised lavishly and well, the teams are com-
posed of as magnificent specimens of physical
manhood as one would wish to see, and if the ven-
ture fails in effecting at once its primary object,
and which for the reasons already stated we very
much fear it won’t, Mr. Spalding and his confreres
can take to themselves the consolation that if they
have not achieved success they have at least
deserved it.
Madame Amet, a daughter of the first
Napoleon’s general, Junot, died in Paris the other
day, aged 87.
Mr. Rudder, founder of Kempsey town-
ship, N.S.W., steered a heavenward course the
other day. He leaves 200 descendants, most of
whom read The Bulletin.
Notwithstanding that two judges of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court have pubiicly given their
decision in favour of admitting certain evidence
with respect to the death of the man Andrews, to
be used at the trial of Louisa Collins for the
murder of her second husband, it is very likely
that the opinion of the Full Court will be taken
on the point with a view to having the conviction
quashed. The leading lawyers are much divided
in opinion upon the matter, which is certainly a
very arguable one. There is another strong
technicality upon which it may be sought to
upset the conviction.
Perth Land is a good investment. Plans from
Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
Christmas Box. Buy Perth land, good spec.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Company,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
£JOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Xmas Holiday and every Afternoon.
a. e. smiths
m
*
"f
The Original SPECIALTY CHARACTER & ACROBATIC
WONDER on ROLLERS.


THE
“Loyal Demonstration Man’s” Story.
Excepting only that week in the hospital I
slept each night in the South Yarra Domain, and
awoke each morning dewy, but refreshed.
* * *
Walking down Bourke-sbreet one lucky
February afternoon, I met Mr. Yankland, the
great theatrical lessee and manager. Extreme
hunger made me a desperate man, and I asked
him if he could give me something to do. I
waxed eloquent. I grew so excited over .my
beautiful story of what I might accomplish if I
once had a fair start that the manager looked at
me in artistic admiration
“ * oung man, your enthusiasm is quite in-
fectious,” said Yankland. He contracted his
brows over those piercing dark eyes, and a faint
twilight of a smile played round his clean-shaven
mouth. Then he gave me a shilling and bade me
call upon him at the Vice-Regality Theatre next
morning. I lefb my benefactor with the conviction
that Fortune was about to take me under her wing.
So she was.
* * *
According to appointment I waited upon
Mr. Yankland next morning The stage-door-
keeper had evidently received instructions to pass
a gentleman of my appearance, and the fact that
I wore no boots seemed to assure him of my
identity. I stumbled around in a dark passage
until Yankland burst upon the gloom and
beckoned me to follow him into one of those rooms
which newspaper reporters describe as a sanctum,
because they can’t think of any better term. Two
I landed In Australia with a few articles
of wearing apparel and three and-threepence in
specie. It was a hard struggle that I was engaged
in during the first six months of my sojourn in
this Greater Britain across the seas. Many and
many a time have I stood, footsore and hungry,
upon the steps of the Melbourne General Post-
office and cursed the wayward spirit which
tempted me to leave the old folks at home and the
ivy- clad cottage where I first drew brea'h of life —
forgetting, meanwhile, that I had departed at the
particular request of the male author of my being,
who paid my passage-money and told me not to
trouble about writing. Often and often, in those
old hard times, did I fight against despair on
doorsteps, and pick out the little scraps of iron
which had entered into my sole by the way. But
this is a digression.
*
The three-and-threepence did not latt so
long as I could have wished. What with the
exorbitant price of gas in Melbourne, the cost of
all those luxuries to which I had been accustomed
from my youth upwards, and an abnormally low
bank rate of interest, I found myself pressed for
money at an early period of my new career. I
looked for work with such vigour that I would
sometimes have to lean against a lamp-post and
snatch a few hours’ slumber just to keep me going.
But all my searching was in vain. In England I
had been an occasional knife-and-boot -cleaner,
living on secret a.sistance from mother, until
father behaved so cruelly. I came out with my
old profession in my hand, so to speak, but
nobody gave me a chance to practise on account
of my lacking colonial experience. At all the
hotels they laid great stress upon the value of
colonial experience in knife and boot-cleaning.
The same at boarding-houses, although I did
nearly talk an old lady, down Hotham way, into
taking me on trial. She was almost persuaded,
when her niece reminded her that the other men
had had colonial experience, whereupon my old
lady said she didn’t like to risk it, but when I
knew more about the country I might call again
if I was passing that way. Next time I passed
that way the kind-hearted creature was dead and
buried. It appeared that she had withered like
a flower after one interview. Yery likely I
breathed on her too much.
# *
After two months of seeking my fortune
under the Southern Cross my landlady thrust her
bill upon me in a manner that admitted of but one
construction. The awful document was on my
dressing-table when I returned home after looking
for work—pinned to my pillow-case when I retired
for the night—in my boot next morning, and on
my plate at each meal. It troubled me most at
dinner, because the other boarders made a practice
of stopping their conversation and watching me
while I went through a ghastly imitation of sur-
prise at seeing anything so unexpected. My land-
lady added to the unpleasantness of this situation
by asking if I found the bill quite correct. The
question began to pall on me after a while, and I
replied, “Scarcely had time to look through it,
Mrs. M'Dougall,” until I felt quite sick.
The “ new gentleman from home ” (myself) had
been rather a favourite with she landlady at firet,
and she gave herself no concern touching the ac-
count. Perhaps there was a certain misleading
air of monthly remittances from well-tc-do rela-
tives about me. Then again the landlady thought
that a young man like me would be in great re-
quest for merchants’ offices. As the weeks slipped
by, and the merchants didn't telegraph for me to
c une at once, Mrs. M'Dcugall suggested, with a
cough, that I had b.tter accept a minor position in
the first instance —somethir g at £3 or £4 a week.
And all this while I war wearing oat my only
pair of boots in a miserable search after knife and
boot-cleaning. I am blushing now, even as I
write, at the recollection of it.
Alter Mrs. M'Dmgall lost all fahh, when she
had served me with 126 copies of her little bill
(which kept on growing, meanwhile, like a veget-
able-marrow) the enf came suddenly. It was on
one of those close, oppr«s ive evenings hat I
parted from Mrs. M Dougall. I was vrry sorry
to go, and I never would h»vrt gone at ail but for
the other lodgers. Thsy ca r ri dme out into the
street and dropped me heavily upon my tin-box.
I never felt more hurt in all my life.
* *
Why dwell upon the hardships patiently
endured all through that summer-the summer of
1886-7 ? I was poor but honest. I never stole
anything worth mentioning, although a number
of gentlemen who had come down rather low like
myself wanted me to join them in various
schemes for the redistribution of property.
The lately-deceased land-boom was in its
vigorous boyhood abiut that time, and
one of my chance acquaintances showed me
the iniquity of land-syndicating. Then he pointed
out the urgent necessity for grabbing Tom Bent’s
ticker or Fink’s diamond rings on a dark night,
and pawning same for the benefit of the poor —we
two being the poor.
But I said I would rather work as long as my
strength held out. Odd join came in my way,
and I contrived to keep body and soul together
somehow, notwithstanding that after a very bad
week I would be nearly all toul.
These odd jobs generally took the form of help-
ing Chinamen to push their trucks up steep hills
and keeping watch over the vegetables while John
went after orders. One of the very few things I
ever stole was a bunch of watercress, which I sub-
sequently consumed in secret. It sent me to the
hospital for a week, so I suppose the darned stuff
was not as welly flesh as usual. Or, perhaps it
was too fresh, and the germs hadn’t yet died of
their own poison. But, however—-I struggled
along in an honest way and preserved my self-
respect.
other gentlemen were in the sanctum, also a
delicious-looking young 1 *dy with a mosb ravish-
ing dimple in one of her cheeks. All three of
them eyed me narrowly and appeared to be deeply
interested in my visit.
“ Can you always simulate excitement as
cleverly as you did yesterday, young fellow ? ”
Yankland clapped me on the shoulder as he put
bhis question.
“I was excited then, sir, but I could sham
emobion if you ordered it, sir.” Then 1 found
courage to ask if he wanted me to play a small
part.
“In front of the footlights,” quietly interposed
one of the other gentlemen. It was Mr. Hope.
I knew his name because he had been pointed out
to me in the street once.
“Very well, then,” continued Yankland,
“shout ‘Three cheers for His Excellency the
Governor !’ as though you meant it.”
I did. I took a deep breath and fired off those
words with all the passion I could pump up. I
clutched what was lefb of my hat and waved it,
and when the three gentlemen and the delicious
lady exchanged looks of joy I crowned my triumph
by screaming “One more cheer for dear Lady
Loch !” It was a magnificent effort. Yankland
leant across to the tall, amiable seeming gentleman
who had not yet spoken, and said, “By Jove!
that will fetch ’em.” Then Mr. Hope whispered
something to Yankland, who said, “Very good
idea. Try him with it now.”
Mr. Hope turned sharply to me and explained
that he was about to read some passages from a
comic opera called “ lolanthe.”
“Listen attentively,” says Hope, “and when-
ever I say ‘ House of Peers,’ or ‘ British represen-
tative Peer,’ I want you to stamp and applaud
violently, and to say, ‘Ah! the Peers are the
backbone of the Empire,’ as though you were
thinking aloud.”
* • *
Juab at this point tha young lady said she
was going shopping with mamma, and she couldn’t
wait any longer. So I was told to take her vacant
chair, and imagine I was in the stalls of the
Vice-regality Theatre. Hope read passages aloud
(rather badly as it seemed to me), and I raised a
general burst of applause every time he came to
“Peers.” But instead of thinking aloud the
exact line he gave me, I changed it to, “ Yes, the
Peers first made Australia, and the Peers will
preserve it.” Hope approved of the alteration ; so
did the others. Then they told me to wait out-
side for a few minutes, until they had drawn up
my instructions.
I wasn’t kept waiting for loDg. Mr. Yankland
called me into the room and told me to look over
a little paper he put bsfore me and sign it if I felt
satisfied. I felt very satisfied. By the terms of
this agreement I engaged myself to those gentle-
men for three years at several shillings per week
to act as Loyal Demonstration Leader at the
Vice-Regality theatre. In a general way I
should not be required to do much unless the
Governor happened to attend the show. On
such occasions, of course, I was to play the part I
had already rehearsed with grabifyinsr success.
During the run of melodramas containing refer-
ences to England’s greatness, my regular attend-
ance would be expected. I was ordered to keep
a careful watch over comedies in which the
nobility showed up badly, and say “ Sssh-sh !”
when their conduct caused the other characters to
blackguard them. All these instructions were
roughly sketched on another paper, which I took
away in my pocket. Finally, it was to be part of
my business to call at the Vice-Regality stage-door
every night, so as to be promptly advised if any-
thing very special in the way of popular enthu-
siasm was wanted. Mr. Yankland gave me a
complete rig-out of clothes, and a week’s salary in
advance, and said I was a made man if I kept
sober.
* * •
I started work on the following Saturday
night My work speaks for itself. There is no
occasion for me to point out that Governors never
got such receptions in the old times as they get now,
especially at the Vice-Regality. Mr. Yankland and
his partner (by the way, I know who that young
lady was now) are well satisfied with me, and want
to extend the engagement at another pound a
week before the old one is nearly run out. They
said something about having my case put before
the Queen, but there had bsen some champagne
about at the time. Anyhow, things are looking
better for me than ever before. At Mr. Yankland’s
suggestion I have been engaged to lead loyal
demonstrations at the meet lags of a great racing
club. It won’o clash with my night work, and the
fee is £l5 each meeting, cash in advance. The
secretary is going to have a magnificent display of
devotion to the Throne at next big meeting and—
but it’s getting on for eight pan and this is a
Command Night.
P.S. —This story is mostly lies Frozen
out of the boot-cleaning profession I have fallen
into the ranks of journalism. While I btick to
the Fourth Estate 1 shall not often be short of a
polony in my hat. —A ithoji
From “ Toole’s Reminkcerces ” :
“Lord Dundreary” Sothern accompanied Mrs. John
Wood into an ironmonger’s shop and asked fur a oopy oi
Macaulay’s “History of England.” “We do not sell
books, sir,” said the assistant, “ this is an ironmonger’s
shop.” “ Well, I m Dot particular,” said Sothern, pre-
tending to be deaf; “ I don’t oare whether it is bound in
calf or Russia.” “ But this is not a bookseller’s,” shouted
the assistant. “ All right,” said Sothern ; ‘ wrap it up
neatly. I want to have it sent down to the hotel. It’s
for a present I wish to make to a relative.” “We don’t
keep it,” shouted the assistant, getting red in the faoe.
“Do it up as if it were for your own mother. I don’t
want anything better than that,’ said Sothern. “ f would
like to write my name on the fly leaf.” “Sir,” bawled
the assistant at the top of his voice, “ oan’t you see we do
Dot keep books ?' “Very well,” said Sothern, quite un-
disturbed, “I will wait for it.” The clerk appealed ta his
master, and said he thought the customer must be off his
head. “ What is it, sir ? What do you desire ? ’ he said
to Sothern. “ I want to buy a file,” replied the actor ;
“ a plain file, four or five inches long.” “ Certainly,” said
the master, casting a withering glance at his assistant.
THE WORM WILL TURN.
A CHRISTMAS STORY FOR ORPHANS.
BY HOP.
Once there was a statesman
who went and wrote what he
called a poem on a poor homeless
orphan-boy. The latter was too
young to defend himself at the
time, but boys will not always be
&boys. They sometimes grow up.
At all events this orphan grew up and edited a
humorous paper and waxed rich and wore a plug hat.
But the memory of the versified stigma upon his early
childhood never left him for a moment.
One day while seeking relaxation from toil
by strolling through the neighboring graveyard, he
stumbled upon a comparatively unmarked grave,
which, however, he succeeded in identifying as that
of the author of the poem upon his helpless infancy,
(which we will here remark still rankled in bis
bosom.)
The rest is soon told. An expensive
monument surmounted by a statue carved
in brass (not a particularly flattering por-
trait by the bye) now marks the grave
where sleeps the lanegyrisb of the
orphan s childhood. The bill for the
same was sent m to the orphan whom the
author of this tale now disrafises without
a stain on his character.
Wolfe's Schnapps
Is more Wholesome than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And Is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
High Art Photography.— For artistic posing
and effective lighting combining softness with
brilliancy, the Photographs of CHARLEMQNT
& 00., Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellenoy Lord Oarlngton
Everybody says— and what everybody Bays must be true
-thatPemell’s Snow-whit* Patbnt Roll*r Flour is the
best In the market
Perth Land is a good investment. Plans from
Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
Microscopic Wonders.
One of the leading scientific publications states
that many people are now using the microscope to
discover the real cause of disease in the system,
and to detect adulterations of food and medicines.
This wonderful instrument has saved many a
life. A microscopical test shows, for instance, the
presence of albumen, or the life of the blood, in
cerbain derangements of the kidneys, but medi-
cine does not tell us how far advanced the derange-
ment is, or whether it shall prove fatal.
The microscope, however, gives us this know-
ledge :
Bright’s disease, which so many people dread,
was not fully known until the microscope revealed
its characteristics. It greatly aids the physiciaD,
skilled in its use, in determining how far disease
has advanced, and gives a fuller idea of the true
structure of the kidneys.
A noted German scholar recently discovered
that by the aid of the microscope the physician
can tell if there is a tumor forming in the system,
and if certain appearances are seen in the fluids
passed, ib is proof positive that the tumor is to
be a malignant one.
If any derangement of the kidneys is detected
by the microscope the physician looks for the de-
velopment of almost any disease the system is heir
to, and any indication of Bright’s disease which
has no symptoms of its own and cannot be fully
recognised except by the microscope, he looks upon
with alarm.
This disease has existed for more than 2000
years. It is only recently that the micros-
cope has revealed to us its universal prevalence
and fatal character. Persons who formerly died
of what was called general debility, nervous break-
down, dropsy, paralysis, heart disease, rheumatism,
apoplexy, etc., are now known to have really died
of kidney disease, because, had there been no dis-
order of the kidneys, the chances are that the
effects from which they died would never have
existed.
As yet neither homeopathist nor allopathist is
prepared with a cure for deranged kidneys, but
the world has long since recognised and many
medical gentlemen also recognise and prescube
Warner's safe cure for these derangements, and
admit that it is the only specific for the common
and advanced forms of kidney disorders
Formerly the true cause of death was discovered
only after death. To-day the microscope shows
us, in the water we pass, the dangerous condition
of any organ in the body, thus enabling us to treat
it promptly, and escape premature death.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
PlanoSp Organsp MualCp
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followla
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS;
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SOHAAF and 00. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect me d. rate-priced Piano ever
factored
Our BELLING PIANO, whioh cannot be ex
oelled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves 1 The Estep
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, worki
mansbip and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM
W« H, PJMJNB > GO-, m


Personal Items.
Composer Cowen speaks four languages
Sir Hercules Robinson is now (15 years old.
The new incumbent of the mayoralty of
Dunedin (N.Z.) is an undertaker.
Louisa Collins, the Botany husband poi-
soner, is said to be a near relative of the late Ben
Hall, bushranger.
The Mayor ol Adelaide, Sir Edwin Car-
ington—we mean Smith—who is a knight and a
brewer, is going 'Ome,
Henry Kendall’s widow is housekeeper at
the offices of Public Instruction and her son has a
cadetship in the “ Works ” Department.
Mr. T. M’Nevin, the newly-appointed
Deputy Stipendiary Magistrate, is a Roman
Catholic, and the only one of that faith on the
Sydney paid bench.
The massive Miss Alice Barnttb has ar-
rived safely in Enerland, bub her feathers have
been ruffled by an English journalist, inquiring if
she was shipped free in lieu of ballast.
The Duke of Westminster has made deadly
enemies of the London doctors. He has stipu-
lated in granting new leases to medical men that
no brass-plates shall be placed on their doors.
David Buchanan, M.P. and criminal ad-
vocate, wants to get rid of trial by jury. There
certainly is one very strong objection to trial by
jury : it has made a fortune for David Buchanan.
| |A firm of London tailors have obtained
judgment against Sir Ambrose Shea, K.C.8., for
£4 balance of account for hire of court suit which
Sir Ambrose used at the Queen’s Jubilee cele-
bration.
Ex-President Sa’amon, of HaytJ, died
from the shock consequent on an operation of
lithotomy. His own daughter, Madame Magnus,
who is a graduate of the Paris School of Medicine,
was the principal operator.
The Charters Towers Herald accuses
Thadeus O Kane of editing the Northern Miner
solely with scissors during the recent hot spell.
We awaib Editor O’Kane’s retort courteous. It
will not be scissors-work.
The Argus says that when the applications
for the Yicborian chief railway-commiesionership
were being considered, Mr. Speight’s principal
rival was a distinguished Indian colonel. The
Cabinet chose Speight because the Colonel wore
an eye-glass.
The £138,141 left by Mr. James Campsle
Dalgleish, late district-surveyor at Goulburn,
N.S.W., who died so suddenly at Melbourne re-
cently, was chiefly the result of a successful silver-
share speculation. Mr. Dalgleish’s official salary
was about £7OO.
G. R. Sines relates how Mrs. Gordon
Bai)lie(“01d Bailey” he styles hei) interviewed
him as Mrs. Knight Aston three years ago, and
offered him £5OO for the right to play “ The Merry
Duchess ”in the Australias. Shs talked so much
that she gave herself away, and, after several
meetings, Sims gob rid of her by giving her a
letter to his legal adviser, that functionary being
instructed bo parb with the desired permission for
hard cash only.
Refeiring to the cabb d news that the Ger-
man Emperor has meningitis and that hi« life
hangs by a thread, Sydney Echo asks: “From
what source have these terrible diseases ert pt into
the life-current of the German Royal family
Were the young Emperor asked the question, he
would, as would Bismarck, attribute his own evil
physical inheritance to the alliance with ihe
Guelphs. In fact this belief is the cause of the
coldness existing between him and his mother.
The late Kong Meng was a (rua China-
man. His widow has obtained probate of his
will and taken her affilavit that “the deceased
left no real estate in the colony of Victoria. He
ltfb personal property in the colony rot exciedmg
the value of £1000.” We' rise to suggest that
Kong Meng revenged his despised race upon the
public exchequer by giving his property to his
fam ly ere departing to annex his little stcra of
treasures previously laid up in heaven. That
£lOOO, apparently, represents the value of some
odds and ends that he couldn’t conveniently free
of legacy-duty.
Some candid friend has published a little
sketch of the life of ex-Marshal Bazaine by way
of exculpating that fallen soldier from the worst
of the charges brought against him. Perhaps it
would have been better for the dead man’s memory
if this candid friend had kept quiet. Among the
other items of his damning explanation he says :
When a man who knew the ex-Marshal well was once
asked what it was that in his opinion brought about that
general’s ruin, whether ambition, incapacity, or cowardice,
he replied at once, “ Women.” Women in Mexico, women
in camp, women in Metz. When French soldiers
were starving in the fortress, Bazaine’s women were
feasting on champagne and truffles. But for Bazaine’s
womeD, the entire history of the war, and, perhaps, of
Europe, would have been changed.
Viscount Hinton still perambulates London
with his barrel-organ and a placard attached
setting forth that he is the stone- broke son of Earl
Poulett, and he is said to be doing a roaring
business. The question at issue between the
Visoount and his father, however, remains still
unsettled, and consequently the bearer of the
barrel-organ is as far removed as ever from the
fatted calf which grazes on old Poulett’s back pre-
mises. The Earl himself married a dancing-girl,
with whom he lived in a state of chronic warfare
ever afterwards, and Hinton claims to be the son
and heir of this loving couple, while the indignant
Poulett asserts that he was only the son of his
mother through an illicit amour with a bricklayer.
There is a certain bricklaying aspect about Hinton
which seems to lend colour to this theory, but the
jxfint has never been settled to the satisfaction of
both parties concerned.
Benjamin Brook, late chief cleik In the
Victorian Lands Office, is putting in his little two
years’ for forging orders in payment of bogus
rabbit-extermination wages. Much official sorrow
was expressed on behalf of this Brook, who
might have gone on for ever—like the brook of
poetry -if he hadn’t been found out. But to the
cold, outside world it would appear that a man
who has picked his teeth in a good Government
billet for 24 years ought to be just about as honest
as any poor devil of a merchant’s clerk doing ten
times the work for a fifth of the other fellow’s
salary.
“The whole department of modern me-
chanism is to be revolutionised by the new Keeley
motor. Steam, electricity, clockwork—all will bs
played out. The motor consists of a metal globe,
about 29 inches in diameter, pivoting on one of its
poles vertically. At the other pole is a movable
pivot, revolving wibh the globe and projecting
beyond the supporting framework. At the end of
this movable pivot is a pulley-and-sbrap arrange-
ment, which transmits the mobive power to what-
ever mechanism is to be worked. The fixed pivot
is prolonged into the interior of the globe, and is
connected in some mysterious way with a vibrat-
ing apparatus, and this is the secret of the whole
business, for, thanks to this vibratory business,
the motive power is supplied by nothing more or
less than sound, converted into force.” —Ex-
change.
The new German protectorate at Zanzibar
has been raided by the native Home Rulers armed
with clubs and other implements, and at latest
advices the German garrison was in a very tight
place and not at all likely to get out alive. Britain
is also making a frantic effort bo get reinforce-
ments to Suakim before the oft killed Osman
Digna slays the army which was deposited there
to uphold Britain’s greatness ; and a German
scientist is organising an expedition to look for
Stanley, who is at present forming a procession of
one in search of Emin Bay. John of Abyssinia,
at latest advices, has licked the Arabs of the
Soudan ; and Menelek of Shoa is rising bo lick
John in his turn. The Italians, meanwhile, are
going to lick them both when the weather gets
more settled, and they arc both going to lick the
Italians. Altogether there is a lot of fun just now
n the Dark Continent.
U A recent Chinese traveller describes the
Mongolian troops as wearing quilted petticoats,
satin boots, and bead-necklaces, these being re-
garded as essential portions of their uniform.
They carry a paper-umbrella and a fan apiece
when they march to the battlefield,
and in conducting a night attack each man is pro-
vided with a lantern for fear of bogies. Austra-
lian troops would do well to study these facts in
view of that Chinese invasion which is perpetual!
looming on the Eastern horizon. The colonial
avengers, so far, have had little experience of war,
and none at all of enemies who fight with lanterns
and umbrellas, and it is necessary to decide what
to do under such novel conditions. Our own
opinion is that a Cornstalk force armed with
mangles and old directories would make small
hash of the Asiatic veterans, but so far there has
been no opportunity of putting this theory to the
test.
Sir Henry Barkly, while Governor of the
Mauritius, gave a ball, and one of his aides-de-
camp, while passing through the supper-room,
noticed a distinguished guest collar a whole fowl,
wrap it in his handkerchief, and carefully stow it
away in the ample pocket of his swallow-tailed
coat. Just as he had it safely planted, he dis-
covered that his movements had been watched,
and, by way of apology, he stammered out, “ I—l
—am merely taking home a little trifle for the
children.” “Quite right, too,” was the reassuring
reply, “ allow me to help you with something to
flavour it.” And with that the aide-de-camp,
seizing a sauce-boat filled to the brim, dexterously
emptied its contents into the fowl annexer’s
pocket, while the rest of the male guests who
stood round shouted, “ Ha, ha I” and the ladies
stuffed their pocket-handkerchiefs into their
mouths.
Tae Shah of Persia intends making
another European tour next year, and with com-
mendable forethought he is now levying a special
tax to provide the sinews of war for his journey.
Last time Nassr ed-din visited Europe he became
short of cash and was forced to pawn his diamond
buttons to such an extent that by the time he got
back to Teheran he had his royal pantaloons tied
up with string while odd trowser-buttons of the
Giaour secured his tunic; and, worst of all, he
had nothing to show for his trip but a pocketful
of pawn-tickets. Experientia (locet, and the Shah
has said Bismillah, and sworn by the goatee ani
side-boards of the Prophet that he won’t get so
badly left this time.
Premier Parkes said on Monday at Braid-
wood that “office was not worth holdiog unless it
could be held without fawning to one or coaxing
the other, unless it could be held with perfect in-
dependence, with a desire to conducb legislation to
wise ends ; and unless it could be so held, he for
one would scorn to hold it.” On the very morn-
ing upon which this nice little moral copy-book
maxim was reported in the White Waistcoat
press, the papers reported a Supreme Court action
in which Premier Parkes was sued for £1512 2s. 53.
by a Sydney loan-oflfice boss, one Abraham Fried-
man, on three dishonoured promissory-notes of
£220, £6OO, and £6OO respectively, with interest
thereon. Thejdefence was a deed of assignment
executed by the maxim-man, and plaintiff s coun-
sel being compelled bo admit that the assignment
was valid a verdict was given for defendant. In-
dependence, indeed !
Dear Bulletin,— Yesterday a broken-
down racehorse was offered me as a “ take-down
for the shearers next year. How little the vendor
knows about the bush ! Your “ take-down _ now
must do the half-mile in 51, and I question if, at
two miles, a first-class horse from Sydney would
win off the grass, Only last week a man called
at my camp who was as great in his day as Beach
(in his own line). I refer to Albert Edward Bird,
the long-distance runner. What sorb of a man
can you send to run him two miles, even now '
He got on a match at a shed where he was wool-
rolling, but the policeman on duty put him away,
and he only drew a small forfeit. Then last year
the “Wobbler” brought out a mate, a shearer
who did not shear, and wanted bo match him to
run LOO or 150 yards. Dut we know the Wob-
bler,” and we don’t lose (sober) to him. His man
had No. 6 browsers on a No. 4 figure, razeed to
three. His name was Clarke. Jumpers, too:
We have a nig. whose little hop is sft. 10m. And
still a man offers me a £lO screw to “ take down
the shearers.— Scotty the Wrinkler.
Cut Bono.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Ye blind ! who are striving with sordid toil
To grasp those gains that thy souls assoil ;
Ye fools ! whose hurrying restless days
Ye are spending in Greed’s unhallowed ways ;
As sure as the needle polar keeps,
Man sows, but the whirlwind reaps.
Oh ! ye whose insatiate lust for gain
Yet stronger grows while thy last years wane,
Though vast be the gold that your keen wits earn;
Too late, alas ! must your blind hearbs learn,
You have vainly stored those glittering heaps—
Man sows, but the whirlwind reaps.
East hold your gold while the night draws nigh,
Ye lords of the soil, till you ’neath it lie ;
Pull down your barns and yet greater build,
You have wealth from land you have never tilled,
Yet shall learn when truth to each cold heart
creep?,
Man sows, but the whirlwind reaps.
And Death is the whirlwind who’ll reap the spoil
That your schemings have won with others’ toil,
And the voice of the whirlwind sbernly cries
The treasure you won—’tis a fleeting prize,
Kor a changeless law to the letter keeps,
Man sows, but the whirlwind reaps
Gipp ilarnl.
JOHN COLLINS.
NEW GUINEA INCIDENT.
mm
y f HAT makes our
I I good King Galln-
Icifer sad ?
Sh-s-sh ! He bit hard
on the seal ring of the
fricasseed missionary at
M lunch to-day and has a
toothache.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Since the last British general election the
“Separatists” have gained seven and lost one
seat.
After his interview with the Pop 3 the
Emperor William said to King Humbert: “ I
have destroyed his illusions.”
If N.Z. had had prohibition it could have
paid off its national debt with the money spent on
drink and had £4,000,000 to the good—at least so
says Sir William Fox.
There are It) lawyers, 13 journalists, six
tenant-farmers, four doctors, four landlords, two
labourers, two publicans, and one tailor in
Parnell’s party in the Commons.
Vogel admits that a National movement of
an aggressive character is rapidly developing in
Australia, and says that Imperial Federation
could only be maintained by force
Since the death of E Iwin Levy the con-
version of the London Daily Telegraph to Glad-
stonianism is being slowly effected. The “largest
circulation,” to be kept up, must be on the winning
side.
Only three members of the N.S.W.
Upper House voted for the Payment of Members’
Bill —a lawyer, a doobor, and a veterinary surgeon
respectively. Three men who earn their living
by the use of their brains.
The Chinese difficulty has been solved in
a part of West Queensland. The Mongolians
were many in Aramac. A lccal boycott was
started, and unflinchingly stuck to. Result : Not
one Mongol in the town to-day.
N.S.W. has five times as many police-
magistrates as Victoria. In Sydney and its
suburbs it is almost altogether police-magistrates
who act; in Melbourne and its suburbs it is Jus
tices of the Peace. In this regard N.S.W. is
ahead of Victoria.
There are only two medical men in the
Queensland Legislative Council. One of these
was nominated by his patient, Sir Samuel Griffith,
when Griffith was Premier ; the other was nomi-
nated by his patient, Sir Thomas MTlwraitb, a
month ago, when Sir Thomas wa3 Premier.
“The Vagabond ’ says that “he doesn’t
believe in the narrow England of Imperial Federa-
tionists.” This is mild language for the only
Thomas, bat what we want to poinb out is that
the Australian doesn’b really care whether Eng-
land is narrow or anything eke; all he wants is
bo be rid of her, and when that is done England
can swell till her width fills the Atlantic if she
wants to.
The Panama Canal Company has already
expended millions of pounds of French capital—
representing the hard-earned savings of the
peasantry —and there is very little canal to show for
it all. To avert a panic, the Government thinks of
providing necessary funds to com pi ete a work wh icb,
according to all accoun's, can never pay a divi-
dend on the original cost. If this doisn'b turn
out to be a case of thro wing good money after
bad, it will not be anything better than robbing
the t c auntry’s right-band pccket to pay its left.
The sum sunk in the canal up to date (about fully
represents its worth when completed £42,000,000 )
Once every year, on the Qaeen’s Birthday,
the leading members of the British Ministry give
a magnificent banquet apiece which absorbs a large
piece of their official salaries for the twelve
months. The smaller mm who suffer from a
scarcity of c in have their feeds provided by con-
tract and entertain their guests at their respective
offices, bub bloated capitalists of the Salisbury
type generally get up a lavish spread at their own
houses, and try to drown in expensive wines the
memory of Irish members who are perpetually
making a row just when people most want bo be
quiet. The very insignificant members of the
Ministry, such as the Chancellor of the Duchy of
Lancaster, and the long line of political secretaries
whom nobody ever hears about, don’t give dinners
at all and are invited instead to take pro-
vender with their more elevated colleagues,
but all the members of the Government are
supposed to be either giviDg or receiving dinners,
excepting only the miserable Privy Seal, who is
invariably left out, and has to skirmish for his
food the best way he can. Why he is left out
nobody knows, but from time immemorial the
Lord Privy Seal has always had to shift for him-
self on the festive occasion when everybody else is
filled with victuals and mirth. And what makes
this insult the worse is that the Privy Seal has
absolutely nothing to do but acquire an appetite
and eat dinners. His one official duty is to hang
on to the Seal, and a monkey could do that if it
wanted to any day; and the rest of his time he
can prowl round and look at barmaids. In fact,
he is employed chiefly for the sake of his elevated
usefulness, and then his colleagues point a moral
out of bis degradation by practically insinuating
that he is not good enough to dine with. It is
playing it very low down on the unhappy Seal.
One, Halliday, an ancionfc publican of
South Australia, who had held a license for 50
years, died the other day, just after celebrating
the jubilee of his hotel. Just imagine the jubilee
of a public-house ! Hie!
FOREIGN STAMPS FOB COIAKCTIONS ! Our
new price list can be obtained on application,
Selections of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 'choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, POST FREE 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. Old collections purchased.
n. a. NINDIN «t €Q„ Box 660, Genoral Post
nffinp. SYDNEY.
Hop* for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Pathntid Art
woal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness In all Its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effected. Send for 132
paged Illustrated book oontalnlng "Essay on Deafness,’
Illustrations of the Drums, ooples of patent papers, letters
from Dootors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
laffld by these Drams, and who reoammend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON. 88 William Srasw, Walbawrne.
The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wile-
ken’s Beaconsfieid House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.T!.—Only l®" bourn from Melbourne
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerohlefebeoause
they oan get those useful artloles perfumed gratit with
grab A»l« Blessest at the Osoww Pmpdmim Co.’s
Stands in the MeEbevroe BstiMtSes> All Melbeami
li sn thi* leseb
Pamphlet, with statistics of Western Aus-
tralia, post free, from the Intercolonial In-
vestment Company, Limited, Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
In Nebraska the bridge has entirely super-
seded the gallows as an instrument of justice.
When the rope is adjusted the culprit can either
jump off or be pushed. This is real considerate.
Pamphlet, with statistics of Western Aus-
tralia, post free, from the Intercolonial In-
vestment Company, Limited, Bathurst-street,
Sydney,
JOHN BffI'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers & Partnership Ayents,
41 Bwanston Street, Melbourne,
46-page Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &0., &e.
86-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &o.
Printed list of Businesses for Sale issued Daily,
All Lists posted B ret on sppUsatioß,


/Yonf rfap crfo cs /# *> r^/-
<zf/) e- cc A? Co A / " a
£ 'p' gj
,A-y* ,3h k it - P
■'/( u I » "
Sfo# si/- op
• ;X 'L ''v lj^
s - 0/* ^ 0 atop/'
'" J~ SViffi f See^f/p/^~ / "
•AC >r/
///)-fur/f, er J9/Og
o/cC A>a? Jefe/U tie /
/oeA-s'oq /?o/~ ' '
THAT TRAM WAY-JOB.


“For Ever Wilt Thou
Love.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not very long ago I was in London, a medical
student.
In my third year I prosected ; that is, I was
engaged in preparing the bodies for the professor
to lecture on. There was a man named Caiger
who did the prosecting with me. We were
generally behindhand with our work, and often
had to be up-early in consequence of having been
up late.
One morning, towards the end of November,
my alarum awakened me while it was still quite
dark, and, after clutching that alarum and-drown-*
ing the noise beneath the bed-clothes, I stretched
myself and remembered that I had the arteries
of the axilla to prepare for that day’s lecture.
I got up, and, after contemplating the cold,
dark, foggy morning, boiled an egg and heated
some coffee over a small spirit-lamp. Warmed
internally by these, I put the first volume of
Quain’s Anatomy under my arm, my hands in
my pockets, and started off for the College at a
trot.
When I got to the College I saw a woman with
a broom who quickly disappeared into the medical
library. There was no one else about, not even the
medical beadle, whom I was rather inclined to
regard as a fixture. The place was cold and
silent. A solitary gas-lamp gave out a pale yellow
light that flickered on the stone floor.
I executed a small war dance, just to enliven
the place, and passed on to the small dissecting-
room.
There were two dissecting-rooms —the dissecting-
room, and the small dissecting-room. We pro-
sectors had the small room all to ourselves and
the corpse we were engaged on, except when the
demonstrators intruded and gave demonstrations.
I entered the dissecting-room and let the door
bang-to behind me. I had it to myself that morn-
ing, corpse and all.
I stood for a few minutes, with the “Quain” still
under my arm, examining the body stretched out
on the table, as a woman examines a fowl. It was
a fresh one, a male, brought in the day before for
us to begin the arteries on. It hadn’t been in
pickle very long and was nice and fresh with very
little fat on it.
Rejoicing over having such a fine body, I pre-
pared to get to work. I had told James—James
was the man who injected the bodies and looked
after the dissecting-rooms and retailed candles at
a high figure—that I should be early that morn-
ing, and I thought he might have got the stove
lighted, but he hadn’t; the big, square, iron stove
was as cold as the high whitewashed walls and
stone floor.
I got out my scalpels and hooks and a candle,
for it was too dark to work by daylight yet, put
on an old overcoat that I used to dissect in, and
looked around for some matches. I found an
empty match-box, but no-matches. Then I went
in search of James. I went to the steps that led
down to the vaults under the anatomy-theatre.,
and called “James!” “James” sounded start-
lingly loud in the stillness of the vaults, so I
didn’t call again, but went down the steps and
searched about for matches,
I found many things : a pile of small carpal and
tarsal bones, which James was drying with a
view to his own interests; a coffin half full df
fragments, a female body undergoing injection, a
lot of red lead, and a heap of old disse.cting-cases.,
but no matches.
Then I returned to the dissecting-room, took
my candle in my hand and wfent for the solitary
gas-lamp in the entrance-hall. Having procured
a ladder, which used to stand by the door of the
library, and which I brought along cautiously lest
the woman with the broom should come out and
find me in the act, I got a light; then, protecting
my candle most carefully from draughts, I re-
turned to the dissecting-room.
Then I placed a stool beside the table, and sat
down to work.
Wishing to place the candle so as to throw a
good light on the pectoral muscles, I stuck it in
the 'corpse's mouth; but it wouldn’t stand up-
right ; so I made a little pool of grease on the
table and stood the candle in it.
Then I hooked back the right arm into a con-
venient position, and was about to commence
taking the skin off, when it struck me that I
might as well read up a little about the cutaneous
nerves first.
In an absent-minded sort of way I took up my
“Quain,” pulled the stool in front of the cold stave,
and sat down to read with my back to the corpse.
I was just getting interested in the lateral
cutaneous nerves, holding my book in my left hand
and, through force of habit, stretching out my
right towards the stove, when suddenly I heard
behind me a noise—a most peculiar and unlooked,
for noise, too —someone spitting.
At first I only stopped reading, looked at the
stove, and considered. The noise was repeated.
Then I turned round, and—it was the corpse.
He had turned over on to his right side, and,
with some peculiar contortions of his face, was
spitting out the deposit left by my candle.
Another thing, which I remembered afterwards
but did not notice at the time, was that the candle
had disappeared. There was nothing but the dull
light of the morning.
Startled by the occurrence, I saw most vividly
in the dull light the sharp outlines of the face f
and one long skinny hand raised and moved about
in a vague uncertain manner.
He was not an old man, but the face was thin
and drawn, with sharp regular outlines ; his hand
was very long, thin, and powerful; his eyes were
dull, grey and gentle. Not an old man but a man
who had seen and felt a lot of life, and had done
much work with those long powerful hands.
I gazed at him for a moment while he contorted
and spat and wagged his hand ; and then I started
half up from my stool and said T
“I say, I’m awfully sorry I stuck that candle
in your mouth.”
The dull grey eyes were turned upon me and
the bony hand wagged deprecatingly towards me.
“It s all right,” he said, “ don’t you mind. I
understand it. It’s all right.”
I sat down again and he again contorted and
spat.
Then he turned over on to his back and lay
quiet as though he were exhausted.
I gripped hold of the stool and sat still watching
him. I gripped that stool tight with a nervous
-strain of uncertainty.
Then I saw the face slowly turned to the right,
and I saw the fingers of the right hand moving.
The eyes were fixed on the hooks with which I
had fastened back the arm.
I made a movement as though to rise, sat still
again, hesitated, and then said :
“Shall I take those hooks out?”
“No. You put them there. Leave them
alone,” he said, still looking at the hooks. “ It’s
all right.”
Then he turned his head round again, and lay
still, and, after a pause which seemed ever so long,
and during which I heard the clock on the wall
over the door ticking, ticking, ticking, and during
“FOR EVER WILT THOU LOVE.”
which I kept my eyes fixed on his upturned face,
I said :
“It’s cold, isn’t it?”
He raised his head, and looked at me.
“ Yes,” he said, “it’s cold.”
I tightened my grip on the stool, and felt a
peculiar sensation all over my head. I don't
know what it was, but maybe my hair was stand-
ing up.
“ James didn’t light the stove.”
The dull grey eyes looked at me with a peculiar
expression, and he said :
“No,” and then, after a pause, he added, “But
it makes no difference.”
“Yes, it does,” I said. “If he’d lighted it, it
wouldn’t be cold.”
“/should be cold,” said the corpse.
“Yes,” 1 said, “you’d be cold, but I don’t
think/ should.”
“ It makes no difference,” said the corpse.
“ It makes no difference to you but it does to
me.”
“ Why to you and not to me?”
“ You’re not like me.”
“ Not like you ! ” said the corpse, raising itself
up a little and looking at me more intently,
“ why not like you ? There is a difference, but
it is very little.”
The dull grey eyes fascinated me. I seemed to
be getting to understand them. I leant forward
and was some time before I could make myself ask :
“ What were you before you became a corpse ? ”
“ What was I ? What lam now. But I un-
derstand you. I know what you mean. I was
many things.”
“ What was one, for example ? ” said I, leaning
still more forward.
“ A medical student.”
The peculiar sensation over my head increased
suddenly, and I gradually assumed an upright
position.
Then there was a pause, during which I sat
bolt upright, and the grey eyes looked at me with
a kindly expression. Then, after gasping a little,
I said: —
“ I say, do yoti know lots of things, now you’re
a corpse ? ”
His head moved slowly to and fro, and he
said :
“ Not much more than when I was alive. It
doesn’t make much difference. I know some
things. I used to look for a great change, but it
didn’t come. Great changes don’t come in men’s
lives. We just go on, slowly on, onward. Dying
didn’t make any more difference to me than being
born.”
“ Dying didn’t make any more difference to you
than being born ! Why, were you anything before
you were born ? ”
The corpse raised itself on its left elbow and
looked fixedly at me.
“ Weren’t you anything before you were born ?
Won’t you be anything after you’re dead ? ”
I looked at him vacantly for a moment, and
then said :
“ I really don’t know. I don’t remember any-
thing before I was born. ”
“Yes, you do,” said the corpse; “you don’t
know it. I didn’t understand it when I was alive.
I did sometimes seem to half know something.
Your whole life now is built up on what you were
before you were born. And your future will be
built up on what you are making for yourself
now We just go on rising on the past that we
are always adding to. Realising this, it often
seems strange to me that men should think they
had no existence before they were born, and that
they will have no existence after death. Where
do they think they come from ? What do they
think is going to become of them ? Of course I
didn’t think much about it when I was alive, and
most men find it difficult to understand how they
got on when they didn’t know what they know
now.”
“Yes,” I said, “I suppose so.”
Then there was a pause. After a little I said :
“Isay, did you—did you ever live before last
time? Will you ever live again after —at any
time ?”
The corpse looked at me suddenly, and said,
“ Live again ! What for ?”
I said I really didn’t know, and, after loqk-
ing at me with a curious sort of expression
for a few moments, his head sank back, and
the white face looked upwards.at the ceiling.
Then there was silence. I felt relieved. Again I
heard the clock on the wall ticking; and gradually
there grew up about myself and the corpse a some-
thing that was like sympathy, a knowledge that
we were on the same road, moving on towards
the same end. At last I said :
“Were you successful in life? Did you make a
name ? E)id you make money ? Did you satisfy
your ambition?”
The corpse slowly turned his head, and looked
at me. Then he said :
“I did, what all men do, the work of my life.
I didn’t make a name, and if I had I should have
done no more than other men. Men care about
the name, not about you. Make a name and you
give men something to titivate their selfishness
with, and you may go to the Devil, and, as a
matter of fact, you generally do. If you do great
work you leave something that will breed good
But, in order to leave something th at will breed good
it is not necessary to produce great works. Tin r
are men who write great books, and men whc
have great books written about them. There at e
great artists and scientists, and there are men who
lead good lives. f
“ I didn’t make money. If I had I don’t sup
pose I should have been as happy as 1 was. Bub
it doesn’t seem to me to make much difference.
The thing is that they’re different there arc
rich men and men who aren’t rich —they are dif-
ferent. I wasn’t rich.
“ T don’t know what particular ambition I had.
I wanted most things at times. I wanted women.
I wanted strength. I wanted money. 1 wanted
brains and force of will. I wanted to sing beauti-
ful songs, to do great work, to sculpture a lost soul,
to work mathematics and mechanics.
“ And while I wanted all these things and did
nothing towards getting them, I did something—
I grew.”
“ Did you ever love anyone ?”
“ I thought I lovedseveral times, and generally
brought unhappiness on the object of my affec-
tions. But I did love. Yes, I think I did. I
found a woman who raised good feelings in me,
whose presence gave life to the best part of me,
and she was my wife. ”
“ And you loved ; were often very, very near
to one another ? ”
“Yes, cold and stretched out dead as I am, I
loved, was full of warmth and life. Don’t think it
■strange. Go and look at the rows of bodies
stretched out in the dissecting-room and you will
see the power of life and love in them still. I n
the poor, cold, withered bodies you can see tin-
past desires, passions, struggles, and in all the
straining onward And they are not dead. Look
closely at them and you will feel it. You can
talk with them just as you talk with me now.
Their functions have struggled on to fulfilment,
and now they are at rest. And you, love truly
that your love may rest, and when you lie out cojd
and stark like them ‘for ever wilt thou love and
she be fair.’ There, I cannot tell you much more.
You are weary of following me already.”
“ I know. I feel it. But tell me—for lam
troubled often by the fear of poverty—did you
endure poverty? Is it the hell it seems to those
upon its brink ? ”
“We were neyer rich. We were never stricken
with poverty. We were always poor; and we were
happy.”
“ Is the woman you loved dead ? ”
“She died before I did. She died. I lived,
but ”
The sound of approaching footsteps was heard
in the corridor; the corpse stopped. I saw its
face turned to the left. Its eyes were fixed in-
tently on the door. Then the hand was raised,
and the face turned towards me again. The grey
eyes looked gently at me. •
“They are coming,” he said. “It is ended.
Do not forget what I have told you of my heart —
my life. But to them —silence. In your heart
remember. ”
“ But the woman you loved,” I cried, “ tell me
of her ? She died before you, and you lived. Can
you not tell me what I ask? She did not die?
Tell me she did not die.”
The head dropped back upon the table, the
hand fell down by his side. 1 was conscious that
the morning light was increasing suddenly, and,
as it grew, I saw the face becoming the face of a
dead man—fixed, lifeless. Only the soft grey
eyes still looked at me.
I called my last words in his ear.
“ She did not die ?”
No answer came. Suddenly the eyes were dry,
shrunken, dead; and then beside him was my
candle making a big pool of grease upon the table.
“I say, Adams, we’re awfully late,” said
Caiger, as he entered hurriedly with his dissect-
ing-case in his hand.
“ Yes,” I said, “let us get to work.”
H. B. ADAMS.
The Grand Old Man.
(MELBOURNE POLICE COURT STORY.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
A bent and snowy-bearded man,
Who long had passed the decent span
Of life which Scripture gives to men
(We think it’s three score years and ten),
Addressed a “ beak ” in Melbourne town’,
And said : “ My name is Billy Brown,
I’ve just come up from Warrnambool
To seek a chap I knew at school;
My ancient pal I could not find, 4
And, seeing that the law’s unkind,
I journeyed to the watch-house lest
I might be placed beneath arrest:
For when a creature, poor and aged,
Is in a midnight walk engaged,
Without a home, or friends, or ‘ tin’—
The * bobbies ’ mostly run him in. ”
“ What will you do?” enquired the beak.
The Patriarch, in accents weak,
Said : “ Make my way to Warrnambool—
I’m not too old to use a tool;
And in a week, by working late,
I earn five shillings—sometimes eight.”
• 1 But we’ve some nice asylums here
The winter of your days to cheer !”
“No, no,” the old ’un shook his head,
“ I’d rather work until I’m dead.
Or Fortune’s smile, or Fortune’s frown,
Is all the same to Billy Brown.”
“ Of reaching Warrnambool, you talk—
How will you do it ?” “ I shall walk, ”
Replied the Patriarch. Yes, walk;
Nor could the Beak his purpose baulk.
His fare by boat that hero old
Refused, and out of Court he strolled
With half-a-crown (’twas all he took,
Except, as just explained, his hook).
May pleasant weather (not too cool)
Attend Bill Brown to Warrnambool,
And when —e’en now he’s seventy-se/en—
He walks from Warrnambool to heaven.


Struck it at Last
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
WAS away in
the hot North
at red Christ-
mas time,
When the Cape
and the Gil-
bert were just
in their
prime,
When the tuc-
ker was going
at three bob a
pound,
And the ihetal
was getting
like spuds
from the
ground;
Some fellows were rooting it by the pound-weight
From out of the pot-hole or crevice of slate,
From under the boulders or “ drop of the bar,”
And nothioguvas drunk but hot “ Fiery Star.”
The cradles were going like ships in a gale,
And the wash pebbles fell on the iron-like hail,
And the slides were a sight as the hopper came off
When the last puddled shovelful came from the
trough, >
The fiddlers and sluicers were going like steam
Till the yellow creak looked like a little Gulf-
stream,
And the great heaps of headings were lying around
JUst as if a giant ploughshare had furrowed the
ground.
Yet, though most of the boys got it heavy and
thick,
There were still some poor devils half -living on tick.
But this happens always, ’tis some fellows’ doom,
They couldn’t get gold in a banker’s strong-room,
And to see these poor hatters just poking about
Now into a pothole and next minute out,
Now washing a dish with disconsolate gaze,
For the devil’s the colour they ever could raise.
But, of all the bad-luck men you ever did see,
The king of the lot was poor iPaddy M'Grae;
He beat all the others hands*down out and out,
For the gold seemed to travel when he w r as about.
It never did matter what chances he got,
His presence denoted a duffered-out spot;
The door of his Fortune ne’er lifted its latch,
For he never knew more than a pennyweight
patch ;
Yet for all the rough luck that on Paddy’s head fell
His light-hearted spirit it never could quell,
Though his name grew a proverb, like “ killing a
cat,”
He never responded in anger for that;
But at night round the camp-fire his brisk cheery
laugh
Rang jovial and loud ’mid the jest and the chaff ;
Such a physic for quarrels you never did see
As the voice and the presence of Paddy M'Gee.
And in spite of bad fortune his lip never dropped,
And the boys they took care if his tucker was
stopped;
He never was seen at the bar on the spree,
For he hadn’t the metal, poor Paddy M‘Gee,
And if ever a fellow the fever had got
You may bet he was first to be there—like a shot;
And his kindly voice worked on the sick like a
spell,
And soon they were working quite jolly and well.
0 ! these were the times when the gold was about,
And around in the gorges the fellows were out;
There were rushes and rushings for week after
week
To the hillside or river-beach, gully or creek ;
There were duffers, and stringers, and some that
were right;
There were jumpings and peggings by day and by
night,
But of all the new rushes none equalled the show
Of the flying prospector—old Galloping Joe.
J Twas away o’er the Crown, by the Tabletop blow,
That Joseph had hit on his “ jeweller’s ” show ;
One evening by sundown he happened chat way
At the close of a wearisome fossicking day,
As tired and thirsted he stayed for a drink,
He saw the rich metal in crevice and chink,
And it ope’d to his mind such a visional spree
That he all but forgot his friend Paddy M'Gee.
“HALF WAT TO THE CAMP, BY THE LIGHT OF
THE MOON.”
For once in the ranges—a twelvemonth ago—
When down with the fever, despondent and low,
Just the ghost of a digger a-dodging the ground—
Poor Paddy M'Gee, like an angel, came round.
Anr) away o’er the mountains with never a track
bix milei did he carry old Joe on his back
io the Big Camp, and there both by day and by
night
Did he physic and nurse him and fix him alright,
And Joseph— to swearing he never was loath —
Came out with the boss of a Ruddygore oath,
That the next time he struck it, whene'er it might
be,
He would work off his debt to poor Paddy M‘Gee ;
And now to his credit—’tis joyfully said
That amid all the projects that came in his head,
And despite the fell promptings of personal greed,
He pegged off a claim for the friend of his need.
Then away up the gully he travelled, and soon
He was half-way to camp—by the light of the
moon,
And his haste was so great that he didn’t peg more,
A or notice the pot-holes of someone before.
And he went o’er the range, struck an old track he
knew
led by the shaft, and a paddock or two
Where Jerry the Hatter and big German Max
W ere murdered and ate by the Einesleigh blacks.
And he scurried unthinkingly on,
A n de the radiant m xmb earns fell rigid and wan
Ga the desolate shafc, and the gam’s ghostly
white— ° J
Well, Joseph the sailor was timid that night,
or he knew that strange groanings were heard
now and then,
And, of course, from the sprites of the two mur-
dered men,
And the yarns of the camp-fire occurred to his
mind—
You may bet he was glad when the spot was
behind.
He would travel alone through the wild desert
track,
Nor feared he the lurking and murderous black ;
He would face the wild bullock in yard or in bush,
He would breast the flood's current and conquer
its rush;
In the brawl, at the shanty, he held a great name,
In the camp he was known to be thoroughly game,
But—‘a cockroach has frightened the greatest of
kings—
And Joe drew the line at intangible things.
And now and again he looked timidly back,
As if thinking the spirits were dodging his track,
And the dingo s, the mopehawk s, the curlew s
shrill scream
Were hashed in the whirl of his galloping brain
hor he fancied that just as he passed the shaft by
I here came to his ear a half-dead human cry,
was so full of his lucky day’s tramp
lhat he all but forgot it on reaching the camp.
And straightway he made for the tent in the bend
lo ease off his mind to his fossicking friend ;
,• 110 light ! and the b'anket was bare,
How Joseph did wonder that Pat wasn’t there :
' He s up at the big camp, just doing a blow,
o i 1 ? 1 " 6 s ca t c h him,” says Galloping Joe ;
aii u° ' , ien there the fire was burnt dim,
All hands at the shanty—and Joseph turned in.
IN ext morning at daybreak he searched the camp
round,
But I addy had vanished and could not be found ;
All up the old gullies, by paddock or hole,
He had not been seen all the day by a soul ;
Next off to the reefers away on the “ Nest ”
The red sun is sinking, Joe still on the quest,
And at night he is round every camp he can see,
But no trace and no tidings of Paddy M‘Gee.
A lost man ! A lost man ! the cry has gone out,
Gorge, gully, and hillside, re-echo the shout,
And quickly the boys come, their mustering tramp
Rolls up the long flat to the meet at “the camp,”
Ihe cradle is silent, deserted the claim,
Dach gully sends down its unwonted clear stream;
a Abhands to the search,” is the Galloper’s plan,
And five hundred-stout diggers respond to a man.
Away they have gone, over valley and hill,
North, South, East, and West, they have gone
with a will;
Away up by the fissured conglomerate pass,
Which the summer sun stares on with visage of
brass;
Down oyer the flats, where the glaring white sand
Marks the broad, ghostly river-bed’s trail through
the land,
Away by the rock-chasmed haunt of the black,
And never a sign of the lost digger’s track.
They have hunted the workings for miles all
around,
Explored all the drives in the duffered-out ground,
Every water-hole searched, where a kitten might
drown,
And the river-bed traversed for tracks up and
down.
Another day’s ending—yet still on the tramp
Are horsemen and footmen from every far camp.
But as yet. the three rifle shots never resound
That the signal’s to be if the lost one is found.
And M all the keen trackers who answered the call,
Old Galloping Joseph—the keenest of all—
ll rom daylight till dark never ceased in his quest,
And he covered more ground than did two of the
rest,
And he scoured all the hills near the place of his
find—
For the gold and his friend were mixed up in his
mind,
And perhaps he was dubious that some of the boys
Might chance on his gully, and so make a noise.
In the hot afternoon of the third weary day
Joe finds himself round by that very same way—
It boots not the motive or instinct that led—
He is there at the gap by his own gully’s head,
Now stopping, by starts, with his ears straining
round,
Now eagerly scanning each inch of th’e ground
In doubt whether still to go forward —or ba^k,
When lo ! he has stumbled across a man’s track.
Where the embryo watercourse winds in and out
Joe eagerly follows the foot track about,
Ihrough devious courses, wherever it goes,
Down, down, till the gully a little vale grows ;
Where tis faint he has stooped on his knees and his
hands,
And he creeps o’er a bar where the gully expands
lo a basin. Now quickly he starts to his legs
I or lo ! he has come on two freshly cut pegs !
Two pegs ! how his heart is away with a bound :
borne fellow’s been here and a-sprinsrinsr mv
ground,”
Thought Joseph; “for here are his pot-holes, I see;
lis one of the searchers, who else can it be ?
No ! here are his tools, only wanting the pick—
By G—d ! they are Paddy V’ arid now in a nick,
As the cartridges lessen by three at his waist;
Brack! Crack! Crack! goes the snider of Joe
in his haste.
And now, as he bends to the freshening trail,
Come the answering shots from the mountain and
vale:
H heads in the spur, near the Crown passes by,
Then it slews for the haunted shaft straight as a
die ;
Now he’s helped in his task by a hundred keen
eyes,
For the loud fusliade on the buoyant air flies,
And quickly ’tis followed right down to the goal—
To the ill-omened place called the “ Murdering
Hole.'’
Now eagerly up to the caving shaft’s verge
Half a hundred keen trackers impulsively surge,
“ -is he there ?” is the cry from the outermost ring.
Comes the answer, “ Keep back, or the shaft will
cave in !”
Now a horseman is off to the camp for a rope—
As the ghost of a moan bids the rescuers hope.
Now up goes the derrick—an ironbark fork—
And Galloping -Toe starts his perilous work.
‘ Hurrah ! boys, I've got him alive !” from below
Comes the joy-giving shout of old Galloping Joe.
' Heave up—but heave gently!” A score of strong
hands
Man the rope—how it strains as its double freight
lands !
The burden all ghastly, clay covered, and stained,
lout the heaving breast telling that life yet re-
mained.
“ Water, water !” yells Joe. “ Wash the blood off!
Look slick !
Fetch the twin-sapling litter ! For God’s sake, be
quick 1”
There is joy in the camp that the lost one ia
found—
That for this time, at least, he has cheated the
ground.
How the shanties will thrive with all hands on the
spree
For the safe resurrection of Paddy M‘Gee 1
He is right in the hands of old Galloping Joe,
Aho will yet pull him through—if recovery’s slow.
Comes the morrow—Pat’s shave is a tale that is
told
At the magical shake of the wand of King Gold.
A fortnight has gone in the fossicker's tent —
The hope of the watcher now came and now went,
For the fever on Paddy h id la'n a strong grip,
But his plucky heart soon had it under the whip;
His once burly frame has gone down in the fray,
The stout limb is fragile and wasted away,
But the Terror is vanquished, the climax is passed,
And the first lucid words come : “ I’ve struck it
at last !” i
Roll up ! there’s a rush to the Tabletop blow,
But the cry is unheeded by Galloping Joe,
Though he thinks they have hit on the place of
his find,
Yet it brings not unrest to his equable mind,
For he knows of a spot—’tis the “Murdering
Hole ”
He has seen the rich quartz, known to never a
soul
But himself and his new mate —who else can it be
But the kind-hearted fossicker, Paddy M‘Gee ?
Now the story round every encampment has
spread,
How Paddy’s hard luck to his fortune had led,
How, guided by—something—well, call it good
chance—
He had stooped for a drink, when the gold met
his glance;
How he rushed in his pegs—with his fortune half
daft—
How he struck for the camp by the Hatter’s old
shaft.
How his ill-seeming fortune, to set off its dole,
Led his steps in the dark to the “Murdering
Hole,”
“AND WELL MAY THE MIND OF THE DIGGER
BE CRAZED ”
How the malice of Fate, for a wonder, subsides,
Lets him sixty feet down without grazing the
sides,
And the shaft’s bottom, padded with loose,
springy dirt,
Takes Paddy's impression, but gives him small
hurt.
There he is, in the midst of the dank, slimy logs,
In his ear is the guttural music of frogs,
And he lies in a swoon. O, good God! what a
plight—
Down the “ Murdering Shaft ” for the long,
dreary night!
’Tis midnight—the moon’s edge across the shaft
peeps;
Now downwards by inches it furtively creeps,
Till the full ghostly orb, from the deep blue o’er-
head
Looks full in the face of the man seeming dead;
But he heeds not its passing. Now up the dark
sides, *
Like a good angel flitting, it stealthily glides,
But it clings round the verge—as a good angel
may—
Till the red sun’s uprisen—then stealeth away.
High noontide, now stareth the vertical sun
On a face that no longer is frigid and wan,
1 or the beam brought a blessing as soon as it came,
And awakes the still life in the prone, stricken
frame.
And the fervour of hope to the pris’ner it brings—
How the impulse of life to humanity clings !
Now he’s standing erect as the life-giving ray
Lights the cavernous side in its passage away.
He is standing bemudded, blood-spattered and
dazed —
And well may the mind of the digger be craved —
For the square that was framed by the mirk and
the mould*
Shines full on a face of white quartz and rich gold.
The casing-wall opening and ready to drop,
Had slipped with the air-rush that flew from the
top
In Paddy’s descent. Not above nor below
Hid ever gold-seeker behold such a show.
"THE PRIS'NER COMMENCES A CLIMB FOR EIS
LIFE."
What words can express all that passed through
his mind,
Now projects for climbing—now thoughts of his
find.
\\ hat boots it that Fortune should lavish her store
it delusive her favours ? No! life was worth more.
IS ow exhuming the logs from his dank prison floor—
liow the labour brings out the big drops from each
pore—
Now they’re slowly up-ended—now out with his
knife,
And the pris’ner commences a climb for his life.
ri 0r ,s ,', x on 8' dragging hours he thus painfully toils,
•*' Qr “he shaft’s flaky sides still his hard labour
foils.
’Tis now after sunset; halfway to the top
He has gouged out his footholds, then he comes to
a stop.
Many long wistful looks does he bend up the
shaft—
For the knife that befriends him is worn to the
haft.
His foothold is slipping—o God ! what a fall !
Just the moment that Joe passes by within call.
Heaven help him, his chances for ever are past,
Hard fortune has finished poor Paddy at last,
bhe has dogged his poor shadow, with counten-
ance ill—
For surely her malice has now got its fill—
bhe has beamed on his fortunes one dazzling ray
And now in her venom she takes it away.
bye to you, Paddy ! sure never a soul
Will venture anear to the “Murdering Hole.”
The years have gone by as a tale that is told,
In the North there’s an embryo “ City of Gold ” ;
Its .ounders have vanished—but two of them left—
its alluvial treasures have long since been reft,
Hut its wealth now consists in the gold from the
rock,
And its feverish pulse is the stamper’s dull shock,
And the monarchs of all the rich mines that von
see
Are old Galloping Joseph and Paddy M‘Gee.
Yet for all the bright changes that come to their
lot,
The olden-time struggles are never forgot;
\ ( ralloper loves an occasional spree,
And the erstwhile poor Paddy is now a J.P.,
Yet unaltered for all that such dignity brings,
le has set up his people in Ireland like kings,
And he loves to remember the days that are past—
How for all his hard fortune, “He Struck it at
Last.
GAMBASINO.
Launceston, Tasmania.


Old Pardon, the Son of
Reprieve.
A RACING RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You never heard tell of the story ?
Well, now, I can hardly believe !
Never heard of the honour and glory
Of Pardon, the son of Reprieve ?
But maybe you’re only a Johnnie
As don’t know a horse from a hoe ?
Well, well, don’t get angry, my sonny,
But, really, a young ’un should know.
I ’ll tell you the story of Pardon—
I’ve got the old horse by me yet,
And I give him the run of the garden,
Though the inissus does grumble and fret
When he chaws up the roses an’ daisies
Or rolls on the beds when they’re new 5
But some slight amusement, I say, is
No more than is justly his due.
They bred him out back on “ the Never,”
His mother was Mameluke breed.
To the front and then stay there—was ever
The root of the Mameluke creed.
He seemed to inherit their wiry
Strong frames, and their pluck to receive-
As hard as a flint and as fiery
Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
We ran him at many a meeting
At crossing and gully and town,
And nothing could give him a beating—
At least when our money was down.
Por weight wouldn’t stop him, nor distance ;
Nor odds, though the others were fast,
He’d race with a dogged persistence,
And wear them all down at the last.
At the Turon the Yattendon filly
Led by lengths at the mile and-a-half,
And we all began to look silly
While her crowd were starting to laugh;
But the old horse came faster and faster,
His pluck told its tale, and his strength,
He gained on her, caught her, and passed her,
And won it, hands-down, by a length.
And then we swooped down on Menindie
To run for the President’s Cup—
That s a sweet little township—a shindy
To them is board, lodging, and sup.
Eye-openers they are, and their system
Is never to suffer defeat ;
It’s “ win, tie, or wraDgle”—to best ’em,
You must lose ’em, or ePe it’s “ dead heat.”
We strolled down the township and found ’em
At drinking and gaming and play,
If they had any sorrows they drowned ’em,
And betting was soon under way.
Their horses were good ’uns and fit ’uns,
There was plenty of cash in the town ;
They backed their own horses like Britons,
And Lord ! how we rattled it down !
With gladness we thought of the morrow,
We counted our wagers with glee,
A simile homely to borrow—
“ There was plenty of milk in our tea.”
You see we were green ; and we never
Had even a thought of foul play,
Though we well might have known that the clever
Division would “ put us away.”
Experience “ docet,” they tell us,
At least, so I’ve frequently heard,
But, “dosing” or “stuffing,” those fellows
Were up to each move on the board ;
They got to his stall—it is sinful
To think what such villains would do—
And they gave him a regular skinful
Of barley—green barley—to chew.
He munched it all night, and we found him
Next morning as full as a hog—
The girths wouldn’t nearly meet round him,
He looked like Jim Smiley his frog;
We saw we were done like a dinner—
The odds were a thousand to' one
Against Pardon turning up winner,
’Twas cruel to ask him to run.
We got to the court e with our troubles,
A crestfallen couple were we ;
And we heard the books calling the doubh s
A roar like the surf of the tea ;
And over the tumult and louder
Rang “ Any price Pardon, I lay !”
Says Jimmy, “The children of Judah
Are out on the warpath to day.”
Three miles in three heats Ah, my sonny,
The horses in those days were stout,
They had to run well to earn money,
I don’t see such horses about.
Your six-furlong vermin that scamper
Half-a-mile with their feather-weight up,
They wouldn’t earn much of their damper
In a race like the President’s Oup.
The first heat was soon set a-going,
The Dancer went off to the front;
The Don on his quarters was showing,
With Pardon right out of the hunt,
He rolled and he weltered and wallowed,
You’d kick your hat faster, I’ll bet.
They finished all bunched and he followed
All lathered and dripping with sweat.
But troubles came thicker upon us,
For while we were rubbing him dry
The stewards came over to warn us—
“We hear you are running a bye !
If Pardon don’t spiel like damnation
And win the next heat—if he can,
He’ll earn a disqualification,
Just think over that, now, me mahn 1”
Oar money all gone and our credit,
Our horse couldn't gallop a yard,
And then people thought that we did it !
It really was terribly hard.
We were objects of mirth and derision
To the folk in the lawn and the stand,
And the yells of the clever division
Any price, Par Jon !” were grand.
We still had a chance for the money,
I wo heats still remained to b ? won,
If both fell to us —why, my sonny,
The clever division were done
And Pardon was better, we reckoned,
His sickness was passing a way,
So he went to the post for the second
And principal heat of the day.
They’re off ! and away with a rattle,
Lil<p dogs from the leashes let slip,
And right at the back of the battle
He hung to them under the whip.
They led him ten lengths at the bushes,
The jockey sat down for a call,
And then while the multitude hushes
I think you’d hav3 heard a pin fall.
We saw the blue jacket was gaining,
We saw his old mouth open wide,
At the bit he was reefing and s braining,
And crawling up close every stride.
The field were at sixes and sevens,
Lhe pace at the first had been fasb,
And hope seemed to drop from the heavens,
Tor Pardon was coming at last.
And how did he come ! It was splendid ;
He gained on them j ards every bound,
Stretching out like a greyhound extended,
His girth laid right down on the ground.
A shimmer of silk in the cedars
As into the running they wheeled,
And out flashed the whips on the leaders,
For Pardon had collared the field.
Then right through the ruck he came sailing,
I knew that the battle was won—
The son of Haphazard was failing,
The Yattendon filly was done ;
He cub down the Don and the Dancer,
He raced clean away from the mare—
He sin front 1 Catch him now if you can, sir !
And up went my hat in the air !
Then loud from the lawn and the garden
Hose offers of “ Ten to one on! ”
“ Who’ll bet on the field ? I back Pardon ! ”
No use, all the money was gone.
He came for the third heat light-hearted,
A-jumping and dancing about,
Wuile the obhers were done ere they started,
Crestfallen, and tired, and worn out.
He won it, and ran it much faster
Than even the first, I believe—
Oh, he was the daddy, the master !
Was Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
He showed ’em the method to travel
The boy sab as still as a stone—
They never could see him for gravel;
He came in hard-held, and alone.
• •
Bub he’s old, and his eyes are grown hollow,
Like me with my thaich of the snow ;
When he dies, then I hope I may follow,
And go where the racehorses go.
I don’t want no harping nor singing,
Such things with my style don’t agree ;
Where the hoofs of the horses are ringing
There’s music sufficient for me.
And I feel that the thoroughbred horses
After death rise again and begin
Fresh racing on far-away courses,
And p'raps they might let me slip in.
It would look rather well the race-card on
Mongsb Cherubs, and Seraphs, and things,
“Angel Harrison’s black gelding Pardon,
Blue halo, white body and wings.”
And if they have racing hereafter
(And who is to say they will not?),
When the cheers and the shouting and laughter
Proclaim that the batble grows hot;
As they come down the racecourse a-steering,
He’ll rush to the front, I believe;
A nd you’ll hear the white angels a-cheering
For Pardon, the son of Reprieve.
TTHE BANJO.
Nasty Remarks.
(MANY ORIGINAL AND SOME TRUE.)
Nothing comes of those who ivet.
To the clergy—“ The rich ye have always
with ye.” J
“Any man can make mcney.” Any
woman can spend money.
Banqueting the successful man is like re-
gi'ding a pawnbrokers sign.
Blessed are the poor, for they shall inherit
the earth. Yes, six feet of the ea th.
In obtaining divorces always employ the
same lawyer. Th are’s a reduction on a quantity.
Purgatory is the pLco where you wid m set
the middle-classes Then purgatory must b 1 htlh
A “lady-help” is a single w iu.n who
helps herself to her mistress's shoe--. This Leeds
toinking over.
“ The kiss is a prolific means of spreading
disease.” Ye 3, there are more wi lows thaa
widowers about.
Men who buy women with diimmds get
them cheapest in the loiog run. Diamonds are
cheaper than piece 3 of your heart.
Women are of two kinds, angelically g >od
° r T infernally bad. There is no medium sort.
When they are good they are too good for this
world, and when they are bad they ought to be
sent out of it,
Our Chinese Ancestor.
BY ARTHUR GAYLL.
“ Long after palieolithic man had passed
away, a Chinese junk burst into these silent seas,
witli youth at the prow and pleasure at the helm,
to the sound of the inspiiing tom-tom. Old
legends tell how the grisly apparition of these ad-
venturous children of the Sun affrighted our
peaceful Southern Ocean as it passed on its
mysterious way. . . . The enterprising navi-
gator of that pre-historic junk, scanning the
future with dim prophetic eye, saw that Australia
had better be left for some other active persons to
do the rough work of colonisation ; and after that
his bland and patient Celestial descendents might
come along without ruffling an eyelash, and scoop
“JUBILATING!—IN A JUNK!”
the whole institution like the merest fan tan
pool .’’—Vide Bulletin “History of Botany
Bay”;—
Touch the melancholy tom-tom
To a wild and weird refrain—
Let the brazen gongs and conches
Swell the bold historic strain.
Tell the legend, marrow-curdling,
Of that dim, phantasmal skunk
Who burst through the Silent Ocean
Jubilating !—in a junk !
How that cheerful apparition,
, With his pig-tail on his head,
Scared the sleeping Austral Beauty
Till the girl got up and fled.
Nob with odour-wafts of Araby,
Clinging to his silken sails,
Did he fool round in his cruises,
As we read in other tales.
“BUILD A STATUE—OR A TOMBSTONE”
Swooped he not about the planet
In a picturesque galleon,
Or a shell-like shallop, guided
By the echo of a tune.
Not much ! No ! That navigator
Knew no tommv-rob like this—
This disgusting Chinese person
Smelt far otherwise, we wis.
Sloops there were not, neither shallops—
As we said before, this skunk
(Dim, phantasmal, we described him)
Jubilated in a junk.
With a hideous crash of cymbals,
Tom-tom music, wild and weird,
This grey pre-historic horror
Came, and saw, and —disappeared,
Like an Afreet, or a nightmare
Born of fell back-blocks champagne,
lie just came and raised the devil,
Turned—and sailed away again.
Sped into the purple distance
With his sails of dungaree—
With his tom-toms and his fragrant
Odours, not of Araby.
As regards the Austral Beauty,
We may mention that the girl,
When the spectre burst upon her,
Rose, and lit out with a skirl.
Lit out o er the dim horizon
Where the wattle-blossom waves
[Bard who couldn’t work that line in
Might as well be digging graves.—En. B.]
Skipped right out! —indeed, this spectre
Might make stronger people wince.
[We may remark the Austral Beauty
Has been missing ever since.— Ed! B.]
So he came and so he vanished—
So the misty legends run—
Up the red track of the sunrise
To the Offspring of the Sun.
Why he came, and why departed,
Why he ever lived or died,
Why he wasn’t changed in childhood,
We could nob tell if we tried.
Who his father was, or mother—
If he was an orphan boy—
If some swivel-eyed young person
Viewed him as her pride and joy—
If he proudly scorned the poll-tax
This we know nob, neither care—
Not to be deceitful persons
We admit we weren’t there.
It may be some Joss, pot-bellied,
Yanked him to the Golden Shore
By his pig-tail—all we know is
He came back here never more.
Years have passed, and now we scoop him
In the scuppers of our rhyme,
And we send him fumigated
Down the corridors of Time.
With a dainty touch we spit him
In the forceps of our verse—
[Whatsoever fate his crimes brought
Couldn’t possibly be worse.—Ed. B ]
In the coming time, when slant eyed,
Pig-tailed heathens populate
This the region he discovered
Holding high posts in the State,
Then some yellow Dan. O’Connor,
Or some slant-eyed Burdett Smith,
Will remember him with honour
And resuscitate this myth.
Build a statue —or a tombstone
To perpetuate his fame,
With an epitaph regretting
That they didn’t know his name.
And a carven bas-relievo
Whereon the phantasmal skunk
Will be pictured jubilating’
In his joy—likewise the jnuk.


THE BITERS BITTEN.
This is good Father Gilhooley whose chief delight is
in pious meditation and prayer—he being the last man you
would pick out as likely to enjoy a convivial evening.
And yet, would you believe it? three of his friends formed a
syndicate to get him what they vulgarly termed “on.” “Let’s ask him
to dinner and have another chap or two in.”
The invitation sent. “Ha! doubtless they desire
the presence of one of my holy calling among them as a
wholesome check upon their hilarity. Yes, I will go to
this dinner. It is my duty!”
The dinner consists mostly of something to drink, and Father G., to the delight of all, keeps his end up.
As the dinner progresses somebody goes under the table, but it isn’t Father Gilhooley.
lour other of the revellers sink to rise no more. Father G., still on deck “We two will
make a night of it,” sez he.
Never mind,”isaid Father G,, to the only other survivor, “Two’s company— Three's a crowd.
"What! gone so soon! Hah! I thoughL we were going to have quite a
nice little evening together,” said Father G., at 3.30 a.m.. as he helped the last of
the conspirator to bed.




Supplement to "The Bulletin” (Sydney, N.S.W.) Christmas, 1888.


"BULLETIN," Typ., SYDNEY.
' Jumps’ and ‘Jim-Jams ': What Mr. Brown saw last Christmas.




~fENPl7yTi c> f /
WtjERF %
v '
H o '"' -fv|£
9
Wvjx <vjE ■
Welu ILI '
lh —" *
&Veu- 111 c— — ! f t
She Searched His Pockets—He Tried to Search Her’s.


A Song of Sleep.
[CENTENNIAL NIGHT.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
** And the moon was full.” — Hours o'Arthur,
The light so long, the heat so heavy,
The day so deep,
Laid on my strength and soul great levy—
I fain would sleep :
Far ’neath the West, the sun there sinking,
The skies doth steep,
Deep with the blood he hath been drinking
From wounds that weep
Afresh each day beneath His touching,
As He doth leap
Still forth, the darkness follows smutching
His robes as weep.
Like oorpselight o’er a charnel playing,
A feast we keep ;
And men are dancing, bones decaying t
The Bast's asleep;
Past still breathing strong arici baneful,’
|. Aye slumbers deep ; ,
The Future, flushed with potence painful,’
Stirs in its sleep.
Now is the dream that seems a waking
Within that sleep;
A vivid view, a cry, a quaking,
Then rest more deep.
Were not this flash of life fallacious,
Exchange most cheap,
For the immortal gloom and gracious,
Of perfect sleep ?
I weet nor ween, but I am weary,
And seek for sleep,
Which doubling darkness hides Life’s dreary
And downward sweep.
What is unfelt, and voiceless, viewless,
Can not irk deep;
Nor Morn can soothe her eyelids dewless
With my lost sleep.
Of sleep and pains such wide inundance
So very deep,
We drink and die of their abundance,
And make no neap.
To me, tired with my life and labour,
Both sold so cheap,
The Night thrills from the moon her tab or,
A tortg df sleep;
iohe walks with Eteav’n of stars above li:r,
And sings : “ NovV sleep ;
YoU kndw riot life, you have n > Ijv or.
Why should you weep ?
1 come from kingdom? f ami die 1, freusoa
With winter’s sneap;
Where happiest are the tishe I’ve chosen,
For starlong sleep.
u Where Hunger tortured, cruel, tamele's,
For warmth doth creep :
By Shame, with depth of shame, made sham las?,
And still they sleep.
** t’aifline and fancy foes allying
tn truce of sleep j
With festal dreams be-glad the dying,
With comfort cheap.
“ They dream, they moan, they die in darkness,
And do they sleep ? ”
Fat wolves gorge on their starved darkness,
This “ Trade ” you clepe.
'* But ’neath the snow the grain is growing
That seems to sleep ;
There’s some may see the harvest glowing,
And richly reap.
“ Your Austral harvest’s almost over,
The corn you heap—
But Day devours, let Day disoover—
Night’s soul is sleep.
“ Then sleep. There is no power may jeopard
What souls in sleep.
Go forth, as leads the Mighty Shepherd,
His starry sheep.
“ It fans away all fev rous paining,
My soft bat sleep ;
From weary lives the Lifetime draining
With kisses deep,
“ Then sleep, and let your sleep assure you
That Death is sleep,
The one pure potion that can cure you,
And yet is cheap.
“ But ’neath my robe my heart is burning,
Like dreams in sleep;
Till all melts into fiery morning,
My path I keep.
“ Before, behind the martial morrow
I healing creep;
I hear the world’s one wail of sorrow,
I cannot sleep.”
SYD. WH. JEPHCOTT.
26th January, 1888.
No leas than 160,000 persons die of con-
sumption every year in France.
Oat in the great loneliness of the Barcoo
Plains (Q.) a newspaper man advertises for an
office-boy—must be accustomed to pigs. We can
only humbly presume that he means the staff.
A young lady bailed up and
robbed by a masked man in the Western district
of Victoria, some time back, has since received
several offers of marriage. Of course, her less for-
tunate maiden friends speak of her as “ that stuck-
up thing.” _
A Chinese Barber’s Mistake.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Some years ago the only tonsorial pro-
cessor on a bustling little Victorian diggings,
since exalted to the dignity of a township by the
advent of the St. Arnaud line, was a Chinaman
known by the tender euphonic name of Soo Kee.
Soo was a good barber, and had the touch of an
"S[?]O KEE PROCEEDED TO LCRAPE THE CLOSE-CROPPED HAIR FROM MR. SPENCE’S BUMPY
CRANIUM IN ORIENTAL STYLE.
artist, but he indulged intemperately in opium,
which seductive narcotic considerably impaired
his brilliant intellect, and caused him to go addle-
headed and run rickety at times. On these occa-
sions it was advisable to watch him warily, for he
would drive round angles at such a reckless pace
chat, if he \Vere not kept awake to a sense of duty
by an occasional thwack, he would tary the
“FOR MANY MINUTES THE SHORN
CUSTOMER GAPED INTO THE GLASS
BEFORE HE COULD BELIEVE THAT
HIS IDENTITY HAD NOT BEEN LOST
DURING THE NIGHT.”
dull monotony by c itting off the corners alto,
gether, an! spoiling the only set of features the
fitter was provided with. The Celestial fos-
sickers who pervaded the diggings were Soo Kee’s
best customers ; they had their spherical occi-
puts scraped with religious regularity, but Soo
ran a bloated monopoly, and the whites, too,
patronised his palatial and high-flavoured humpy
to be shaven and sheared.
One of Professor Kee’s mo3t consistent
patrons was a burly European named Spence,
sho Wa3 exerting all his blandishments, and
spreading his personal beauty to the best advan-
tage, to catch the fancy o'f a coy U'idcrvr -the
proud possessor of a lump of land in the vicinity,•
Mr. Spence was notan in toxicatingly beautiful hero;
his complexion had been spoilt by early neglect;
his chief features had all been knocked askew in
numerous hand-to-hand encounters with Black
Anderson, Nobby Bill, the Game Cock, and other
minor lights of tie P.R. his cheek-bones, like
his muscles, stocduut boldly and defied the world,
and his face was so full of small pox pits that it ap-
peared to have been moulded in a nutmeg-grater.
In the gloaming Mr. Spence might easily have
passed for second cousin to a Chinese mandarin,
bht he never stooped to practise such deception.-
He consistently mowed all the hair off his face so
that the frefit view of his cast of countenance
should not be obstructed,- but encouraged a bushy
hedge which ran right round his jib, passing frolfl
one ear just behind the jaw, down under his chin,-
and up the other side.
♦ # •
Mr. Spence called upon Soo Kee regularly
Once a week to be reaped, and all went well till one
Saturday evening after the camp had been more
than ordinarily lively in consequence of a fight
between two diggers for £loa-side. Our hero had
occupied an official position during the contest
and was so elated by the victory of his man that
he got intoxicated, and wandered mechanically
into Soo Kee’s saloon, and, sinking into the opera-
ting chair, slept profoundly. Soo’s giant intellect
was considerably dimmed that evening by a recent
opium debauch, and, judg-
ing from a cursory glance
at the “Geordie’s ” classi-
cal lineaments that he was
a fellow-countryman, he
proceeded like one in a
dream to scrape the close-
cropped hair from Mr.
Spence’s bumpy cranium
in Oriental style. The
job was a difficult one,
but Soo Kee plodded
wearily on, and it was
completed at last. Then
Spence, the pride of the
lead, was a sight to see.
He was a grisly night-
mare ; his head was as
smooth and reflective as
a fish-globe, saving forone
tuft of hair like a shav-
ing-brush, which jutted
out of the gable-end of
his occiput, the sole relief from a great plain of
barrenness. After a feeble and ineffectual attempt
to induce his somnolent customer to take up his
possessions and meander, Professor Soo Kee
groped his way to bis lonely couch, and was soon
wandering in the realms of bliss conjured up by
the potent drug ; and the sound of Spence’s snore
filled the shanty and wandered far out into the
night. *
• ] )
Mr. Spence slumbered heavily in the
chair till long after daybreak, and when he did
wake it took him some time to fully realise who
he was and where he came from, being nowise
enlightened by a long and earnest survey of his
dismantled head as reflected in the cheap, gnarled
mirror which Soo Kee provided for the satis-
faction of his patrons. For many minutes the
shorn customer gaped into the glass before he could
believe that his identity had not been lost during
the night, but convinced at last by the peculiar,
inartistic break in his nose and several other well-
known landmarks, that he was himself, and that
some one had been tampering with his head of
hair, he groaned and uttered a weird streak of
profanity. He thought the job had been “ put
up,” and that Soo Kee was in the hands of his
enemies, and he turned to interview the slumber-
ing Celestial whose boudoir was partitioned off
from the operating-room by a curtain of potato-
bags. The first intimation that cordial relations
no longer existed between Mf. Spence and the
Professor came to the latter in tl'ie shape of a
bucket of water, and he had scarcely tints 1k?
ejaculate, “ What for ? u when he was picked up
bodily and tossed against the roof of the hut; then
he was draj ged all over the rough furniture by one
leg, pounded from head to foot, fired through the
wall, crowded back again, trampled on, choked,
and insulted with a curse as long as a Methodist!
prayer, full, fierce, and free from tautology.
Startled by the crash of timber, and the howls of
a strong Chinaman in his agony, the diggers
rushed out of their huts and tents, and the “Geordie 5 *
was hauled off. Then that interesting study
turned his attention to Soo Kee’s place of busi-
ness, and tore it asunder, scattering logs, furni-
ture, and implements of trade far and near ; after
which he prowled round the crowd, with froth on
his lips and blood in his eyes, earnestly beseeching
the man who put the Mongolian up to shave his
head to step out and be killed dead as a hammer;
but no one stepped, and no one smiled, not-
withstanding Jack Spence did look like a
Chinaman. Soo Kee was taken away and
dfiffted and doctored by his countrymen. For
ifreeks and weeks the Geordie went round with
his cranium enveloped in a! woollen scarf, and for
months his bald head \VaS a stock joke, bhfy
strangely enough, only one man daied to jibs at
it in the owner’s hearing, and h'e was Sent off to
Maryborough—to the hospital—the same day, t 6
be treated for a fractured skull and seventeeh
minor abrasions.
EDWARD DYSON.
A Recent Tragedy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’d been looking in a draper’s,
In a Sydney draper’s shop
(The case was in the papers)
. When she suddenly did drop,
For her heart bad finished bea'ing—
Something brought it to a step,
Think, 0 ! ladies, think upon if,
Was your sister stricken down
By the vision of a bonnet
With a newly-fashioned crown—
Or some bargains in merino—
Or a pretty morning gown ?
Did the sight of an improver—
“ Only two-and six apiece
In that fatal window move lv r
To a premature decease ?
What was it made your sister
Her departure take in peace?
Fait creatures, we can tell you,-
We can answer in a trice ;
She was killed by “Splendid Value/
Or “ Alarming Sacrifice”—
And she fell the early victim
Of an “ Afffitlftl Clearing” price,
Women are but kittle-cattle,
tJnreliable are they--
Gr ing valiantly to battle
With the troubles that dismay
Stronger Man, and yet a spider
Sends them scurrying away.
Then take warning, saith the poet, j
There is danger, saith the bard
(And it’s better you should know it),
In a draper’s window-card,
< < » » •
Writing rhyme is very easy—
Writing sense is very hard,
“SOO KEE WAS PICKED UP BODILY AND FIRED THROUGH
THE WALL.”
Fame’s Favourite.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Show me the road to fame,” the young man
cried;
“ What's that,” his elder answered, “that you're
wishin’ ?
Alack, there is no road ” (and here he sighed)—
“ She sits upon the greasy pole—Ambition.”
The young man looked, and sure enough he saw
Fame beckon to him from the lofty top
Of the long pole—a maiden without flaw —
“ Come down my dear,” he howled, “or else
you'll drop.”
“ Not I,” she said, “ the company up here
Is much too good to risk the loss of : see
There’s Shakespeare” (here the young man dropped
a tear),
“ Milton and Sladen, Candish, too, but he
“ Whom I most love, the apple of mine eye
(The one that here hath ever made his home
Since quite an infant)—now, this ain’t a lie—
Is the young cove who wrote this little * pome.”
M. B. GOGGS.


BALLAD
Buccaneers
BY ARTHUR GATYLL.
(For The Bulletin)
Fytte I.
Sit up, Great Public 1 Hold your head
While we affright your ears
With screed about two men now dead—
Two Brutal Buccaneers.
Two horrid ruffians whose delight
It was to .sleep by day,
And wildly swoop about all night
And wreck, and rob, and slay.
They never lisped a pious rhyme,
They never said their prayers,
Nor gave their hapless victims time,
Alas ! to utter theirs.
They never smiled when children good
Put money in the plate—
They gnashed their teeth, and when they could
Those placid infants ate.
Dreat Goryboots and Busticrust,
These were their horrid names—
Who now lie mingled with the dust,
Or, probably, with flames.
“And when he passed their loathly den
He’d greet them with a smile.”
Fytte 11.
But yet these Brutal Buccaneers
Were loved by all good men,
For, curiously, it appears
That they were honest then !
Although they steeped their hands in gore,
And waded to the eyes
In wickedness, and often swore
In ways that would surprise
A modern pirate, yet they said—
And we believe the same—
“ Our victims, ere ‘becoming dead,’
Received our card and name.”
They had a gaudy shop in town
These bold, bad, brutal wights,
From which they sallied up and down
To give the public frights.
And there they hung a shingle out,
Which, dangling in the air,
Apprised all men beyond a doubt
It was a pirate’s lair.
11 bore the legend graven clear
With crossed swords and six-shooter,
Of “ Goryboots, the Buccaneer,
And Busticrust, Freebooter.”
And many a quaint and crisp device
They also blazoned there,
Of hoary men and maidens nice
With blood-bedabbled hair.
By all of which at once you see,
Although bloodthirsty men,
They were from False Pretences free—
Ah ! they were honest then !
Fytte 111.
They grew in beauty, side by side,
They filled the town with slaughter,
And waxed they still as rich men died,
Much richer than they oughter.
Perleeceman Hex, he loved these men,
They were so free from guile,
And when he passed their loathly den
He’d greet them with a smile.
And orte became a Rechabite,
One joined the Holy Guild,
At Jefferis’ church on Sunday night
A pew he often filled.
And many philanthropic acta
These brutal men did do—
We can’t enumerate the facts,
We never would get through.
And so they prospered. Till at length—
The public loved them so—
The Holy Guild put forth its strength,
The Rechabites also,
And these two Brutal Buccaneers
Triumphantly were sent,
Though they protested with their tears
Into the Parliament.
Although these ruffians could not spell
Or write their names—what then ?
Though envy rankled they were—well,
Brutally honest men.
But down Avernus’ steep incline
The first step had been taken,
And soon they knew the tempter’s sign,
They felt their morals shaken.
They got mixed up in Syndicates
And other little larks,
And— you know what this indicates—
Some money lent to Parkes.
That Hairy Hinnocent first led
Their guileless steps astray,
And on his hoary artful head
The blame and burden lay.
They learnt that if for money lent
On good security
The lender can cop cent, per cent.,
The spec, is good, you see.
The dire temptation rankled deep,
They thought of it all day,
And even when they went to sleep
It wouldn’t go away.
They had grown fat and each had slipped
Three buttons from his vest,
When both a little oathlet ripped,
And said : “We give it best! ”
They said, as they increased their store,
And felt them growing old,
“ We won’t be honest any more,
Or brutal, bad, or bold !”
Fytte IV,
They took the gory shingle down,
They whitewashed all the shop,
They laid aside their awful frown
And all their schemes let drop.
They painted all the emblems out,
Three balls they painted in,
And airily they walked about
All ready to begin.
They called the shop a “ Bank ’’—they said
They wanted ten per cent.;
Five hundred (people found instead)
Was nearer what they meant.
They copped the poor man’s horse and cart,
They skinned confiding grocers ;
They broke the trustful widow’s heart,
And crushed the kids with woe, sirs.
Thus did the Brutal Buccaneers
Their honesty forget,
And prematurely seek their biers
In consequence, you bet.
Fytte V.
When Goryboots forgot his high
And honourable trust,
Perleeceman Hex had fixed his eye
On him and Busticrust.
And when his eagle orb perceived
How wily they became,
That brainy man was not deceived*
He smoked their little game.
“Wot ’o !” Perleeceman Hex he said,
In accents of surprise—
“ Great Goryboots is ’orf ’ees ’ead,
And Busticrust likewise!”
“Wot ’o!” remarks Perleeceman Hex,
“ Wot o’” he sez, sez he,
“ I fear I must embrace their necks,
And yank them off with me.”
He said, and, with a curdling shriek,
He swooped upon the twain,
And proudly then before the Beak
He led them on a chain.
With fell designs upon their lives
Led with him Busticrust
And Goryboots in clanking gyves
To their intense disgust.
“And you know what this indicates.”
Fytte VI.
The Beak, he was a man of much
Nobility of soul ;
His feelings were humane, and such
His virtues that the whole
Would fill a very costly book
At several pounds per page—•
Such volumes, if you like to look,
. Are common in this age.
To see men hanged he had endured,
And flogged until the flesh
Fell off the bones ; then they were cured
And flogged and hanged afresh.
He liked to hear the whistling “ cat ”
A strong man’s dying shriek
To him was nourishing and fat
Refreshment for a week.
And hanging-matches proved delights
To him when but a boy—
He always spent the previous nights
In ecstasies of joy.
He must not be supposed a freak
Of Nature, warped and bent —
He was the creature, so to speak,
Of his environment.
He couldn’t help it—he was kind,
Humane, and just, and good,
But though artistic and refined,
He loved the reek of blood.
He scorned his fellow-men to vex,
But liked to see them swing
Their feet above the ground, their necks
Inserted in a string.
And this because from early youth,
And ever as he grew,
Such horrors hemmed him round—in truth,
They never left his view.
"'Wot ’o! ’ the Beak, exclaiming said."
He, when he was a little child,
With little gibbets played,
And often paused, with aspect mild,
To see a person flayed.
And as to man’s estate he grew,
With whiskers on his cheeks,
He yearned to flog poor wretches, too,
And make them utter shrieks.
But blood—permiskus-like—and gore
Are costly luxuries,
As manners soften more and more
In days effete as these.
To hang up people in a row
Runs into some ex pense—
And if you’re hanged yourself, you know,
The agony’s intense.
So when his talents sought a groov«
For their due exercise,
To make a Beak of such a cove,
Was surely very wise.
Had he been left (it must be seen)
To whet his thirst for gore,
Most probably he would have been
Himself hanged long before !
Fytte VII.
The People liked this kind of show—
They loved a Beak like this—
To see a party hanged, you know,
To them was real bliss.
All disembowelled persons they
Regarded with delight,
They wallowed in such tilings all day
And dreamt far worse at night.
And so they, as the smileless Beak
Punctually appeared,
And writhed his fangs as if to speak,
Vociferously cheered.
“Wot ’o !” the Beak, exclaiming, said
(They always said “Wot ’o
“Let them be hanged till nearly dead,
Both Goryboots and Co.
“ Ten million lashes let them get,
Then be excoriated
With oyster-shells, if not dead yet—
And then asphyxiated.”
Perleeceinan Hex, with righteous wrath
Full up unto the ears,
Then sternly led the culprits forth
To seek their little biers.
The Rechabites and Holy Guild
With many a funeral rite,
The air with chants lugubrious filled,
In which they took delight.
And as they placed the dear defunct
Among the squirming worms,
They dropped with them these few perfunct-
Ory exequial terms :
“ We to the keeping of these stones
Do piously entrust
Of Hoary Goryboots the bones
And Gusty Busticrust!”
Thus Goryboots and Busticrust
Incurred their direful doom,
And subsequently laid their dust
Within the silent tomb.
"'Wot ’o!’ Perleeceman Hex, he said.”
Moral.
One moral, strictly for the young,
Sticks out, we think, right nere—!
“ Sweet infant, if you’d not be hung,
Go, be a Buccaneer !”
The second merits many thanks
From those who older grow,
“ Put not your trust in Workmen’s Banks,
Or men who say ‘ Wot ’o !’”
If you to live would fain delight,
Or die without being killed,
Please don’t become a Rechabite!
Don’t join the Holy Guild!
Go, glut your lust for horrid crimes,
Exult in dire offences,
From cutting throats to making
But— Don’t Make False Pretences f


His Father’s Mate.
[BY HENRY LAWSON.]
Chapter I.—Worked Out.
It was Golden Gully still, but golden in name
only, unless, indeed, the yellow mullock heaps, or
the bloom of the wattle-trees on the hillside gave
it a better claim to its title. But the gold was
gone from the gully, and the diggers were gone,
too, after the manner of Timon’s friends ” when
his wealth deserted him.
Golden Gully was a dreary place, dreary even
for an abandoned goldfield, and there are few
places on earth that look so desolate—so deserted
as that.
The poor tortured earth, with its wounds all
bare, seemed to make a mute appeal to the sur-
rounding bush to come up and hide it, and as if in
answer to its appeal, the scrub and saplings were
beginning to close in from the foot of the hills.
The wilderness was reclaiming its own again.
The two dark, sullen hills that stood on either
side were clothed from tip to hollow with dark
scrub and scraggy box-trees. But above the
highest row of shafts on one side ran a line of
wattle-trees in full bloom, and the contrast be-
tween their bright yellow and the other sombre
growth was typical of this land of contradictions.
The top of the western hill was shaped some-
what like a saddle, and, standing high above the
eucalypti, on the point corresponding with the
pommel, were three tall pines. These three
lonely trees were to be seen for many miles
around ; and they had caught the yellow rays of
many a setting sun long before the white man
wandered over the range s.
The “predominant note” of the scene was a
painful sense of listening, that never seemed to
lose its tension, a listening as though for the
sounds of digger-life, sounds that had gone and
left a void that was intensified by the signs of a
former presence.
The main army of diggers had long ago vanished
to new rushes, even as its remnants are vanishing
now to the old Rush where we all must go. But
like other armies, the diggers’ army had its
stragglers. These were men who were too poor to
drag families about, men who were too old and
feeble, and men who had lost all faith in Fortune.
They dropped unnoticed out of the ranks and re-
mained behind to scratch out a living amongst the
old mullock heaps
Golden Gully had its little community of fos-
sickers, but they lent no life to the scene, they
only haunted it.
One would think by the look of the place that a
pick had not touched the ground for years, until
one came suddenly upon a coat and a ‘ ‘ billy ” near
the top of some old shaft. These, and the thud of
a pick in the shallow ground underneath, told of
some fossicker below rooting out what little
“ wash ” remained.
Down at the foot of the gully in a patch
called “ Spencer’s Flat ” on one side and “Pound-
ing Fiat ” on the other were a few bark and slab
huts. These were the homes of the fossickers,
who sometimes eked out a livelihood by other
means, such as timber-getting and jobbing about
on the few farms, or in the “town” about five
miles away.
Some of the huts were neatly whitewashed and
fenced in. and had an enclosure attached called
the “ garden,” and often an old horse, and some
poultry and goats. It is strange that in digging
stories you seldom meet with a goat, yet 1 can
never think of a gold field, new or old, without
picturing the flocks of goats on the slopes or about
the huts and tents.
A little lower down the flat was an old building
of stringy-bark which had stood there for many
years. It had been an inn in other days but it was
only a shanty now, and not even supposed to be
that. The place was kept by one Pat Martin,
and a lady who might have been his wife. There
was a post office and general store, and also a
“ Colonial Wine License ” attached to the place
for appearance sake. To the onetime parlour
adjoining the shop, the few remaining fossickers
would repair of an evening to smoke and exchange
reminiscences of Ballarat, Bendigo, and the
“ Roarin’ Days.”
Chapter ll.— “lslet.”
One afternoon towards Christmas there was the
unusual spectacle of a windlass erected over an
old shaft of considerable depth at the foot of the
gully. A greenhide bucket attached to a rope on
the windlass was lying near the mouth of the
shaft, and beside it, on a clear-swept patch, was a
little mound of cool, wet washdirt.
A clump of saplings near at hand threw a shade
over part of the mullock heap, and in this shade,
seated on an old coat, was a small boy of 11 or 12
writing on a Blate.
He had fair hair, blue eyes, and a thin, old-
fashioned face—a face that would not need to
alter much as he grew up to manhood. His cos-
tume consisted of a pair of moleskin trousers, a
cotton shirt, and one suspender.
The lad held his slate rigidly with a corner of its
frame pressed close against his rib3—his head on
one Bide and so close to the slate that his strag-
gling hair almost touched it.
He was regarding his work fixedly out of the
corners of his eyes, whilst he painfully copied
down the head line which was written in a heavy
round hand, spelling it a different way each time.
In the laborious task he appeared to be greatly
assisted by a tongue that lolled out of the corner
of his mouth and made an occasional revolution
round it, leaving a circle of clean face. His sma'l
clay-covered toes also entered into the spirit of the
thing and helped him nob a little by their ener-
getic wriggling. He paused occasionally to draw
the back of his small brown arm across his mouth.
Little Isley Mason, or, as he was afterwards
called, “ His Father’s Mate,” had always been a
general favourite with the fossickers, and even
with the diggers, from the days when he used to
slip out first thing in the morning and take a run
across the frosty flat in his shirt. Old “ Tom the
Devil ” would often tell how Isley came home one
morning from his run in the long, wet grass a 3
naked as he was born, with the information that
he “ lost his shirt.”
Later on, when mo3b of the diggers had gone,
and Isley’s mother was dead, he was to be seen
about the place with bare, sunbrowned arms and
legs, a pick and shovel and a gold dish, with a
diameter equalling about two-thirds of his heigh*.
He used to go “a-speckin”’ and “fossickin’”
amongst the old mullock heaps. “Tom the
Devil ” was Isley’s special crony, and he
would often go out of his way to “lay the boy
onter bits o’ wash and likely spots.” Tom’s ex-
planation of his long yarns with the child was that
ft was “amusin’ to draw Isley out.” Isley
generally did most of the drawing out, but the
truth of the matter was that Tom, for some
reason or other, was fond of the boy and liked his
society. And, anyway, Tom was about right-it
is both amusing and Instructive to draw children
out
Isley had been sitting writing for some time
when a deep voice called out from below :
“Isley !”
“Yes, father.”
“Send down the bucket.”
“Right.”
Isley put down his slate and going to the shaft
dropped the bucket down as far as the slack rope
reached, and then placing one hand on the top of
the bole of the windlass and holding the other
underneath he let it slip round between his palms
until the bucket reached bottom. A sound of
shovelling was heard for a few moments and pre-
sently the voice cried, “Wind away, sonny.”
“Thet ain’t half enough,” said the boy peering
down. “Don’t be frightened to put it in, father.
I kin wind up a lot mor’n thet!”
A little more scraping ; and the boy braced his
feet well upon the little mound of clay which he
had raised under the handle of the windlass to
make up for his deficiency in stature.
“Now then, Isle’.”
Isley wound slowly but sturdily, and soon the
bucket of “wash” appeared above the surface;
then he took it in short lifts and deposited it with
the rest of the wash-dirt.
“Isley !” called his father again.
“Yes, father.”
“ Have you done that writing lesson yet ?”
“ Very near.”
“Then send down the slate next time for some
sums.”
“ Alright.”
The boy resumed his seat, and fixing the corner
of his slate well into his ribs he humped his back
and commenced another line, spelling it differently
from all the rest.
CHAPTEB III.— PICTUEES ON THE “ FACE.”
Tom Mason was known on the place as a silent,
hard-working man. He was a man of about 60,
tall but not stout, and with very dark hair and
beard. There was nothing uncommon about his
face, except, perhaps, that it was a face that had
hardened, as tihe face of a man might harden who
had suffered a long succession of griefs and dis-
appointments. Mason lived in a little hut under
a peppermint tree at the far edge of “ Pounding
Flat.” His wife had died there about six years
before, and though new rushes broke out and
Mason was well able to go, yet he never left
Golden Gully.
Mason was kneeling in front of the “ face ”
digging away by the light of a tallow candle stuck
in the side. The floor of the drive was very wet,
and his trousers were heavy and cold with clay
and water, but the old digger was used to this
sort of thing.
His pick was not bringing out much wash to-
day, however, for he seemed abstracted and would
occasionally pause in his work, while his thoughts
wandered far away from the wretched streaks of
wash on the “face.”
He was digging out pictures from a past life,
and it was evident that they were not pleasanb
ones, for his face was stony and white in the dim
glow of the candle.
Thud, thud—thud, the blows became slower
and more irregular as the fossicker’s mind wan-
dered off into the past. The sides of the drive
seemed to vanish slowly away, and the “ face ”
retreated far out beyond a horizon that was hazy
in the glow of the Southern Ocean. He was
standing on the deck of a ship and by his side
stood a brother. They were sailing south. South-
ward ! Southward to the Land of Promise that
was shining there in all its golden glory ! The
sails pressed forward in the glorious wind, and
the ship raced on, bearing on the wildest dreamers
ever borne in a vessel’s hull ! Up over long blue
ocean ridges, down into long blue ocean gullies.
On to lands so new and yet so old where above the
sunny glow of the southern skies blazed for ever
the shining names of Ballarat and Bendigo. The
deck seemed to give a lurch, and the fossicker fell
forward against the face of the drive. The shock
recalled him and he lifted his pick once more.
But the blows soon slacken again as another
vision rises before him. It is Ballarat now. He
is working in a shallow “ paddock ” up in Eureka,
and his brother works by his side. The brother
looks pale and ill, for he has been up all night
dancing and drinking. Out behind them is the
line of blue hills ; in front is the famous Bakery
Hill, and down to the left Golden Point. Two
mounted troopers are riding up over Specimen
Hill. Thud ! thud ! the troopers’ horses gallop
nearer and turn in their direction. What can
they want! It is soon evident, for they take the
brother away, handcuffed. Manslaughter last
night. Cause—drink and jealousy.
The vision is gone again. Thud, thud, goes the
pick; it counts the years that follow—one, two,
three, and so on up to 20, and then it stops for
the next scene. It is a selection on the banks
of a bright river in sunny New South Wales.
The little homestead is surrounded by vines and
fruit trees. There are a great many swarms of
bees working under the shade of the trees, and
there is a crop of wheat nearly ripe on the hillside.
A man and a boy are engaged in clearing a pad-
dock just below the homestead. They are father
and son ; the son, a boy of about 17, is the image
of his father. The father is like Mason, only
younger.
Thud, thud again ! Horses’ feet! Here comes
Nemesis in mounted troopers’ uniform.
The mail was stuck up last night about five
miles away, and a refractory passenger shot. The
son had been out “ shooting ” all night with some
“ friends.”
The troopers take the son away handcuffed.
“ Robbery under arms.”
The father was engaged in taking out a spit
round a stump when the troopers came. His foot
is still resting on the spade, which is half driven
home. He watches the troopers take the boy up
to the houss, and then, driving the spade to its
full depth, he turns up another sod. The troopers
reach the door of the homestead, but still he digs
steadily, and doe 3 not seem to hear his wife’s
cry of despair. The troopers search the boy’s
room and bring out some clothing in two bundles,
but still the father digs. They have saddled up
one of the farm horses and made the boy mount.
The father digs. They ride off along the ridge
with the boy between them. The father never
lifts his eyes, the hole widens round the stump, he
digs away till the brave little wife comes and takes
him gently by the arm. He half rouses himself
and follows her to the house like an obedient dog,
and then this scene faded from the “ face ”
Trial and disgrace follow, and then other mis-
fortunes, pleuro among cattle, drought, and
poverty.
Thud, thud, thud again ! But it is not the sound
of the fossicker’s pick—it is the fall of sods on his
wife’s coffin.
It is a little bush cemetery and he stands stonily
watching them fill up her grave. She died of a
broken heart, and shame. “ I can’t bear disgrace !
I can’t bear disgrace ! ” she had moaned all these
six weary years. ’Tis strange such people should
dread disgrace so much, but the poor are often
proud.
But he lives on, for it takes a lot to break a
man’s heart. He holds up his head and toils on
for the sake of a child that is left, and that child
is—lsley.
And now the fossicker seems to see a vision of
the future. He seems to be standing somewhere,
an old, old man, with a younger one at his, side,
the younger one has Isley’s face. Horses’ feet
again! Ah God! It is Nemesis in troopers'
uniform !
The fossicker falls on his knees in the mud and
clay at the bottom of the drive and prays Heaven
to take his last child ere Nemesis comes for him—
Nemesis in troopers’ uniform.
And Heaven was listening.
Chapter IV.—“Tom the Devil.”
His profile, at least from one side, certainly did
bear some resemblance to that of George Rignold
in his delineation of the sarcastic Mephisbopheles,
but the other side of Tom’s face, as also the inside
of his character, was totally at variance with that
of Lucifer. Like Faust, Tom had undergone a
metamorphosis but scarcely for the better. One
side of his physiognomy had been much damaged
and one eye removed by the unpremeditated ex-
plosion of a blast in some old Ballarat mine. The
eye or rather its absence was covered with a green
patch which, in return, gave a sardonic appear-
ance to the remaining features.
But Tom was rather a disappointment, for his
speech had none of the bracing cynicism that one
might expect, at least going by Lavater.
’Twas whispered that the byegone cussedness of
Tom’s life fully justified his claim to his title, but
if so the metamorphosis must have been thorough.
“Tom the Devil” was a stupid, heavy, but
good-natured Englishman. He stuttered a little
and had a peculiar habit of wedging the mono-
syllable “ why ” into his conversation at times
when it served no other purpose than to fill up the
pauses caused by his stuttering; but this by no
means assisted him in his speech, because he often
stubtered over the “why” itself. This pecu-
liarity gave a flavour of originality and humour
to Tom’s utterances, although his nature was far
from being witty or humorous.
The sun was getbing low down and ibs yellow
rays reached far up among the saplings of Golden
Gully when Tom appeared coming down by the
path that ran under the western hill. He was
dressed in the usual costume, consisting of a
cotton shirt, moleskin trousers, faded hat and
waistcoat and blucher boobs. He carried a pick
over his shoulder, the handle of which was run
through the heft of a short shovel which hung
down behind, and he had also a big tin gold-dish
under his arm.
There was an unpremeditated look about Tom’s
“ build ” as he came lumbering down; he seemed as
though he had been let out in several contracts to
architects of very diverse views and erected with-
out plans or specifications of any sort Tom
paused opposite the shaft with the windlass and
hailed the boy in his usual form of salutation.
“ Look see here, Isley ! ”
“What is it, Tom ? ”
“ I seed a young—why—magpie up in the scrub
and yer oughter be able to catch it.”
“Can’t leave the shaft, father’s b’low.”
“ How did yer father know there was any—why
—wash in the old shaft ?”
“ See’d old Corney in town Saturday, ’n he said
thur was enough to make it worth while bailin’
out. Bin bailin’ all the mornin’.”
Tom came over, and letting his tools down with
a clatter, he hitched up the knees of his pants
and sab down on one heel.
“ What are yer a—why—a doin’ on the slate,
Isley?” said he taking out an old clay pipe and
lighting it.
“Sums,” said Isley.
Tom puffed away at his pipe a moment.
“ ’Taint no use ! ” he said, sitting down on the
clay and drawing his knees up. “ Edication’s a
failyer ? ”
“ Listen at 'im—the hass ! ” exclaimed the boy,
“d’yer meantersay it ain’t no use learnin’ readin’
and writin’ and sums ? ”
“ Well, no, Isley,” said Tom, preserving his
equanimity. “ I don’t mean to say as edication
of itself is a failyer, cert’n’ly not; I mean the
way as how they—why, edicates, because yer
know’d’ yer Eee, Isley, they ain’t gob the ideas.”
“ ’N how oughter they edyoucate then ? ”
asked Isley.
Although Tom professed to be an authority
upon educational matters, he was nob quite pre-
pared to advance any theories upon the subject;
so he said reflectively,
“ Well, yer know d’y’ see, Isley, strictly speak-
ing, it’s a question.”
Isley didn’t dispute it, and, as the subject
seemed exhausted, Tom smoked for a while in
silence.
“ There’s one thing you ought to learn, Isley,”
said Tom presently, “ and that’s why—Nat’ral
History.”
“ Wot ? ’
“ Nab’ral—why History.”
“ ’N wot’s thet, Tom ?'*
“ All about animals.”
“ ’N is it int’restin’ ?”
“Yes, it’s both, why inb’restin’ and useful. I
studdied Nat’ral—why—History all my life, and I
ain’t sick of it yet.”
“ ’N wod’yer considers the most interestin’
animals, Tom ?”
“ Well, I think them—why—Landfeebyous
animals are as interestin’ as any.”
“ Wots Landfeebyous ?”
“Oh, them’s-them’s—why, animals as is a
cross between a fish and a animal There’s the —
why—Plabypust, that’s a Landfeebyous animal,
and it’s very inb’reslin’.”
“Is a fish a vegerbule?” asked Isley, ignoring
the last part of Tom’s speech.
“No, why—why, csrt’n’ynot.”
“ Then is it a mingeral ?’’
“ No, cerb’n’y not.”
“ Then is it a nanimal, Tom ?” asked Isley, wibh
the air of one seeking information.
“ No, it’s—why, it’s a fish,” said Tom, betrayed
into committing himself.
“ Listen at ’im, the hass ! It’s gob ter b’long to
the three kingums, ’n besides I caught a Platypust
wonst, when I was fishing in the crik, ’n there
aint no fish about it —it’s half cat, half duck, ’n
half —half—”
“ Well, I s’pose I made a mistake. I meant
that a Landfeebyous animal was one that lived
half on land ’n half in water. There’s—why,
‘land,’ and I s’pose ‘feebyous’ means water in
Latin.”
“ Sounds more like fish, Tom.”
“ No, it can’t mean fish. There’s—why—fluid,
that’s water ; it might mean that.”
“ Well, I ’specb that’s wot it means,” said Isley,
“Isley !”
“ Right, father.”
The boy went to the windlass and let the bucket
down. Tom offered to help him wind up, but
Isley, proud of showing his strength to his friend,
insisted on winding by himself.
“You’ll be—why—a strong man some day,
Isley,” said Tom, landing the bucket.
“Oh, I could wind up a lot m r'n f;Ob o r poti
in. Look how I greased the handles.” It works
like butter now,” and the boy sent the handle
spinning round with a jerk to illustrate his
meaning.
“Why did they call yer Isley for?” queried
Tom, as they resumed their £ea*s. “ It ain’t yer
real name, is it ?”
“ No, my name’s Harry. A digger useter say I
was a isle in the ocean to father ’n mother, ’n then
I was nicknamed Isle, ’n then Isley.”
“You hed a—why—brother once, didn’t you ? ’
“ Yes, but thet was afore I was borned. He died,
at least mother used to say she didn’t know if he
was dead, but father says he’s dead as fur’s he’s
concerned.”
“ And yer father hed a brother, too. Did yer
ever —why, hear of him ?”
“Yes, I heard father talkin’ about it onst to
mother. I think father’s brother got into some
trouble over a squabble in a bar wher a man was
killed.”
“And was yer—why—father a—why—fond of
him ? ”
“ I heard father say that he was wonst, but thet
thet was all past.
Tom smoked in silence for a while, and seemed to
look at some dark clouds that were drifting along
like a funeral out in the West. Presently he said
half aloud something that sounded like “ All, all
—why—past.”
“ Aye ? ” said Isley.
“Oh, it’s —why, why—nuthin’,” answered Tom
rousing himself. “ Is that a paper in yer father’s
coat-pocket, Isley ? ’
“ Yes,” said the boy, taking it out.
Tom took the paper and stared hard at i t for
a moment or so.
“ There’s something about edication there,”
said Tom putting his finger on a tailor’s advertise-
ment. “ I wish you’d—why read it to me, Isley,
I can’t see the small print they uses nowadays.”
“No, thet’s notit,” said the boy taking the
paper, “it’s something about tai-lors, ’n—’n
su-suet.”
“ Then I must have been mistaken, Isley. Is
there any—why—exarsters at sea ?”
“ Any wot? ”
“ Exarsters at sea—why, wrecks ? ”
“ No,” answered Isley, after turning the paper
over a while, “ but I knows a good exarster that
father told me about the other night. Thay was a
old mannerwar going down —that means founderin’
—somewherenear England, and just as theship was
about to founder, the capting yelled out ‘ Man
thur yards ? ’ ’N they went down with the yards
all manned—yer know what mannia’ the yards is,
Tom ? ”
“ Yes, but I guess they had some gallons of P. —
why—B. in them, or at least some rum, else
they’d ’a’ tried to let the vessel—why—founder by
herself.”
“ Listen at ’im —the hass ? the boats was all lost,
’n besides it’s a grand thing to drown with yer
yards all manned.”
“Well, I agrees that it was, sailors is—why—
plucky chaps, especially when they get rum or
P.B. in them.”
“ Alright, Tom, ’taint no use arguin’ over it;
are yer goin’ ter to wn Saturday ?”
“ No. Are you, Isley ?”
“ Yes, father promised, thay is a circust in
town Saturday, but one of us ’ell ’aveter go in to -
morrow for some fi sur.”
“ Isley.”
“ Ole on, Tom, father wants me.”
The boy ran to the shaft, and rf sting his hands
and forehead against the bole of the windlass he
leant over to hear what his father was saying.
Without a moment’s warning the treacherous
bole slipped round ; a small body bounded a couple
of times against the sides of the shaft and fell at
Mason’s feet, where it lay motionless !
Heaven had listened to the fossicker’s prayer.
Nemesis could come now, Nemesis in troopers’
uniform.
Chatter V.—“ He Neveiji Knowed.”
“ Mason !”
“Aye?”
“ Put him in the bucket and lash him to the
rope with your belt!”
A few moments, and
“ Now, Tom !”
Tom’s trembling hands would scarcely grasp
the handle, but he managed to wind somehow.
Presently the form of the child appeared covered
with clay and water and perfectly limp. Mason
was climbing up by the steps in the side of the
shaft.
Tom carried the boy down and laid him under
the saplings on the grass. He wiped some of the
clay and blood away from the child’s little white
forehead and felt for his flask of “ P. why B.”
but it was empty.
Presently Isley gave a gasp and opened his eyes.
“Are yer—why—hurt much, Isley?” asked
Tom.
“ Ba—back's bruk, Tom 1”
“ Not so bad as that, old man.”
“ Where’s father ?”
“ Coming up. ”
Silence awhile and then
“ Father ! father ! be—quick, father !” Mason
reached the surface and came and knelt by the
other side of the boy.
“I’)l—lll —why, run fur some brandy,” said
Tom.
“ No use, Tom,” said Isley. “ I’m all bruk up.”
“ Don’t yer feel better, sonny ?”
“ No—l’m —goin’tc—die, Tom.”
“ Don’t say it, Idey,” groaned Tom.
A short silence, and then the boy’s body sud-
denly twisted with pain But it was soon over.
He lay still awhile, and then said quietly :
“ Good-bye, Tom !”
Tom made a vain attempt to speak, but managed
to blubber out something like, “So-s'long,
Isley !”
The child turned and stretched out his hands to
the silent, stony-faced man on the other side.
“Father —father, I’m—goin’ !” .
Only a sound like a groan broke from Mason’s
lips, and then all was quiet.
Tom had taken off his hat to wipe his forehead,
and his face, in spite of it 3 disfiguration, was
strangely like the face of the stone-like man op-
posite.
For a moment they looked at one another across
the body of the child, and then Tom said quietly :
“He never knowed.”
“ What do3S that matter ?” said Mason, gruffl<%
and, faking up the dead child, he walked towards
the hut.
Chapter VI.
It was a very sad little group that gathered
outside Mason’s hut nexb morning. Martin’s
missus had been there all the morning cleaning up
and doing what she could. One of the women
had torn up her husband’s only white shirt for a
shroud, and they had made the little body look
clean and even beaubiful in the wretched little hub.
One after another the rough-looking fossickers
book off their hats and entered, sbooping through
the low door. Most of them had seen dead men
in their time, sometimes under very painful con
d'tions, but a da .d boy wis to th-ru suite'hi g


new and particularly sad. Mason sat silently at
the foot, of the bunk with his head supported by
his hand, and watched the men with a strange,
abstracted air. Even old Grimshaw, the local
bullbcky, who had always loudly denounced “ sin-
timirital rot,” was observed to wipe his eyes sus-
piciously as he came out ; and though he mut-
tered something, about “ Lord, how that hut do
smoke,” he failed to deceive the diggers, and,
besides, there was no fire in the hut at the time.
“ Tom the Devil ” had ransacked the camp in
search of some boards for a coffin ; there were
plenty of boards of a kind, but Tom was a bit
fastidious on this occasion.
‘ ‘ It will be the last I’ll be able bo— why— do
for him*” he 3aid.
At last he cattle to Mrs. Martin iri despair.
That lady book him into the dining-room, and,
(Winting to a large white table of which she was
very proud, she said in a firm voice :
.‘ Knock that table to pieces.”
“You —why, why—don’t mean it, mum?”
feasped Tom.
“I always mean what I say. Knock that
i’ABLE TO PIECES !”
She took off the few things that were lying on
flap of the table and Tom turned it over and began
to knock the top off.
She flounced about viciously to conceal the tears
that would start to her eyes; tears that welled
right up froiri her woman’s heart.
“Yes,” taid Tom, sen tenuously, “ he died with
bis - why—yards all manned.”
“ What!? askied Mrs. Martin, stopping in the
midst of a flounce.
But Tom only hamtriered away at his Work and
made nd further observation. Though Tom made
a Very neat job of the coffin, one of the fossicker’s
wives said it looked too bare and she ripped lip
her black riding skirt and made Tom tack the
Cloth over the coffin.
There was only one vehicle available in the
place, and that was Martin’s old dray ; so about
2 o’clock in the afternoon Pat Martin attached his
old horse Dublin to the shafts with sundry bits of
harness and plenty of old rope, and dragged
Dublin, dray and all, across to Mason’s hut.
The little coffin was carried out and put in, and
two gin-cases were placed by its side in the dray
to serve as scats for Mrs. Martin and Mrs. Grim-
ebaw who mounted in tearful silence.
Pat Martin lit his pipe and mounted on the
Shaft. Masoh fastened Up the dobr of the hut
With a padlock. A Couple of blows bn one of his
Shatp points roused Dublin from his reverie,
And With a lurch to the right and another to the
left he started, and presently the little funeral dis-
appeared in a cloud of dust down the road that
led to the “ town ” and its cemetery.
drtAPTER Ytl.—“FAther! Do You Want
Another Mate ? ”
AbeUb six months afterwards, Tom the Devil
went on a short journey and returned with a b *ll,
tespectable-looking young man of about 30.
He had dark beard and hair, and was very
like Masoh in appearance. He and Tom arrived
after dark and went straight bo Mason’s hut.
There Was a light inside the hut. When Tom
knocked there was no answer.
“Go in, don’t be afraid,” he said to his com-
panion.
The sbraDger pushed the door and went in, and
Stood bareheaded j ust inside the doorway.
A billy was boiling unheeded on the fire. Mason
Sat at the table with his face buried in his armss.
“ Mr. Mason! ”
There was no answer, bub the flickering of the
fit-elight made the stranger think he could detect
an impatient shrug in Mason's shoulders.
For a moment the stranger paused irresolute,
And then stepping up to the table he laid his hand
On Mason’s arm and said gently :
“ Father ! Do you want another mate ? ”
But the sleeper didn’t, at least not in this world
The early history of Australia up to the
institution of Responsible Government is now first
told from a Democratic and National standpoint in
“ The Bulletin’s Illustrated History of Botany
Bay,” the most successful shilling volume yet pub-
lished south of the Equator.
Principal Tulloch, whose “ Memoirs ”
have just been published, gives Her Gracious
credit for one wise remark :—“But religious
people are so wrong-headed,” said the Queen.
“ They either abuse inquiry, and fall into infidelity,
or go off into Romanism. People are so very bad
to each other about religion, they would kill each
other about it! ” Of course the Queen’s English
is just a bit “ off ” here and there, but the senti-
ment is excellent.
The poetic frenzy of Fitzgibbon, Mel-
bourne’s Town Clerk, has culminated in a
song dedicated (by permission) to his comrade in
grovel, Sir James M‘Bain, K.U.M.G., &c. Re-
verently we bequeath the opening verse and chorus
to posterity—
Australia, great plenteous land,
Where youthful, vig’rous States expand ;
Freedom and Monarchy consort,
And labour alternates with sport,
In smoother verse to sing your fame
I’ll change one letter in your name ;
I’ll turn the final A to E,
And fondly call you Australia.
Having accomplished this artful purpose, the
Town Clerk next proceeds to rub it well into his
cussed chorus
Hip, hip, hurrah for Australia !
For British-Irish Australie!
Shoulder to shoulder, knee to knee,
We’ll live and die for Australie.
It is seriously meant. With all his little failings
and weaknesses the Great Mokanna of the Mel-
bourne Exhibition is incapable of wilfully con-
ceiving a joke and then launching it at M‘Bain.
Frivolity has no part in the lines of such great
men. And although that first verse, and espe-
cially the chorus, might make the fortune of a
comic opera (in which the chorus adopted the
excruciating position imagined by the bard) yet
there is a religious ring about the third outburst —
“ Across the broad Atlantic wave
A mighty heritage he gave,
For British toil and valour true
From savage nature to subdue.
There steered the Maj flower o’er the main,
With freight that broke the feudal chain,
Set Stars and Stripes out flaunting free,
And brought to mind far Australie.”
This is a distinct insinuation that the success of
the Pilgrim Fathers brought Australie to the
mind of our Creator and encouraged Him to send
(in the next verse) “ brave, adventurous British
men,” with chains on their legs, to this great
country. But why continue ? Let us bear up
patiently until Fitzgibbon die 3 for Australia—or
for writing poetry.
At the beginning cf last month Tummy
was staying with his mi at Balmoral, amusiDg
her, no doubt, with an account of his holiday tour
in Hungary—a “boudoir account,” of course, and
one suited to a mother’s ears.
A highly disloyal tradesman of Auckland,
N.Z., offers a three-guinea bounty for every set of
triplets born in the colony. This, he states, is in
consequence of the reduction in the Royal bounty
to two-pun’-two. He winds up with “God save
the Queen and the Queen will save the money.”
A brisk little London story :
A very young boy, who has recently married wisely and
well, saw his aged wife off at Charing Cross, her destina-
tion ostensibly being Nice. Two days after the boy took,
say, a cousin down to the old Haibour town, and sent her
upstairs before dinner to decorate after the journey.
Strolling casually about the place in the interim he went
into the smoking-roam, and, to his unspeakable surprise,
he saw the wife he had believed to be at Nice just enter-
ng the doors. In a few minutes the youth had seized his
oag and taken a return-ticket, forgetting all about his
oousin lipstairs, and neglecting to pay the bill. The
young lady, when she found that her Lothario had fled,
divined the reason of it, and, determining to enjoy herself,
oonsumed a superb dinner. Next day, on looking into
the visitors’ book, she espied the reason of the hasty
flight; and being quick-witted she . watched the old lady
out for a drive, and then paoked up her baggage. Oa the
landlord presenting his bill she regretted that her bus-
band had been recalled to London, but said that it would
be all right, as his mother w&s staying there and would
pay. The elderly lady’s expression when the bill was
presented to her is not recorded.
Mr. Panton, the Melbourne P.M. who
wanted to pop bookmaker Subton iri a dungeon
because he gaVe Lord Beerthirsb one on tlie boko,
is becoming quite too dreadfully radical. He re-
cently, in cold blood, fined Sir Williairi Clarke’s
coachman 40s. for saying “ d n”bo a police-
man. After hearing evidence Panton looked
anxiously round the court to see if dear Sir Wil-
liam was present, and when he found that the
baronet had not come forward Panton went in for
AT THE CARDINAL'S WELCOME.
QUIET CITIZEN (to excited Irishman ); “GOOD
JOB FOR SOME PEOPLE THE
CARDINAL DOES NOT ARRIVE
TO TIME.”
EX. I. (in a rage): “WHOY?”
QUIET CITIZEN: “THE PUBS FOR IN-
STANCE, THEY ARE DOING
WELL.”
stern justice with great vigour. He bold the
coachman straight that although he (coachman)
had a good place and a distinguished place, yet he
must not expect to ride rough-shod over the public
'ervants. Bravo, Panton! To find another such fear-
less assertion of the law’s majesty we must go back
to the Middle Ages, when one Judge Gascoigne
gave the Prince of Wales seven days for wipmg
him across the mouth with his mailed royal glove.
And if Baronet Clarke should complain to Sir
Henry Loch about this affair, and cause some-
thing nasty to be done to Pan ton, we shall have
much pleasure in taking up a collection for that
reformed magistrate. He is a kindred spirit, and
we seize the present opportunity to call him
blessed.
A Melbourne “ special correspondent ”
drivels in the English press about the loyalty ex-
hibited at the opening of the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion and once more the bonds are being cemented
and the links drawn closer : -
When the orchestra struck up the National Anthem, a
roar went up which vibrated through the huge building
and brought lumps into the throats of the great assembly.
One boisterous stock-rider who stood near me threw his
cabbage-tree hat high into the air and a gentleman stand-
ing near advised him to “ keep steady or he would get
himself into trouble.” “Trouble be hanged,” indignantly
cried the bush-whacker, “we’re going to have three cheers
for the if I get three months for it.” He called for
his cheers like a man, with great drops of salt water from
his soft heart rushing down his dust-browned cheeks and
the roar that responded to his cry temporarily put a stop
to the proceedings.
It is the unlucky allusion to the “ dust-browned
cheeks ” of the heap of waste flesh that raised that
cheer which gives the whole business away. There
wasn’t any dust that day. Everything was
sodden and damp and dismal; the air was filled
with the slosh of the descending streams, and the
mud clung in tons to the huge feet of the loyal
multitude ; the effusive bush-whacker had a river
running down the brim cf his hat, and cold, icy
drops skating down his nose, and pints of dirty-
brown fluid slopping down the back of his neck ;
aDd he was too limp for enthusiasm or dust either.
The dismal botcher who wrote the story, however,
probably didn’t know that it ever rained in Mel-
bourne, and fancied Australia to be all a waste of
driving sand alleviated by beer. But we would
point out that a knowledge of all the surroundings
is essential to high-class lying and consistent men-
dacity, and, on these grounds, we would urge him
to stffdy up his facts ffiore carefully next tithe,
and avoid that baldness which has ruined many
valuable perverters while still in their prime.
The Down and Guhtree Jernel has for
some unknown reason published a sheet containing
reproduced photographs of its proprietors and
their principal employes. The biggest picture on
the page is that of Alfred Bennett himself. He
is at least three times as big as anybody else.
Why he should be three times as big as anybody
else is a dark and fearsome mystery only to be
explained when the sea shall give up its dead*
Why, merely because he is riaanaging proprietor,
he should be three times as big as either of his
we cannot tell. Perhaps it is because he
can, if he likes to do so, sass the editors,
whereas the editors cannot sass him. Then,
again, Alfred is the oiily man out of the whole
lot who is smiling. Why he smiles while
everyone , else looks so , serious we are not
aware. We asked a quesbion pn this point of one
of the staff the other day, arid bis only response
was to lay his finger alongside his nose and wink
wearily and shake his poor grey head. Perhaps
the weariesb-looking person on the sheet is the
collector. The collector is an integral portion of
the staff, and so is the chief canvasser, whose por-
trait is also given, and who also looks very weary.
Why the collector and the canvasser, with whose
occupations the managing authorities of the
JerNeL are understood to be in perfect sympathy,
should have little portraits at the bottom of the
page far away from Alfred, who is stuck right
m the middle, is another fearsome mystery.
We notice with surprise and regret that the por-
trait of Henniker Heaton, M.P., Alfred’s bfobher-
in-law, is nob given, and bhab John Haynes’
porbraib has also been omibbed, bhough every even-
ing we recognise his fine Roman hand sprawling
all over bhe Noose. Henniker Heabon and John
Haynes have done as much for the Jeknel and
the Noose as any other men. The Imperial
officials of Downing-street are saying of Henniker
just now that you can’t freeze him out; were you
bo kick him downstairs he would merely go and
anoint the bruised parts and then return smiling
to the charge. That’s what he did when he can-
vassed for the Jeknel from Capa York down
to Western Australia. He would attend a
wedding as an uninvited guest, and just as the
good old clergyman was about to ask the girl
whether she would marry the man, Henniker
would interpose and say : ‘'l beg your pardon,
reverend sir. Before this young lady replies to your
question, I would like to ask her whether it is her
intention to subscribe to the Down and Gumtree
Jeknel ”—and then, before she signed the marriage-
register, Henniker would insist upon her signing
an order form, and paying for twelve-months in
advance. Fact.
T , „ i , ~ , ,
If New Zealanders continue to arrive in
Australia in the same number that they have
been arriving during the past eight or nine months
there will soon be a strong leaven of Maoriland
ideas in this continent. The majority of the new
arrivals are young men who soon get into harness,
and many of them are succeeding admirably. It
is now proposed to start in Sydney a New Zealand
Club>
Says the Wilcannia Grazier (N.S.W.) :
w on tv,™ f,™
Nearly 20 acres of waving wheat, more than two feet
high, within six miles of Wilcannia l That will be news
to many of our readers. Upon the irrigation farm of
Messrs. N. W. and T. Ewan, up the river a couple of miles
above the old Mount Station, these 20 acres can be seen,
three weeks time the owners intend to cut it off for chan,
and though it is difficult to express an opinion, as a little
rain will make a much better orop, they think it will go
about a ton and a half to the acre. At £l5 a ton for chafl
this patch of rioh-looking growth represents some £450.
Dearly beloved brethren, hang praying—let us
irrigate.
It is stated in London that Lord Oarington
will be advanced a couple of steps in the peerage
on his return from his distant satrapy in Aus-
tralia. Let us suggest to the Baron who un,
Smithed himself, that a title having an Australian
flavour might do something towards strengthening
the bonds, Ac.—say, for instance, Duke of
Croajingolong or Marquis of Pinchgut.
At Wellington (N.£.) on ft recent SabbJthj
a steamer wa3 tying up to the wiiari arid ihe
usual crowd watched her. Solitary but superb
stood one with the brand of new-chum on him
plain as the mark on the late-lamented Gain. He
was accoutred in a pre-Raphaelite beaver, groomed
with a stable-broom, a creased suit of black, a
carnation vivid as his fruity nose, a shady
frilled shirt, a ditto white waistcoat, one blue
stud, item one red; highlows, crimson hair,
maroon fringe round cheeks and chin, and the
whole firmly lashed with voluminous watch-chain
of brassy texture. Presently the Governor’s aide-
de-camp, with an cgu-de nil complexion, and the
Governor landed. No one bowed ; nq one hardly
evep does. The “gent” in black, however, threw
a 14 inch smile athwart his dazzling countenance
and gazing round as one who says, “ Watch vie
and Jervois !” flouushed his old-time beaver in
salute. Jervois bowed. Glaring wrathfully at
the crowd the individual once more scooped his
headgear and thundered, “ ’Ats hoff heveryone,
take the time by me!” The ribald guffawed.
Spluttering with wrath, the gorgeous person
stalked up to the smallest and mcekest-looking
mocker and demanded, “ Who the ’ell har yer a-
larfin’ hat ?” Gravely considering the question in
its several aspects, the meek person finally humbly
bonneted his querist and walked away while he
was excavating himself. The reeking loyalist is
popularly supposed to be Beaconsfield’s “ Conser-
vative Wprking MaD,” who iff his sere and yellOW
leaf has jet up on England, home, arid bfefluty,
beer and Bible, and nemigrated.
Among the stif.
ferers by the Mien
land boom in Mel-
bourne is a person of
the market gardening
description who has
been taken-iri in Fuch
an elaborate and com-
plicated style that he
finds a difficulty in
sorting out the means
by which he has been
laid low. For many
years this person
owned a few acres
some miles from the
Victorian capital, and
there he lived in peace
and accelerated the
cauliflower and the
spud, till one evil
day when a specula-
tor came along and
offered, him £2O 000
for the property. He
was to get £5OO
down, and the other
£111,500 was to be
secured on mortgage
for three months till
the sale took place
when everything
would be liquidated,
and the market-
gardener fell iqto the
snare right off and
yielded to the subtle
voice of the charmer
and was betrayed. He
took the £5OO and
the mortgage, and
then the speculator
set to work and swept
away his house, which
was valued at £lOOO,
and demolished £5O
worth of fences, and
tore fip the cabbages
and the turnips and
the potato vines, and
rooted everything
out till the whole
scene became a howl-
ing wilderness and an
i rreparable desolation.
Having done all this
a syndicate next cut
the land up into
streets covered with
hard angular road
metal, and held a
sale. The market-
bouebt on , e a i lotm ° nt t( lJ ive tU f? L '
butl nobody else boughb anybhing, and the
broken syndicate, finding bhab its speculation had
?? ne wroD K> folde< ? ltse » U P and Bllen % fled awa y-
It never came back agam either. The gardener
has still gob his £5OO and as the mortgage has
* aben in he has gob the land back again as well;
and *°™ he 18 Bhovel ' lD l t I he m ® tal °f the roads,
and building a new £lOOO house to replace the one
which was carried away, and putting up new
*° nces A*j£ trying to feel that he hasn t lost more
than £ 2 ooo by S elling land that was worth about
£»000 for £20,000 and then getting it back for
P°thing. He says that he thinks he 11 get over it
m about ten years or so, bub the next syndicate
which comes to speculate in that district will be
P e ® ted b ? a bu . n : d °g the 81ze of a cart-horse, and
hunted away with guns.
Mr. Matt. O’Shanasay has presented the
library of his father, the late Sir John O’Shanassy,
to Melbourne Public Library,
*. i_ • ,
Ihe latest Batten berg per] ary Is that the
reason “Dear B.’s” husband wears the kilts is
because his Royal mother in-law fears he might
waste his allowance by buying browser-stretchers.
Picked up in the London Central Criminal
Court at the Gordon-Baillie trial :
<< When cheques were many and tradesmen green,
We heeded not what living cost,
’Twas summer then—but now I ween
a hard Old (Gordon) Bailey Frost.”
-Hawk
«... , . *
Mrs. Catherine Barrett, of Avoca (Vic.),
, . ~ ’ _ V
8 cu # rsm £ une inconstancy of perfidious
man. Catherine eloped to Sandhurst with Wil-
liam Blaine. They lived tcgether in illicit love
f o r six never-to-be-forgotten days, but on bhe
seventh da 7 • t b «r dream of happiness terminated
• i _ j 11 „ * Ti7*n* •. t
u 4 ar .» departure °| William with
belonging to the woman he had once adored,
Ah 1 Catherine it makes us smile •
Ab first so hot was Bm Blaine— ’
But in a very little while
He changed into a chill Blaine.
Horsforrt's Acid Pliospliate.
Seasickness Often Prevented and Relieved.
Keep your eye on “ The Galley Brand ” Whisky.
That’s the '• Lotion ” this weather.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Bookings, 110 George Street, near King Street.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street, North, Sydney, Dec. 10, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
A really and truly fashionable wedding took place at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, last Thursday, when Mr. Boyce
Allen, third son of the late Speaker of the N.S.W. Legisla-
tive Assembly, was married to Miss Dundas, a young
English lady closely related to the wife of the present
British Admiral of the Australian station. Warned by
their startling experience of a week previously, when a
thousand or two women of all ranks, ages, and com-
plexions crowded together like a mob of wild cattle, and
horned one another’s eyes out with long-handled sun-
shades, the Cathedral authorities had ordered that ad-
mission should be by ticket only, eo that when the pretty
bride, who, I may tell you, has a rose-and-milk com-
plexion and a big mass of yellow fluffy hair, walked up
the aisle leaning on the arm of Admiral Fairfax,
no bellow went to Heaven: “Is she in ? ” or
"What is ehe in?” or “What’s he like?” This
time things were conducted decently and in order.
The chief feature of the proceedings, apart from the ex-
ceptionally ultra-fashionable character of the congrega-
tion, was the extreme lateness of the bride, who, though
the appointed hour was half-past-two, did not attend until
just on three o’clock, the happy bridegroom having mean-
while to stand first on cne leg, then on the other, and
be stared at by about a thousand or more women. What
an ordeal ? lam quite sure he must have thought mar-
riage a failure during that terrible half he ur. It will be a
lesson for us all when one of these days a bridegroom,
whose best girl has kept him 20 minutes late at the altar,
calmly sits down and then arises and hands the olergyman
a little note for the best girl aforesaid, saying that he has
gone to another ohurch to get married to his second-
best girl (for I am sure every man has one cr
more second-best girls) ; or it may be that he
has arranged that two or three second-best girls stall
ha in waiting, so that one of them may take the off-chance
afforded by the possible non-arrival of the bride-expectant
1 had almost forgotten to say that the bride was attire l in
a rich gown of thick, white, small pattern silk made with
close-fitting cuirass bcdice, from the back of which fell a
long court traiD. The front and sided of the gown were
elegantly draped with Limeriok lace, and at the side fell
an Empire sash of soft white silk. The breakfast took
place at Admiralty House, where the Baron, who, with
Lady Carington, bad attended the church and signed the
register, proposed the health cf the charming bride. The
wedding presents were “ too numerous to mention."
By the way, there was at first a horrible rumour to the
effect that it was Ihe bridegroom’s brother--.hat eligible
and much-EOUght-after bachelor, Mr. Reginald Allen—
who was gciDg to be married ! and when the story became
current strong women shed tears in their bitter agony
and weak men threw up their hats in the air.
My ideal of the sublime in mueio being reached when I
hear every member of an oichestra playing just the time
he pleases, or when, say, three bands are massed, and
play simultaneously “Rule Britannia,” “ Garryowen,’>
and “ Annie Laurie,” you may judge with what alacrity 1,
the other night in Melbourne, paid to hear a “Grand
Wagner Concert” at the Cintennial Exhibition. Of
course, we were all enthusiasts in regard to the “music
of the future,” everything went swimmingly till the end
Of piece No. 4, Entr’ act “Lohengrin,” when, as soon as
Mr. Cowen’s baton ceased to wag, thunders of applause
commenced, and my escort’s stop watch was “let go.”
(N.B.— Like George Washington, it always tells the truth )
At the end of a 55| seconds burst of unmistakeable ap-
proval, the conductor condescended to turn round and
bow> his acknowledgements. Still the applause from all
parts of the house continued with, if possible, redoubled
energy, till 2min. 35isec. from the start, when again
the wie'lder of the baton deigned to turn round and bow.
But the audience were not inclined, seemiDgly, to take
“ no ” for an answer, and so, for the space of fully three
minutes more, kept up the row. Mr. Cowen’s superior
staying powers, however, finally told, and the applauders
sullenly subsided, beaten—by their servant ! The time
thus wasted would have more than suffioed for a repe-
tition of the piece eo unmistakably encored, and the
comments I heard afterwards on the ungraciousness
of the great musician should cause a tiDgling sensa-
tion in the latter’s ears for Borne time to come. Of
course we all know that Mr. Cowen is a sadly
underpaid man, seeing he only gets some £25 a day and
on this occasion he was perhaps fatigued after a day’s
outing with the Government ’Oass folks ; for there was
no orchestral concert in the afternoon. Besides, the
evening programme consisted of no fewer than six num-
bers, the performance of which oocupied a ivhole hour
Really people should be reasonable, and not exaot too
muoh from this poor, overworked musical genius.
What do you think of this? Of course it is written by
a man
It was reserved for a bride lately to suffer a complication
of acoidents, and get married after. The young lady left
the house and was driven for half a mile, when she dis-
covered that she bad not put on her bridal veil. This
was no fool of a veil either. It was not the regulation
souare of blonde lace, but a lovely Brussels net.
Back went the bride for this gorgeous portion of her
raiment. It was thrown over her in the carriage, and the
wedding procession again started. This time a breath o
air produced an inclination to sneeze. The poor bride
repressed it, but it escaped at last, and, oh ! horror on
horrors head, h»r white s'’in waist split from belt to
oooured a halt—thi i at the little shop where
thread and needles were obtained, and the gaping space
with difficulty was covered. At last, much too late, that
unfortunate woman reached the Church. In stepping
nervously from the carriage the lace button of an under
petticoat caught on the step, and she felt the fastening
give way. Every step up the aisle she could feel that
cruel skirt slip, slip, till she feared she would have to step
out of it at the very altar. She took a grip on the side
and on she went.
During the entire service she clung to it) like grim d< ath.
She let go for a moment to get her glove off for the ring,
and when she resumed her hold she felt that it had gained
on her. She might have been married with the catechism
for all she knew. She had other thoughts.
“ Will that p dticoat be dropped in the aisle, or will I
shed it on the sidepath before the mob as I climb into the
carriage ? It is the lawn skirt, with three ruffles cf
Valenciennes, or is it the little blue embroidered cashmere
ma made me wear so I wouldn’t take cold ? ”
The perspiration started on her pallid brow as she
hurriedly made the responses, and, half fainting, mode
her way down the aisle.
“Don’t lose your presence of mind, dear?” whispered
the young husband.
“ It’s my petticoat I’m losing,” murmured the lady
piteously.
When once in the carriage, th* sentimental bridegroom
pressed her hand and said, “At last the prize is mine.”
She said the same thing as she kicked the dreadful petti-
coat under the carriage- seat. It was the woollen one.
V'ours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
[lnteresting items of fashionable Intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully reoeived and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Offloe.J
We have received from Messrs. Mitchell
and Co. a splendid collection of stereoscopic views
of the Jenolan Caves and of the city of Adelaide.
These elegant pictures are “ just the very thing ”
for a Christmas present,
Messrs. J. S. Fry and Sons have been
awarded first prize at the Melbourne Centennial
Exhibition for cocoa, chocolate, and chocolate
confectionary. This makes 38 medals they now
hold, all first prizes.
The Bulletin Christmas Number does
not contain a Foreign-printed supplement, and it
is not loaded with a picture of a little girl and a
kitten. The paper presents to the public, on this
occasion, a festive old gentleman and a black cat
and various other items, drawn by its own artists
and printed in its own country.
The question of the hour is, What i 3
Wotngierevo? What dreadful mystery is the
weird-looking, unpronouncable collection of vowels
and consonants a key to? Is it aMasonic shibboleth,
a curse in Sanscrit, or a war-cry in Choctaw?
Is it an allusion to the Macnamara lease, or the
name of a new hair-dye ? Does it portend a rise
in the price of wool or the second appearance (for
one night only) of the Star of Bethlehem ? If it
isn’t any of these things, what is it, anyhow ? We
are dying to know, and Boyd and King won’o
tell us.
Christmas Bells
AFTER POE.
Hear the ringing, dinging bells —
Christmas bells !
What headaches and dyspepsia their melody fore-
tells ;
How they jangle from each steeple
In the hot and muggy air—
Warning multitu ,«s of people
That a vision be unted Bleep’ll
Follow Meriy Christmas fare !
“ Mind you eat, eat, eat
Pudding, goose, srd fruit and meat —
Don’t forget the s.affing that so beautifully
smells,”
Say the bells, bells, bells, bells,
Bells, bells, bells —
Say, with iron tongues ironical, the bells,
Hear the clanging, mocking bells —
Christmas bells !
Is’t of th j Redeemer their historic ringing tells ?
Do they ring for joy and peace,
Bidding harsh oppression cease ?
Is that the meaning sweet,
But heeded ne’er,
Of the rhythm they repeat
To the Bible-bearing people in the street,
Fond of prayer ?
O ! ye common folks or “swells,”
Trooping into churches as your business compels,
Let the bells
Sound the knells
Of “religions ” which are Hells
Till the peace cf heaven dwells
In the ringing and the swinging
Of those bells, bells, bells—
In the comfort-bringing ringing of the bells.
Hear the singing clinging belles —
Spinster belles !
What a world of mischief are they working with
their spells!
Lunching underneath the trees,
While a wooing zephyr breeze
Blows the truant tresses from tte’r brows;
Sitting thus on grassy slopes,
Ah ! what foolish fleeting hopes
Girls arouse
In the hearts they steal away
From the boy s on Christmas Day ;
And the vows
That are mutt ly made, or spoken
In a trembling undertone—
Maybe, better they were broken
Ere those hearts are cold as stone.
Yet, alas ! it is but human
For a man to love a woman—
So the lover’s bosom swells
With the music of the belles,
Heard in leafy, shady dells
Where pellucid water wells ;
And a love that seems sublime
Fills the hearts that beat in time
With the belles’ —
With the passionate pulsation of the belles’;
Keeping time, time, time,
In a happy Runic rhyme,
With the throbbing and the sobbing of the belles’.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Oaßh Price
K- en for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
bbb Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Bujiell-street.MllLßOUßNl.
SWEET BOBONIA, the New Perfume. Manu
factured from th West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold Everywhere. Price, 3s 6d.,
55., and 10s. Post free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-st., East.
WET.KOEBME.
When next yon bake try Pemell'B Snow-whitb Patbm
RoiiiiH Fkkjb. and yow bread will be as white ae enow.
CAUTION.
LOOK OUT FOH FRAUDS.
Owing to the success of Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters in curing all
diseases of the Liver, Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Nervousness, Sleeplessness,
and Female Complaints, so that it
has become a standard household
remedy all over the world, and the
immense demand for the original
and genuine article, certain persons
are offering for sale various cheap
and spurious preparations under the
name of “Hop Bitters” which do
not contain the medicinal properties
found only in Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters.
Take none of the cheap bogus stuff
simply because it is called “Hop
Bitters,”
TRUTHS.
Dr. Soule’s American llo|> Bitters are tlie
Purest mid Best Bitters ever made
They are compounded from Hops, Buchu, Man-
drake, and Dandelion— the oldest, best, and most
valuable medicines in the world, and contain all the
best and most curative properties of all other Bitters,
being the greatest Blood Purifier, l.ivcr Regu-
lator, and Life and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
No disease or ill health can possibly long exist where
these Bitters are used, so varied and perfect are their
operations.
They give new life and'vigor to the aged and in-
firm. To all whose employments cause irregularity
of the bowels or urinary organs, or who require an
appetizer, tonic, or mild stimulant, these Bitters are
invaluable, being highly curative, tonic and stimulat-
ing, without intoxicating.
REMEMBER.
£5OO (Five hundred pounds) will be paid
for any case that Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters will not cure or help.
See that each bottle bears genuine
label bunch of green hops on white
paper with black letters.
None other geuuiuc. Take uo other.
IVT O W READY,
“ PETS 0F THE PUBLIC.”
A Book of Beauty, containing 25 portraits of
Eavourite Actresses of the Australian Stage :
Maggie Moore, Essie Jenyns, Lily Dampier,
Nellie Stewart, Nellie Earren, Sylvia Grey,
Marion Hood, Letty Lind, Mrs. Robert Brough,
Mrs. George Rignold, Mrs. Bland Holt,
Jenny Watt-Tanner, Patti Browne, Agnes
Thomas. Leonara Braham, Alice Barnett,
Myra Kemble, Kate Bishop, Rosalind Watts-
Phillips, Carrie Swain, Minnie Palmer, Lilian
Gillmore. Isabel Morris, Ida Osborne, and Nina
Boucicault; with critical and descriptive notes by
Edward Ellis. The cheapest and most attractive
book ever offered to the Australian Public.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
At All Booksellers.
Or, Is. 3d. Post Eree, from Edward Elus,
Victoria Chambers, 60 Castlereagh-street.
Mfl AM given away to buyers of a Bottle of Brbadalbani
£iV)VUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
IHE BEST XMAS PUBLICATIONS
“ Socialities, 1888.”
Centennial Number.
ONE SHILLING; post, Is. 3d.
A charming Illustrated Work by the First Comio
Artists. 150 capital Woodcuts, numerous columns
of Humorous Letterpress ; also,
"MELBOURNE PUNCH" ALMANAC,
Centennial Number.
SIXPENCE ; post, Seven pence
No breakfast table is complete without a copy of
this justly popular work. Laugh and grow fat 1
You cannot enjoy life if your digestive organs are
out of order. Punch’s Almanac promotes good
digestion. It laughs away all the ills that flesh is
heir to. Illustrated throughout its numerous pages.
tf All Booksellers and ALEX. 9TKINLEV A CO.,
51 Hnnlior Rtrent. SYDNEY
BRITTENBERG & CO.,
• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors. Oleographs and Mouldings.
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity/ of the Stomach,
Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,/Sour Eructations,
Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s Cure
for Gout, Rheumatic
Gout and Gravel: the
safest and mostgrentle
Medicine for Infants,
Children, Delicate Fe-
males, and the Sick-
ness of Pregnancy.
DINNEFORO’S
FLUID
MAGNESIA;
A
Sold 1)' -ill Druggists and Storekeeper-*
N.b. ASK FOR DINNEFORD’S MAGNESIA.
COOLING AN I) REFRESHING.
*4
a
LADIES playing Terms, Boating, Yachting, ami all exposed
to the Hot Sun and Dust, will find that
Rowland’s
Kaly d o r
has a most delightful and pleasant effect on the Face, Hands,
and Arms, during Hot Weather. It prevents and removes
Freckles, 'Jan, Sunburn, Redness and Roughness of the Skin
caused by Hard Water or Sea Bathing ; renders the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH,
and delicate, and produces a
Pure and Lovely Complexion.
It is warranted perfectly harmless, and free from any lead, mineral, or greasy compounds,
or oxide of zinc, of which most skin beautifiers are composed.
Macassar Oil
Rowland’s
PREVENTS the Hair falling off or becoming dry
in hot weather, and eradicates Scurf and Dandruff.
Sold also in Golden Colours for fair-haired people.
Rowland’s
O d o n t o.
A PURE, NON - GRITTY TOOTH POWDER. It
whitens the teeth, prevents decay,, and gives a pleasing
fragrance to the breath. Ask Chemists and Druggists
for ROWLAND’S Articles, of 20 Hatton Garden, London, England.
BSTABLISHBD 1825.
NEAVE’S FOOD
FOR
INFANTS,
INVALIDS,
AND
THE AGED,
BEST AND CHEAPEST.
THE WOLSELEY SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE.
PABTORALISTS are notified that, to avoid disappointment,
no time should be lost in booking orders for next Season.
AGENTS:
J. K- O-EDIDBS Co.,
19 Phillip Street, Sydney.


—")
\ ■
.J
r
e
$*V3S$
WOTNGIEREVO.
CHRISTMAS TIDE.
OE all seasons of the year Christmas is one that induces a feeling of generosity
and goodfellowship, more especially is it a time when all men open their
hearts and endeavour to please those f r whom personal connection or kinship render
it incumbent upon them to present a tribute of their Jove, affection and esteem.
At such a time is it that parents like to present to their offspring some-
thing that may benefit and interest them.
The age in which we live at such an express speed imbues the minds of even our youngest off-
spring with ideas that years ago would have been thought madne s. In fact, “ Presents of Toys,” that
in our youthful days would have interested us at 10, would not now be looked at by our children of 5..
This rapid progression requires something more advanced than the ordinary Christmas present, and
in terms of contradiction we may say that now Boys are Men before Men were Boys of 30 years ago.
It has occurred to the owner of the delightfully situated tract of land, now appropriately named
SOVEBEIGNTOWN, in tbe interest of which this notice is published, that if the price of blocks of
re r d good lard were brought within the reach of all olasses, thousands of persons of foresight and
frugality would embrace the opportunity of becoming freeholders, and instead of wastii g pounds in the
purchase of toys and useless articles that amuse for the hour a d are then thrown away and useless, they
would seek to acquire for themselves and thtir (hddren a tangible substance in the shape of Freehold
Property. A celebrated American speculator one said, “ Had i invested the money I have lost in
mining speculations, and otherwise fooled away, in Freehold Land, I should to day be the richest man
in America.” The object then of this notice is to induce parents who have the interest of their children at heart, and friends
who wish for the future welfare of their proteges t~> make an Investment of the trifling sum of ONE POUND, for which amount,
they secure absolutely a BLOCK of EBEEHOLD LAND in SOVEBEIGNTOWN, which must eventually become a thriving centre,,
and certainly Building Sites in the Township form a Christmas, New Year’s or Birthday Present, worth giving to the youngsters.
Eancy a Building Site, 20 x 100, in the very heart
of Sovereigntown for One
vested in a Block of Land
not eat anything, there
It is absolutely yours or
will shortly become very
Bear in mind the
£l, on payment of which
fer under Torrens Act is
and can at any time be
Titles Office in the name
daughter, or friend.
It may perhaps be
details of tbe nature of
town, or as some wag
Town,” is situate in the
fully located district of
Great Southern andWes-
from that extensive Go-
PENRITH on the Main
tern Bailroad of New
men who have travelled
this district, exclaim —
of Australia.” Charm-
fertile meadows greet
Starting from Byd-
train to Penrith, which
the Main Great Western
.8 RRIOnS-ST • cvjn.ru
View of Church and Parsonage from Sovereigntown.
Sovereign. A Pound in-
cannot run away, does
is no Interest to pay.
your child's property,and
valuable.
total c >st of the land is
a Memorandum of Trans-
handed to the purchaser,
Registered at the Lands’
of yourself, your son,
as well to enter into some
the property. Sovereign-
termed it “Quid Pro Quo
salubrious and delight-
Mulgoa, on the Main
tern Road, .‘even miles
vernment Depot Centre,
Trunk Line of the Wes-
South Wales. English-
the world over, on seeing
“ Surely this is the Kent
ing, undulating tracts of
the eye on every hand.
ney the traveller takes
is thirty - four miles < n
Railway, and is noted
for its extensive Government works, it 3 prosperous and busy town, and its extensive surroundings, not only of agriculture, but of the
aristocratic mansions of Sydney’s monied population. Referring to an official “ Railway Guide, published by the Government in 1886,
we find that Penrith is described “ as surrounded by broad pasture lands and alluvial plains, of great extent and singular fertility,
b unded westerly by the Nepean River. The population in 1881 was about 9000, but has since nearly doubled. It has 45 miles of
streets and Janes. The course of the river runs parallel to the town, and is crossed by a boldly designed and admirably constructed
bridge ’ supported by four huge piers of solid masonry ; altogether it is one of the finest works of the kind in the colony, and is worth
o-oino’ to see The views are unrivalled. The basin in the river is an immense Natural Bath, the depth of which las never yet been
ascertained '* It would be difficult to conceive scenery more beautiful. The celebrated Blue Mountains close in upon the river, while
the latter winds around all the points and corners, as though loath to leave places so pleasant. The place of places adjacent to Penrith,
is Mulgoa • here we find a district of astonishing fertility, settled on by industrious agriculturists, all thriving and prosperous
C! „ voionfnwn Ims been laid out bv Mr. Surveyor Stephen with due regard for mating the most of the natural beauties of the place, but while doing so, every ate ntion lias been
aovtm.n ovvi - d settlement f f what before long must be a thriving Township, in anticipation of the Ine of railway that is surveyed through the property. Besides
' on foot bv the enterprising firm of Chaffey Brothers, to form an Irrigation Colony, completely surrounding Sovereigntown. Every Lot has been
® 1 nu mbered The streets are all 66ft. wide, and special sites have been reserved for a Town Hall, Market Hal 1 , Masonic Hall, Good lemplars Hall, Oddfellows'
There is already a Public School, and Sites have also been reserved for each Denomination of Church. Of course, at the price
" ould be utterly impossible for the Auctioneers to take persons indiscriminately over the estate,
s, who can be appointed to inspect on their behalf, and in the event of such inspector,
refunded by the Auctioneers.
Unlike most properties placed in the market, this is cleared, and presents a park-like appearance, pleasing to the eye, and of immense advantage to the settler, as in
~ expense of clearing land is actually more than the cost of purchasing. This being obviated, all the settler has to do is to start building his house at once.
given to th. i.ltim.te advance and settlement
which there is a gg
surveyed, pegged and numbered
Hall. Library and Debating Hall, and Public Baths.
Clearing.
many instances the expense
Title. The title to the property is a Certificate under the Real Property Act, or what is more universally known as Torrens Title.
w has- can be made Persons desiring to secure one or more of these Township Lots for themselves or their children, can call at the office of the Auctioneers, BOYD
i TT-SSn QRPi+f street Svdnev and on payment of £l, and supplying the name, address and occupation of the purchaser, they will receive a Memorandum of Transfer of the land
can at any’time be regWered by themselves at the lands’ Titles Office Persons living mthe country can seed cheque or P. 0.0, for
themselves, oi w h om the Deeds are to be made out, and within 24 hours the transfer will be despatched to them by registered post, so that they will at once receive some-
each ma B th Qr ha)id tQ the fortunate one f Gr whom the land is intended ; thus there is no vexatious waiting for the deeds, but an absolute and umii.peachable title
LSf jTfSthwith Such an opportunity as this has never before been offered to the public, and the Vendor has every confidence that a week after it isHnown there will not be a Lot
liold Think of the sovereigns that have been thrown away on horse-racing or sweeps, for which nothing can be shown whereas wnh Sovereigntown a Freehold Building Site in
which must eventually become a large township, for a simple £1 can be absolutely secured. Your child has a nice little nest egg ; a start m life for the boy ; a wedding dowry for the
Arl; o“may be a home for your declining years. Such an opportunity as this is not likely to occur again, therefore call or send at once for a sovs. worth of Sovereigntown. Further
information can be obtained from the Auctioneers,
BOYD & KTNG: 96 Pitt Street. Svdnev.


Messrs. BEALE & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten-
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George street. In anticipation of
a large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps-
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu-
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their'way in
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs hate been sold throughout
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfect
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The follow-
ing are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz , check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shririk,
cast, nor warp.
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the bates
covered with copper only. The vibrations af'O
reverberated by a sounding board specially secured
tgainst chaDgi s cf t'mperature, imparting a clear,
hill, round, delicious singing tone in marked con-
trast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds of inferior
•nstruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double oblique, the
firings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
\ olume than the old, straight-struDg pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
fith. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. These frames are square reaching from
the bottom of the case to the extreme top of the
wrest-plank, securely bolted through the latter.
Compound studs sustain the whole with absolute
rigidity. That these precautions are necessary
ihay be understood from the fact that the tension
the wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons.
Thus the rapid mutations of our climate are
resisted and tuning is only required at long inter-
vals.
7th. The Felts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
Case with nearly every piano excepting the HapS-
WWg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Elate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to &
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge backs
are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearing are Secured
iri their places by screws, which is a great excep-
tion to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Cuter Oases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
Or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECIED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate of Mendelssohn, Tbalberg,
Hummel and Weber; the accompanist of the worlds
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, LabJache ; the author of
the “ Crow n of Thorns, ” and many other noble composi-
tions, handed us the following
“Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
“I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in ail the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adherrd to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote •
“ Ayant soumis les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES,
je declare avoir btb aussi charmbe que surprise de la
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLES. Je les
rdcommande en toute sincbritb. ALICE CHARBONN ET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Svdnev 20
Juin, 1883.” J "
CERTIFICATE.
“ I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.'s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20,1883.”
Governor Sir W. C. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of “Unfurl the Flag ” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“ The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak, very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“ The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power. ”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“ The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
“ Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
“Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos. ”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY
Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 George Street, Sydney.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will supply yon
with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium upon EASY TIME
PAYMENTS,
HRIS T M A S HOLIDAYS.
JVJelachrino i
JVJELACHRINO !
This world-renowned Egyptian Cigarette is
made from the finest Yenidge Tobacco and has
no Equal. Has now the Largest Sale in the
World !
M. MELACHRINO & CO., Cairo,
And 21 Cochspur Street, London,
Are. by appointment, purveyors to the Courts and
Ambassadors of Europe, the principal British and
Continental Clubs, and all the Messes- of the
British Army and Navy.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 BARRACK STREET,
Are Sole Agents where the Public can obtain
Boxes of 100 Cigarettes and upwards, and also
from the
Leading Tobacconists in Sydney.
Demand for these fragrant Cigarettes increasing
daily. Fresh supplies by every Mail Steamer.
WARREN & ROWN,
14 Barrack street, Sydney,
Importers of finest Brands of Havana Cigars.
Public supplied with Single Boxes at Wholesale
Prices. Price Lists forwarded on application.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7; Commence 8. Carriages 10.30.
Tremendous Success of
SIGNOR and SIGNORA MAJERONI
IN THE CHARMING AND ROMANTIC PLAY
WANDA. WANDA.
WANDA. WANDA. WANDA.
PRICES, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Last Three Nights of
MAGGIE MOORE, and J. C. WILLIAMSON
in the
Intensely Exciting Sensational Drama,
THE SHADOWS OE A GREAT CITY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’B.
B 0 N D 1 _L3
UAK I U M
The most popular plcnio and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.) Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d,
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
Favourite Comedian
Mr. FRANK THORNTON.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.”
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.”
ADMISSION — Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
Box Office open daily at Nioholson’s Musio
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
"VT"EW HAYMARKET MUSIC HALL.
J3I Proprietor Mr. Barr.
Sole Proprietor and Manager, Mr. H. Rickards.
Unprecedented Success of
THE HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY AND SPECIALTY COMPANY.
Acknowledged by Press and Public to be the
Best Company of
COMEDIANS, SINGEBS, AOTOKS, and SPECIALISTS
ever brought to Australia.
Everything New, Original, and Refined.
Doors open 7; commence at 8.
Admission—Stalls, 25., Balcony Is.
Manager for Mr. Rickards, John C. Leete.
QPERA HOUSE.
Manager for Mr. Miln ... Mr. J. L. Goodman.
Managerial Notice.
The Management have much pleasure in an-
nouncing that they have arranged with
THE EMINENT TRAGEDIAN,
Mr. GEO. C. MILN,
Supported by
MISS MAGGIE KNIGHT
And a strong Company, to appear for a
LIMITED SEASON
PRIOR TO HIS DEPARTURE
for
NEW ZEALAND.
Mr, MILN will essay some of his greatest
impersonations, opening on
BONING NIGHT,
DECEMBER 26th, 1888.
ELABORATE SCENERY.
MAGNIFICENT COSTUMES,
Full particulars in future issue.
sdfsdfsd
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Pabbamatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
{§„ FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AHD
UANUFAOTUSIRBi
Sitho'i Sakincr Fowieri. Orient Soun Bln,
EGG k OUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF 80AP. 80DA CRYSTALS,
SALAD ft OASIOR OILS.
Orient Washing Fowdar.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
OURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OilS. FEH3IAX SSERBET,
kg., fce.
STEAM WORKS s
HABBIS STEEETj ULTIMO,
SYDNBY,
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
vr. JAMESON A CO.’S
"mROWBOHE LANE" WHISKY,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
QAI E T Y THEATRE.
Under the Management of Mr. Leigh Lynch.
Mr. FRANK LINCOLN. America’s Greatest
Humourist, will make his First Appearance in
Australia SATURDAY NIGHT, 22nd Decem-
ber, inbis world-famed, original, HUMOUROUS
MELO MONOLOGUE ENTERTAINMENT.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Business Manager,
Mr. Lohr.
G
A S.
GAS.
.G A S.
Protect yourselves against explosions, leakages,
waste, and overcharges.
JOIN THE GAS CONSUMERS PROTEC-
TIVE ASSOCIATION,
No. 110 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
H. W. SHAND, Manager.
Office Hours : 9 to 5, and 9 to 1 on Saturdays.
HIBBLE & CO.,
Art Decorators,
SIGN WRITERS,
Painters,
PAPERHANGERS,
&o.
96 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
scsriDnsrEi-s-,
North shore land
BOR S-A-LEL
A. HARNETT, June:, & CO.,
60a PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
<£2o B,CKBOABI> BUGGIES
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash ; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South!
£2O
“Ladies, do you want to be strong, healthy and
beautiful ? Then use Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
Perth Laud is a good investment. Plans from
Intercolonial Investment Company, Limited,
96 Bathurst street, Sydney.
Uniform a specialty; quality, fit and ootnfori. Mudl"
uia'a, “Mr TiU.oa," 164 King rtrent, Nowtown
N
BWT 0 N
AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS}
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting hammock chair,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in Its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &o. Newton & Lamb.
ill UH
am
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari»
Otis sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
H
D
RAWING ROOM OABI>
NETS,
Bash knsuib
OHirriHDAKs Dsaiass,
Nswton ft Lams.
PIANOFOR« ES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
fs
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE,
A Very Gomplet b
Assortment.
Many quite new designs,
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
s
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
R
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
dfs
T> EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
fd
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
I3s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,|
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. Bd. |
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show rooms and Manus aotcby i
*PRTWO * O’OONNRLXi BTRSRTS.


THE
Sydney ui Ppoyiaeial Land mi Building Co,,
Limited,
303 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
B. H. CHAPMAN, Esq., Chairman.
Capital .. £lOO,OOO. Subscribed .. £57,460.
Uncalled Capital and Reserves .. £39,987-
Highest Rates given for Deposits.
Liberal Advances to Build.
SAVINGS BANK. — Withdraw without notice.
Interest, 5 per cent.
How to Buy a House for 12s. a week.
How to Buy an Orchard Block for Bs. 6d. a week.
Ho w to Buy a large Building Block for Is. 3d. a week
WILLIAM DAVIES, Manager.
Land, mortgage, loan, and dis-
count COMPANY, Limited
(Incorporated undtr the Companies’ Act).
CAPITAL ... £75,000, with power to increase.
Corner YORK and KING STREETS.
The Company make immediate Advances on all
descriptions of Merchandise, bonded or otherwise,
under hypothecation. Trade Bills discounted
daily. All financial operations attended to
promptly. Reversionary Interests, Legacies
(European or Australian colonies), Remittances
advanced on or purchased.
Special Notice.—Farms, Farming Implements,
Machinery, Horses, Cattle, Conditional Pur-
chases (with certificate of conformity), also Bills
of Sale without registration or possession, in small
or large amounts. SPECIAL.—First or Second
Mortgages. Personal advance granted. Highest
Rates given for Fixed Deposits
HUGH SH ARPE, Acting Manager.
PROPERTIES FOR SALK
SMALL DEPOSITS AND EASY TERMS.
AUBURN. Three and four-roomed
COTTAGES on allotments
66ft. by 150 ft.
BALMAIN. Three-rt)om ed COT-
TAGES, in the healthiest
part of the suburb.
KOGARAH. Six-roomed COTTAGES
on the Seaview Estate.
KOGARAH. COTTAGE VILLA, 6
rooms, bath-room, stable,
&c., on the RHINE-
LANDS ESTATE ; splen-
did view from gallery on roof.
KOGARAH. ITALIAN VILLA,
Forest Road, 8 rooms,
kitchen, &c.
LEWISHAM. Six-roomed COTTAGE,
Shortland Street, off Vic-
toria Road, on 100 x 140
MARRIOKVILLE. Five-roomed COTTAGES
in the best part of Marrick-
ville, overlooking the charm-
ing SHRUBLANDS
ESTATE.
WAVERLEY. A six-roomed HOUSE,
near to tram fine view of
the ocean.
Apply to S. H. LEWIS, Sydney and Suburban
Building Association, 114 Pitt Street, opposite
G. P. O.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watch Manufacturer and Jeweller,
LONDON, LIVERPOOL, AND
813 GEORGE STREET,
NEARLY OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.
SYDNEY BRANCH.
Christmas Presents! Christmas Presents!
SEND FOB MY PRICE LIST , Post Free,
And Compare my English Levers and Jewellery
with any other at double the amount.
I sell direct from the Manufactory at
Half the Usual Prices,
Everything Guaranteed with a Written
Certificate, and sent Post Free.
A 3 10s. Worth £7 7s. My unequalled English
Lever, full covered cap, 3 years’ guarantee.
£4 10s. Worth £9. English Lever, compensa-
tion balance, 11 jewels, 4 years’ guarantee.
£5. Worth £lO. English Lever, compensation
balance adjusted, 13 jewels, full covered cap,
4 years’ guarantee.
Ladies’ Silver Watches.
No. I—Silver Open Face, £lss. 2—Extra-finished,
£lloa. 3—Double -case, £2. 4—Superior, £2 15s.
s—Keyless, full-jewelled, £3, £3 10.
All Guaranteed. Send for Price List.
The Unrivalled Keyless 9flQ_
Watch, 6 jewels, < “ Ua ‘
Written Guarantee.
This is the Cheapest Watch in the World.
Jewellery. Jewellery.
Just Arrived. Christmas Presents.
Chains, Brooches, Ear-rings, Necklaces, Lockets.
Everything to adorn the beautiful.
Visitors to Sydney. —Whatever you want in
Watches or Jewellery, send or come to me. I will
guarantee to please you. Old jewellery re-made.
Watch repairs guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS,
813 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Nearly opposite Railway Station.
JpUZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the Sleepy Nigger.
'Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address NORTON WADE, care of A. LUSBY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
HENRT KING ,
Portraitist and Landscape Photographer.
316 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Between General Post Ofeice and Hunter Street.
HAS in Stock and is prepared to supply High-class Photographs of Sydney—its Streets and
Public Buildings, Botanical and Zoological Gardens, “Our Beautiful Harbour,” and
National Art Gallery, Blue Mountains and Jenolan Caves, Hawkeshury and Nepean Rivers,
Aboriginal Studies, &fc., &c. ; Principal Yachting, Sailing, and Harbour Craft and Ocean Steamships
Visiting this Port.
Standard Series—Size, Sin. by «in.—Price, 18s. per do/,.
The Views are kept in Stock unmounted, and can be made up in Album Form at Short Notice.
£3T Orders Forwarded by Post, securely packed on rollers, on Receipt of Remittance, ‘SI
X : X : x
CATALOGUES FORWARDED ON APPLICATION.
Recipient of the Highest Awards Melbourne Exhibition, 1888; Sydney
Centennial Intercolonial Exhibition, 1888 ; &c, &c.
Grosvenor Hotel,,
Grosvenor Hotel Co., Limited,
CIIUBCH HILL, SYDNEY,
overlooking the Harbour.
mHIS Maonipicbnt Hotel is now open,
*- and will be conducted on the best
methods of similar Amerioan and Euro-
pean establishments.
It is centrally situated, is built on the
most elevated site in Sydney, and the
salubrity of its situation renders it
the Hotel par excellence for Tourists,
Families, Foreign and Intercolonial
Visitors.
Telegraph and Telephone Offices
established in the building.
Over £lO,OOO has been expended in
Furniture.
It is lit throughout with Eleotrio
Light and Gas, and has a Furnished
Smoke Room in the Golden Dome of the
Promenade Mansard Roof, which is
reached by an Otis Travelling Lift, and
from which are obtainable the Finest
Panoramic Views of the City and
Harbour.
The Grosvenor Drag will meet all
Trains on their arrival in Sydney from
Bathurst, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. Applications for Apartments
are now invited.
J. ROWAN, Manager.
m
Telegraphic and other communications to be addressed to the Manager.
BXSISB-A.35TE3 § IsCOTJSId,
LAUNCESTOR, T AS IN AN I A.
; u
11'
\"- v
■f '*
a mu
71
irerf
V A ftti liitt' V
A.etttUSK
• f i
EIEtTRIC PHOTQ-ENQ. 00, 8 BBIDCE-ST-. BVDNEV-
A. DELESTSE _ _ _
Proprietor,
FIEST-CLiiSS HOUSE,
Wines, Frsnoh Liquors l Havana Cigars a Speciality Boise, Cuisine Francaise.r
M'IiEAN BROS., RIGG, & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
0
SPECIALITIES :
Davis’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Paint, Albo Carbon Light
ELECTRO-PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES LEONIS FLETCHER’S, JEANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &c.
GALLEY
Brand
WHISKY,
Now SO
Popular.
The Only
Positive
Antidote
to
What
Mr. BROWN
Saw!
GBD. GBD. GBD
SMOKE NOTHING BUT
G.B.D. PIPES
The Nest in the World.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Mis Usikiit l tig.,
231 CLARENCE STREET
DOWS
EMBROCATIONS
s- i
i As
3
0:-o>S f”
if’j
-Vf
\SOLO
BRUCE & MASSEY,
197 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music.
Gash, or Time Payments.
CATALOGUES—POST FREE.
(EPIJe-ntidfciSß
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whits
Patrot Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
fbs unmHlr U «wr»leinlW roeil .nrl thr p,|r f v „p t ew


De Tomkyns was seen going out to Coogee with a good stick. He was seen coming
back withoub one.
usmess “Announcements.
LtS.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
ABOUT
COMMENCING BUSINESS,
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chairs,
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
(S' EVERT REQUISITE
AT
©
PRICES WHICH DEFT COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM’
BRAND OF
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
FROM
£lO UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
Craig £ Aitken,
New South Wales
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Price Lift P«wr*» ow Affuciabb**.
The removal of the N.S.W. exhibits from
Melbourne Exhibition will begin on February 1
and be completed by March 31. Up to the 4th of
the present month, the total expense incurred by
N.S.W. was £10,835 53. lid.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
Old Fort, Olarei, Hook, Sherry, Ronslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, Ssc. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, ohemist, near Klng.street.*
390 a GEORGE S T
The Sydney Sporting Life says that a
prominent Sydney fightiug man denounces the
local press in these words :
“The fourth estate be blowcd, blank the blooming
Press ; a bottle o’ gin would buy all the reporters in
Sydney, though as they’re such a promixus lot, maybe
’twould be better to give every man his own tipple and
then repeat the dose. ’
From which we gather that Editor Conway is a
fearless individual who is ready to wallop the
whole local Press should it chance to come around
demanding vengeance for this insult
William’s Australian Inseotlold Is death to all Insects.
Simple In application—eure In efieot. This Is the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being oertaln death to
all kinds ol insects, while it Is perfeotly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseoticide has no equal—as the fumeß ff
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaoeutloal Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs KUlott Bros-,
and B. Prosser & Co.*
el
O
JR Hk T
T- N O
M U =
KMT
yftCENTS, £>
DELISSAI PHILLIPS
> 3s, J Barmck Street.
t’BA AND BAST3ERN MERCHANTS,
SO. 78 ©LAREMBS STREET, SYBREY.
dL*bve
(n
■ 0
Execute Indents for all Eastern Produce
AND PAY
Particular Attention to the Buying of Tens.
Indents are Executed on the most Eavourable Terms.
Jones’ SeTX7-ixe.gr 2v£a,c!to.in.©s,
—— FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FAR LEIGH, NETT HEIM A So,, Tanners and Leather Merchants,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
o
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all Details, including Machinery,
Imported Leather?, &c. ; and of the following Special Lines : PEERLESS GLOSS, S A.TIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING. Tanners Tools and Materials. ladents executed on Eavourable Term*.
DR. RICHARD,
I, CO
D*RiCHARDS
rt¥i
m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chlel
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly invests
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practioe
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedi-
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation In a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private o>
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
r>n reoeipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
ijd courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
In the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
oared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to A ustralia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spri ng Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Mire te Menton this paper when writing.
OmnevrrATTO* Fmm*


Seal-and-shark fights were the attraction
in Sydney last summer. This season, Seale-and-
Sandall fights promise to satisfy the local cravings
for be-lud.
Editor Conway, of the Sydney Licentious
Victuallers’ organ, regretteththe good old times: —
“ In those days it was not necessary for a man to
enter any ‘ little side door,’ nor was he ashamed to
tell his wife that he was intoxicated and she must
take care of him.” Verily, these are degenerate
days.
Early in the sixties, before the Navy had
quite gone—although all of the old school were
certain it was fast going—to the devil, when a
blue-jacket or marine took his “ four-bag ”■—as
four dozen lashes was called on the lower deck —
before even making a wry face,
a 21-gun corvette was heading for Simon’s
Bay, S. Africa, on her voyage from Rio to New
Zealand, whither she was bound to take the place
of the ill-fated Orpheus, a few months previously
culpably lost, with the majority of her officers and
crew, on the Manukau bar. The night was dark
and squally, with blirding showers of rain, when,
about the middle of the first watch, the cry,
“ Man overboard !” cleared the lower deck in a
trice—the men tumbling up the hatches to their
stations to shorten sail. In a “ brace of shakes ”
(nautical for the “ quickest time on record ”) the
second cutter was lowered in charge of poor M ,
who was afterwards shot through the lungs on
board a gun-boat on the Waikato, and lights were
hung in the rigging as a guide to the lifeboat’s
crew when they should wish to return to the
ship with or without —all on board expected
without—the poor devil of a cat-head look-out,
who, it was supposed, had dozed at his post, and
had been knocked overboard by the lifting of the
fore-tack. Now, on this particular cruise, while
passing through the tropics, several men had been
found asleep on the look-out, and the captain—
who also lost his life while crawling on his hands
and knees towards the enemy, at the Gate Pah
(Tauranga)—had promised to flog the next man
found “endangering the lives of his shipmates by
so gross a dereliction of duty.” To return to the
man overboard. Anxiously they all looked for the
return of the cutter, and, after some half-hour’s
suspense, the thud of the oars in the rowlocks was
heard as the boat neared the ship. “Have you
seen anything of the man or the life-buoy ?” cried
the captain. “Yep, sir, we have him on board,”
returned poor M . In a few more minutes the
cutter was hooked on, hoisted to the davits, the
yards trimmed, and our ship on her course again.
Now comes the strange part of the affair. When
the boat was pulling here and there tt
the water—for the life-buoy, as usual, .
to light up on its descent, and so t
was little to guide the boat to the man .
had so nearly “lost the number of his mess
voice from the vasty deep was heard singing oi
“ I wasn’t asleep, sir ; indeed I wasn’t 1 ” Emula
ing the coolness of the man who said that tht-
house being on fire was no concern of his, as he
was only a lodger, this man, clinging to a life-buoy
which he had managed to grasp as he was swept
under the counter, had no thought for his marvel-
lous rescue from a terrible death, but his only fear
was that as soon as he got on board he would be
triced up and receive “ four-bag ” for being asleep
on the look-out. It is perhaps needless to state
that his pleasant anticipations on this score were
not realised, it being no doubt considered that he
had been punished sufficiently.
BEHAN’S
Black Oils
OR
EMBROCATION,
FOR
BOSSES, CATTLE l BOBS.
Will make Hair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE ;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF JOINTS aud ENLARGE-
MENTS.
Prepared Only by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Kedfern.
Wholesale :
Elliott Bros., Australian Drug Co , S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 383 George Street, and Butler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Sydney ; Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Brisbane ; E. Fletcher, Junr.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, Y.S., 33 Pitt Street, Kedfern.
PRICE ... 3s. 6d. Per Bottle.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the ciivlised world where
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficient action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxpord-st., London. SSF Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street; London, they are
spurious.
P. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
m- WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS &0., &C. IF*
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES;
John Jamesons Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Dork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac's Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
OS’ The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes SW All B ands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Singly Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
*3T SEND FOR A PRICE LIST. TS&
MST-CLASS LADIES 1 REFRESHMENT ROOM ani LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Road.
HEAD OFFICE-GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAC
5
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, 'WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE AND LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
A. BOWMAN’ 8
LONDON MADE
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
349 PITT ST., SYI4YEY (Year Tattersall's.)
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long is
any other leather.
THEY ARE NOTED ALL OYER LONDON,
BIRMINGHAM and LIVERPOOL.
E3T LONDON FASHIONS
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight !
MASON BROTHERS,
'
(limited,)
263 to 269 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale
to the Trade and Wholesale
Buyers Only,
IRONMONGERY
AND
GENERAL H ARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
ANI>
EARTHE N W A R E.
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
•T. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIAN
AT THE
Wertlxeim
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
IHuSnUsTIPOWIEE
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBS ITUTE FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TEA-OASES, PASTRY* &e. a
ARB
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Povder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SKA,
& BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS.
SOLD IN TINS AT od. THE HALF POUND,
Or. 3T- PICKLES <s© SOZfcTS, Caxxiagre Bia.lld.exs.
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OE ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository: -6, 7,9, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE;
Metropolitan Manufactory: - 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
“ Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
Herb RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cure for Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address -
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasfitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers.
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prioes— ll,ooo Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 9 JSucquarie Place, Sydney, and Slaiiniorc Road, Petersham.


THE RECENT RAIN AND PRAYERS FOR RAIN.
The reverend gentleman asked for bread and he got a half-brick.
“MOST ANNOYING! THERE MUST BE SOME MISUNDER-
STANDING —I AM SURE THIS SORT OF THING WAS
NEVER EVEN HINTED AT IN MY PRAYERS!”
This ia the season of the year when
Christmas boxes are in vogue. The best one yet
discovered is a dozen bottles of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
Attention is directed to the Private
Inquiry office of Mr. E B. Harris, Sydney
Arcade. Employers will do well to consult him,
and in divorce matters he is a specialist.
William Wright, who entered the N.S.W.
police force in 1861, and was six years afterwards
made a sub-inspector for his share in capturing
the Clarkes, and at which grade he has remained
ever since, died very suddenly last week near
Walgett while travelling in the bush on duty.
The Victorian Paper Mill Company, with
a capibal of £120,000, in 60,000 shares of £2 each,
has been placed on the market, and the shares are
being rapidly taken up. The mills the company
take over are situate at Geelong (Vic.), and for a
long time past have been worked at their fullest
capacity, having, indeed, been unable to overtake
the orders. Last year the operations of the busi-
ness showed a net profit of over £5OOO. The eager-
ness with which the shares are being taken up is an
evidence that there is plenty of Australian capital
available for investment in genuine enterprises,
and this is just one of the industries that deserve
the support of all classes of the community.
It was 14 years since a female poisoner
was convicbed in Australia till Louisa Collins, of
Botany, was found guilty of making it rough on
one or two husbands of hers with “ Rough on
Rabs.” Aboub 1874, Ann Minniver Davis was
tried in the Melbourne Supreme Court for the
attempted murder of her husband by strychnine.
The Davises lived out Caulfield way, where the
husband was a farmer or market gardener. Mrs.
Davis had an illicit lover to whom she wrote
letters at the end of which were several ** *,
which, it was explained at the trial, meant kisses.
While professing undying love and affection for
her “old man,” this woman mad 9 several attempts
to get him out of the way, but she was bowled oub
herself and sentenced to death. The sentence
was commuted to imprisonment for life and
while in the Melbourne Gaol Madame Davis was
appointed general servant to the late Governor
Castieau. The house of that genial Yorick Club
man was part and parcel of the prison, but had a
private entrance of its own from the street facing
a delightful garden. One day (or night) Ann
Minniver simply walked out by the front door,
leaving her prison-clothes huldltd up in a corner
of Castieau’s kitchen. It was assumed that she
wore other clothes when she left, but how she
came by them no one could tell. The police at
once went in search of Mrs. Davis, but for a
long time no trace of her could be obbained. At
length one day a constable was out Malvern way
on some business when he saw a woman standing
at a cottage door whom he thought answered the
published description of Mrs. D., the fugitive
husband-poisoner. “Hallo, Mrs. Davis, how are
ye gettin’ on ?” sez he, at random like. “ Fine, I
thank ye kindly,” says the woman. So the intelli-
gent “copper” made what the newspapers next
day called “ A Clever Capture,” and Mrs. Davis
is still in Melbourne Gaol, and Mr. Davis, poor
man, can’t marry unless Shiels’s Divorce Exten-
sion Bill goes through the House.
BOSISTO’S original and genuine
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the be it Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica Sprainß,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
mothß. In the stable it is valuabJe tor broken
knees, cuts, &0., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s *• Parrot" brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only ead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all ohemists. Bosisto’s " Parrot ' rand.
The most profitable use for a fewpounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co.. Ltd.. B 6 Bathurst street
We are told that on and around the estate
of Messrs. Burns, Withers, and Smith, M sP,, at
Hornsby, Sydney, the State-paid “unemployed”
have constructed over eight miles of roads, and on
the Holt-Sutherland estate, in which members of
Parliament, Sir John Robertson, and other in-
fluential personages are shareholders, they have
made over 43 miles of roads !
Beaver & Everett,
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
(Pew doors from George-street).
To our Friends and the Public.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —We beg to inform
you that after a period of 38 and 20 years respec-
tively in the employ of the well-known firm of
Flavelle & Roberts, George-street, we have
commenced business at the above address as
Jewellers Watchmakers- — Opticians
AND
Diamond Setters,
and trust with such a long and practical experi-
ence to merit your generous support.
The Latest Designs in Jewellery, Watches
and Clocks.
Large Stock of Spectacles and Optics.
Repairing Department a Speciality.
Yours faithfully,
BEAVER & EVERETT.
rjl 0 SUFFERERS.
CONSULT PERSONALLY OR BY LETTER
Cowan and Anderson,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
ON ALL CHRONIC DISEASE 3.
THEY Treat and Cure all Chronic, Nervous,
and Special Diseases of both sexes on the
ECLECTIC PRINCIPLE.
CONSULTATION and ADVICE FREE.
Absolute Secrecy observed in all cases.
N.B.—Medicines forwarded, free from observation and
securely packed, to all parts of the Colonies.
Note the Address :
COWAN AND ANDERSON,
ECLECTIC PHYSICIANS,
Oxford Herbal Dispensary, ■
132 Elisabeth Stmt, Hyde Park, Sydney.
HARRIS’S Missing Friends, Confidential, and
Private Enquiry Office, 53 Sydney Arcade,
entrance King or George streets (late of R. M.
Riley’s Private Detective Agency).
Evidence collected in DIVORCE, LIBEL,
FRAUD, BIGAMY, BREACH OF PROMISE,
and all kind 3 of confidential enquiries instituted.
Private enquiries conducted solely by Mr.
Harris.
Copies of WILLS, certificates of BIRTH,
MARRIAGE, or DEATH, obtained in any part
of the world.
E.B.H. having established Agencies in all parts
of the Globe, he is in a position to conduct all in-
quiries with caution, expedition, and strict secrecy,
and to promptly attend to all business entrusted
to his care.
Business transacted in four different languages.
No connection with any other office.
Address, 53 Sydney Arcade.
Beach wisely says he has rowed his last
professional race. Whatever his ideas on the
subject may have been before going to Brisbane,
his tussle with Searle has no doubt shown him
that youth must be served.
Foley is giving £3OO to be competed for
by amateur and professional boxers in about 10
weeks’ time. Trophies to the value of £2OO are
set aside for the amateurs, which will, perhaps,
biing Messrs. S3ale and Srndall together again.
We say “perhaps” advisedly, for Sandall just
now swears he will never box at Larry’s again.
Send for Plans, Perth City and Suburban Allot-
ments. The Intercolonial Investment Com-
pany, 96 Babhurst-sbreeb, Sydney.
A young woman has been arresbedin Eng-
land, charged with writing letters to a newspaper
purporting to be from “ Jack the Ripper.” She
said she “ merely wanted to cause a sensation.”
Women generally do.
Send for Plans, Perbh City and Suburban Allot-
ments. The Intercolonial Investment Com-
pany, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
?V OWTMF,NT TO g BR
ELMIOH Si CO., LIIDIED,
t HK “ LONDON”
SILVERSMITHS
AND
" JEWELLERS,
384 = GEORGE = STREET,
S"2T3DI^TE2"Sr.
Between the POST OFFICE and KING STREET.
GROTH,J°<&C?
FO
yf E |4aH g| H gS
O/LS
&lfa/J/sm/
Brush war//
Colours/
m
x M
mm
si-Xl
Mi
Wmsm
AniD
r.uiitiirrn'JHk
AW\P VJE.S&X 3^VCESf ?
Sheep MARft/Ntf Oil ,
Lamp bla ck & f^a,ddle.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
psM
'A'
A
J
=s^
OW is the time to secure a Splendid SITE in the BEST and CHEAPEST SUBDI\ ISION
in the Market,
Beautiful Positions ! Splendid Rich Soil!
The Land is all Cleared and Stumped — Ha'f-a-mile from Ingleburn Station, just beyond Liverpool,
£ 4
Each Lot has 30ft . Frontage by 150 ft. Depth, and the Price is only
Fo-clt rE?o\a.xa.d.s !
nr PER LOT. •*»
£4
Terms 10s. Deposit; Balance, ss. per Month.' No Interest. Torrens’ Title. Free Transfers.
10 per cent, discount for Nett Cash.
The Land is all perfectly level—no gullies or rocks,
money will be refunded. Look at the Price and Terms,
in'ormation.
This Estate is guaranteed as described or
Do not delay, but send for plans and full
YOUNG & YULE,
60 HUNTER and BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.


PREMIER BUILDING ASSOCIATION,
54 Oollins Street East, Melbourne.
Year Ending
Oct., 1884.
Subscribed Capital ... £110,400
Paid-up and Accrued Capital 28,692
Deposits Keceived ... 48,906
Adva ces Made ... 40,385
Total Income ... 86,305
Year Ending
Oct., 1885.
£180,425
61,630
93,581
123,248
200,106
Year Ending
Oct., 1886.
£350,000
120,000
261,500
247,840
451,085
Year Ending
Oct., 1887.
£431,125
206,685
391,356
307,828
797,990
Year Ending
Oct., 1888.
£5BO 000
251,015
1 123,949
625,826
2,048,951
QAN BE OBTAINED AT
ANY TIME
upon Payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Pee, and the payments
upon these Shares are Is per
Forti ight until such Payments,
together with Conrpound la-
tere t, amount to £25, when
that snm 0 paid over to their
holders in Cadi. The holders of
the First Issue of these Shares
received in October, 1885, £26
fs. 94 ; towards which sum they
had Contributed only £l4 6s,
at the rate of Is. per Fortnight
for ML years.
mm f
SMJ
L-Basse^i
11. 1 I
MM*
IWli
m
wm
' ' ; i
■*-4?
‘
..■djisssssi!
S?Z
ta^jg^av^
<=E)
1
fir?
QAN BE OBTAINED AT
ANY TIME
upon Payment of Is. per Share
Entrance Pee, und the payments
upo t iliese Shares are Is. per
Portnight until such Payments,
together >yith Compound Ip-
tv yest, apiount to £25, when
that sum is paid over to their
holders in Cash.® The holders of
fhe Pin t Issue of these Shares
re eived ip October, 1885, £26
Is. 9d., t wards which sum they
had Contributed only £l4 6s.
at the rate of Is. per P< rtnight
for 11 years.
To persons w lio desire to put by smalt sums of uncertain amount, and who wish to
secure INTEREST upon .such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for Every day that their
deposits remain at the Bank, this Branch offers the very best opportunity. Depositors
in this branch receive FIVE per cent per annum upon their Daily Balance.
AMPLE FUNDS FOR BORROWERS.
TERMS LIBERAL.
Deposits received at Following Bates :-Twe!ve Months, 7 per cent, per Annum; Six Months. 6 per cent
Three Months, 5 per cent. Special terms tor Longer Periods.
Premier Build ng Association/ 54 Collins Street East, Mourns.
Hon. J KM EIMMO, M.P., J.P., Chairman.
WILLIAM DOHERTY, Acting Secretary.


Prof. A. Cadwallader, Phrenologist.
A few years ago an itinerant philosopher,
with long hair, a large, dark, dreamy eye and an
appetite that left its mark on the times, and was
at once the bane and wonder of all the publicans
and refreshment-purveyors with whom it came in
contact, used to perambulate over the landscape
in Victoria, feeling bumps from door to door, con-
tracting for the erection of phrenological charts,
and casting the heaviest horoscopes for a small fee
or a dinner, or damaged hat, or any other article
of apparel or domestic commodity that he hap-
pened to l>9 short of at the time. The name that
lie travelled on was Professor Ambrose Cadwal-
lader, but he answered to the name of Green in
private. The Professor was long and lean, with a
saturnine countenance and a nose like the handle
of a Dutch oven. He pursued his peregrinations
on foot, and roamed the length and breadth of the
land in easy stages, relying on the charming
naivete of the gullable agriculturists and the con-
fiding dispositions of the dwellers in townships
and hamlets for the wherewithal to purchase bread
and bed. Professor Cadwallader’s most valuable
attribute was his immensity of cheek —he had
acquired all the artful patter of a craniological
expert, and carried in a deplorable old bag
plaster casts of the heads of two popular
murderers, a poet, and Graham Berry, along
With the skull of a baboon, which did duty as
the casket of the faculties of a recently-
deceased scion of England’s old nobility ;
but his cheek was his great mainstay, his
Comfort in tribulation, and sure support in his
hour of need. His effrontery was sublime; like
the Matterhorn, so dense, so great and gloomy, so
impervious, so unconquerable ; it had no equal in
history. It was proof against sarcasm, prayer,
and brute force, and bore him to meals uninvited —
even in the teeth of verbal protests; it gave him
strength to return and make a shake-down on the
sofa of the man who had kicked him through a slip-
rail half-an-hour earlier; it over-rode all opposi-
tion and broke down every barrier ; it was awful
in its grim stoicism, and appeared so unconscious
in its dread magnificence that anger was disarmed
and amusement gave place to wonder and dismay.
The Professor would drop in at a farm-house on
business and stay two days devouring every edible
thing within reach, like a plague of locusts, sleep-
ing in the best bed, if possible, and occupying
valuable space, blandly serene, whilst the people
trod on his feet, passed disparaging remarks about
his personal appearance, and dropped irons and
other hints that his room was preferable to his
company; and then he would charge 7s. 6d. for
professional advice that had never been solicited,
appropriate some portable valuable, and bid them
all an affectionate adieu. One morning the phre-
nological mendicant entered the home of a settler
near Tallarook and felt the bumps of the house-
father by force; then he sat down to breakfast on
his own responsibility and engulfed about half
a hundredweight of solid victuals; whilst the host
squatted in a corner, paralyzed with consternation,
and gazed stupidly on the devouring pestilence-
personified that had descended on his home. Pro-
fessor Cadwallader took off his boots, and re-
mained to dinner; after which he called for
whisky-and-water, and went to sleep on a form ;
during the whole of which time the property-
holder remained dazed in his corner, gaping like
one stricken at the intruder, only closing his
mouth occasionally to give a despairing little
swallow, and concentrating his few remaining
faculties on the incomprehensible problem that
beset him. Towards sundown the Professor took
the settler’s best hat from a peg, leaving his own
crippled beaver in its place, handed in a bill for
half a guinea, packed a lot of loose provisions in
his bag, and departed with many expressions of
regret; and still, and for half-an-hour after his
departure, the settler sat and gazed at the spot he
had last occupied, gaping, and thinking with a
strained determination that threatened to rupture
an artery. At length the reclaimer of the wilds
seemed to grasp the late situation, and he shook
himself up, and, going out to the wood-pile,
selected an easily-wielded club. His weeping
wife endeavoured to restrain him, but he waved
her off doggedly, and started down the road on
the track of his recent guest. The pastoralist
came up with the phrenologist at a wayside inn
five miles off, and, without staying to state his
case, or advance any arguments, proceeded to
pound the minister of a noble science in a brutal
manner, that reflected little credit on his civilisa-
tion. After which he returned as silently as he
had come.
* * *
The Profeasor was imposed upon on other
occasions that are painful to contemplate. When
he struck a township where money was cheap and
the inhabitants seemed athirst for knowledge and
anxious to know themselves, he was wont to de-
liver a lecture on “Phrenology in its Relation to
Morality,” illustrated by the plaster casts, the
braiu-pan of the baboon, and a few sketches of the
heads of local celebrities who had won parochial
fame by personal virtues, or by killing their wives,
or robbing a church. Early in the summer of ’Bl,
Professor Cadwallader was stranded in a prosperous
mining township in the county of Gladstone, and,
finding money loose and the residents disposed to
drink at the fountain of lore, he hired the Shire
Hall, and chalked in conspicuous positions the
proclamation that the world-famed Dr, Ambrose
Cadwallader, professor of phrenology, would de-
liver his popular lecture on “Phrenology in its
Relation to Morality ” on the following evening.
To give the oration a local flavour, the Professor
commissioned a young journalist in straightened
circumstances and very old clothes, who was put-
ting up at the same boarding-house as himself, and
who had a talent for sketching faces, to provide
him with Bpeaking outlines of the features of past
and present notorieties pertaining to the town ;
and he gave the reduced pressman half-a-guinea
down and the promise of another on receiving the
portraits, along with the names and weights and a
brief biography of each subject, strictly stipula-
ting that their points should be made prominent
and the likenesses striking. Now it was inexpe-
dient to provide the extempore artist with a medium
of exchange at that stage of the undertaking, as
his taste for rum was stronger than his taste for
arb, and was always afforded precedence when
the means to that end were available, and when
indulging in the former passion he was apt to lose
sight of moral obligations and repudiate his most
sacred duties, or develop an unseemly levity and
prostitute his abilities and outrage the confidence
that had been reposed in him by playing some de-
praved practical lark on his patrons. After im-
bibing divers exhilarating stimulants, this unworthy
representative of the press begot the impression
that it would be clever and creditable to betray the
trust of a friendless stranger, and lay the world-
famed Dr. Cadwallader open to insult and injury,
by attaching the fame of the disreputable charac-
ters who had won prominence in the town to the
likenesses of the virtuous and gifted celebrities,
and 'Vice versa. He did this ignoble thing, and
received his price without a tremor. Professor
Ambrose drew an overflowing house on the night
appointed ; his audience was intelligent and dis-
criminating, and bore his aggravating preamble
about frontal development, pineal glands, fistula-
tory reticulatory glands, upper ganglia, and an-
terior lobes, with patient decorum. The Pro-
fessor Was resplendent in a borrowed coat; he had
washed his neck and brushed up his hair and in-
tensified his classical air by donning the wire-
work of a pair of spectacles-the glass being sacri-
ficed to exigencies of vision. He was in his best
form and threw out observations bearing on the
seat of the soul, mesmeric coma, mucous membrane,
and cranial conformation, with reckless extrava-
gance ; but the audience manifested little interest
till he attacked the local celebrities,
* » *
The first sketch presented was a striking
likeness of a highly-respected resident, superin-
tendent of Sunday school, verger, and chief philan-
thropist, but the fallen pressman had presented
him with the biography of an unconscionable despe-
rado who once brained a policeman with a bottle,
and was notorious in the neighbourhood as a con-
victed horse-stealer. “ Ladies and gentlemen,”
said the Professor, tapping the sketch which was
displayed on an impromptu easel, with a cane,
and clearing his throat, “ the head now before
you, which, doubtless, you all recognise, is remark-
able for its lack of all the finer points characteristic
of the cranium of a good citizen, and for its abnor-
mal development of the baser bumps. We find
veneration, philoprogenitiveness, ideality, spiri-
tuality, and the social, conjugal, and moral facul-
ties entirely wanting, whilst bibativeness, acquisi-
tiveness, destruction, cruelty, and deceit stand
out prominently. The physiognomy is expressive
of brutality and low cunning. That man is a
danger to society and liable to fly up and abruptly
terminate the existence of his friends and relations
without rhyme or reason.” Professor Cadwallader
went on to say that the original of the sketch
before them was a kleptomaniac and an infidel
of a particularly virulent type ; he had no
honour, no morality, no poetry, and would
burn his own father for a small considera-
tion in gold. The audience was astounded, the
people gaz°d into each other’s faces, and thought
with horror of the possibility of their being
brained with the contribution-box at church on
the following Sunday; several rose to protest in a
feeble, half hearted way, but slowly subsided
again as the Professor surged ahead with his
deluge of platitudes. Presently he huDg up a
head which everyone present recognised as that of
a notorious scamp who was serving ten years’ for
jumping the life out of his wife in a fit of vinous
delirium, and contrasted it, greatly to the advan-
tage of the wife-killer, with the cranium of the
superintendent, and held the head of the convict
up for emulation and universal approbation.
“ Here again, ladies and gentlemen,” observed the
misguided phrenologist, hanging out the visage of
the pastor of the local Methodist flock, a mild man
with straw'coloured hair and gentle impulses, “we
see a very low type of head. Combativeness very
strongly marked, destructiveness conspicuous,
veneration entirely absent, reason, language,
paternal love, and social qualities particularly
small This man might be a prize pugilist—he
longs to kick and kill, to gouge and tear. Avoid
him ; watch your children and your poultry when
he comes out of gaol.” After this the Professor
sailed in, and ruthlessly upset all the most sacred
opinions of his audience, glorified pronounced
seoundrels who had won unsavory fame in every
style of rascality, from chicken-stealing to man-
slaughter, and proved by deduction from experi-
ence, by contrast with his plaster casts, and by sound
argument based on craniological comparisons and
a perfect knowledge of cerebral formation, that
those men whom they'revered and respected for their
excellent qualities of heart and mind were capable
of all kinds of infamy, and lying in wait to shock
the community by perpetrating a series of dia-
bolical outrages on the widow and the orphan.
As the evening wore on Dr. Cadwallader
hung out another familiar face, that of Curly
Davis, the manager of the Hit or Miss Mine, who
enjoyed the reputation of being a jolly good fellow,
and having done up Slippery Mick in four rounds,
and then the excitement became intense, the pre-
sence of Mr. Davis in a front seat adding fresh
interest to the proceedings. “This head,” said
the Professor, referring to the notes of the literary
young man with the taste for rum, “is of a type
very common amongst Queensland aborigines,
and has many points in common with that of the
orang-outang or man-monkey. The cerebral oapacity
is large, as is frequently found in idiots. The
” But here the lecture terminated abruptly.
Curly Davis was upon the lecturer. “ What’s
that, you long-haired foot-pad ? I’ll teach you all
about orang-outangs, you knock-kneed, splay-
footed erhoul! Take that!” The Professor took
it. “And that! and that!” The Professor ac-
cepted these also with evident surprise. Two or
three members of the audience, stimulated by
example, now came forward, and pressed similar
favours upon him, as a practical vindication of the
characters of friends and relatives whom he had
maligned earlier in the evening. The audience
then got up as one distempered individual, and
betrayed its sentiments by throwing the furniture
at the itinerant phrenologist, outsiders came in
with decayed vegetation and defunct animals,
and projected them at the devoted Professor
with unerring aim; eggs and refuse butter were
ordered from the corner store, and when the
lights were extinguished Dr. Cadwallader crawled
from under the wreckage and escaped from the
township in a fearful state of gore and disorder.
He never returned to demand an explanation, or
claim his plaster casts and the skull of the scion of
the old nobility, and died a few months later when
peddling a world-renowned nostrum of his own in-
vention. His true and trusty cheek did not desert
him to the last, He died in the house of an utter
stranger, and left his body on the hands of a
struggling man with a large family.
A German pawnbroker In Sydney la
blessed with one daughter, who now and then
“keeps shop” while her father attends sales
on the look-out for bargainsh. During the
temporary absence of the old Mosesh recently,
the shadow of a meek-looking Chow mingled
with the spectra of the three golden balls on the
pavement in front of the hypothecating saloon
and the saffron-hued owner of the shadow, asked
Rachel to show him some “ welly good
watchee.” Rachel handed down four from
the jewellery shelf at the end of the
marked respectively “ £lO wateh,” “ £8 watch,”
“£6 watch,” and “£2 watch,” and ar-
ranged them in a line on the counter from
right to left, in the order of their value. John in-
spected the watches, and, taking advantage of
Rachel’s momentary inattention, slipped the £2
watch into the place occupied by the £8 one, and
vice versa. When Rachel was again all attention
he picked up the £8 watch, and said, “I takee
thisee cheapee watchee,” handed over the £2 and
trotted off. Shortly after Rachel detected the
swindle, and sought refuge in tears. On the re-
turn of old Mosesh she related the misadventure
with many protestations of concern. “Never
mind, mine tear,” said her father, with a dry
chuckle, “dosevatches vare all de same brice—
dirty shillings; but vat a tam schoundrel dot
Shinaman moust pe !”
The Baileys’ Hut memorial Stone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On viewing the stone ereoted by the Hon, P. Russell,
Carngham, Victoria, on “ The spot on which the Baileys
erected their hut in 1839.” The stone on whioh the
meagre inscription is written is to be found just off the
grass-grown road between the small townships of Carng-
ham and Trawalla. It is a small bluestone slab, almost
hidden among the tussocks, and seldom seen save by some
chance sheep or melancholy crow.
“ The spot on which the Baileys built their hut
in ’39!”
But why, dark stone, not give us an explanatory
line?
Full many a lonely wand’rer here may pass, whose
stranger ears
Have never heard the Baileys were the local
pioneers;
That, by undaunted spirits led, they crossed these
lonely plains
To found new settlements beyond the reach of
Old World chains
That centuries of tyranny have forged to bind the
hand;
Yea ! e’en the mind of him who forms the wealth
of every land.
Brave men ! To you all honour’s due. Your work
was well begun.
Nigh fifty years have fled, and what have your
successors done ?
’Tis true a few bare fences stretch across these
lonely plains,
And here and there some mansion fair amid the
silence reigns;
’Tis true that myriad self-reared sheep the
shearer’s bows await,
But still the life-stored soil remains within its
virgin state.
Yes, in its virgin state ! while from Want’s black
Hadean void
Comes forth the never-ending wail of thousands
unemployed—
Strong, honest men whom God has sent to till His
beauteous earth.
With willing hands they come. Too late ! Blind
laws have given birth
To grim Monopoly, who sits upon his fool-built
throne
Proclaiming with a raven’s croak, “These lands
are all my own !
I have the title-deeds, and I securely here can
sleep.
Back to your law-appointed bounds! I want
nought here but sheep !
The law allows them not, for food, to turn the
fruitful sod,
The law of man stands victor o’er the primal law
of God !
The savage on these very plains, but fifty years
ago,
Could dig his yams at will and not the least
objection know;
But “ Mighty Progress ” came to wake the land
from idle sleep—
She robbed the savage of his grounds and gave
them o’er —to sheep;
She flaunted o’er the land a flag she loudly styled
“ the free ”
That now bids fair to soon become a flag of
tyranny.
0, brothers ! ’tis within our power to turn this
coming doom,
To place this fiend Monopoly for ever in the tomb.
Shall we remain inactive while such monster stalks
our land ?
To see our children’s birthright seized, shall we
in silence stand ?
“ No !” shouts our infant land in voice that echoes
thro’ the world,
“Too long o’er Toil’s despised sons has Freedom’s
flag been furled!
Too long earth’s millions have been born, have
starved and died to give
Unto a toil-less few the power in princely pomp to
live !
But now the long, dark day of Wrong is drawing
to a close,
And Tyranny begins to writhe in his last, dying
throes;
His offspring, Land-Monopoly, stands trembling
by his side,
Both knowing well their power is vain to,turn that
mighty tide
That bears upon its heaving breast, from Error’s
darkness free,
The coming ruler of the world—peace-crowned
Democracy.”
BILLY CAN.
Victoria, 10th October, 1888.
The Future of Ham.
A Queensland journal, wrestling with the pro-
blem of over-crowding falls foul of the great negro
question and successfully negotiates a severe fall
with considerable eclat. It acknowledges that
according to present progress it will be but a short
time before the earth is over-replenished; that
America and Australia—already legislating against
pauper emigration—will overflow as Europe is
overflowing, as it has in the past overflowed, as
Asia in its great Aryan flood-tide of successive
emigratory waves has overflowed into Europe,
Posterity’s press-advocate in Queensland is deeply
concerned thereat. Where are our children to
wander m search of a loaf, or a roof, or a bed ’ With
wonderful opportuneness, just in the nick of time,
just as Europe was prepared to throw its surplus
population over the brim, two continents and
many islands in the Pacific gaped to receive them,
Australia and America swallowed up the over-
shoot of Europe. But what of our children in
their turn? Where are they to emigrate? Africa!
Iliat is already inhabited—thickly swarming with
black millions, “with life that will not wither at
the white man’s coming j”—
Scientists suppose the lifchopiati the first created or
developed specimen of humanity. , . . His persist-
ence under all skies and every condition brings up the
analogy of tenaoity of primitive stocks so forcibly as to
confirm the hypothesis which may be shortly expressed in
the words of Dr. Guntßiß : “ Adam was black.”
Evidently Africa is hopeless as a future surplus
pasturage for the Caucasian race. The Aryan
may, as the Queensland paper admits, take
possession of the whole of Africa as he already
has taken possession of America and Australia,
but Africa is thickly teeming with legions of
swart Paynims and ferocious blackamoors who
would multiply only the faster for the white man’s
advent* because it would abolish war and put
down slavery—the two causes at present operat-
ing to limit in an infinitesimal degree the wonder-
ful fecundity of the children of Ham. The
paper finds something of consolation in the fact
that “comparative sterility will descend upon the
race until it has worked its own cure in the reduc-
tion of population.” By the race is meant,
of course, the “white” race. But a race
dies when the cradle ceases to rock. Eng-
land is ruined by trade. Once was she war-
like now she produces merchants instead of men,
factory-operatives instead of soldiers. Only 20
years ago Germany was a giant. To-day Ger-
many is a Samson shorn of his strength. There
is much boasting regarding the fact that Germany
has begun to compete against England and
America successfully in trade. Herein is the bane
and the antidote. Trade, like a subtle mercury,
has eaten into the vitals of modern civilisation.
It has killed the virility of England. America
was born with the death-germ already in her sys-
tem.. To-day she totters on the brink of a com-
mercial Tophet. The States produce Jay Goulds
and tramps; the latter by the million ; they are
as national a product as the hogs of Chicago.
Yesterday Germany stood, sword in hand, like
one of the champions of Christendom, a
hero of the Niebelungenlied, strong in the
art and practice of war. To-day she is
a huckster selling in the Cheap Jack’s
booth, chaffering with Shylock concerning per-
centages. Trade will kill Germany, as it has
killed England, as it is killing America. Ger-
many enfeebled will fall the prey of Russia. The
Sclav’s time is coming. The youngest emigrant,
the semi-Turanian, will conquer and rule Europe,
till he in turn is wiped off the slate of history by
his Tartar brother. China is growing; ideas are
slowly budding amongst the Mongol hordes;
hunger is there becoming potent as an emigration-
agent and when the great Tungusian exodus takes
place there will be jostling in Europe and many a
nation will tumble overboard into the deep sea.
But all this while Africa has been forging ahead ;
million has been added to million. After Europe,
after America, after. Asia, after Australia, the
children of Ham will gather at the feast and
black emperors will conquer Asia from Europe as
from a citadel. The turban of Mohammedan will
replace the tiara of Pope, and Hannibal will
achieve in his descendants the mastery of the
Roman world. This is not an exaggerated pictu rel
In the words of our Queensland contemporary
who makes no such deduction as we have here
essayed :
Already Frenoh deaths exceed Frenoh births, while the
tNorth American olimate produces sterility in the third
generation. Upon the inpouring of fresh blood depends
the increase of population. In Spain, Italy, some parts
of India, and South America, and several other parts of
the world, deaths are rapidly over-taking births, or more
properly births descending in the soale to the level of
deaths.
Some scalawag, unappailed by the vicinity of
the lock-up, had the temerity to enter the justice-
room at the Melbourne Police Court, the other
day, and to levant therefrom in the great coat of
Mr. Panton, the worthy P.M., who each a m.
presides over the gathering of drunks and peoty
larcenists collected during the night by the foorce.
Poor Mr. Panton, being thus badly left, toddled
home in the rain without his outer garment
and ruminated on a happier past, when the
larcenist got the worst of a predatory attempt
upon his property. Not always did villainy
triumph. _ln those halcyon days, when Mr,
Panton still adorned the judicial bench at Gee-
long, he was aroused on a certain occasion from
the sleep of the just by a noise on his verandah.
Accoutred as he was—that is to say, in his night-
shirt only—he started for the scene of action, and
found a burglar gently insinuating his carcase
between the French windows of the drawing-
room. The burglar fled, and Mr. Panton, bare-
footed, with his drapery flying in the wind,
started after him. The burglar was fleetfooted,
but the magistrate was a champion in those days,
sound of wind, long of limb, and hard of muscle.
After a chase round three or four blocks, he
caught the culprit, knocked him down, sat
upon him, and kept him down, and roared for the
police until they appeared, when he handed the
half-squashed prisoner to their keeping, and re-
turned to his couch, it being then half-past one in
the morning. A few hours later the P.M. sat
serene amid a throng of justices, to hear X 901 nar-
rate the story. “The prisoner at the bar, yer
hanner, was cot this marning thrying t’ inter the
risidince of his Hanner Misther Panton, the
Pleece Madghisthrate.” “Are you sure of the
prisoner’s identity ? ’ asked a much-horrified J.P.
“ Indade, yer hanner may see the Police Madghis-
thrate’s mark on him,” responded the officer, and
truly the hand of justice had marked him, for Mr.
Panton’s mighty blow had given him two lovely
black eyes. So he pleaded guilty, and Mr. Pan-
ton, as chairman, pronounced the sentence of the
Court, which was a light one, being only three
months’ imprisonment. And now Mr. Panton
is sighing for a return of that luck. He is haunted
by a dread suspicion that the burglar of 1878 and
the sneak-thief of 1888 are the same person, and
that his old assailant has managed to get even
with him at last.


L4i3!MLQISIIIQ)d 10INIIII91 DIOIA 13IUIVI
FACTS! FACTS! FACTS!!!
It is an established fact that a disorcted state of
the Kidneys and Liver produces most of tl'ie com-
mon complaints and pains which afflict the human
race. To purify a stream we must go to its
source, and to cure disease wc must remove the
cause. How intimately the Kidneys are asso-
ciated with the entire system may he understood
from the fact that more than 1000 ounces of blood
pass through the Kidneys every hour, being more
than 200 gallons or nearly one ton in 24 hours. If
the Kidneys are diseased and fail to perform their
functions the impurities which are in the blood are
not removed, hut carry disease and death to every
part of the living tissues. How important, there-
fore, that these great organs, the sewers of the
human system, be kept in health, and all poison-
ous matter in the blood be eliminated. Arc your
kidneys and liver in good order ? You know by
your feelings whether they arc or not. If they
are not in complete health, do not longer delay,
ANOTHER DOCTOR’S RECOMMEND.
Nelson, N.Z., August 6th, 1888,—A case came
Under my observation affecting a serious disor-
ganisation of the kidneys. The disease was kept
in abeyance by the application of “ Warner’s
Safe Cure,” .and when deprived of the use of this
medicine, the patient suffered a relapse proving
nearly fatal, but on resumption of this specific the
patient recovered his health.—A. E. LEGGATT,
M.R.C.S.E.
WARNER’S “SAFE" ASTHMA CURE.
Anderson Street, Geelong, 26th April, 1888.—
For four years I have suffered from asthma, a
little extra exertion bringing on an attack. At
night shortness of breath deprived me of rest and
sleep until my head was affected, and I was afraid
I would go mad. I could not inhale enough air to
fill the lungs, and I would sit up in bed labouring
for breath. A little over a year ago I tried the
“Warner’s Safe Cure” with the “Warner’s
Safe Asthma Cure,” and had immediate relief. 1
I have not had an attack since.—GEORGE
FAULKNER.
THE MANAGER’S REPCRT.
Milton, Otago, N.Z., May 18th, 1888.—Last
year I suffered from Dyspepsia; severe pains in
my chest, back, and shoulder-blades; extreme
languor and aversion to physical and mental
labour. I used “ Warner’s Safe Cure ” and
“Warner's Safe Pills” with immediate relief,
and have been in excellent health ever since.—
F. M. BALDWIN, Manager National Bank of
New Zealand.
HOW TO CURE ASTHMA.
Bluff Harbour, Southland, N.Z., Oct. sth,
1888. —For the past 20 years I have been a great
sufferer from As hma. Attacks seized me be-
tween three and four in the morning, lasting
usually half-an-hour in duration, during which
time I suffered great torture. Medical aid was
of no avail. In May last I heard of “Warner's
Safe Asthma Cure ” anl used the same with
very good results, It procured me prompt relief
by greatly easing my breathing. The attacks
consequently became me cli milder, only lasting a
few minutes, when the timely use of “Warner’s
Safe Asthma Cure” promptly cut short the
attacks.—CATHERINE HORROBIN.
“ A VERY VALUABLE REMEDY."
Wellington, N.Z., August 24th, 1888.—I have
very much pleasure in stating that I have taken
‘‘Warner’s Safe Cure” with very beneficial
effects, and that also in the gold diggings on the
west Coast, I have known many wonderful cures-
effected, that have proved to me that it is a. very
valuable medicine. I may state that I used it for
liver and kidney complaints some twelve months-
ago, and have ever since been in good health.—
JOSEPH GRTM'MOND, M.H.R.
EXPELS GALL STONES.
Onehunga, N.Z., Sept. 20th, 1888.—Ec a num-
ber of years I have suffered from gall stones.
Last year the passage of a gall stone caused' me
extreme torture, agonising pains being, persistent
in my back, loin, and right side. I was advised'
to try “ Warner’s Safe Cure” with “ Warner’s
Safe Pills,” and I did so to my great relief. I
have used 10 bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure ” and
two vials of Warner’s Safe Pills ” and am now in
the best of health. Ido not suffer the slightest
pain, and to my mind the presence of stone was
partly dissolved by the medicine, and then ex.-
THE ONLY BLOOD PURIFYING ORGANS AR
but at once resort to that groat specific “ Warner’s
Safe Cure,” which has cured tens of thousands,
and which will cure you if you will give it a
chance. Read the indisputable evidence of your
friends and neighbours and be convinced.
DOCTORS PRESCRIBE IT.
Dunedin, New Zealand, 7th June, 1888. —I
have in various instances prescribed “Warner’s
Safe Cure” and “Warner’s Safe Pills” for kidney
disease, Bright’s disease, and severe form of in-
digestion, and have seen it attended with most
gratifying results.-ROBERT W. STIRLING,
M.R.C.5.1., &c.
CURES BLOOD POISONING.
Council Street, Clifton Hill, Victoria, 19th
April, 1888.—Five years ago symptoms cf blood
poisoning appeared in my system, and I was
treated by a number of physicians for mylites. I
derived no benefit and lost the entire use of my
lower limbs for three years. Last year I tried
“Warner’s Safe Cure,” and after taking a few
bottles I regained the use of my limbs, and my
general health was very much improved. —JOHN
W. GRIFFITHS.
C. E. TENNENT, M.D.
Auckland, N.Z., September 22nd, 1888.—I
have prescribed “ Warner’s Safe Cure” in con-
junction with “Warner's Safe Pills,” in kidney
diseases and in incipient Bright’s disease with very
happy results, and can safely recommend it as an
excellent remedy in all diseases of the bladder,
kidney and and liver, and more especially in senile
cases.-C. E. TENNENT. M.I).
LUMBAGO HAS TO QUIT.
Newcastle, N.S.W., 3f> Watt-street, 2!)th July,
1888.—On behalf of suffering humanity, I feel it a
duty incumbent upon me to add my testimony to
the already numerous list, many of which, in this
district, I have had the pleasure to corroborate
their truthfulness. I have long suffered from a
chronic disorder or disease, supposed to be lum-
bago, for which I have applied many remedies,
but only obtained relief for a short period. I then
resolved to give “Warner's Safe Cure” a fair,
unbiased trial, which I have done, having taken
in all five bottles, and am now in the sixth ; and,
I am pleased to state, after many weeks’ prostra-
tion, I fully anticipate resuming my avocation in
a few days. Should you feel inclined, you are
quite at liberty to add this to your many testi -
monials, —GEO. LUCK.
NERVOUS HEADACHE CURED.
Eagle Hotel, Bluff Harbour, Southland,
N.Z., Oct. sth, 1888.—During the past two years
I was very often subject to nervous headaches,
with darting pains coxing and going suddenly,
and a persistent, heavy pain in the crown, as if a
great weight rested on it, and causing temporary
suspension of thought. I felt also very languid,
and consequently became reduced in health In
May last I heard of “Warner’s Safe Nervine,”
of which I used three bottles with great benefit.
My strength Is much restored, and I have since
been free from any attacks of nervous headaches.
—Mrs. A. M. C. HAMILTON, wife of the Pro-
prietor.
“ SAFE CURE CURES DYSPEPSIA."
Muscelbrook, N.S.W., Oct. 23, 1888.—This is
to certify that I have been suffering from Dys-
pepsia for over two years, till at last I determined
to give “ Warner’s Safe Cure ’’and “ Safe Pills” a
fair trial, and am happy to state I am now free
from all pain and sickness arising from that dire-
ful disorder. My wife also can testify to its
efficacy for general debility, from which she has
been a great sufferer for a long time, but is now
absolutely cured, —H, WINSOR.
Pelled. I may add that I also used “Warner’s
Safe Nervine ” which has permanently cured me
of nervousness, and toned up my system.—J. G..
GIBSON, Accountant.
RHEUMATICS, READ THIS.
I KNUKA, N.Z., July 25th, 1888. —In February
last I was attacked with a severe attack of Rheu-
matic Fever. The pains I suffered were excru-
ciating, none but those similarly affected can
know the agony endured. To touch a joint was
worse than running a knife into the body (from
the pain in the heart I could only breathe in short
hard gasps for several days at a time). Several
times when at my worst I was induced to try
“ Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure.” I did take a
dose now and then and felt great relief from it,
but did not continue with it until I left Ashburton
for Tenuka, when I took it regularly, and in a
week all pain in the heart had left me, and the
swelling in the chest and side was greatly re-
duced. In three weeks all the swellings in the
joints had disappeared, and in a month I walked
ten miles ; whereas, only a month before, 1 could
only totter a short distance alone, and my sight
was going fast. My sight is now much better,
and no more swellings, no pains in the heart, and
only slight piins in some of the joints when the
weather changes.—A. PARKINSON.
THE KIDNEYS. ARE YOUR’S HEALTHY?
IN THE BEST OF HEALTH.
West Maitland, N.S.W., 10th February,
1888.—For three years or more I have greatly
suffered from chronic disease of the kidneys and
liver, with all the indications characteristic of
the complaint, such as great langour, indigestion,
and nervous debility, for which I took a number
of medicines with no prospects of relief. Upon a
recent occasion 1 took in all three bottles of
“ Warner’s Safe Cure,” with Warner's Safe
Pills,” since which my symptoms of disease have
left me. lam now again in the best of health. —
ANDREW S. BROWN, Alderman.
GOOD FOR THE POLICE.
Singleton, N.S.W,, October 17th, 1888. —For
a period of over two years, between 1883 and
188(i, I suffered severely from indigestion and
kidney and liver complaints brought on from ex-
posure. Being at the time in the mounted police
of N.S.W. I had long hours in the saddle, conse-
quently irregular hours of sleep or meals, and for
months I passed a miserable life, unable to cat or
sleep, and eventually had to resign. After taking
all other remedies (but without relief), I was per-
suaded by a friend to try “ Warner’s Safe Cure,”
which I am happy to say has effected a positive
cure.—JAMES HALL.
CAN HEARTILY RECOMMEND.
Manly, N.S.W., 3rd April, 1888.—I have used
a number of bottles o? “Warner’s Safe Cure”
for complicated liver and kidney complaint, and
have derived considerable benefit. I hardly think
that I have further need for more medicine, and
I can heartily recommend “ Warnei'’s Safe Cure”
to others.—ROßEßT S. WILLIS, Pastor of the
Church of England, Manly.
CURED THE BANK MANAGER,
Newcastle, N.S.W., 6th February, 1888. —I
willingly certify to the sterling merits of
“ Warner’s Safe Cure,” for when afflicted with a
severe and painful cold in the kidneys two bottles
of “ Warner’s Safe Cure” restored me to health,
the medicine working like magic, its effect being
instantaneous. —A. W. M‘LIM, Manager Mercan-
tile Bank of Sydney, Newcastle.
CURES LIVER COMPLAINT.
Williamstown, Victoria, 19th April, 1888. —
Two years ago my son was taken ill with a severe
liver complaint, and cramps in the abdomen ; this
state of ill-health lasted until he began the use of
“Warner’s Safe Cure” and “Warner’s Safe
Pills,” which have helped him wonderfully,—
ALEX. M’KENZIE, Sergeant-Major, Vic-
torian Forces.
CONFIDENTLY RECOMMENDS IT.
Wellington, N.Z., August Ist, 1888.—I can
certify to having received very great benefit from
the use of “Warner’s Safe Cure ” while suffering
from serious kidney disorganisation and liver
complaints. 1 have also recommended it to
several friends, who were all materially benefited
by its use. I can confidently recommend it. —
R. H. J. REEVES, M H.R.
BRIGHT’S DISEASE NOT INCURABLE
Hanson-street, Newtown, Wellington,
N.Z., July 26th, 1888.—Some twelve years since 1
became attacked with kidney disorganisation,
heavy aching pains in the kidneys were almost
incessant, attended with great prostration of
strength. I consulted a physician, who informed
me that I was afflicted with Bright’s disease
of the kidoeys, for which there was no pro-
spect of recovery. Some time after this I
received a copy of an American newspaper,
containing an advertisement of “ Warner’s Safe
Cure,” with a stated cure of Bright’s Disease.
The med'cioe not being introduced into this
colony at that time, I procured a case of it from
London, which I took with immediate relief. My
painful symptoms lessened ; I felt that a great
improvement had taken place. In time I pro-
DREAD BRIGHTS DISEASE YIELDS.
Onehunga, N.Z., Sept. 20th, 1888.—Eight or
nine years ago kidney disease insidiously invaded
my system. I then first suffered from Sciatica,
intense aching and darting pains extending from
the nates to the right knee. Deterioration of the
blood produced a morbid condition of the kidneys,
and 18 months ago I found myself in a most
critical state of health. My doctors acquainted me
with the fact that I was stricken with the dread
Bright’s Disease. I then commenced the use of
“Warner’s Safe Cure” and “Warner's Sake
Pills.” At that time I was nearly blind. The
medicine has proved a veritable boon and has
saved my life. After the use of a few bottles all
pains were gone ; in fact, I obtained immediate
relief. I have now used 10 bottles of “ Warner’s
Safe Cure” and a few vials of “ Warner's Sake
Pills”; and my health and eyesight is completly
restored. —WILLIAM COUTTS, Engineer.
“WITH DECIDED BENEFIT.”
Wellington, N.Z., August 25th, 1888.—Upon a
recent occasion, when suffering from ill health
caused by torpidity of the liver, I used “ Warner’s
Sake Cure” and “ Warner’s Sake Pills” and, I
may say, with great and decided benefit.—
EBENS HAMLIN, M.H.R.
IF NOT, TAKE WARNER’S “SAFE” CURE.
IT DUES AS REPRESENTED.
South Dunedin, N.Z., 6th June, 1888. —“ War-
ner’s Safe Cure” has very often been brought
under my notice as a specific for kidney and liver
disease and general debility. I know of several
instances of protracted suffering, cured by this
medicine. -(Rev.) WILLIAM CAMPBELL.
DERIVED GREAT BENEFIT.
Penrith, N.S.W., 28th March, 1888. — For a
few months I have suffered from stiffness of the
knee-joint. I used “ Warner’s Safe Cure.” and
derived very great benefit from it. —P. J.
MAHONY, (The Rev. Dean Mahony).
IT CURED THE TUMOR,
Bbown's Creek, near Blayney, N.S.W., 16th
June, 1888. —Two years ago, after being attended
by different doctors, I went into the Bathurst
Hospital to go under an operation. The doctors
tapped what they called a tumor on my liver.
After getting a little stronger I left the hospital;
Ibe tumor began to fill up again larger than be-
fore. I wrote the doctors it was filling, and they
told me the only thing they could do was to have
the tumor cut out. Hearing of “ Warner’s Safe
Cure,” I began its use, and have taken seven
bottles, with the happy result that I am entirely
cured. It is now six months since I stopped
taking the medicine, and th°re is no sign of the
tumor returning.—Mrs. THOMAS MOLONY.
THE GREAT CASE OF DIABETES CURED.
Thames, N.Z., Sept. 24th, 1888. —I owe my
present existence to the timely use of “ Warner’s
Safe Diabetes Cure.” Three years ago I fell a
victim to this dread disease. It was ushered in
by such disturbances of the system that I. at once
recognised the dangerous and malignant character
of the malady. My digestion became defec-
tive, and there was a persistent dull, heavy pain
across the back. I felt fearfully thirsty, my
mouth seemed parched, my teeth were loosened,
and gums bled on the slightest provocation
For six months I felt so weak lhat I was
incapable of any exertion. My eyesight be-
came very poor. Suffering as described for
a few months, I heard of Warner’s Safe
Diabetes Cure ” and ordered the same, taking it
as directed with “ Warner’s Safe Pills.” I also
kept as close as I could to the diet as laid down.
When I had taken two bottles of the medicine I
felt so greatly relieved that hopes of a recovery
became apparent. While continuing with the
medicine I felt assured that I would recover my
health. My pains disappeared when I had taken
20 bottles of “Warner’s Safe Diabetes Cure’’
with a few vials of “ Warner’s Safe Pills,” I
had completely recovered my health, .when every
hope of life had gone. My age is 02 years.—JOHN
GIBBONS, Retired Gentleman.
cured more, and in all used 50 bot les. I hive
merely to add that I have long since fully re-
covered my health, and feel quite well, corporeal
and mental.- —JOHN LINDSAY, Carpenter.
TREMBLING LIMBS MADE STRONG.
Wellington, N.Z., Tasman-street, August
21st, 1888. —For upwards of 20 years I have
suffered from chronic Rheumatism. Shooting
pains attached all parts of my body, but seemed
to lodge principally in the ankles and feet, pro-
ducing inflamation and swelling, and constant
trembling of the limbs caused by weakness ; while
at times I felt such desperate pains as to deprive
me of all rest, as well as the use of my limbs,
being only able to walk aided by a stick. My
complaints baffled the efforts of many physicians,
including five leading doctors locally, who tried
everything likely to be useful in lessening my
sufferings, but without any good effect. Twelve
months ago I commenced the use of “Warner's
Safe Rheumatic Cure,” also “Warner's Safe
Pills.” It was not until I had commenced the
fifth bottle of the medicine that the advantage
derived from the medicine became very evident.
My pains materially subsided, and the trembling
of my limbs ceased. I have now consumed 24
bottles of “ Warner’s Safe Rheumatic Cure ” and
4or 5 vials of “ Warner’s Safe Pills.” My rheu-
matism is now greatly abated, aid my strength
nearly restored —Mrs. SAMUEL DANKS, wife
of S. Dan Is s, Member of City Council.
NOTHING EQUAL TO SAFE CURE.
Onehunga, N.Z., Sep. 20th, 1888.—I add with
pleasure my testimony in favour of “Warner’s
Safe Cure,” which gave me back my health when
I was in a precarious condition. It is two years
since I was seized Avi h very severe pains in the
hack and loins, followed by a general breakdoAvn
of the system. My physicians ordered me to re-
pair to the Te Aroha hot springs, but my sojourn
at that supposed shrine of health did not in any
tend to improve my condition. I consequently
returned home in a very poor state of health, and
with a dreadful depression of spirits, as I felt that
I would no more recover my health, medical aid
having proved fruitless, in relieving me of a
serious affection of the kidneys and liver. I felt
that l was compelled to relinquish my hu iness,
and contemplated selling my newspaper and plant;
Avhen upon strange recommendation I determined
on a course of “ Warner’s Safe Cure.” The first
few bottles brought but slight relief, perseA r ering
with the medicine for a time longer, 1 was by de-
grees fully restored to health. Ever since I have
been entirely free from any complaint. I feel sure
there is nothing to equal “ Warner's Safe Cure,”
in cases of general debility, and affections of the
kidney and liA’er. FRANK W. GREEN, Editor
and Proprietor I‘Manaukau Gazette.”
DON’T COMMIT SUICIDE ANY LONGER.


What May Happen to a Man in
New South Wales.
In the Far North of the beneficent colony
of N.S. Wales, in the year of grace, 1876, there
sb ood by the sounding shore of a rippling river,
away beyond the hum of men, the influence of
sectarian strife, and the plague of politics, a
stunted township consisting chiefly of a public-
house engineered by a turgid individual of im-
paired intellect, named Dodd. The township did
not stand alone; it was shored up with props, the
Court House leant against a tree, Magee’s em-
porium recliaed on a rail, and the lock-up was
built beside a rock upon which it rested in a
thoughtful attitude. There were, besides these
establishments, two huts and a barn, but Dodd’s
Travellers’ Arms was the business centre, the
great mainstay and one attraction of the town-
ship ; round its bar circulated all the life of the
municipality, and the Hamlet’s sole commercial
transactions with the outer world were conducted
over its counter. Strange, wild men came out
from the wilderness or down the flowing Ballandul,
with big cheques to barter for rum, and often, at
noonday, when the ardent northern sun glanced
fiercely upon the deserted highway, gleamed hotly
on the face of the waters, and spread fictitious
streams in the distant hollows, the weird lone cry
of a strong drinker in his agony cleft the crisp
air, and echoed amongst the sparse timber on the
hills, from out Dodd’s bar, where the dissipated
drover or the misguided stockman was squander-
ing his substance in rum and riotous living, and
menacing the curious, uncouth creatures that beset
him with fitful howls.
m • •
In the October of the year stated Doids-
ville (the township had another name, but it is
more difficult to put on paper than a back-action
sneeze) was at the zenith of its prosperity. Three
station hands and a sable cook had just knocked
the figures out of four fat cheques at the Travel-
ler’s Arms, and at the time our story opens a dam-
sinker, who had recently completed a big job for
a squatter over the border, was deliberately but
surely lavishing his hard earnings on liquors that
lure. This latter gentleman was large and fierce,
he had muscular limbs and an extensive chest, and
a blow from his ready left weighed more than the
kick of an emu. Ia appearance he was not fas.
cinating. His hereditary plainness of face was in-
tensified into ugliness by a series of unfortunate
accidents that had dislodged some features and
deflected others, but his wi f c, whom he had in
tow, was comely enough for two, and she was young
and had a bold black eye and a witching smile,
and her soft sly wink contained more expression
than three languages. She did not join in her
lord’s carousals, but viewed the revels from afar,
and quenched her modest thirst with an innocent
mixture of gin and cloves. The dam-maker’s name
was Jackson, and, though his personal appearance
was not attractive, there was that about him
which drew the residents of Doddsville towards
him and le i them to proclaim him a genial gentle-
man and a proper sort, “ by thunder.” There was
nothing remarkable about this, as the men of
Doddsville had an inviolable conviction that
strangers who shouted were men of lofty senti-
ment and the very fiaest morality, independent
of minor considerations, and it was observable
that whenever a lavish visitor went on a burst at
the Travellers’ Arms the whole male population
of the township, barring D odds, went on a burst
also. The stranger paid for the lot. Which
accounts for the marvellous alacrity with which
large cheques went down at Doddsville.
»
Oa the afternoon of the third day of Mr.
Jackson’s sojourn at the Travellers’ Arms two
young drovers, who had been south with a mob
and were returning to the Condamine, put up at
the pub. for the night. One of these was a bush
Adonis, with flaxen curls and a manner gay and
debonnair. He had not inhabited the hostelry half
an hour before his bright blue eye was fixed upon
Jackson’s winsome spouse with a glance of in-
effable yearning, and her bold black eye tele-
graphed reciprocal sentiments—“ eyes looked love
to eyes that spake again,” and in this optical confab
the excessive volubility of Mrs. J ackson’s wicked
wink proved advantageous and gave the young man
full assurance that ?he yearned for closer acquain-
tance. Mr, Jackson, though still intent on the red,
red rum, had not forgotten the spouse of his bosom,
and knowing, from experience possibly, that it was
advisable to keep her within the range of vision,
he rounded her up occasionally and yarded her in
the parlour. As a matter of fact, the engineer of
waterworks could keep his iateflect above the
flood after a very severe course of old Jamaica, and
still retained enough reason to loom dangerously in
the eye 3 of the amorous young man from the Con-
damine. The dam-maker was ably seconded in
his earnest endeavour to put down all the accursed
liquor in Doddsville by Mr. Swithin Mage3, the
proprietor of Magee’s Emporium, who, by virtue
of his exalted station as oldest resident and justice
of the peace, enjoyed the valued privilege of
drinking at the expense of all the strange, wild
men who came out of the wilderness to damp
their ardour at the Travellers’ Atms. Mr. Swithin
Magee, J.P., was a short, red man, with an air of
unexampled ferocity and a large, bulbous nose
like a bilious tomato—a nose that was always
breaking out afresh and extending its ramifica-
tions. Mr. Magee was ever fierce and bristling,
and it was understood that his judicial decisions
would have been marked by extreme severity had
he only remained sober long enough to utter them.
Swithin Magee was drunk—mentally and physi-
cally drunk—but did not relax in his pursuit of
the worthy object in view, and continued to de-
stroy assorted spirituous liquors till he was hung
over a stick and carried home to bed by Dodd and
another, in a state of collapse, at a late hour.
Auother gentleman, who was equally zealous in
the great cause of Temperance, was also present,
but he was not drunk —at least, not drunk in com-
parison with his zeal, not as drunk as he wished
to be. This was Constable M. B. Finney, the
defender of the peace and quiet, the hearths and
homes of Doddsville, and the thirstiest man in
five continents. He was brought up on the bottle,
and stood a living monument of the truth of the
old aphorism, “Bring up a child on the bottle,
and he will never depart therefrom.” Finney
would have been an ornament to the force but for
an exhibition of vacillation in the knees and a
tendency to go cronk in the back ; when his
vigilant eye was not fixed upon a drunk en evi-
dence, it was fastened on 20 in perspective, and
when he had a clue to a drink he followed it up
persistently, and sooner or later surely ran it in.
His most arduous duty consisted in carrying Mr.
Magee, J.P., home whenever that important dig-
nitary was overcome by rum or other climatic in-
fluence.
o o o
The rapturous young man with the flaxen
locks continued to make occult pantomimic love
to the buxom Jackson, and breathed his feelings
in long, low sighs, whilst, ever and anon, she
paralysed him into ecsbatic inaction with her
magnetic wink or redoubled his rapture with a
witching smile. He ventured to draw near to her
in the gloaming and squeeze her little hand, and
for one transporting momenb she leaned up against
him and gazed into his eyes. Then she said :
“Cut, lovey. If that abject, liquor-logged,
broken nosed husband of mine sees us he’ll whale
somebody—he’s so unreasonable, you wouldn’t be-
lieve.” A motion on the part of Mr. Jackson
caused the enamoured drover to retire into the
shadows, but he determined to remove that genble-
man from the scene to a spot where he would
cease from troubling and be at resb, for a while
at least, and he took his chum into his confidence.
They withdrew into a secluded place, and
plotted in unison to contrive the casting away of
Mr. Jackson in a waste place, or his total sub-
sidence for a brief season, and they pondered with
strained attention, till an inspiration came to the
disaffected drover, and then they arose and went out
unto Constable Finney, and, in furtherance of their
unholy purpose, they beguiled thatexcellent “officer
av the law” into a side room and proceeded to prime
him with whisky made on the premises, and bush
brandy, and other medical compounds Already
he had shipped enough slops to obliterate all pro-
fessional instincts, but the bad young men con-
tinued to heave the beverages into him, till he
pitched stupidly on his head and peered with a
flaccid, cob-webbed eye into the great never-never.
Then they took him between them and stole from
the inn. Down to his humble cot by the Dodds-
ville lock up they bore the comatose constable.
Once within, they stripped him of his official robes
and put him in his little bed. The depraved
drover with the flaxen curls then assumed the uni-
form and in the guise of an officer of police re-
turned to the vicinity of the Travellers’ Arms. It
was now nearly 10 o’clock, and the masculine
Jackson was bordering on incapacity, and absurdly
insensible of the fact that he was de trop and a
galling restraint on a fine young couple who
loved each other at first sight. The two drovers
lurked in the gathered darkness about the pub.
awaiting an opportunity to put their deep-laid
plans into execution. It came in due time —the
old dam-maker staggered out of the bar to his un-
doing, and was instantly pounced upon and
arrested in the Queen’s name. He showed void
and feeble fight at first, but ultimately accepted
the impromptu policeman’s advice and went
“aisy,” with many vague ideas of horrid crimes
perpatrated in moments of vinous abstraction,
floating about on the surface of the rum, with
other intellectual wreckage. He was half-dragged,
half carried to the Doddsville lock-up, and there
incarcerated. The key of the noisome dungeon was
returned to Constable Finney’s uniform and the
uniform restored to that intelligent and efficient
officer, who slept in his boots, with his mouth
ajar, and snored till the windo v rattled ; and the
unregenerate youths, high'y elated by the success
of their base designs, sought again the Traveller’s
Arms, where they met were by the light and airy
Mrs Jackson. This scene concludes here with
the lady’s most fetching and facetious wink.
It was getting on towards noon next
morning before Constable Finney wa3 awakened
by a ferocious blaze of profanity and a great
kicking at the lock up door. He was surprised,
but not very much so ; he did not remember hav-
ing arrested anybody, and was not aware that any
breach of the peace had been perpetrated at
Doddsville, but that was not remarkable—he was
liable to arrest people for nothing in particular in
his cups, and after a drunk his memory was always
defective. He arose, leisurely soaked his enlarged
cranium in the water-butt, then interviewed his
prisoner. “ Soilencs in th’ coort,” he howled
through the key-hole. “If yez don’t shtop ve’r
nise O’ll give yez tin days for contimpb.” “ What
am I here for, you bandy-legged thief! ” screamed
the prisoner. “ What fur,” replied Mr. Finney,
momentarily nonplussed ; “ whoi fur insultin’ be-
havyer, obstructin’ th’ thoryfare, impedin’ me in
th’ execootion av me dooty, an’ tearin’ me uniform.
Whoop! Is it yersilf ?” exclaimed the peeler,
amazed on opening the door and discover-
ing the identity of the prisoner. “ Hist
ye aisy an’ Oi’ll have yez out in foive
minutes.” And Constable Finney re-locked the
cell door and tore up the road to the emporium of
Swithin Magee, J.P., shocked at his senseless
temerity in having locked up a gentleman who
stood drinks with cheerful alacrity, and expecting
to incur the full force of Mr. Magee’s wrath when
that legal luminary was made aware that the con-
vivial Jackson had been imprisoned like a common
dead-beat or an impecunious sundowner within his
jurisdiction. But Mr. Magee was still sleeping
off the influence of his nocturnal potations, and
obstinately refused to awake sufficiently to grasp
the situation. Constable Finney was equal to the
occasion; he lifted Swithin up bodily, dressed
him by main force, popped him in a wheelbarrow,
and solemnly trundled him off to court. After
enthroning the obtuse magistrate behind his
desk, the officer of the law trotted the prisoner
into the box. “ Plaze, yer Washup,” said the con-
stable, stating the case for the Crown, “I arristed
th’ man forninst y’ fer obstructin’ th’ thoryfare,
beyant.” “It’s a lie!” yelled the prisoner.
“ Silence in th’ coort! ” cried the constable. Then,
nudging the sleeping Swithin viciously in the ribs
with a legal ledger, he queried eagerly: “Fwhat
will Oi do wid him, yer anner ? ” Mr. Magee
lifted his blood-shot eye and blinked stupidly.
“To H—l with him ! ” he said, and dropped his
head on his arms again. “ Prisoner at th’ bar,”
observed the constable in measured tones, “Yez
are dismissed widout a shtain on yer ker-racther.”
• * »
When Mr. Jackson returned to the wife of
his bosom the two drovers had pushed some miles
North, and his spouse came out towards him with
a great gush of conjugal s flection, and said
she had been so lonely without him, and
rested confidingly on his manly chest, but secretly
winked her bold, black eye at the dim distance,
and exulted. Here endeth the story of a deluded
dam-maker and an exposition of how the mighty
engine of the law and the sacred attributes of
Justice were misused at Doddsville.
In the Middle of the Floor.
When the two sons of the Prince of Wales visited
this continent some years ago the hearts of the
Australian maidens burned within them, and
divers dances were projected in honour of those
youths in order that the native r 0338 might not
bloom unseen of royalty. Fond visions of possible
flirtations agitated gentle bosoms, and many a
fair one pictured herself pacing triumphant,
partner of a priac9, to the upper end of the most
select of all the supper tables. Alas for the rough
awakening ! The youngsters perseveringly at-
tended the balls to which they were invited—
albeit, that the elder —lpDg, lank, and soft-
danced like a wet rag trying to stand on its end,
while the younger—3hort, stout, and scrubby,
and quite incapable of dancing at all —hopped
aimlessly about or violently gyrated like a
young bear whose hinder end hath been tickled
by the inhabitants of an ant-hill. The ambitious
fair ones would have endured these inconveniences
with pleasure. It was the princely etiquette—or
side —as one damsel called it—which stiffened
their loyalty. When a prince wants to dance
with a lady he does not ask her himself as any
other man would have to, but he sends his attend-
ant to do so. When the go-between has procured
the fair one he introduces her to the prince and
not the prince to her, and when the dance is over
the prince leaves his partner standing in the
middle of the floor or wherever she may happen
to be when the music stops, to find a seat in the
bast way she can. The popularity of the young
princes as partners fell to zero when these
peculiarities were fully understood. What, indeed,
was the use of dancmg with a prince who did not
talk, and must not be addressed except in answer
to any observation he might condescend to offer?
What pleasure was there in being hustled and
dragged about by a boorish boy whose head barely
reached above his partner’s waist, who simply
made a bob of a bow to her when she was brought
to him by his keeper and another when the dance
was over, and then bounced off to repeat the
process elsewhere? What consolation was there
in all this for a towzled skirt, torn laces, profuse
perspiration, and a headache ? None, and pre-
sently the girls wisely accepted other partners and
lefd the young princes free to their perambulations.
Indeed, it is recorded that one irritated maiden
being besought by the bear-leader to dance with
one of his cubs said “ she would answer him when
he asked her himself,” and another replied that
“ she preferred a partner who was not too grand
to pay her proper attention when the dance was
over.”
• * •
Just such treatment as these princelings vouch-
safed to Australian girls the Colonial Office
ministers to the Australian colonies. They are
wanted to dance and to pay the piper, but they
are not to choose the tune nor speak to their
partners, nor expect any attention from them.
Australia is not to share the pleasure of saying
“ Yes ”or “ No.” Any unknown flunkey whom
she has never seen, and whose name she has never
heard of, is sent to bid her stand up
and go through her paces, and when the
term is over and the tune played out
she may find her way back to her seat as
she came. The dance is to the measure set by the
Imperial Government, and all phe has to do is to
jump about and be lively. For a long time she
has been very meek. She powdered away in the
“ Naval Tribute Waltz ” with much docility, but
she refused to join in the “ Chinese Treaty
Galop, ” and she threatened to leave the room if
the Galway policeman were forced upon her as a
partner. The last new mode of conciliating her
is to send a more gorgeous flunkey each time.
Thus Bhe has a real live general instead of a mere
superintendent of evictions, and is promised a
lord of high degree instead of a plain knight. But
the game is played out, and in future it is evi-
dent not only that Australia will insist upon
accepting only such partners as she may feel
satisfied to join, but will make all needful conditions
for her own dignity and comfort during the con-
nection and after its termination. The day for
the babyish etiquette with which sovereigns stifle
their subjects has gone by, and its passage has
been accelerated by the folly of those who pos-
sessed the privileges they misused. Had the un-
wise people who brought the boy princes here left
their obsequious observances in abeyance for the
time they would no doubt have been accepted as
reasonable and seemly when some really great
sovereign might by chance touch our shores. It
was the attempt to dignify a couple of loutish lads
with the deference which could hardly have been
exceeded had Kaiser William himself visited
Australia to keep his 90th birthday which made
the Australian girls rebel. It was the attempt to
foist a subordinate official upon Queensland as a
Governor which set New South Wales, South
Australia, and Queensland side by side in de-
manding a right of veto. If the Colonial Office
had picked Sir Henry Norman at first the pro-
test would never have been heard of. But the
freedom of a people is always built upon the
foolish exercise of privileges by their rulers, and
Providence, which usually decrees the extinction
of a royal family by the exhaustion consequent
upon its members’ vices, generally ordains that
kings shall play with the loyalty of their subjects
until they destroy it.
Atkinson anti the Agnews.
Dear Bulletin,— Mrs. Agnew apd her husband
—for, as usual, ’tie the “lesser man ’’ makes the
music—are as familiar to Wellingtonians (N,Z.)
as their own exquisite climate. They are the
couple with an cccult grievance against the Govern-
ment. When Parliament is on they make mem-
bers as mournful as gentlemen well paid for doing
nothing can be made. When the House is in
recess they focus on Ministers. But the Agnews
have fallen on evil days. While the balance
of the Ministry took its pleasure sadly at
the Melbourne races, the Premier, Sir H.
Atkinson, sat in the Government buildings
making holiday with delicious property tax
statistics, surrounded by tons of documents with
official margins, tape, logarithms, Mangnall’s
questions, and similar moral joys, and wearing
those baggy pantaloons that so outraged Yellow-
plush, of the Melbourne Leader, lately. He was
as happy as Providence permits a Premier to be,
but there was a fly in his spikenard—two flies. All
through the long, early summer days the Agnews
waited and watched for his coming. Mrs. A.
established a scientific frontier before the entrance
of the big building, while Mr. A. skirmished on
the flanks and at rear to cut off stragglers and
supplies. When Sir H. ventured out they attacked
him. The robust lady, pointing her fairy
finger close to his nose, would demand if
he wasn't) “ a mane raecxl, robbing the widder
and th orphing !” and Agnew would whisper
“ Shwindler !” in his right pearly ear, and then
dart to his left and ejaculate “ Thafe of ths
woorld !” At last Sir H. daren’t go out to lunch,
but bad a polony or a baked potato and a trotter
conveyed to him and ate them like a passover-
feast, standing, and with his loins girded. Then
the Agnews would send him notes by artless boys,
decoyed by promise of backsheesh, inviting him to
come out and have his gore shed. When he went
home at night various cabs drove up to various
doors, and the entire Civil Service made over-
time at smuggling the Premier on board when
bhe Agnews weren’t looking. These things made
the good old bushwhacker tired, and he cabled
the Ministry to return and take its share of
Agnew. Meanwhile he locked his office aud a file
of armed constabulary watched him with loaded
Sniders. One evening about five, the Agnews
mysteriously disappeared. By-and-bye, a cab
drove up and a gifted clerk rushed the Premier
with the news. Throwing a few blue books and
minutes together, as light refreshments en route,
Sir H. darted for the cab, escorted by the
clerk who banged the door of the vehicle on
his chief and felt his promotion and his best
girl were both won. A moment later earth-
quake rumblings, followed by the yells of a man
in mortal agony, emanated from the cab. The
Civil Service rushed out to discover a broken-
up K.C.M.G. huddled in a corner, and Mrs.
Agnew sitting on his head and spurring him with
bhe ferrule of her gamp and expostulating with
him. How she got there will only be known
when all secrets are made plain. It took a long
time and copious copying-ink to revive pcor Sir
Harry, and in the meantime his best hat, only 15
years old, i 3 a good deal frayed. Now Mrs. and
Mr. A. sit in bhe dim religious light of bhe cruel
prison-cell, with bhe pale nimbus of martyrdom
above their heads, and they and bhe nimbuses will
possibly sib there for the coming six moons.—
Yours, &c., “Ovi.”
“ What relation are you to the prisoner 1”
asked the magistrate of the witness. “Next-door
neighbour, sir,” was the prompt reply.—Ex-
change,
The Sydney D.T. records that a boy while
bathing at Iron Cove was seized by a “ sharp ”
and killed. We really think that lawyers might
confine tbeir depredations to the shore.
A remarkable sensation was produced
lately in one of the Brisbane courts, by a “ learned
friend” recently imported from one of the London
Inns. He stated that he was driven to pursue a
certain course in regard to his case by the know-
ledge that there was One above to whom he had
to render a minute accjunt. It was observed,
when this “bolt from the blue’’was thus suddenly
shot, that the Judge began to take elaborate
notes, the Bar looked as if they were doing some
tight-rope dancing between a go-to-meeting ex-
pression and a grin, the jury were openly dis-
gusted, and the plebs said emphatically, “ Wot’er
you pivin’ us ?”
Industrial Life Assurance.
Like Assurance is one of those questions which
most people reflect upon, and which wise men aot
upon in these latter days. It was not always thus,
but time has changed, and as human life is more
or less uncertain, men deem it prudent to make
provision against the unforseen. A rich man
need not be so anxious about these things, but a
man who is not rich and whose family depends
upon his weekly or quarterly salary has no other
means open to him to provide for the unprovided.
It is a foolish notion to think that there is no use
assuring unless you assure for “ a good round
sum.” A “ little store ” laid aside is better than
no provision at all. It is said in some quarters
that there is now great competion in Life Assur-
ance business ; that may be true, but it is no proof
that it is any the worse for it. Life Assurance is
only in its infancy, and the principles are not
understood nor even thought of by one person in
fifty. The truth of the old adage, that “nothing
succeeds like success ” is strikingly exem-
plified in the case of the Citizens’ Life
Assurance Company, Limited, whose head
offices are at 47 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, with
branches and agencies throughout these colonies.
We continually hear a great deal about the want
of thrift in the working classes, but the results
achieved by the Company in question make it
clear that the “ masses ” are making great strides
in the direction of providing for the future, and in
no class of the community is this making provi-
sion for the future of more importance than to the
“hewers of wood and drawers of water,” who are,
nevertheless, the backbone and sinew of the
country. The great middle or industrial classes
have, until late years, been practically debarred
from availing themselves of the benefits of life
assurance in the Australian colonies, in conse-
quence of the life insurance offices charging their
premiums yearly, half-yearly, or quarterly. But,
whatever excuse there may have been in the
past, there is not a single reason now why
every man, woman, and child should not avail
themselves of the inducements held out by
life assurance offices. The “Citizens” devote
their special attention to that system of life
assurance known as the Industrial, and have
framed tabh s of rates calculated for the weekly
payment of premiums and issue policies for sums
ranging from £lO upwards. Policies on the lives
of children are issued from date of birth. Pay-
ments can be made from Id. a week and upwards,
and the sum assured may be payable at death or
on attaining a given age. Premiums can be paid
weekly, fortnightly, or monthly to suit the con-
venience of the assured, and agents of the Com-
pany call periodically at the houses of the policy-
holders for the payments of sums due. The new
policies issued during 1887 number 19,557, which
far and away eclipses anything ever done in In-
dustrial Life Insurance in these colonies, and
when the annual report for the current year is
issued the number of policies issued during the
year will be seen to be really astonishing. The
Citizens’ Life Assurance Company, Limited,
has earned for itself a reputation that stands
high in the estimation of the Australasian
public for prompt payment of claims.
Out of the large number of claims paid
the Company has never yet gone to law over
a single claim, but, on the contrary, have always
made it a special feature to pay all claims within
a few hours after receipt of the necessary proofs,
and without putting the claimants to any expense
whatever beyond the 2s. necessary for certificate
of death. The Directors have in consequence
received numerous letters of thanks, both through
the Press of Australia and privatelj, from persons
who have been entitled to and received prompt
payment of claims. A list containing copies of
some of the letters received and names of hundreds
of claimants and any other information may be
had on application to any of the Companies’
agents’ branch offices, or at head office. Just
send for a prospectus and see for yourself what
can really be done in the way of Life Assurance
for the payment of even one penny per week.
The Citizens is in every way deserving of the
support which has been given to it by the working
class throughout Australia, and from the good
work it is doing it may be, without doubt, em-
phatically described as the “ Poor Man’s friend.”


Beale and Company
Have 2iT©Tjr Opened
THEIR NEW SHOW ROOMS,
TTT'li.icii. axe tlxe -F'lta.est in, tlxe World I
No matter in what part of the Colony you live, we will supply you with
of oiu
Upon TIME PAYMENT, or at a Liberal Discount FOR CASH.
•X-
R
A
■h; ■,
is
iiiiiiiiiiiiii l ';
%
\\m
-=*■
SSM;:
Price Lists, Photographs, and Catalogues Posted on Application, or from our
Bianch.es a,rcel Travellers
Throughout New South® Walf s and Queensland.
48 2 & 484 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers off
The Celebrated Haydon Organs and Beale Harmoniums.
THE BEALE PATENT WASHER & MANGLE.
The Beale Patent High Arm Sewing Machines.
THE INIMITABLE HAPSBUhG PIANOS.
We Deliver Free of Charge at Nearest Railway Station or Wharf.


Business Announcement*
BRUNTO ITS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOTJR
Oh bo obtained throughout New South Wftlei,
Queensland, and Ylotovla.
SYDNEY ... m ... 84 Pim STBHBtf.
BRISBANE... _ ...Edwabd Stbmbh
MELBOURNE Bsbbb«
E P P S’ S
Grateful—Comforting
COCOA
Westers Australia is the Coming Colons,
A GRAND FIELD FOR PROFITABLE INVESTMENT.
11 The very promising discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to proclaim goldfields at those places,
where there seems every reason to feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
and miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
many things for us, and will be the beginning of a new
era.”—Extract from Governor Broome's Bpeeoh at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a Plan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO EACH LOT. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Land. Torrens’ Title
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Pilburra, Mulga
Mulga are now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
More than 70j000 Cases already Cured 1
the Greatest SuooessV
of Modern Times. /
CONSULT
/ All Chronio Disease
\ are Curable.
Hr, S, E. EISEIH4HH, Coßsultiar Eclectic,
SkiLLBD Specialist for all Chronic Disbasbs,
10 WIUIiH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to oall oan write for a list of ques-
tions (frbb) by whioh they oan be treated equally well at
any distanoe.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronio Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You oan then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
need by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more I
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880
to H. E. Kuoblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Scienoe, &o.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe oough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expeotorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
to Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medioal
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my oase was
Inourable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ourable. ’ During the time I was attended by the above
dootors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
lieotorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
ungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, whioh I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
whioh I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medioines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve veryijst.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and ctTjgh
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. E.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Deolared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
tar All Consultations Free. H
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is inourred in the event of Ohm
HOT BHINQ EFFBCTKD.
FREE
PRM9QBTPTIONB are to
be found In the “ liIGrHT ANI)
LIFE,” for the Speedy Care of NERVOUS DE-
BILITY and Kindred Diseases, &o. A oopy of
this book will be senb Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & 00.,
Sydney Pharmacy,,
7§ Hunter Street Sydney.
0-13-A. 35s rs t SOTEL,
OOBNEB OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
i Lvmmw
acoscßovt
M,
nr
1 i
J 3
$ * I
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’a Hotel) Proprietriss.
the “ PLUM
RAZOR
•I s Y
FOR PRIVATE USE ia Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use.
Never requires Grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor,
10s. 6d. ; or a Pair of Razors in strong - Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRA'G & Al' KEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
- Nine Haircutters always Employed!
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The Working Man's Watch. A Sound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Rest Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMAKERS in TOWN and COUNTRY. *^l
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
Perdriau «§& 00.,
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets &c., &c. Moulded to any Size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
ZEPaxsorvs
<3-ra,pe
©allxa.e.
TRADE MARK—“THE GREENWICH OBSERVATORY.”
Specially prepared from BIPJE FBUIT, and is the best of all Fruit Salines.
HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A preventative of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion, and Sea Sickness.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE. PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
GET IT ONLY AT GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND STOREKEEPERS.
w.
Proprietor *
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., GREENWICH, ENGLAND.
Agents :
H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 QUEEN’S PLACE, SYDNEY.
PARSON’S GRAPE SALINE.
Recreation ! Instruction ! Amusement !
THE
LAIEST
AND
MOST FASCINAIINO
RECREAI lON
IS
raiumi
FOB
AMATEURS,
TOUKISTS,
SCIENTISTS,
CAPTAINS, to.
L
&
i
fi
*4
iMf ■
NOTHING
BETTER
THAN THB
CAMERA!
FOR
ARMY,
NAVY,
POLICE,
WAREHOUSEMEN,
liew Issue Illustrated Catalogue. Send 2d. stamp.
LICHTNER & CO.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney ;
AND
9 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
Assurance Companies,
THB AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGS-
MBNT ASSURANCE and INVBSTMBNT
COMPANY, Llmlbed,
(Ineerporabed by Act of Parliament, IT Vie.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital M A 1,181,111
Paid-up and Subscribed ... MI,III
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy'
Chairman,
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of Interest
For B years _ 7 per oeot.
for B month* i per cent.
For 1 jre»r _ tpu oeot.
For 8 month! _ I per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled oapital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward!.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by Instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED* FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Aaotlon and
Private Oontraot.
Hiad Onion—ll, &IS HUNTER STREET
JNoTa NEILD, Manager.'
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, lift.
OAPITAL, 4699,1 N.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
Melbourne Offices —10, Collins Street East.
Newcastle Offices—Hunter Staeet.
The Company grant Immediate Advanoea upon
Deeds of Land, BUIb of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of In'
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEFOBITB i
8 months, 6 per cent.
® ii I ii
1® ii 8 ii
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of II months,
per oent. 6 months 1} per oent.
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months
renewed, 2 per cent. 6 months, l|t per cent.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
liilitu innennecmenti.
inn
AUSTRALIAN
Christmas Card Serist,
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; per Post, Is. Id.
THIS MOST AUTISTIC SERIES PUBLISHED.
H. King, Photographer, 310 George St., Sydney,
BETWEEN G.P.O. AND HUNTER STREETS.
TATTERSALL’B
vovsTSft coxmumii
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enolose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
WE CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Private Rooms for Dyeing the Hair.
NOTE THE ADDRESS —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(i few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank).
MELBOURNE.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontager,
Parramatta and Lane Gore Riven. Apply,
run**


FIVE GEE Al 1 SOLE
AGENCIES
Ron i sell Pianos
SOLE AGENCY.
Wf6 Claim one Finest Pianos in the
We Claim
We Claim
That this is one of the Finest Pianos for
Standing in Tune.
That this is one of the Finest Pianos for
Retaining its Quality of Tone.
We Claim or Furity of Tone and Durability these
Pianos cannot be excelled.
Bechstein Pianos
SOLE AGENCY.
Faultless in Tone.
Faultless in Touch
Faultless in Workmanship.
Faultless in Durability,
Mignon Pianos
SOLE AGENCY.
For its Size and Price.
UNEQUALLED FOR RICH QUALITY OF TONE.
UNEQUALLED FOR SPLENDID TOUCH.
UNEQUALLED EOR GRAND WORKMANSHIP.
UNEQUALLED IN APPEARANCE.
Wil mer Pianos
SOLE AGENCY.
Favourites with the Profession.
Favourites with
Favourites with the Public.
Favourites with Everybody".
Clough & Warren
O^O-^-iTS.
SOLE AGENCY.
Captivating
Captivating
in Tone.
■' j i
in Touch. ;•
Captivating in Beautiful Effects.
Captivating in Appearance.
VERY LOW PRICES FOR CASH,
OR MAY BE HAD ON OUR
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
Zan.sta.lz3CLean.ts froaccL 20s. IvZoan.tla.l3r.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES and all Particulars on Application.


AUSTRALIAN
Mutual Provident Society .
<, ——
Established ..... 1840.
~H s )>--
Head Office: - 87 Pitt Street, Sydney
DIRECTORS:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman.
JAS. R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAS. THOMSON, Esq.
ROBT. J. KING, Esq.
OT THE= ONLY = AUSTRALASIAN SOCIETY
WHICH DEOLABES
AN ANNUAL BONUS!
Cash Bonus divided for One Year (1887) - £375,343
Policies in Force
Assuring
Annual Income exceeds
Accumulated Funds, nearly
86,500
£30,500,000
1,500,000
8,000,000
Adm-MM A, SLASH, F,LA,
Secretary-RIEHARB THESE, 7,1,A,
PEACE.
Tie Epitallj life lisurauf kitty
Would be willing to sign a Treaty of Peace with ad Competitors. It would be willing to
observe strict silence regarding each and eve y oilier Assurance Company. It would
agree to avoid comparisons and statistical tables and coniine its publications to explana-
tions of Life Assurance, and the advantages secured by beneficiaries under Equitable
Policies, It could.well afford to follow this course.
But such ail ideal condition is not to be expected. The less successful companies
would not agree to it ; or, if they did, they would undoubtedly find it impossible to so
control their envy as to hold their peace. Success awakens envy, and the less successful
companies cannot but feel disappointment and chagrin at the prosperity of the Eqi itabli.,
and in almost every instance are irrcsistably impelle 1 to assail their more successful
competitor. This is foolish. They v.odd secure a larger share of business if they
attended strictly to their own affairs. But they are blinded by piejudice ; anid as I E
EQUITABLE IS THE MOST SUCCESSFUL AND POPULAR COMPANY IN
THE WORLD, the envy, hatred and malice of less successful compannsare, as a rule,
centered upon it.
If its enemies cannot see the wisdom of maintaining only a friendly competition,
or if they cannot exercise self-restraint when left to themselves, the Equitable is always
able to strike back, and to silence its traducera by uttering the truth and exposing the
motives of its assai'ants.
Table showing: the Cost of the New Business of the Equitable Bife Assurance
Society of the U.S. compared with the leading Australian Companies,
compiled January, IXBH.
(1) Financial operations of nine months only. (2) Estimated.
N.B —The Mutual Life of Australasia treats instalments of the first year’s premiums other
than the first as Renewals. Therefore the amount of the New Premiums as given above has had 0
be adjusted by assuming that the new premiums collected would if treated as the other offices treat
them be equal to 90 per cent, of the Annual Premiums payable on the new business of the year.
While it seeks Peace, it has prospered in War; and its strength and prosperity
have been due in no sma 1 degree to the fa it that the assaults of its enemies ha\e ntai e t.
cautious; have incited it to exercise and develop its poweiw a >d op ortumties, and have
thrown s i clear a light on its path that tli) a*tenti mof the public has be n fixed upon its
history and its aims. This is the solut.on of the p>i’adox, that the Tt<ju ta ie ne>er g.QA®
to War except to compass Peace.
Always
for
sd
Tib.© 3P*u.rest
Spirit in tire TX7"orl<d.
Ike deplorable effects which have followed the use of Vile Compounds, sold under the name of SCHNAPPS, should be a caution
to the Public to purchase only that bearing the name of i 6 UdoSpho Wolfe/’
Wolfe's *=©!. Orders.
Some unprincipled Traders, to obtain a Meanly Increased Profit, will deal in Imitations, while
others go so far as to Re fill wolfe’S bottles and Sell them as Genuine.
■As a protection against these Frauds, and in order to ensure the Destruction of the Wrappers, there are Packed in the large-
size Bottles a number of Orders on the Agents, to pay the finder of them One Pound sterling. These are being Cashed Daily.
1500
-w ORDERS!
Representing the sura of £l5OO, have now been found and Cashed
1500
The Public should be careful not to have Imitations or some Cheap Inferior Article palmed off on them as the
C3"©KL’m3-Ku© Scii.iL©diLQrf3nQ. Sell !Q3/pps.
The Only Spirit Recommended by Physicians.


Hotels.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
'Opposite Rahway Terminus, Spencer Street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
cas lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
'''Hl dad all modern improvements, such as light,
°‘ty, aad well-ventilated bedrooms, large publlc-
°om, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, Bhower
0a needle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
siephone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
, .passed Australia. Visitors can rely upon
called for early morning trains. Letters
Od telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERIOAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between Gaorge and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. DrJ
P e er ig a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
*rvard College, U.S. (for confirmation eee New Zealand
* z ette, January 21et, 1886; also New South Wales
"feette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
. ® »AL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
Jjtpitato of the United States, whioh enables him to treat
tim 10m with excellent results. All applying to
will reoeive his honest opinion of their oomplaints.
'tperlmenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
£2oo 9lti ~ 011,6 - ever y case he undertakes, or forfeit
His reason for doing so is this—when there is no
both™ Bea 9e > an d nothing but an inorganio trouble, or,
a r ,p er words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
reeu 't. there is no reason why it oannot be re-
lj e ve<l v| th the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
n ' ,,9 bes it distinctly understood that he does not olaim
Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
People
at a distance oan, by explaining their troubles in
dot • 11 06 treated at home. The course of treatment will
»W n way Interfere with their business. Examine
and advice free to all.
only
Charges moderate. H. J.
re and York
flSoe hoars,
Sundays from
* IBVSIEI6I mill
MI Affltobed with Rheumatic Sou*, Tio
uoLouuz, Aching Pains in ths Lucas,
b, Faob, or Ha ad,
nllh fehOM oxers dating Faina whan ana
. bottle of
1 BOUTHASrS RHEUMATIC PILLS
Mve instant Relief and Cure in a few dan I
*Dr alia f, Rimedy. No ohango In dial
In Bottles, Is., Is. fld., fis., and 111.
C T, FOR BLIGHT,
Mtifal BRATED EYE LOTION.
Lotion Is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
It m t 09dy cares Swelling and Sandy
b. strersjtheiui the sight. Numerous tes
‘ i from those who have recovered throngt
oan be sen. Admitted by the Mediae
to he the ifest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
£ RQXE, Fkaraucantlcil Bkenlit,
SSI QworfffiHotyaet, only.
,p " k Vf
AGNETIC, and ELECTRIC
E, 177 Liverpool street (facing
o — e K-|yjy. under the sole management
VINCENT, Mesmerist and Medical
,°yant of 29 years’ practice in Europe and
j Ca > and 4 years Medical Adviser for the
Remedy Company. All Diseases
(W. 0 ’ chronic or otherwise, by a New Mode of
‘tjy hient peculiarly known to Dr. St Vincent
» “otto being : —“ Nature cures Nature’s
‘ Cancers, Tumors, &c., painlessly and
cured, without cutting, in from three to
Hf j^ B * Whilst Dr. St. Vincent prides him-
H Jj. r , *’ All AO U A/1, kJ U« V iUUCUU JJIIUCO All All
the only person known in the world
iv bgi, .undertake to cure a Cancer of the
Surgical Operations of ary kind;
%<} ’ ®he Doctor guarantees to cure All Diseases
r< W t fco BU ® er ' n g humanity, even when all
and advice has proved a failure.
® a > the Doctor will undertake no case where
hot guarantee a complete cure. NB.
lll orl • J TV— Gi a. JJ.
, Medicine is used, Dr. St. Vincent dis-
k: his own. This is a surety that vou get
s
Jthe 8 the genuine article. A Fact —This
!W e Institution of its kind in the World
J:* .Kinds of Cures are Effected with little
*hedicine.
0480 Copy the Address —
j. DR. ST. VINCENT,
lVor pool Street (facing Hvde Park). Svdnev.
COLEMane&soks
* £IS4Z4I- 7T 0/JL
w
TREE OF LIFE.
xse- f//fALVP^ t 'issi
Victory Ointmen
Business Announcements.
SKATE ROLLERS.
FURKEY BOXWOOD, guaranteed the best in the Ameri-
can market, at the following low prices:—
1J in. Boxwood, in not less than 10,000 lots .. 815 per lot
\ |n- » „ 10,000 „ .. $l7 „
'sin. „ „ 50,000 „ .. $l2 „
: in - »» » 50,000 „ .. $l4 „
Through rate to Australia about $1 500. per 1000 rollers.
Vddress—
JOHN T. LONE,
182 & 184 S. Clark-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
m .
SCAPSSt
tazcKtr
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
AND
562 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, ANI
OTHERS.
<60,000 to Lond.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN A CO., Stock, Station,
>nd Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
<treet, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
(Tor its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
raid. Send your full address, and we will send Post
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Bydn*t Bulletin,
O Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ
JERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strltitl;
n advance). Six Shillings and Sixpenoe per
(uarter, or One Pound per annum.
Thb Bulletin will be on e&*e every Friday at
■he offioe, George Street, or from the runners in
<he street.
*,\WHT o Afi TLE
HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
S Y D N EL Y
'•'POUTERS Or All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And M ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE
original
TH
BAKIA re
%
Quarts
btained a
j FimST CLASS AWARD
I Ifc? OH
RICHEST DECREEOF MERIT
%74/cH ?
&
Bak/hcP^..,
ISTHEBEST IRTHE WORLD!
none other but
WAUGH’S
receivedthe international
P R I X eJM E.OAL
Manufactured byJamesCrahnom
Harbour S t Syonev
Sold by All CrocersandSto/ekeeners
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM'S PILLS
&
&
PATENT
w
PILLS
Sr
a
5K
An universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorder* each as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Heals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
Cold Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
Setite, Shortness of
breath, Costireness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
rag Sensations, to. Ths first dose will give relief
la twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to tor one
Sox of these Pills end they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invariable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* ana
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the moat
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restora the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all desses of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BKJECHAM’ 8 PILLS have the Largett Solo of asv
Potent Medicine in the World.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Fills.
Am a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma.
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Whs swing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the publio and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deorive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BKKCHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
Will ia a short fime be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Bstail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. HelensTLan-
Sashire, England, in boxes Is. ltd. and 2a. Pd. each.
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each hex.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Bbanohes:
64 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Faid-np Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fond 500,000
The Bank has .Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager.
fs
CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
aooording to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mob* MERCURY ob otheb NoxiOßl
Stomachic Contaminations.
ir. T. C. WRIGHT.
Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
tldney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
ihe Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
egaily qualified practitioner advertising In Australia whr
told* the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon H*»
established the
“ flewrun Progressive fled leal Institute.”
18, FLINDERS STREET. WEST. MELBOURNE,
'Or the scientific and effectual cure of all pnaeee of Ne»
roue Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections
Dr Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous
lead, »nd Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors
truptlons, Premature Decay, Inoapaoity for Stud)
ir Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo
ilons, Qenito Urinary Disorders, and all morbtd con
Utlons of the system. It matters not wital you>
troubles may be, oall or write to Dr. Wright, and get bit
lonest opinion of your oomplaint. If It ie curable, ht
w\tt tel) you so: If not, he will tell you also, for he will
undertake a case unless be is nnnflsant of .Wonting. ,
me. It will ooet you nothing for consultation, so satlah
rears that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE,
loiterers can be treated equally well at a dlstanoe
N. 8.—1 wish It distinotly understood that 1 do not claim
te perform Impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
t claim only to be a skilled and suooessful Physiols*
eeroughly Informed In my speciality.
Note Address—
HOHIHIU NOIGiL iistitvte,
58 Fuhdbju Btbmt w., Miibodbnb.
m m«
Medical Institute in
Box 868. Q.P.O.
For sale .
Parramatta and
Bcwwrat OiSae.
Water Frontages,
>ve Rivera. Apply
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRS'! QUALITY.
4
Bass’s Pale Ale.
solk PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
V. Balchln, Johnston & 0o„
Q—trelnl MuueHn, Bond-Street, Sydney
Robert butcher a co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale W ine and
'’Pint Business to
502 a GEORGS STREET
(Between Bathurst And LiverDOol strpptjA
vmw, spirits ma bks SSJta m
Bond at LOWEST RATEa
D R RIDGE'S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and Is now being introduced into tb«
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
' use it.
DR.RIDGK’S royal food mills.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
f. STEPHENSON
«a o* uu-
wnm casks, brewers 1 fiahwi, vats’,
BUM, SHERRY, ft WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
OHIUIHB VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fcc.
COOPERAGE,
IST KENT STREET, and If A SUSSEX ST r
Between King and Market) Store*
Arm Mrau
MoutMM ind wklikan.
Boyd’t Mtmr d JSUmir did thU,
tin&aiU do it on Mtlur bald
kmj or ban fan. Fonm
hxnvMotutaekt in from a t,
« woe** and MMrJMb. 10,000
, , fount m>m alnady nor full
***?• a ° «»h,
u - *f —<*. l / >r C»«
• <i<Mrooo,Sfaukßoulac aim
Boa WO. 6 y. 0.. todmou. B K w *
>tFU| c
SWALDKR, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker.
• 111 PITT BTBRKT.
df
Marquees on Hire.
vmbrkllas
Rfe-COVE R£ o.
s
*l7 oar xcoi
Hn»joa»tTmbreJl» *HMftti
ear Bred, tad raw
ftmfili re-lined end
toJNeer, »i
J. SULHVA*r%
541 George Street
Brickfield Hill, heleeet
Liverpool end Betnant (tub
ParuoJi made to maid iw
turoee Repair* ncetljr tnexW
"troa FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL
D BERNARD’S Piotubb and Mould ino
• p*Oßl, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
tto*el), is acknowledged to be the Beet and
Cheapest In the Colonies. Photos., Engravings
wholly etretohed and mounted. Re gilding
equal to new. Mounts out with real gold edges.
Special * Mention paid Bchool Drawings Plush
'Vr.rk • -T'eelalltv. Inspection Invited.
1F B PRES ERVATIONi
_IA BY
D*. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
!• Lonbdabb Stbbbt East, Miabobbhb.
This work Is a medical treatise describing ao-
.•urately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
I '(Borders and Diseases arising from excesses In-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of Incalculable useto all
.offerers from Nervous, Debilitated and Oon-
t> den trial Complaints.
For the benefit of aU who desire a speedy and
reliable ourative treatment without the aid ot
quacks.
Price Pe» mail Ss. 6d. (any oolonial stamps). To
he had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Do.. 4 A Beckett Street West, Melbourne "


FOR LIVER
ASO
KIDHEY
DISORDERS
DUNSTONE’S
T'OR
KIDNEY,
DISORD
ESSENCE
IS THE ONLY CERTAIN CURE EOR
All Forms of LIVER and KIDNEY DISORDER!
Bead Testimonials wrapped with each Bottle. Of all Chemists at ss. per Bottle.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. Elliott Bros., Limited.
Are efficacious in the milder forms of Liver Complaint. Price, Is. per Box.
The Thurmer Pianos
The Thurmer Pianos
The Thurmer Pianos
The Thurmer Pianos
■ . i,i i""in fr-MPUM—I* ■
PRICE, £42 to £5O,
' N - —Ot OH—
TUB PAYMENT from 80s. MONTHLY.
WfIONSPICUOUS-^l
KOK TUKSK
swmms ii mi,
DURABILITY,
J.M
mmi iiiise!
The Smith Organ:
The Smith Organ:
The Smith Organ:
The Smith Organ:
PRICE, £ll to £lBO.
—OB OS—
f
THE PAYMENT from 20s. ■
Sole Ms, ALLAN S Co.,
MUTUAL STORE
(Opposite Flinders Street Station)
THB MUTUAL STOBB (Established 1872) is the Largest and Host Successful General Establishment in Austral
—IT IS—
"OPEN TO THE GENERAL PUBLI
At the same Price as to its Shareholders. ——
Town and Suburban Orders are Delivered Daily by the Store’s Express Vans. Country and Station Orders
Special Attention. Orders beyond the Border shipped in Bond.
GOODS ffl GREAT
Open to the Public for Cash Purchases.
f
