

20,000
Roller skates
READY
FOR
DELIVERY.
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
Roller skates
p
A word to persons intending opening skating
rinks.—Four things are conducive to the success
of a rink, namely : —A good floor, good music,
good order, and, above all, GOOD SKATES.
The following is a list of the leading American
skates, all of which we have in stock, and can
deliver at once :
Persons intending opening
lll ks, as well as wholesale and
ironmongers, and dealers,
find it to their advantage
&ee these lots at once
. fi r anch office will be opened
Sydney shortly, due notice
will be given in this.
a Per.
IDEAL
RAYMOND
CONNER
EUREKA
WALTHAM
WINSLOW
CROCKER
FEUTON
DUPLEX
WHITE
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
SKATES
' Note to Rink Managers.—
Don’t lisk the success of your
rinks by the use of inferior
skates.
Bear in mind that we have
in stock all the successful makes
that have been used in America
and elsewhere, and act accor-
dingly
HEAD OFFICE :
ST. KILDA SKATING RINK, MELBOURNE.
A. IST. RIDGELY.
The Bulletin


THE LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS? ORGANS? MUSIC?
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FR7M G.P.O.
ALL the best makers kept in stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The iron-framed
“ VICTOR Piano excels all others, and is fully equal in every respect to Pianos sold at £52 and £55.
Call and inspect, or send for Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LECHLEITER Pianos, and
E3TEY and Co.’s American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TIME PAYMENTS, FilOM 20s. f MONTH.
4
&oiofN Sinter
===i3S
fRCACII
ranTixiniimiaiinnriiiTiTft
/.Wl'li
nff/nffis
rsro
u^'iuir.mniumnjiaaji
toss
HDC
iIiH'AC-10 RS
floras
2
2
MAO Office i Factory, ncwtowh
BftA/tCH. CEOPCE ST. SYQPEY
THB AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED.
HHAT) OFFICE CORNER of MARKET and
YORK STREETS. BYDNEY. •
Incorporated bv Act of Executive Council.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD of directors—
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L.A.
J F. Martin, Esq.
John Vann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq
* Last Dividend paid to Shareholders at the rate of 12} per-
oent per annum
Bonus paid to Deposito s of 12 months (2 per oent.)
„ 6 (1 per cent)
The Bank transacts all usual Banking Business, Current
accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advances
upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed
3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per cent. 12 months, 6
per tent. Bj order of the Board of Directors. H.
U'KAMaEA, Secrerarp.
THOS. BU UK LAND,
MIB IK a, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AO**<
Ohaktxbs Towxbs
Agent for Kobe? and Co., Engineers, Lincoln,
i, „ Langland's Foundry Co., Melbourns >
E. D. MILES,
Id IN IN G AND COMMISSION AGRM
Mining Exchange,
charters tow ebb, queen blarl
-V-
-iMßflt UUAS
RECOVERED-
STD DX KCONOM r
ftnd
Bin four Umbrella Vnnn »•
covered and root
Paruoli re-lined and made mm
lo New. *1
J, SUL LI VAK b.
541 Qeorge Btreet,
BriofcSeld Bill, between
Liverpool and Bathurit Strain
farasoU made to mntci
*«mqi fcapalri neatle asm* »*
J M.FEEIAL HOTEL, TOWNSVILLE.
Proprietress, SABAH EATON,
feS of Muswellbrook and Rookhampton
MT Pint-class Family and Commercial Hotei
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
ALFRED LISTER, Proprietor.
This Is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies,
deplete with every comfort and convenience of
modern times for the travelling public, i
NORTHUMBERLAND HOTEL, Gympie.
First-class Accommodation roa Visitors.
WINES AND SPIRITS OF THE CHOICEST
BRANDS.
J, F, E. STEWART, Proprletoi,
GiTTESBTsrSX_.^.Isr3D.
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency.—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher & co
Have Removed their Wholesale W ine and
Spirit Business to t
692 a GEOKGE-STREKT R
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.; «;
WINES, SPIRITS, AND BEERS, In and oui Of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Hetti,
Opposite Parliament Boases, Botanical Sns**»» •
and Queensland Club,.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HUTBJL.
ACCOMMODATION FOE
A W alter Meet* Every Steamer,
Letters and telegrams please address pro<
Bristol)
v.
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets’
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the city.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
JIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
wn, situated oomer of Gill and Churoh-streetß
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor
A SOVEREIGN J EMKDY
la a.' Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout Tio-
Doloreux. Aching Paine in the Limbt
Face, or Head.
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when on*
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM 8 RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Rel ief and Gure in a few days.
The Austral!tin Remedy. No change in diet
necessary In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CURE POSn. BLIGHT
ROSE’S CELEB BRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
ltß agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to.be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared bt ths Bole Proprietor,
6 i. HOSE. Pharmaceutical Chemist,
58 a OeorgeHStreet only.
8 WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
• 296 Pitt-street.
Ki - -
u
A r.
rsvuaf Ommu#
Mqmm+
Q 36 r*9* V
Marqueos on Hire.
ORICINAL
Baking
%
%
WAUGH'S
* WU *AUOH*.O* Uf
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
0"
HIGHEST DECREE OF ME«H
to
Kinor
ISTHEBESTINTHE WORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H S
KCCiiVkbTri'c <Nf tBNAI ion At
PRIUMCDU
Manufactured by James Crahnou
Hamper 4 t s»o«ij
Solder AO Cfoc«£»AadstQnk«qrtt»
TOBACCO
DIXON & SONS
TOBACCC WORKS.
SYDNEY.
T\IXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTOR*
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES THB
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF Imported
f nto New South Wales, and hence the great sal*
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco' 18
Australia,
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 machine made,'
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian
and Paris rice tissue. **"11 size sold bf
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettes*
NEW ZEAI AND
herbal remedies.
TCSTIMAIIUU*
From Uie Bondan Contingent HoiplU
Oorpt; alto from eminent Doctor* and
i_ Btndenti.frera Bydnet Hotpltal
MONK’B
r ■ L K HIXIIKI.
la, 6d. per Bottle.
Aaa for It and take uo anbatltnte.
U »d tnaainable oure Bee aeilttaoulalr
MOITK’B
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhose Miitnrs,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemist*.
2b. 6d. per bottle. ,
MOISTENS
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. fid. per bottle.
Sole Agents!
MATHEY, NATHAN & 00.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY!
AND
II Little ollins treet East, Melbourne.
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL,
"GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitti Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation for Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms wibhout extra charge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Aloook's). First-class chtf.
Charges striotly moderate. Wines and spiritß of
the best brands, Man meebß every steamer,
HANRAN, June., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
FORWARDING AGENTS,
Heafl Office: Townsville, 8. Queensland.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
IMPORTANT NOTICE,
MR. BOLTON (ol the firm of Lowrx ANL
Bolton) wlshea bo Inform the numerom
frlendß of the Firm and bhe travelling public that
he has gone bo Mount Morgan to bake charae ol
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision.
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally Bituabed
and faoing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit
lng bhe oelebrated Mountain will find every oomfori
and oonvenlenoe bo greet them on their arrival
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THB
PREMISES, ALSO STABLING for bhe aooommoda
don or Thirty Horens, and a good FADDUCE
within five minutes walk of the Hotel. Coaohbi
daily noit and to Roo&hampton.
Kom faa Addmu-
• sttlCVUl BOLTON
y. (Of the turn of Lowry fc Bolton),
fiUNLUfcST HOTEL
SUIKkJ JIUJSHhh.An.
IJIHB REMINGTON TYPE-WRIT I
.®*tn labour, nalit-aere. and lliae, writing mash fat
■nen ixmi hu-md, ana loaditni-na Matter to leu U
bnc-half tht iptit oeeapled bp pen writing. Beantl
6rj £“ < ** was ki takan It the anal manner in the leiter-pn
Bold wholeeaU and retail Im the «oU ,w,U,
IMRAY 8c CO.
«10 Want-.etrrwii,
y?7?bb / /?y
C
xki
$
&
0
o*
•wuwmtwtfitr
♦ MWjTCm If
HATS CAPS &
«a CEORCE ST
(SYDNEY
LIVER COMPLAHTT positively cun*) by MOOT-TOff®
FRUIT PILL&. We cocao cured, oot merely reile-'ed, v* ll *
we cum pro re w hat we bht. There ere on hiilurea and t>—
dWeppnlntnienta. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS »!«
*1) BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION end P V:v
PRPSLA, ymxnote DIOB.STION, relieve dlutraw from
heerty eating, correct DISORDERS al the RTOMACR,
■Hmulete the LI V KR, regulate the BOWBLS. end PPRLFi
TUB BLcOOD. The Cheapest and Beut Family MedicI*- 1 * -
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extrac t of t’ruiW
'Huey are a* nearly perfect er It is possible for a Pill to tn.
Seld everywhere. Price la. 3d.
C. £ MOULTON Sole Proprietor.
jyjOUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QNEENSLAND-
Under the distinguished patronage of His B*'
cellency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G. Accomi® 0 '
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. FronJ
the balconies a splendid view can be obtained oI
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a
minutes' walk of the company’s works. Passeng®*
and mall ooaohes daily from Rockhampton
Klbra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pr°‘
pritor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
MOUNT aSAORGLAJNT.
QUEESSLAND "NATIONAL HOTEL.
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up,
is now ready for the reception of visitors-
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brand®
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISER, Proprletr ss
W
U . R 1 L B >•
(ute of the DebectivOiForoe
FvtThte Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
II ROYAL AROADS, SYDNEY
Absconders and wife deserters braced, and all kinds jf
lonftdantlal Inquiries imtituted Bvidenoe obtained •*
livoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for thB legal pr*‘
fusion and othera. Copies of wlUr, certificates of blrtbi
carriage, or death, obtained In any part of the world
Kcnti and debts collected. From R. M. R.'s long experience
In Uw Detective Force of New Booth Wales, Victoria, and
■aw Zealand, and estr-blishod agencies in all parts of tb*
lloba. he It in a position to oonduat all Inquiries with oantlon.
axpstdtius and strictest seoresy, and to faithfully-»n®
0 caw* Jr attend to all butineu entrusted to h ear*.
'£s6 C)/*\
L hhl
Ans»
MARINE
KNQINE&,
BGILER&
WIMPS.
LARGE STOCKS
WITH At!
NEWEST OESICNS
HIGHE ST FINISH
LOWEST COST!
SHIMON
9IMVI
~#USIQH
tlNvyo
LOCOMOTIVES, TUGS, LAUNCHES,^
ESTIMATED FOR COMPLETE.
ROBERT COOPER WEBSTER.
iiOLE ARENT^I
•ydiiej j
XT7 *TQ*CT
Melbourne l
•* <ST»SC»


The Bulletin
r VoI. 9-No. 417
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1888.
Price. (ML
Promoted to be a Chinaman.
QUONG TART (log. IN THE NAME OF HIS IMPERIAL CHINESE MAJESTY I HEREBY CONFER UPON YOU THE DISTINGUISHED ORDER OF THE YELLOW PUP."
JOHN BULL “ WHEN YOU’VE QUITE DONE, MR. TART, I ALSO HAVE SOMETHING TO CONFER.”


" THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 Os. Od .
Half-yearly ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, dc., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
Hinds of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28 1888
Labour and the Press.
The past year, like matly years of depres-
sion which have prec sded it, has left t he
poor all the world over a little poorer and a
little hungrier and more despeiate than
before. Everywhere there have been
periodical struggles between Capital and
Labour—fitfal skirmishes, which merely
foreshadow the great battle tl at is yet to
come, and of these A net'alia, which already
feels bitterly the oppression of foreign
monopoly figuring under the specious de-
signation of foreign capital for the develop-
ment of the country, has had its share.
Among these recurrent upheavals, the Ade-
laide shipping dispute was probably the bit-
terest, and the one whose effects will be
longest felt. The who’e of the Aust-aban
Press, from Adelaide to Cocktown, and from
Perth to Port Darwin, had its say about this
matter in the interes s of the shipowners,
bub the true history of the struggle has never
yet been —probably never will be—written.
In this cas?, as in many others, Walt Whit-
man’s remark about the American Secession
War may be adapted as an expression going
remarkably near to the everlasting truth —
“ The real combat never gets into the news-
papers.” In the else, of course, of the re-
actionary organs, papers after the pattern of
the played-out London Times— of which our
two biggest examples are the Argus and the
Sydney Morning Herald— this sort of
thing is natural enough ; and, indeed, when
the question is one that In any way concerns
“vested interests,” to the maximum of
shallow ignorance will be found added the
maximum of deliberate misrepresentation.
But, in the popular Press—ln the so
called Democratic organs, it would
astonish anyone who did not under-
stand the strictly “ business prin-
ciples ” on which they are conducted, to
find them also, with little variety, “ among
the false prophets.” This leads us to ask if
the claim and title of such papers as the Mel-
bourne Age and the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph to being popular and democratic is
not a mere pretence, and if the Democracy
is not quite as unrepresented in reality in
Australia as in England or France, as in
Germany or Austria, in Italy or Spain.
* * •
What Is the meaning of Democracy ? The
word comes from two Greek words, demos
and Hratein , and signifies the rale or power
of the people. It was the Athenians who
first used the name and applied it to them-
selves, and the popularity of proper names
compounded of this same word Demos (De-
mosthenes, for example, which signifies “ the
strength of the people ’) bears witness to
the emphatic belief of the Athenians in a
joint rule of all the citizens, as opposed to
the despots of the East or the North, or of
the oligarchies which administered neigh-
bouring states like Spartaand Thebes. Athens
was the only true Democracy of antiquity.
The so-called Roman Republic was based on
the dual power of Piebs and Patricians, and
half its history Is that of a reckless and
selfish oligarchy, and the other half of a
selfish despotism made reckless by un-
limited power. None the less Rome called
itself a Republic, and the example of the
first envious aristocratic noodle who drove
out her kings, and of the second who slew
C/EBAR “ because he was ambitious,” are
held up as examples of patriotism, whereas
these men were only nairow-minded, super-
cilious fools who fought and perished for
caste and clique. The Roman “ Demo
cracy ” never existed. When the Emperors,
headed by Augustus, a* tempted to make it
a reality in Italy, they found that the age-
long rule of the aristocrats, with their land-
grabbing policy and those huge estates which
Horace laments as a national calamity.
had practically abolished the yeomen and
the mechanics. No, Athens alone in anti-
quity held the ideal of a true Democracy, and
her passionate cult of the perfect balance, the
“ nothing in excess,” in her spiritual life,
found its parallel inhersociallifeinherequally
passionate cult of equality whether in wealta
or status. “ Choose equa'ity and shun greed,”
says their great dramatist Menander, in a
day when this choice and aversion were in
the wrong direction, and the noble Athenian
ideal, the beacon-light cf antiquity, was on
the eve of being lest in the waves of ambi-
tion and avarice.
* * *
For ages this ideal, tho true Democratic
ideal, remained out of sight. The e»rly
Christians had it : they derived it fiom
Jesus, who was before all a man of the
People—who despised and bated and loathed
the rich. But, by the time Christianity
came on the scene of civilisation as a power,
it was already corrupt. The Christian Em-
perors and the Popes were as much the
friends of greed, and the foes of equality as
their Pagan predecessors. It is in England
—in the England of the 14th century—that
once more this ideal rises, and once more the
Democratic demand is put forth.
* * *
What makes the Peasants’ Revolt of 1381
so important is just this. It anticipated the
French Revolution of 1793 in every particu-
lar but one—success. It proclaimed the
liberty, equality, and fraternity of all man
kind, and raised its passionate protest
against the civilisation of the few or die de-
gradation of the many. In those days, the
few meant the well born—birth and wealth
going together—and the catch-words of these
first of our modern Socialists still ring, not
only in our ears, but in our hearts.
“ When Adam delved, end Eve span,
Who was then the gentleman ?
asked John Ball, the striker of the move-
ment. “If we all come of the same father
and mother,” he reiterated, “ how can they
say or prove that they are better than we,
if it be not that they make us gain for them by
our toil what they spend in their pride ? ”
And is not this just what the modern
Socialist asks, only not so much from the
ptayed-out children of birth, as from the
triumphant and tyrannical children of
wealth ?
• # *
The next effort after Democracy was made
by the Puritans, or rather, by a section of
thim, the Independents. And these soon
found that, when they had oonquered Kings
and Aristocrats, they had a worse foe to face
in their own ranks, l'hemiddle class had made
its appearance, ‘‘Relieve the oppressed,”
wrote Cromwell fiercely from Dunbar to
the Parliament of well-to-do “ saints ” in
London who fattened on the victories of the
rank and-file of the army ; “hear the groan
of poor prisoners. Be pleased to reform the
abuses of all professions. If there be anyone
that makes many poor to make one rich, that
suits not a commonwealth ! ” What else does
the modem Socialist say when he faces an
Astor, a Jay Gould, a Vanderbilt, or a
Duke of Westminister, a Brassey, a Cham
berlain ? But the Puritan effort after
Democracy lost itself in the quagmires of
religious fanaticism, and the rejection of the
impossible Reactioniarism of the Stuarts
only resulted In the derpotism of the
nobles which remained unbroken till 1830.
* * #
The people next to raise the Democratic
demand were the French ia 1793, and the
careerof the Revolution and of Napoleon was,
despite aberrations and even prostitutions, a
frantic endeavour to enforce the need of
men’s equal rights upon Europe. That
endeavour ultimately failed, and in the long
peace that followed on it the stupendous dis-
coveries of machinery created the new class
of Capital and the equally new class of
Labour. Competition brought down wages
to the life-line, and sometimes even below
it, aud when, in 1832, the English middle-
class, when, in 1852, the French middle-
class, entered on their lease of supreme
p twer, they had ceased to be the Democracy
at all The history of the last 50 years has
been the history ot the combat between the
pseudo-Democracy or middle-class and the
real Democracy or Labour. The Chartists’
Riots were the first outburst cf Labour's
wrath at having teen fooled by the Reform
Bill of 1832. The French Commune cf 1870
was only a repetition of the same
fact, defined and intensified. The “ Liberal
im ” of the English, or of the
French bourgeoise Governments of the last 50
years, has meant jest this—the cant of
“Democratic’' ideas, the profession of the
middle-c'aas (of those who are capitalists or
hope to become so), of the love for ‘‘liberty,
equality, fraternity,” and their dogged de-
termination to keep Labour in its present
enslaved and plundered condition.
• • *
“ How can they say or prove they be better
than toe, if it be not that they make us gain
for them by our toil what they spend in their
pride ?” Even so! The whole present
social system rests on the iniquity of that
'■'make:' Competition compels Labour to
take what in no way represents the worth of
its work, what more and more represents
merely the minimum on which a strong
man can exist. The insult, then, t”c
mockery of such a suggestion as that made
some time ago by the Daily Tele-
graph—that since, forsooth, the times are
bad, Labour should not mind sharing the
loss with Capital, and wages be re-
duced—becomes apparent! In other words,
if the 100 per cent, profit of work
—Capital having, thinks to tho thumb-screw
of competition, had its 97 per cent.—be re-
duced to 70, Lob our should give up a p :rtion
of her wretched three ! Wbat is the good of a
paper like this calling ffse f “Democratic ” ?
It epeaks and acts in t u e interests, not of
the Demos, but of the psuedo-Demos ; nob
of Labour, the euff.-rsr from competition,
but of the middle-class—the enjoyer of the
middle-man’s plunder. Labour has no voice.
The Press is c’osed to It by prejudice and
interes*-. The statement o! its cause lies io
the hands of its enemies. Everyone who
knows the real 1 istory of trade disputes
knows that the casus belli put forward
is never the real one. The employers
ate clever men who work to their
ends by clever means. The emplojejs are
ignorant souls who feel bitterly the
initial iniquity of the whole thing, but who
see that to declare what they believe —
namely, that they are being systematically
plundered of the worth of their work—that
the ships they load and man, the factor es
they keep busy, are theirj, and no one
else’s, if the fact of having made and n at-
tained in existence a thing cinstitutes tin
ownership c f it—they sse that, to s ate this,
would do no good but rather harm, and they,
too, are compelled to work to their ends by
the means they have at hand—patience,
courage, combination ! It is no matter that
their foes lie about them, that their so-
called friend?, the “ popu’ar Press, 1 ’ misre-
present them, An end mu t yet come to
their great initial iniquity, because it is an
iniquity and because 99 people out of every
100 are concerned in its abolishment. The
capitalist must go, or Demrcr&cy must go
‘ If there be anyone that makes many poor to
make one rich , that suits not a Common-
wealth.” Tee trick whereby Labour over
all the earth is defrauded of the worth of its
work must at last be patent to all, and the
poor will no longer be made by the rich to
“ gain for the rich by the toil of the poor, what
the rich spend in their pride"
The Military Regime in Australia.
The great Imperial schem ?, by which this Con-
tinent is to be degraded to the level of an outly-
ing English province, is steadily unfolding, and
England is once more knocking at the gates of
futurity for the President of the United States of
Australia. The miserable African expedition of
three years ago impressed the Jingoes of Britain
with the idea that Australia was filled with a
hunger for military glory, and the party which is
always wanting to go out and kill something has
ever since regarded this land as a possible recruit-
ing ground for the miserable little army which
fights the battles of England on two meals a day.
The late Imperial Conference gave the astute
Salisbury a chance to size up the statesmen of
Australia, and he weighed them one by one, and
found them snobs and traitors almost to a mm.
In return for the meanest tide which the Queen
can confer —a title which, in England, ranks little
higher than the medal which is conferred upon a
Cochin-China rooster at a country hog-exhibition
—they virtually pledged themselves to a scheme
which would place Australia at the mercy of a
foreign fleet commanded by a foreign admiral,
and the partial success of this naval offence
scheme is already leading to further developments
of the great Imperial conspiracy.
* * *
For the last few weeks a strange rumour has
filled the air—a rumour which points to further
aggression of a kind which will reduce Australia
to the level of Ireland or India, and place her ita
the same position as that which Bulgaria occupied
during the 100 years when she groaoed under the
yoke of the .Selims and Amuraths of Constanti-
nople. The report bears no direct mark of official
sanction, but it is fathered by the organ of Im-
perialism in Melbourne, and is evidently thrown
out to test the feeling of a nation which has
already endured much for the great cause of
foreign slavery and British grovel. For many
years the land forces of Australia have been
maintained on an independent basis; the
infamous New South Wales Corps has long been
a thing of the past, and the troop 3 which
massacred the oppressed diggers of Ballarat have
gone back to the land where they learned their
first lessons in barbarism and slaughter. The good
old days when Australia was garrisoned like a
conquered ceuntry are left far away among the
slimy wrecks of history, andno one regrets them ex-
cept possibly the erstwhile Plain Bill in his
hermitage at Manly, and a few other Tories of
the same dismal school. But the fatuous Salis-
bury still dreams of a day when that old history
will be revived, and when an army commanded
by an Imperial officer, and directed from the
offices in Downing-street will overawe the grow-
ing Republican party in Melbourne and Sydney,
just as another British host endea-
voured to overawe Israel Putnam’s little army
at Boston more than a century ago. * The troops
of the various Australian colonies, it is proposed,
shall be organised into one force, under the com-
mand of a general who will be kindly lent by
Britain for the purpose, and who will he independent
of all local authorii y, and with the accomplishment
of this scheme, Australia will be wiped off the
roll of nations, and will become, like Ireland or
Burmah, a military province dependent on Britain
and ruled by the British bureaucracy.
* # •
The British military despot whom it is thus
proposed to foist upon Australia could be con-
trolled by no colonial authority, and the Parlia-
ments and the people of this Continent would be
equally at his mercy. All the forces of the land,
from Carpentaria to the Great Australian Bight,
would be under his command, and his domain
would probably also include the whole archi-
pelago, so that the dark-skinned natives of Fiji
might be enrolled to suppress the rebellious ten-
dencies of New South Wales, or the warlike
Maoris might be induced to abandon the spears
and clubs of their' forefathers and adopt the
British uniform and the British bayonet in order
to keep order in Queensland, or suppress a grow-
ing republican sentiment in Adelaide, The troops
of one colony could be used to quell the in-
cipient mutiny of another, and there exists
no central authority which could speak
with the voice of a united Australian people
against the regime of military dictatorship.
Moreover, oven in tho event of a unanimous re-
fusal on the part of the proposed Australian army
to act as the instrument of the proposed English
general in Australia in suppressing national
liberty, the alien commander himself would serve
as a rallying point for Imperialism. The power
which created him would neoessarily feel called
uoon to support him, and the forces most readily
available for such a service would be the
Sepoys of India—the same whom the mounte-
bank Disraeli brought to Malta, not many
years ago, and whom he was on the verge
of letting loose upon distracted Europe. The one
central axiom of the Tory creed is that .the dig-
nity of the Crown must be upheld ; it was for the
sake of this principle that the dark-skinned
hordes of Hindostan were so nearly being
poured down on the desolated plains of Bul-
garia ten years ago, and the party which
t ireate-oed, in defence of its mouldy creed,
to show the Asiatics the road into Europe
would hardly hesitate to take a similar
step in Australia,, should this country be
weak and mad enourh to accept a military
incubus which nothing but wholesale mutiny and
rebellion could ever cast off.
• •
Should Australia be inducedto hand over hermili-
tary, as well as her naval, defences to foreign
hands she will appear before the -world in a new
light. The country which voluntarily entrusts
her protection to alien mercenaries is generally
regarded as beyond contempt in her weakness
and her cowardic?, and the country which en-
trusts her defex.ee to England—a land which,
among the armed nations of Europe,
has became ci late years a byeword
for impotence—will have reached the lowest
depth of degradation in the eyes of foreign
powers. The protection which England extends
to her own subjects in Samoa and the other
islands of the South Seas is of such a k ind that
Englishmen are insulted with impunity by every
potentate whose importance is just a little greater
than that of the imbecile ruler of Tonga, and in
South Africa the tribes over whom she has ex-
tended her shield are raided and slaughtered by
the Dutch farmers cf the Cape, without even
an attempt at remonstrance. British pro-
tection ii a thing which, now a-dafs, even
a petty Hottentot chief would hardly sacri-
fice his independence to obtain, and if Aus-
tralia is ever induced to give up her liberty in
return for the shadowy benefits to be gained by
the presence of a cast-off Eritish general, she will
surrender so much in exchange for so very little
that it will be difficult to find words with which
to define the measure of her folly. The benefits
to be derived from the act of stupendous treachery
that is now voiced abroad will be confined solely
to the grovelling Premiers who are prepared
to sell their country for a pension, and to
barter away a nation’s libsrty in return for
the privilege of dragging half the alphabet in
captivity behind their ignoble names The bar-
gain, however, is hardly worth entering upon
while titles can be bought so much more cheaply
in the European market. Less than half of the
amount now at the credit of the Parkes charity
would buy the great Hi-Ham an Italian dukedom,
and a marqu’sate c n be obtained at an equally
modera e rate. I robably, too, a reduction
would be made upon ta'icg a quantity,
and under these circumstances the cheapest
and best expedient for the Australian
people would bi to purchase a title right off for
all those Australian politicians who cannot be in-
duced to walk straight unless their entire front
aspect is covered with deoorations. At the
present moment the majority of the so-called
statesmen of Australia are grinding ceaselessly at
the Imperial barrel-organ in the hope of a reward
to follow, and the only way to meet their views is
to pay them as the or*:an grinder Is paid—“not
for grind but for shut up and go away.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“A Paper Called ‘The Bulletin.'"
For once we regret the circumscribed scope and
limited circulation of our honoured contemporary,
the Yellow Agony, alias the Prodesthant
Sthandard. Not contented with the frantic at
tempt to advertise U 3 on the part of the Victorian
quarantine sheet of the same name, the Sydney
organ of Orangeism and theological jaundice in a
recent issue rushes into a column of space with
the same laudable object. For once, we say, we
regret the limited circulation of the paper in
question, which attempts to sound the trumpet
blast of fame in our favour under the caption
which appears at the head of this paragraph.
Wbat, after all, would a little additional sacer-
dotal bile signify when the glory of a widely-
spread and gorgeous “ ad.” was in question? We
wildly ask, is the Editor of the Boyne Shriek
trying to get at us ? Does he want us to do him
any considerable service in the immediate future ?
Bis compliments are extravagant and laid on with
a journalistic trowel ; his measure of our in-
fluence touches the limits of hyperbole. After
narrating the origin of The Bulletin and in-
dulging in reminiscences of the first number, even
to a description of a cartoon “caricaturing a
member of the t ew South Wales Assembly,” and
thereby proving not only the possession of an ex-
cellent memory, but bearing witness also to the
tremendous effect The Bulletin must have had
upon his sensibilities, he says :
"The new journal was well written, and betokened the
presence of an editor with the memory of a Macaulay. It
was a meows from the start, and soon made itself popular with
the people., rapidly gaining a wide circulation . it introduced
more pictures, put a wrapper on, doubled its price, and had
things generally its two way—one reason for this being that
Sydney was most wretchedly off in the way of ironic litera-
ture, for Sydney Punch was about the moat dolorous at>-
tempt at being funny conceivable, and the pictures in it even
worse than the reading matter."
If this is not “ jam ” of the most prenouncedly
highly-sweetened brand we should like to know
what is ? Then the editor of the Loyal Howl
points out why The Bulletin “ had things
generally its own way,” and he does this with
that sly and rollicking humour for which parsons
and Low Church bishops are so notoriously re-
markable :
“ Any loyal Briton now taking up a copy of it will be
pained at the amount of aedition, Home Rule, and irreli-
gion the editor manages to crowd into its columns; every op-
portunity is seized when an insult can be offered to our
Sovereign or the Prince of Wales, and the freest advantage
is taken of it to do ao."
Comical dog I What magnificent humour !As if
he didn’t know that it was just about impossible
to “ insult ” the Prince of Wales ! But he con-
tinues in the same side-splitting vein of Ethiopian
fun :
“ The nobility comes in for a very fall share cf sneers, and
the British Lion—representing tne British raoe—is con-
tinually presented in humiliating caricature.''
Now, docs not the editor of tbo Quarantine
Banshee know full well that it is a matter of
utter impossibility to subject to “ humiliating
caricature ” that high and mighty British race,
with its Bible and bayonet and bludgeon, and
the secret of England’s greatness, and Oliver
Cromwell’s autograph, and WiLLUM-of-pious-
and-immortal-memory’s sign-manual stamped all
over it ? “ But it’s only his fun,” as Caleb


Ptummer remarks in Dickens’ Cricket on the
Hearth.” Then he jogs along with more glory
and turns up with a passage written in a still
higher key . ,
u of relision. The Bulletin ib a worthy rival
0 ;;s«r:.. <>«* the bulletin
all the wit''
As a sample of the latter, the Canary-tinted
Twitter gives an extract relating to the Bon.
tak Balfour’s proposal in the Melbourne Pres-
hvterv to appoint a Sabbath for the offering of
nrayer on behalf of the Crown Prince of Germany
In which this journal offered to produce a patient
suffering from the same complaint as that with
which the German Prince was afflicted, who could
he nrayed for on the premises for any sum up to
ni) o 000 • money and cancer to be put up
at The' Bulletin office within one hour after
the acceptance of the challenge. Says the Sthan-
dard’s editor, in his dry, humorous style
'• The Mayers, however, were duly offered, and the Crown
Prince! to better health, and, as the doctors were unable
to do him "ny service, will The Bulletin now assert that
the prayers were worthless ?’
After several other extracts from Ihe Bulleiin,
which the editor of the Yellow-Ochre Groan evi-
dently sedulously reads and highly appreciates,
the article concludes with apathetic regret that
“ The Bulletin is not a paper for an Orange-
man’s household,” but, of course, the ludicrous
dog knows full well that every Orangeman who
reads this ambiguously-worded sentence will im-
mediately pawn all he has and rush out into the
cold, silent streets and the winter’s rain or the
summer’s heat, to purchase the latest edition el
the paper he so humorously commends. Verily,
we regret, with tears welling up from unfathom-
able depths through our larynx, that our contem-
porary has so small a circulation.
Goschen and the Golden Egg.
Mr. Goschen, the Tory Chancellor of the British
Exchequer, has found out that we are a very, very
happy generation, and that the present condition
of things is better than anything since the advent
of the first vanilla and ice cream man amid the
throes of tottering empires. In an address which
he recently delivered before the Royal Statistical
Society for the advancement of universal bank-
ruptcy and the wholesa’e manufacture of divi-
dends for the children of Israel, Mr. Goschen
made the remarkable discovery that Henry
George was altogether mistaken, that wealth was
not accumulating in the hands of a few, and that
the theory of the correlative magnitude of pro-
gress and poverty was a dark and dismal fallacy.
In other words, Mr. Goschen discovered that
there were more incomes in England of £2OOO per
annum and under than formerly, and that this
superior distribution of wealth was owing to the
growth of co operative companies, which divided
the accumulated profits of business con-
cerns amongst a greater number than m
those past days when co-operation was un-
known and business concerns were manipu-
lated by a single individual. Of course, Mr.
Goschen’s contention is pure sophistry. The
trouble of modern sociology is not as to whether
Brown should have £20,000 per annum or a joint-
stock company representing ten Browns should
divide £20,000 per annum amoDgat its share-
holders. The fact still remains that there is
“profit”—value created by Labour and appro-
priated by Capital. Whether the capital is pos-
sessed by one great capitalist or 50 small ones,
it alters not the principle. Indeed, the more
rapidly Capital accumulates in the hands of the
few the better. The question can then be more
easily dealt with. If It is good that all land
should he owned by the State, it is manifestly
wrong that peasant proprietorship should be en-
couraged. It is only increasing the number of
those with whom it will be necessary some
day to deal. It is only multiplying the
holders of vested interests agreed on keep-
ing up the existing condition of things.
Similarly with the question of Labour. The pro-
letarian cares very little if the results of his
labour be filched by a single man or a company
trading as a single man. Indeed, the company is
the more callous and pitiless, representing, as it
doe 3, the principle of transferred responsibility.
The inexorable JoßKi'Sis the game played con-
tinuously by the corporation, the thing which, as
Sydney smith facetiously observed, has neither a
body to kick nor a soul to damn. The incomes of
the increasing number of £2OOO per annum people
are not a subject of congratulation to the white
wage slave who receives £26 for 12 months’ work,
when work is to be had. The proletarian has
little sympathy and can be expected to have less
with the advocacy of the permanence of a con-
dition of things which simply transfers the right
to rob from the robber aristocracy to the greasy
trader. It is only a case of the fox desirous to
know of the barn-fowl what sauce he would like
to be eaten with. Labour it is which makes
“ profit ” and a continuance of a condition of
things which permits the annexation of the
results of Labour by anybody—no matter whether
big capitalist or little —who tossed to the creator
of that “profit” only a bare subsistence wage, is ini-
quitous, Goschen notwithstanding, and the school
of political economy which he is supposed to repre-
sent. The social problem is not concerned with the
distribution of the luxuries of life amongst the
already comfortably off. It worries little that
those already in possession of bread and meat and
good tweed clothing should feed on truffles and
clothe themselves in velvets and satins while there
is such a thing as starvation in the world. The
equalisation of opportunity and the reservation
to the individual of the results of his own labour
are the questions which interest those concerned
in the amelioration of the lot of the unfortunate.
And in this connection Mr. Goschen has proved
too much against his own school. His investiga-
tion has resulted in ascribing what little ameliora-
tion there has been effected to co-operation. As-
suming this to be so, he has condemned the
system of individualism without drawing the line
where oo operation should leave off. If it, in so
limited a field of operation, has accomplished so
much, why not universally adopt it and realise
the communal principle ? Mr. Goschen, the Tory,
has all unconsciously, while advocating the doc-
trine of Conservatism, been bolding a brief for
revolution and .Social Democracy. Co-operation
pushed to its logical issue wuuld sweep before it
everything of the brand which has hitherto
rendered the Gosuhens possible.
+
Land nationalisation and the Crofters.
The Highland crofters are giving trouble. They
are showing that agrarian difficulties are not con-
fined to Ireland, and that land-leagueism is not
the outcome of mere racial hatred. In fact, Ire
land has received a deal of spurious sympathy to
which she is entitled not one jot. Irish rational
and denominational journals are fond of claiming
bays for Michael Davitt and curses for Henry
George, as if there were any difference in their
attitude in regard to the land. To whatever sym
pathy Ireland is entitled, it is the outcome of
broad humanitarian feeling. All the world over
similar difficulties are continually arising, and
these evoke similar interest and similar expres-
sions of sympathy. A few days since, a cable from
London announced that Lady Matheson, who
owns the Island of Lewis—a portion of the Outer
Hebrides, known as Long Island —of which she
regularly draws rentals for 350,000 acres let out
for shooting, and of which 200,000 acres are
strictly preserved, had refused to restore to the
Crofters’land League their “ ancient ” holdings
at reduced rents. Secure in her territorial rights,
she advised them “ to emigrate to the colonies.”
Then followed a timorous telegraphic surmise
that “outbreaks” were to be expected, backed
up with an assurance that a British gunboat
would proceed to the island and protect the rights
of “propitty,” or the arrogant selfishness of one
wealthy woman against thousands of starving
men, who have certainly more light to existence
than she, and whose loss would be more keenly
felt by the nation than hers. Four days after,
the “ outbreaks ” were characterised by the
electric calumniator as “ revolts,” and a
“ general rising ” was wailingly apprehended.
In due course came a line to the effect that the
“ general rising ” had eventuated and had swept
away in one fine crofter tidal-wave all the repre-
sentatives of law and order sent to arrest it. A
large body”—of crofters— “ resumed the raids
and the police attempted to stop them. A colli-
sion ensued, the result of which was that the
police were defeated and were compelled to re-
tire.” This is moderately reassuring. Provided
the crofters are martyrs enough to hold out until
the military are sent against them ; provided that
they allow a few of their number t o be shot down
or bayoneted for the good of the cause,. public
sympathy will be awakened, and they will pro-
bably get their rights— for, after all, the crofters
have “ rights ” as well as my Lady Matheson.
Lewis Island is the larger part of Long Island,
the other portion consisting of a smaller piece cf
land connected to it by an isthmus. It is one of
the Outer Hebrides group. Of the Inner Hebrides
one island, viz., Skye, sent to the battlefields of
the Peninsula more fighting-men than at present
inhabit the entire island. The people of
Skye have been evicted by hundreds, and driven
away to America, and this will probably be
the fate of their neighbours if the arrogant
usurper of their property is allowed to persist in
her inhuman conduct. But this is unlikely.
Whenever the Briton perceives an injustice per-
petrated by the one upon the many, he speedily
awakens to a sense of the wrong. It
is when the wrong ■ doers are numerous
and the injustice spread over a wide
area that the average pig-headed Englishman
clamours for a continuance of vested interests in
all their innate iniquity. In the present case is to
be seen a beautiful reductio ad absurdum of the
theory of private property in land. On the one
side, a grasping woman with a second-rate handle
to her name, endeavours to dispossess and drive
into exile the old original inhabitants, whose sires
were born and died, whose children were reared,
and whose rough homes were planted in the
rugged little isle. It is nothing to this titled
harpy that these poor fellows have cherished
traditions cf their birthplace and warm feelings of
patriotism for the old home of their fathers. She
coarsely and callously tells the u to “ emigrate in
order that she may continue to reap the rents of
320,000 acres, let out to idle sybarites and worn-
out rones, who repair to the islands to shoot and
to recupei'ate energies vitiated in nameless orgies
and midnight dissipation. Will the world, with
all its boasted philanthropy, look on while a
woman destroys a race ? Of one thing we are
assured —the crofters are of a strong-hearted and
sturdy stock who will not be driven from the land
of their ancestors without a fierce and determined
struggle. Providence is deaf now-a-days, or we
should add : May He defend the right!
“ Halting Hell with u Fine-Tooth Comb.”
When an alleged statesman describes an oppo-
nent under the pseudonym of “ Dick Turpin, ”
insinuates that a whilom supporter was an insig-
nificant “mole-eyed” nonenity, characterises a
harmless little individual as a person mainly
notorious for “ spread-eagle whiskers,” an ex-
traordinary face,” and the general appearance of
a “ withered tarantula” ; when this alleged
statesman denounces the general voting public as
“ crimps, thieves, and blacklegs,” and attempts
to annihilate anyone opposed to his policy with
an expression like —“ you craven-spirited, poodle-
headed, creeping creature,” we should say
that it could only be accounted for by
supposing that there was a mental break-
down in the speaker’s brain. Yet these
are the elegant formula; employed by Sir Henry
Parkes by way of expressing his dissatisfaction
on certain points with his opponents at various
times not far remote in history. Of course, these
phrases must not be taken as expressing Sir
Henry’s moral and personal estimate of those op-
posed to him. Those “ in the swim” know how
little significance is to be attached to the lofty
moral denunciations of a political partisan. These
somewhat depreciating estimates of public men
are simply assumed for the moment for the pur-
pose of stimulating the rather sluggish palate of an
audience accustomed to energetic literary flavours
and oratorical condiments. If Sir Henry Parkes
had the power of indignant denunciation of a
Gladstone or the keen, polished satire of a Dis-
raeli, he would not be driven to characterise
his opponents by the use of expressions originated
somewhere in the back-slums. Such utterances
as those of Sir Henry’s which we have instanced,
like thoss of wranglers who exchange epithets
over pots of beer, spring from the desire to con-
vey strong meanings struggling against incapacity
of expression, with the consequent lapse into
hacknij ed abuse, foul language, and blasphemy.
Could those spluttering orators be suddenly en-
dowed with the gift of expression, their thoughts,
if they have any, would find vent in appropriate
language, which would be stronger that it was
their own, and was the accurate reproduction of
their sentiment. After all, party politics are a
bad sebool both for the mental and moral nature
of all except the strongest. 1 he man comes in time
to believe in his own extravagant representations.
His histrionics become his nature-. He sets out as
charlatan and ends as dupo. And all these com-
bined io fluences may have produced such ravages
in the never very robust intellect of Sir H f.nkv
Parkes that he really believes all lie says, there
is no necessity for writing any further on this sub-
ject. It is really a paraphrase of what the Sydney
D.T, wrote about Mr. James Fletcher, and an
expression of his regarding the present glorious
Freetrade Ministry of New South Wales, but it
fits Sir Henry Parkes and his recent election
speeches even better, so we resolved to
give him the benefit of our daily contemporary's
wit.
I
The Charity of the British Tory.
The British Primrose League has fixed up a
“minit” expressive of its sorrow that the working
classes won’t read Tory journals. The “lower
orders ” can’t afford to buy a daily paper, and the
weeklies are mostly villainous Radical produc-
tions, which teach the toiler that it isn’t neces-
sarily his duty to love the squire and his relations,
including his mother-in-law and his aunt. Con-
sequently the sons of toil are becoming demoralised
and the League has resolved to combat this pain-
ful s f ate of things by distributing the Morning
Post gratis among the homes of the poor.
“ Papers of sound Conservative and Constitutional
principles,” says this Primrose minute, “taken
and left at the very homes of the poor, would, by
being placed at the elbows of the poor man after
bi 3 daily work ” would, in short, be very
acceptable, and would lead the humble labourer
to be content with his lot. The spirit of Tory
charity has been fairly roused, and in ihe future,
when the poverty-stricken “ unemployed” re-
turns to his starving family, after a weary
round in hopeless search of a crust, he is
to be gladdened by a paper to read in which
he will find full details as to the movements
of the upper classes, and valuable particu-
lars regarding ducal entertainments and the
Archbishop of Canterbury’s lawn parties. Even
when his landlord tires him and his famished
children out of their cellar—which is frequently an
old ashpit roofed in and rented at 4 s. a week, or a
coalhole with a window-sash inserted and rags
and old hats in place of glass-panes —he may, if he
is an active and intelligent character, obtain a
Morning Post by waylaying the man who car-
ries them round for distribution, and camp under
a dry arch to read about bis blessed Queen and
the millions she has hosrded away against a rainy
day. Items of Court intelligence will also be
placed at his disposal while the bailiff is in pos-
session of his solitary room —which is bedroom,
dining-room, kitchen, and scullery all in one, with
a board, propped up at each end by two bricks,
for its entire furniture ; and when the tax-col-
lector has jumped—verbally we mean —upon
his mother because the bedridden old
lemale can’t pay the 2s. 2d. due for polios rates
he can fly to the columns of the gratis Tory rag
for surcease from sorrow, and peruse the Bishop’s
appeal to the poor to deny themselves and sub-
scribe for a new altar-cloth and a sacerdotal
shirt for the church of Saint Barabbas in-the
[itch. As we already remarked, the sp'rit of
charity is at last fairly arcused in the tritish Con-
servative and the starving, toiling, suffering multi-
tude who wrestle with the dogs for a rotten bone
to save themselves from utter starvation will not
want for something to read so long as there is a
yesterday’s Tory paper in the land. The obtuse
and hungry toiler asks for bread, and the British
nobility give him a Morning Post. If he can’t
read it, he may possibly be able to eat it.
+
The Fydney D.T. reports that the Emperor of
China has sent presents to Sir Henry Parkes
and Mr. Burns, which action goes to show that
the sentiment of gratitude is not entirely absent
from the bosom of the Imperial Chow. The two
politicians, to whom the head idolater at Fekin
thus chuciS a bone, have fought the battle of the
yellow nightmare to the best of their ability.
'1 hey have strained every nerve to earn the grati-
tude of the unclean followers of Buddha by afford-
ling them all possible facilities for importing goods
manufactured by a dish-cloth-coloured race at the
rate of Id. a day, in order that they may undersell
the white Australian and starve him out, and the
boss unbeliever has heard of this and is thankful.
1 lie Commissioners, whom he sent to spy out the
nakedness and idiocy of the land, have returned
and reported that New South Wales is ruled by a
big foreign devil with a shrill voice, who takes
pennies from the lepers, and says that he hasn’t
any food at home, and the Emperor therefore
sends along a little contribution in order that this
strange white man may be able to buy a bun.
Probably the ignorant Commissioners mistook the
spontaneous outpouring of a sympathetic nation
for a gigantic system of tip, and reported
to the Emperor . that it was advisable
to send the white jaw-jaw man some bucksheesh
—Chinamen are so miserably incapable of ap-
preciating the beauties of Australian institutions
that such a thing is not unlikely. Possibly they
got their ideas of the Aryan’s system of adminis-
tration from the weighing-machines at the railway
stations and explained that in Australia every
Government was built with a slit in it, and that
when a coin was dropped into this orifice the
figure would jump—it is difficult to say to what
lengths the Asiatic’s ignorance might carry him.
Perhaps poor Burns was included in the donation
because the Emperor was not certain whether he
or Parkes was the slit through which the money
had to be dropped. Anyhow, the Parkes Fund
ought to look up after this unexpected charity.
The hat has begun to circulate among the crowned
heads of the insolvent globe as well as among the
cabbage gardens of Botany, and this lends tone to
the proceedings. Even being kicked by an Em-
peror is worth something for advertising pur-
poses, and the receipt of a donation from an Em-
peror will give the Fund a greater hoist than if
Parkes had been kicked by all the monarchs of
two Continents.
-
Will the Hon. Francis Abigail consent to
enlighten a suspicious community with some
further information concerning his 60 per cent.
“ people’s bank 1 ” Some time ago, The Bulletin
told some plain truths concerning the methods of
this peculiar institution, and the Minister was
then represented by an inspired evening journal
—a fit tool for such a statesman —as being much
moved by our published revelations ; so much
moved, in fact, that he had commissioned Messrs.
Miles, Davenport, and Co. to inspect the con;
cern. It was further stated that their report
would be published, and if it was an unfavourable
one Abigail would resign his directorship.
Three months have passed since then ; but,
although the report is long overdue, it has not
been published, and Francis still hangs on to his
high-priesthood of the pawnshop as if it were his
only hope of salvation. The Bulletin, there-
fore, asks him to produce Miles, Davenport,
and Co.’s report, as nothing but afavourable certi-
ficate from some such firm could justify him in
continuing to direct a concern which the public,
upon apparently good grounds, believe to be an
instrument made for grinding the faces of Lie
poor. Should the ominent, rabbit statesman be too
busy to look after this matter, we direct a similar
appeal to Mr. Hurley, M.L.A., whose name also
ligureß conspicuously on tbc three-ball prospectus.
And, when these two gentlemen are falling over
their own feet in their frenzied haste to produce
the report in question, they might kindly vouch-
safe an explanation upon another point. The
Australian Banking Company was formerly ad-
vertised to possess a “Reserve” amounting to
£36,718 ; The Bulletin straightly informed the
public that there was no such reserve in existence,
whereupon the Company ceased to be advertised
in the daily press as the possessor of -any such
fund. From this we presume that the long silky
ears of Abigail and of Hurley Hop over in our
direction when The Bulletin utters the sorrow-
ful language of reproof. But, at the same time,
it would be gratifying to the general public if Mr.
Abigail would explain the circumstances
which led the Company to imagine that it
possessed the said £36,718. Or, supposing the
Company was aware all aloDg that it did not pos-
sess the money, how came it to assert that it did ?
And if it claimed, in this instance, to own a largo
sum which had no existence, many affluent citi-
zens would be glad to know if the other figures in
the balance-sheet were made up on the same
liberal principle. Or, supposing that the £36,718
in question ever was a reality, where has it gone
to, and is there any chance that tbe other assets
of the Bank may go to the same place ? The
public are waiting an answer to these queries,
and it is time for that promised certificate to
hurry up.
■*
The annual report of the Deaf and Dumb Institu-
tion at Darlinghurst, Sydney, shows that the
great art and mystery of grovel is not entirely
neglected at that establishment. In addition to
a lai’t. e stock of refreshing information on various
subjects, this volume contains a number of speci-
mens of composition in which “ the horse,” “ the
lion,” and other subjects are treated in a way
which would surprise these animals, and further
on we drop across a few biographical sketches
dealing with King Solomon, William Beach,
Benry the Second, and —O what a fall is there —
Henry Parkes. Concerning this Grand Old
Mistake one unhappy little boy is made to
write :
Sir Henby Parkes was bom in England, 27th May, 1815.
His parents were not veiy rich, hence his early education
was limited. When a young man, he became a writer for a
newspaper in Sydney. Previous to this he was in business,
but he liked books and literary work better than business.
He has helped to make good laws for New South Wales. He
compelled the publicans to close the hotels on Sundays. He
originated our Education Act. He can make fine speeches.
He is the cleverest statesman of Australia. He is a tall and
stout old gentleman. He is 72 years of age. He is our Pre-
mier. He is loyal to England, and very patriotic. He is not
rich, but v e hope the people will raise enough money to
gratify him and free his mind from anxiety. He would re-
fuse Government money, but we hope he will not refuse a
handsome gift from the people of New South Wales. Long
may he be spared !
It would be interesting to learn who stuffed this
miserable infant to make him tout for the Parkes
charity. Not loDg ago the blind were hauled out
of their refuge to raise half-crowns for the Queen’s
Fund, and now the deaf and dumb are called into
service to raise the wind for the Object of Hair.
Strangely enough, however, Parkes and Beach
are pretty nearly the only individuals who get
pleasant biographies. Thomas A’ Beckett, for
instance, is polished off thus :
“ Thomas A Beckett was a learned and artful man who
pretended to be religious. Henry 11. pretended to be sorry
at the death of A’Beckett ”
We would like to know what would have been
tbe fate of the boy who wrote anything like that
about Parkes? Would he have got his head
punched, or what ?
The present New South Wales Government,
judging from its Centennial projects, is a pain-
lully animal combination, and, true to its instincts,
it has planned out a purely cart-horse show to
celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the
colony. There is a liberal vote to provide for a
tremendous feed for those who are already
apoplectic and overfed, but there is no prize for a
historic painting to commemorate the occasion.
There is a Centennial hog exhibition on the pro-
gramme, but no Centennial poem, and the old re-
gatta business is down on the list, but the idea of
founding a University scholarship, so that the
rising generation may not have to go down on all
fours to look for their dropped “ h’s" as their
parents have to do, does not appear to have oc-
curred to anybody concerned. Parkes, himself,
when in England, used to follow Tennyson and
other literary men round like a huge Newfound-
land dog, but fince then his love of literature
seems to have died away. Perhaps Tennyson
sat on him.
+
Nothing is too illogical and absurd for the Tory
Ministers to say, and the Tory and Unionist
people to swallow, in the justification of coercion.
Lord Salisbury, in his last “ great ” harangue,
declared to applause and cheers :
“Let the minority be heard—let them be heard abun-
dantly—let them be heard to whatever extent is neoeasary
to place their opinions thoroughly before the people of this
country; but when mincrities have been beard, let the
majority decide.’'
Well, dropping the question of the majority in
England, and whether the “ masses ” don’t wholly
outnumber the coorcionist “classes,” not even the
most GOD-forsakcn numskull who is proud to call
himself a Conservative ever denied which way the
majority went in Ireland. Toryism confutes
itself, but is too stupid to see it.
When tbe New South Wales Naval Forces BUI
becomes law, and a cracked and gouty fleet is
hovering round tbe coaßt of New South Wales,
there is every prospect of a considerable fab in
the value of water frontage allotments. Tie
pitent self-bursting gursof the navy, by virtue
of which Britannia’s march is o’er tbe mountain
waves and her home upon the deep, are death
upon waterside villas, and are liable, at any
moment, to blow the head off the unofferd'ng
si ranger who loafs upon the wave beat shore.
For instance, ore pleaeant day last summer tbe
wart hip Ajax was lying off the quiet little
Scottish town of Inellau. It was a calm, shill
afternoon; the blae waters were glassy in their
smoothness ; a single, solitary crab walked side-
ways on the sandy beach, and no one dreamt of
approaching evil. Then, suddenly, tbe Aj>x
threw two shells into the infant school, where tbe
rising generation were wrestling with the four
rules of arithmetic, and nearly tore a pretty girl-
teacher into shivers, and a moment later a whole
broadside was sent into a row of villas on the shore.
The childrf n fled, the local policeman became
afflicted with scarceness, the bailie lighted out
for the hills, and the minister went out to re-
mons'rate under the impression that Inellan
had somehow incurred the wrath of the Crown,
and that he must bear the olive-branch of peace.
The First Barnacle of the Admiralty, however,
explained the matter in Parliament ; something
had happened to the “electric circuit,” and the
guns had gone off when nobody was looking.
Pr-bably some day a shell will explode between
Parkes’ legs from the same comprehensive cause
and the Post office tower will be thrown in the
street, and then New South Wales will either
have to pay the self-bursting fleet to go away, or
Sydney will havo to be removed bodily Into the
backwoods for security.
John Cathie, of Ballarat (Vie.), was the
first undertaker who sat in an Australian Parlia-
ment. When Parliament opened, Cathie put on
his professional black clothes and took his seat
in what he called the 'Ouse. During the first
pause in the proceedings, he elevated himself and
exoitedly blurted out that “it would be a
very good thing far the country if the mem-
bers and supporters of the Government were all
dead.” Then up rose Aspinall, with one of hia
cynical smiles, and retorted, “Good thing for
you, you mean; you might get the job of burying
them.” And then Cathie fell back with the sigh
of a man who had jußto been rapped over the head
with the shin bone of a pirate’s corpse.


Dr Canny, lata Surge* n Royal Artillery and HM. 11th
Regiment, L R.O.P. LM,M R C S , Kngland. Registered
inOreat Britain and N.M.IV 61 Wentworth Court Cham
£r.'L E rHl a J! et &?i raet (s l! oUn 4 flo ,? r >- Spoialiet in Diseased
of the Liver Kidueye, &o. Dr. Canny's long service in the
Tropics, Ac has afforded him special experience in tbs
treatment the above mentioned diseases *
HISTORY Of BOTANY BAY,
In coming to Australia, therefore, it will
be seen, as the philanthropic Mr. Eden prophesied,
that “ the devoted convict was not seated for life
on a bed of roses.” Enough has been said to show
that of all the vile spots on the earth, Botany
Bay was the vilest —always with a reservation in
favour of Norfolk Island and Van Dleman's Land,
which will receive attention in their proper places.
The consequence was that the convict was dis-
s itisfled with the maternal provision the mother-
country had made in his regard, and was even
known, on repeated occasions, to endeavour to
make his escape.
* * *
Nothing can be more miserable than the
records of these attempts. They took various
forms—sometimes attempted mutiny, sometimes
flight by sea, and someimes flight by land. In
the very first year of colonisation, an attempt) of
the last-mentioned kind was made. The despera e
convicts had heard from the blacks a wild tala to
which thair own hopes gave the colouring. Soma
500 miles to the south-west, they gathered, there
was a city of white men. A plan was
formed to brook away from the settlement, and
iourney on until this storied city was
reached. It was a kind of convicts’ Hy-
Brasil—that fabulous island on the waters that
appeared for a moment to the eye 3 of old-time
visionaries, and “flamed, and flashed, and passed
away." The convicts’ hope was just as illusory.
Sixteen of them were captured and brought to
Sydney, and under the influence of a merciless
flogging, the wild hope seems to have evaporated
for a time. Four convicts were allowed to go
with four soldiers to see if there was any truth In
the report of the white men’s city. In ten days
three returned, and the fourth 23 days later. He
brought nothing back except a bird of Paradise,
and, strange to say, we have no record of this
man being flogged. Bat it showed the dreamers
that their hope was a vain one, and it left them
to their despair. The settlement was a prison as
strongly secure as though id were girdled by
strong Btoue walls and iron bars. As he entered
the Heads, the convict might read the fa*al sen-
tence that Dante read over the gates of Hell,
“All ye who enter here, abandon hope !”
* * *
Thera is a story of a convict fisherman
named Bryant which is as romantic as Robinson
Crusoe, and dramatic as Monte Cristo. He
was engaged in fishing for the supply of the settle-
ment, and while so engaged the desperate hope
came to him to make his escape in his fishing-boat
and bo return to England with his wife and two
children. It is touching to read these instances
of a kindly domestic feeling amonget the
cruelly-outraged victims of those social laws
which lead to ignorance as well as to crime. He
spoke to the master of a Dutch vessel, which
brought provisions to the colony from Batavia.
The honest Dutchman seems to have sympathised
with the poor fellow’s natural desire for liberty.
He gave him a compass, quadrant, and chart,
and Buch information as he could. Bryant men-
tioned his project to seven o hers, and when alt
was ready they put some provisions with Bryant’s
wife and children into the boat, and so set sail.
They suffered horribly on the voyage, but still
they kept bravely on in their little craft. Oae
man was drowned in the Straits of Sanda, but
the rest actually succeeded in reaching Timor,
and then Batavia But, alas for the vanity of
these poor wretches’ hopes ! Bryant and one of
his children, with two of the convicts, died here
after all their parils passed, but at least they ob-
tained their liberty. Not so the others. The
Ditch Government at Batavia arrested them, and
afterwards handed them over to H.M S, Pandora.
No touch of nature shows through the whole of
this melancholy lousiness, except what wa find in
the conduct of these convict waifs. Tae Pandora
took them round the Cape to England, where they
were tried and committed to Newgate, until the
term of their original sentences had expired.
The convict period has many weird stories, but no
more like this.
# « *
Then the convicts became posse sei with
the idea that they would reach China by travel-
ling overland. Successive parties made their
escape, and set out with that intention. Four
convicts were found in the bush near Port Ste-
phens in 1795 ; they mafe their escape from
Parramatta five years before. In 1791, 20 male
and female convicts started to walk to t hlna.
Some of them died in the bush, and others ware
brought back in the last stages of starvation.
Fiji was flrso colonised by escaped prisoners, who
copied, as far as possible the e, the barbarism
their gaolers had taught them at Botany Bay.
Tae fi st meatiot o! gold in Australia was made
by an escaped prisoner. He asked for the free-
dom of himself and a femal i prisoner as his re-
ward for the discover/. Two soldiers ware sent
with him to sea the spot, and he took the oppor-
tunity to make his escape. His gaolers ware very
much disappointed at his infidelity to his engage
ment, and when they caught him they expostu-
lated with him severely—with a “ oat.” This
Improved his moral perceptions, and he again
volunteered to enrich his torturers. Their greed
led them into the cunning trap again, but they
soon caught this farceur, and he confessed that
the gold he showel in the first instance was made
out of two gold rings and a brass button. This
quite disgusted the officials. They flogged him
again, and so we hear no more of him. Yet some
day he will get a statue, too.
t # •
The daily “ muster ” was es ablished to
keep a cheok on the convicts who were so fond of
running away. Different districts had different
tlmas for master, but the persons for whoso bene-
fit this thoughtful institution w sfc devised took such
astute advantage of that circum stance, that a uni-
form hour was appoint'd, and an order issued, in
1801, which said : Any pert on not appearing at
the General Musters will be taken up r s vagrants
(sic) and punished to the utmost rigour of the
law, it free ; and if a prisoner, will be sent meed
to one month’s omflnement in the But ry
Gang.” In 18i6 an esoap.ng convict, wao was
hard pressed, reported him elf to a constable as
absent without leave. Tnis active and intelligent
officer gave him a good dinner, and then went on
to t»ke him before a magistrate. But the other
man he Id other vie ws. His benefactor's beet had
demoralised him. He therefore lifted that good
man up in his arms and threw him into the river.
Then he ran rapidly away.
* • *
Many an anxious eye turned with Bicken-
-1 ng hope to that far away Une of dim blue hills,
seen in the distance from Sydney, in those early
days. An idea gained ground that a nation of
white men dwelt beyond, and not ail the stories of
Prestar John together exercised auoh a fatal fas-
oination as this alluring fable. The Governor said
this notion was “ unfounded, wioked as it is false,
and calculated to bring the believers of it to de-
struction,” So it did. He is always a
good prophet who can secure the fulfil-
ment of his own prophesy. A good many
died in making the attempt to pass the mountains,
and a good many were flogged within an inch of
the same result when they were caught. A con-
vict explorer, named Wilson, says he saw the
skeletons of 50 runaway prisoners on the road to
the Blue Mountains. In 1802 a case is mentioned
of some escapees who had got to the Nepean
River, others to the coast, while the rest of the
party “ had wandered about near the place they
had left, after being absent about ten days, most
of them nearly starved, and living on grass for
five days oat of the ten.” Another party was
subsequently sent out to see if the Chinese really
were located within measurable distance to the
northward. A vaguely described “ copper-
coloured people” were also searched for. A boat’s
crewaccidentally pickedup these explorers in aspot
where they had been for nine days, and “ where
they must soon have perished but for this miraou-
loas event. They were brought back almost ex-
hausted for want of food.”
* * *
Qaite frequently attempts were made to
seize ships or boats. In 1797 the “ Cumberland ”
was seized by convicts, a id the Venus, belonging
to Robert Campbell in 1799, and again, or one of
the same name, in 1806. In 1808 the Harrington
was taken out of the harbour by convicts, but
H. M. S. Phoenix captured her in the Indian Beas.
However, they got another chance, as she
was wrecked soon after on the Laconian
coast, and all the convicts escaped or perished.
The Unity was captured in 1813, and the Trial in
1816. The latter was wrecked, and her escapees
drowned or killed by the natives. The William
Cee3ar was taken in 1817, and the Isabella in 1823.
This last has never been heard of since. As late
as 1853, 22 convicts on their way from Van Die-
man’s Land to Norfolk Island, seized the Lady
Franklin, kept the vessel for 11 days, and then
loaded the boats with provisions, and left. The
murderer Kuatchbull was the h°ro of such an
attompt in 1832, but it did not succeed, and Mr.
Kuatchbull lived to serve out his sentencs on
Norfolk Island and oome back to Sydney and
be hanged. Bass, in his journal—to return
to the period of this part of our story—
found seven poor wretches marooned on one
of those forbidding rooks in Bass’s Strait.
They had been away eight months, and seven
others who had escaped with them had treacher-
ously left them here to parish. They wanted to
travel northward “ to throw themselves on his
Majesty’s mercy.” They forgot that the gentle-
men who represented his Majesty had no
marcy. Bass could not take them away, as his
boat was too small, but he gave them a musket
and some ammunition, a compass, and soma fish-
ing-lines, Two were ill, and these he took into
his boat. The rest he landed on the mainland,
and they started on thair long walk baok to Botany
Bay. “ When they parted with Mr. Bas 3 and his
crew who gave them what clothes they could
spare,” says the story, “some tears were shed on
both sidas.” An honest touch of nature, this.
• *
Although it does not proparly belong to
this part of our story, this Is, for many reasons, a
fibbing place to do justice to the memory of one of
the few men who ever showed a human sympathy
with these forlorn oonvict wretches. When tjie
reader is Bickened by the rapacity and oruelby of
the New South Wales Corps, and tha gaolers of
the penal settlement generally, he may turn for
refreshment to the name of Colonel Collins. “His
conduct was exemplary, and his disposition most
humane. His treatment of the runaway convicts
was conciliatory, and even kind. He would go
into the forests, among the natives, to allow these
poor oreaturv.3, the runaways, an opportunity o f
returning to their former condition And, half-
dead with cold and hunger, they wjuld come and
drop on tbelr kaess before him. imploring pardon
for their behwiour.” He would give them food
and clothing, and send them baok to their work.
At this time Colonel Collins was Governor of Van
Dieman’s Land. But he died.
The town of L’verpool (N.S.W.) is going to cen-
tsnniate in a fashion that is painful in its origin-
ality. Mr. Charles Bull is to deliver an
oration, and this being completed—
Britannia will than ascend the throne—New South Wales
on her right hand, Governor Phillip on her left-hand—
with Captain Cook and King Tommy. Britannia will then
ask Captain Cook to report his discoveries, and afterwards
appoint Captain Phillip, R.N., first Governor of the
colony.
After giving Phillip a billet to bos3 the lags, the
entire caboodle sing “ Rule Britannia,” and the
chief effigy confers the honour of Knighthood on
ten boys of the district. Thus are th»y taught in
their green and tender youth to squirm and grovel
to a foreign power, 16,00(1 miles away, for sham
tinsel distinctions, and then we wonder why we
are not a nation with a frigid back-bone and a
stiff upper lip. Pass the centennial whisky and
let us do a genuine colonial salaam !
Bishop Moorhouse elevates his vocal organ in
the howling wastes of Manchester to state that
“ the best way of ma’iiog the distribution of
money more beneficent would be to give to all
men a greater share in the possession of land and
capital.” This sentence is one with which we
believe everyone will agree, and we move that
the Bishop should at once bring in a Bill to that
effect. If he can give a lot more land and a 100
more money to everybody , without taking any-
thing from anybody, he will give this world a lift
for which it will be grateful. But where the
fatted Bishop is to get the land and the money
from is not fully explained. At present there is
not enough unclaimed soil on the face of the earth
for an Anarchist’s dog to sib down upon, and the
unclaimed money all goes to the Queen or some-
body. Consequently, when Moorhouse starts to
enrich “ all men” with gold and territory we are
a'raid he will be reduced to giving the globe his
bill at three months. Somehow, the ( huroh
doesn’t seem to be of much use in an emergency.
Up a little gaily neir Weriigton (N’.Z.)
dwill some swee things in calico who intend, for
the future, to sweep the floor of the habitable
globe with every yal er agony that yanks the
leprous carrot in that direction. Io seems that
one of the heavenly horde invented a wonderfu-
patent double barrelled pencil, with which he
long euchred the dwellers in the valley by
double-banking the internal hieroglyphics which
made up his weekly accounts, but the sirens
spotted the plant a h last, and laid fer that artist
and c wight him. Thirteen of the deceived aud
swindled housewives took h m up gently, and but
for the untimely arrival of the police—who are
generally around when a lady has something to do
—would have dropped him into the creek. There’s
a fine opening up that way for a white man to
start hawking round green feed.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Horsebreaker : If you could have put a few
airy lies into that bush missionary incident, it might have
become interesting, hut you seem to adhere too closely to
the realm of melancholy fact... .Incogniti: We are sorry to
hear that you are tired of the sight of the great African
Desert of Parkes’ countenance in The Bulletin. When
that apostle of good government is ejected from the N.S.W.
Parliament and compelled—in the language of the gutter—
to “ dry up ” in politics, we will give him an eternal rest....
Ecce Homo (Narrandera): (1) The rumour you mention
started, we believe, in one of the Government offices in
Sydney. Only another empty weapon. (2) “ England must
win because Bhe has the money,” is an old story. Croesus
had the money, too, but Cyrus, who hadn’t a cent, won and
took the lot. Old Blucher sized up the wealth of London 70
years ago. “Mein Gott, what a city to plunder !” was what
he said... .T.H.W. (Albury): Is it this verse in Langfoid’s
volume of soft slush which rousea you to such fury ?
“ Pew cities in the ancient world
Can more attractive suburbs boast
Than Melbourne, still in infancy,
B ,th inland or along her coast;
Where many pleasant days we passed,
Whose memory will ever last."
Well, we have seen a paper-hanger’s “ ad." which contained
more genuine poetry, but it would be too rough to publish
your reply, all the same. Too much like hitting a man who
is already flat....P. Johnston: Verses very good in spots,
but too mysterious altogether. The unlettered public
wouldn’t know what you werp driving at... .Trombone : We
don’t wish to cast doubts on the originality of the yarn, but
the same story has happened once or twice before in various
parts of the habitable g10be.... AB. (Rockhampton): Po-
litical screed as heavy as lead. The subject is one which
wants to be treated with light and airy profanity to do it
justice. ...O.V.C. : Your ideas of rhyme are less coherent
than a hog’s views upon Sunday S.F.T. (Goulburn): We
cannot make head or tail or middle of your paralytic note.
~. The Finder of This (Sydney): If, as you say, you found
the poem about the Sunday-school teacher, you made a poor
haul. Don’t find any more like it. ...Subscriber (Campaina,
Tas.): Your hypocrite is an animal of purely local interest,
and, anyhow, what is one hypocrite among so many?....
Croydon Creek (Q.): Only the bilious ass of a compositor
again. Nothing more....Fossicker (Croydon, Q): Thanks
for item from your religious locality in the Far North
Beatrice Laura (Sydney): We like stuffed-dog poetry, but
not such as this
Can think I hear the senseless clay
Of unreproachful words to say
Up raise my farm without delay
Not know your pet did die.
To wake me thou canst never do,
Ever faithful kind and true :
Since thirteen years I lived for you
To nobly let me die.
The dog could have written better stuff than that with his
tail Cerberus (Albury): Your last “Reflections "don't
come within miles of your p-evions contributions, and the
subject is so sultry that it would scare all the bishops off our
subscription-list... .F.A. (Sydney): The plans and elevations
of the new scheme for chasing a rabbit 40 miles until you
get it into an enclosure, and then tearing round after it till
it is killed, are hereby acknowledged with thanks.. F.M.
(Auburn): Metre as disordered as a dog on three legs. Listen
to this and then perish :
The fire crackled on the tidy hearth,
Its flare lit up the gloom ;
His baby brother crowed in infant mirth,
And crawled about the room.
Shade of the departed Pompey, what do you call that ?
W.W.H. (Wagga): The Bulletin does not profess to sup-
port Henry George's theories all through. For instance,
George lays down the axiom that if Freetrade is good in one
case it is good in all, to which we are inclined to reply that
if three years gaol and two floggings suit one man they
don’t necessarily suit all the rest of humanity
Land Nationalisation and Protection are part of
the same cause. Freetrade is making Austra-
lia more and more dependant on Britain, and is swamping the
colonies with British landlords, and with mercantile houses
which are merely branch agencies of London firms, until
there is a prospect that in the near future foreign interests
will become sufficiently powerful to block the road of pro
grass. Protection helps to make a country self-dependant,
and we therefore regard it as a step towards Land Nationali-
sation. If you think this estimate of British influence over-
rated, look at Egypt, which is now run in the interests of the
speculators of London, and ask yourself what show a land
reformer working in the interests of the Egyptian peasantry
would have n0w....A Borrower of The Bulletin: We
aren’t any good at conundrums, and our columns are closed
for ever against jokes about licking the new twopenny
stamps....Sylvanus (Ballina): Thanks for screed re Wales’
vanished hair.... Mac. (Dunedin): The present writer has
had the pleasure of personally knowing Mr. Fish of old As
to the subject you mention, an article treating it was ia type
when your letter came tu hand Thanks for your good-
wishes. .. .Cockney (Sydney): It is hard to advise you. The
ways of the publishers are past finding out. You have a
batter show with prose than verse, anyhow. Try the frater-
nity one by one. They may publish for you without any
prepayment; it all depends On the merits of the work....
Albanich (Rye Park): Many thanks for good wishes. We
get most of the papers you mention, however....Rienzi:
Will fix our eye on your article next week....HAW.
(Sydney): Letter re Centenary would have been acceptable
if it had only arrived a week earlier. Your sentiments are
ours. Bust this great anniversary of “The Day We Were
Lagged." F. Stephen :We know of no English translation
of Karl Marx's work. Read Lawrence GroDlund’a " Co-
operative Commonwealth," which will supply you with all
the information you require. (2 ) Land Nationalisation is
a dream which will one day be realised all the world over.
Protection is a step towards it, despite the howl of scorn
with] which the Freetrader greets the assertion. So is
Trades Unionism.
George Brown, of Omaha Flats (N.Z.),
organised an elaborate snioide a few days ago.
He piled up a heap of combustibles round his hut
and set them on fire, and then sat down on a
quantity of dynamite inside and exploded himself.
Part of Brown oame flying out, and nearly hit a
passer-by on the head, but his legs have not been
found, and it is supposed that they were scattered
into the next province and eaten by a wild hog.
Sands’ Sydney Directory for 1888 is now
published, and is, if possible, a little better than
the issues whioh preoeded it. It contains every
kind of information that any oivilieed Aryan
householder could a9k for, and, despite the gene-
rally acknowledged fact that a directory can
hardly keep up to the standard of a three-volume
novel for thrilling interest, we regard this publi-
cation as much more entertaining than many cur-
rent works of fiction. If it were dramatised by
an able pen ib would undoubtedly be 'superior to
more than one play whioh now ooonpies bhe boards
in Sydney.
The Referee
“We see Jack Burke is paying a flying
visit to the colonies. We wonder how long ib
will be before he arranges a draw ?” Sa said an
American paper, and Burke’s actions this side of
the line go far to show that the writer of the
quoted par. was nob far out when he at tributed
to Burke more of the showman than the fighter.
From the long-tailed-bauger and tall glossy hat in
whioh he jumped ashore, to the desperate shark
adventure he met with a couple of days before
the fight, all was “ad.” ; then he turned dog on
his forefathers, and declared himself an Ameri-
can ; and when Peter Jackson was trotted out to
him he didn’t like the look of the sable giant, and
declared it was infra, dig. for an American boxer
—which, by the way, he is not— to meet a coloured
man, a piece of bunkum in the face of the facb
.that Yankee Kilrain, who recently fought Eng-
lishman Smith for the championship of the world,
fought a desperate battle quite recently with one
Godfrey, an American black. It was then that
Larry Foley, who years ago had retired from active
service in the ring, stepped into the breach and
consented to meet the Englishman rather than
give him the further “ad.” of saying that a white
man could not be found to cope with him in New
South Wales. Larry immediately set to work
and wrestled manfully with the adipose tissue
which encumbered him, and when he stepped
into the ring at the Carington Grounds on Mon-
day last he faced Surke with a broad grin and a
much narrowed bingey. The fight was nob worth
description. Foley, if anything, had the best of
the first two rounds, but in the third Burke took
the lead, and at the termination Larry was a bit
weak. Foley was all right when the fifth was
called on, and from that out not a blow worthy of
the name was struck till time was played out
and the men shook hands. Burke’s show with
an old man who, years ago, retired from the
ring was of the poorest kind, and if the per-
formance can be taken as any criterion of Yankee
and British form, in the writer’s opinion Peter
Jackson could Bweep the world, Sullivan included.
Anyway, our sable champion is the only man in
Australia Burke can hope to build up his very
much shattered boxing reputation with, and if he
now refuses to meet Jackson, h's chance of again
drawing a big gate on his John L. Sullivan repu-
tation has flown, and his occupation as a boxer is
gone in Australia. Ten years ago La*ry Foley
would have knocked him out in a couple of
rounds.
* * *
“ Professor ” We t made rather a mistake
in tackling Mick Dooley at Foley’s, on Saturday
night. Mick, to all intents and purposes, knocked
the Professor out in a round, bub he was allowed,
on sufferance, to come out for a second, when
Dooley humanely declined to strike the beaten
man, and induced his friends to take him away.
It is of use any but first-class men tackling
Dooley. * Amongst the Sydney boxers Dooley plays
Progress to Peter Jackson’s Grand Flaneur. In
the absence of Jackson, Dooley rules the roaßt.
* * *
The name of De Mestre was not men-
tioned at the Roeehill opening, notwithstanding
his intimate connexion with the Australian turf.
During his long career on the emerald the breath
of scandal never reached him, and he lost a for-
tune in breeding, notwithstanding the excellence
of the thoroughbred stock which passed through
his hands.
Thrice has Beach put llanlan through his
facings, and yet the Yankees are nob satisfied.
The Americans put down Hanlan’s lasb de'eat to
that carbuncle on his wrist.
* * *
The roasting Garrett received from the
Press has put new life into him. Unless some of
our so-called leading players show an improve-
ment upon their recent play, a similar course of
treatment might prove beneficial to them also.
*
The English Rugby Union is opposed to
Lillywhite’s football team visiting Australia, on
the ground that compensation means professional-
ism. It would be interesting to obtain the opinion
of the Union on the “gentlemen” cricketers at
present doing Australia.
* * *
Twelve Maoris beat an equal number of
played-out Caucasians in a tug-of-war at Kawa-
kawa (N,Z.) lately.
* * •
Harry Laing, the champion pugilist of
N Z„ is a half-caste ; so is Joe Warbrick, her best
footballer, and Albert White, her ex champion
oarsman. The half bred Maori can whip creation
in athletics, and he has brains into the bargain.
* * *
Dick Mathews, the Yankee boxer who has
ruled the roast in boxing matters in New Zealand
for such a lengthy period, has at last gone under.
* * •
L. L. Smith, the mercurial Melbourne
doctor, will dispose of his raoing stud on the 30 hb,
and devote all his attention to the young men
who don’t feel well.
* * *
When the Burke-Foley show was over
last Monday, probably the worst disgusted man
in Australia was Larry himself. He cast one
withering glance on the alleged boxer who was to
have made cabsmeat of him in one act, and said
scornfully, “Why don’t he come down to my
place any morning, before breakfast, and I’ll fight
him for love with naked fiscs? ’ Meanwhile Black
Jackson was howling' at the top of his voice for a
matoh with any white trash from any part of the
globe, bnt Burke apparently did not hear him.


JAVS P&lNCffi OF WALE’d HOTEL,
ST. RILDA.
THIS first class Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors and residents, being in a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the St. Hilda Railway Station. Private suites
of apartments. Ladies’ drawing room. Gentlemen’s
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
JOURNALIST, at present connected with
Sydney paper, desires Intercolonial or
country correspondence. Light matter; topical
Verse; Election Squibs; Paragraphs; Parlia-
mentary Notes; Leaders Supplied.
“ VALENTINE,"
47 Cove-street,
Balmain,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
._ T?nvATi — 11 Robinson Crusoe *■ n nnnn«»iD< 14.
n H f™MONTHEATRt-" Little Jack Sheppard”.. „ ~ ••
2t BITE ma TF Siy s Thkatbbln The Ranks "
Moil ”- All star Novelty Combination
Music Hall— Sacred Concert .........
AlhambSa music Hall— Minstrelsy »
Hiscock’s Federal Minstrels have started
nn o’* new career at Sydney Academy. The
nnmbinat oa includes a good number of the pre-
cis niggers, but here and there we come upon a
fresh Ethiopian, and some of these fr*sh Ethio-
pians are calculated to make a man break the
Sabbath and barg the pieces about with a club.
especially, whom we decline to distinguish by
ST,«» like to lead away soMy by the
t rails and take him to such a distance that
StcnStft be likely ever to Hod bit. way back-
?° f . ct we would desire to paint the town red
his head. Horace Bent, however, is in
Treat for“, and after listening for an
bmir or so to his comicalities, we would
bare gladly asked him home to tea, but
* fortunately, it was washing-day. Charles
Eanning tVe cher bones, has some hideous
iokes which are not fit to be eaten by
1 hog but Sam Keenan, Harry Car-
roll and Beaumont Read are a trio whom we
wouldn’t swop for a hotel. Alt. Mojnham plays
well by fits and starts, but, unluckily, on Satur-
day his fit seemed to be over, and bis start hadn t
commenced; and, with regard to the rest, at least
one of them has a voice which can be unhesitat-
ingly described as superior to that of an alligator,
even when that songbird is doing his best in his
secluded home amid the slush. The ‘‘Untamed
Wage was good, and “ Law v. Leather was
drearier that a flat-iron. The little Academy was
crowded, and our biliary ducts were nearly stove
in during our struggles to esoaps.
## # *
Sundry other shows are meditatively
hounding along in their washed-out orbits. Most
S,T» old, however fat It ta't worth
■while putting on one’s beßt clothes to go and see
them-—an old coat with a cow painted on the
hinder part is good enough. The Bondi Aquarium
fsioiSg to oentenniate with a bicycle exhibition
and a rope-walking performance by the Aus-
tralian Blondin, also a yaoht race, corroboree of
80 blackfellows of both sexes, shooting gallery,
skating rink, promenade concert, and a quantity
of sharks and other beasts floating around in
iuice. A picnic to archbishops, bishops,
and other select Christians comes off on the
25th inst., and the Coogee and Manly Aquariums
will also make a great display in honour of the
anniversary. Also Hayes Circus with Signor
Agrati as manager is announced to appear at
Belmore Park. Eighteen brass bands are to hold
forth at the Carington Grounds from the 26th to
the 30th January, and unless some one kuls ott
the 400 performers they will probably be mean
enough to do it. The remainder of tne Sydney
shows are as old as a ballet-girl, but a great re-
surreolion is looked for after the Centenary.
** * *
“Firs f . Class,” at Adelaide Royal, has
been drawing like a bullock-team, and, on its
withdrawal, the old “Octorcon will come on,
with the seedy agony of ‘ ‘ East Lynne to follow.
Some day, perhaps, somebody will go out with an
axe and perpetrate a deed of blood upon this fear-
ful play, and give Lady Isabel to an alligator, but
we have waited long for this blessed consumma-
tion, and still a shameless race of unctuous
bounders continue to shove the old ark of this
tragedy along, and tell ns over and over again
about the long-haired flat of a female who left her
husband to flee with a parody on the human race
with a long bell-topper balanced on one side of his
«kull. It is just possible, however, that East
Lynne ” may be played once too often, and then
a listening world will hear something drop.
At Garner’s Theatre, Prince Bnngero and Khan
Itchi are prospering, and the dollars continue to
■amass. They may not be a very intellectual pair,
but, at least, they don't play “ East Lynne.
** * *
Some years after Parkes went bung for
the second time, a red-headed crank who lived in
a little village on the Darling wrote a drama in
about 11 acts. He put this thiDg away in a
candle-box and it remained there for some time
without doing any harm, but the other day it
•came to light. A mouldy theatrical company was
living on husks in the back-blocks, and while the
manager was roaming at large, he and the author
concussed against each other and planned a, fell
■design against the unoffending public. They
■reduced the drama to seven acts, and produced it
n all its conglomerated horror to an audience of
17. As the manager himself observed to the
leading gentleman who hadn’t any socks, You
need to pile the hagony up ’igh to fetch the
awjence,” and the leading gentleman concurred
and the agony was piled. There was a murder in
the first act, also a trial and a gallows, a duel,
■and a woman rnshing all over the drama with her
■hair down and a marriage certificate concealed in
her stocking, and an incriminating letter hidden
■down her back. In the next act there was a fero-
cious dog and abody-snatcher without any legs, and
the third showed a ghost, a beautiful girl tied to a
tree, a railway accident, a public-house fight, and a
whale. Act four contained an innocent child with a
■stutter ; he was seized by the police and £ll,OOO
in gold was found hidden in his boots. The com-
pany had been steadily growing drunk all this
while, however, and it was found impossible to
produce any more acts because the leading man
was asleep in his dressing-room, and the principal
juvenile was struggling with the .howling cham-
bermaid for the possession cf a bottle The author
went round and raved at them, but they dropped
‘him down a trap and it took him two hours to find
■his way out. When he got clear at last he mounted
his horse and lighted out for his home beside the
■creak with the oead calf in it, and there is now
•one dramatist *he less in a per. ecuied land. Quits
•a number of authors are still going about loose
who were obviously built to chase the artful hog
from his lair, but there is joy in Heaven when
■even one of the fraternity discovers his own defi-
ciencies and goes back to his childhood’s haunts to
scare the native bear.
** * *
The only Melbourne novelty, “ Missing at
Lloyd’s," contains as much shipwreck and broad
expanse of ocean as can be accommodated on the
Opera House stage. Same times the waves gently
break upon a shingly shore with mechanical
monotony, and at other times they are lashed into
fury by unßeen agencies at the wings, but in
either case the wild waste of waters suggests
careful management and a liberal expenditure of
ready money. The drama itself Is a loose-jointed,
sprawling piece of work ; the company unfold
their plot with undue pomposity and cir-
cumstance, but, nevertheless, an odour of
brine from the ooean is wafted over
the footlights with pleasing results. All the
trouble is oaused through three men being mashed
on one pale, unsubstantial female in a limp frock.
The first favourite among these sighing suitors j
appears to be a virtuous sea captain (there are
such individuals —in dramas), so the despised oul-
siders compass his destruction, the one by sendir g
him to America in an aged ship, and the other by
punching holes in itß hull Sundry tableaux In-
form the Bpell bound audience that the capta n
and his other girl float about on something
until a brig picks them up, and a long,
lean, last act is composed of hornpipes
and retribution. The captain realises that
his other girl has a truer heart than the
vague shadow in a limp frock, while the villains
are either killed or handcuffed by the re-
morseless law. Of the acting in “ Missing at
Lloyd’s ” it would be dangerous to speak in terms
of undiluted praise. A dread of something
coming after death compels us to say that Miss
Helen Vivian has swallowed Carrie Swain with-
out quite digesting that charmer’s peculiar
method, also that the limp-frooked morsel
of unsubstantial insincerity requires nerv-
ing up. Port wine, sal-volatile, and lav-
ender-water mixed would make quite another
gal of her. Messrs. W. G. Carey, Keogh,
Power, and Bateman are well up to their work,
and Miss Beatrice Lyster puts intelligent agility
into a soubrette part. A gentleman named Jordan
plays the masher villain in a style of his own, but
the brightest side of Jordan, unhappily, can never
be seen in this life. Taking it altogether, the
chances are that “ Missing at Lloyd’s” would flu
the Opera House moderately for another fortnight
if Mr. T. A. Kennedy hadn’t engaged the theatre
for a display of mesmerism commencing on Satur-
day. Why this should be is be3t understood of
the proprietors.
** # #
I Other new shows will be set up shortly.
I Nellie Stewart appears at the Princess’s on Satur-
day, in the sweet personality of Dorothy, and on
I the following Monday the seraphic Essie Jenyns
will (D.V.) do Juliet at the Bijou. A disquieting
rumour that Mr. Holloway will not Rmeo is
spreading through the anxious city, but everyone
hopes for the best. Meantime the Royal Panto-
mime retains powers of attraction, and Miss
Coventry’s dancing brings beads of perspiration
a pon many a bald, old head.
*# # *
An American masher got Into Minnie
Palmer’s dressing-room the other day, and at-
tempts to describe what he saw there before he
was bounced :
The sprightly soubrette was on the stage, and I had plenty
nf time to look round. It was a white candy-box of a room.
I found myself reflected in two mirrors. Under a flaring gas-
jet sat a prim maid and a big policeman The maid sewed,
and the policeman kept his naked eye fixed on a casket of
precious jewels. Here and there I noticed open trunks, and
?n one of them I spied, nestling amid embroideries, silk
stockings, and snowy underclothing, an infinitesimal terrier.
I cannot Win to describe the dresses, hats, cloaks, fichu’,
which hung on the wall, nor enumerate the poffs, .s*™,
brushes, bonbonniferes that lay scattered under the mirror.
I can tell you, however, that when a burst of applause from
the house bad subsided, and Minnie Palmer rushed into the
dressingrWn.bowed, smiled, tossed off a glass of cham-
pagne, and commenced “ changing, I made my exit, and
shut the door after me.
The policeman seems to be put in here as a mute
guarantee that the diamonds are genuine. Even
John Rogers would hardly attempt such an alti-
tudinous bluff as that of hiring a monstrous
“ slop ” to keep his bleary eye on eighteenpen-
north of cut glass.
## # #
Miss Connie Gilchrist is coming to Aus-
tralia with Nellie Farren and Co. Connie accord-
ing to legend, was orginally a barmaid, but she
took to the boards, and a duke got maßhed on her
and followed her about till she became famous.
There aren’t any dukes in Australia. Mrs. Ber-
nard Beere has invented a new mode of dying on
the stage. She takes poison and bounds from a
table to a sideboard, from that to a straight-
backed chair, then rushes against a sofa and
drives her spine hard on to the baok of it, and
finally totters from the sofa to the centre
of the stage, where Bhe passes away. In
a certain Sydney theatre an author can
be heard almost every night in the week applaud-
ing his own drama till he is so exhausted that he
can hardly stand. “ Macduff s Cross," a one-act,
one-horse tragedy which is sinfully ascribed to Sir
Walter Scott, has been produced for the first time
in London. Two gentlemen of Scotch but honest
parents, argue considerably in it, and then there
is a lot of slaughter. “ Mexican Joe," another
individual who bathes only occasionally, is run-
ning another “ Wild West" hippodrome in Eng-
land. More cowboy. At Christchurch (N.Z),
George Leitch could only secure one able bodied
male white tax payer with decently straight legs
to represent the army returned from the Soudan,
as shown in “ Human Nature." The poor wreck
had to be horse, foot, and artillery all combined
The Giant Family are still on exhibition In
Sydney, and are growing fatter every day. The
horse that could carry the leading lady of this
combination is not yet built. Carrie Swain is
drawing crowds at Dunedin (N.Z.) Prinoess, a
dismal honse In a dismal baok street, where
Chinamen congregate, Edith Brandon, a pretty
little English actress, has beßtowed herself for life
on a low -priced viscount. She was a widow, owing
to the departure of a man named Jackson for the
Gates of Pearl.
It has been noted that when an old man
drops a sovereign in the gutter and the policeman
who is standing by won’t help him to look for lb,
the reason generally is that the policeman is
standing on the sovereign and doesn t want to get
off it till the old man goes away.
On Christmas Day a man in Wellington
(New Zealand) thought he would give his best
“ gell ” a little surprise, so he sharpened up his
long disused razor and shaved off his beard and
whisker s. He took cold, which changed into
pleurisy, and his address is now Hades-on-the-
Styx, or else Kingdom-Come-we don't know
which.
Everybody recollects the gibe about the
German who knocked up a chemist at the dead of
night for an emetic for his wife, and being asked
if the patient was a child or an adult, replied that
to the best of his belief the was an “ adulteress.’
This by wav of the fact that the Sydney
Daily Telegraph heads a centennial article
with the caption “Australia Adulta.’’ We do
not intend to explain the profundity of this joke.
In view of recent little Imperial flirtations on the
part of ooloaial statesmen this ought to be imme-
diately apparent.
“Picturesque New Guinea,” by J. W,
Lindt F. R.G.8., is a book with green boards and
weigblng.about 21b. It contains much valuable
information regarding the island which Sir
Thomas Mil wraith vainly attempted to jump on
behalf of the British lion, but, judging from the
number of gentlemen whom the author thanks in
his preface for information supplied and chapters
contributed, the real paternity of the volume
seems rather dubious. The illustrations, how-
ever are magnificent works of art, and they
alone should be sufficient to make the book a
success.
Patting it mildly, quail-upon-toast is a
dish that cannot be had at all the best hotels in
this colony. la point of fact, many of these
Arcadian palaces seem to trust to tinned sardines,
and fried green-hide halters (pasred off as bacon),
with an occasional egg, to supply travellers’ wants
all the year round. Only the other day a gentle-
man who had journeyed a considerable distance
in the mallee country, and had still further
to go puffed up at a wayside pub, familiarly
’ known as “ The One Eye,” and
after seeing that his horses were
fed, asked the landlord if he could
have some dinner at once, as
he was anxious to take the road
cnee more. The enterprising
caterer for the public, hearing this
request, dug his hands into his
trousers pockets, and replied,
“ Wal, we’ve nuthin’ in th’ house
jest now, but if you 11 wait till th’
boys kim 'ome, I’ll send ’em out) to
run down a rabbit and we'll cook
it for yer. Rabbits is dam good eatin’, if they’re
fat, I tell yer.” The traveller passed on.
“Do it, and be damned!” said John
Dunne to the magistrate at the Flemington (Vic.)
Police Court, when they threatened to commit
him for contempt, and then, fearing the Bench
might not comprehend the breadth, depth, and
general massiveness of his scorn, he proceeded to
further fulminate his sentiments in choice, bul-
lock-puncher’s idiom, and he whacked a constable
on the ncse with a thud like the kick of a cart-
horse. John’s masterly summing-up carried con-
viction with it—he got seven days.
The other day a Melbourne Supreme Court
Judge, when an unsavoury case was about to be
hea rd, ordered allboys and women to leave the court).
One sturdy female, however, peremptorily re-
fused to budge from the gallery, and defied
M'Donald, the crier. The late Justice Sir Red-
mend Barry had a more effective mode of scaring
the women away. One day his associate re-
quested “all females to withdraw.” Half-a-
dozen still remained. “Tell all respectable
females to leave the court,” whisper d Sir Red-
mond. The associate did so, and the fair ones
tumbled over each e ther trying to get out through
the crowd.
Colonel Barker, of the Melbourne Harmy,
has been authorised to arrest, without warrant,
any child, apparently under the age of 16, found
residing in a giddy domicile Armed with this
elastic yower, the “Colonel” should be able to
recruit some very fascinating Salvation lassies,
and we think he’s a lucky man entirely. It ought
to be eesy work, too, if he puts on his full Salva-
tion regimentals, because girls, apparently under
16, dote on the military something awful.
Which reminds us that Barker has been pub on to
the good work by the Governor-in-Council. Sir
Henry Loch evidently understands all this, for he
used to be a soger himself.
The Queensland poet Is apparently ad-
vancing backwards, and he dally leaves a fainter
footprint with his wooden head upon the sands of
time. The latest sufferer by his muse is a
country editor named Duncan Mac Master
Cameron, and this is the way his enemy has
served him up—
Pibroch of Duncan Mac,
Master Cameron;
Help him to arch his back,
Urge the wild damner on.
What wonder, in the face of that, that Duncan
curses, and offers to bet any money that bis
junior printer’s-devll’s kangaroo pup could write
better verse with its tail ?
Professor Andrew, of Melbourne Univer-
tity is suffering under a severe disappointment.
A few evenings baok the Professor saw a rainbow
after sunset. He slept little that night, and at T
next morning he dragged his beloved Argus from
under the front door and looked for letters to the
editor concerning this rainbow : “ Sir, Shortly
after the glittering orb of day had sunk below the
horizon a phenomenon of singular Australian Irif
terest,’ &c., &c. But not a ltne was in the paper.
Morning after morning the professor sought in
vain, until at last he wrote a letter hinuelt with a
view to working up the scientific wo<ld into a
decent condition of delirium. The poor man
moaned: “I have been expecting for some days
past to find my own surprise confirmed by letters
in your paper." We are real sorry for Andrew.
The savant whose intellect hungers for letters in
the Argus must be in a bad way. We haven’t
time jusD now to write a IODg letter ourselves, but
beg to offer one little suggestion. Perhaps the
phenomenon may be attributed to our Gracious
Queen's Jubilee.
Bob Ingersoll, the American preaching
atheist, sent a jug of whisky to an enemy, accom-
panied by the following letter:—“l send yon
some of the most wonderful whiskF that ever
painted landscapes in the brain of man. Drink it,
and you will hear the voices of men and maidens
singing the ‘ Harvest Home,’ mingled with the
laughter of children. Drink it, and you will fee
within your blood the star-led dawns, the dreams
of many perfect days. For 40 days this liquid
joy has been within the happy staves of oak long-
ing to touch the lips of man.’ 1 The party who re-
ceived the jug wasn’t heard from for some time,
but eventually he wrote as follows: —“ Dear sir,
—For ten days after drinking that broth of hell
that jou sent me, I have seen snakes
enough to fill all the menageries on the earth. A
million devils have danced round my brain, and I
have had a headache such as man never had
before. Besides, the judge before whom I was
brought ou the charge of disorderly conduct, said
it would be 13 dollars or 15 days. I never heard
maidens singing the ‘ Harvest Home,’ but I tried
to sing ‘We won't go home till morning’ till the
policeman clubbed me. Since I got out of gaol,
my nose has acquired the colour of a rear lantern
on a night luggage-train, and my hair comes out.
so I have to comb it with a roll of soft cotton.
May you be consigned to the place you allege does
not exist, with no zinc ulster, and may you be
given a front se it by the brimstone grate before
you send me another jug of that wonderful
whisky 1”
We have a firm belief in the never-failing
justice of Providence and firmly believed that Dr.
Cameron Lees would shortly be called to account
for traducing Sydney’s beautiful harbour, malign-
ing mellifluous Melbourne, and mis spelling
Govett’s Leap. Our hope was not in vain, for
recent exchanges from America detail how the
sacerdotal Scot was waylaid oa board a trans-
continental train by six bloodthirsty cowboys and
seriously inconvenienced. It was in the still and
silent watches of the night, and the Salt Lake
train over the Rio Grande was bowling along in
the darkness with its usual freight of sin and
sorrow discounted by the presence of Dr. Cameron
Lees, The red-shirted desperadoes didn’t take
much, but they frightened everybody out of his
wits and terrified the canny Presbyterian half-way
along the route to Paradise. The übiquitous
reporter immediately visited the ecclesiastical
cuss, who was so disturbed that he forgot his holy
calling and condescended to say several things of
an impious and profane brand. “ The beastly fel-
lows made no attempt to enter our car, so you see
we were safe, but it must have been deuced
rough on the mail agent. I know I shouldn't have
cared to have been in his boots.” The “beastly
robbers ” did not disturb the passengers, however,
though one wicked reporter says that Dr. Cameron
Lees expressed himself as indignant that the
gory Government did not provide cantonments of
troops to prevent the train robberies.” “ For,"
said the maligner of Australia. “ No gentleman is
safe in travelling in America.”
Purves, Q.C., revived in the Supreme
Court, Melbourne, the other day, an old story
that went the rounds 20 years ago. The late
Dick Ireland, Q C., was in a difficult case in banco.
Poor Richard wasn’t much of a lawyer—his strong
points being turning witnesses inside out in cross-
examination and palavering juries. Whenever
he had to fight against a question of law Dick
was obliged to have a smart junior who was well
up in the Acts and “ cases.” On this particular
occasion, young Hickman Molesworth was Ire-
land s junior. “ Oh, I eay, Ireland,” said Hick-
man, tripping into cou*t, “I’m with you in this
case of Snipson and Snooks, but we haven t a
ghost of a show, old man. There’s a case of De
Smith and Fitz-Jones reported in 7 Meeson and
Welsby 162, on all fours with this where Chief
Justice Earle, in a judgment of the full court, de-
cides dead against us. Billing, who’s going to
show cause against the rule, is bound to
cite it.” “What’s the reference again? in-
quired Richard. Hickman repeated it. “ Oh.
never mind De Smith and Fitz-Jores,” said Ire-
land, “I’ll fix that case.” Later on, the Q.C. might
have been seen rummaging about the Supreme
Court library, and then sliding into Court where
he sat at the Bar-table till the case was called.
“ If your Honors plaza, I move the rule abso-
lute,” said Richard, rising. Then Richard An-
nesley Billing. Q.C., with his lovely Dublin ac-
cent, proceeded to show cause why the rule should
ba discharged. After he bad spent half-au-hour
in arguing the merits of the case, he went on
thus : “ There’s a oase in the books, your Honors,
almost identical with this, in which the law on
the subjeot is clearly laid down. I can’t remem-
ber the name —Fitzsmith and O'Jones or some-
thing. It strikes me Ps reported in Meeson and
Welsby, but the reports in the library aren’t
complete. There’s a volume missing, and
I fancy the case is in it." At this juncture
little Schutt, the librarian, was scaling ladders
in all directions looking for 7 Meeson and Wels-
by, bat with no good result, and, as a last
resource, he stuck up the following invitation in
the library Would the gentleman who took
7 Meeson and Welsby from the library kindly
return it to the library at once ? ’ In the mean-
time, Billing closed his arguments and had to do
without Fitzsmith and O’Jones. Richard Ireland
then got on his legs and sat upon poor Billing in
one painful act. The Court made the rule abso-
lute, with costs. It then turned out that Ireland
had sat on Meeson and Welsby, as well as Billing,
for the great Q.C. produced the 7th volume of
thosa eminent reporters from under the cushion
of his seat and politely whispered to Molesworth,
“ Hickman, old man, chuck this damn book over
there baside Fellows. Come over to Anderson's.
I’m choklDg for a drink.” Some time afterwards
Schutt was seen with a book in his hand vehe-
mently gesticulating at Fellows, who was very
red in the face and saying something about
“ damn.”
“ I say, George, who in the world is that swell ?" t ‘ That ?
Why, the money-lender, don’t you know him ? No, 1
don t. I took him to he at least an Admiral. Well, he s
an admirable fellow, neverthet ss, and how do you think he
became a Shylock ? ’ “ Haven t the ghost of an idea. It s
a singular circumstance—he was doing the Domain, and
feeding when he could till he had the good luck to invest a
n und in a consultation, and drew the winner. * Australia s
Consultation, Ascot Vale Stakes now open. Run March
3rd First horse, £l5OO. Address Australia, care Hugh
Dalveen, Wholesale and Retail Tobacconist, 315 a George-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.*


Pepper
And
Salt
Dear Bullytin, — l am a whaler, and send
you the follerirg as it mey be useful to enybodey
from yure offis who wants to visit the ilend of
Paranafou :—“ King Cubby, the coffey-kulered
boss of Paranafou, a misyrab9l littel ilend in the
JSowth Pasiflick, has turned agin the whalers and
never hists his fether-duster when a mishynery is
abowt, ’ous why a ressant Yankey skipper
groa3ley deseaved his Friar's-balsam tinted ma-
gestey and awl his Impeereal dtgnyty got badly
leafb. It was a ’Friscy bark, and the skipper had
run short of water, and he put in at the ownly
port in Paranafou, jest by the King's palaes, to fill
his barrels and git a supply of wooed. Cubby the
Oneth was fond of ram, and welkumed the white-
fased strainger with all the militeary and regea’
parafinalear he kud lay his rile fingurs on. The
skipper and the mate tuk him in after inspeckting
his fore cubick foot of pastabored, and they awl
had a gorjus time together, the rum haveing
a reel sientlfick sirouleashun and its effeck
•was getting searyus for the rile ribs be-
gun to swell and
xhe skipper’s
staves to drift
away from thear
hoops. The King’s
hart bursted with
gratytood and he
arßked to be aloud
to make sum re-
turn for awl thare
kindness. In re-
ply the sekund
mate sed as how
he was a demmy-
krat and awl his
town's folk were
demmykrats. and
they’d jest vote
him strate for
Presydent, if he
knd say he’d kick-
ed a king. So
the gud-nachnred
old regalety, thow
Bnmw h a t ser-
prized, konsented
tew be kicked Hq.
tuk a long pul at
the rum bottel
and then dumped
down on awl fores
and wated. Ha
diddent wate long.
Thq mate went
back sicks paeos
and then shot oat
withhis rite mule-
kicker like a
Bteem rammer.
The King made
a wild muvement
in the air and
deskribed a sem-
my-serkel before
flnelly landen with
his hed stuck
threw the panel
of the Kaben dore
and his fist jamd
fermly threw his
own stnmmlok.
Then the rent
mate sed, he diddent beleave In faveritizm,
and he thorb he owter have a go. So the King
feelen very sore, agentuk a pul at. the rumbottel,
and agon damped down on his hands and feat and
wated. Then the first mate came along with the
foars of a dlnymight exploashln and landed his
left cock-rowch krusher with a whoop of vioktery
in the senter of the King’s Agger, and this time the
kab an dore was boosted rite away. Then the kap ting
got up, and sed sqnear was squear, and he thort
he owter to have a tern, as he was the boss of the
ship. The old King swigged orf the last of the
llcker, and dumped a therd time. The Kapting
sported owt with the fewry of a werlwind, and
shot the King down the gangwey, and then they
through him ovearbored and set sale. The King
swum ashoar, and jined the lokeal Blew Ribben
Army, and swoar orf rum and Yankey skippers,
and retorned to kannyballizm, and if a mishynery
or a wite of eny kind lands on the ilend they eat
him. I think snmtheng shud be done to him, and
remane ure’s trewly—A Whaler ”
• * *
A zealous and efficient state dog-man was
grievously imposed upon the other day in a Vic-
torian township by a soulless clod of a market-
gardening party who can’t even write his own
Ignoble cognomen. The dog-man’s duby is to
hustle after mendicant canines and pursue them
with velocity and despatch until they are over-
taken and captured, after which he dips them in
a well until their souls take flight; he also collects
registration fees, and has the law upon the har-
bourers of illegitimate poodles. This particular
canine oonstable is a proud, cold man with a
piercing black eye and a pile of stupendous cheek.
The market-gardener oalled him “ Doggy ” in the
sbreet, and derided his calling, and consequently
he loathed the cultivator of greeas, and laid for
him at every possible opportunity. At night he
turned stray dogs into his garden and in the
morning he went along to have him fined, but the
market-gardener sat up late at night and heaved
the dogs out, and the oonstable misled him every
time. But at last the soul of th 9 dog-man sang
for joy, for he observed a large, brown retriever
tied to a stump in the hostile back yard, and he
pounded at the door and howled for admittance.
“Is that there dorg registered?" he demanded
sternly. “ Naw," “You’ll have to register it.”
Naw ” “ But I’ll make you.” “Go and bust.”
“I’ll summons you.” “ See ye d d first.”
“Looky ’ere, you’ll be fined.” “Go it, Doggy;
gee up, and be ” (to be continued in our next).
The local pnp-annihilator fled down the Btreet like
a oyolone and took out the summons, and the c ase
came on for hearing. “ Joslah Perkins, yer
charged wld harborin’ an unregistered dorg,” said
the Bench. “I are, yer washup,” said the de-
fendant; “an* the dorg’s in courb. Praps ye
might like to have a look at him.” Here Josiah
hauled the dog from under a seat and dumped it
down “ fornlnst ” the Bench. It was stuffed. A
wild promiscuous game had been put up on the
dog-paralyser, and after throwing upwards of 80
stray ours over Perkins’ fence he had been trapped
into suing a stuffed canine. Collapse - general
row —gall and wormwood—voice in the court
heard to say audibly “ damn."
# • *
There was a Sunday-school picnic the other
day in the neighbourhood of Lake Bnloke (N.S. W ),
where the bun grows on the bun yah tree and the
stale tart spreads its wings upon the bhst, and
the Inflated pie walketh in darkness. The day
before the proposed spread two agile male teachers
arrived on the spot with a tank full of fresh
water, which same they ’ad ’umped a matter of
two mile, as one of them afterwards explained in
ungodly wrath. This they placed in a boat, the
water of the lake not being up to par in the shade;
They also brought a copper-boiler, and sat it up
on end beside the tank. Next day about 80 pink
legged infants arrived bearing ginger-beer, cakes,
and other Christian refreshments, and they all in-
dulged in games until the lady-teachers’ hair came
down* and the whole company hal a thirst which
an egg could have been boiled oa. Then they
looked for the copper, and, alas! it was gone. It
had been capped. In the place where it had stood
was a placard bearing the inscription, “ The
hoard will provide ” So they waited awhile, but
no copper descended from on high, and the
same two male teachers walked three miles
to borrow a washing boile ■ from a selector, who
made them leave a deposit, and then walked
tires miles back with their burdeD, and flopped
from sheer exhaustion under a tr*e. The next
move was to make the tea. The children had
been devouring dry buns all the time they were
waiting, and were parched beyond description
Just at this crisis it was found that the man who
stole the boiler had also emptied the tank, and
insile it he had put another little memo. —“ Take
NO SAVEE,
J.P. (log.): “JOHN, YOU ARE FINED [?]."
JOHN: “NO SAVRE.”
J.P. (louder): “DON’T YOU UNDERSTAND? YOU ARE FINED £10."
JOHN (excitedly): “HI. YOU VELLY MUCH SWINDLES ME, YOU SAY FT POUND, THEN YOU SAY TEN POUND.
YOU CHEATEE CHINEE MAN. NO SAVEE.”
no thought for the morrow, what ye shall eat or
what ye shall drink, for Bill an’ me has took the
water.” It oame on to rain at this point, and a
sad, solemn, scowling Sunday-scVool “push”
tramped wearily homeward, and two male
teachers tottered along in the rear with the bor-
rowed boiler. The moral of this, story is that it is
better to be an alderman and get drunk than to he
a Sunday-school teacher under a hot sun with an
empty tank.
* * *
Tuapeka (N.Z.) is a little tojvnsbip, which
is at times pretty hard up for a sensation. It is
the centre of a dreary, half-exhaus ed goldfield,
where the dismantled shafts gape sorrowfully in
all directions, and where every gully is insolvent
and each hill has a pawnbroker’s duplicate at-
tached to it, showing that the interest is over-
due. It is a place that the average bank dude
arrives at with melancholy and disgust, and leaves
in a hurry. The other day, young Brown, of the
local financial institution, got his walking-ticket
with feelings of gladness, and, preparatory to
going back to civilisation, he discarded the half-
soled pants and the decayed swallo v-tail which he
had worn as the outward symbols of his sorrow
while sojourning in the Wilderness. He put them
up in a black bag together with some other frag-
ments of his wardrobe and a brick, and dropped
the lot in the river in the silent watches of the
night. An hour later, as the village policeman
was thoughtfully opening and shutting his head
as he leaned against the pcsb outside the public-
house, a young woman came breathlessly along
and told him that she had seen a man throw the
dead body of an infant into the stream. The
stupefied cop stood one moment to glare, and
then rushed for a grappling-iron, and, as he
scudded with unwonted velocity towards the
river, he gasped out to a Salvation Army major
who was passing, “Hlniant drownded The
major also fled towards the river, and told a
Chinaman as he flew, am *. r a e Chinaman gave the
alarm to his fellow Chowa and th9y all ran. Also
the women of the locality got out of bed, and tore
away for the scene of den* h, and somebody tele-
graphed for assistance to pture a desperate band
of bushrangers, and somebody else called out the
fire brigade, and the rest shouted “ Thieves ! ’
Then, in the presence of all the assembled popula-
tion, did Constable O'Hooligan, oflloer of the
peace, fall over the local aeconntant and share-
broker in his efforts to haul up a black bag with a
briok tied to the handle, and, with the assistance
of several bystanders, he deposited the same care-
fully on the bank. “ The heartless wretch,” ex-
claimed a parson, as he saw the bag and the
brick ; “ the villains,” sobbed an hysterical female;
“ Poor little darling,” sal d the Salvation major;
“Welly wicked Eulopean,” murmured a China-
man ; and then, with a superhuman effort,
Constable O’Hooligan wrenched open the bag. It
contained a pair of pants, the sitting portion of
which had been worn away, two torn dickeys,
one split) boo* l , four socks, one ornahed plug hat,
and a swallow-tali coat worn to the last) gasp, in
the pocket of which were found a lady’s pocket
handkerchief, one peppermint, a half-eaten apple,
and a dishonoured cheque. The company took in
the nocturnal bathos of the scene at one glance,
and then they rounded on O’Hcollgan and called
him a T pperary maniac Even the Chinaman
went tack on him in that hour of derision and
observed with an air of disgust, “ Polishman
fellow big fool, makee one heao sick,” and the
parson admonished him for trifling with sacred
things, till he was moved to dance on the bag
and kick it back into the river. He missed it,
ho wever, and kicked the brick.
• » *
When the Irish nation starts to shift a pig
that pig has got to shift, or something is going
to bust. The other Saturday afternoon a Kerry
female entered the Launceston (Tas.) railway
station, and proceeded to negotiate second-class
tickets for herself, two good sized swine, one dog,
and a small billy-goat. “We don’t issue tickets
for swine,” said the clerk, scornfully. “ Then
yez'll p'raps be good enough to tell me how I m
to take them pigs, the crathers, wid me to Dolo-
raine ? ’ demanded the Kerry image, sternly.
“Why, you must engage a cattle track.” “ An’
rhwat’ll be the ixpenoe of that, young man?’
“ A shilling a mile.” “ A shilln’ a mile ! TwO
poand folve, is it? Bad luck to the sowl av yez,
it’s only two pound I’m givin’ fur the bastes en-
toirely, an’ yet would charge me folve shillings
more than the crathers are worth. Och, I’ll
niver pay any slch proice, ye murtherin’ thief.”
1 hero was a long hiatus here, and there seemed
to be every prospect of the lady and the pigs
havieg to travel by the dirt road, but
at last an appeal was carried to the
station-master and the distracted paasenger drew
such an affecting picture of herself and the pigs
framping to their distant home along the dusty
highways that he gave in. A new tariff was
framed on the spot, the pigs were classed as dogs,
and the deg was catalogued as a parrot,, and the
goat was entered as a cat, and then the whole
menagerie was landed, into (he luggage-van Or,
at least, they would have been, only the pigs
braced their feet firmly and kinked their little
cmly tails and resisted all the human machinery
of the department. In sheer desperation, four
porters glued themselves on to the smaller
of the swine and endeavoured to hist its
hindleg off the platform, but the animal
merely gave a heave and landed the whole
crowd oa the permanent way. Then the lady
threw aside her umbrella and girded herself up.
There was one tremendous convulsion which
seemed to tear up the roots of the civilised earth,
and a pig flaw through the a'n and landed in the
van. Another superhuman wrench which made
the representative institutions of the colony totter
on their base and the second hog, was fetched
along and loaded beside his oompanion, and then,
with a lopk of wither'ng derision, the female from
Kerry put her bonnet straight and took her seat.
The Department felt small, but it smothered its
feelings and the train started on its way.
* # *
Some New Zealand fogies, havo been fol-
lowing the example lately set in Queensland, and
have gone ip for a girl show. Six bald-headed
old great-grandfathers in blue winkers acted as
judges, and the young ladies started by writing a
letter apiecs and then perpetrating a mutton-pie.
At noon luncheon was served, and the competi-
tors were watched to see that they didn’t put
their knives right into their kissing apparatus.
One was disqualified for choking and another for
getting her fork in her eye, and a third got three
b ai marks for doubling her feet under her and sitting
on her boots. Then they had to wash up, and
mend a pair of stockiDgs apieoe, and sew on a
buttOD, and while they were doing this the judges
examined the letters and the pies, and disqualified
another young lady because her epistle commenced
with “ this comes hopping.” Finally, those who
had got through the ordeal so far were inspected
through a microscope cn the question of per-
sonal neatness, and a girl with burst boots
and feet that turned sideways was told
to stand out. She sai l she could lick the judges
with one hand, andasVed them to come on and
she would make them swallow their own winkers,
and, anyhow, she would set her big brother on
them. By this time there were only two girls left
in the show, and, as one of them had crumbs in
her hair, she was set aside and the survivor got
the prize. The girl with the burst boots went
away raving, and quarrelled outside with the girl
who had choked at lunch. The young lady who
put her fork in her eye expressed her doubts as to
the respectability of the winning girl’s grand-
mother, and the air was filled with words like
“ nf *Bty cat.” The prizp girl went home weepirg
at last amid a storm of vituperation, and now she
lives in incessant fear of the creature with the
burst boots, and wishes to goodness she had never
won the reward which was only a half-crown
cookery-book anyhow. Girl-shows are not, so to
speak, an unalloyed sticcessi, and they are neve r
likely to be until the day of the last great girl-
show in the stupendous Hereafter.
SHIEF MENTION
There were 50,000 bottles of liquor among
the Pope’s Jubilee presents. What a drunk the
Old man must have had !
A man wrote a letter to the S.M. Herald
and signed himself “ Only a Dog.” Ha is probably
a Chinaman—or a clergyman.
The Pope has created a Bishop of Monaco
the gambling hell. Bishops are everywhere.
There’s one in Rockhampton, too.
A Ballarat thief stole £43 10s. from the
police barracks. Of course a constable was asleep
in the same room with the money.
A plot of land, bought 40 years ago in
Melbourne for £2O, is now valued at £1 HO,OOO.
The man Who sold it in 1818 hats taken to drink.
A substitute for dynamite has been In-
vented. The Czar will now have the pleasure of
being blown up on the latest and most approved
method.
At Port Darwin (Q.), two dogs recently
nearly ate a live Chinaman in the street. But,
alas 1 the Chows are many and the dogs com-
paratively few.
A man named King recently attempted
to blow up the gaol at Freemantle (W.A.). Tnis
is the most effectual method on record of elevating
the criminal classes,
Henry George committed suicide in
Echuca, the other day, Henry was poor and out
of work, and took the only means open to him of
securing a plot of land.
A poor, aged woman was sentenced In
England recently to be imprisoned for seven years
because she stole one piece of under linen I
Another jar. for the blind female.
Judge (to condemned murderer) : “Is
there anj thing you want to say why judgment
should noti be passed }” Murderer: “In was
always the wish of the deceased to die suddenly."
A Bourke (N.S.W.) journal has a long
article headed “The Barcaldine Bore.”' We
didn't read the article, but we sympathise with
the editor. They are very bad in Sydney just
now.
A few days ago a man and woman took six
large-sized youngsters to Sb. John's Church, Bris'
bane, and had them christened. Evidently they
liked the style of the church, for they called again
next day and were duly married.
The wind storm last week anticipated
Lady Carington in the unveiling of the Queen’s
statue. The old rag which hid a sovereign from
the gaze of the loyal people of Sydney was ruth-
lessly blown down Macquarie-street.
A Yankee inventor says that he has dis--
covered a new force in nature, by which he can
elevate a ship high in the air and take it from one
sea to another, no matter what the distance may
be. We know what that force is. It is hard
lying.
The manager of a certain Sydney subur*
ban cemetery writes his reports in a ghoulish-
strain. In hiß last statement to the local counoil
he complained that business was “slack," and
“ regretted to chronicle the fact” that there had
been “only 7 A corpses” during the month,
A philanthropic gentleman named- Henley
has read a paper in Melbourne, proving to his own
satisfaction that a system of indisoriminate
charity is “ cruel.” True humanity consists in
never giving away gaxpence until you have made
the strictest inquiries into the applicant’s case,
my beloved brethren.
They commence young In the Society'
Islands. Queen Johannah, who is only 15 years
of age, is suing hsr old man, King Pomare, for a
divorce on the ground of cruelty and drunken-
ness. Just the same as if they were aristocratic
whites l What a blessing the missionary is to the’
poor benighted nigger.
For the 575th time in six months the 1
Evening News observes that a citizen has
“gone over to the greab majority.” If this
old red sandstone gag adequately describes 1
the state of the multitudinous dead we suppose
that the coffin must be regarded as a rare old bal-
lot-box through which everybody’s vote must
pass.
It has jasfa leaked out that it cost Eogland 1
£lOOO to purchase a Garter for the Crown Prince of 1 '
Austria when that gentleman was promoted to be’
a Knight of the Order. Considering the pauper
state ths grand old mother land has been in of
late it would have been far more sensible on her
part to insist that the Crown Prinoe should wear-'
sacks like any other man.
The News states in a recent issue :
“A solicitor's clerk, named Charles John Henry Arthur 1,
Hart Dyke Campbell Camden Pratt, th s being his full
cam’, was arrestei at Geelong on Wednesday, on a charge’
of embezzlement and forgery."
Shado cf. George Washington Kosoiusko Peter
Bonaparte Solomon Job Smith ! And was that all 1
the name the poor fellow had ?
A woman was run In for some petty lar-
cany down South recently, and ordered to appear '
before the P.M. In order to make a conquest of
Che whole Court, she appropriated the hat and 1
jacket of another woman, and so implicated her-
self fctlll further. But she didn’t care, So long
as the was “ sent up ” in a Battenberg iaoket and 1
a seven-storied hat with a bunoh of poppies and a-
stuffed hird cn it, she was content.
A Civil servant writes to the Nooze sug-'
gesting that the salaries of his fellow-toffs due on
February 1, should be paid a week previous, as all
their money has been spent daring the Christmas 1
holidays, and they haven't a stiver in their 1
pockets for the centenary. It is the deuce to 1
please those civil servants, but if they leave their 1 '
weskita with Three-Ball Abigail they will pro-
bably get enough advanced on them to oarry them 1
through.
There was a banquet given to a departing !
white man in a little N S W. township last week, f
and the company waded through a long list of
toasts, till at last the chairman, who was getting''
to be uncertain on his legs, proposed the Par-liar-
ment of N.S.W. Then he waited for someone tc '
respond. There was a long, long pause. At last 1
a Frenchman, who was sojourning in the land
arose to fill the gap. “Blast the lot of them !'
he,said solemnly, and the toast was drunk.


Study your own interest by using Pemells Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour It is made in the colony from
the best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price *ery low.
PERSONAL ITFM'S.
Parkea ia beginnicg to get bald.
T ord Lofbns hss offered hia creditors 3s.
if r J a nd they have accepted with a groan.
in the &, , j w n Suttor writes about
I, h. 1» hi.
second ? tQ have a fair Bhow in the
parkea o g * t h , a hair cu t after 12
any other night.
Poor Ferdinand, cf Bulgaria, is having a
. f of it. He can’t float a loan, and some-
ftogTerious has happened to his nose. In fact
the organ has been bashed,
Oueen Victoria ia celebrated for her fat
•^ u w „ hasten to explain that there is
calves. We . t hi s only her Gracious took
n ? thl prizes e for her fat calves at the last cattle-
show at Smithfleld.
That eminent basher of the human race,
*na Sullivan Is reported to have de-
Mr ufdthe English people as “pigs without tails.’
ThS oPinion should brat some weight, as John
SVd a low experience ..»8 .«■
rpho Bake of Abercorn —bless him !—sym-
a with his liish tenants. He has divided
Pa ?third ofMb estates among 300 of them for the
° consideration of £3OO 000 “Realisation
before Confiscation ” is the dear Book’s motto
\ T r»ndon wine-merchant advertises that
. A a is “very expensively patronised
Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen.'’ This
by Her MO3C u Graoiou9 drank a lot, and we
amount to a
big, overgrown, bull-libel.
At a Sydney police court, the other day,
AX> a charged a man with picking
tW °tAta but Mr. Walter Coonan, solicitor, got
box and gave him such a high character
few™ tomfdlately acquitted. Yet.it tafl.
Mg sin ” aomebody wu testifying about Mr.
Coonan’s character. ,
Tn the fashionable London clubs men drop,
the windows now when Wales comes »,
? t iv,pv 6 should find themselves involved in a
lest theyshoi bald-headed Heir-Appa-
game of ° 0 p® iaoe oo n e cts every cent when he
= annever pays when he loses, and, conse-
A man named Blaze keeps a pub in
“ Thfiboss of the adjacent lawyer a office
fS/that wheT the clerks go out they shonld
Insists stating where they have gone and
le w e tw have also how they intend
and 8 how long it will take them to
££?to*U The legend o» the .late gene-
reeds, “ Gone to Biases.
Jonah Perkins went North, from Brisbane
»iv the Barcoo the other day, in company with
by th ® M . s P . There were some misgivings
L was seen to ccme on board, and the cap-
Inothe" boat strung up and took the
himself all the way un. These two cir-
Lnres averted the vfonted catastrophe, and
STES?dSSt end as nsnalinthe Hon. Pa’rick
Perkins clinging to a mast in a rsging sea.
C P Hods s, the Chinese interpreter of
Melbourne, has been promoted to be a heathen.
wArflsi he has been created a mandarin,
In other w > himsslf out in colours which
and is entitled to rig n & flfc . q & dish of Btraw .
!™SSS b and to wear* petticoats if he wants to.
of news somehow recalls a reminiscence
when a New Guinea chief toot a
f _g at ,d wanted to make us a naturalised
SSb“”'weVeUued the honour, however.
TVia records of the Gladesville Xjunatic
. , the present history of Poultcn,
Awlum *"S, r ol a nttle band ol re-
Moloeg (N.S.W.). Kellglcn
ligious enui ideas, and when he was
•capsizedthis > gted 4a haranguing
inks n the adj acent cells the authorities
the drunks in cff ag a lnnatic , Un lik.c
thfl Bible reader—-who murdered his
Wyndha , en _p<juiton sent his better-half
an LS a Ss to New /Zealand where he com-
o. hit Heavenly Maefr
■and his earthly mother-in-law.
Sir Archibald Michio, Q.C., of Melbourne
-telfs some queer yarns about when h» w-Afert
■General forVictoaan a 0 hlsname cn the
directions to a-sign .. , « „ 7 Anfnt
•window and the beast made him (Jenerai Agent
•for Victoria.” The same day Archie was besieged
by all sorts and conditions of men-soapboilers,
Socers who sold tinned meat, pnvate-isqniry
'grocers \ 1 Allows whese brother Pa,
rmen, dog-fanoieie, leuowa island
went out to Melbourne, N.S.W., in the island or
went out w j hadn’t been -heard of since,
Tasmania, in 62, ana nauu .
and the rest-all wanting to trade. Ihe speed
•with Which that sign was taken down was the
Itatost K£g«er eeeniu the City of London.
Sir Bryan O Loghlen, who i« going to eon-
-teat the (or Belfast in the tfiotonan Aerem.
Wir ViAin-nffß to a ‘legal ’fan&Uy* His father, Sir
Michael O'Loghlon, was the flrat ®°"““
Judge appointed »
termaUon. A mateie stand, in the
0. ae Jon®," Lublin The
second baronet was Sir Colman, Sir Bryan s
brother. He was a Ssrgemt-at Law, md his
funeral took place about ten years ago. He died
of injuries recalled by cominglnto tbehallof
hia house in Merrlon-3quare, Dablin, late one
night, and falling over some things a 3 he groped
his way in the dark in search of a blessed ma„ch-
Balfour, 'Chief Secretary for Ireland, is
described as a languid and feebiedookmg young
man with a washed-out air. He is » Jhetio. and
is one of the stranded wrecks of tha . ® re .® ®. y
yallery school whloh Oscar Wilde founded in the
days when he worshipped the sunflower the
lily, and the peacock’s feathah. With regard to
his irreligious views, Balfour is an a« no ®^ c a “ J
he has long since given She.fi away to -somebody
who Beemed to want it worse than he >
now he doesn’t know anything, and lsnit even
positive that he is alive. His outer aspect is that
of a man who was born exhausted, and
Ireland mostly from his sofa. The billet he holds
killed Forster and turtied Trevelyan s hair grey,
but Balfour lolls through It and never turns one
of his well-oiled hairs.
The late Judge Poblman, of Melbourne,
was a pious man with a little lisp, who too a
great intere tin the welfare of criminals. _
used to speak tenderly and forgivingly to t e
garotter, until that misguided individual would
feel as if Pohlman was his long-lost pa, ana tne
he would make a little remark or two at the ena
of his disoourse which would cause the garotter s
hair to stand up and his jaw to drop light down
to his legs. This was the wayt he Judge generally
’Went on: “ Well, John Smith, de jury huv o
found you guilty, and I’m sure you can't but dink
dey did right. You lave a lot of common zense,
and I be’ieve you’re a man of naturally good de-
position. Dere are zoveral t xtenuating zercum-
stanoes in yourcasr, but de law is de law, and
must be upheld. Now, I hope you’ll make
uzo of your time in gaol. I would advise
you to learn a trade. What trade would
you like? Military tot maker; very good;
a niz). respectable, and remunerative occupation
Well, John Smith, as I ztd before I don’t look
upon you as an ordinary criminal. I dink dere are
zeveral cggsellent traits in j our character, which
if properly trained and directed, would make you
an ornament of tsoziety. I shall speak to the
chaplain about you, and get him to zee
you as oft&n rs he can. Well, now, as I
have said, I take an interesb in your case, and
I earnestly hope to see you reformed. The sen-
tence which I am about do pass on yon is meant
for youi l good and well-being, not as a revenge
for de outraged law. De zentence of the court is
dat you be imprieo ed for 10 years, the first dree
in iron?, and dat you receive dree whippings of 50
lashes each 1”
Tks N.S.W. Year Book tells us that
Private Secretary Wallirgtoi was educated at
Oxford, font it does not state where Abigail was
dragged up,
An Adelaide constable charged a larrikin
with hindering him in the execution of his duty a
few days tack, and it transpired in evidence that
the prisoner had found the trap sleepirg on his
beat, and had disturbed him by rolling him into a
gatter. He had a fine ooncep' ion of Ms duty, that
constable.
In this age of cable trams and electric
motors, the old-fashioned horse-power hearse is
away behind the times, and cannot hope to give
satisfaction to a censorious and luxurious genera-
tion. Riches and honours await the enterprising
undertaker who may be first to run his hearse by
the agency of steam, gas, or electricity—horses
are trieky and unreliable. For instance :At a
THE JOYS OP ART.
AUSTRALIAN SMALL BOY (log.): “HI, MISTER, FATHER SAYS IF YOU WANT TO
FINISH TH AT THEE YOU’VE GOT TO LOOK SHARP, AS HE'S GOIN TO CUT
IT DOWN."
I funeral in South Melbourne, the other 4ay, one
of the hordes attached to the hearse, after assist-
ing to tow deceased same considerable distanoe,
suddenly dropped dead, causing, as alooal
boldly stated at the time, “considerable annoy-
ance to all concerned,” It is not very often that
a faneral is re-hearsed, but this one had to be.
The rabbits round Belfast (Vic.) are par-
ticularly voracious. After eating every settler in
the district) out of house and horn*, and farming
implements, and scoffing everything on the land,
saving the mortgages, the rapacious rodents have
attacked the late lamenteds in the local burying-
ground. At a recent meeting of the Belfast
Council it was proposed ‘ 1 that all bodies be re-
moved from the cemetery, as the rabbits are dis-
interring them.'’ The look out for the industrious
paitaralist is becomlrg grave down Belfast way.
Ad his life he is vainly sooling hen ague or chicken
cholsra on to the destroying rodent, and when at
last he gives np and dies in sheer weariness the
avenging rabbio comes to the mausoleum where
he has been dumped among his fathers and hauls
him out on the damp grass.
POLIT ICAL
POINTS
Parkes says N.S.W. will one day be a
great power. Goat or horse-power we wonder?
Parkes has been made a grand cross of the
Order of Sb. Grovel and St. Gorge. This 5s rough
on the Order.
The present N.S.W. Parliament House
wai partly paid for in rum. The spirit of its
early traditions clings around it still.
Bray is one of the candidates for the South
Australian Speakership. The N.S.W. Speaker
can’t Bray, but he’s Yeung yet and has lots of' ime
to grow.
The Sydney D.T. has not done cursing
Knapp yet hr splitting the vote on the Soup
Kitchen ticket at Padding toe. The suiiect is
getting rather stale no w.
In accordance with the law of “ Dear
Wise,” “ Dear Cortis,” and “tendency to insanity
Praen, ’ Mr. Addison sent a man to gaol for 14
days for stealing a faded bouquet!
Sir Anthony Muegrave is returning to
Queensland after six months absence. The colony
has gone on without him just the same, and lots
of people didn’t even know he had been away.
“'Tis an ill wind that blows nobody
good.” The tailor who made the suit which was
so mysteriously dropped down the chimney of
William O’Brien’s cell has received orders from
all parts of Ireland for suits of a similar pattern.
The idea was worthy of a level-headed Yankee.
There are rumours of another railway con-
tract arbitration to be wriggled through at the
cost of a long-sufferiog and slow-bleeding mule of
a country. Judging by our experiences of recent
similar steel-rail diets, Joe Thompson and Pro-
fessor Zanzibar Jaokson should be the arbiters,
and Laurence Foley, Ksq., referee.
John Davies is said to be a good deal wor-
ried about a personal matter. He has now six
letters trailing after his distinguished epithet,
and doesn’t know whether the M.L.C. or the
C.M.6. should come first. Probably the easiest
way would be to shunt three of the letters in
front of him and haul the rest behind.
Two thousand armed crofters are now
gathered near the old town of Stornoway in the
island of Lewis (Scotland). A force of marines,
those mongrel troops who call themselves soldiers,
but are always at tea and generally sick, has been
sent against them, and something like a good-
sized insurrection seems to be looming.
The Federal Council did useful work at
Hobart. It laid on the table (and left it there)
I correspondence explaining the Queensland separa-
tion movement, and adopted an address of con-
gratulation to the Queen. Remaining business
co„s sted of sherry and biscuits, banquets and
back-scratching. This great country is getting
awfully English, you know.
There are now in the N S W. Legislative
Aesemt ly the two brothers Allen, one of whom is
an a dent Protection’st, and bears the nickname
of “ Soapy.” The other, a poet and teetotaller, is
a fanatical “ Freetrader’ of the Parkesian order.
Tfle two Allej s, The Bulletin submits, must
hereafter be known respectively as “ Soap " and
‘ Water ” —which has long been needed at Sydney
Parliament Houses.
When Sir Patrick Jennings was at home
he took the opportunity of running over to his
native bog in Ireland. He thought they would
make something of him now he was a Sir and a
K.C.M.G. But he foucd everybody taken up
with the arrival of the local Home Ruler, and Sir
Pat had to take a back seat with the chorus. His
views on the Home Rule Question have matured
considerably in consequence.
The N.S. W. Foreign-tradepartyhavemade
much capital lately out of an alleged “fact” that
N.S. W. bad more cash deposited in the Savings
Banks than had Victoria. The reality is, how-
ever, that Victoria, on the 30. h June, 1887, with
35,000 less population, was nearly £200,000 ahead
in tne matter of deposits. The precise figures
beirg—Victoria, £3,564 580; N.S.W., £3,394,636
—3O much for Protec. ion and the working man's
savings therefrom. In Victoria the number of
depositors was 203,845, while in N S.W., with a
larger population, there were only 114,085.
The N.S.W. papers are carried free of
charge. The astute proprietors of certain London
alleged papers are perfectly aware of this momen-
tous fact In order to save postage they simply
forward every mail electro-plates of the current
number of their print, work off the copies in
Sydney, and send them round per the man in the
red-coat with a mall-bag under his arm at the ex-
pense of the tax-payera of that glorious freetrade
colony. We respectfully call Mr. Crown-and-
Anohor Robert’s attention to this little fact!
The Sydney D.T. advertises that it pub-
lishes “Humour, fact and fun." Wonder under
which head this comes ?—•“ Lord Ripon says that
the arrests of Mr. Wilfrid Blunt, M.P., and Lady
Anne Blunt, in Ireland, were illegal. Lord Ripon's
statement, however, is claimed to be erroneous,
as neither Mr. nor Lady Blunt were (sic) arrested.”
And yet the whole world knows by this time that
Lady Blunt has been doing washing and mangling
in the stone jug, and that her husband is now
teivlng his sentence in a counterpane, hia day
and night toggery having been taken by the
“ authorities.”
The N.Z. papers eat the leek once more.
They are need to it, you know. They stated there
had been some disturbance amongsb the men
belonging to the Squadron now in N. Z, waters,
but learning that the Hadmlral was annoyed con-
siderable at their remarks, and fearful of losing
the chance of a beer and cheese with him, they
took it all back. But there was a good deal of
I die satisfaction on board all the same, and it took
pretty practical shape. Most of the portable
articles about were hove overboard, including
eights of guns and other property belonging to
Her Majesty, and the chief figurehead of the fleet
was treated disrespectful like. Britons never
shall be slaves.
There is a hideous story of that Irish in-
surrection which raged in Wicklow and Wexford
at the close of last century that goes far to explain
the fathomless hatred with which Charles Stewart
Parnell regards the English rule in Ireland. The
captured insurgents were hanged, shot, and trans-
ported by scores, and one, as an example to the
rest, was ordered by the British commander to be
flogged to death on the abdomen. Among the
witnesses of this ghastly tragedy waß a bay named
Gaffney, who grew up to be a servant on the Par-
nell estate. He never forgot the specimen of
British justice which had hoi rifled him in hia
early years, and it was his tales of the days of ’9B
which first started Mr. Parnell on the crusade
which made him the uncrowned king of Ireland.
FIDELITY.
!The type of British sailor depicted by Mr. T. P.
looke, who wore a pigtail, danced hornpipes,
hivered his timbers, and was considered able to
oil six pirates at least into the lee scuppers is ex-
Lnct, but the spirit of the true sailor burns as
igh as ever even in these prosaic days of steam-
hips. Douglas, of the Lyeemoon, may be taken
s a fair type of this < Ises, brave, true to his trus.*
nd gentle and considerate to women and child
en. When the ill fated vessel was well nigh
ashed to piece 3 on the rock 3, and his own life
iung almost on a thread, he not only stuck to his
aptain to the last, but did his utmost to save the
infortunates about him. And this is but a single
llustratlon. Masters of ships, and sailors as well,
je rarely found wanting in time of peril. Capt.
fames Hill, of the Victorian Government s.s.
4 Melbourne,” River Murray, says “ During
he past three years I suffered from most intense
lain in the head, night and day, for five weeks to-
jether, until my life became a burden to me. It
vas with the gieatest difficulty that I could dis-
iharge my duty, and I thought that I should have
co resign. About nine months ago I went to a
ihemist srnd asked him for Warner’s safe cure. I
lad no faith in it, but I thought I would try one
oottle, and the effect was just marvellous ; it re-
moved the pain that I had in my left kidney for
chree years. My urine wts very bad, and full of
brick dust. The first bottle b ought aqu *ntity
of blocd and slime from me, which gave the
greatest relief and better spirits, and I continued
to take Warner’s safe cure. I took 20 bottles, and
am glad to say that I am better than I have been
tor the past 14 years. Headaohes all gone, pains
in the back and kidneys all gone, spirits returned ;
I can do my duty without fatigue. My age is 57,
and I am well known in Bchuoa for the past 22
years. Have advised scores of others to try
Warner's safe cure with the same results.” Cap
tain W. Page, of the Queensland Government
steamer “Ckter,” says:—‘‘For several years I
have been afflicted with an ulcer on my leg, whioh
at times caused me the moat acute pain. I also
suffered from pains in the loins and abdomina
regions. I procured Warner’s safe cure and
Warner’s safe pills, and after the use of four
bottles I gladly bear witness to the curative
powers of the medicine. My ulcer is nearly
healed, and my bodily health is greatly im-
proved.” Captain John Balfour, of Latrobe
Terrace, Geelong, says“ Having tried many
different medicines for liver and kidney disorders,
I must say I know of none to equal Warner’s safe
oure and Warner’s safe pllla- I have reoom
mended them on all hands, and will continue to
do so."


From the Evening News :—“ The case of
the Rev John Jones, who was recently expelled
from the island of Mare, in the Loyalty group, by
the French authorities of New Caledonia, con-
tinues to attract considerable interest among that
numerous class of the Australian community
which interests itself in the old
f nglish Christian missions in Polynesia.” A re-=
presentative of the Even int. News recently waited'
upon the Fev. Mr Jone‘», and had a prolonged
interview with him, during which, in answer to a
number of questions, Mr. Jones observed :
1. “I paid, for my land in Polynesia, 16(3
yards of calicoes and 160 yards of print at la,
a yard. This was a lair and even a liberal
price for the land, particularly when it is
oorne in mind that at the time the
natives attached absolutely no
value to it, and bad no idea that
anyone would think of paying'
so much for it ; and the
land was a mere steril«-
sand heap."
2. “ I made this land valuable after years of weary
labour The natives [the natives, it would appear,
did the weary ’’ business] carrying away the
\ sand in sacks, and bringing soil from the in-
\ t-erior of the island.”
o r _ /
5. By the bye, it just occurs to us. Supposing the
Bueiny of Souls had put it into the hearts of those
heathen Polynesians to pay for the Rev. Jones ser-
mons in “ prints and calicoes at Is the yard,” perhaps
he would have built a different sort of house upon his
" sand heap ”
6. “Mrs. Jones has been a splendid
housekeeper and economical manager
during the thirty years she assisted
me in my mission work at Mare.
" T may mention that my house, which I was several
years in building at a great cost, contains all the fittings,
conveniences, and modern appliances <f a suburban residence
in Sydney. It contains sitting and dining room study,
numerous bedrooms batli-roomw, school-rooms, store-rooms,
and kitchen. These ure all filled with modern furniture, and
stores of the most varied and extensive description The
total value of the whole must considerably exceed £.5000."
(The Reverend Mr. Jones is given in the foreground of the
picture, near the pig, under an umbrella, getting up a sermon
about “ the House ouilt upon the Sand,”
0. The original owners of tin 1 land
are perfectly satisfied with their bar-
gain, it would appear—so long as the
calicoes and prints at Is. the yard
lasted, doubtless.
By her thrift and self-denial she has
succeeded in saving a little year by
year out of her housekeeping ex-
penses. W ith her savings she came
to Sydney about four years ago and
bought a small four-roomed cottage
at Hunter’s Hill, where we ajre now
staying with three of our daughters,
whose education Mrs. Jones came to
Sydney to superint-nd. But w«
have nothing beyond Mrs. Jones’
scanty savings ; all my possession*
are in M are and without them lam
a ruined man ”
7. "The Frenchmen's charge that T came - away with SO.OOOf.
is not true * * * I had tuy box opened in the presence
of witnesses, and found to contain 19,000 f. in various turns in
little bags bearing the names of natives and others, who have
given me this money to keep for them in various amounts and
on divers occasions. Of course this money I shall return to
them ; and I have written to Mare to know whether they
would prefer that I should forward on the money itself or pur-
chase with it goods and stores for them. 1 ’
8. “It lias yet to be
seen,” shrieks the Noosb,
whether such a man as
this has not rights which
the much boast cl Union
Jack shall cover and pro- mtUt f /
tect in spite ot the aggressive French tricolour who impu.
dently Haunts itself in Australian waters as the em blent
ol convictistn If such men as the Rev. John Jones aro
not fitting objects of England’s Imperial solicitude tho
sooner the fact is known the better it will be both for
Australians and Jfc nglisbmen in this part of the world
in the effectual safeguarding of which Imperial federa-
tionists profess such deep solicitude.’* ft
The Troubles of Missionary Jones.


IK )l/SUAL fA^io^.
Fql Ci fdß /mv <j>p£.|V|Kf / i-A^DC- 01
' vA«S AftVtRSARIIFS JAYV.
'fijE, LAfT£. r \ Tr’ieo ic» cuvHTEff 0 y i J ur nv
c tit ft P\T£!) IjAlfAfth t/PPEp CtrTo/E% ThFitjE/ftf
lv ... I fl(3S (?/
<Rys fc smash I n fi
rV\P>D nvf foi-ty ir^^tvm)
<jof away fftOM e/ rv' n>y
|j {wt cross - rs\jyyocK or b^ck
CISoSE
SPA f7ft ' ' T{AP"fB
-ImF fvEr'fvAi-y \o7 fo c^o^t^
Ovf\'X<£ RS A 0//f( OOtff f (fim
f bfS\J£ 0
S]ovYrrf't r $ /f# * Pres s
r^ A -' °i Oppress
The Burke-Foley Fizzle.


fkeckierahe.
The un par alt 11 d suoceas of this preparation in removing
Freckles Tan, Bunt urn, 4c . has already caused a numbtr
of unscrupulous persons to place worthless imitations on the
market. Bjwi reef such, and see the written signature F.
Moors Clements, in red ink acro>s label. Reject all others,
or get it'direct, post free for 2s. lOd. in N S.W. stamps,
from Washington H. Soul and Co., P.tt-st eet, Sydney, or
the inventor P Moore Clements 141 K’ng-street, New-
town, NB. W. Please report all c» sea of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate Rgal proceedings will be com-
mented by F M. Olementh, Newtown, NS W *
The wonderful Candlestick that can be affixed to any
smooth surface and again removed in about 15 seconds, also
a large Bbipment of Crystal Palace outside Lamps have just
been received by Bray Broth krs, 402 and 404 George
street.
Olaremont, Dailinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private Medi-
cal and Sargioal Home, established by Hr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes.
The residents, who are provided with teparate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a eonstant medical super'
vision with the oare and attention of a trained nursing staff
For pa.ticulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*
Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hjde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
Shalvky, has spared no expense to make his hotel the first
in Sydney *
Society
This little story relates to an Australian
bishop, and it is told with all due reverence, and
with every possible effort to bear light on the dig-
nitary in the gaiters and the broad shovel hat.
He had been out at a sacerdotal feed and was re-
turning home in hia carriage, when it occurred to
him that the vehicle was zig-zagging in a way
which did no 1 ! accord well with the solemnity of
the Churoh. At one mom ant it was shaving the
gutter at one side of the street, and the next it
was making a bee-line for the opposite lamp-post),
and then it would start at a gallop in pursuit of
an old woman half a mile ahead, and when she
just escated beiog brained the driver would hail
her a 3 “ old girl,” ar d ask where she bought that
hat. At last tie bishop stuck his episcopal head
out of the window, and took Btock of the position,
only to discover that the driver was a wild, hoo-
raying drunkard, and was totally unfit to be
trusted out with a bishop. So he was pub inside,
and the reverend gentleman drove home while
his servant wallo »ed in the bottom of the vehie’e.
At the gate a groom came out and looked up at
the coachman tbrongh the darkness. “ Why,
Bill,” he exclaimed, with a guffaw, “ I’m blessed
if ye ain’t gob old Tommy’s hat on !’’ He got a
rebnke from old Tommy which made him totter
in his boots, and the remarks he afterwards made
to Bill, whom he regarded as the cause of his un-
doing are not fit to appear in these columns.
Somewhere about a year ago a happy
young lawyer left his childhood's home in Eng-
land to look for clients in the strange land of the
Maori and the apparently extinct moa, which
latter still keeps on being extinct. He was' a
mother’s joy and a fond father’s pride ; he had a
little money, and he was sea-sick—awfully, aw-
fully eiok. When he recovered from this afflic-
tion he took to gambling, and gob rid of every
cent he owned, and, on landing, ha wasn’table even
to raise enough to pay for admission to
the local Devil’s Brigade. So he tramped
the streets of Auckland, and his postal
address was No. 1 boiler on the wharf.
Things were not very joyous in that boiler, and
at night as the wind whistled through it he lay
and dreamed of home, and wished he had fallen
overboard while a child. But at last one night a
shock-head looked in upon him, and a voice asked
if the galoot inside wanted a sheol of a job, and if
he did he’d better come out pretty slick. He
came out, and the owner of the shock-head set
him to work at cleaning out a stable. Two hours
later he knocked him down with a pitchfork,
and next day he threw him down from the hay-
loft. At the end of a fortnight of carting dirt and
similar employment the lawyer asked for his
wages, and was told in return to stoop down, and
when he had done so the owner of the premises
took a running kick ab him contrary to the laws
of hospitality as understood by civilised nations.
The lawyer laboured in the stable in a bell-topper,
and when he went to bed in the manger he was
accustomed to plant this article and the
rest of his clothes under his bunk to
prevent the horses knocking them into the week
after next. The night after he was kicked he did
this as usual, and at midnight's solemn hour a
dark form sto’e into the premises and took away
everything except some hay and a shirt, A young
and promising solicitor from home now camps in
an empby stable in one single undergarm9nt, and
subsists on charitable contributions which are
passed in under the door, and his only hope is
that he may be able to hold out there until he
gets an answer t j the unstamped letter which he
gave to a boy to post to his father. If the boy
didn’t po3b it goodness only knows what will
become of him.
* * *
“ At the head of that great bedy, which
spreads far and wide over the land, stands our
illustrious Grand Master, the Prince of Wales ”
(Loud applause).— Speech of the Earl of Carnar-
von at the Masonic Banquet, Sydney.
A loyal corresp indent writes to an English
socie'iy paper that “It will probably surprise a
good many to be informed that Princess Beatrice's
little children are often to be seen around Wind-
sor, unaccompanied, except by their nuries.”
Shades of the Conkeror, is this a fact? We
should have thought that they would have gone
through the town in a gilded chariot drawn by
Arabian horses, and driven by a Dook, with a
crowd of loyal citizens in front, hu rahiog and
strewing the read wi h flowers aed ad rei.es,
and a troop of Horse Guards, and a brass band
and a dog-fight or two bringing up the rear, and
that a gilded menial would come tearing along
behind them with a plate of tarts in case the
Battenberg infants might feel hungry. This i i
our idea of doing the thing in Royal style, and
we would have had the Msyor and Corporation
turned out—particularly the corporation -1 nd the
local fire-engine wonld have been wbooping in
the van of the procession, and a prize fighter and
several pieces of artillery. We know something
about pomp, anyhow.
* * *
The groat moral panorama of things wa3
upended a few weeks ago at a Central Queens-
land seaport, when an aged, and presumedly re-
spectable, doctor borrowed the lawful female of a
bu cher, and fled with her aoross the heaving sea.
leaving the man who lived by retailing goats as
lamb chops to mourn in his desolate home. For a
little while the guilty pair enjoyed their stolen
happiness on a foreign strand, and then their fate
ovr rtook them. The butoher rose with vengeance
in his eye, and, leaving the veal cutlets to decay
upon the counter and the sausages to perish in
the window, he followed in pursuit. He overtook
them in London, and shot the dootor’s legs from
under him, so that he bad to go to the hospital on
his hands, and as the shrieking female turned to
fly he fired into her bustle. Then he scudded into
the caves of seclusion, and the two einne-rs are
having the shot picked out of them In the hos-
pital.
• * *
The physical exercise movement among
girls has not been quite the success in Melbourne
that was anticipated. A month’s praotice at
heaving the Injun club makes each fair creature’s
waist expacd to such a degree that she can't get
into her best dress any more than if she was a
eoalheaver, and her delicate little paw grows
large and ponderous. Also, her snow-white hoof
MAMMA: “YOU SILLY CHILD, HAVE YOU NO COMMON SENSE?"
AUSTRALIAN CHILD: “OH, YES, MAMMA, I'VE LOTS, BUT I DON'T WANT TO USE
IT ALL AT ONCE.”
becomes heavy and comes down with a thud
like a golden leg as she waves that delicate mem-
ber In the mazy waltz, and when she takes off
some of her things to go to the theatre she shows
an imposing back, which is very different from
the one she used to have. These things are
serious drawbacks, and the girls are becoming
disgusted with the dumb-bell exercise, and have
taken to lying on the sofa with a novel ones more.
• * *
“It ia pretty well known how very par-
ticular the Prince of Wales is as to his pert onal
appearance, and it is a eource of great annoyance
to him that no restorative has yet been fonnd that
can call back into growth, if not an abundant
crop, at least an aftermath of hair.”
There were some slight drawbacks at a
late Salvation wedding which came off ia a town
on the N.S.W. Southern line. The bridegroom
was a grandfather, aged 73, and the blushing
bride a grandmother of 59. Also the captain who
performed the ceremony was clean bowled with a
bad egg in the eye.
* * #
The S.M. Herald became painfully retro-
spective in a recent issue, and, in culling the
lilies of other days, uprooted this
At an Anniversary ball in 1811 much admiration is re-
quested for a picture which forms part of the decorations,
viz , “A black in one of the most animated attitudes of the
corroboree, pointed, with his waddy, at the Church of St.
Philip, at which an accurate perspective was given, as sym-
bolical of the Christian religion inviting them to happiness.
The undrefSBd son of the forest pointing his club
at a church and waiting for the minister to come
out with a view to caving his head in isn’t quite
our idea of what a Christian symbol ought to be,
but it doesn’t matter. Even without the club,
the naked nigger isn’t very appropriate, but it
isn't of any consequence. Still, we think that a
native throwing a spear at a tea-meeting would
perhaps have filled the bill a little better, or a gin
heaving a rock at a bazaar, or a kangaroo letting
out with his hind claw at a monk—but, anyhow,
it doesn’t signify at all.
* * *
The Auckland (N.Z.) Salvationists cele-
brated Christmas by an all-night gathering for
prayer and wailing. The meeting commenced
after the hour when the sinful publican gives up
his trade and closes the shutters, and by midnight
there wasn’t a collar in the place that hadn’t
burst. The officer of blood and glory admonished
the faithful to let the starch fly and let out
another reef in the main hatch, and the excite-
ment grew awful. The trombone was blown out
straight; several virgins fainted and were re-
moved into the coal-hole; a Maori got converted
and said that all he had he would give to the
Loard, but when they sized him up he had only a
shady title to a half-acre onion patch ; and a Gar-
man got on the platform and said, “I’ve found
peace and now I donkerdam for anything.” Then
the officer in charge delivered an address about
the evil spirits which entered into the swine and
rushed down a steep place into the sea, and specu-
lated a little as to the fate of any demon who
couldn't ride a swine and who consequently got
left. Next a lady got on a chair and testified,
and there was a thud, a swish, a scream,
and two roars, and a pile of female and chair was
scattered on the floor. An elderly man came in
and said he wanted his daughter, and he was in-
formed that she was insensible in the coal-hole.
Tea was handed round, and a girl of 45 began to
Foream and jumped seven feet in the air. About
3.30 a.m. a burglar was saved, but when a police-
man came in and was saved also, he fled. The
prcc-edlrga closed wibh a collection.
* * *
Turmoil and litigation and bad language
have etsued in a Melbourne suburb all over tne
ownership of a he-cat with weak eyes and a
che *ed tail. Two maiden lad es, who live within
the throw of a flat-iron from each other, have
broken out into open warfare, and are fighting
with brloks and lawyers and half-crown sum-
monses and yard-brooms for the person of the
aforesaid scrubby feline with the mangled tail.
Meanwhile the cat preserves a neutral attitude,
and oversee =i the proceedings from a chimney,
where he has perched awaiting a settlement. Ha
is 18 next May, of an iron grey colour, walks with
a limp, and is a bit of a roue He watches the
elderly spinsters battling for his picturesque per-
son with a cjnloal smile, and is understood to
repose confidence in neHher—they both keep
hoarders.
* * *
p Unless the “Ladies’ Co'umn” of a fashion-
able paper is carefully edited, it Is better to leave
the miserable thing nut altogether. For instance,
a youth who does the dress gush for a N, Z jour-
nal recently supplied this to his high-toned female
readers, and most of them stopped the paper right
off:-
“ Suede gloves remain in favour, but fl.nnel undershirts
and woollen socks go high this weather ”
The human mind sits down to contemplate this
shock. Nearly 6000 refined females have been
informed at one most fatal go that socks go high,
and have had their attention drawn to flannel
undershirts by a paper which has long boasted
that it publishes nothing which is calculated to
bring a blush to any countenance. Naturally
enough therefore, they stopped their paper.
Socks are a subject that doesn’t pay when inserted
among the fashionable intelligence, and the un-
tutored journalist may lay an egg upon this fact
for future reference.
* * *
Baron Smith and a crowd of followers
went out the other day to swelter upon that
desolate stretch of shadeless gravel, the Sydney
Centennial Park, and the attentive S M. B erald
states that while there “Lord Carington made
many valuable suggestions which were at once
acted upoD, and showed a very earnest desire to
have the ceremony carried out In such a way that
the people generally w;uld be able to see all that
took plaoe.” From which we gather that the
Baron —through his secretary—has grasped the
idea that the people who pay Smith will kick if
they don’t get a chance to see Smith do his work.
It Is a beastly way the “lower orders” have.
• •
An economic Tamworth firm rather over-
reached themselves recently. They had a big
supply cf 1885 calendars on hand, and resolved to
play it low down on their confiding customers by
erasing the first and last numeral and letting them
stand as almanacs for ’BB. In this form they sent
them round with the usual Xmas bills, and the
scheme worked to a marvel, until one man dis-
covered that the first of January on the almanac
and the first of January according to local super-
stition didn’t eventuate on the same day ! This
shook public confidence in itself, and for a week
the township was crowded with excited agricul-
turists, wildly asking each other what day it was.
Those who had almanacs thought it was Sunday,
and shut up shop and went to church, while those
who had not a calender went nap that it was
Thursday or thereabouts and held a race meeting,
and encouraged a dog-fight opposite the sanc-
tuary and started an auction at the back, and got
drnnk all over the place. Things became so
mixed at last that the firm owned up to the econo-
mical deception, and the dazed citizens accepted
the explanation with tears of profound joy, and
went home enlightened.
* * *
Speaking of the bone and hide exhibits at
Hi e theatres, an American journalist sorrowfully
remarks that “ a white, round neck, with an ala-
baster base half ooncaaled by a coquettish collar,
is the most bewitching thing in the world ; but a
large expanse of bony shoulders, painted like a
patent ham, with its contiguous unprotected ter-
ritory, has about as many attractions as a newly-
painted Windsor chair.” And the worst of It is
that the ham female is so plentiful, and the one
with the alabaster neck is so wcef ally scarce.
* # *
From the Evening Noose :
Steady bachelor wishes to correspond with a loving orphan
or lonely lady, with means. Will be a kind husband. - ——-
Post-office, Park-st,
A lonely lady or loving orphan with means is a
delicate synonym for an unprotected female who
has no male relative at hand to kick a prowling
baohelor in the spine.
* * #
There’s a ladies’ Orange Lodge in Sydney.
Ib seems to us that the female who would allow
herself to be called an Orangewoman for the
privilege of being out la'e at night hasn’t very
much pride.
• * •
Weary policeman (leaning up against
foreigner’s apple-stall); “ Gape fer me, ye calico-
hided Oyetalhvn.” Appl 3-vendor gapes. Police-
man : “ Gape wider, ye shnake.” Apple-vendor
turns his head outside in. Policeman: “ It’s well
ye did, or I’d have run ye in for assaulting th
foDrce.” Fills his pockets with apples, and slowly
retires.
* # *
Refined child : “ Mamma, what is a casus
belli ?" Mother : ‘ ; My child, never speak of any-
thing bo indelicate. It is the Latin for stomach-
ache.”
* * *
It has somehow leaked out that one of
the rejected designs for the Centennial penny-
sticker was a kangaroo on the full jump with
Queen Victoria hanging on to its tail and
dragging behind. The sketch was instantly
scrunched up.
* * *
Young ladies with exalted Ideas and a
weakness for medical students, affect the blue or
brown veil cf the hospital nurse and imagine that
nursing consists of bathing aching brows with
perfume and gladdening their “innards" with
oalves’-feet jelly—until they try it. We don’t
mean the jelly—the nursing. The other day a
Bweet girl thing, cetat 19, fired with enthusiasm,
became a nurse in a certain Sydney hospital, and!
the first thing she was ordered to do was to wash
and prepare a Chinaman for burial. We don’t
know how long It took her to purify the follower
of Confuoius, but we do know that the girl’s ideas 1
of her dear, delightful profession aren’t preoiseljr
what they used to he She’s not quite bo enthu-
siast ic, as it were.
* * *
The proprietor of a skating rink In one of'
the Melbourne suburbs offered a prize for the
largest bat at a recent carnival, and the sweet
little thing who scooped the reward wore a oady
27 feet in circumference—the hat she u:ed to go
to the play in.
♦ * *
The Rev, Joseph Campbell, of Glen Innes,
N S.W., has been enioyiag a high old time in
England, but he has finally resolved to tear him-
The Masonic bores of Sydney to Carnarvon gave
a spree,
Anri the guzzle was a puzzle, and the fizz and
wines flowed free;
And the Karl told little stories about the Prince
of Wales,
While the bores sat round him listening to his
impressive tales.
He dilated on the gorges that the lofty Masons
get—
The wondrous feeds in Albert Hall, he d not for-
gotten yet,
And the flowing cup that sparkles on the Mason’s
board at home,
After which brief, weird statement he would back
to Tummy roam ;
And the gaping snobs got feeling that if Wal§s
were round about
He would call them “Jack” or “Jimmy," and
take them out and shout.
Then that wily Earl went homeward to the board-
ing-house of S-nith,
And chuckled as he pondered o’er the yarns he’d
stuffed them with ;
And the Masons, too, went homeward, pleased
with Carnarvon’s tales.
Saying “ Awfally good fellow, don’tyerknow, our
Brother Wales.”
“ Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown ”
(The words Will. Shakespeare’s are),
But now more restless princes lie them down,
Whose crowns don’t wear their hair !
And chief is he, that portly royal qu’z,
Known Alberb Edward as,
For he who truly heir apparent is,
No hair apparent has !
In vain wi*h stuff from Spanish files distilled,
He rubs that spot so tare,
The doctors humbly fear those roots are killed,
That nourished royal hair.
Oh. shocking ’tie but true, that Nature’s laws
For royal blood don't care,
Or else our portly prince had never cause
To mourn his vanished hair !


J. B. Pack's and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobaooo is
the moat deliolous smoke in the world, acknowled by all
onaolsseurs to be the most delicate In flavour. Prepared so
tt»t fie combustion is terfeot. Burns out to the last
partiole with t prre white ash Try it
Everybody gay*—and what everybody 8 ay a must be tiue—
that Pemell'i Snow-white Patent Roller Flour is tbe
beat In the market.*
Everybody should use Pemell’a latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It fs the greatest success of the
age.*
When next yo i bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Roller
Flour and yo <r bread will be aa white aa ant w.*
self away. He announces this fact In a three 1
quarter column “ad.” in the Glen lanes Exa-
miner, and puts in this to let) the congregation
know that he has teen moving in respeotable
floeiety during his sacerdotal bust
I had the honour of b in g elected a Fellow of the Geogra
phical Society of London : I have since been made a mem-
ber of the Falseontographical Society, and of the Royal
Agricultural Society of England. Prirces, earls, arch-
bishops. bishops, and deans have been amongst my numer-
ous hosts since I have been in England, but I have been
thus greatly honoured because of my country—my native
land—of which England’s people are so justly proud tand
so, dear people, you whose praise I have so loudly sung in
all assemblies in which I have taken part, have a share in
these honours which were paid to me—l am one of you.
Think noc that these things have spoilt me, lam as I was
When I left you, except that I am wiser.
The Rev. Joseph Campbell take 3 the same size of
hat as he used to do, and he hasn’t become stuck-up
through dining with earls. None of the apoitles,
by the way, ever dined with an earl, or If they
did they didn't put it in the paper—but then they
were an awfully common lot and not of much ac-
count.
* * *
The hall potter at the Alfred Hospital
(Melbourne) fills in his spare time, when he isn’t
yawning hideously at the front gats, by tying
down delirious female patients to their beds.
Generally he ties them so that the delirious female
is fixed, but the other day he fastened one rather
loosely and she got out of the window. It was a
drop of 18 feet to the ground, and when she was
picked up the was only a remains. Coroner Youll
then kicked up an offlr ial dust about the porter
being employed to maul females about, and the
jury, feeling they mtist slate somebody* and not
knowing whom to slate, brought in a verdict of
manslaughter against a man who knocked down
the deceased before she became a deceased, be-
cause she was going to England for the benefit of
her health without paying three half-crowns she
Owed him, which conduct led to her becoming de-
lirious and throwing herself out of the window
while the porter was yawning down below. This
seems rather a round-about verdict, but it was as
near as they could get.
# * *
When the Dook of Manchester was bossing
the railway banquet at Broken Hill, some wild,
untutored savages took a rise out of his old
nobility. It offended their ideas of the eternal
fitness of things to see the Dook sitting there in
all his majesty, looking that clean and haughty
you can’t think; a certain high-toned sneer hover-
ing round the ducal mouth, wounded them in
their tenderest feelings. So when the little pastry
kickshaws came on, a ’omy-banded leveller of
ranks and creeds suggested that it would be an
act cf poetic jus ice to spile the Dook’s shirt front.
Thereupon the company began to heave chunks of
jam-tart at Manchester, in ' he hope that he would
call them demned low-bred fellahs, and give them
just cause and reason for filling his boots with
blano mange. The Dock, however, heaped coals
of fire upon his persecutors by placidly flicking
the jam-tart off his front and pretending to think
that it had been chucked at the waiters. Popular
feeling then veered round in favour cf the noble
chairman, and when the first conspirator proposed
farther indignities, he was desired to “stow it,
and lam better manners.”
* * *
The enlightened aristocracy of the Mel-
bourne Club gave a heavy feed in honour of
“ Uncle” Normanby last week. Governor Loch,
the Marquis of Drogheda, and the Earl of Buck-
inghamshire gracefully consented to help punish
the vittles.
# * *
For the hrst time in its windy career the
Australian Natives’ Association is attracting some
measure of public attention. Two separate in-
dividuals wrote to a Melbourne paper on the same
day wanting to know what the Association was,
anyhow, and what kind of fowls were lodging on
its blessed branches. From this one may infer
that the Association is nearing its latter end. So
long as the wretched little bladder floated around
in a murky atmosphere of dim otscurity it was
safe enough, but now that it has become visible to
the naked eye of common-sense somebody will sit
on the bladder and bust it with a mild pop. Phil
Robinson was responsible for the nastiest jar yet
given to the A.N.A.’s promoters, wheD, after
banqueting on their chicken and champagne, he
coolly remarked that there appeared to be no
necessity for any such Associaticn.
The Natural History of Yankee
Adventurers.
The following is forwarded by an apparently
exasperated correspondent, and as a specimen of
a large, full-blown libel of the most comprehensive
type it is inserted in these columns for the amuse-
ment of mankind
Dear Bulletin, —The Yankee swindler is not
as his English brother in roguery. His Gil
Blaaism puts on a more plausible exterior, and he
is less of a conscious hypocrite. The Englishman's
scoundrel ism has a Soriptural basis, and his career
of deception is interrupted and illumined by occa-
sional flashes of rectitude which mar the con-
sistency of his viflainy. The Yankee is a man of
words, specious and well-Bcunding, with which
he disguises, iven to his own inner conscious-
ness, the dubiousness and ambiguity of his
designs. The Eoglish boy, when he leaves school,
is ever presented with a Bible, the American boy
with a dictionary, which through a Ufa of mingled
success and failure he never parts with. “Webster
Unabridged ” is the companion cf his BClitude and
the comfort of his hours of sadness and bereave-
ment. We do nob credit Mark Twain's account
of the fortunes and fate of that venerable vade
mccum of philology in the Big Tree region of
Calaveras county. It sounds too wildly impro-
bable. Webster is the saint of the parvenu, his
dictionary the bible of Yankeedom. Every digger
in Angel’s Camp—nay, from Jackass Gulch to
San Andreas—must have had one. Perhaps this
is Mark’s quiet, satirical way of poking fun at the
national propensity. Every properly constituted
American who travels carries his dictionary next
his heart, tied up in a bundle with a book of
toady-made speeches, a complete letter-writer, a
copy of the Lightnirg Calculator, a bundle of
tooth-picks, a bottle ot Joseph Balsamo's St. Cag-
lioBtro’s Mule Varnish, a looking glaBP, a pair
of spare sleeve-links, and some sulphate of morphia
and bromide cf potassium. The attire of the
American who resides abroad for the good of the
barbarians amongst whom he sojourns is fear-
fully and wonderfully made. The services of a
practical engineer are continually on draught to
keep him in order. His collar is fixed to his neck
by a patent coupling. His necktie is screwed on
to his shirt by a piece of intricate mechanism.
Sleeve-links o- solitaires keep his cuffs together,
but they are further prevented from wandering
from their proper adjustment by iron-girder i
which parallel his fore-arm. Evfn the radiant
bear’s-grease with which he burnishes his Pari-
sian cub h»ir is rivetted and copper-fastened to
his tyacinthine locks After landing from the
steamer with nothing but a carpet-bag moetly
full of samples, be dyes his moustache and per-
fumes his body, spreads to the adm’rlng gaziof
the ignorant or vulgar an acre or so of hot-pres3ed
shirt-front, garnishes hij expan five chest with
half a-dozen imitation diamonds as big as hazel-
nuts, girds up his loins with a league or two of
heavy gold-washed chain-cable, puts a dezsn or
more massive rings upon his forefinger,
straps down his beautifully-fitting trousers,
polishes his boots with bloater-pasbe, surmounts
his pomatumed curls with a sheeny belltopper,
lights his fragant Henry Clay “ seegar,” and
sallies forth to prey upon the ignorant native and
to spoil the unwary.
* # #
The American rogue is a Napoleonic creature
The magnitude of his operations is only bounded
by the ultimate limit of his credit. He finances
on the edge of a precipice, and floats bogus com-
panies to prospect an active volca 10 on the very
brink of a crater. His shop front covers an acre,
bub a step across the thresho’d lands you in tha
back-yard. He “ shouts ” champagne without
the price of the flz in his pocket, and airily tells
A RELIABLE OPINION.
TOURIST (log): “ WHAT DO YOU THINK 0? THE WEATHER!”
INHABITANT: “WELL, IT MAY KEEP FINK OR IT MAY RAIN. I OUGHT TO
KNOW, AS I’VE LIVED HERE 30 YEARS.”
the barmaid to remind him about it next time he
calls. He presents you wit h a gold watch worth
£lO and has you for £lOO. He calls you his
deareßt friend, and protesta that the one thing
which wonld make him supremely happy would
be the prospect of dying for you, while he is ccolly
helping himself to the very marrow of your life.
Republtcan on the surface, he is Royalist at heart,
and grovels to a lord for the sake of a dollar. He
sneers at English institutions, and smo hers his
plate glass with gold-lettering and armorial bear-
ings. He affects simplicity, and withers if not
within “000-ee” of all the effeminate ad-
juncts of a sybaritic luxuriance. He spreads his
life over a glittering surface of Btage tinsel, and
when he talks sentiment the brazen ring of his
grasping voice sounds like a cracked cow-bell.
He eats in a crowd, and picks h’s teeth
in the presence of the universe. His very
amusements are a sham, and subserve his
cunnlugly-eonoocted swindles. The skating-rink,
the surprise party, the spelling bee, the base ball
club, the buttering dinner—each in turn is mate
the medium of an advertisement. The American
adventurer’s strong point is advertising. For this
will he degrade the noblest sentiment 3 of human
nature, though we must in justice admit that he
is an unconscious sinner. Americans no longer
spit upon our material carpets, bub they are con-
tinually expectorating on our mental floor-cloth
and excoriating our sensibilities by malapropisms
of sentiment.
* * *
The adventurer’s wife is usually a
poor intellectually-atrophied creature with tiny
feet and small, useless hands, hair banged and
frizzed and arranged round her whice face in
what she calls —If she happens to be a swell—kiss-
curls ; if one of the mob, fpit curls. She has fol-
lowed the male schemer to Australia with a vir-
tuous intention of helping him in bia endeavours
to “teach us a thing or two,” ‘to open our eyes
a bit,” v liile, mayhap, ha rakes in a few of these
“dollars and cen’s” which are altogettur super-
fluous luxuries to people so ignorant of their use
as we are. She has the daintiest languid appear-
ance and a fresh brand of droopirg interest
for every oooaßion. Americans have a fondness
for iced drinks and take them In every possible
Interval, alternating snow water with boiling
coffee. Henca their gums resemble a grubbed
ridge after clearing operations by a bush settler.
To remedy these mo’ar ravages they fill their
mouths with hireling grinders and masticate their
corporeal nutriment with the dental apparatus of
their dead and defrauded enemies. The Yankee
adventurer who swoops down on Australia to
show the gum-suckers how to run a newspaper, or
to push that sovereign panacea for all the ills that
fleshisheir to—St. Cagliostro’s Mule Varnish—or to
stimulate the musical taates of a people to whom
he de ires to dispense the blessing 3 of a Huckle-
berry piano, finds a go'd-pkUel mouth of the
great'sb advantage in besines?. It is the out-
ward and visible sign of an inward and unseen
treasury. “Ah!” say the callow Australians,
“ This man has so much wealth that he plasters
his gums with gold. P. rhap3 he eats the miaey
out of his cash-box, and some of the sovereigts
get j immed between his teetb.” Bub Napoleon
Theophilus Smith Scudder and George Washing-
ton Potts Browner do not glitter una ded. Mrs.
N. T. Smith Scudder aud Mrs. G. W. Potts
Browner are also pressed Into the advtriismg
trade. ’Tis theirs to carry the blessings of the
Huckleberry piano, or the Tearandblazas sewing
machite into the sacred atmosphere aud
aristocratic environment of Darling Point and
Double Bay, aud to gladden the hearts of the ver-
dant with the specious hospitality that gleams
from a gold-plated phalanx of dead men’s ivories.
In “sassiety” the enterprising manufacturing
importer of the self-rectifying nutmeg annihi a'or,
which consumes its own smoke and converts the
dust into blocks of asphalt pavement, never ente s
but as the man who has some domestic connection
with the fragile and delicate piece cf American
femininity, who dresses so superbly and has such a
mass of brown, abundant hair, “ which she wea-s
dressed on the side, my dear, and looped up wifi
diamonds as large as walnuts.” When the
Yaokea adventurer is manied, he generally
allows his wife to run the advertising business in
“ safsiety,” while he devotes his attention to the
importunate needs of St. Cagllcstio. He takes
care, however, to fetch her away in the evening,
so that people may say, “Ob ! there Is Mrs.
Smith Scudder’s husband, the importer of the
celebrated lockjaw windov-fastener, vrhlob, ac-
cording to the advertisement, strengthens the
breath, sharpens the teetb, deadens the eyes,
cla-flies the stomach, adds another perfume to
the violet, and is invaluable in cases of
fright, apoplexy, sauer-kraut and wooden
legs. It saved the Countess cf Gugle-
bularimo’s life last spring, my dear, in
E . It is quite true, Mrs. Smith
Scudder told me all about it herself. Mr. Smith
Scudder fortunately hampered to be on the spot at
the time. A cockroach or a mouse, or something,
ran away with the Countess of Gcglebu’arimo’a
order of Si Gull the Idiot, and hid it in a soup-
tureen. Tne Countess expired in a spasm of terror.
Mr. Smith Scudder gave her one draught of his
celebrated “Lockjaw Window-fastener” —ad-
ministered it with a toasting-fork, because he
couldn’t get near her on account of her teeth —and
she was not only restored to life, but the order of
St. Gull the Idiot was recovered. There now ! ”
• • «
If Mr. Smith Scudc 1 er is possessed of “ dol-
lars” and cants” enough to pay h ; s way he will keep
house on his own account —always wi h an eye to
profitable adveit ! sing, Th n Mrs. Snith Scudder,
the lady of Napoleo i Thecphiiua Smi h Scudder
Esq., arranges the surpesa n-rtiea and “ bosses ”
tha preparation cf a thin, a very thin, entertain-
ment. She mamges all ihe surpd ej, and mani-
pulates all the buck-wheat and blu.kes quilting
operations. She spanks the piano with har dainty
little fingers $ like a petulant young mother
whipping asulky child, who’d be d first before
he’d cry. She sings, too. She has songs,
viz., “ Donna e Mobile,” “The Harp in the
Air,” and “ Hark, the Lark,” and she regularly
goes through the programme in a thin, reedy
treble like the quaver of a soprano hand-saw
when it i i being tormented by a file. She recites !
—this Is a note of admiration. Her repertoire is
limited here also, and “Lord Ullin’s Daughter,’
“ The Night Before Waterloo,” and “ Little Jim,”
about sum up the range of her memory in this
line. If she is encored, Bhe gives “ The Village
Blacksmith ” with a break down on the second
verse, and “ There, Napoleon, I told you haow it
would be. I knew I should break daown, an’t
was awl your fault. I’m real mad with you, any-
how. You ain’t niace,” Then poor Mrs. Smith
Scudder gives way to some other performer
anxious to inflict the dreary old song, or the
wrung-out, woe-begone recitative drivel that has
so often done duty before, and retires into a quiet
corner to captivate, with the sheen of her silk and
the sweetness of her smile, seme poor devil of a
journalist who is supposed to h&ve iofluence wi h
an uacaptured newspaper in which the Huckle-
berry hand-organ and the steam tooth-brush and
s msage-chepper have not had a show b.fitting
their monumental mer;t3. To this unlucky wight
she Ji'ps pret ily and confidentially and insinuates
a variety of things, some of which make her male
companion blush “ consume<l ly,” while she nibbles
complacently round the grazing-ground of the
positively naughty and forbidden. She is only
angling for an “ad.” to puah her hubby’s little
swindle, and if the victim bi eo will be amply re-
warded. Mayhap, she patters of literature and
mixes up in a bewildering melange the names of
“dear Dickens,” and “that darling Lytton," and
“ than real tart novelist Kirke White,” &c., &c.
She smiles to some purpose, however, when she
presides at the sumptuous spread of visitor-con
tributed provender, and presses her guests to try
the frozen soap and sugar suds wh'ch people have
got into the fashion of calling ice-cream. But
why pursue the poor little wretch any farther ?
She always plays her cards well, follows suit and
nets many a trick lor her partner whoso trick she
is careful never to trump. The bond of their
union is a mutual desire to do us “ good” and to
retura to the States in a year or so. with enough
of the “dollars and cents” to recompense them
for their exertions in the path of virtue, and to
set them up as gentlefolks in the alleged Demo-
cratic country they left a short time before as
“white rash.”
* *
Autolycu3 Beniamin Franklin Putnam, who is
not a married man, has to push the bound book
trade in “ society ”on his own account. He is a
lovely creature! He began life as an office-boy
in New York, and worked for a dollar a week. He
is no w worth thousands. He simply stuck to busi-
ness, dressed well, always smiled on a debtor, and
cursed a creditor from Sheol to breakfast. His
agents are everywhere. Afar on the limitless run
you stumble across the Yankee bound-book can-
vasser. He is übiquitous and omnipresent. He
parallels Providence. He enters a farm-yard to
be swallowed by the bull-dog, but re-appears
smiling in the township grocery, and manages to
talk the universal-emporium man—who had never
yet been caught by chaff—into making an ass of
himself for the first time in his life. The bound-
book agent is a fiend in human guise, who Ilea in
wait with a morocco binding and some gilt edges,
to persuade a man Into bujinga compilation of
blasted drivel that it would be insulting to the in-
tellect of a limpet to mention in his presence as
literature. But that bound-book agent, by the
aid of his hair-oil and watch-chain and shirt front
—backedupby ‘ Webster Unabridged"—can i»s the
business through, secures the victim's order, and
gets five miles away before the effect of his elo-
quence wears off, and the dupe feels mad enough
to choke himself with a Yankee imported
wooden nutmeg. The American swindler,
with his specious carney ani plausible
geniality, sucks the marrow out of every
country he visits. He is a well dressed
vampire—a civil-tongued ghoul that carries a
dictionary. He rigs fictitious sales, floats mythi-
cal mines, conducts imaginary companies and
pays illuttory dividends. He scorns to sand sugar
or to dust tea. He offers sand at an advanced
price, and proves its superiority to sugar by
advertised testimonials. His breath is a halo
which invests everything of which he speaks
with a golden atmosphere. He produces his
dictionary and the abandoned shaft becomes a
gold mine. He calls himself Joseph Balsamo,
the manufacturer of St. Caglicstro’s Patent Mule
Varnish, and people believe him to bethesaintbim-
self. He breathes into the ear of the compiler of
social chit chat, and 10, he takes his locale in the
“ sasslety ” of the place, and the columns of “ sas-
siety” papers, sacred to thB social movements of
Little Peddlington, bee:me the medium through
which he advertises the virtues of Dr. Snook’s
Galvanic Currycomb. We do not like this plausible
rogue. If we musb have rooks to pluck pigeons,
let us have the old gambling and racing, not the
stock-jobbing, share-broking, company floating
commercial type. After all, we prefer the
Scriptural scoundrel from England, with the
sacerdotal snuffle and the Biblical brigandage
peculiar to his kind. He, at least, affronts no one
with his expanse of licen and looks humble enough
to kick or to jump upon, and that appeases us.
Again, he is not too beautiful to live, being gene-
rally a snivelling chunk of d relict pie im. He
resembles a materialisation of spiritual insolvency,
and, as he usually shaves, the wife d esn’t rave
about his beautiful “ mustivey,” or compare his
diurnally-barb?red locks to our own bald pate.
Yes, give us the hypocritical woe-begrimed Eng-
lish swindler and we’ll eat him. But not all the
wealth of Pactolus, with El Dorado and Ophir
and Golconda thrown in, and ail the jewels stored
in the Hall of Eblis added to indues a bargain,
would tempt us to touch a molecule of the human
rat-poison that dumps itself down on Australian
shores with its consignment cf jim-iams and cure-
alls and clap-traps and trade-fooleries in its seal-
skin waist coat-pocket. If we must be diddled,
let u 3 be diddled by something less like a cross be-
tween a Choctaw and a Chinaman. — Skotos.
Not long ago we heard a fellow recounting
his experiences as a quack-doctor, in the N.S.W.
back blocks, and how he worked the business. He
used to hire a chemist to write out prescriptions,
then rent a cottage in a country town, and square
himself with the local pill-puncher. Ensconced
in the house, he would sit in a darkened room,
made up in a melodrama cloak, and as an African.
Vwo “ buttoners,” one with his arm in a sling,
and the other lame, would stand outside th a
shanty, and when a country “ gawk ” came along
they would rope him in, crack up the quack, and
learn all the particulars of the gawk’s complaint.
Then one “buttoner” would slip inside, give the
ducktet the tip, telling him “tha bloke had a
pain in his bingie,” or somewhere else, then exit
by the back way. The quack would then go to
the front door, sing out “next!" return to his
room followed by the gawk. Quack would seat
himself, and assume an air of pondering mystery,
take hold of the gawk’s hand, mutter to himself,
aud thea inform his dupe all the “buttoner” had
already told him. He would then charge three
guineas, and write out oae of the readied-up pre-
scription!, tha essential parts of which were
Epsom Salts. This narrative is dedicated to Dr.
Creed with the assurance of its being the bald,
truth.


TM ■A T R B KOI A I.
Under the Dlreotlon of
Messrs, WUliamaon, Garner, and Masgrove.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Lazar,
GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ROBINSON CRUSOB
or
Harlequin and the King of the Cannibal Islands.
Prices: —Dress circle, 5 s.; Scads, 3s; Circle, Is.
CRITERION THEATRE,
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
LAST 3 NIGHTS
LAST 3 NIGHTS.
REMEMBER LAST 3 NIGHTS REMEMBER
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD.
LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD
The most Phenomenal Revival on record.
SATI RGAY, JANUARY 28,
FORTY THIEVHS,
In which the popular and talented comedian,
MR. ROBERT BROUGH,
will make his re-appearance after recent illness.
Box plan in the Office of the Theatre where
seats may be reserved from 10 to 4.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7.; Performance 8.; Carriages 10.30.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, 55., 3a,, 25., Is.
Box Plan at Nicholson s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager,
O
PE R A
Corner of York and
Frank Clark
HOUSE.
King Streets.
... Losses,
BUT
THREE.
fLAST
4 LAST
(LA.ST
NIGHT')
isriGH r [■
NIGHT J
but
THREE.
The
GREATEST CENTENARY BILL
GREATEST CEN I’ENARY BILL.
FRINK M. CLARKS
ALL-STAR NOVELTY COMBINATION.
FIELDS and HANSON, ia another new act,
All! LEI’ ME SEE.
ANOTHER NEW FIRST PART.
Performance at 8 sharp ; terminates aa 10.20.
Admission—ls., 35., and Is.
Box plan at Nicho'son's.
MONTY BROWNE, Manager.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barringtoa.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OiT ALL
THE WONDERFUL,
THE ASTONISHING
ELECTRICAL AUTOMATON..
This Grand Favourite Retort of the People.
This Grand Emporium of Eccentricities.
NIGHTLY CROWDED
TO SEE our NEW ACTS, NEW FACES,
NEW SPECIALTIES.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; Baloony, 6d.
THE AU3TR iLI IN JUVENILE
Giant Family
■Will be on Exhibition during Centennial Week
EGYPTIAN HALL, GEORGE-ST.,
Opposite the Market.
CLARA, aged 14 years,
Weighs 28 3t.
TOM, aged 9 years,
Weighs 12it. 81b.
ANNA, aged 8 years,
Weighs list. 21b.
<QPEN DAILY. PRICE OF ADMISSION, 63.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUILDING
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
>Finest collection of Fish and Seals In Australia.
.ENTERTAINMEN PS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is.
IBOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
"GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
o» Well-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Conduotorship of Mr, Chas. Austin.
Grounds, la. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
ASHFIKLD RECREATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
■OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING.
SKATING. SKATING.
SKATING. SKATING.
'The largest and finest Skating Rink in the
Colony. Large stock of new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admlssisslon J GRAND STAND and GARDEN
TALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds Illuminated by Electric
Light.
’ ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
Alhambra music ha l
George-streefc, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING ab 7.30,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performed, 38 Performers.
Under the Coaduecorship of Mr. Chaa. Austin.
Sittings aa Usual.
A Qo ja Night's Sport
Can always be had at
FOLEY'S ATHLETBO HALL,
LARRY FOLEY, the King of Australian
Boxers, now retired, personally looks after
the comfort and amuaement of hla patrons.
Something good on every week. For particular,
see future announcements.
Instruction given in the noblest of manly sports
each day at rates within the reaoh of all who
deMre a knowledge of the soicnoe of sslf-defenoe,
Classes now open,
When in Sydney, nr you mjbe Fount's top
Havn not been the city.
PSALMS.
(REVISED).
HEAR this, all ye people, and give ear all ye
invalids of the world, bell’s bitters wil*
make you well atd to rejoice.
2. It shall cure all the people and put slokness
and suffering under foot.
3. Be thou not afraid when your family Is
sick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell’s bitters will cure you.
4. Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of bell’s bitters for bilious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints.
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and I shall
have robust and blooming health.
6 Add disease upon disease and let the worst
come, I am safe if I use bell’s bitters.
7. For all my life have I been plagued with
sickness and sores, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell’s bitters
8. He that keepeih his bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
9. Though thou hast sores, pimples, freokles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blocd poisoning, yet bell’s
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman Is there, feeble and sick from
female complaints, who desireth not health and
useth bell’s bitters and is made well,
11. Let not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver complaints.
12. Keep the tongue from being furred, thy
blood pure, and thy stomach from indigestion by
using bell’s bitters,
BOTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES & QUEENSLAND.
A Great Problem.
—Take all the Kidney and Liver
Medicines,
—Take all the Blood purifiers,
—Take all the Rheumatic remedies.
—Take all the Dyspepsia and indigestion
Cures,
—Take all the Ague, Fever, and bilious
specifics,
—Take all the Brain and Nerve force
revives,
—Take all the Great health restorers.
In short, take all the best qualities of all these
and the — best
— Qualities of all the best medicines in the
world, and you will find that—Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters have the best curative qualities
and powers of all— concentrated in them.
—And that they will cure when any or all o
these, singly or— combined. Fail till
—A thorough trial will give positive proof of
this.
Hardened liver.
Five years ago I broke down with kidney and
liver complaint and rheumatism.
Since then I have been unable to be about at all.
My liver became hard like wood ; my limbs were
puffed up and filled with water.
All the best physicians agreed that nothing
could cure me. I resolved to try Hop Bitters ; I
have used seven bottles ; the hardness has all gone
from my liver, the swelling from my limbs, and it
has worked a miracle in my case ; otherwise I
would have been now in my grave.
J. W. Morey, Buffalo, Oct. 1, 1881.
Poverty and Suffering.
" I was dragged down with debt. poverty and suffering for
years, caused by a sick Lundy and large bills for doctoring.
I was completely discouraged, uutil one year ago, by the
advice of my pastor, I commenced using Dr. Soule m American
Hop Bitters, and in one month we were all well, and none
of us nave seen a sick day since, and I want to say to all
poor men, you can keep your families well a year with Dr
Soulo's American Hop Bitters for less than one (loots
visit will cost. I know it."
A Workingman,
MT None genuine without a bunch of green hope
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in
the bottle. Bnwakh of all the vilepoleonous stuff
made to Imitate the above
SMOKE AND OHEW
UHTuiIOT
TOBACCO.
MADE OF THE FINEST AMERICAN
LEAF.
The largest and best plug sold in
the colony for 6d.
6
&
N AV'f
CUT TOBACCO?.
On reoeipfc of P. O. Order for £1 Is. we will
Immediately forward 31bs. VULCAN MIXTURE
In Jib. Packets, noted for its fine flavour, together
with a SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR PIPE in
case. And a nioe TOB ACCO POUCH.
THE SMOKERS' CHRISTMAS BOX.
consisting of
SILVER MOUNTED BRIAR
or
MEERCHAUM PIPE,
and
£lb. finest AMERICAN LONG CUT RUBY,
sent to any part of the colony upon receipt of
P. O. Order or stamps for 10s. 6d.
TO LOVERS OF A GOOD CIGAR.
Send your orders to us. and get a box of
REAL GOOD SMOKERS, for 10s. od.
Carriage free to any part.
GIVE US A CALL
When doing George-street, and you will find we
have the largest and best assortment
of
TOBACCOS, CIGARS, PIPES, TOBACCO
POUCHES, PURSES, MATCH BOXES,
and
All other articles apertaining to the trade.
PRESENTATION WALKING STICKS.
COME,
If only to inspeot these. We have almost every
kind of stiok obtainable, from the
stately
SILVER HEADED MALACCA
to the lowly
BAMBOO.
Varying In prioe from 6d. to Al Is.
TO HAIRDRESSERS.
Your trade requirements,
OUR SPECIAL STUDY.
Send to us for anything you want in your line.
We can furnish you with every requisite
from
A HAIR CUTTING COMB
to
an American, or any other
HAIRDRESSERS CHAIR.
We reoommendjyou to send for one of our razors,
PLUM BRAND,
set ready for use. Manufactured expressly
for
HAIRDRESSERS.
N.B.—Hair made up in any design,
OWEST PRICES, WITH DESPATCH.
CM ID AITELH,
Tobacconists' and Hairdressers*
Sundrymen,
680 & 682 GEORGE ST.,
Between Liverpool and Goulburn streets.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
OUT THE ADDRESS OUT.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S, England,
Port Adelaide, October 30 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row's D anelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver oomplaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
ourative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver oomplaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
ows
EMBROCATION.
3/6
>IM
OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT In the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, It may
be as well to let them know that there is each an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you} ’
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &0.,
L. P SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others, and equalled by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
“I, GEORGE HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sincerely declare as follows
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called TNrm
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water,
and I hope others suffering from the Bame com.
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT
~ _ . . ,_ . . 215 Pitt-street.
Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, befo'
me,
“(Signed) Wm. Henderson. J.P.”
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STRANR
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW ROW and COMPANY.


Centrally
situated
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TO All THELEADMC
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
ISBANe
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OFTHE.
EQUATOR
"om
[OSS 3 -
3.
i/Olti
‘f?sZ7Tvj77/Hniy±
')i
40
t
Ls.
LL
(
sms;
®sJ
i*
S 3
tejJl
iiiltii
-
eSFM£«
•'-v
It n
cJTDANiELi.
is
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH AIL THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS &c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Bentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths, fe COMMERCIAL RUUffl.
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Beading, and Corresponding Room. All Letter, and Telegram, applying for Apartment, will receive prompt attention.
C. H. DANIELL.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
Victoria.
THE CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
is the most fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every Convenience and Attention.
First-clas3 Hotel Service. Accommodation for
200 Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
k i faring & Hi.,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THK PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
30 years’ experience as a Public Caterer is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public
Baths. Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
J. I. B, Sftiring,
PROPRIETOR.
This BEER
awarded at
Adelaide Ex-
hlblblon First
Fries Gold Medal,
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
ZEIIZDX XSTBTXIRGOH-
R. CUNYNOHAME, Bond-street, Sydney.
In balk
and case.
Best BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OE TST.S.W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, &c., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
de Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense la spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors oomfonable, and her Hotel the best in the Colony.
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN REACH M A EL'S.
Wavei ley Hotel,
Gollins-Place, Gollins-Street East,
(MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisioe Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
ROLLER
SKATES.
VJZ
ROLLER
SKATES.
2000
PAIRS in stocK. Best Skate ever
imported to Anstralia. The
celebrated “WINNER" RO LER SKATES,
complete with all recent improvements. Adopted
by the leading American Rinks for reason of their
Perfect ao' ion. Durability, Lightness, and Ele-
gance. Intending purchasers should order now
for next season, before lines are broken. For sale
to Rinks and Dealers in lots to suit, at prices that
defy competition, by the manufacturers. MUNCIE
ROLLER SKATE CO., 205 Clarence-street, Sydney
CRITERION HOTEL, N ARRANDERA, N.B.W.
First-class Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train
J. E. PATTERSON,
Proprietor
Good Sample Rooms.
TO PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
U you want anything In Sydney, send to
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
GKEHMEif&.A.IL! AGBISTTS,
OF
323 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
The Introduction of New Lines and Patents a
Speciality.
*m» BKroRB Moustache and Whiskers. >efohs >
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did thin,
a »(J will do it on either bald
head or bare fare- Forres
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
—— 4 week* and never/ail* .90,MX) ‘ .
Copyrighted. young men already wear full Copyrighted,
beards, having used Ito 3 pkte. No injury, easily applied, certain
in effect. Packets, le. fti. each, 3 for 3s, fid., post paid, sent under
cover, free from observation. Address, Frank BonirftM, Sole Agent,
Box no. Q.r.0,, Sydney, N.S. IV.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed onthe gciplM.
Large and well ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Bes* oi^
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most Hydraul > Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CURTIN,
HEAD
“The Lithgew Enterprise,
AND
“ Australian Land Rationaliser.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
IT Is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. Its
object is to firmly inaugurate in Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform— to do
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any country paper in the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and induce others to do so. Everybody interes ed in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER ANNUM.
AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GIVEN. SEFD FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
ClgT©*X ID “
(Next Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipe?.
R. CLIFFORD,
OASTLERE AGH STREET,
of jSydneg,
• jenolmtca ves. bluejmoun tains~&
BI633EMCE 8$ IrowtNMuMUi^CP.Qk
Everybody i
SHOULD USKJ
PEMELL’t
EXTRA SUPERFIWI
FLOUB!
IT IB MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in ft Mill ceplete with ohe newest And. most approve c
N«w Pnooinißi M*chim»«.
T&i PRICK In VERY LOW. and tshe QUALITY
Ift GUARANTEED VERY GOOD,
VICTOR** ft *-'• O w Ml h i
831 Gjcobge street, Sydney.
DR. TUKE, M.R.C.S,
England.
Sand for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases ; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Dr, TUKE guar utoes a
thorough and permanent cure in every case under-
taken, after consultation, by letter os? in person.
Consultation costs nothing, and the Doctor will
tell you at once whether your case is ourable or
not. Address-
Dr. TUKE, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
7 Spring-at., Sydney.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD.
Situate upon the Great Sauthern Line of Railway
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta-
tion, and less than two miles from Menangle
Station, divided by the Nepean River (to
which it has nearly two miles frontage) from
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AJHEA, 2063 ACRES.
TITLE. TORREh S’ ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., in
consequence of his intended departure from the
colony, to submit to auotion, at their rooms, 130
Pitt street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April,
at 11 30, the above
magnificbnt freehold estate.
MOUNT Gls EAD is distant from Sydney only
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes’
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellent
metalled road. The property is unique in charac-
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de-
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highly im-
proved properties ever submitted for sale in the
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleared
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving only
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park-
like appearance, resembling an English Country
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPEAN
’ RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE S RIVER.
MAQNIFR ENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUdE.
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings,
stables, granaries, hiiltard-room, underground
tanks, &0., &a. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards,
&c, Elevation above sea level about 600 ft.
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains.
%*lt being impossible within the limits of ad-
vertisement to do justice to a property like
MOUNT GILEAD, a descriptive ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate will ba submitted in one lob, and
should the proprietor fail to obtain a price com-
monsurato with the value of the property, it will
then be submitted as par Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 50 ACRES to 400 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspect at any time upon
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALE.


THE CENTENARY.
Sydney En Fete.
NOT as Rip-van-winkles, or any other cen-
turian sleeping herds, do we arise ; but es
members of AN ALWAYS ACTIVE community,
we place our claims before the public for their
support and consideration.
WE ARE THE PREMIER STEAM MANUFAC-
TURERS OF THE COLONY.
IN BEDDING we have 73 Carding and Curling
and Twisting Machines, and 12 Mattress-makers.
IN UPHOLSTERY we have 13 Machines, 19
Benches, and 29 Men.
IN UPHOLSTERY a- d BEDDING we have 25
Machinists, and 11 hand-sewing Upholtresses, or
36 in all.
IN STEAM CABINET and JOINERY and
FR AMES we have the Drying Yards, the circular
and straight Saw-pits, 16 Saws, Lathes, and Cross
Cutters, and 27 Men.
ONE HUNDRED AND FOUR hands actively
engaged manufacturing in the FURNISHING
DEPARTMENTS.
No brag or blow, or clap-trap advertising neces-
sary after a recital of such plain facts as the forej
going.
WHETHER AS WHOLESALE OR RETAIL
PEOPLE we stand the occupiers of the PRE-
EMINENT POSITION, and, indeed, have few
competitors in these special branches, in either
the old or new countries.
Take Bookcases, we do them
~ Chests of Drawers ~
„ Wardrobes
„ Cheffoniers
„ Safes
, Tables
, Pier Glasses
from £4 10 to £2O
„ £1 5 „£6 10s
~ £5 ~ £2O
£2 2 s 6d., to any price
„ lls 6d to 20s
~ 13s 6d to £l7
„ 15s to 20s
, Drawing-room Suites ~ £8 10s to £37 10s
, pining ~ ~ ~ ~ £5 15s (o £75
, Chairs, from 2 3 51, 2a 9d, 3s 6d, to 153
And after perusing the above brief summary be
sure you bear in mind the OLD, OLD, OLD
HOUSE for Bedsteads and Bedding.
Who ran compete with us ?
Who can touch U 3 ?
In quantity and quality we are clipper built,
and, in the language of marine insurance, A 1 AT
LLOYDS.
See our Stretcher Chair Bedsteads, at 12s 61
to 10s.
See our S rstcher Chair Bedsteads, with
Cushions, at 21s to 755.
See our Mosquito Curtains, at Is 61, 5s 6d,
7s Od, to 16s 61.
See our Dimity Hanging*, at 35s to 603.
See our Beautiful Bra* s-m-ranted Bedsteads, at
25s to £l7.
See our Wire Matrees?s, at 15 3 6d to 50s.
See our Kapok Matresses, at 20s to 60s.
See our Hair Matrenses, at 10 s to 953.
See our Palliasses, at 6s Od to 153.
LAWLERS HOUSEHOLD COMPANION or
ILLUSTRATED FURNISHING and OUTFIT
GUIDE can be had free on application by post.
FAMILIES WILL SAVE POUNDS IN THE
COURSE OF A YEAR BY IT.
Visitors to Sydney will miss a sight if they omit
to walk through the SHOWROOMS of the
CENTRAL EMPORIUM,
608 GEORGE-STREET.
OUR IMMENSE CARPET and FLOORCLOTH
SHOWROOMS are heavily stocked with the
newest and best goods procurable.
See the Mats, Is 61 tJ 3s6d each.
See the Rugs, 6s 61 to 703 each,
Sae the Carpets, Is 31 to 7s 6i per yard
See the Curtains 33 61 to 63i per pair.
See the Floorcloth, 4d to 4s 61 per yard.
IRONMONGERY, GLASSWARE, CHINA and
E ARTE HN WARE receives our constant atten-
tion. /
Exquisite Dinner Services, 24s 6d, 32s 6d, 455,
70s*
Beautiful Breakfast Sets, 19s 6d, 22s 61, 27s 6d,
Cruets, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 61,10 s 63, 12s 61, l<s 6d,
255, 353.
Kuive3 and Forks and Spoons at any price.
Town and Country supplied, and at shortest
D Take Lawler s BOOTS and SHOES home with
you and save money.
Take Lawler’s MERCERY home with jou and
save money.
Take Lawler’s HATS home with you and save
iey.
ike Lawler’s TOWELS and SHEETING home
i you and save money.
ake Lawler’s LADIES LOVuLY CORSETt)
i 9 with you and save money.
ake Lawler s LADIES’ GLOVES home with
you and save money.
Take Lawler’s DRAPERY home with you and
save monf y.
Tike Lawler’s TABLE COVERS home with you
and save money.
Make a special point of yisiting LAWLER’S
whilst down for the Centenary, and you will be
well pleased with your purchases.
All who buy
BETWEEN NOW and the 31st of JANUARY
will have an interest in
LAWLER’S CENTENNIAL CASH GIFTS
of
£5O, £2O, £l5, £lO, £5.
LAWLER’S,
STZ DJSn&TT.
The people of Auckland found the Marquis
of Drogheda a most uninteresting personage. He
would not go to see the big dock, he did nob think
the view from Mount Ed an worth the climb, and
he refused point blank to purchase Kauri gum
ornaments, and photographs of the Las:e district.
Dread of missing coaches and steamers seemed to
make his life a perpetual burden.
Those Yankees are the cheekiest cusses
this side of the Styx. They will allow Beach £lOO
to go to Yankeeland to row Teemer, or they will
accept £2OO and send Teemer to Australia. How-
ever, Beech has retired, and unless Henlan takes
the Championship away with him, it strikes us
very forcib'y that the modest Yankees will have
to send to Australia if they want the honour, and
pay their own expenses at that.
/
ViL
'
vf;
<0
H
THE LAST ROSE OF SUMMER.
An awful phenomenon is on view ab Kan-
garoo Point, Brisbane. The street in which two
local aldermen live is the worst kept in the
borough l This strange intelligence is sworn to
by a parson and an insurance agent, so we must
reluctantly accept it.
It is a Bold Statament
To say that any Medicine is “never known to
fail, 1 ' but it is stated emphatically by the pro-
proprietors of dk. bull's (Kidney and Liver)
bitters The mei icine is a specific for diseases
of tbe kidneys, liver and bladder, and has a re-
putation of thirty years’ standing.
Gloomy forebodings. Sleeplessness, Violent Headaches,
Nervous Irritability, and Heart Palpitation all arise trom a
disordered Liver, and ratuies own remedy is secured in
Dunmtose’h Compound Essence of Dandelion and
Liver Pills. Instant relief, and speedy and permanent
cure. Pleasing to the taste. Is aleo a ceitain remedy fj-
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Lumb .go. Wrapped with
each bottle are copies cf testimonia’s which wiilc nvincathe
moat sceptical. Danstone's C mpruind Eesence of Dande-
lion, ss. p°r bottle; Liver Pills, Is. par box. Wholesale
agents : Elliott Bros., Ltd , Sydney.
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-3treat Arcade.*
Tattersall's Monster Corsultatims —Anniversary Handi-
cap, run January 28th instead of 26'.h, 1888. £OOO Subecri-
i ers at £1 each. First Horse, £1000; Second, £300: Third
£2OO. Starters, £250; Non-starters, £250; to be divided
amongst them. Anniversary Handicap, run Ja ’ uary 28.1888.
10 000 Subscribers at £1 each. F rst Hor» e, £5000; Second,
£2uoo ; a hird. £lOOO. Starters, £1000; Non-starters. £lOOO ;
to be divided amongst them. The Carrington February
Grand Handican to be run at Carrington Ground, Februaiy
18ch. to 25th, 1888. 5000 Subscribers at £1 each First Man,
£2000; Second, £750; Thud, £500; Fourth, £250; Starters,
£750; Non starters, £750; to be divided amongst them
Address, “Tattersall,’ case of Mr. G. Adams, Tattersall’s
Hotel, Sydney.*
William's Australian Insecticide is death to allinsects
Simple in application—su eln effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being ceitain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
dest uctive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemist 3 and
storekeepers. Manufactured cnly by W. Williams,
Pharmaceutic* 1 Chemist, 257 King-street., Newtown. Wh le-
sale from Mess-s Elliott Bros , and E. Prosser & Co.*
A FOOL ONCE MORE.
‘ For ten years my wife was confined to her bed with such
a complication of ailments that no doctor could tell what
was the matter or cure her. and I used up a sm»ll fortune in
humbug stuff. S.'x months ago 1 saw a IT. S. flag, with Dr.
Soule’s American Hep Bitters on it, and i thought I wou d
be a fool once more. I tried it, but my folly proved to be
wisdom. Two bottles cured her, ihe is now as well and
strong as any man s wife, audit cost me only two dollars.
Such tolly pays —H. W., De-.riot, Mich.—" Free Press ”
Sir Griffith, of Queensland, has a brother
who runs a mean little suburban rag in Fitzroy,
Melbourne. This gives Paalmyell something to
fall back upon. When Queensland throws h'm
over, he can go down to Victoria and turn the
printing machine.
HONORED AND BLEST.
When a board of eminent physicians and chemists an-
nounced the discovery that by combining some well known
valuable remedies, the most wonderful medicine was pro
due d, which would cure such a wide range of diseases that
most all other remedies could be d sprnsed with, many were
sceptical; but proof of its merits by tctual trial has dispelled
all doubt, and to-day the ditcoverers of that great medicine,
Dr Sou e's American Hon Bi ters, are honored and blessed
by all as benefactors. '• Demociat.”
A Good Remedy for. a Cold —On going to bed take a
dose of Freeman’s Ghlorodyne, either in v, ati r or campho>
miiture The diaphoretic action of this excellent remedy
speedily produces a general glow, followed by a free perspira-
tian, during which the pulse improves in character from a
feeble to a full, elastic one, a good night’s sleep is obtained
and on waking in the morning the co d will be found to have
disap pearered. The certainty of the action of Freeman’s
Chlorodyne is very remsrkable in Ague; it frequently pre-
vents an attack, or, failing this, reduces the violence of the
ague fit to a minimum. In many countries Freeman s
Chlorodyne has entirely superseded the use of Quinine, and
in the tea gardens cf India no'hing else is given for Agu
and other iorms of Fever. A Physician writes, “In a sub
tropical climate, such as New South Wales, Freeman s
Chlorodyne is simply invaluable ’’—Sold every where through-
out the Colon ins. Insist upon having “ nreeman’s" only.
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an
Elephant.
Chronic Couchs, Cot ds Bronchitis and pulmonary
Troubles can be cured by scotts Emulsion of Pure
Cod Liver Oil with Hypophosph ites. We have absolute
proof cf ihis from all sections of the world. Ic is as palatable
as milk Try ft before it is too late. “Gentlemen:—l th ; nk
it is only fair to yoa to say that my wife had been laid up a
month with a very sharp attack of bronchitis, courlea with a
very di-itrcsaiDg cough >hrou«h pulmonary affection of the
lungs, and the cough had bee ime so troublesome that she
was ec vcely able to obtain two hours rest in succession. I
obtained a bott.ie of ‘Scotts Emulsion,’ which gave her
immediate re lief, and sit bottles have restored her to her
usual state < f health. lam gentlemen, yours truly,
February 17th 1886. Geo. Faulkner,
Timekeeper Hallamshire Works, Sheffield.
Large and small sizes sold by all chemists.
Insurance.
Insurance la a goed thing, whether applied to life
or property. No less a blessing is anything that
insures gcod health. Dr bell's (Kidney and
Liver) bitters do this. It is nature’s great
remedy. It is a mild but effioient cathartic, and
acting at the tame tin e on the liver, kidneys and
bowels, it relieves all these organs and enables
them to rerform their duties perfectly. It has
wonderful power.
&£
'6-0 T
□
.jIRGEST
tn the (jlony
SYDNEY.
BEFORE TAKING.
FROM LIFE.)
“ A uiery rheart death good like a Mediclne.”~Prowr6s 17-c, 22 v.
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZECf IRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food It has no eqo al. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cureß Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makas the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilerating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drioking.
Price 3s. 6d„ from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the Manufacturer, W. F. CAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitations, Take no Substitute,
AFTER TAKING.
(from mfb.)
THE HEAT WAYE
Whioh is now passing over the colony reproduces
for the benefit of the student of human nature
most of the old familiar antics of a dead and
buried past, just brightened up here and there
with some fashionable novelty which can only be
asorlbed to the Centennial celebrations. Still, as
of yore, does the stout party avail himself of the
shady refuge of the street corner, while he re-
moves his hat, mops his oleaginous forehead with
the handkerchief of a vanished generation, and
snorts liVe the playful dugong the while he an-
athematises the weather and splits the stream of
trafflo into many small rivulets. Still does the
diaphanous virgin, whose lovely form is apparently
only held together by a ribbon sash, poke her
parasol into the eyes of the wicked man, or knook
the hat of the righteous under the fest of the
prancing ’bus-horse in the effort to preserve her
beauty from getting too suddenl j ripe in the sum-
mer sun of ths queen city And, “ surely as the
summer day," does the maje3tio matron come
along with her little clothes-bißket of many
corners and charge through the crowd with her
shoulders set, her testh gritted, and a halo of
moisture arouud her. She, too, carries a gamp,
but the complexion of her youth is in the same
boat with the light of other days, and the princi-
pal use of the weapon is to clear the path of
obstacles. With an umbrella held firmly across
the body at an angle of 45, and either end pro-
jecting about 61n. beyond the shoulder, a deter-
mined woman can do more damage in a street
crowd in one hour than all her male relatives
armed with regulation lat ces could do in a week.
Bub they are all suffering from the heat, and to
that fact principally must be ascribed their varied
eccentricities. The cool, calm, self-possessed
people in this fine sunny weather, the people who
seemingly monopolise all the bloom and vigour of
youth, are the people who are wise in their genera-
tion, deriving bsnefib from the wisdom and ex-
perience of others who know more than they do.
These people drink Clausen’s New York Cham-
pagne I ager Beer and learn therefrom the eeoret
o! looking and feeling fresh and invigorated when
all else is wilted into discomfort under the breath
of the northerly furnace blast. Claus n is kept
on ice at all the leading hotels for the benefit of
suffering humanity.
mmM
as
2XL&E
s
■WHITE • EXQUISITELY PERFUMED * PURE.:
TOILET
TOO MUCH CARE
cannot be taken in the selection of toilet soaps.
COLGATE and C O S are the best. Try Cashmere
Bouquet.
w
%
3*
The price of the genuine WATERBURY
WATCH is 13s. 6d. Watches said to be “ Water-
bury s" are sold at a lower figure.
Remember this, if you want at any time to
have your Waterbury repaired at a nominal cost
at the Waterbury Watch Depot, 56. Margaret-
street.
If you use pencils for any sort cf work, use
Dixon’s American Graphite. They are the very
latest development of scientific skill in wood and
lead.


Irn-poxtarLt I
Good News to Lovers of Music.
IMMENSE REDUCTIONS!
the oisru.'sr
HISICALISSTMMEIT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
GEORGE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
Beg to Inform their many patrons and the public
that as the duty on Instruments terminate on
Sept. 30th j they will sell
CHEAPER THAN EVER!
Q
ACCORDEONS, at 7/8, 10/6. 12/6. IS/-, 17/6, 21/-
25/-, 30/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality i Patent steel noted Accordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
•• Patent German Silver Reeded Ao-
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
(6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/8, 21/-, 26/-,
80/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lachenal Anglo German 35/-
„ ~ steel notes ... ... 50/-
7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
peoialty: Old oopy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
b/-, 7/8, 10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/8, 20/-, 25/-, 80/-,
up to £l2 12s.
Speciality i Walter Howard Model Nickel Banjo,
60s.
1/6, 8/8, 5/6, 6/6, 7/8, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10a.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality i S-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in oase,
by best English maker, for £2 10s.
Bole Agents in Australia
vos
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
10M TIU STMS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 8/-, 8/8,4/-, 4/6,
S/■ and 5/8 a set,
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d„ and Is. each,
Sliver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. eaoh
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola, Double Bass, Harp,
Zithar, &c., &c.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all Instru-
ments oarefully paoked and sent to any part of
tke colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post,
P,Q. Orders to be made payable to
674
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
GEORGE STREET.
7/ u/m
■
m*>A
I
JEcaema on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FEOM
Scrofula on Neck*
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
Loathsome Sores, and every species of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
litic Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Loss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Cuticuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticura Soap, the
great Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, Washerwoman’s Itch,
Itching Piles, and Delieate Irritations peculiar
to both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
with Cuticuba Soap and a single application of
Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
daily, with three doses of Cuticuba Resolvent,
will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Scalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
with Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
have been obliged to shun public places by reason
of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
sicians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and goi
no relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbalian Consi&neeb,
at. Towns & Co., New South Wales.
CUTICURA RESOLVES , the new Blood Puri-
Her, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henco
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticnra, the Great Skin Ctire (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Bores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hndr, and beautifies the Skin,
Cuticnra Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies 1
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun°
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin,
Cuticnra Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
SLKj. Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing 4c; p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared by the
Potter bro(t ft Chemical Co., Boston. Tt « -
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LICHTNER and Co.,
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
IN calling attention to their extensive stock of Photographic Instruments, Chemicals, and all
necessary appliances for the use of Professional and Amateur Photographers, beg to intimate
their intention of giving FREffi LESSONS in the Seductive Art to aU purchasers of a Photographic
outfit at their warehouse. The services of a competent operator have been secured, and beginners
are now relieved from all anxiety about possible failure. The young are hereby protected from pre-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair.
Cetira-eras
By all the best makers from £3 upward, according to size and quality.
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
Slxu-tters
Of every deiciiption, including the famed “GUEBRY,” the best all round shutter
in the world.
THE VERGARA. PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
NOVTLTIES BY EVERY MAIL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
LICHTNER &
32 O’CONNELL STREET.
«ti
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITS*'
WM
208 to 269 KantHStroot
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
Ann
EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, AKD SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and 00. S
Oognao.
*. T. G A YEN'B
SohnasisiQ and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Mo W U M ■ * *
In Oranlfce, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railingi.
Dnlgai and Brtimatai forwarded on raenn
j. eir*iiiM«HAra #
MUiMnin. wnmrAMHravAiUii Brows*
WK can recommend the Imperial Hair-Out-
ting Saloon as the beat in Brisbane.
Tobaoco and olgara of the beat brands. Address i
Temple Building, Oeorge-street, sis doors from
Queens-street, A, OOOPBB. ProprlsMv,
GBD.GBD. GBD.
SHIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
BRIAB * PIPES,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
alii persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT St CO.,
Ml. OLARENOR-STRBBT.
GBD.
We hare Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAB
PIPES to hand and Regular Bhipmen coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
u
MACKAY.
NSURPASSBD accommodation for commer-
cial travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer.
I make oomfort of travellers a special study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
The science of life,
By W. Knox Parke*, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 200 pages l
bound in doth, and contains over 100 presorlp
tions. Price, post paid, Bs. Bd. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex-
haustion and Diseases Bhould Bend at once for this
valuable work. Address! Doctor w, v,
Parker, Poet Office Chambers, oorner Boutko and
Elisabeth Streets. Melbourne. Vie.
E.WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE *od PIANOFORII
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AMD
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and O'CONNELL STREETS.
LARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the
MOST CELEBRATED MAKERS, NEW«
TON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, varion
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
M oods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or vith smaller Wardrobes for
siDgle rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LIMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O'Connell streets.
FIVE POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED
RCOII SUITES.—The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprislrg Wardrobe, Washstand with
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and two
Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionsb’e Early English
designs.—WARDROBE, 4 feet, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
ard tile back and Towel Fail; TOILET TABLE,
with SwiDg Glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP«
BOARD and Two CANE-SEATED CHAIRS, 16
guineas-
NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB.
*l
CANVAS FOLDIN
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS, 6xB,
BxB, 9 x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6 x 8, 63. 6d ; 8 xB,
93.; 9x 8, 93. Gd. ; 10 xB, 10s. Gd. ; 12 xB. 12s.
6d. ;12 x 10, 15s. NEWTON and LAMB, Furni-
ture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell streets.
BICAN PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
0 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard
and Verandah,
Price very low.
NEWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
LAWN- and PiRK SEATS, 6 feet IODg,
Rustic Cast-iron Standard!?, Its. 6d. each.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
GARDLN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.
NEWTON and LAMB.
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from 155.;
and large variety of Chairs, from 12s. 6d.
&c.; s ecial detigns, extra quality. Newton and
LAMB, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O'Connell streets.
JC E CHESTS,
all slzss,
from 27a.
NEWTON and LAMB.
JgJXCELSIO R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
Various Sizes, from 15s.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, cr Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material,
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices.
NEWTON and LAMB, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
NEWTON and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 11s. each,
NEWTON and LAMB,


SKETCHES
AT
KATOOMBA
BY
CHILMAY
'' Yo\J d our seem-To
Ewoyeo yovti BaTk iHis
"l3Aftt Be l s °APeo n/sclf
AIUOVcK ArTp-fHERt »VAS pro
* ' SHOWER ."
/
" txc \isi SIR: rev/VMLO
/ov/ Mn*D yO\ltf fti{
\Jt/m SEA-/ 9 <H£R£ AWE
U\DIES BEHIND WHo WANf 10 SEE
■fuE View. "
Tjui- MC-tf
Jiff
Vow-fftEl/ qiRLS
•fo-i'nt *tE£ 0, MN»\
e YOUR IMHE ? >
E c tjo.
WHAf <Hc ‘‘ J 7 '
fo 00 vr,<tf ? jt^
Some T hings Among the Mountains,


MtLSAM BMOSL, &IGG F * CO.,
momsoxQMßs,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
ill SEORGfE STREET, SYDNEY
■ «
o .
•V'?'
o
<0
V';.
5
IRONMONGERS
512
x
c*
<</
o
*
REG?
H
b
SPECIALITIES i
Bins’ Sawing Machine, iaheatoa Flra-praol Faint, libs Cuban Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARS, CUTLERY, TOOLS.
SAI COOKING STOVES I-LEONIH FLETCHER'S, JEANS ft WALKER'S
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, tea., fcO.
»,
COMPOUND
iSSEIC! OF DANDELION
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
l»%islitt, Liver ini Kiln; Disorders,
: ' tttlil
Road testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
LIVER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and ionic in conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, Is. per
Box. Of all Chemists.
Agents, Messrs ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white
tolly fragrant breath can
and using dally
herhT 1 •'^ hlt *» ,oWder CO “Kr B OT deleterious and preserve,
herbal, and warranted free from any gritty or aeleterxous ing . eumß , and rives a
the teeth, prevents and arrests decay, "anuScwbutic properties exercise a
v No other"Odonto is gennine,
. ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL I b now sold in a golden colour for
f Air and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALVOOB s»*£»£• *sg*Kß?SaiBißaW
SSESt, SVhX< «L&°. •">« -">»«• “ d "*■ “““ •
Wholesale ana Uetali Agtcnco —KLLfOTT ana «l- i"Kuh»ii:* &. 00,, Syflaey
o©Ts
Qots
T. WILLIAMS Jt 00..
IHrOKXKBS or
British A Foma* BootsJA Shois ;
#.l»a HualUtUUI ol
Vaa fiaaw UoAtirr or Qoooa im re* above Limbi.
278 and 412 George-si, Sydney.
HOES
HOES
k
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, Ac., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,B ALLS in stock,also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & EOWLS.
BURROTJGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON.
. p.BBORIPTIONe ire o
| )t 8 founfi In the •• LIGHT AND
ina in' * peedT Cure 01 Nervoue De-
'HhJ***! he »*'f a . DlßoMe,B > fct3> A cupy of th)»
Pl * AaatX! ,ree ' ,e&led - tor six penny
®* WAKU It GO.,
N. Sydney Pharmacy,
—. Hnntar-atreet. Brdney.
soda water
W" infWakr Si,
Trade Mark—“TONIC NERVINE."
M
ARSHALLS TONIC NERVINE
Promotes Appetite.
lmproves Digestion.
Cures Nervous Debility-
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers—Price I/S.
Prepared only by
MARSHALL BROTHERS,
Btdnnx, N.B.W, j London, England,
THR BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
BYDNBY BBANOHESI
fl« FITT-BTREKT, and 688 GEORGE-STREET.
Paid-up Capital w 1 1,000,000
Reserve fund ... „. 609,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal dties
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing In Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
olal and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N F. OIBLIN, Acting Manager,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
PATENT
PILLS.
*.-* admitted by thou-
sand* to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
sad nervous disorder*,
a sob as wind and pain
la tbs stomach, sin's
headache, afidoinwss,
fulness and ■ swelling
after meal®, disainess
and drowsiness, sold
chills, flushings of heat,
loss of appetite, short-
ness of breath, ocativ®-
ness,scurvy, blotch®* on
th® skin,disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and all
nervous and trembling
sensations, &c, The first
dose will give relief in
toembf Minutes. This is ne fiction, for they hay*
4*** it i* thousands of cases. Every sufferer is
ttnaMlT invited to try one box of these Fills, and
IStoey will he acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Mw females of all ages these Pills are Invaluable,
M s few doses cf them carry off all gross humours,
«9«* ail obstructions, and bring about all that is
required. No female should be without them. There
ft* ma medicine to be found to equal BEECHAhf’B
PQULB for removing any obstruction ®r irregularity
si the system. If taken accoxding to the directions
gives* with each box they will soon restore female* of
all ages to sound and robust health.
I"®? » weak stomach, impaired digestion and all
disorders of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a
few doses will be found to work wonders upon the
most important organ* of the human machine, They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
Sang-loat complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the 'ROSEBUD
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are “ PACTS ” admitted by thousands
embracing all classes of society; and on® of the
best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated is,
Bewefecm’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PIILS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Diffi-
culty in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Cheat, Wheezing, 4c., these
MBs stand unrivalled; and any one labouring under
any of the above complaints need only try One Box
to prove that they are the best ever offered to the
Public for Asthmatic and Consumptive Coughs,
Hoarseness, and Oppression of the Chest. They
■seedily remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
ct breathing which nightly deprive the patient of rest.
They give almost instant relief and comfort to those
afflicted with the above distressing and, when neg-
lected, dangerous complaints. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaint* give BaioaxM’s
Govern Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be
removed.
OAtmojr.—The public are requested to notice that
the words “ Bxxoham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the
Government Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills.
If not on they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by
the proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, Bt, Helens,
XAncawhire, England, in boxes at Is. lsd. and 3*. 8&
eaab„— Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
Dealer* throughout the Colonies. »
Full directions are given with mek 'atom* 9
Commerce Hotel, Qympie. Queensland,
THE above la one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prices
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mra. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson's Newest Perfumes
FAGRASA & CY-MBIDIUM
are or rare and peculiar tragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON'S
IS uneqmsecTLor?ts?tr<mj
odour it far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealer*, and of the Manufacturer <—
J. & E. ATKINSON/
1», Old Bond Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on •
Lyre,”
£
w
B CAN RECOMMBN
B. BTTGKEJiISriErS
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the moat central and well appointed ,of any In
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK
Prenoh and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Noth thb Address—
-96 ELIZABETH-STREKT
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank.
MELBOURNE.
ASUNIC HOTEL, EAST-STREET, KOOK-
fX HAMPTON.-T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings»—The “ Western Cham-
lion" says i “ I can recommend the Rookhampton
atonic to ray western friends. 1
FITZROY
aOTBL,
BAST STREET. ROCKAMPTON.
MT FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTBKi,
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting Room, without extra charge,
Good Stabling. Every Accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, 60ULBURN, N.S.W.
Y7URST-GLABB accommodation tor oommerdal
£• gentlemen and other*. Private sitting rooms,
a Hole rooms, JAMBS SIMORB. Proprietor.
Guinness Extra Stoat,
FIRST
QUALIYYg
M
*ADf
MB
BASS’ PALE ALE.
SOLE PURVEYORS l« tha
'’•MMAI AMD INDIA* KUIBIS39SU
LONDON,
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W. BAICHIN. JOHNSTON 1 CO.,
Commercial Chamber*, Bond*unreal, Sydney,
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS. VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE ’
BUCKETS, &o.
COOPERAGE
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Froprietob (late of Rookampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle M the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A Ter*
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows t- os. per diem, All meals Is. fid,
F
aiii
„. L u u g
ASTHMA, B RON CHIT IS, COUGHS
*n ; mwi:mMAmunHb
lE P A R.C 0 ONLY BY (2V.
M AS \ N G H AM* £
0
V
wf
£
D RIDGE’S
FOOD
ran INFANTS a»d INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England,
and is now being Introduced Into ttxa
Colonies.
Ever-y Storekeeper should g&i supply
as every wise mother will certainly
’ use It. -*
DR- RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON. ENGLAIfD. *
GEORGE STREET
,SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF All THE
. NEWEST SHAPES.
%na M QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE,
OHRIBTIE’B
QUEENSLAND EMPLOYMENT AGENCY.
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searohed for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable In
formation.
79 Elizabebh-street,
BRISBANE.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE.
Corner of *
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kllda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spiritß, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and ltß after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Batnu are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
A Blowing in every family
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
Xhere it not a country In the civilised world whnrp
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers.
In all the ordinary ailments of humanity their beneficent
... ... .. aotlon “ oooe recognised.
Fullest directions are supplied for their use in every disease
„ . IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM.
Manufactured only at 78 Nxw Oxxokd-st., London.
MT Purohassers should look to the Label on the Boxes and
Yota. If the address la not 511 Oxford-street London, that
spurious.


royal nmt
wrc/j
*AKf
0
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For Quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
Wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physloians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Roval Bakins
Fowdisk Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co.,
N.S.W.
P. R. PARKIN.
WHLOBSALB AND RETAIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS i
3 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
3 Bottles Whisky
1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lowndes’ Rum
1 Bottle :id Tom
TOTAL, 18.
‘Securely Paoked and delivered Free to Radfern Station, or any Wharf In the City, on receipt of fl
Christmas and Holiday Supplies exeouted on Shortest Notice.
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELECTBAR, 780 George-street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL~SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NElf
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
in
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTKATSE CATALOGUES WITH FRIG! LIST, non OH APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
f'w, Pini via.
For Artistic Posing and Effective Light*** l
combining softness and brilllanoy, kU
Photographs of
GHARLEMONT & 6I«
ROYAL ARCJADB,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY AIO»*.
80 THOU AND DO LIKKIBII
SUMMER, with its heat, dust and depHjjgf*
effects, is on ns, and one of the greatest
we may enjoyps a delightfully cool and rsfW***?J
bath, made more luxurious by the addltlo®
little “Sea Foam Shampoo." Follow the dir* 6
and you will find It a most beneficial and
giving adjunot to the toilet. It will clean**
Hair, Soalp, and Skin, and leave them delifW*?y
perfumed, will cure Scurf, Ringworm, ffco., 0»-Lt
head, and has the endorsement of the ht****S;
medical authorities. The words “Sea
Shampoo” are registered, and any oountefw**j
imitation of same will be prosecuted to th*
extent of the law. Sold by all ohemli*
dealers in toilet articles at the low prlOO 0* SI
shilling per packet. Please try one pacing*
will never regret it
ft*
THEATRE ROYAL,
ROCKHAMPTON.
THE above Is the only Lloensed g
Rockhampton for holding Theattil* *
other Entertainments, and ean bo engafla m
any term upon application to
CHARLES HASH. .
tm*t
The Wonder of Ids Age.
COLEMAN and Sons, CootamnndraifS
awarded First Prize at the Adelaide
tion for their PURE VOLATILE EUOALIJ*u
OIL. The only known cure for Asthma
affections of the chest. We have more bon*/jL
testimonials than any medicine before the P**S
This la a genuine article. Posted to any A (T,
on receipt of stamps. Price, Is. 6d,; and
Agents, Hoffnnng & Co. j : Elliott Bros. Drug
CUB-A-lE* a ±l<Sl BOOKS-
■"■■■'' - ' ■■■ ■!■'■■—■l
PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. ADDRESS CARDS PRINTED OR ENGRAVED, ALSO BALL PROGRAMMES, MEMORIAM CARDS, &o.
MUSIC AND BOOKS BOUND CHEAPLY AND STRONGLY.
fITSHND FOR CIRCULARS OF TYFOGRAPH AND BERRYGRAf»H COPYING PROCESSES.
MUSlC—Newest Pieces, Songs, Dances, and Part Music. New Catalogue, Free on Application.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET,
ALLAN a. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTS ECS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Fig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Ac.
Bcaaa and 801 l Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Gopperamithing, Hiantamn Hilling, Plumbing,
Slaafltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-flttlng, of ever? description,
BOULTON'S “FLUSH," “VALVE," and “PAN" OLOSRTS, “VACUUM" WATER.
WASTE, PREVENTERS, fco.
Mi i(«n hr TerUj Brea., Patent iir Propellers, bluwt Van Oswli, Ose Krn, Isalsn,
Warmers, da.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MACQUARIE-PLACE,
i. BYDNBY,
FtJXi PiUSODUU AND PXIOH ON AmiOASIOH, ,
ALFRED LAWRENCE and CO-
-130 COLLINS- STREET, WEST. 91 PITT-STREET,
MELBOURNE. dYDNKV.
BREWERS and Crated Water Makers Machinery and Appliances. Books on Brewing and
making. Dr. Grlefendorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Grlefendorff s Bohemian Hop
Dr. Grlefendorffs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Grlefendorffs Quinine Wine. Utloa and Munchen
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Maohlnes, feast Presses and other sorts. Llgnossote for lining ? a :j
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, Saooharometers, MlorOSOdP-"
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Ala, Hop
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &o. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of ' '
" THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS' JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE AND SFl***
TRADE REVIEW."
Also
‘.‘THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE. J
BEACON SFIELD HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne.
E. A. COOPER,
Proprietress.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
LEA & PERRI i\- S SAUG E
m
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which art calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrim
have to request that Purchasers see that the Lab*K m every bottle
bears their Signature thus—*
without which ne bottle of the original WOR CESTERS HIRM
SA UCE< is genuine .
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name as* Wrapper, Label, Rattle and
Stopper . C Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
Blackwell, London, <s fc., frc,; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World,
Wholesale Agents t Montefiore Joseph Sc Co., : David Cohen Sc Co., Sydney,
Taylorflro s
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IMIABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
' V ' ' ‘ , I . ' ■ ' - N
FJIO JOBBING PRINTERS, *O.
To bo sold, a largo quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for country newspaper. Apply,
“ Bulletin " Newspaper Co., Pitt-street.
NOTICE.
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoining “ Bulled
Office, Pitt-street, Apply, this Office*
VISITORS TO SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF
WATCHES, Jewellery, Opera-glasses, Optical, Mathematical, Scientific, and Surveying Goods, also the unrivalled Workshops, in full swing, where the manufacture and rep***
all these Goods Is carried on under the constant and personal supervision of the Proprietor. Come one, come all, to 334 George-street.
T- E" 1 . ’WIESDB3STEH3, 334 GKEOISGKE: STEEET.
WIESENER, WIESENER, WIESENER, WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTIOAN.
