

The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No 433.
SATURDAY, MAY 19, 1888.
Price, 6d,
Both on the Wallaby.
BUNNY: “I’m so sorry, Bung Hi, that you are going to leave us. But must you go?"
BUNG HI: “All li’! You waitem bymeby, you allee same go too. China man go, squattah go. Allee same squattah go, 'long come selectah, long come illigation,
takee up small falms. You see? China man go; squatah go ; labbit go. Me go, you go. Good bye!"


The Bulletin
Tie National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Walks,
TERMS TO S UBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
ivhether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" ivill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice arc not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not tvish
to interfere.
if);j£aUetCn.
SATURDAY, MAY 19.
Protection —a National Necessity.
One burning question is now engaging the
Australian mind. It not only takes pre-
cedence of all other questions; it stands
alone in its Sphinx-like uniqueness. In this
instance Eclipse is first and the rest nowhere.
Like CEdipus, we must answer or be de-
voured, and the Chinese Sphinx is only a
single phase of a fierce struggle which has
been going on for ages; which has been
going on since the dawn of life on our
planet; which will continue till the world
hangs heatless and lifeless in the sky—the
struggle for racial supremacy. In our own
individual case we must solve the problem
finally and effectively. We may exclude the
Chinaman who brings to these shores his
labour, but we have something further to do:
we must exclude also the product of his
labour, and the product of all labour which
threatens our commercial and industrial
existence. In England the tradesman and
the artisan, the clerk and the household
drudge are displaced by Germans. Where
this is not the case the native products of
England are displaced by the imported pro-
ducts of the Continent. Nature teaches one
stern law of existence, “Eat or be eaten,”
and nations ignore the teachings of Nature
and attempt to adjust the conditions of
existence by the doctrines of Christianity.
“Be eaten and you will eat.” This is sub-
lime, but it is unphilosophical. The bene-
volence of Presbyterianism, which consigns
the major portion of the earth’s inhabitants
to everlasting punishment, exerted itself the
other day in Melbourne—in the spirit of
alleged Christian forbearance—to retain in
Australia the Chinese competitor against
struggling white labour. In New South
Wales there are but a handful of
people, and it is compelled to com-
pete against the teeming millions of the
whole earth. Internecine competition within
its own boundaries is intensified a hundred-
fold by international competition against a
thousand millions or more who are bent on
destroying it. In commerce as in war there
is no mercy ; the weakest go to the shambles.
The men who fight their fellows with imports
and exports are anthropophagi, and Free-
trade amongst nations, like free competition
amongst individuals, is the most expeditious
mode of cooking the captive for the cannibal
repast. Protection is something more than
a means of conserving the local market to
the local trader. It is a necessity to national
existence. It is the talisman of potency by
which is maintained the dominance of a race.
* ,jt -- - * .
Professor Huxley, in the February number
of the Nineteenth Century, in an article
on “ The Struggle for Existence,” makes a
magnificently powerful plea for Protection,
although he does not call it by that name.
From the standpoint of natural science he
measures the commercial tendency of the
age, and his words are full of weight and
sombre with Cassandra warnings. He de-
clares that so long as unlimited multiplica-
tion is going on, no social organisation which
has ever been devised ; “no fiddle faddling
with the distribution of wealth, will deliver
Society from the tendency to be destroyed
by the reproduction within itself, in its
intensest form, of that struggle for existence
the limitation of which is the object of
Society.” He points out that, deceive our-
selves as we may, we cannot cheat remorse-
less Nature of her tribute of victims. Like
the Minotaur of mythology, slain by Theseus,
she periodically demands her sacrifice of
youth and loveliness, but, unlike the Mino-
taur of mythology, she meets no Theseus
to avenge her victim’s fate. We have no
Theseus who can thread his way through
the tansrle of the labyrinth presented by this
ever-awful human riddle. Free Competi-
tion among men and among nations is the
power which feeds the ruthless monster with
her human food. Professor Huxley sajs .
“However shocking to the moral sense this eternal
competition of man against man and of nation against
nation may be ; however revolting may be the accumula-
tion of misery at the negative pole of society, in contrast
with that of monstrous wealth at the positive pole ; this
state of things must abide and grow continually worse, so
long as Istar holds her way unchecked. It is the true
riddle of the Sphinx, and every nation which docs not
solve it will sooner or later be devoured by the monster
itself has generated."
* * *
Professor Huxley goes on to show that
what is termed “society” in the modern
sense has been brought about, with all its
concomitant miseries and partial ameliora-
tions, by the conflict of natural evolution—
which goes on crushing worlds and worms
oblivious of theories and hypotheses—and
ethical evolution, which has its basis in the
human effort to account supernaturally for
the external phenomena of the universe ;
and these ethical principles have been en-
couraged and made necessary by centuries
of non-natural or artific'al civilisation and
social organisation. Thus the course shaped
by the ethical man —the member of society,
the citizen—necessarily runs counter to that
which the not-ethical man —the primitive
savage, man as a mere member of the animal
kingdom—tends to adopt:—
“ The latter fights out the straggle to the bitter end,
like any other animal; the former devotes his best
energies to the object of setting limits to the struggle.
. . . But the effort of ethical mm to work towards
moral end has by no means abolished, perhaps, has hardl
modified, the deep-seated organic impulses which impe
the natural man to follow his non-moral course. One o
the most essential conditions, if not the chief cause, o
the struggle for existence is the tendency to multiply
without limit, which man shares with all living thing
It is notable that “increase and multiply ’ is a con
mandment traditionally much older than the ten, anc
that it is, perhaps, the only one which has been spoi
taneously and ex animo obeyed by the great majority
the human race. ... In civilised society the inevit-
able result of such disobedience is the re-establishmen ;,
in all its intensity, of that struggle for existence—the wa
of each against all—the mitigation or abolition of whic i
was the chief end of the social organisation.”
In New South Wales, the one country o’
the Australian group most virulently anc
pugnaciously Freetrade in its fiscal policy
we have the spectacle of a little over a mil
lion of people arrayed against something
near twelve hundred millions,' protectee
against the competition of the single puny
million by prohibitive tariffs ; containing
within themselves a greater inequality in the
distribution of wealth, a keener struggle for
the spoil ; with Free Competition cheapen
ing production down to the price of raw
material plus hardly a bare subsistence-wage
These millions are always adding to their
numbers, and literally ravening with fierce
relentless hunger for the blood of their fel-
low-men. Yet smiling economists ask
fatuously if “ Protection keeps up the price
of wages ? ” while the struggle for bread is
driving mortals mad ! The Freetraders of
New South Wales may strive to blink the
question, but they cannot consistently bar
Australian ports to Chinese labour—the
chief objection to which is that it is cheap
labour—without closing Australian markets
to the products of all cheap labour. It is
the ever-recurring alternative, “ Eat or be
eaten.” The Chinese Restriction Act is a
mere measure of partial Protection and Aus-
tralia is thirsting for the whole bill.
* * *
To return to Professor Huxley’, s recent
article in the Nineteenth Century, He
goes on to insist that the impassive fate for
ever dodging the footsteps of man, the cruel
and immortal Istar, never wearies, never
sleeps, never rests. Man has endeavoured
to set at nought her fiat, and she is always
teaching him how puny and impotent he is.
Social ethics encourage marriage, punish
child-murder ; rear to maturity physical and
moral deformity ; diminish the horrors of
sickness, disease, famine, and drought ;
arrest the progress of pestilence ; prop up
the falling strength and lengthen the span
of human life beyond the period of useful-
ness and production. Society saddles itself
with the care of the weak and incompetent;
places the feeble and helpless in hospitals
and alms-houses ; feeds them at public cost
in soup-kitchens ; supplies the poor with
free firing from charitable coal-yards ; places
the costly criminal in prisons and reforma-
tories. Society has given life to its corpse.
The weaker have a superior chance of exis-
tence than the stronger, for the latter have
to find the means of subsistence forall. Istar,
however, is not to be defrauded. Strong
and weak alike become her prey. The race,
as a whole, suffers for its weaker stock.
Huxley puts the problem in a parable ;
“ It is conceivable that at some period in the history of
the fabled Atlantis the production of food should have
been exactly sufficient to meet the wants of the popula-
tion, that the makers of artificial commodities should
have amounted to just the number supportable by the
surplus food of the agriculturists. And, as there is no
harm in, adding another monstrous supposition to the
foregoing, let it be imagined that every man, woman, and
child was perfectly virtuous, and aimed at the good of all
as the highest personal good. In that happy land the
natural man would have been finally put down by the
ethical man. There would have been no competition,
but the industry of each would have been serviceable to
all; nobody avaricious, there would have been no rival-
ries ; the struggle for existence would have been abolished
and the millennium would have finally set in. But it is
obvious that this state of things could have been per-
manent only with a stationary population. Add ten fresh
mouths, and as, by the supposition, there was only
exactly enough before, somebody must go on short
rations. The Atlantis society might have been a heaven
upon earth, the whole nation might have consisted of
just men needing no repentance, and yet somebody mus i
starve. Nature would have riven the social fabric.”
♦ * *
There is, therefore, a never-ending anc
merciless feud between the moral aspiration
of the social man and the non-moral and re
morseless laws of Nature. On the one hand,
the desire of society is to increase the sum
of human happiness, to abolish misery *nc
wrong, suffering and want; on the other
the everlasting demand of the Shylock o :
Fate is for his pound of flesh. The contlic
can never be ended by international treatie
or lessened by Acts of Parliament. Th
penalty may be transferred, not avoided.
The vast majority of the earth’s inhabitant
must pay the price to an inexorable I, star
The actual physical struggle for existenc
between individuals is daily rendered mor
impossible by a complicated social system
but the struggle still goes bn. Unde
modern conditions the strife is continued,
not so much by units, as by communities—
aggregations of units. By commerce, or by
war, nation seeks to destroy nation
race to subjugate and triumph over race
And with the nation, as erstwhile with
the individual, the prize is to the swif;
and the battle to the strong. The mos'i
enduring and vigorous nation exploits the
others, and the fat and fruit of the earth
become the spoil of the successful,trader a
much as of the victorious warrior. So the fierce
fight between Man and Istar is always being
waged and the evolutionary law enforced
Looking down upon the battlefield from the
lofty eyrie of Science, Professor Huxley
considers the attempt to ameliorate the con
ditions of existence for humanity, in the
wide sense of the word, a piece of hopeless
folly. There is happiness to be attained, bu;
those who attain it are the few, not the
many. At least one nation, one race, may
be snatched from the gulf of all hope, anc
Huxley asks why that single nation shoulc
not be England. He considers that it woulc
be worse than foolish to entertain any feeling
of ill-will toward her neighbours or her
rivals who, like the English themselves, are
but the thralls of Istar, but if somebody is
to starve the world of to-day has no Delphic
oracle from which to learn the intendec
victim’s name. Therefore, says Huxley,
let us try our luck “and if we avoid
the impending fate, there will be a certain
ground for believing that we are the right
people to escape.” England’s population of
36,000,000 is never stationary. Every year
adds more than 300,000 to the number.
Every hundred seconds or so a new claimant
presents himself to share in the common
stock. At present, the produce of England’s
soil is not sufficient to feed half her popula-
tion. A moiety has to be fed by the peoples
of food-producing countries, who give corn
and meat in exchange for England’s manu-
factured goods. The English are shop-
keepers under penalty of starvation. There
is but one alternative ; sell or thieve ; en-
gage in trade or make war ; be either
huckster or highwayman ; keep a store or
join the brigands. “But,” says Huxley,
‘ ‘ other nations also lie under the same
necessity of keeping shop, and some of them
deal in the same goods as ourselves.” This
is bad for England, but good for Istar.
Custom naturally drifts to that market which
can supply the best and the most in ex-
change.
“If our goods are inferior to those of our competitors,
there is no ground compatible with the sanity of the
buyers, which can be alleged, why they should not prefer
the latter. And, if that result should ever take place on a
large and general scale, five or six millions of us would
soon have nothing to eat. We know what the cotton
famine was ; and we can therefore form some notion of
what a dearth of customers would be.”
Evidently Huxley, did he but live in Aus-
tralia, would be President of the Anti-
Chinese League.
• » *
How to keep the market open to her
goods is, therefore, the life-secret of Eng-
land’s greatness. She must always produce
better goods at a lower figure than the rest
of the nations of the earth. Thus shall she
cheat Istar, and pityingly watch the deca-
dence of empires which are forced to trade for
a livelihood. If she cannot continue to
maintain her commercial supremacy mil-
lions of Englishmen must starve and the
struggle for existence in England herself
rage rage fiercely than ever. It is a question
of life or death. She must eat or be eaten.
But, according to Huxley, she can do it,
“ an’ she will but try.” The skill, know-
ledge, and industry required in production
must be fostered by technical schools ; the
cost of production must be kept down, but
not kept down so low as to induce squalor,
and the rate of profit must be minimised.
Within England’s own boundaries the strug-
gle for existence must be practically abolished
and psychological poverty unknown. The
workman must never be suffered to fall into
that condition which the French emphatically
call la misere —the condition in which food,
warmth, and clothing cannot be obtained ;
for the normal functions of the body cannot
go on, nor the workman be of industrial
value, without food, warmth, and clothing.
Men, women, and children must not be
forced to herd in dens, and noisome hovels,
and hideous tenement-flats. Slum-life must
be wiped out of being, and decency main-
tained. The ordinary conditions of health-
ful existence must be rendered possible of
attainment to the bone and brawn of Labour,
and its environment must be made sweet
and wholesome. Bestiality and drunken-
ness, starvation and disease, stunted develop-
ment and moral degradation must no longer
be considered the inseparable concomitants
of the workman’s life. The present con-
ditions of Labour, in which the prospect of
even steady and honest industry is a span of
unsuccessful battling with hunger, rounded
by a pauper’s grave, must be Crated and re-
vivified :
“ Argumentation can hardly be needed to make it clear
that no society in which the elements of decomposition
are thus swiftly and surely accumulating can hope to win
in the race of industries.”
• • •
This is purely and simply Protection
True, Professor Huxley endeavours to bring
about by an adjustment of the social con-
ditions of Labour what other Protectionists
endeavour to bring about by a fiscal adjust-
ment of tariffs. But the two things bang
together and pursue a common object.
H uxley, by means of technical schools and
industrial colleges, seeks to ward off the
attacks of Istar and make England supreme
over all the other nations of the earth.
Good! Technical schools and industrial
colleges, and cheap education are simple
measures of Protection. We commend the
Professor’s article to the Freetraders of Aus-
tralia, China, and Polynesia ; to the York-
street shoddy-ring, as well as to the em-
ployers of Chinese and Kanaka labour in
Queensland and the Northern Territory.
* • •
But why should Australia not profit by
Huxley’s wisdom 1 She is young and a long
life stretches away before her into the dim
future. A new man in a final heat is fresher
far than his rivals, and Australia has a wide
field for development; only let the develop-
ment take place on scientific lines. Why
should we not be the one nation which Pro-
tection shall enable to snatch its children
from the implacable vengeance of Istar 'I
England is old and we are young, and youth
looms big with unbounded potentialities.
And in the words of Huxley :
“ The modern world has no oracle of Delphi to which
the nation can appeal for an indication of the visitation.
It is open to us to try our fortune, and if we avoid impend-
ing fate, there will be a certain ground for believing that
we are the right people to escape.”
Let us take up the gage thrown down by
Istar, and instead of figuring at the cannibal
repast, trussed and roasted on a dish, larded
and ready for filling the maws of oilr rivals
let us sit down amongst the guests—but in
the place of honour, with an appetite
sharpened by the struggle for existence-.
Sentiment has no place in the scheme of
Nature, and the sentimentalist is always
eaten. The anthropophagi of trade are not
all Chinamen. They speak every language*
but one phrase slips trippingly from their
tongues: “Open ports!” We will slowly
learn, and we trust before it is too late to
profit by the lesson, that Protection is some-
thing more than a means of conserving the
local market to the local trader* That it is
also a necessity of national existence.
Freetradc Economy.
The .proverbial Foreign-trade “fact,” which is
near akin to the lamented Ananias, receives a
new illustration in the Otago Witness, a N.Z.
journal which attempts with an undecided voice
to shore up the tottering cause of European and
Asiatic cheap labour. For many years New
Zealand has been living in a state of inflated hap-
piness, and now that the wine has all been drunk
and only the broken, dusty, cobwebbed bottle
remains, the colony has begun to look with a
hollow eye on the unpaid bill. Since New Zealand
was founded the imports have exceeded the exports
to the extent of 42| million pounds, and as a
result the colony is in debt to an extent which is
little else than appalling. The Otago Witness,
however, rises to crush this circumstance in one
paragraph :
“ Lucid, this, and yet withal profound deep as a well,
and clear as mud. * The balance of trade is against us.’
Adam Smith was supposed to have exploded and dissi-
pated the ‘ balance of trade ’ fallacy a century ago ; but
we live and learn. In addition to the millions it has bor-
rowed New Zealand has imported and consumed
million pounds’ worth more than it has produced ! Poli-
tical economists affirm that no country can consume more
than it produces ; that imports and exports invariably
and necessarily balance each other. Long experience,
however, has convinced me that whenever it is a question
of Freetrade versus Protection the political economists
are clean out of it.”
♦ * *
The human intellect totters at this point from
sheer amazement. The old, burst-up chestnut
which was long ago relegated to the lunatic
asylum for deranged ideas has escaped from
its confinement. An apparently sane journal
existing in a presumedly sane century wastes
its precious ink in an effort to prove that no
country can import more than it exports, and
nobody, from the managing editor down to the
printer’s devil, arose to crush this amazing drivel
before it got into print. The question which we
ask now is, why do countries persistently import
more than they export if they can’t do it ? Unless
Mulhall and every other statistical authority on
the face of the earth is a lie, half the nations of
the globe are doing this, and not one of them has
found out that they are all committing an impos-
sibility. Further, if a nation can’t import more than
it exports, even if it tries, how does any nation
contrive to pile up external debts ? The debts of
the Australian states have been almost entirely
accumulated through the importation of railway and
other material for which the country was not in a
position to export-any produce except promissory-
notes in return, but if it is impossible that imports
can, under any circumstances, exceed exports, it
naturally follows that the debts which are now
crippling all Australasia in interest and other
charges are a mere myth, and have no existence
whatever. The absurd reasoning by which Adaa(
Smith pretended to prove that no country could
consume more than it produced, and by which
Pulsfoed and other humble Freetraders have,
since endeavoured to show the utter uselessness of
Protection, must be applied to the individual, as
well as the State, to be fully understood. The
State is made up of individuals, and if the State


necessarily produces exactly the amount which
it consumes, then each individual must do
likewise, or this happy result could never be
arrived at. Consequently it follows that the,
great consuming and non-producing class which
embraces the monarch and the loafer, with a
hundred intermediate grades, of humanity thrown
in, is a delusion which has never possessed any
foundation in fact. There is no non-producing
class whatever ; no nation can get into debt even
if it tries, and as the nation is made up of indi-
viduals it necessarily results that no individual
can get into debt either. And at this point we
pause to ask Mr. Pulspobd to construct one of
those diagrams which have made his name famous.
* * *
Let A represent an island owned or leased by
one man and devoted to the rearing of sheep. Let
B represent the distant continent on which the
owner resides. Every year wool to the value of
£5OOO is raised on the island and exported to the
continent where it is sold by the owner, who re-
tains the money, all except some £4OO or £5OO,
which he sends back to pay wages and working
expenses. Thus it follows that the island exports
more than it imports, and unless the produce is
lost at the bottom of the sea every time it natur-
ally follows that some other part of the world
must import more than it exports. The great
procession of Foreign-traders which began with
Adam Smith and ended with Puls ford says
that such a thing is impossible, but they
never once show where the produce iii
question goes to. Australia is dotted all
over with estates belonging to absentee owners
and the bulk of the profit from these goes to
England every year never to return. But if the
Freetrade assumption is correct, the profits of these
properties— the same profits which enable a
thousand “representative Australians” to grovel
periodically in London, and a hundred' loan,
guarantee, mercantile, finance, and other institu-
tions to pay huge dividends to English stock-
holders can't go out of the country even if they
try. The wool or grain or other produce is ex-
ported regularly, and whether the absentee owner
annexes trie proceeds or not, the value must come
back, or a great law of economy will be bursted up.
* * *
Protection is a plan by which it is proposed to
encourage local manufacture in place of the
ruinous system of foreign importation. Free-
traders, in order to combat tins policy, travel on a
theory that, even if a land produces nothing and im-
ports everything it must come out square at the end
of the year. Australia, it is true, lias imported vast
quantities of material for which she has exported
nothing but paper bonds in return, but though
these bonds apparently represent the value of im-
ports for which the country cannot pay in produce
or otherwise, the Freetrader complacently points
out that every country pays for all it receives and
can’t help itself. And just here we see a gleam of
hope_ for Peruvian bondholders, speculators in
Mexican stocks, and other holders of wild-cat
securities. Peru and Mexico imported a vast
amount of borrowed British capital, chiefly in the
form of war-material and other goods of a similar
nature, and they have both, for some years, suc-
cessfully avoided exporting any value in return.
But as they must export exactly the same amount
as they imported—no more and no less—it
naturally follows that the lost investments will
yet be repaid. The borrowers can’t avoid repay-
ing even if they try, for the remorseless law of
political economy is shoving them onwards to that
end. Neither a nation nor an individual can go
broke, even if it wants to. The fundamental prin-
ciple of Freetrade says that it can’t, and that
principle must assert itself, or something will
drop. Moreover, under these circumstances,
economy becomes a bowled-out virtue. No indi-
vidual and no nation need work so long as loans
can be floated in the European markets, and, so
far, these markets have never failed us. All Aus-
tralia and New Zealand can sit down under its
own vine and fig-tree, and revel in imported quail-
on-toast, and let a paternal Government issue
bonds for the cost thereof. By some occult pro-
cess the country produces enough to balance all
these imports, and though we may not see them
being balanced, they are being balanced all the
time. Political economy is a force which never
sleeps.
Parkes, the Patriot.
We had occasion to comment the other day on the
■“ hesitation ” of the New South Wales Premier
to act with courage and promptitude in regard to
the Chinese question. At that time the s.s.
Afghan had not touched at any Australian port,
and the stream of Mongolian emigration came in
mainly through the back-door of the continent—
Port Darwin. Had the Australian Governments,
strong in the maintenance of their right to legis-
late for themselves, there and then simultaneously
passed an Act absolutely prohibiting the landing
of any Chinamen on and after a certain date ; had
they further apprised the Chinese Government of
such a prohibitive emigratory measure*, and had
they given intending Chinese emigrants an oppor-
tunity “to make other arrangements,”' their
action would not only have- inspired respect but
would probably have accomplished all that was
■desired in the way of checking the yellow flood-
tide of Chinamen to Australia. But they did
not do tliis. They were afraid of England. And
this, too, at a moment when an Imperialistic
British Ministry was putting forth every blandish-
ment to cement the “bonds” of Empire. Aus-
tralian Governments showed their arrant cowardice,
and got deservedly snubbed for their pains. Baffled
in the direction of Downing-street they strove when
popular pressure was brought to bear upon them —
with a ship freighted with Chinamen in the bay—
to “ pass it on,” from one Government to another.
Iniquitous injustice has been done to the miserable ,
wretches on board the Afghan, the law has been
strained to its utmost limits, and when an anti-
Chinese deputation waited upon Sir Henry
Parkes, Poet, Patriot, and Premier, his little
:soul conjured up a fresh fear of the power of the
“ great ” Chinese Empire. He said, in reply to a
hint about cutting the painter with the “ dear old
mother country ” :
“ I hardly know what the gentleman can mean by
speaking in defiance of British treaties. So long as we are
pirt of the British Empire we must be bound by In a v
rights, and we cannot be expected to have much part in
m thing the treaties. I suppose he means that in the case
of extremity he would prefer separating from Great
Britain rather than submit to these obligations. . . .
If you separated from Great Britain to-morrow you would
be helpless with regard to the Chinese. ... I re-
peat, if you separated from Great Britain to morrow, you
would he as helpless as children with regard to the Chinese.
China would have a just cause in declaring war, and she
could overwhelm you, do , what you might. Her inex-
haustible numbers, her very great advance in all civilised
arts and her present rapidly advancing state would make
her a most formidable power. She could do what she
liked and plant Chinese settlements in Australia, in spite
of all the power you could muster We would be in a
helpless position if separated, and it is a foi innate thing
in dealing with this very difficult question that we are
not a separate country, but connected with a very
powerful Empire. It is preposterous to tell us that we,
about -‘H millions of people scattered over Australia,
would he able to fight that country with 400 millions of
people, with resources of wealth and armament. You
would have to knuckle down if you were a separate
country. So that question is disposed of by the very
foolishness of it.”
Here speaks the Premier of what he chooses to
consider the germ of a “ Great Southern Em-
pire. These are the bold and statesmanlike
ideas of a man who likes to compare himself to
Hampden, Cobden, and Gladstone. These
utterances, we are asked to believe, come from
the soul of a patriot, a poet, an idealist ; a
man of great and lofty conceptions, of daring
strategies and universal intellect. Was there ever
anything so pitiful ? This magnificent and white-
haired personality, born—according to his own
account—to rival Napoleon and make C.-esar's
ghost pale with envy, trembles at the Chinamen,
throws down his weapons and strikes His flag to
the yellow dragon of barbaric Tartary. We waive
the imperfect deduction from historic parallels, we
are silent about the false logic of this “states-
man’s ” speech ; we trouble ourself only with the
Sentiment of one who sat, like St. Simon Stylites,
on a peak of Darien, toying with the tangles of
his_ Stella’s hair, and kissing , that delightful
maiden through the starry watches of the frosty
night. Because we have the misfortune to be
connected number of “links” in the “chain”
of Imperial Federation to a barnacle-covered and
limpet-grown Empire, which shirks the duty of
protecting ns, we must “knuckle down”—yes,
them’s the ojus words—to another Empire, simi-
larly moss-grown and behind the times, on account
of some transactions between these Imperial old
fogies not altogether unconnected with the tea-
trade and the traffic in opium. And the man who
advises this genufiectory process before the
prowess of the Imperial' Chow is the mneh-be-
maned personage who has been for years posing
as an Australian of the Australians, poet, idealist,
and patriot! Of course, we might reply, if
it were _ worth while to reply, that we ran
far less risk of_ opposing the Chinese now than if
we waited until they had developed their military
and naval power, besides limiting onr own ad-
vancement by quiet and unostentatious invasion
through the back-door of the continent. Sir
Henry Parkes, however, has only the partial
pluck of the half-way man.. With characteristic
and customary political cowardice, he perceives a
segment of the peril without having an in-
finitesimal fraction of the courage necessary to
meet it. “To be great, ’ says a modern writer,
“isto be misunderstood.” Sir Henry Parkes on
the contrary, is always painfully and transpar-
ently logarithmic. He is too cautious to be states-
manlike ; too fearful of giving offence to be
drastic or thorough in his method of dealing with
this weighty question ; for, after all, the China-
man is only a mask beneath which is hidden a
human problem, and the man to cope with it must
be a born genius, a political thinker of all time ;
able to take his place with like ability amongst
the archons of - ancient Athens ; amongst the
senators-, of old Rome ; in the witenagemote of
Saxon England ; in the British parliaments of the
days of Burke and Sheridan. Sir Henry
Parkes is a mere temporiser, a creature of
ephemeral politics, a parish-beadle with the airs of
a tribune of the people. He clearly sees the
shadow of a bit of the approaching danger, but
lie lacks the courage to apply the remedy. It is
often sought to punish mental disease as if it were
social crime; now it is sought to remedy a social
danger by treating it as if it were a disease. Mrs.
Partington laboured hard with her mop to keep
back the surging Atlantic; Sir Henry Parkes
endeavours to quarantine an invasion and put a
nation in the trespass-pound. Throughout this
“ Afghan ” fiasco Australia has acted like a great
lubberly school-boy, who, though strong, was also
cowardly and afraid to fight his foe himself, and ran
to his mother to do the fighting for him. When his
mother refused to help him, he still skulked like the
In by that he is, and besought his pedagogue to lock
John Chinaman up, because he had the measles,
or if he didn’t have them he ought to-have. Any-
thing rather than fight a stand-np battle ! And
public opinion has sunk so low in Australia that
the people approve this course, simply because
they have not the Courage to stand up like men
and fight lone-handed against their only serious
danger. Wiiat can be expected in the future of a
people too cowardly to take hold of their present ?
Is there a future before them to achieve ? In the
words of Emerson :
“ I’ear is an instructor of great sagacity, and the
herald of all revolutions. One thing he teaches, that
there is rottenness where he appears. . He is a carrion
crow, and; though you see not well what he hovers for,
there is death somewhere. Our property is timid, our
laws are timid, our cultivated classes are timid. Fear for
ages has bowed and mowed and gibbered over Govern-
ment and property. That obscene bird is not there for
nothing. He indicates great wrongs which must be re-
vised ! ’
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Absentees and “The Argus.”
In the course of a miserable attempt to justify ab-
sentee landlordism, the Argus has fairly sur-
passed its previous best on record in the Tory art
of truth-contortion. Firstly, the squatters’organ
impudently sets down as an indisputable fact that
“ foreign money carries with it the absent owner,”
thereby insinuating that there is no real distinc-
tion, as regards their value to Australia, between
men like Sir Salmon Wilson and the London
shareholders of banks, whose capital is-devoted to
the furtherance of commercial enterprise in this
country. Or that the “ home ” partner in an Aus-
tralian business (showing 30 per cent, on returns)
is in the same boat as the English capitalist who
advances the firm money for a fixed period at 8 or
10 per cent. Foreign money does not necessarily
carry with it ownership in anything but itself.
That money may make the fortune of ..the
Australian borrower while the English lender
derives a very modest income from the interest.
But the Argus would have us believe that the
Englishman who invests his money in colonial
securities is as much an absent owner as the Aus-
tralian who accumulated money, or landed
property in this country, and spends the profits in
London. Foreign money poured into Australia
(for other than the purchase of our soil) is fairly
entitled to all the interest it can get, while we get
,1.13 use of the capital. Judiciously used it creates
Australian owners on the spot. It is only when
those owners turn their backs upon us and spend
abroad the income derived from Australian pro-
perty (very different to interest on money ad-
vanced) that they should be taxed as absentees.
The Argus affects to believe that capital makes
business profits, and that it is impossible to ad-
vance money upon real property without owning
said property. Which is pure bosh, but not so
boshy as the next paragraph: li One note-
worthy incident is that the mining popu-
lation, which was the warmest on the
subject of taxing incomes earned in the colony and
taken out of it, has been the first to indulge in a
practical recantation. We road frequently of
resolutions to place such and such a mine upon the
London market. Yet, of course, this transaction
means that all the profit made by the mine is sent
to an absentee owner, and this is the very pro-
ceeding which a few years back was thought to be
a grievous wrong/’ What a bleary, one-eyed way
of taking in the situation ! A Queensland mine,
say, turns up trumps for the shareholders. They
get back more than their original investment in
dividends, and the prospects of the mine warrant
(or do not warrant) those shares in being quoted at
a certain market price. There is no certainty
about the value of the property, which may be
worth much more, or much less, than the quoted
price per share. The Australians ■ decide to sell
in London, a large sum of money comes to them,
which money commences to make its own interest
immediately. The English investors have to re-
ceive dividends and interest on them, equivalent
to that original sum with interest thereon for the
time it has been locked up in the mine, before they
make any profit at all, and their profit thenceforth
is just the excess of dividend over the interest upon
purchase-money and increment combined. But if
the mine “peters out ” before this result is attained
then the original shareholders get two distinct
profits—one on their mining investment and
another on the sale of their property. By selling a
gold or silver mine shareholders are merely making
splendid hedging on a gambling transaction, and
become local owners of certain cash instead of
doubtful quartz. The absentee owner by whom
Australia is wronged is not the British capitalist
who purchases the mine, but the Australian share-
holders, who having sold an Australian property,
hasten to spend their fortunes in London and thus
steal away the treasures which are an integral part
of this continent.
*
Wise on roiilira] Morality.
Wk have sometimes thought that in the matter of
cool, comprehensive, and pharisaic political imperti-
nence, Mr. B. R. Wise,ex-Attorney-General of New
South Wales, is absolutely without a rival. One
such time was when we looked within the manual
of the New South Wales Bankruptcy Act for
which he and a legal friend of his are responsible.
The gifted scribe appends to the introductory
chapter a note in which this passage occurs;
fortunately for New South Wales commercial
honor and character must not be measured by the
degree in which they are supported by Legis-
lature. ’ The self-righteous sarcasm of this' piece
of haughty insolence is not perceived in its fulness
until one remembers that commercial honor has
been strong enough to prevent commercial mem-
bers from working wharfage jobs, ad valorem
jobs, statuary jobs, and Circular Quay jobs,
through the House to the immense gain of the
jobbers. But remembering that Mr. Wise, the
responsible author of this segment of inso-
lence, has been for fifteen months a mem-
ber of _ the Legislature, we fail to see the
appropriateness of the lofty rebuke administered
because the Assembly did not sooner pass a Bill
which its kindest critics admit to be unsuitable in
those parts which have been plagiarised and
farcical where it is original. Even so, it might be
expected that the Job who so upbraided a political
Nineveh would himself be politically spotless.
But in Mr. Wise we fail to discover the personifi-
cation of political ‘ ‘ squareness. ” On the contrary,
we remember him as one who humbugged the
House into believing that the word “ agent 4 ’ in
this very Act meant any person, and then, when
the Bill passed, published the book from which
we quote, showing that “agent” simply meant
“lawyer.” Further, we remember him as parad-
ing his virtue in refusing to accept a fee for
appearing in the Peat’s Perry actions, but refrain-
ing to state the facts that he had not appeared in
those cases and that the evidence of the first
inquiries had been perused by a well-fee’d junior.
Moreover, we remember him as a patriot who (lid
not think it good enough to serve his country for
a less sum than £3OOO a year and perks. And,
remembering these things and others, we are com-
pelled to a recollection of the conduct of Ah
Haynes, Esq., who abused the Escaped Nun, and
of Satan who once set himself to rebuke Sin.
The Australian “Patriotic” Press.
The character of the alleged republicanism of a
great percentage of soi-disant Australians can
pretty well be gauged by the shuffling and wrig-
gling of the so-called “ advanced” Liberal press.
While breathing nothing but defiance and hinting
mysteriously of gun-shots and bullet-holes, it puts
its tongue in its cheek and winks solemnly with
the eye turned from the audience, as much as to
say, “ It’s all right, boys ! An’ I’ll roar the lion's
part for,you as sweetly as the veriest nightingale.”
All this “ do and-die ’ business ivvery pretty and
very effective in typographical rhetoric, but bless
you, they don’t really mean anything more dread-
ful than a special edition—if they can work the
spirit of Australian nationalism sufficiently to
secure a sale for it. This bristling razor-back of
snorting and dare-devil defiance to the rule of
England; this chanticleoiian challenge to all the
dogs of war and powers of Cocytus anent the
Chinese question, is only a style' of speech that
‘' long primer” naturally falls into .because it looks
well, leaded in the display column, and is calculated
to catch on with the- butter-and-eggs party, whose
political ideals are purely a matter of finance and
whose objection to the Chinaman rises no higher
than the barometrical trade-gauge of ways and
means. This is the class the self-styled ‘‘patriotic ”
paper lays itself out to hook-on, and such is the
power of blarney that it succeeds at, least once in
ninety-nine endeavours. When the bacon-and-
cheese nationalists strike the echo of something
which, by a vast amount of twisting, may be dis-
torted into reading like approval, they 'are not
withheld by any scruples respecting the source of
same, If a London Tory evening paper like the
St. Jajies’ Gazette, whose vital fluid is of the
hue of the primrose and whose very breath of life
is the vapouring of the Jingoes of the Carlton
Club ; if such an uppercut compilation of aristo-
cratic scissors’-clippings and high-caste drivel
■“commends” the Australians for what they have
done in regard to the restriction of the Chinese,
and pats them with its jewelled fingers on the
head for acting in good time, the joint-stock
patriots stand on their direlict heads and chant
absurd anthems to the “new link” in “the chain ”
of Imperial Federation. Tncy readily enough
forget their protestations of republicanism ! Like
the darkies in-the farce who kneel solemnly and
cross table-knives with a vow of v/ngeanc i-till-
death against'the tyrant of their lives, they quickly
forget both their vows and their vengeance over a
mess of Indian-corn porridge. Monday; the
fierce and thirsty proclamation threatening the
very staves of empire is issued ; the Chinese must
go should the very Universe reel from the horrid
shock and the vault of the firmament crack from
the centre to the pole, Tuesday : Lord Knuts-
b'OiiD does the “Tite Barnacle” trick and asks them
if it’s anything about “tonnage.” Wednesday :
the editorial yard-axe is brought in and sharpened
and the air is thick and murky with the chief
scribe’s muttered threats. Thursday : the mail
comes along with a hand-pat in the mail-bag from a
great and influential Tory paper, with a circula-
tion limited to the members of the Primrose
League and people whose names all begin with
De, and whose cousins were something or other
to somebody else who was not altogether uncon-
nee ted with Lord Noebraynes, dontcherknow !
Friday : and the alleged prints whose cause is the
cause-of Ravaillao and whose pen is the poignard
ot Clement, scream with delight over the great
English paper’s nod of condescension and Tory
smile of high-bred sanction; and then frenzy
seizes their soul and they dodge about mental dark
corners, and dive down intellectual back-alleys
and bye-ways, chanting the glory of the great and
eternal Empire !
-♦
“ That Picture, aiul This !”
hoM e while ago, under the above heading, we
gave two pictures of London life, expressive of
the appalling contrast between the wealth and
waste of the robbers and the wretchedness of the
robbed. Ibis time we vary it, thus
London.
On Monday, Mr. John
Teoutbbck, deputy coroner
for Westminster, held an
inquiry at the St. Martin’s
A 7 estry-hall concerning the
death of Joseph Alfred
Pro faze, aged 38 years, a
jeweller, lately residing at
74, Waterford-road, Fulham,
who was found drowned in
the Thames, near Cleopa-
tra’s Needle, on the 28th'
nit. It transpired that
Mrs. Profaze, after being
informed of her husband’s
death, purchased sixpenny-
worth of laudanum, aiid
was, on Saturday morning,
found dead in her bed, the
empty bottle by her side,
Rachel Be van,' of 74
Waterford-road, Fulham,
stated that the deceased had
lodged in her house about
seven months. He was for-
merly in business as a
jeweller in New Bond-
street, but of late had been
in very poor circumstances.
He and his wife were often
in want of a meal, and wit-
ness gave them what food
and firing she could afford.
Deceased- had made every
effort to get a situation.
Mrs. Profaze handed wit-
ness a piece of paper, bear-
ing the following words in
the deceased s handwriting:
— 1 Dear Louie,— Farewell
for ever in this world. May
you prosper better in future
than you have done in the
past, is the present hope of
Joe.’ Constable Stubbs,
Thames police, who found
the body lying in the mud
under the embankment,
said that it was very thinly
clad, the poor man having
no coat and waistcoat on,
his principal garment being
a macintosh. The body was
much emaciated, and had
not been long in the water.
An open verdict was re-
turned.”
Sydney.
“ Some shocking revela-
tions were made at the
Sydney Central Police
Court this morning, when
four elderly women, who
could scarcely have pre-
sented a more wretched or
filthy appearance, were
charged with vagrancy.
The police found the
women in a tumbledown
weatherboard shed at the
Glebe, which was the resort
of thieves, vagrants, and
abandoned women, and the
scene of a succession of dis-
graceful orgies. The build-
ing was destitute of furni-
ture and reeking with filth,
and the surroundings were
most repulsive. When
pounced upon, the prison-
ers were lying drunk on the
floor of the shanty, and an
illegitimate infant, of which
one of the women had
charge, was lying almost
destitute of clothing on the
bare boards. The prisoners
were sentenced to terms of
imprisonment ranging from
four to six months, and the
building is to be demo-
lished.”
What is the cause of the first of these terrible pic-
tures is the cause of the other. The same system
of running people at strictly competitive wages,
which in no wise represent the worth of the work
done, results in the same degradation of body and
soul. Australia thinks she has no social problem
to face. Why, it is even now at her doors !
“ The Kullrliu ” (o Abigail.
The famous Pombakt case came up the other day
in the New South Wales Assembly, and Uncle
Abigail indulged in the following statements
“ I must again _ express my regret that this matter,
which is of a private nature, should .have been brought
before Parliament; but, as it has been referred to, it is
necessary for me to say that the hon. member by refer-
ring to The Bulletin ha? supplied a fact which proves
that the matter has been taken up as a means of political
persecution. Because the bank would not d'seount a bill
for £l2OO for the proprietors of The Bulletin without
security, they commenced at once attacking us. The
whole affair in reference to Pombakt occurred before I
become connected with the bank. The bank was willing
to advance the £l2OO without security if the gentlemen
representing The Bulletin would go into the strong room
at the same time as the document.”
Regarding these assertions The Bulletin lias a
very few remarks to make. First, the proprietors
of this paper never applied to the Australian
“ Banking” Company for any advance whatever,
neither did they ever authorise any one to apply to
that remarkable corporation on their account, nor
did they ever hear of this financial leg'end until it
was ventilated by' Uncle Abigail himself ;
nor are they in need of having bills discounted.
Secondly, the first occasion on which the “bank ”
in question was brought under The Bulletin's
notice was in connection with a loan on a
workman’s horse and cart, which loan, thanks to the
intricacies of the “bank’s” sliding scale of commis-
sion and other circumstances, cost him over 100 per
cent., and this flagrant extortion was The
Bulletin’s sole and only reason or motive for
attacking Uncle Abigail’s “ bank.” Thirdly, the
proprietors of The Bulletin are prepared to give
Uncle Abigail £lOO if he will prop up his asset--
tion with satisfactory evidence. Fourthly, they
offer him £lOO to “come outside” the House
and repeat his statement in the presence of two
witnesses. Fifthly, they apply to the Minister of
Mines for payment of that long-deferred £25
which he owes them for proving by his own
speeches that he was once a Protectionist, ami
they submit that this amount is increasing at an
alarming rate, owing to the 100 per cent, com-
pound interest and the sliding scale of commission,
which system lias been adopted in this special '
instance by The Bulletin, following the precedent
afforded by Mr. Abigail’s now famous “ bank. ’
In short, they call upon F. Abigail, Esq., fora
coherent explanation of his words, and if this is
not forthcoming, theyappeal to him to point out the
person who supplied him with his alleged “ facts,”
and to his constituents to ask if their member's
looseness in matters of detail fits him to act any
longer as their representative.
Mr. George Ranken writes a forceful letter
pointing out that up to the time of Parliamentary
Government in N.S. Wales a reserve 100 feet deep
around the shores of Sydney Ha-bour was faith-
fully maintained, Ministers for Lands
have been placed in political power they have sold
20 miles of this frontagrto their friends and sup-
porters at about £lO per acre, and this the lucky
buyers are now retailing at £lO per foot frontage.
Tn the records of these sales the names of Ministers'
for Lands appear continually, both as Ministers
and land-agents—at “ one time selling the front-
age like beef, at another time using their influence-
as members of parliament, urging the Minister
for Lands of the day to follow their example in
gutting the public estate.


History of Botany Bay.
The picturesque highwayman of the Claude
Duval type had vanished as completely as G.
P. R. James’ solitary horseman long before
Botany Bay came into existence, and his
place was taken by the accomplished pick-
pocket of the Barrington order. The romance
of the road was done with and over. Gallant
figures in cocked hats and cambric frills
and laced coats no longer handed high-
born ladies from their carriages to trip a
measure under the greenwood tree before
they were eased of their purses. Houns-
low Heath was not haunted any more
after dark by the younger sons of the
nobility, or the penniless scions of old
Jacobite families eager to despoil the spoilers.
The honest fellow who sprang out of Shep-
herd’s Bush to suggest a startling alternative
to the belated wayfarer was but an ordinary
cutpurse or a footpad now, who Avas inno-
cent of linen commonly, whose coat was only
embroidered with tatters, and who put on
no frills —cambric or otherwise. Yet, all the
same, there were occasions every now and
then when young fellotvs were captivated by
stories of those old knights of the road
'• Diana’s horsemen,” as they called them-
selves —and longed to emulate the enter-
prises of these minions of the moon. They
were hanged as soon as they were caught,
of course. But perhaps they thought it as
well to fall into the hands of a Bow-street
runner as into those of the press-gang. And
perhaps, after all, they saw very little dif-
ference between a leap in the air and having
one’s legs shot aAvay in some of the gallant
N elson’s naval wars. Bo every now and then
there was a story of some young fellow who
threw his life away with all the airy abandon
of the most lightsome cavalier who ever blew
the foam from a tankard of nut-broAvn ale on
the way to Tyburn Tree.
* ♦ •
One dark night towards the end of last
century a Dublin alderman, who Avas slum-
bering in his coach as it rumbled along
one of the rdads that led out of his
native city, was drowsily aAvare of the
clatter of horses’ hoofs in his neighbour
hood, and before he was AA r ell aAvake the
challenge of a highwayman rung out on the
crisp night air. The worthy citizen had only
i.ime to see his chaise-lamps flash on the
masked faces of two men Avhose horses
blocked the way. He was gigged Avith his
own wig, and bound before he kne\A r any
more, and then a blunderbuss-shot from the
roadside blew away the top of one highway-
man’s head, and nothing more Avas known of
the occurrence until the coach and its gagged
owner were found in the morning. Only it
may be added that a young medical student
was arrested as one of the actors - in this
little drama, and transported, on very slender
evidence, be it added, to Botany Bay. He
might have been hanged for his alleged
share in this freak had it not been for that
fortunate discovery of Captain Cook a very
few years before. This was one Avay of
coming to Australia in those days, but there
were a good many others.
Quite early in the history of the settlement
there was a certain young man employed as
an assistant to the Sydney surgeon, and as
he was a useful fellow of a respectable
tanuly and connections, he began to prosper
presently. He was sent to Norfolk Island as
medical officer, and, having married in the
meantime, a son Avas born there in 1791, who
afterwards achieved some fame in this part
oi the world under the name of William
Charles Wentworth. The elder Wentworth
afterwards became a magistrate of Sydney
and Principal Superintendent of Police, as
well as being a merchant, contractor, and
other lucrative things besides. He sent his
sou away from his dismal surroundings as
soon as he could—at the age of seven years, in
fact—to receive his early training as far as
possible aivay from Botany Bay and its
influences. The boy returned to Sydney
later on, to be shocked and disgusted,
doubtless, at what he saAV around him
there, and then went back to England to
finish his scholastic career at Cambridge. He
wrote some verses which have been quoted
in colonial books and speeches so often as to
be perfectly nauseous in the ears of Austra-
lian people.
» • #
Young Wentworth came back to Sydney
in 1824 as a barrisbcr-at-laAv. He brought
with him his friend, Dr. Wardell, also a
barrister, and both together entered on the
practice of their profession in the colony.
They threiv in their pnAverful sympathies
with the Emancipists. It is possible that
the generous spirit of these young men re-
volted at the squalid meanness and petty
tyranny they saw everywhere around them,
and that WentAvorth particularly, as one
<>f the native-born, yearned to do something
to sweep away the organised oppression and
injustice that degraded his native land even
m his OAvn eyes, and which must certainly
have struck him witii special force, fresh as
he was from the atmosphere of an English
1 1 uiversify. As we go on we will see that
he never entirely got rid of the results of
this academical traliiTfig, and that the class
raditions he irnbibedt there threAV him out
,f harmony Avith the real Democratic spirit
i,hat sprang up in Australia when coiwictism
jiad passed atvay. But this Avas one of those
things that came later.
> • , •
About tills time— in March, 1824—arrived
also the first Chief Justice, Francis Forbes.
He Wdvght the first Charter of Justice with
him—for the Draconic code promulgated by
Phillip under a gum-tree at the head of
Sydney Cove can scarcely be called by that
name. It was a fortunate circumstance that
this worthy Judge arrived about the same
time as Wentworth and Warded, for, as we
shall see, they mutually strengthened each
other’s hands, and in the long run worked
together for the eventual emancipation of
the populace. Forbes, before leaving Eng-
land, had been entrusted with the duty of
drawing up a Charter for New South Wales,
and it is to him that the settlement owes its
first steps towards those representative in-
stitutions and the right of trial by jury that
came afterwards. The strongest proof of
the extreme bad faith with which Australian
history has been compiled and the fraudu-
lent spirit in which it has been written, is
provided by the fact that so little mention
has been made of the name of our first Chief
Justice. The same reasons that made the
names of the Macarthurs and the gaoler-
governors prominent in our historical re-
cords have operated to suppress such names
as that of our first Chief Justice.
• * *
Chief Justice Forbes was a Bermudan,
and his career in the colony is a strange in-
stance of a colonial official breaking away from
his early surroundings and training to re-
cognise the justice of popular claims. He
came to Sydney on the departure on Judge
Field, and the first Attorney-General, Mr.
Saxe-Bannistef, and the first Solicitor-
General, Mr. John Stephen, followed him
the same year. His first act on arrival was
to promulgate the Charter of Justice at the
Supreme Court, at Government House, and
in the public market-place. This Charter,
based as we have said on an Act framed
by himself before he left England, was the
first public act that lifted the people of the
colony from the servile position they had
hitherto occupied at the mercy of the irre-
sponsible official and military authorities. The
"STAND AND DELIVER !"
first Legislative Council was established,
consisting of the Lieutenant-Governor,
General Stewart, Judge Forbes, Colonial
SecretaryGoulburn, Surveyor-General Oxley,
James Bowman, and John Macarthur. Any
Act of this Council, in order to become law,
required the certificate of the Chief Justice,
and this prudent proviso worked most bene-
ficially in the public interest later on.
Up to this time no jury of civilians had
ever sat in New South Wales, and when at
the Quarter Sessions Court held at Liver-
pool, on October 14, 1824, Judge Forbes
directed the empanelling of a civil jury for
the first time, the magistrates, following the
traditions of the class to which they almost
exclusively belonged, refused their consent
to this measure of reform. The matter was
argued in the Supreme Court before the
Chief Justice, who decided against these ob-
structive magistrates. It will be seen that
this innovation was actually forced on the
colony, in a measure, in opposition to the
will of the leading colonists themselves. At
the sitting of the" Supreme Court next year
a jury was again empanelled, but this time
the Pure Merinos tried another stratagem
When the lists were made known it was
found that' the Emancipists were entirely
unrepresented. Wentworth and Wardell
had brought out with them to the colony a
small printing-plant, with which they started
the Australian newspaper on October 14,
1824 —about a month after their arrival.
The Australian took up the cau e of the
Emancipists, and pointed out the glaring in-
justice of a jury-list so framed. The Eman-
cipists placed their case in the hands of
Wentworth and Warded, who made an ap-
plication to the Court to call on the Sheriff
to show cause why certain submitted names
should not be inserted in the jury-list.
Chief Justice Forbes was compelled to rule
against this application on a technical
ground, and for a time the movement for
popular jury rights fell through.
* * *
Two years later, at a public meeting held
in the Court-house, this right of juries was
again brought up by Wentworth, and a peti-
tion was drawn up and sent home. By this
time ex-Governor Brisbane had returned to
England, and he used his interest in favour
of the popular movement. Sir James Macin-
tosh was induced to present the petition to
the Commons, and in his speech he referred
to the evidence of Governors Macquarie and
Brisbane and Chief Justice Forbes to prove
that New South Wales was now as ripe for
the enjoyment of popular rights and privi-
leges as any other dependency of the British
Crown. But it was not until the time of
Governor Bourke that the right of trial by
jury was fully recognised in its complete
form.
* * w
In the meantime, circumstances were pre-
paring the colony and its people for the
struggle for popular privileges on which they
were about to enter. Those who formed the
rank-and-file of the population now saw
themselves for the first time a power in the
community. They had the most unbounded
confidence in the two young men whom a
happy chance had given them for then-
leaders. Through them the voice of the
population at large was articulately given
forth, and the unfortu-
nates who had hitherto
cringed under the lash
of their masters now
found their wants and
opinions actually pub-
lished and put forward
in a newspaper of their
own. They welded
their forces together,
and formed the Pa-
triotic Association —
not confined to Eman-
cipists alone, but em-
bracing all those free
immigrants and set-
tlers who looked for-
ward to the time when
the new country they
were opening up should
be freed from the
miseries that cursed
it, and made fit for
their sons and
daughters to live in.
* * *
While the Emanci-
pists had been growing
in numbers and influ-
ence, they were also
growing in wealth. In
many streets of what
is now old Sydney fine
blocks of buildings
reared their stone
fronts in the air, and
it became a not unusual
thing to find names
that were first heard
in the colony when
they were read from
the manifest of a
prison -ship, .now
flaunting in carven
stone on the coping-
stones of some of these
pretentious edifices.
The poorer settlers and
free immigrants who
had been for some
years in the colony
had also acquired
wealth by this time, but
the exclusive spirit of
the old propertied
classes had, so far, effectually shut them
out from any real influence in the com-
munity. Both these classes, therefore,
fell into line when the Patriotic Association
was formed, and mutually strengthened each
other’s hands. Up to this time, the only
newspaper in the colony was the old Sydney
Gazette, started in 1803; and that journal
did little else than chronicle the proceedings
of officialdom. The first issue of the Aus-
tralian, in the hands of its capable editors,
marked a new departure.
* * »
It was quite a new thing to find any
person of consequence in Botany Bay openly
advocating justice and denouncing wrong.
“Impenetrable Majors,” assisted by the
hangman and the flogger, had so cowed and
broken the spirit of the community that
men scarcely ventured to whisper their de-
testation of what they saw around them.
The younger race, born in the colony, had
become so inured to the daily and hourly
sights and sounds of the convict system that
it doubtless, in its limited experience, looked
on what it saw around it as nothing more
than the natural and proper condition of
things. Under such circumstances it can
easily be conceived that the action of Went-
worth and Wardell brought in a tidal wave
of new ideas and popular aspirations that
perhaps gave courage to those who despaired
of the future of Botany Bay, and taugh
those who knew no better that the conditior
of things amongst which they lived was a
false and cruel one, and that something
better might be won by fighting for it.
• • *
Wentworth was a young Australian, as we
have seen, and Wardell a young English
gentleman. Trained and bred among asso-
ciations of culture and fine sympathetic in-
fluences, it was but natural that they should
have been both sickened and disgusted at
the state of things, which merely to describe
leaves such a nasty taste in the mouth of the
writer of Australian history. The task
before them must have appeared a hopeless
one, at the best, and it is something to
say of the bull-dog courage of these
young fellows that they did not shrink
back from the very first collision Avith the
constituted authority. How much their
perseverance is due to the action of Judge
Forbes it is, of course, hard to estimate
noAV. But it will be seen from what is to
follow in the neAV chapter of history we are
about to open that to the first Chief Justice
.s really due the credit of the first steps that
raised the colony from the slough of
officialism and convictism into which it h
fallen. Before we enter on the story of
the long constitutional struggle which was
now about to commence, there is one more
episode to be dealt with which will put the
positions of both parties in a clear light.
• *
When Governor Brisbane left the colony
in December, 1825, he Avas succeeded by
Lieutenant-General Ralph Darling. His re-
putation had preceded him to Botany Bay.
When he landed, the croAvd of people who
had assembled to see the neiv Governor
clustered silently about the wharf, and re-
frained from cheering. Darling entered on
his vice-royalty at once, and from the very
first he seems to have given the populace no
reason to repent of the coldness of the re-
ception they accorded him. During his
term of rule he came into conflict succes-
sively with the Chief Justice, with the Press,
Avith the Patriotic Association and its
leaders, and generally Avith the people
as a whole. He Avas a man after the Pure
Merinos’ oavu heart, and no man could have
been selected by the Home Office at this
juncture whose personality and opinions
were better calculated to harass and exacer-
bate the public sentiment of the people of
the young colony, or precipitate the free in-
stitutions that his irksome rule Avas largely
‘ instrumental in calling into existence. The
chief sufferers from the tyrannical rule of
this “Bashaw,” as he was called, were the
unhappy prisoners avlio laboured in the
chain-gangs of the colony. The soldiers of
the regiments on service in Ncav South
Wales were almost as badly treated ; and it
is in connection Avith two of these that the
following story is told.
Co-operation and Land Nationalisation.
Dear Bulletin, —In asking the favour of a few
lines of space in what I am proud to hold as one
of the most Australian and patriotic institutions
of our young country, I have to apologise for the
necessity that compels my writing over a nom-de
plume. A correspondent, signing himself
“ Enigma,” writes to you on the above subject
from Charters Towers (Q.). lat once acknow-
ledge that I am sorry to differ from the reasoning
of a man whose desire for the emancipation of
labour every “white” Australian must agree
with. “Enigma” asks, “Do you not think
that the hour has come to advocate
Labourer v. Capitalist along with its true
complement, Labourer v. Landholder, in real
earnest ? ” And he goes on to distinctly con-
demn those who aver (as I do) that the Capitalist
is not the clog on the wheel of Progress, but only
the oil which smooths its workings. Now, lam
one of those who look upon the doctrine of land-
taxation, or nationalisation, as perfected by our
great brother, Henry George, as the most oppor-
tune, lucid, and grand remedy ever conceived for
the evils which our advanced civilisation has
brought in its train. I would grapple with this
one fundamental evil, and compel the land-glut-
tons to disgorge. My early associations have
been peculiarly exempted from the wailings of
the have-naughts, chiefly owing to grants, &c., of
land in this country. But, like Paul, I believe I
see a light from heaven above the brightness of
the sun T I look upon the Capitalist almost as our
brother in affliction —when his wealth is not or
has not been (how few are the instances !) directly
or indirectly gained from some form of land mono-
poly. Not to “monopolise” your space further,
I would earnestly ask “ Enigma ” —as population
grows larger and larger, does not rent (of land)
Bow larger and larger, and wages (the rent of
hour), and interest (the rent of capital) smaller
and smaller? Yours truly, “Atjstbal.”
Mr. Labouchere once produced a play by
Charles Reade. The opening night the author and
the manager sat together in a box. The play did
not take well. “ They seem to be hissing, Mr.
Reade,” said “ Labby ” when the audience became
particularly demonstrative in their hostility.
"What of that?” returned the illustrious writer ;
11 if you want to please such a public as this you
should not come to me for a play.”
Sir John Pope Hennessey, late Governor
of the Mauritius, has a little three-page article in
the current Nineteenth Century on the Chinese
question in Australia, He has a slap at the
Foreign Office* for interfering with Australia s
right in the matter, and he contends that if the
Foreign Office and the House of Commons would
only leave Australia at liberty to do so the various
Australian Governments would either veto or
minimise Chinese immigration at once. He con
aiders that the prohibition of Chinese immigra-
tion by Australia would be viewed with indiffer-
ence, and probably with satisfaction, by the
people and governing authorities of China. This
conclusion is based on the information he gained
from prominent Chinese officials during his (Su
John Pope Hennessey’s) sojourn in the country as
Governor of Hongkong. Recent published docu
ments containing the opinions of the Bung Hi and
Sin Fats who visited Australia in the interests ol
the immortal Pagoda tend to dispel this notion erf
Sir John'*.


FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
the UB6 Of OliKMßNTS’Frboklbbanb.
Frecklebane ie the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the Inventor, F. M. Clbmbnts’, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and alt chemists.
s|wart of worthless Imitations
Public Notice.
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY.
In consequence of loyal and Imperialistic ten-
dencies having developed amongst the junior
members of the machine-room, The Bulletin
will next week be issued on Wednesday instead of
Thursday (24th May) to enable the editor to
suppress the insurrection.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Rotai..— “ Dorothy ” p. 16.
Her Majssty’B Theatre.—" Fauat ”
Criterion Theatre.—" School For Scandal”
Gaiety Theatre.— ■“ Foiled ” „
Rotal Standard Theatre.— Burlesque Company
Alhambra Music Hall.—Minstrelsy
After being carried out insensible under
the oppressive influence of a number of ninth-rate
shows which have been fired at us in five con-
tinents, and which only stopped there because the
supply of continents had run out, the “ School
for Scandal, ” which underwent a resurrection at
Sydney Criterion last Saturday, steals over our
weary spirit like the sweet strains of a barrel-
organ in the gentle spring. Sheridan’s comedy is
one of the few literary productions which promise
to last for ever. Even the memorable utterances
of the Prince of Wales are dying away in the
halls of memory ; and many impromptu observa-
tions which he has dashed off as he fell over a
clothes-line in the grey dawn of the morn-
ing, while trying to strike the back
door of Buckingham Palace, have been
covered over by the leaves of the upas-tree of ob-
livion and lost to posterity. A sinful world has
gone so far as to fix a cold, arrogant eye on the
“Journal in the Highlands.” I. Reginald Cohen
gets out of the train at Sydney railway station,
and a nation which has forgotten his writings
sends no brass band to greet him, and no enthu-
siastic multitude treads a thousand human beings
underfoot in the efforts to get a glimpse of his
features ; and the poems of Halloran are thrown
contemptuously at the midnight goat. We
weep over these things, and ask sorrowfully why
Halloran should be taken while Sheridan is left.
* • *
The “School for Scandal,” is a piece
which never grows old, and it is played
at the_ Criterion by one of the strongest
companies which ever struck this part of
the planet. Titheradge’s Charles Surface is a
perennial howl of gaiety, and he makes that young
man scream with a joy which seems to extend
right down to his boots. J. E. Cathcart is
appropriately old and pompous as the moss-grown
Teazle, and the tear of pathos which hangs at the
end of his nose seems genuine. Cecil Ward has
at last shaken off the oppressive influence of Tom
Jones, and though his eyes at times look like two
middle-sized revolving dinner-plates, the public
has, to a great extent, overcome the desire to have
something done to him which oppressed it on one
or two previous occasions. Lady Teazle, as
enacted by Mrs. Robert Brough, is a pleasant
creature with a far-away look in her eyes and a
hat the size of a large book, and in the scene
where her character is wrecked behind a
screen she becomes an influence for good
which can hardly be overrated. Miss E,
Romer, Miss Lucia Harwood, Mr. H. R.
ditto, Miss M. Appleton, and Boucicault junr.
comprise the rest of the talent in this combination,
and their weighty observations are backed up by
an orchestra and a lavish display of upholstery.
** * *
The tattered head of yet another bur-
lesque dawns this week at Sydney Royal Standard,
where “ Camaralzaman ” is successfully paying
the gas-bill and wasting good dictionary-English
on the field of the Australian intellect. “ Camaral-
zaman,” like the ordinary run of burlesques, has
no plot, and if it possessed one the chances are
that the author would have blown himself up
with it, and wrecked the stage, and driven the
cornet into the vitals of the man who devours the
end of that instrument in the orchestra, so that
the notes would have had to be picked out of his
dismantled frame with a fork. But “Camaralza-
man ” is a pretty good burlesque all the same—as
burlesques go. There is no sense in it, and very
little grammar, and no good songs worth speaking
of, and the music isn’t worth very much, and it
makes the listener grow sadder and sadder and
more depraved as it goes on, until he longs with
an awful longing to go out and boil his father, and
kerosene all his relations, and get drunk, and go
into Parliament, and wallow in infamy, and be pre-
eminent in grief, and steal the last turnip from a
family of 10 orphans ; but as it shares these
features of degradation with most other burlesques
■at is not worth while enlarging on them. The
process by which burlesques are compounded is at
once simple and effective. In the first act it is
advisable to have a heathen god putting on his
last clean shirt and fixing it together with a nail,
while an emperor with three heads and 17 legs and
a devil without any head at all, are trying to drive
a cow out of the front garden. This makes a very
effective tableau, especially if a Chinaman is
Btudk in the chimney, and an angel is sitting on
the coals downstairs. If the playwright is up to
his work he shows a bathing machine fighting
with a pigs’-trotter man in the next act, and then
he throws them both over a precipice and leaves the
audience to sort out their impressions. A bur-
lesque doesn’t need to happen anywhere in par-
ticular, which is a blessing, for if the author
mentioned the name of any country as the spot
where his incidents took place, a bloodthirsty
international struggle would inevitably ensue;
and in many cases it is even ad visable to conceal
the name of the author himself lest an infuriated
city should offer to lick him for two stamps.
The leading thinkers of the age have fre-
quently observed that a highly successful
burlesque is invariably written by a man
who is a long way off and who is never
coming back any more; but when this precaution
cannot be observed, the next best thing is for the
writer to lie low in a tank and say nothing till the
: proceedings are over. Miss Amy Horton’s success
In burlesque lies greatly in the fact that her
beauty and talent draw off public attention till
the literary man has time to get away. Miss Eva
Clements bears a hand in this good work with
great success, and Miss Marie Brooks, a new ar-
rival at the Standard, also does something to alle-
viate the popular ferocity. A grand fairy ballet
helps to give the misguided citizen a start.
“ Dorothy,” described in the advertise-
ment of Sydney Royal as “ the most remarkable
success of the present century,” which, we remark
in passing, is villainously rough on the century,
travels persistently along. “ Faust,” however,
goes the way of all drama next Saturday, and de-
parts to that bourne which is paved with five-act
things that somebody has dashed off at the
hazard of his immortal soul. “ Clancarty ” fol-
lows. “ Foiled ”is completing the second week
at the Gaiety, but the city is plastered all over
with nightmares in a multitude of colours
which set forth that “ Current Cash ”
will be produced on Saturday. On the
same night Rickards’ “truly great company,” to
quote the burning language of the advertisement,
will throw themselves on the hospitality of the
Australian nation at the Opera House ; and Miss
Rose Clifford’s musical comedy company will pro-
duce “High Jinks”—from the fluent quill of
Lance Lenton—at the Academy of Music. With
this long list of coming events in prospect we
pause with a Fiendish Smile —so frequently and
ably depicted in the columns of a certain classical
evening contemporary —on our features, and await
results.
** # *
The Coogee Aquarium has been expanded
regardless of expense, until it ranks as the finest
institution of its kind in the vicinity of Sydney.
The Japanese Village, with wild foreign acrobatic
performances attached, is an unfailing attraction ;
and a perennial skating carnival, with Sunday
concerts thrown in—until Porkes wakes up to
realise their soul-destroying iniquity and places
the mighty dimensions of his foot upon them
—snare the cultured multitude. Sundry huge
fish of various descriptions inhabit the shark-
pond, and most of the time 10 0r.12 well-dressed
human beasts with imbecile grins on their wooden
countenances stand round and slyly hit them with
MISS LILY DAMPIER
sticks and stones, while sundry “ ladies ” with
birds and other animals in their hats call up
pleasant smiles from the tender heart of woman
and remark that it is “ such fun.”
*# # *
“ Alone in London ” suffered a big revival
at Melbourne Royal on Saturday night. Half of
this strong drama was written by the poetic
Buchanan, and it is hung together with the skill
of a master’s hand. When you get on the trail of
the various characters they can be followed right
away through. Nobody pops up at a critical
moment without providing a tangible reason for
being present, and the sensation scene is solidly
built up. Taken altogether, the company comes
Up to last year’s form, and would be better if Mr.
Charles Holloway didn’t talk so much like brother
William, in his capacity of first villain. Pretty
Mrs. Bland Holt is weaker, but less monotonous,
than Miss Kate Bishop in the leading part, and
her illustrious husband fills his old place more
funnily than ever. A tremendous “ push” sat and
stood everywhere but in the dress-circle, where an
aesthetic sassiety was conspicuous by its absence,
because us best people can’t abear them meller-
drammers nohow.
*# ♦ *
“Hans the Boatman” is going better
than ever at the Bijou. Further investigation
into the wherefore of this boom discovers several
factors in the sum total of success, besides Mr.
Arnold and the four-year-old lady he brought out
with him. There is a human plot to “ Hans ”
that puts it considerably in front of Emmett’s
“ Fritz ’’ or the “ My Sweetheart,” in which Mr.
Arnold created Tony. He is tony enough in this
show, but his songs and dances fit in with the sur-
roundings, instead of looking as though they were
dragged out of a music-hall and dropped down
promiscuously. Nothing too nice can be said of
the company, now that the melancholy M'Lean
has been bartered for something a little better.
Mac. ought to be a solemn warning to managers
henceforth and for ever. Perhaps his engagement
was facilitated by the fact that the same azure-
tinted gore ran in his veins and in those of his
Uncle Beaufort, but, from an acting point of view,
the dock’s nephew was so badly connected that he
fell to pieces all the time
At the Heir Apparent’s levee
Giddy Duke of Beaufort’s nevvy
Can play the very heavy,
Like a swell;
But in parts that put a strain
On his brain, it’s pretty plain
He will not appear again.
For a spell.
Miss Myra Kemble is better than the lilies of the
field as the romantic society girl who marries
Hans because he looks like a corsair and loves
children. Also Miss Pattie Brown has a fas-
cinating say in all the trouble, and sings and
dances like an artist. Mr. Leake is a minor tower
of strength, another strong support in a position
of much difficulty being Mr. Sidney. The others
are rather put in the shade by a St. Bernard dog
with a natural talent for sitting down a.t the right
moment. “The Barrister ” has caught on re-
spectably at the Princess’s, and the Alexandra
case begins to look hopeless. Ada Ward is going
to seek the bubble reputation somewhere else
shortly.
*# * *
One week of bad business at the Adelaide
Royal quite satisfied Harry Rickards, and the es-
tablishment closes for another five nights, after
which the bold Australian author-actor will essay
a short season, commencing with the worn-out
and threadbare “ Sunny South,” to be followed
by the blood-jumping drama, “ Hue and Cry,”
R. S. Smythe announces lectures to be given by
Miss Yon Finkelstein, the opening sermon to be
“The Homes and Haunts of the Saviour.” Miss
Yon Finkelstein was a passenger by the Orizaba,
which has just arrived from England.
•* ♦ *
The Jungfrau Kapelle—which means nine
gentlemen and five ladies from a snow-peaked
mountain in the land of old W. Tell —are filling
Melbourne Town Hall every night till Saturday.
The wild sweetness which these children of Nature
fetch from the innermost recesses of their chests
is not all spent in jodel. Mark Twain commenced
by paying Swiss boys to jodel, but ultimately
paid more boys not to jodel• at all. The Kapelle
never reach the stage when you want them to
leave off. They sing first and jodel by way of
chorus. They extract melting melodies from
weird, peculiar instruments of their own design,
playing all the instruments better than everybody
else, and each better than the other one. Separ-
ately and all together the J ungfrau Kapelle con-
stitute a unique show with an uncommon faculty
for making the novelty hum from the outset.
«* * »
At Melbourne Opera House, swept and
garnished for the festive occasion, Miss Amy
Sherwin started a 12 weeks’ campaign in fairly
promising style. The Governor’s party beamed a
well-bred smile upon the proceedings, and many
cut blossoms were hurled at the pruna donna by
admirers who had thoughtfully bought up a
florist’s stock in anticipation of her triumph.
Most of the tributes fell at Amy’s fair feet, but
one went astray and lighted on an inoffensive
fiddler. In the course of the ceremony, Miss
Sherwin publicly shook hands with sundry gentle-
men, including Herr Scherek in the orchestra, but
she neglected to blow a kiss to Lady Loch, whose
presence largely contributed to the merits of the
“Bride of Lammermoor,” sung in well-articulated
English. As the crazy bride, Miss Sherwin
proved to be unexpectedly strong in the stage
business of the part, and her vocalising was as
utterly free from reproach as the behaviour of an
elderly maiden lady at a sewing-party. This
simile might be extended as regards a certain
want of tenderness in both cases. Miss Sherwin’s
singing (corroborees in the lady’s honour notwith-
standing) appeals to the ear of the musical critic
without quite touching the heart of the debased
outsider who knows what he wants, but can’t ex-
press the void in jargon. It is her misfortune to
warble considerably in company with Mr. Alfred
Wilkie, a leading tenor who appeals to the senses
of just nobody at all. His voice may have been
rich • and full before it became poor and
flat, but from boyhood upwards Mr. Wilkie
has been personally as unimposing as a
potato. However, apart from his limited
stature and waxworks type of headpiece,
Mr. Wilkie acts up to the company’s satisfactory
standard. The baritone, Mr. Avon Saxon, pleases
in all respects, and the basso, Mr. Arthur Hub-
bard, seems a worthy scion of the old lady-who
couldn’t give her dog a bone because it wasn’t
there. Miss Minna Fischer is a substantially
delicious Alice, the chorus dress and group rather
better than they sing, and scenic appointments
fairly beat the orchestra for harmony on the open-
ing night. When a better understanding is estab-
lished between the violins and trombones, and the
tenor has been exchanged for two fivers, this
toot onsongble may justify an increase of half-a-
dollar in the price of circle-tickets.
** # *
Signor Tessero’s French Comedy Company
open at the Freemasons’ Hall, Melbourne, on
Saturday. They play three light and airy trifles,
*# * *
The Arcus has clipped another ridiculous
paragraph from some American paper stating that
there are “ upwards of 475 music-halls ” in Lon-
don. This sort of thing encourages new-chum
cockneys to sneer at Australian ignorance of the
everlasting dear old mother country. There are
not 50 music-halls—as the term is generally under-
stood—in all London, and the odd 425 would have
to include obscure “gaffs” and public-house par-
lours, where dilapidated beer-swillers hold harmony-
meetings.
## * *
Beckett, a Cardiff showman, cut his throat
because a local murderess wasn’t hanged. Poor
Beckett had wagered all his real and personal
estate that the lady would be strung up. The
prison chaplain is bound to draw a beautiful moral
from this incident, but we can’t.
*# * *
James Payn says, in the Melbourne Argus,
that “ Shakespeare, it appears, was mistaken in
describing the clay of the great Alexander as
stopping a hole to keep the wind away. ” Not at
all. Mr. Payn was the person who “ was mis-
taken.” Dr. Neild or James Smith could have
told him that poor Shakespeare never said any
such thing of Alexander. He said something,
however, like that of “Imperial Ccesar, dead and
turned to clay,” and they haven’t found great
Caesar’s body yet.
#* * *
H. J. King, of Sydney, the composer of
the cantata for the Melbourne Exhibition, is son
of Mr. Edward King, the violinist, of Melbourne.
For 30 years past, King, senr., has never been
absent from a concert by the Melbourne Philhar-
monic Society.
** * *
German Reed, founder of the innocuous
“entertainments” which still bear his name at a
London hall, has just “pegged out” at the age of
three score years and ten. German Reed’s show,
we may mention, was financially run by his
brother, partner in a swell tailoring business.
The brother died this year, and has probably been
acting as German’s advance-agent on the Golden
Shore.
## * *
Many middle-aged Australians may have
heard their progenitors talk about Herr Formes
and his beautiful basso. That traditional voice is
now being lifted in opera at Drury Lane Theatre,
after an interval of 30 years. The Herr is 73.
** * *
We read that American actresses “ are
having’diamonds set in their front teeth.” We
were just thinking of doing this ourselves. No-
thing but a diamond would cut the steak at our
hash-house.
Jnstion Williams’ Warning.
The rapid growth of larrikinism in our colony
is such as to startle every thoughtful mind, and
the means which will expeditiously exterminate
this monster from our midst will be hailed with
delight.
Persuasion, entreaty, and leniency, only seem
to serve as incentives to repeated violations of the
law against both person and property.
Justice Williams’ recent sentences of warning
were welcomed, and all honour and praise should
be given to the man in position who dares to do
his duty.
But there are occasional sentences passed upon
those who are afterwards proved to be entirely
innocent, and such cases are deserving of sympathy.
An instance where the sentence of death was
passed upon a hard-working, honest, industrious
man, who came very near being the victim of
circumstances, has recently come under our notice,
and should serve as a “ warning. ”
Mr. John Oarey, who now resides at 142 Argyle-
street, Fitzroy, writes that in May last year he
heard the harsh sentence of death passed upon
himself. He states : —My “attention was awaken
ed by an uncontrollable thirst, a craving appetite,
serious combind with great disorder
of the digestive organs, weakndss in loins, frequent
calls to pass large quantities of urine. The
amount of fluid passed in 24 hours averaged 12
pints and contained saccharine matter. There
was no doubt that I was stricken with the dread
diabetes in its worst form. Mr. Booth, chemist,
of Smith-street, Collingwood, recommended me
to use Warner’s sate diabetes cure, the specific for
that complaint. I procured it with Warner’s safe
pills, adhering to the diet as directed in the circular
surrounding the medicine, avoiding all starchy
and saccharine food. There was no marked im-
provement in my condition until I had taken
about fifteen bottles of the medicine, at which
stage my mis°ry was alleviated, and the excessive
discharge of the urine somewhat diminished. The
distressing symptoms, such as parched mouth, and
great thirst, also disappeared and pointed to a
recovery. I have now used fifty bottles of Warner’s
safe diabetes cure, with about twelve vials of
Warner's safe pills, and as a result, I am pleased
to affirm that the quantity of fluid passed is again
normal, and I have no hesitation in certifying
that Warner’s safe diabetes cure saved my life. °
All should take the precaution to avoid having a
similar sentence pronounced upon them.


gUFFBRERS FROM RHEUMATISM.
The CELEBRATED
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
A Patent and Pleasant Remedy.
This popular stimulant has been proved to afford
Circa! Relief in RHEUMATISM and ROUT.
It SOOTHES the NERVES by its gently
diffusive properties, ALLAYS IRRITATION by
its quieting effects, and, TONING- the SYSTEM,
STRENGTHENS the ORGANS so as to perfect
functional action.
S3F There is nothing known better calculated to
invigorate the constitution than
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whim
Pathnt Rom,hr Fr,otm. It is the ereatest success of the
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-whitb Patent
Rot.i.bb Flops. and pour broad will ho an whito aa snow.
Pepper
And
Salt
Dear Bulletin, —I rite to draw yqor at-
t mshun to a propoged silver mine in this town
which is a place in the vicinity of Burk and Burk
aint much of a town to be in the vicinity of but is
a good place to get away from in a hury when you
h ive got the time to,hury wich isn’t always owin’
t x Freetrade and other combustibles. I was the
diskuvererer of the propoged mine and waz
ophered a hundred £ for it, and akordinly I road
into Burk to telegraf and ask if I shoud take it or
if I should hit the man who maid the opher in the
i which I would have done cheerfully he being
Irish which is a race that I hav a down on my
s mtiments being to hell with the Pop who in my
opinion is a lo charakter and 1 here he isn’t aloud
to marry which I supose is on akount of the here-
ditary instinks which he mite transmit to his
posterritee if he was aloud to hav any. Butt as
soon as I sent the telegraf thepublik came tearing
hout an’ rushed the ground as fast as they koud in
horses an tip karts an draze an bugles an on therown
feet an uther animiles, an won objek in human shape
that hiz own mother would shudder at aproached
in the silens ov the nite an cut doun my own tree
and peged out my own klame with the splinters
an hawled out my pegs an throu them to bloo
blazes an then i waz awok by the midnite whoop
of the ineebreated sittizen az he pxit his hed throu,
the windo of my humbell residens most of the
pains bein broken an the vakancies stuphed with
old hats and tolled me with a hijious leer on hiz
battered kountenance what he had did. I went/
out an viewed the lanskape. Az far az i could
reach men wer pegin out ground. Too of them
had fel over each other in ther haste* and ther.
name was Bob Tunstall and Terence Hoolagan an
the polees wich was also, Irish was neerly mad
over it and won of them,seezed a womans aks in
the fray an forgpt to bring it back in consekens of
wjiich she , was competed to chop wood with
her teeth and uther helthie exercise. Evry
man as wawked up that gullie had number 10
boots and Buck Ferguson had number 12s wich he
had probbly bot when the storkeepper wassnt
looking for he laffed a Fiendish Laff when ! asked
him were he got them from, and in his delirium
he went and painted Clod Save oiir Bleeding-
Country on the hinder part of the gote belongin
to the woman as lost the aks thereby desplajin
his iggorance and bein gilty of contempt of dote
ap pffens as aught to bee krushed. And the town
went of its hed an nearly brok its neck an a new
pub was oppened on the strenth of it therby tendin
to demmoralise the kommunity and the whoops of
tjie digers waz herd in the atmosfere for 40 daze
an 40 nites an-awlmost every kat in the district
was‘fetched with a brik. It wasnt til they had
dun whoopiu an cussia that they started to digg
all; then the town was filed with eggsasperashun
a*n' men were lyin on ther stumaks blas-
femin al over the plase for there wasnt even
a kuler to be found for 5 hundred miles round an
meenwhile they had tramped my frontgard” in
hard for nuthing and wun of my hens was sick for
two weeks an ultimately dyed in grate agony.
Seven of the digers boroad the bakers horse to
gett away on an nearly road the auimile to doth,
an when they had gott to the plas wich they were
goin to an wich I preshume was a pub owin to the
smell, of the horse when he kam back the same
leedin to the opiniun that they had, been chuckin
likkerat him for a wager they gave him a kik in
the wind an lefft him to find his own way home
wich he did after livin on his own tale for a week.
If you woud be so kind as to publish this at wqnse
in order to prevent -nther peeple from doin like- .
wise which ought to be suppressed our poleece
Astern bein no vise while most of them is Irish an
consekently not to be relied on owin to the Poap.
—Yours, Titus Salt.
* * *
The police force isn’t a new subject by any
means, but there are some features of this refresh-
ing institution which seem to have been unac-
countably neglected by poets and others. There-
fore do l we rise to ensnare the public in the spring-
time of its strength, lest, occupying the outer
bank of ignorance, it may remain blind to the
hidden aspects of the thoughtful officer until the
arrival of the millennium, a subject which we
aren’t very sure about but which we believe has
something to do with a lion lying down with a
lamb, or Parkes putting aside £lOOO a year of his
official salary for the benefit of the creditors of his first
bankruptcy. Without getting any further into the
tangled forest of speech we now proceed to engage
in the remark that the policeman, as a medium for
the desecration of paving-stones and an instru-
ment for leaning up against the outside of public
buildings, also a power for the dissemination of
early piety in the trackless wilds of the not re-
cognisable or the far distant, has long been
seriously underrated by an obtuse nation. His
littlemite, asitlooms up in the pay-sheet of asolemn
department, is a valuable integer in the in-
solvency schedule of a sober community, but we
prefer to regard the trap from a more etherealstand-
point as a valuable adjunct to true re-
ligion, and as the unsleeping influence
which whoops up the rear of our fast-
expiring civilisation, and sits on the head of a
dying world as it drifts away into infinite unend-
ingness. We composed these few ideas one day
while viewing an officer who slumbers standing in
the locality of East Melbourne, and whose only
visible means of support consists in shoring up
houses in that suburb and standing his animated
vacancy against walls that are as blank as himself.
He seldom gapes, being too weary to open his
mouth, but now and then he is heard to regret
that he wasn’t born with it open so that he might
yawn all the time without fatiguing the top of his
head. About (i p.m., however, he becomes in-
fected with a sort of spurious activity, and trails
himself in a cloud of dust round the corner. We
asked him one day, in a spirit of disguised derision,
theway to thestreet he was standing in, and though
he had slept in that thcroughfaie for years
he couldn’t tell for the life of him where it was.
Ultimately he got an old woman to point
him out to himself, and when he found out
his own position he wanted to lock us up
for riotous conduct in a public place. We re-
treated slowly, and lured him away so far from
his accustomed haunts that he couldn’t find his
way back if he tried for years, and then we started
to run and left him asleep up against a stable, and
threatening in his dreams to run a tramcar in for
beiner drunk an’ disorderly an’ striking me, your
Wash up.
* * *
The secretary of a Farmers’ Progress As-
sociation on the Richmond River (N.S.W.) wrote
to the local newspaper correspondent, the other
day, charging him with having the cacoethes
scribendi, and a great mental capsize ensued.
The parochial journalist tramped fiercely into the
next meeting of the Association, and, thumping
down the letter in front of the President—a pure-
bred Australian named Hans Kopf demanded to
know what that body meant by saying he had'
hydrophobia; he had come there, he added, to
vindicate his character, and he wanted the letter
read to the meeting. But the President looked at
the long word in the middle of the document, and
judiciously got out of the way, for he knew he
couldn't pronounce it even if anybody offered him
a hotel to do it. He stated, therefore, that “in the
boseeshun which he oggubied it would-be iitfrd
diggens to read any gorrespondence' which was'
not brought officially before the gompany, but
%
HE HATED MEDICINE.
FATHER: “NEVER SHUN WORK, MY BOY; IT ACTS LIKE MEDICINE.!"
SON (recently over closed with drugs): “I HATE MEDICINE.”
the eggsbression that the excitement was about
meant a disease which Pasteur had sent out to
gill the rabbits, and if the gorrespondent had it
there was little hope of regovery.” The meeting
then passed a vote of sympathy, and the offended
journalist went home feeling very pale, and put
his feet in hot water.
• * *
An up-country correspondent sends us
this :—Old Snooks and his son-in-law were seated
before the fire, smoking, and discussing the < 1 eorge
theories of land taxation, while Larry Doolan, a
neighbour of much substance, puffed away at his
pipe in silence, and Doolan’s dog lay asleep on the
mud floor dreaming of a ’possum-hunt. Suddenly
the dog awoke with a start, looked up, and began
to bark excitedly. Doolan just caught that dog
one almighty kick that made him see sparks, and
ejaculated—“ Shut up, you blank blanky fool.
You don’t know a condemned bit more about it
than those darned idiots do.” Old Snooks doesn’t
lend Doolan his new shot-gun now', and Snooks’
youngest boy has fallen out with the swing of
Doolan’s gate.
* * *
An inquisitive lad in Melbourne Herald
office, where there always has been an enquiring
youth, not knowing the difference between
salary and wages, referred the question to Sam.
Power, king of the local “devils.” “ Well,” said
Sam., after a pause, “when a fellow works on an
empty stomach and wears a paper collar like our
junior reporters, it’s salary ; when a man works
in an apron, drinks 20 long ’uns a day, and takes
home a leg of mutton at night like the chaps in
the stereo, rooms, then its icages.”
* * *
There dwells a Hebrew up South
who recently worked at burrcutting. He
W'as not much at “hard graft”—in fact, he was
“sacked” at the end of the week, but still he was
regarded as a manual-labour curiosity—like Dick
the Chinaman, who could shear 250 sheep a day,
being, in fact, “ ringer ” of the colonies, and who
associated not with other Chows, but knocked
down his cheque like any white man. But the
Hebrew nature asserted itself the other day.
When the annual grant of blankets was served out
to the aboriginals, ho bought five bottles of ruuu
and now he owns twenty-four blankets.
• •
After “ sixndowning ” a place two or three
times, it is necessary to change one’s name. The
same takes place when a station-hand is afraid ch
being remembered by the manager, for perhaps-
he has not left the place dean as it is called.
Strange to say, although tin; ordinary whaler
despises a man of education, he always asks a
nilvertail man for a new “monaker.” There are
now two mates on the Yanko called “Flotsam”
and “ Jetsam.” Two others have chosen Thomas
Deum and Daniel Profundus. The latter are
foreigners. One very curious cognomen is Con-
Ticuere, and another B. D’Akeon. From this we
infer that some classic wag has patrolled Jacky
Dow’s Land.
* *
Dear Bulletin, —“ Faces and footsteps
and all things changed.” It rings like Mrs,
Hemans, but it applies to the Murrumbidgee.
This seems to be the motto adopted by the
grovellers in this Jubilee and Centennial time.
The whalers have become infected, and have ac-
tually changed the naqies of their institutions.
We all know that toe-rags were called “ i\lbj-rts ”
in deference to Saxe-Coburg, who came soclplcss
to England. They are now called “ Jubilees.”
There, now ! The swag is no longer ‘ 1 Blu°y ” or
“Matilda 1 .” It is called the “ Centcnpijal.” B.ut
the greatest flpnkeyism of all is that a pint of
flour is called “Carington Tooth-powder.” If
y6u meet a man short of weed, he says “ I’m pre-
eminent in grief.” When two men mix their
small allowance, it is named “Federation”; if
they hold baking-powder, it is “Imperial ditto.”
There is sometimes a grim humour in the names,
thus Smoking tea-leaves as tobacco is called
doing a “ Parkes Insolvency”; a man without a
swag is called “a poor friendless old man”; a
noted liar is called—you know ; one’wh6 holds
and won’t part, is called “ the handmaid Abigail” ;
a good (liberal) cook is a “Grand Old Man,” a bad
one is a “burning brand of shame,” and so on.'
Pass the damper. Scotty the Wkin'kler.
**■'*'
The Australian blackfellows in Western
N.S.W. are learning to smoke opium. It is sold
to them by Chinamen, and it kills thbm. Qqite
right ! The Australian must go 1
Where to c-t disreputable acquaintances.
—On the Block.
The Argus has found what it calls a pre-
cocious boy. He has spent his life standing in
front of trains, raising bogus fire-scares and riding
other people’s horses. We know a smarter boy.
We saw him sell three copies of the Argus one
Saturday forenoon.
In a Melbourne police court, last week, a
woman, who was apt to be sent for 1 rial for
larceny, was asked if she had anything to say.
“I have nothin’ to say, yer Warship,” replied the
prisoned “a lawyer wance tow Id me niver to say
nothin’.” That’s a woman according to Barrister
Hood’s own heart. Hood s lys that his great
difficulty in deff nding a prisoner is “ to get rid of
what the d fool says when he’s arrested.”
A sweet little society item comes from
Salvation circles at Newtown. An apparently
well-educated andrather good-look ingyoung woman
recently held foith. In sketching her life she
described Herself as the daughter of an English
clergyman —that seems to be always the story —
and said she was sent out to the colonies as in-
curable in vice. She professed to have wallowed
in every species of wickedness until she came
across the Army, Who reclaimed her, and now
they have subscribed money enough to pay her
passage to Englamd ,to gladden the hearts of the
fond parents who cast her off as worthless.
The “Curse of Immortality."
(Fob The Bulletin.)
I.
The clouds sank black, and weaves rose black, and 1
the clouds and waves
Breathed hard at touch, breathed cold at touch;
andi, like ghosts from graves,
Game out long shades, at leet sea-noise, and at
head storm-wrack,
And strode from north to south, sea noise and
storm-wrack black
Hanging round low wails, as the wraiths marched on
To a dismal night from a dismal dawn.
The mortal things stayed foot and wing; for the
wails were made
Of ice and night, and froze with fear of the words
unsaid ; ;
For when the march to night was done and the
wraith’s wail died,
A voice, made up of clouds and waves, o’er the
hushed world cried;
And the cry trembled down through the plains
and the seas,
And ached through the hills and wept from the
trees.,
n.
Bptter it were 1 had stayed my hand, .
For ever and ever and ever;
Better it were I had made the land,
The sea and the rolling river.
Idle and waste, with only the foot
On the rocks and plains of the soulless brute ; '
With only the motion of fins in the seas,
With only the movement of wings in the trees ; ■
Better it were I had stayed my hand
With those in the water and these on the land, ■
For ever and ever and ever !
On the green hillside roamed the patient ox, ,
And the royal steed on the mountain ;
In the bosky vale hid the hare and fox,
And the fawn reposed by the fountain ; :
In the thicket dense was the lion’s lair,
And the midnight wood held the wolf and bear,' •
And the vulture on high, and the shark below
Like the mortal lives that their natures know—
Better it were I had stayed my hand
Wich those in the water and these on the land, ,
For ever and ever and ever !
Where the fruit hung ripe in the glen there strayed ’
The youth and the comely maiden,
And the man and the woman and all the glade
With their work and their love was laden. .
They hunted the ox, they hunted the hare, .
They braved the lion at watch in his lair ; :
Through sea and through air they pursued their
prey,
And laughter by night followed work by day—
Better it were I had stayed my hand,
With those in the water and these on the land,
For ever and ever and ever !
But all these perishing, day by day,.
Passing, as passes a river;
Their power of life and tin ir grace .of play .
Dying for ever and ever,
Called up the wish to give eyes so bright
A light that would shine when death brought'
night;
And aside from the brutes I drew man, and breath
On his body breathed, and he mastered Death —
Better it were I had stayed my hand
With the lives in the water, the lives, on the land, '
For ever and ever end ever !
On hills the ox and the steed went on
Living their livps in gladness ; ,
But man, the immortal, arose at dawn
In the gloom of a cankering sadness !
He had lost his kinship vvitlyfish and bird,,'.
He had lost his kinship wit!} flock knd, herd : : :
To his ear each voice bqre.a grating sound,
And his eyes, dissatisfied,, peered around—
Better it were I hac} stayed my hand,
With life as it was in sea and on land,
For ever and ever and ever !
XXL .
Came back long shades, affect sea-noise, and at
h.ead storm wrack.
And strode from south to north sea-noise and
storm-wrack black.
Hanging round low wails asphe wraiths marched on
From a dismal night to a dismal dawn.
The mortal things stayed foot and wing, for the
wails were made
Of night and ice, that froze, with fear of the sad
words said;
And when the march to dawn was done and the
wraiths’ wail died,
The Voice, re-formed qfi, clouds and waves, o’er
the hushed world cried;
And the cry trembled down through the depths of
the seas,
And ached through, the hills and wept from the
trees.
IV.
The immortal to the mortal wed,.!
Makes a dual life of strife and ill ;
For the mortal lives by the mortal will,
And in mental life alone is led.
By the burning light of the endless years ;-,
And the more man lives withhi& eyes above,
All the less he is touched by human love,
Or by human care or by human tears !
So they build me shrines of lime and stone,
And' they crown the piles with spire and dome. ",
And they day, by day unto worship come ;
But the poor they leave to starve alone !
And they day by day say nought is good .
But the unseen things of the unseen land ,
But they day by day thrust greedy hand
For the sounding purse and the steaming food ! !
And they day by day put eternity
In the front of laws they teach and preach ;
But eternal right does at no time, reach
To a higher point than self-int’rests see I. ;
v.
Came back long shades, at feet sea-noise, and at
head storm-wrack.
And stood ; rolled out loud Voice, all waves mixed
with massed clouds black,
And cried ; and ice and night fell down, and the
words went forth
Like tears, like winds, like storms, like bolts, to
the south and north:
“Better it were I had stayed my hand, \
For ever and ever and ever !
His hunger is greater than all the land,
And his thirst than the rolling river ! •
He ravens by day, and the shining sun
Is only a symbol that beckons him on ; •'
Things near he spurns for things afar,
His native earth for an alien star !
Better it were I had stayed my hand
With the life in the water, the life on the land,
For ever and ever and ever !”
Sydney, March 30, 1888.
E. LOWE.


' “ I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
•an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nbllib Palmbr.” Prepared
“only by W. P. GAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown
‘"Obtainable from all Chemists Take no substitute*
Personal Items.
Agent-General Blyth, of S.A., was once a
schoolmaster in N.S.W.
“ Little Bailey ” has been very ill in Lon-
don but has now recovered,
Graham Berry’s second son was married
in Melbourne, the other day, to Miss Katie Bar-
thold.
Mr. J. L. Isaacs, the Melbourne barrister,
has accepted a heavy retainer to appear in Sydney
shortly.
What a model politician could be made
out of Parkes’s head, Dibbs’s body, and Haynes’
interior!
Rev. J. Oswald Dykes, the new Moderator
of the English Presbyterians, was, over 20 years
ago, located in Melbourne.
Frank M‘Coppin, U.S. Commissioner to
Melbourne Exhibition, was, in early life, a mem-
ber of the Irish Constabulary.
Until a few years ago, Kaiser Wilhelm ex-
changed photographs with every pretty woman
whose acquaintance he made.
Carnegie says that ‘‘ no colony ever pro-
duced a great man.” When he wrote this, he
hadn’t heard of Burdett Smith.
Lord Sheffield, who has always been so
hospitable in England to Australian cricketers, is
about to visit us in his own yacht.
Dr. Gardiner, of Adelaide, a little while
ago, completely removed a man’s larynx for can-
cer. The patient is alive and well.
The Rev. Marshall, the new pastor of
Scots’ Church, Melbourne, is six-foot-three long,
and preaches sermons in proportion.
There is a Bishop Luck in New Zealand.
When Maorilanders speak of the devil's own luck,
they don’t allude to this gentleman.
Bob Whitworth, the poet, dramatist,
novelist, and journalist, of Melbourne, is nephew
of the inventor of the Whitworth gun.
Lord Lonsdale’s only companions while in
the region of the North Pole, are to be his man-
servant and a dog. Only a dog to love !
The leading figure in “The First Cloud,”
one of the latest additions to Melbourne National
Gallery, is strikingly like Mr. Harry St. Maur.
Dan. O’Connor, we are glad to hear, is
getting better. He has been suffering from lung-
trouble, aggravated possibly by talking too much.
Rev. G. Tuckwell (11. C.), of Manly,
Sydney, was years ago in the Crown Lands Office,
Melbourne, before he took orders—except from
Morrah.
By name and nature 3 A distinguished
negro belle of Port-au-Prince, Hayti, was recently
married to the brother of William Black, the
novelist,
A Sydney Sunday newsman was once
described by a newchum sub, as “a cockatoo
journalist who aggravated the dulness of the
Sabbath.”
Mr. Chesson, secretary to the Aborigines’
Protection Society, has discreetly expired (in
London) before there were no more aborigines left
to protect,
Henry George is accused by a N. Y. clergy-
man of having stolen his land-tax theories from a
work published at Racine, Wis., in 1859, by
Edwin Burgess.
The late N.S.W. Chief Justice, Sir James
Martin, died intestate, and the Equity Court re-
cently granted an application for the administra-
tion of his estate by the Court.
Sir John Robertson refused to part- seven
shillings to a cabby, and had it totalled up to 225.
—or three days—at a Sydney police court. We
don’t think the old knight “ took it out.”
When George Coppin beat the late Pro-
cessor Hearn at an election for East Melbourne,
’the Argus wept that the electors “ preferred the
low comedian to the constitutional lawyer.”
Dr. Ullathorne, well-known in N.S.W.
Jfifty years ago, has at the age of 84 resigned
’the Roman Catholic Bishopric of Birmingham,
England, which he has occupied for 40 years.
Judge Mein, of Queensland, will not allow
an unbeliever to be sworn as a juror in any court
over which he presides. The delusions of the
dark ages still cling to Mein’s temple of justice.
Lord Canterbury, sometime private secre-
tary to his father, the late Governor of Victoria,
•has, it is cabled, “consented” to lay aside the
■ munificent sum of £2OO a year for the benefit of
<his creditors.
The first inflow of legal talent to N.S.W.
was due to an advertisement from a litigant who
could not get a barrister to defend his case. Now
every other man you meet in Sydney is either a
or a briefless barrister.
Mr. Joseph Liddle, solicitor, formerly of
the eminent firm of Klingender, Charlsley and
Liddle, of Melbourne (Vic.), died recently in
Townsville (Q.), in very reduced circumstances.
- Mr. Liddle was at one time a leader of fashion in
Melbourne,
The cast of the head of the late Emperor
William of Germany, taken after death, was (so the
( Graphic tells us) intended for the Empress
Augusta alone, and the mould has been broken by
• command of the family, in order that only one
• example shall exist.
Oscar Wilde once said of Whistler, the
; {esthetic eccentric and artistic nocturnist, “Mr.
Whistler has been offered every insult except
! popularity.” Whistler could have retorted, an’
•he would, “There is nothing I dread more than
i popularity ! Oscar Wilde is popular.”
James Smith, of Melbourne Argus, cele-
-1 brated his 67th birthday on 28th April, when Mr.
Willoughby congratulated him on behalf of the
■ staff. J. S. married a daughter of the late W. L.
Kelly, who was proprietor of Melbourne Punch
30 years ago, when it was a comic paper.
Marion Crawford, the English novelist of
’ the day, is described as being “over six feet in
1 height, with a manly face, straight nose, bright
• blue eyes, and a mouth of remarkably delicate
> shape, fringed, not hidden, by a brown moustache,
skilled in all athletic sports, and famous at thirty-
• four.”
■ Lucy Escott, the charming operatic artiste,
f and Henry Squires, her husband, who carried the
Australian public by storm a quarter of a century
ago, are now enjoying their well-earned fortune
on the shores of Lake Como. None of your Mel-
nottish cribs, but a real chateau, and the love all
there, too.
Woolcock, the wonderful Griffith’s pri-
vate secretary, retires from politics to pursue
his career at the Bar. The Ut i campaign has told
upon him severely, an 6 Lis voice no more re-
sembles the rippling brook, but his waistcoats and
ties are still like those lilies that made Solomon
take a back seat.
For years past an open carriage and pair
has carried in the Eight Hours’ procession in Mel-
bourne the pioneers of the system in Victoria.
As years roll on the number of Venerable occu-
pants of the vehicle has been decreasing, and at
the last demonstration the banner borne in the
chariot had a knot of crape attached.
A Mr. MTherson, who recently died in
England, has bequeathed £lOOO to the Australian
(Rev. C. Strong’s) Church in Victoria. His estate
was worth £105,000. Mr. MTherson left £lO,OOO
to his mother, £20,000 to his brother Dngald,
£15,000 to his brother Peter, £9OOO to each of his
nephews, and £lOOO each to two cousins.
The new Duke of Rutland is the Lord
John Manners who wrote
“ Let wealth and commerce, laws and learning die,
But leave us still our old nobility.”
Now he says ;
“ Oh ! take from England science, art, and books,
And bust up everyone, except the dooks.”
Since the Melbourne judges have got their
swell new courts, they all call one another, “My
brother Holroyd,” “My learned brother Wil-
liams,” and so forth. In the old days, when
Stawell, Barry, and Williams (senr.) sat up in the
poor little brick crib in Latrobe-streat, it used to
be “Mr. Justice Barry,” “the learned Chief
fe
PREPARING FOR THE WORST.
HUSBAND (about to leave home for his business place in the city) : “GOOD BYE, MY DEAR,
YOU WILL FIND MY LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT, AND AN INSUR-
ANCE POLICY FOR £200 IN THE TOP DRAWER.”
WIFE (startled): “WHY, BLESS ME, JOHN; SURELY YOU ARE NOT GOING TO
KILL YOURSELF?”
HUSBAND: “OH. NO; BUT, YOU SEE, THEY HAVE JUST FITTED UP A ‘LIFT’
AT THE STORE, AND IT’S BEST TO BE PREPARED FOR THE WORST.”
Justice,” or “My colleague, Mr. Justice WiP
Jiams.”
Says an English paper : —-“As a matter of
fact, outside acting, Sarah Bernhardt is a very
ordinary creature indeed. It is well known that
she has never painted one pf the pictures, modelled
one of the statues, written one of the books, or
composed one of the verses which bear her name.
They have one and all been executed by Ghosts
who have for the moment been particular friends
of hers.”
Mr. G. Clarke, the “ Christian athlete, ” is
the latest pet of Melbourne’s pious fancy. Mr.
C. is every bit as versatile as Professor Miller.
He wrestles with temptation in catch-as-catch-can
style, knocks out Satan in four rounds, fences
difficult Bible problems, and lifts heavy weights
of sorrow from many a sinful breast. Further-
more, he can be backed to row Kemp down the
River of Life.
Professor Blackie has been giving his
opinion of teetotallers and teetotalism. He has
the highest respect for temperance and for total
abstinence; hut if he went to the house of a gentle-
man who was a teetotaller, and got only water, he
(Professor Blackie) would think him neither a gen-
tleman nor a Christian. The host was bound to
respect his guest’s capacity, as he respected his
guest’s weakness.
We read that Berry, the British hangman,
i is to be denied the privilege of earning a few honest
shillings as an amateur vocalist. At least the
Home Secretary is going to try and put a stop to
the travelling executioner performing twice in the
same town on two consecutive days, in consequence
of Mr. Berry singing at an entertainment at Here-
ford the night before an execution. It is related
that only very recently, on Berry returning to his
home, after one of his vocal feats, his wife anxiously
exclaimed, “Why, Jim, what a cold you have
got!” To which Berry made answer, “Not me,
I’m only a bit ropey.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
Is Uncle Abigail auntie-Chinese ?
The Sydney dailies are now all “ turnifig
dog ” on Parlies in real earnest.
The Parkes Government is concluding the
particulars of the tramway-grab.
Premier Parkes says he “ has much to be
thankful for.” That is so. He has an enviable
cheek.
Heine once wrote : “It is the mission of
Germany in the modern world to be the stud-farm
of Monarchy.”
“In the multitude of counsellors there is
whisky.”— Revised maxim for the use of the
N.S. W. Assembly.
The descendants of the notorious courtesan
Nell Gwynne have been drawing for over two
hundred years from the British Treasury an animal
pension of £lOOO.
The self-made man turned up as a Parlia-
mentary candidate at Toowong (Q.) the other day,
and calmly explained that he was once a working
man, but had “ riz up.” Fact.
Mr. Walker, Victorian Commissioner of
Customs, says that a duty on perambulators had
been overlooked by the Government. And yet
we always understood that Duncan Gillies was a
bachelor.
A London Press Club, which refused to
admit Mr. William O’Brien, the distinguished
editor of the United Ireland, entertained two
professional pugilists, J. L. Sullivan and Mitchell,
'a few weeks ago.
Although N.S.W. gaols held 112 prisoners
less in 1887 than they did in 1886, the value of
goods manufactured in the said gaols was £llBl
more last year than it was the year before. Ad-
vance Australia !
Intercolonial Freetrade already exists in
one commodity. All that a shady vagrant has to
do when brought.beforc some Sydney stipendiaries
is to promise to clear out to Melbourne or Bris-
bane —and then they let him go clear.
There are two Smiths, one Smyth, four
Joneses, two Browns, a Black, and a White
among the Queensland Parliamentary candidates.
The fact that there is no Carington among so
many Smiths augurs well for the Democracy.
While' referring to the number of hogs in
the N.S.W. Assembly, the other night, Premier
Parkes quite forgot—we speak Pickwickianlv and
Jawboneneildically—to include himself. This is
about the only instance on record in which he re-
frained from egotism.
The five protected cruisers to be built for
the Australian squadron will each be of about 2500
tons displacement and have a maximum speed of
19 knots. Their armament will include eight
36 pounder quick firers, eight 3-pounder quick-
firers and four torpedo-tubes.
The other day Sir Henry Porkes ob-
served : “If I were in charge of a great news-
paper . . . the thing I should try above all
things to avoid would be to give publicity to some
statement which would turn out to be untrue.”
Then how would he be able to report his own
speeches ?
There are now two empresses belonging to
the house of Guelph.
Will Ireland get Home-rule ? Of cours'd
she will. Where she once had ten, she has now a
thousand sympathisers; and if she stuck to her
cause when she was so weakly supported, she will
be certain to continue the fight now that she
of joys such a comparative advantage.
Griffith has admitted to some of his fol ■
lowers that his personal influrnce in his late Go-
vernment was very slight. He says that Dickson
and Bulcock ruled, though vigorously Combatted
by Dutton, who was ahgered at the wholesale ex-
ploitation of the workmen by the land-sharks.
The Age remarks, in reference to the Naval
Forced Bill:
We scarcely see why the colonists should place them-
selves under the dictatorship flf British officials because
England had at one time admirals who swept the Spaniard
from the sea, and generals who prev( nted the spread of
French dominion.
Mr. George Ranken states that for nine
years he lived in a North (Sydney) Shore town-
ship, and during three years of service in the
borough council he was constantly engaged in de-
fending the little water-frontage left to the people
of North Shore against parliamentary land agents,
Ministers for Lands, and ex-Ministers.
Now that he has got such a drubbing, it is
extremely unlikely that Griffith will persist in his
quarrel with Dickson and Bulcock and the Bris-
bane land-sharks, Negotiations have once more
been opened between the parties, and Griffith will
throw over the Extreme Liberals, and try to
unite the party again. How like Sam !
The Australian Christian Messenger
considers that Christians should not be usurers ;
“The Christian trader, like Cscsar’s wife, should he
above suspicion. Preaching and Sunday-school teaching
on Sunday and 00 per cent, interest on Monday is very
much like trying to serve God and Mammon. This, we
know from the Master’s words, is an impossibility, and
the very attempt to do it must result in failure and con-
tusion.”
Mr. Kelly’s contention that no duly-ap
pointed member of the (N.S.W.) Hansard staff
of reporters should in future be regarded as
a “stranger” by the Speaker is quite right. He
should extend his motion, however. No duly
qualified pressman, who practically assists in the
government of the country, should be regarded as
a “stranger.”
The Tory Government has determined to
grant £lO,OOO to assist the Highland crofters to
emigrate to Canada !!! Every man who leaves
the United Kingdom assists in bringing down the
value of land; every man who emigrates to
Canada assists in raising the value of Canadian
land. “A bold peasantry—its country’s pride,
when once destroyed can never be supplied.”
The proprietor of a N.Q. journal having put
up for Parliament his local rival mentions the fact.
In the process of mentioning it it courteously
alludes to the candidate’s paper as the Champion
Turncoat, the Judas Oracle, the Great Mormon
Liar, the Sodom and Gomorrah Evangelist,
and the Brigham Young Advocate, and adds
that it doesn’t want to create ill-feeling. What it
does want to create is not mentioned.
Interesting extract —illustrating how Tory
England coerces Ireland—taken from the report
of Mr. Wilfrid Blnnt’s recent action against Mr.
Byrne ;
“At this stage the Mac Dermot asked that the Court
should adjourn. Mr. Blunt had, he said, had no food but
a small piece of dry bread since the morning, ‘ Nothing
since yesterday,’ added Mr. Blunt.”
Some papers, indeed, make Mr. Blunt’s remark
read, “Nothing since the day before yesterday.”
How much better are men than their
creeds! Here is the Pope writing to the new
German Emperor as follows :
“ May the health of your Majesty be restored, and may
your Majesty enjoy a long life for the welfare of your
subjects. We pray that God may grant this ; and we
hope that, in His goodness, He may join us and your
Majesty in indissoluble bonds of love.”
Yet the Pope is officially bound to believe that
as soon as this short life is over the gidf between
him and the Emperor Frederick will be as wide as
the gulf between Dives and Lazarus.
The Chief Justice of the United States,
who presides over what is perhaps the first court
in the world, and who wields a power in some
respects far above the President’s, gets but £2lOO
annually; his eight associates each draw £2OOO
annually. In N.S.W. and in Victoria the Chief
Justice’s salary is £3500. In England the Lord
Chancellor receives £lO,OOO per annum; the Lord
Chief Justice, £8000 ; four Judges of Appeal,
£6OOO each ; and about thirty puisne justices at
£5OOO each; besides a vast number of minor judges
and high court officials who draw enormous
salaries.
In the recent Pastoral letter issued by
Cardinal Moran it is commanded that no Catholic
clergyman shall attempt to perform service over
the grave of anyone who, after the date of this
edict, becomes a member of either the Oddfellows’,
Druids’, Foresters’, Rechabites’, Good Templars’,
or such like societies. The alleged reason for this
is that these societies have now a distinct burial
service of their own, which jars with some of the
doctrines of the R.C. Church. The real reason
probably is that many of these societies are simply
run for political purposes, and are, therefore, apt
to interfere with the solid Catholic vote.
When M ‘II wraith came out in front of the
polling booth during the afternoon of the North
Brisbane election, his reception was simply frantic.
The people went racing beside him, trying to
touch him or shake his hand. One great Scotch
workman, with the tears streaming down his face,
kept patting him on the shoulders and cheeks, ex-
claiming, “Ah, Tammie, mon ; Tammie, mon !”
A tall, beautiful girl, waving her lace parasol and
cheering, right in the middle of the crowd, sud-
denly attracted MTlwraith’s attention. He made
his way to her, taking off his hat, shaking her
hand, and thanking her. After that, everyone
seemed to go mad, and accounts differ.
The Age reflects severely on Sir Henry
Parkes for not co-operating with the Victorian
Government in the establishment of an ammuni-
tion factory, and considers that it is about time
the Victorian Premier abandoned his futile efforts
to obtain the assistance of N.S.W. in matters
of common importance to Australia. The Age
further remarks that when in Melbourne Pai’kes
thought it would be an excellent idea to obtain an
English general to supervise colonial troops, but
when he returned to Sydney he would have nothing
to do with the project. The Age, however, does
not complain of his action in this connection since
the proposal of Mr. Gillies is disapproved of by
public opinion in Victoria as well as in New South
Wales. Had it been otherwise, Sir Henry Parlies
would have refused to co-operate just the same.


- •
I d . id
( \To 11 i
L° 4^
v.. „:...»• - 1


* ' -
dfg
A New Tune.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: DON’T YOU THINK YOU HAD BETTER STOP THAT TUNE? HERE’S SOMETHING THAT WILL SUIT YOUR VOICES EVER SO MUCH BETTER.’


The burning 1 question in the co’onies just now is the
Chinese one, and the impression is widespread tnat Johnny
must go. They may go, but the china-men (Bray Bros.)
mean to stop here and supply the wants of small and
great, rich and poor, with the best styles of glass and
china at prices that will suit everybody. Location, 402
tud 404 George-street. 1
CATARRH
is an inflammation of the mucous
membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless cured will destroy every faculty and function
of its victim. Catarrh base is an infallible cure! Sold
by Washington Soul ana all chemists. Full particulars
from F. M. Clements Newtown, N.S.W.
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that ?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on the flowers.*
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED*
Established 1853.
Ar& as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru l
menta: —
UEBEL aid LECHLEITES PIANOS,
the Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTEP S Co. AMERICAN OECANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtaine Elsewhere.
Hustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING ft CO-, Ud,
366 GKOHGK STTtKI'KT*. thrw Doorg from GLP.O*
Society
Since the silver boom set in there have
been good times for the mineral assayers, and the
men of deep intellect who contemplate the busted
boulder and then state briefly and affably how
much gold and silver and precious stones are
inside it have been making a fortune. One of the
leading men in this profession—a Sydneyite—was
so rushed with paving-stones, bricks, road-metal,
“gibbers,” and old hoop-iron for assay that he
gave up assaying anything at all, and merely
gazed at each parcel for a moment and then
guessed the results and drew his fee. This
system ultimately led him to destruction, for on a
certain evil day laden with woe he signed a cer-
tificate that a specimen of ordinary paving
material showed a result of 16 ounces gold and 87
ounces silver to the ton, and now he would give a
lot to get that certificate back, but the owner
hangs on to it, and shows it with a fiendish cackle
to his friends and acquaintances.
* •
The Shah of Persia—who is a pretty de-
cent sort of King, as Kings go—is about to pay
another visit to Europe, and will, doubtless, be
well received by “sassiety.” The only drawbacks
about him are a depressing habit he has of ham-
mering his imperial signature of “ Nasr-ed-din ”
into the heads of his subjects with nails, and a
way he has got into of enclosing them in plaster-
of-Paris with only their heads sticking out, and
then waiting to see how long it will take them to
die. He seldom washes himself, and when he
stops in a hotel his room has to be scraped- down
and the bedding burnt before anyone else can in-
habit it. Also when he dines at the tables of the
rich and the great he takes a huge plateful of
everything that comes within reach, and if he
finds it unsuited to his taste he promptly shies it
under the table, generally hitting the lady oppo-
site with the whole mess. He drinks a little also,
and is more ignorant than a cow, and he proposes
marriage to every pretty daughter of the aristo-
cracy who comes in his way, and can’t understand
why the laws of Europe won’t allow him to kick
her when she refuses to accept his greasy hand ;
also he is somewhat bloodthirsty and his language
is unclean to the last degree; but he is a decent
sort of King all the same, as Kings go in the nine-
teenth century. On this occasion, as on his pre-
vious visit, he will be trotted out by the upper-
classes, and deputationised by Ihe clergy, and will
have bibles, which he can’t read, given to him by
obsequious bishops, and the church will preach and
pray about him as it did the last time he brought
his offensive presence along, and he will have a
high old time generally. A dirty monarch is
better than a clean K.C.M.G. any day, and when
a clean King can’t be got a dirty one will do.
* * *
The spirit of Shakespeare appears to be
let out by the hour or job, by a medium named
John Gray Evans. Quite recently, the medium
held a slate and pencil underneath a table, and
desired divine William to make a statement, and
a sketch of himself as he was before he became a
sperrit. Shakespeare produced an outline, and
wrote, “At the request of Mr John Gray, I am
permitted to give my portrait, a faithful repre-
sentation of myself at the time when I lived on
earth. I beg to mention the fact that Bacon
fully owns one-half of the works put down to my
credit account. ” That message shows a consider-
able falling-off in the bard’s literary style. It is
so distinctly mercantile in character that we fear
they have made his ghost into corresponding
clerk at a cheesemonger’s, where bacon has become
embedded in his harassed intellect.
• • •
A Melbourne modeller was recently fined
£4 4s. for spitting in his daughter’s face. He
might have spat in his wife’s face for nothing.
♦ * ♦
Pious Londoners are crowding to view an
elaborately tatooed man and wife on exhibition
there. The man has a representation of the
Crucifixion between his shoulder-blades, while his
wife’s body is ornamented with the Last Supper.
There are many ways of spreading the Gospel.
♦
How to save your butter-bills. Spread
your bread with butter, then scrape it off as closely
as you can, and hold the buttered side down when
you eat it. Your tongue strikes the butter at
once, and you get just as much flavor as if you
had three times as much butter and ate it the
other way. P.S. —This was sent us by a corres-
pondent named Donald M‘Cal him.
A Victorian, whose wife was injured through
falling in a hole on the road, was awarded £2l
“for the loss of his wife’s society,” the other day.
We hope he will be sufficiently public-spirited to
put that wife of his in the Museum if she happens
to survive him. A wife whose society is worth
that much should be on exhibition,
George Augustus Sala described the Aus-
tralian larrikin as “a strictly sober young black-
guard,” and possibly the larrikin holds G.A.S. in
contempt as a boozy old journalist. That rubi-
cund gentleman, mixing only with men who
liquored up freely, thought that sobriety was
rather peculiar to the Australian hoodlum, and
would be surprised to learn that when a Local
Option poll was taken at Port Melbourne, nearly
all the young men electors supported the reduc-
tion of pubs. The rising generation of this
country thinks that the old ’uns take too much to
drink, and, perhaps, the r.g. has grasped a solid
fact.
• • *
Hatching-machines for rearing prema-
turely-born infants are, we read, now a recognised
feature in the lying-in hospitals of Paris. The
apparatus is in the form of a large wooden box
divided into two compartments ; one is filled with
warm water, and the other contains a basket lined
with wadding, into which the infant is deposited.
The lid is supplied with a glass pane to enable
the movements of the little inmate to be watched.
New-bom babes weighing from 21b. to 2Ub. in-
stead of 4ilb., the average weight of a fully -
developed youngster, have been placed in these
machines, and in a short time have been turned
out strong and healthy. When the process fails,
all that is wanted is a very small coffin and a little
tombstone and a short inscription to the effect
that the underneath, “Died in an rgg-bbx”;
when it succeeds, one more ci iz n giOw-°up in a
hard, unfeeling world to bjn a pawmh p Lke
a certain N.S.W. politican, or to curse the men
who reared him as if he had been a hen with a
hot-water bottle at his feet, and then turned him
loose upon the earth.
• •
From a Melbourne paper :
“A GOOD HOME—Small remuneration, offered to a
“ L musical, business-like young lady.”
If we were not afraid of offending her, we would
draw the attention of the young lady living next
door to us to this advertisement. We never in
our lives before saw anyone who combined music
and labour in such a fascinating fashion. When
she is making breakfast she puts the eggs on the
fire and the toast in front of it, and then skips
lightly into the front parlour and tries a fall with
the accordeon When she returns to the kitchen
the toast is a cinder and the eggs cricket-balls.
But the spirit has been soothed, and she doesn’t
complain. The other members of the family
relieve her of that much trouble. The same per-
formance occurs at every mealtime, and when she
is ironing the family linen and has got the irons
nice and hot, she takes one and moves it up and
down over the front of a new white shirt once or
twice, then drops it suddenly and scurries off to
tackle the accordeon once more. When she
comes back there is a hole burnt in the front of
the shirt large enough for a dog to jump through, i
This is evidently the kind of young lady the
people who put in that advertisement are yearning
for. We believe, too, that her family would part
hh
AT A TEA.
MR. TYNCHASER (who has been obnoxiously persistent in his attentions) : “I HAVE NOT
HAD THE PLEASURE OF FINDING YOU AT HOME FOR A LONG TIME.
MRS. BOND.”
OPULENT WIDOW: “NO. THERE SEEMS TO BE AN OBSTACLE.”
MR. T. : “CAN’T I REMOVE IT?”
O. W. : “POSSIBLY.”
MR. T. (tenderly): “AT LEAST, LET ME KNOW WHAT IT IS.”
O. W. (coldly): “THE FRONT DOOR.”
with her without exhibiting much unseemly
emotion.
* * *
Speaking of the soiled doves of Sydney an
evening paper playfully observes : “ The foetid
waters of hell may have engulfed them, and trans-
mogrified their nature from that of a presentable
specimen of humanity to that of a demoniacal
sensualist of the most repulsive character.” What
a rare old thumbing the office “ Walker’s Una-
bridged ” must have received before the facile
scribe evolved that sentence from the tissues of his
seething brain !
“ Mamma, dear,” said little Alice,
“ Charlie and I have been playing husband and
wife.” “How did you go about it, dear?”
“ Well, first I laid the table, and then we sat
down. Charley tasted a dish, and threw his nap-
kin down, saying, ‘ This dinner is only fit for a
dog to eat.’ Then I told him-he was a fool, and
then he said damn, and then I got up and called
him a brute, and he swore again, and I left the
room. ”
* « *
When David James Brennan was found
guilty and sent up for four years for “ concealment
of birth ” at North Shore, Sydney, the judge
remarked that this was rather “an unusual con-
viction for a young man.”
* * •
A pastoral letter from Cardinal Moran was
read the other Sunday in all the Sydney metro-
politan Catholic churches, and part of this letter
expressly forbade the solemnisation of marriage at
night-time, “except in cases of extreme urgency.”
Catholics are now commanded to be married
during the Mass celebration; a fact which will
tend to considerably increase the church congre-
gations, and augment the gate-money, so to speak,
which is collected at the offertory. “An old dog
for a hard road.”
•
From Advocate (Melbourne), May 5, 1888:
TDESPECTABLE GIRL or Sober Woman, WANTED,
_ to milk one or two cows, and assist housework,
with the view to, and option of, joining a religious
community after a time. No pay but a home. Apply
—Mrs. O'Kavanagh, Zion Erin Cottage, lit, id el berg,
near Melbourne.
“ To milk cows with the view to joining a religious
community ” is excellent.
* • •
The “ Crazy Social ” is the latest American
innovation in fashionable life, and, as it is re-
ported to be spreading to Europe and even more
distant parts, it may ultimately reach Potts
Point and other centres of Australian intellect,
and jostle the blue-moulded and idiotic surprise
party out of existence. The crazy social is a
simple device, and is based upon a universal effort
to run everything on upside-down principles.
Among other things, the supper is laid on mantel-
pieces and sofas; the meat is served on salvers,
pickles in fire-shovels, mustard in cream pitchers,
and cheese in dust-pans. The cream is in the
cruet-stand, and, after much skirmishing, the
crazy socialist finds the sugar in the fireplace, and
stirs his tea with the poker. Wherever possible
the bread is kept in a bottle and the soup in a
basket, and one man gets his coffee in a silver
teapot, while the next is served in a feeding-
bottle. The company endeavour to match the en-
tertainment by wearing their hats on their feet
and their boots on their heads, or by appearing
in dress coats and kilts, and wearing spectacles on
their ears and drinkingwine through ear-trumpGs
and fog-horns, and, whenever possible, they talk
backwards. Some have their coats hauled up to the
tops of their heads, and others fasten the sleeves
round their waists and trail the tails behind them,
and the majority have straws in their hair and
their collars fastened at the sides, while their
neckties trickle down their backs. Chairs are
mostly turned upside down at the crazy social,
and consequently sweet maidens in Wellington
boots have to roost among the tipper branches of
these inverted articles of furniture, and flowers
are scattered round in ink-bottles, cracked cups,
and wash-tubs, while the vases are filled with
carrots and potato-tops. The crazy social is
bounded only by the limits of possibility; if
human teeth were equal to the effort the guests
would eat chairs and sit down on tarts, and would
wear the fire-irons while they stirred the fire with
their coats. In spite of this difficulty, however,
there is abundant scope for the exercise of the
faculty of physical stupidity, and this bump being
well-developed in the human race, the upside-
down species of entertainment should prove a
gigantic success.
# * #
Since the anti-heathen agitation has be-
come so warm, the Mongolians of Melbourne have
religiously excluded all Europeans from their high
cathedral. They are afraid the Fanqui Devil will
prove too many for Joss.
The other day, an old lady of 60 odd,
living in Melbourne, filed an action for divorce
from her wild young rake of a hubby, who is about
70 next birthday. It seems the latter had been
caught in the act of kissing a gay young slavey,
and taking her long walks, and forgetting to re-
turn to the wife of his bosoin, to whom he -has
been married 40 years, for a month or so. The
case has been withdrawn, but there’s every proba-
bility of it going to a higher Court ’ere long.
* .
The story of a person named Gomez, a cop.
per-colqured foreigner from India’s coral strand,
as told in a Melbourne court last week, is pathetic
enough to touch the heart of a seedy turnip and
move a bailiff to tears. Gustave was a cer-
tified French chef, and he slung hash for a Mel-
bourne magnate till he was fired forth for frying
sausages in kerosene and polishing the dishes on
his trousers. Then he yanked his boss before the
Bench, claiming a stack of damages for being
illegitimately thrown out, and this is the evidence
they rang in against him
“ The plaintiff was a good cook for ,‘d years, but just
about that time a letter arrived from India, stating that
his wife was dead. After this he allowed his kitchen to
get very dirty, and would lie against the wall and howl
all day. The next mail brought information to the effect
that his wife was all right, but it was his buffalo which
was dead. He carried on even worse after that and was
allowed to go at his own request.”
The man who would take advantage of a terrible
grief like that of this nigger is not a good citizen,
and the sooner he knows it the better.
* * •
Judge Warren, of the Irish Probate
Court, ha,s, we read, decided that the son of a
widow’s first husband’s sister may not marry the
aforesaid widow even if he wants to, which, as a
rule, he doesn’t.
* * •
Incidental to the Wesleyan Conference
held in Melbourne last week, a local paper says :
“ The two conspicuous things in the church were
the number of be-spectacled ministers, and the
elaborateness of the ladies’hats.” We expect the
parsons strained their eyes trying to “see the
money ” in their wives’ tiles.
♦ * *
Doctors are proverbially callous. We now
read of a celebrated surgeon who calmly dissected
the love of his youth, the girl he had danced with,
had gone boating with, had taken long country
rides with, had kissed and caressed and had
hoped to wed—the prospective domestic angel
of his home, the wife of his bosom, the mother of
his children, the sharer of his joys and sorrows ;
and he calmly dissected her. She was a splendid
woman, and the flint-hearted medico selected and
preserved sections of her heart, her lungs, her
liver—Ugh ! He had these specimens mounted
on glass slides, and can now contemplate under
the microscope little bits of “Mary in Heaven.”
And this reminds us of a little anecdote of
Harriet Marti neau given by James Payn in
his “ Literary Recollections.” He was on a visit
to Harriet, at Ambleside, in the Lake country.
The narrator of “Tales of Political Economy”
was as deaf as a post, and all conversation was
carried on per medium of an ear-trumpet. Payn,
Harriet, and Harriet’s physician passed many
and many an evening playing dummy-whist, and
although in this game, silence is golden, the
two men talked freely before their host without
her hearing a word of what was said. One night
the doctor informed Payn that Miss Martineau
was such an enthusiast in the cause of science
that she had bequeathed her head after her death
to a phrenological society. Payn expressed in-
credulity, but the physician informed him that it
was quite true ; he had special means of knowing;
he was one of the executors of her will, and to him
had been entrusted the work of removing the
lady’s gifted cranium. Payn was horrified that
the man could sit evening after evening playing
whist with the woman whose head he looked for-
ward to severing from her body, and refused to
make a third at any future game, but the unsenti-
mental surgeon played on just as usual.
* * *
*’ A fight at a wedding ” is the heading of
an article in a recent Age. An early start, bv
thunder!
* * *
A Melbourne paper speaks of a tardy
bridegroom as “not being up to time.” “Up to
the scratch ” would have been much neater.
* * *
One of the few romances Melbourne
boasts is that of a maiden lady wdio resides in one
of the suburbs. Years ago she was privately the
affianced of a well-to-do Civil servant, who had an
unpleasant relative keeping house for him. So
unpleasant was this woman that the bride-to-be
made her lover take an oath never to ask her to
marry him until his delightful relative “ cut her


Among- the many improvements we have noticed in the
citv is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hv'de Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets, -
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor Mr M
Sh alvky, has s] arid no cnj < i»s o lonn.ko Ins holt 1 the fust
In Sydney *
J. B. Pace’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
the most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by
all connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flavour. Pre-
pared so that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to th e
last pirticle with pure white asti. Try it.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whitb Patrnt Roi.i.kr Flour is tbf
best in th» marbet
Sir Charles Warren, the Chief of the
London Police, has been howled down on account
of his conduct in connection with the late Trafal-
gar-square business.
Premier Gillies, inspired by Premier
Parkes, says that rich Victorians, who made their
money in the colony, ought to give more towards
the endowment of “charitable institutions. ’ This
reproof comes with double force from Duncan, be-
cause he is a philanthropic old hairpin who
practises as he preaches. There are no more de-
serving institutions than hotel-waiters, and it isn’t
so long since the Premier endowed one of them
with a penny. This charitable bequest has since
been mounted and framed.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented nwhiimry.
The ipialitj is eviepUomill) good, ..ml th* prim- > erj low.*
sticks.” As the objectionable young woman was
engaged to a miserable object with a short coUgh,
the Civil Service Romeo immediately gave his
lady the required oath, thinking their marriage
would not be long delayed, as the vinegary rela-
tive’s nuptials were close at hand. But, lo 1 the
attenuated intended developed symptoms of con-
sumption and died in a week, and then nothing
short of a crowbar could remove the disappointed
bride from the home of her relative, and at this
Very moment she is energetically ‘ 1 doing ’ for him
as heretofore —he is a dejected bachelor and his
lady love a no less dejected spinster, all on account
bf an idle oath taken over fifteen years ago. They
may marry yet, of course, but the odds are against
it, don’t you think ?
The bleeding heart of Antonie Domingo
Gromez has been laid bare in Melbourne County
Court. It seems that Antonio is a Hindoo cook,
imported from India on the four years’ hire system.
IT or three years he served his master faithfully,
but then he received a letter telling him that his
wife was dead. Under the stress of this great
grief Antonio “carried on something dreadful. It
wore off, however, and household arrangements
were progressing favourably when another letter
brought sad tidings to Antonio. It was h'S
buffalo, and not his wife, who had passed away.
From that time forth the wild Hindoo “ behaved
much worse than before,” and the court gave a
Christian decision in favour of the other fellow.
Pass the music :
The Presbyterian congregation South of
Melbourne Church are prodding one another in
the waistcoat with the thin ends of their um-
brellas, all because the gentle shepherd has taken
a medical degree. Some consider that the boss is
neglecting their immortal souls in favour cf their
enlarged livers, but others maintain that the man
who prepares them for glory ought to have the
sending of them off. After much earnest con-
sideration of this question we rise to move that
the medical parson is a long-felt want. Brief life
is here our portion, but while that portion holds
out there is no separating body from soul. There-
fore, practical religion demands that the reverend
supplier of the bread of life shall pop a patent
pill inside when necessary. The combination
parson could put a fellow right through—from
the cradle to the grave. After a christening he d
see whether baby’s teeth were coming on nicely,
and hand mamma his instructive little work, en-
titled “ The Philosophy of Weaning,” fourteenth
edition, price half-a-crown, sold by all booksellers.
Called in to prescribe for the growing lad, he
could examine him on Jcnah and the whale
Anon he’d make the marriage ceremony a pro-
logue to medical engagements of an interesting
domestic character. A little while later, and the
baby who had blossomed into a father finder the
combination-parson’s personal supervision, might
call him in for the grand closing scene. Conceive
the soul-and-body-specialist, at that supreme
moment, pouring out a draught, and saying, If
this doesn’t work a change for the better before
midnight, I will join with my patient in prayer,
and administer the last ghostly consolations.” And
at the graveside, in addition to the usual stereo-
typed remarks about his dear departed brother,
the parson would improve the melancholy occasion
with a few suggestions for guarding against bron-
chitis, also hinting that his dear brother would not
have departed if he (the parson) had been sent for
a little sooner. In drawing up this hasty sketch
we forgot to touch upon many other reasons for
supporting the new professional departure. For
instance, nobody can heartily pray for a member
of the congregation who is seriously iU, without
knowing something about the member's complaint,
but with the symptoms and tieatment fully ex-
plained prayer would go straight to the point.
Lastly, think how the Rev. Shepherd, M.D., must
silence the tongue of slander ! His private audi-
ences to damsels in the vestry will simply mean
feeling their pulses and looking at their little
tongues. # ,
Melbourne Herald artlessly remarks that
Presbyterian and Wesleyan ministers mostly
have well-rounded features. Cood food and
plenty of it. The Herald seems to infer that
religion rounds a parson’s features, instead of dis-
criminating between inward spiritual grace and
outward visible steak.
* * *
Melbourne Exhibition Commissioners ad-
vertised for five clerks at 50s. per week each. There
Were 750 applications.
low warble we a ballad —just a little song of woe,
,elating to the troubles of the dark Antonio,
/ho left his native India the happiest of men
'o come and cook the dinners of a Melbourne
citizen.
or three long years this Hindoo was as gentle as
a lamb;
le never blurred his record with one solitary
d n,
’ill there came a foreign letter for Antonio the
Cook, . , , ,
Explaining how the missus of his bosom had been
“ took.'’
)h ! then the. blighted heathen led a desolated
life— ,
de chased his fellow servants round the kitchen
with a knife;
Vhen he wasn’t talking wicked he was standing
on Ids head,
Vnd all because his darling (out in India) was dead.
In a week or two, at latest, poor Antonio grew
calm
For Time, the gentle healer, brings a wounded
spirit balm).
He would greet the pretty housemaid with a
courteous salaam,
And, generally speaking, was as gentle as a lamb.
But there came a seemd letter saying missus
wasn’t dead —
The party who'd defuuct°d was a buffalo instead,
And a hallelujah meeting, when its heart is very
full,
Never sounded like the cookie as he bellowed for
his bull.
He slung about the gra\y and he jumped upon
the joint
(A Hindoo’s truly awful when his hopes you dis-
appoint) ; ....
He plunged the placid kitchen into misery and
strife,
And all because of losing something better than
his wife.
Now warble we a ballad, just a litTe song of woe,
About the consequences of that precious buffalo ;
The lady is remaining, but the animal was took,
And who shall tell the sorrow of Antonio the
Cook ?
[?]
846 Macquarie street North, Sydney, May 16, 1883.
My Dear Mooiiabinoa,— The hunting season was opened
last Saturday by the members of the Sydney Hunt Club,
the run commencing at Ermington and finishing at Ryde.
One equestrienne and nine equeslrians showed up, and
only one accident occurred, and it didn’t happen to the
lidy (Miss Smith) but to Mr. Simpson, a visitor, who was
in such a hurry to negotiate a rather stiff fence that he
went over ahead of his horse and left that animal with a
pained expression on its face on the wrong side. The
Club intend proceeding to Bathurst at an early date to
hunt a real live stag which they are carefully tending up
there lo allow of its being chased as soon as possible.
The Sydney H. Club want to give the Western sportsmen
the joy of a day with the hounds as a slight return for the
quarry. Bathurst “ spores ” ought to be good riders, for
it has just struck me that if they are genuine Bathurst
burrs they should be able to stick to anything. While I
am on horsey topics, the Sjdney Driving Park Club have
now made excellent provision for ladies who wish
to view their exciting trotting matches. One well-
known club member has again been disqualified,
it being this time alleged that he entered a horse in a
“maiden” event that was a well-known performer else-
where.
Apropos of that all-absorbing topic—the late boat-race
—one Civil Service darling has cause to regret that he
ever left his high stool to go up the river on Saturday.
In the heat of the contest, when the race seemed to be in
Hanlan's favour, this impetuous youth squeaked out,
“ 100 to lon the Canadian !” Such an extravagant offer
was at once promptly taken up—in pounds—and booked
by a far-seeing “sport,” and the light of the Service
now spends his time trying to discover where he is going
to find the money to pay his debt of honour with. The
moral seems to me to be—“ If your chief visible assets are
a high collar and a check suit, don’t back anything but a
winner.”
By a recent mail-steamer departed a lucky in-
dividual, who has run through eight moderate
f jrtunes, and is now going home for the ninth, left him by
a lately-deceased uncle. This gentleman has a perfect
genius for dissipating hard cash, and is, if anything, too
lavish of his lucre. Sometimes he penetrated into the
squalid region of the Haymarket, and so much did the
apparent poverty impress him that he always changed a
pound or two into shillings to bestow upon mendicant?;
His two daughters (the elder is cet. seven) have already
been rouncLthe world twice, and on one occasion he went
from Sydney to London, and found the weather so bad
fi it he v tivn d a!’e ' the brief say <>f t r e days. To a
in,a of b's gorgeous propensities a million fortunes
would ultimately spell penury ! Speaking of money, Mr.
Burns (of Burns, Philp, and Co.) has a house building at
Parramatta which is to cost £60,000 !
A little while ago, a young lady with a considerable
sum of hard red gold in her possession, was sent alone to
Australia by a foolish and doting mother for the benefit
of her health, and to see the sights, for a period of three
months —her return ticket per P. and O. being taken. 9tie
arrived in Sydney, and subsequently boarded at a certain
seaside suburb, where she met a fascinating well-up-
holstered biped at the general table, who represented that
he was a doctor travelling for the benefit of his health,
and who straightway discovered that she was well gilt
and began to lay siege to her virgin heart. Now, this
virgin, you must understand, though intensely respectable
was a trifle imprudent, for she became “ engaged ” to the
handsome stranger and travelled over to Melbourne with
him, passing, at his instigation, as his sister. He had
now gotten hold of the greater portion of her money—
better for him to pay her hotel-bills, he said—and she
left everything to him. But when the time came to start
back to Sydney the hotel proprietor intercepted her lug-
gage and politely signified his intention of sitting on it
till the cash due for her accommodation had been counted
out! Well, she, poor thing, was as fleeced as a baa-
lamb in a shearing-shed, -and could do nothing
but leave her really valuable luggage until such
time as her soi-disant lover should explain mat-
ters. He met her at Spencer-street, and, on hearing
or pretending to hear of the hotel-keeper’s conduct, be-
came furiously indignant. Of course he had paid the
fellow, and as soon as they got to Sydney he would wire
and get her traps at once from the swindling scoundrel—
there was no time to go back now. So they started per
express, and at Junee he alighted avowedly to get her a
cup of tea. The train started again without him and he
was seen, by his victim at least, no more. Here was she —
friendless except for a letter of introduction to a well-
known Sydney shipping-agent—her money gone—her
luggage lost and the boat she was to leave by starting on
the morrow. That letter of introduction helped her out
of her difficulties. Money was lent her and her clothes
were regained, and she was packed off, a repentant and
terribly shocked young lady, to her friends in England.
The handsome “doctor” who so robbed and hopelessly
compromised this rash creature is now oscillating ’twixt
Sydney and Melbourne as h appy and as prosperous as a
C.M.G. Isn’t that a pretty little anecdote about what
may happen to a woman in Australia ?
Genial Sir Patrick Jennings has gone overland to Bris-
bane, and will be in the city of yellow-faced men
with Lord and Lady Carington, who arrived there the
other day on their return from Norfolk Island.
The ball in aid of the Sydney School of Industry even-
tuates early in June.
R. A. Skinner, who first really introduced rinking and
skating carnivals into Sydney, has opened a beautiful
rink close to the Exhibition Building, which is as well
managed as a young husband with a middle-aged wife.
I was at “ Bachelors ” on the two last nights of that
glorious comedy, and have to record crowds—of course.
The circle was the usual bare-backed show with an occa-
sional variation. A tan satin with tan velvet and ribbon-
trimmings, gloves cn suite, was d la mode, but worn
by a woman whom nature had obviously intended
for a kangaroo. A brown gauze with, by cour-
tesy, a matching “bodice ’ of satin, was, as Mrs.
Maliprop would say, “ distangay,” and would have
been in better style if Ls wearer had not been
so economical as regards the stuff in her belt—l mean
jacket. Black continues to be very much worn. ole
miniature-faced maid in black beaded lace used a white
ostrich feather fan about two feathers broad and three
feet long as if it were really what it looked like —a feather
duster. Speaking of fans, why on earth do women carry
fire-screens to the theatre in lieu of proper breeze-pro-
ducers ? The other night several “wore ” genuine gaudy
paper screens and displayed them as if they were as valu-
able as Patti’s royally-autographed air-stirrer. I low
queerly, too, some of us get ourselves up—the “ art steps
in when nature fails ” idea I mean. One fair girl in
mauve at the “Bachelors” derniere had determined to
have a wavy outline, or perish. So she wadded herself
and stuffed herself until she made a front effect that was
simply delightful I expect. But viewed from the back as
/ viewed it, her bust was an exact square —so very natural
you know ! A debateable damsel in black with light
gloves had hair of a dark brown shade, but wanted to be a
blonde—in the front at least. So she had bought her a
gingery yellowy “bang” and pinned it on regardless of
the contrast, which was shocking. And another one—
mirabile dicta ! —had only rouged one cheek !!
The Sydney High School sports on Wednesday were as
well attended as most complimentary affairs are, and I
could record one or two rather pretty toilettes, if I hadn’t
forgotten them. However, I do remember that passe-
menterie was worn in profusion, and red much in evi-
dence, and that one damsel, in peacock-blue, had essayed
to make her own garment, and had not met with that
success which the amateur dressmaker prays for. And,
alluding to needles and thread, do you know that Nellie
Stewart—the divine Nellie —does every stitch of her own
sewing ?
I was in Creelman’s the other day, when in came a
stylish-looking individual, who handed his negatives back
to the beauty in charge, and said, “ I am really- delighted
with these pictures, and I want to order a gross of them.”
“Beg pardon— how many did you say, sir?” said the
radiant girl, dubiously. “ A gross, my dear. Twelve
dozen.” Then, seeing how hesitatingly she booked the
uncommon order, he went on to explain, “ You see, I'm
on the road, and all my clients go on at me for my pic-
ture> and I can’t go up again without ’em—that's why I
want so many.” Then he left, beaming genially on every-
body, and the girl remarked, warmly, “ It’s a pity for the
trade that there aren't more like him.”
Lord and Lady Carington may return from Queensland
overland. Whilst at Norfolk the vice regal party stayed
at Bishop Selwyn's, and toured all over the island from
his house. They had a very enjoyable, trip down, and
landed on the island from the Nelson in whale-boats
through the breakers. ThisisL-.dy Carington's first ex-
perience in a whale-boat. A summer or two ago, for the
fun of the thing. 1 went all over Port Jackson in a whale-
boat, and have to record it the fastest goer of its size I
ever sailed in. It distanced everything, and though un-
pretentious, not to say homely, in style and frequently
hooted by rival crews with “ Hello ! old harpoon !” it
seldom stayed long enough in their vicinity to hear the
jibe repeated. Apropos of the vice-regal junketing, the
Government House party had no idea of a flying visit to
Brisbane until the Nelson was off Lord Howe’s Island,
when the weather being so fine and the trip so enjoyable
they resolved to add to their holiday programme and go
up to see Sir Anthony Musgrave in his Land of Separa-
tionists. Lady Carington is due in Sydney on the 19th,
when she will.open the German Fancy Fair in the Exhibition
Building. Lord and Lady Carington will both be present at
St. Vincent's Ball, which will eventuate on the 13tb of June.
And now that balls are to be once more set a-rolling, I
would warn those girls who think to captivate men by the
display of an appetite the size of a sickly butterfly’s, that
the average man doesn’t approve of a girl who takes a
spoonful of jelly and a sip of liquid and is ready to be
taken back to the ball-room again. No, they don’t. The
men want time to refresh themselves, too. They like a
girl who negotiates something tangible with a knife and
fork, and gives them time to surround a due and proper
amount of cold fowl and champagne. Speaking of ball
suppers; At a Wagga hop the other week one of the
M.C.’s attacked a calvestoot jelly with a knife and fork,
after he had copiously peppered and salted it 1 What do
you think of that, now ? That Wagga man almost out-
does the Frenchman whom 1 once saw mix rhubarb with
mashed potatoes.
Saturday morning in Sydney was a drizzly wretched
day, and but few turned out to do the block. Cecil Ward
(Joseph Surface, in the “School for Scandal”) was out
smoking a big Havana in King-street, and a yard or
two in his wake came Ada Lee with the same
hat on that she wore in the last act of “ Bachelors.’
That Saturday morning drizzle has a lot to answer for !
As a lady who is beloved by every dude that ever sucked
the knob of his cane at the corner of Hunter-street
stepped gracefully off the footpath into the mud, the
cruel mixture stuck to her No. 1 shoe, and, as she pro-
ceeded to walk, her foot came right out of the low-cut
patent leather, and—fortunately there wasn’t a . hole in
her stocking—that’s all!
Mrs. R. Thorne, of Prestonville, Potts Point, was “ at
home ” last week to a bevy of guests who had mostly that
aroma of youth about them which is so pleasing to the
passii, and which makes old maids in low-cut evening
bodices delight ;d that they came, my dear. The garden
was treacherously and unpatriotically illumined by
Chinese lanterns, and the ball-room a bower of somewhat
strong-smelling greenery. Several dainty dresses were
displayed, and Miss Eva Thorne, who made an interesiing
debutante on this occasion, was a pretty figure in striped
gauze over white satin —and recherche bouquet.—Yours
affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.
TIGHT!
dfg
She dropped a rosebud at his feet,
A dainty bud, half blown,
With creamy petals and a sweet
Flushed beauty like her own.
Her lover saw the token fall—
Knew what it might imply—
And none the less, in sight of all,
Neglected, let it lie.
She frowned, grew cold, as all could see,
Till he explained the slight;
“ I cannot pick it up,” said he,
“My trousers are too tight! ”


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmonium
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and MangL
The Beale Patent Knife-Gleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live
we will supply you with our Manufactures upor
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash,
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, anc
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds sc
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
Bth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of greal
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations oJ
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Bth, The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg
7th, They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style,
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals,
th. The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
Special Qualities and improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
■
l"* L-W
J -~ V -v-
-r
SiSl
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
S
■ ■
h
nm&ytn!
I
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed aiid scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
heir clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by- the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
(11, 484 two IS* Gvnuav rtewbt 3tdw»v
Business Announcements.
Jj'E WTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory ;
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
Large stock of pianofoiEes by tu
most Celebrated Makers.
NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7;feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Sprinq and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shElings
BEDROOM SUITES.-The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets,
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON - & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
dfg
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Yeby Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
®c
ANYAS FOLDING
\_y COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 455. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
or.
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
dfg
OANYAS0 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Seeing and O’Connell Steekts.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-Aem Lounges. ‘
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
dfg
I
C E CH E S T.S,
All Sizes,
from 275.
NEWTON & LAMB.
dfg
JJXCEL S I O K
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 455.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices.
Newton & Lamb, Importers, G’Gonnell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rate*.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
CIPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
j© make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON & LAMB
The Brickbat.
[Slung T>y Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington.]
The reports of the proceedings of the Free-
thought Association, in Melbourne, are afflicted,
as a rule, with a species of hazy inconsequence
which makes it difficult to ascertain whose big
brother was licked, but through the gloom we
faintly perceive that a row has taken place, in the
course of which somebody assumed a lofty atti-
tude, and declared that something had been per-
petrated. Mr. J. Symes’ six feet of atheism and
secular exclusiveness stood out in battle array to
combat an inward tendency to anarchy, and a
desire on the part of some backsliding members to
go back on first principles when they hadn’t any
principles to go back on, and didn’t know where
they would get to when they had gone back ; and,
in the procession of his remarks he levelled a
sweeping charge at the secretary, whom he de-
nounced as having only cold feet for the Brother-
hood, while extending all the warmth of a great and
generous soul to a low-minded opposition which
was fast tending to chaos. The secretary replied
by a lengthy statement, in the course of which he
declared that he was prepared to adhere to the
cause if it left him without boots in the cold
weather, and shortly afterwards the Association
went home to tea and prawns. As far as can be
ascertained from the audit and balance-sheet of
the meeting, Mr. Symes wishes to know if the
Association is prepared to argue with him as to
what kind of profanity is the most effective, and,
if so, is he a liar ? Also, will any religious
denomination stand out and staifip on his
corn ? Meanwhile the public view the trouble
with indifference. The general impression is that
the Freethought Association is an institution
which holds out the big right hand of friendship
to that universal enemy, the leprous heathen,
simply because he isn’t a Christian; and at the
same time gets its hair up because a few opposi-
tion unbelievers decline to chew the great prin-
ciples of liberty, equality, and fraternity, with
the same false teeth as the head of the circus, and,
therefore, the nation wipes the hand of indiffer-
ence on the coat-tail of contempt and stands by.
* * *
The religious Press of the far-off land
over which we all yearn has not even yet quite
finished drawing a pathetic moral from the famous
Exeter Theatre calamity of many months ago.
The British Flag and Christian Sentinel, in
the course of a review of what the “ hand of
God ” has been doing in the eourse of the past
year, makes a few remarks mostly in italics : .
“ God speaks by His providential dealings. . . .
Seldom has the voice of Providence been more loud and
distinct than in the recent calamity at Exeter. . . .
Panic was undoubtedly the cause of this catastrophe,
humanly speaking, for we recognise in all such events the
over-ruling hand of Providence ... a warning
against the theatre. . . . The theatre is the resort of
the vicious.”
The old man editor of the religious paper shines
out in this little paragraph. For damning his
fellow-creatures in stacks and laying on brimstone
and everlasting torment with a reckless profusion
which he would shudder at if eternal perdition
were as dear as earthly gas, no man can compare
to him. Few things rejoice his heart more than
to stand on the steps of his own particular Bethel
filled with a pleasant consciousness that his own
mean little wooden soul has been saved, and watch
a lost spirit sloping to Sheol at a canter through
the gathering dusk; and he preaches about the
circumstance next Sunday in an unctuous voice
which seems to have a large, greasy dinner sitting
on top of it, and points out that if the vital prin-
ciple which is now gnashing its teeth in outer
darkness had sat in one of his hard pews every
Sunday and listened to his maunderings about
some hunky transgressor who went astray
in Gath, and burnt incense to idols, his
fate, dear friends, would have been so
different. The average religious editor is a species
of deputy-Providence filled with ham and rich
gravy, and he distributes the bottomless pit as
freely as if it were pie. Only when some vessel
of wrath pounds his pious corn he is moved to
sudden excitement, and delivers a sermon on the
words of the great Reformer, “Judge not, that ye
be not judged,” and points out that the other
fellow is among the goats.
* » •
In Sdhth Australia a few weeks ago, a
young man named Goodfellow shot at his sweet-
heart and killed a cat. He is now doing a term of
seven years’ imprisonment, which leads to the
impression that cats is riz. The moral of this
little incident is that the next man who feels that
way should shoot at the cat and kill the girl.
Girls are plentiful enough if cats are scarce, and
we know of plenty of girls who could be better
spared than some cats we are acquainted with,
and therefore if shooting at the cat will im-
prove that unassuming animal's chance of not
being hit let her be shot at by all means.
Parenthetically we may mention here that we
have a very low opinion of a person who can’t hit
so large an object as a girl with a charge of shot
at the first try. A man of so hopelessly imbecile
a character would probably miss the side of a
mountain with a half-brick, and yet it was the
very depth and breadth and thickness of his
hideous incapacity which led to the holocaust of
one cat which didn’t dream that he was such an
ass until his rash act had hurried it into eternity.
Viewing the position, therefore, from every pos-
sible standpoint, we have very little sympathy
for Mr. Goodfellow. The feeble condition of
Australia’s military system renders it incumbent
on every citizen to be able to shoot straight and
to bring down the object he shoots at; and
the resident who aims at a girl and only
succeeds in. perpetrating a dull, sickening thud on
a cat which' wasn’t aware that he was loaded
is utterlyi beneath contempt. If Mr. Goodfellow
ever hurries to the tented field, it is to be hoped
that the exigencies of warlike strategy will con-
fine him to howling in the commissariat depart-
ment at the rear, or, if he does go to the front,
the policy of his bleeding country requires that he
shall fight only with the butt end of his imple-
ment of strife.
The eccentric artist, Whistler, makes the
paradoxical boast —“No pupil of mine, sir, has
ever sold a picture.”
Mrs. Depotts, of the Point, says that the
circus in Mr. Cameron’s illness is'over. The poor
old soul meant crisis.
In the year 2000 a.d. Teacher: “How
did the Yarra get dirty ?” “Men put the dirt in
it.” Teacher: “And how did the Yarra get
clean?” “Please, sir, it didn’t get clean- it
smells yet.”
Mr. Lachlan J. Brient, a, young Tas*
manian but an old pressman, who has gallantly
worked his way up the journalistic ladder,
and has had' no small part in establish-
ing the Sydney Daily Telegraph, left Aus-
tralia for England the other day, by the P, and O.
s.s. Britannia, He goes to London as the St.
Patrick of the Australian Press. His contract is
a massive one. He roes “ home ” to purge the
Tophet of cable sensationalism. The British Mis-
sionary Society used to send out their advance-
agents to Australia once. It’s Australia’s turn
now. The Sydney-D/iV was rudely snubbed by
Sir Henry Porkes the other day for printing
“ unreliable ” cablegrams. The D.T. now de-
spatches Mr. Brient to whoop up the London
cable-liars. In one pocket of his orereoat he has
an essay, to read on the voyage, entitled, “ What
is Ter-ewth?” in the other, “A Shtort History
of Ananias, the Reporter.”
“ Are you a Jehu V asked a solicitor of a
witness in the Police Court at Lansfield (Vic.),
the other week. “Jew !no !!” was the indignant
reply. “ I’m a working man.”
Colonel de Coetlogon, who held Khartoum
for Egypt and England during the interval be-
tween General Hicks’ disaster and the arrival at
that city of General Gordon, is reduced to the
necessity of seeking the post of military prison
warder to enable him to exist.
Mr. Toohey—not the M.L.A , but his
brother—chairman of the Cardinal Moran testi-
monial meetings the other night, paid his audience
a very doubtful compliment. In announcing that
“Mr. Curran and himself would be happy to
receive contributions to the fund,” he told them
where Mr. Curran could be found, and added:
“And you all know where the Brewery is.”
Dr. Steel states that there are, inN.S.W.,
999 clergymen. The Church of England had 223,
and the attendance at public worship was one in
seven of its adherents. The R.C. Church had 255
priests, and the average attendance of adherents
was one in four, whilst Presbyterianism had 136
ministers, and an average attendance of one in
five. The Church of England supported one
minister for every 2044 people, the R. Catholics
one for 1086, and the Presbyterians one for 712.
The champion mean woman lives on a
Northern N.S.W. river. Recently she lost a valu-
able gold watch and advertised for the same,
announcing a liberal reward. An honest, hard-
working farm-labourer found the watch about
three miles from town, and trotted joyfully
back with his find. When he handed it over to the
large-hearted female, she said: “Humph! you
seemed to have knocked the watch about a good
deal, but, however, you may come to the bar and
have any drink you like.”
A London paper says
*• Benzon, the ‘ Jubilee Juggins,’ whose raiment and
recklessness were alike conspicuous at nearly eveiy race
of importance last year, is not expected to participate
very actively in turf doings this season. Since last May
Benzon is said to have spent close Upon £200,000 in
racing, and, considering the surfeit he enjoyed last sea-
son, it is not surprising he has now drawn in his horns.
He was always very free with his siller, and so his absence
is naturally deplored by a good sprinkling of the sporting
iratemity.” , ■
This refers to the youth who was so free with his
“ paper ” when he was in Australia.
The Chinese Ambassador in London,
H. E. Lew Ta-jen, has again memorialised the
Marquis of Salisbury on the subject of restrictive
Chinese legislation in Australia. He asks whether
the imposition of a poll-tax on his countrymen in
Australia is compatible with the existing friendly
relations between British rum and Chinese opium.
We really don’t think it is! But while the taper
digits of the saffron-tinted potentate are chalking
phantasmal memoranda with a stick of Ipdia-ink
on a scroll of rice-paper, the Chinese question in
Australia is being settled by the Australian people
and rapidly going from poll-tax to poll-axe. The
very latest is a cable that the Chinese will send
gunboats to Australian waters.
The Argus has found out that logic is
powerless to defend Imperialism, so it calls in the
aid of etymology to support the falling cause :
“Of Imperialism, with its concomitants in the sense in
which it is understood in Russia and Germany, there can
be no dread. The thing has passed away from the very
thoughts of the English race, or we might say with more
truth that it never had the 'slightest hold upon a people
who were saved from armies and military rule by the in-
violate sea.” -
If Imperialism is dead in England, how does the
Argus explain the Zulu, Boer, and Afghan wars,
the endless war-rumours, earth-lust and worship
of St. Jingo, as rampant now in England amongst
certain classes as in the days England warred
with Erance for her territory ?
According to the Braid wood (N.S.W.)
Dispatch, two new-chum Chinese, who had lately
arrived with their more civilised countrymen at
Little River, took it into their heads that some
cats’ meat would be not only very agreeable to their
taste, but that it would act in a medicinal manner.
They accordingly caught an old tom-cat, known
by the residents of that locality to be about 15
years old, put a noose round its neck, fastened the
other end to a beam, and then bore weight upon
the rope until they had strangled their victim.
After this they held the cat over some burning
logs, and singed all the hair from its skin, and
next put it into hot water, laid it on a board, and
scraped it as a butcher does a pig. Then they
roasted it and partook of its flesh. When
an astonished European expostulated with
them upon this cruelty, he was told
“Chinaman sick, roast cat do him good.”
Apropos, a few years ago, below Mudmelong
(N.S.W.), a Mongolian was choked in trying to
swallow the eyes of a cat, which he firmly believed
would have a salutary effect upon his failing sight.
Let us hope that the cat’s eye will be of as much
service to the departed John in the darker regions
of the next world as they were to the mouser in
ferreting out its living here.
Dr. Creed is the champion conundrumist
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council. He is greatly
exercised about the military defence of the colony,
is always “ wanting to know, you know” a
variety of things about guns and carriages, and
of warlike paraphernalia in general, “The other
night he asked the following questions : —To what
gun do the fittings belong which Colonel Bingham
reported in March, 1887, as lying much exposed
to damage and to the weather on Cir-
cular Quay, apparently in nobody’s charge ?
Who was responsible for these valuable
fittings being thus left unprotected? What
amount has been overpaid to members of the
Soudan Contingent or their representatives?
Have the militai’y accounts for the period ending
30th September, 1887, as referred to by Mr. Chief
Inspector Thompson in his report of 18th October,
1887, yet been adjusted ? Has ammunition ar-
rived to supply the place of that condemned by
the recent board, as reported in answer of 25th
ult. ? If not, has it yet been ordered ?’’ All these
questions are important and to the point, but the
Government pretended to be unable to answer
any of them. Dr. Creed maintains that, for the
thousands annually spent by the colony of N. S,
Wales in military defence, there is not a £lOO-
- of genuine protection afforded.


Amusements.
AIE T Y
Lessee
SUBLESSEES
THEATRE.
Mr. Laurence Foley.
RAINFORD, BARRY
and HERBERT.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
The Great Spectacular Australian
FOILED I
FOILED |
FOILEDj
Drama,
Greeted Nitghly by
Crowded,
Enthusiatic, and
Enraptured Audiences.
f FOILED
I FOILED
1 FOILED
IFOILED
To watch the happy smiling faces nightly
gathered in this elegant Theatre is indeed a bliss-
ful sight, which might bring colour to the blanched
cheek of the sickliest misanthrope, while to listen
to the RIPPLING LAUGHTER of the happy
throng, a laughter which develops into a roar of
hilarious merriment as this great play proceeds, is
a music it does one real good to hear.
PRICES, —35., 25., Is. Box plan at Nichol-
son’s. Day tickets at Mrs. Kavanagh’s, opposite;
and Bohemian Club, next theatre.
Doors open at 7.15, commence at 8.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 19,
The Great Military Drama, CURRENT CASH.
Watch the pictures on the walls.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison,
Doors open 7; Performance 7.30 ; Carriages 10.45,
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST.
Mb. Geo. Rignold as Mkphistophelks.
Miss Kate Bishop as Mabgdebitb.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Gamer, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. at 10.20.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY),
AND EVERY EVENING,
THE MOST CHARMING COMEDY OPERA,
DOROTHY DOROTHY DOROTHY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
R
OYAL
STANDARD THEATRE.
7th
WEEK.
FRANK SMITH 8
BURLESQUE COMPANY.
7th
WEEK.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, TO-NIGHT.
CAMARALZAMAN
CAMARALZAMAN.
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
RITBRION
THEATRE.
C
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
10th WEEK 10th
of the
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT COMEDY
SEASON.
ANOTHER GIGANTIC SUCCESS.
ENTHUSIASTIC and UNQUALIFIED
SUCCESS OF
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, TO-NIGHT,
AND EVERY EVENING,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL
Business Manager Mr. Joe Davis.
JJOTANY. BOTANY.' BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.80.
Grand Sacked and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest I
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director,
Amusements.
Alhambra music hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPT7LI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COMB AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
Australia's queen, Australia's queen.
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
THE MOST POPULAR PLACE OF ENTER-
TAINMENT IN THE CITY.
Look Out for FIELDS, HANSON, and SYLVO.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &o.
Coming Events t
Thursday, May 34,
MANCHESTER UNITY OF ODDFELLOWS FETE.
SPORTS! SPORTS! SPORTS !
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
COOGBB PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS,
AND PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink.
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price*
A. K. STOPFORD, Manager.
rjIHEATRE
ROYAL, KEMPSEY.
This commodious and well-fitted place of amuse-
ment, replete with all modern improvements and
adjoining the Royal Hotel, is now completed.
Dramatic and other professional companies can
be treated with on most liberal terms.
CARL BASCHE,
Proprietor.
V
ICTORIAN ARTISTS’ SOCIETY.
Exhibition of PAINTINGS in the Groavenor
Gallery, Public Library Buildings, Melbourne.
Entrance from Little Lonsdale-street, E.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Admission, Is. Catalogues, Is.
TATTERSALL’S
MOSSIER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Bventt
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
‘ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities li
1 Evening News,” Address, “ Tattersall’s," cart
of George Adams, TattersalTs Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery |
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, on*
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
BRFITO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE ...
... 34 Pitt Street.
...Edwabd Stebbt.
...Spbnoeb Street.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Railway Tbbuinus, Sfbnobb-btbbbt
"TTISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
V has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modem improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor
YORK HOTEL,
BROKEN HILL.
A. OUTER • f ♦ Proprietress,
The York Hotel affords all the comfort of a
Home; civility and cleanliness, combined With
Moderate Charges, being a speciality.
The Hotel is centrally situated for Visitors to
the Mines or Township. All the rooms are lofty
and well ventilated, and luxuriantly furnished.
Large BILLIARD ROOMS, lu which are Two
Splendid Tables.
I3ST All Telegrams or Letters forwarded will
receive Mrs. Oliver’s immediate personal attention
First-class Bath and Sample Rooms.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THH BBIG-HTOIT OB’ 3ST.B W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that ca,n possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
■Victoria,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ik. H Sftarim I Ci,,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, la the
leading Family and- Commercial Hotel In the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths,
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. I. I. Stilting,
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements.
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
UMm
omm
THK
“PLUM
EAZOB.”
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Never
requires {grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. Price, 10/6 each, bond 1.0. Order.
One of the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6 ; a Tin of the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
TVinsnarent Shaving Soap, or a Jar of Non-irritant Shaving Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
suit the climate, 1/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6; Bottle of Bay
Rhum or Yaddo Water for use on the face after shaving, 3/6.
and
fotoioi Saloon, 680 Gcor’o-oM,
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
white end eound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvms, and delight-
i%By fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powder* and acid wash*®
~ad using dally
m Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherche Ingredients of the Oriental
4» j No other”Odonto la gennto®.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL fi® mw soM M ft goMe© (solo&j? S
and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cntaneoa®
- “ '• *->*--*■- * -Jt »nywhere for BOWLATOgf
ompl
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere for.BO'
article*, of *), Hatton Garden, London, and avoid imitoas
Wholesale and Retail Agents—Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
FOWL CHOLERA & RABBIT DISEASES.
TO POULTERERS AND OTHERS.
THE Royal Commission of Inquiry into Schemes for the Extermination of
Rabbits in Australasia are desirous of obtaining, by purchase, Fowls suffering
from CHICKEN CHOLERA. Communications should in the first instance be addressed
to the Secretary of the Commission, Colonial Secretary’s Office, Sydney.
The Commission also invite the fullest information from persons who have observed
rabbits in their neighbourhood dying off, as if from disease.
Bv Order of the Commission.
J HUGH MAHON, Secretary.
I FA&PERRINS SAUCE
dfg
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public . Lea and PemnS
have to. request that Purchasers see that the Isabel onewtyfattfo
fears their Signature thus
as
Without which ho bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
t
Ask fotjLEA and PERRINS* Sauce , and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle anS
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester ; Crosse
Blackwell, London , &c.,&c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
ftgyntA ; MoKysytOßK. Jowsro & C<p „ Pavlp Oqsw* Sf
Brief Mention.
Political capital—loans.
A native boom—a boomerang.
The Chinese must get—bag and cabbage.
There is a constable in N.S.W. called Gil-
trap. Most “traps ” are well-gilt.
The latest is an aboriginal barmaid on a
Queensland field. The diggers rarely take gin,
The name of a big Chow in Melbourne
tersely describes the situation. It is—Lok Out.
Kong Meng says his countrymen are not
wanting in grit. That’s a fact —you might scrape
it off them.
Parkes spoke the other day of how to
conduct a newspaper. He conducted his news-
l>aper to bankruptcy.
A new-chum evangelist in Melbourne calls
himself “ The Christian Athlete ” —he only
wrestles with the devil, however.
“Is our language profane?” asks Rev.
Dr. Bevan, of Melbourne. It all depends upon
the length of the sermon, doctor.
His Honor Water-Jug Foster, officially
declares that a river is an erection. He deduces
this from the fact that water keeps a man straight.
The receipts of the Sydney Zoological
Gardens are falling off. This is due to the beastly
competition of the other brutes in the local Parlia-
ment.
White, a teetotaller, who poisoned him-
self at Boggy Creek, refused to take an emetic,
believing it to be brandy. It would take a lot to
make that man throw up his principles.
William M‘Creadie, writing to the S.M.
Herald, complains of “boy musicians” in a
second-class carriage on the suburban line playing
“ Tooral-i-ooral ”on Sunday. He urges that it is
“sacrilege to have offensive matter like this
crammed down our throats.” Mac. evidently
hears with his gullet.


For Constipation or Dyspapsia
A dose of dr. bell’s bitters taken every night
will in a sho t time ) erform an absolute cure. It
it is well to take a purga ive at least once or twice
a month as a jreventive of disease, and as the
bitters are purely vegetable, and are made with
the greate t care, we know them to be the safest
and most effective purgative ever introduced to
the public. They I ave been sold in this country
for over 50 years, and have in that time attained
an unprecedented popularity.
Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver _ Oil with Hypo-
phosphitbs, acts both as food and medicine. It not only
gives flesh and strength by virtue of its own nutritious
properties, but creates an appetite for food that builds up
the wasted body. Read the following “ Scotts Emul-
sion is, in my opinion, an. excellent and valuable com-
pound. I have given it to consumptive patients, and
have been delighted with the results obtained. It is
pleasant to the taste, and can be borne by the most
sensitive stomach.—E, A. Rodway, M.D., Butter-Knowle,
Darlington, England.” Any Chemist can supply it at
4s. 6d *
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
MaccAssar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ KALYDORremovesfreckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
FATHER IS GETTING WELL.
My daughters say, “How much better father is since
he used Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. He is getting
well after his long suffering from a disease declared incur-
able, and we are so glad, he used your Bitters.” A lady
of Rochester, N.Y.—“ Utica Herald.”
ANSWER THIS.
Did you ever know any person to be ill, without inaction
of the stomach, liver or kidneys, or did you ever know
one who was well when either was obstructed or inactive ?
and did you ever know or hear of any case of the kind
that Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters would not cure ?
Ask your neighbor this same question.—“Times.”
Colonial Maladies. —The Colonists of N.S.W. are to be
congratulated on two grounds. First, that they inhabit a
land where disease, as a rule, prevails in a mild and cur-
able form, and secondly, because the majority have ready
to hand a remedy that does away with the doctor and
medicine chest. This important Medicine was discovered
by Mr. Richard Freeman in 1844, and named by him Chloro-
dyne, which medicine continues to maintain its supremacy
ail over the World as a special and specific remedy for the
treatment and cure of Diarrhoea, Dysentery, Cholerine,
Malaise, Hysteria, pain of every kind, Nervous affections,
Gout, Asthma, Consumption, Coughs, Colds and fever.—
Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
qaving “ Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade Mark, an Elephant.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while i(j is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street,Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and B. Prosser & Co.*
A Lame Back id a toimeit
It is usually ascribed either to a strain or to
rheumatism. Nine times out of ten it is kidney
disease. Be wise in time, take dr. bell’s (Kidney
and Liver) bitters for your lame back and avoid
the dangers of which it is the warning.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Vt
B 6
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing T. .xc in all details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers, &oi; and of the following Special Lines PEERLESS CLOSS, SATIN POLISH, NUBIAN BLACK*
INC’ Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Executed on Favourable Terms.
Business Announcements.
BOW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
Wo recommend these BITTERS to be taken twtf
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,,
and Cotaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon!
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persona suffering from Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two cr three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDIC a L GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
W ith thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters, I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from hver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
honibly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW'S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I hava
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardts
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney*”
3saa
dfg
I
rR
3/6
lIVV
Row’s Steane’s Wins
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed b 7 greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take .
Row's Bteanc/s Wines
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Haying carefully examined a bottle of Row's
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I con ider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly Lee from any injurious
chemicals, too often u ed in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row’s Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the exc.ssive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed. ,
TRY THEM
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES ’
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company,
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
Thb Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
Thb Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members,
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces —
Religious Interference In Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
Influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form —printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus
tralian journal wh.ch denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
Intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all jpurnals issued in Australasia.
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald,
MISS BROWN: “YOU-MUST COME TO MY HOUSE SOME DAY, ELSIE, AND
PLAY.”
ELSIE: “GOT ANY LITTLE BOYS THERE, MISS BROWN?”.
MISS BROWN: “NO. DEAR.”
ELSIE: “GOT ANY LITTLE GIRLS?”
MISS BROWN: “NO, DEAR.”
ELSIE: “THEN WHAT ARE THEY?”
London Figaro published an atrocious
Silver Wedding Song, dedicated to Tummy. This
is the chorus ;—
“ Ring out, ring out, sweet wedding bells !
Ring out, ring out, sweet silver bells !
Ring out, ring out, ring out, ring out,
Sweet Silver Wedding bells ! ’
Six words provide the verse.
“Porkes” and Co. are doomed. Sydney
E. News, riled, no doubt, at Parkes’ maltreat-
ment of Sutherland, speaks in a “scathing
leader ” of “ that political Mephistopheles,
Parkes,” and denounces the proposed paying
away of £8000 “ seruptitiously.” “ While Parlia-
ment lasts,” remarks our esteemed contemporary,
“they can travel on their dubious way with im-
punity; but behind them stalk the headsmen 1”


Business A nnouncements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited,
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property,\ including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years
„ 12 months I
£5 ~ „ 6 months (
£4 ~ ~ 3 months j
Renewable or withdraw-
able on notice in
terms of Prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices; Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
CRAIG &~AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George Street, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and Silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
Ifl
6
dfg
6
ARMY AND NAYY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING.
Is still the most popular Brand in the Market,
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG and AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s.,
145., p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (Apieri can), finely flavored,
best value in the market. |lb. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in £lb. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines fdr the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 George - street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.
LIVER GOUFLAIHT.
SYMPTOMS.
fc-allowness of
Complexion
Lassitude
Pain in Bight Side
Indigestion
General Debility,
etc.,
Hot and Gold
Flushes, Dropsy,
etc, etc, etc
Thk liver is the
largest gland in the
body. It is the
grea t filterer of the
body. All the blood
passes through it to
be refined or poluted
according to the
condition of that
organ. If, by reason
of disease, whether
it be what is
termed Hot, Cold,
Inflamed, Ulcerous,
Obstructed, Jaun-
diced, or whatever
not —it fails to per-
form its true func-
tions, disease and
debility promptly
follow. With a
sound, healthy stomach and pure blood, the liver
will never become diseased. The evidences of its
existence are numerous. Exhaustion, even upon
slight effort—going up hill or up stairs ; costive-
ness of the bowels; a sense of weight or pain
across the lower part of the chest; a greenish hue
of the skin ; sometimes liver spots on the surface 5
burning palms and heat in the soles of the feet;
frequently a dry cough; furred tongue; saltish
taste in the mouth; dull headaches and very
heavy eyelids. Those who suffer from Liver
Complaint are familiar with one or more of the
symptoms above described. A weak, defective
stomach and a bilious state of the same, are the
prime causes of this disease. Any remedy that
will tone up the stomach, cleanse the blood of its
impurities, give strength, vigor and action to the
constitution, will remove the exciting causes and
effect a cure of this common disease. No medi-
cine is so well adapted to remove it, produce pure
blood, and thereby relieve all the organs from the
terrible effects of Liver Complaint, as bell’s
bitters. It has no equal in all cases of Liver
Complaint.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES & QUEENSLAND.
UCHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Eb-otogrrapla-ic IReq.i3.lslt©©.
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES' BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
UCHTNER - & CO.
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—where there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
White as the Driven Bnow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grooera, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
60 Clarence street.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGARETTE!!, also FINEST BRANDS of CMS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
Note this Price !
We Sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand-in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH I
US' By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 BARRACK STREET, S7SKET
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBP. iBD.GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLAEBNCE-STREET.
GBD. GID.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
rjIHOMAS BUCKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln,
ii n Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vic.
Hotels
GLOBE HOTEL, A 1 bury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, ’begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms, Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter,
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
I Professor Newton publishes the very in-
eresting information that “the earth receives
bout three billion of meteors every year, but they
mly increase the size of the earth one inch in a
mndred years. ”
Joseph M. Vanderbilt’s new
yhom he pays £2000 a year—captured the mil-
lonaire’s heart with a dish of wild ducks. After
dicing all the meat off the bird, Joseph put the
oalance of its carcass into a press and squeezed
avery drop of juice out of it. He then cooked
the meat over a spirit-lamp on a silver dish, and
made its sauce out of concentrated duck residuals.
A novel contest was decided in N.S.W.
recently. It goes without saying that the lunatic
asylums are full of poets, and the boss poet of one
asylum challenged the champion versifier of a
rival establishment to a contest. The challenger
was a resident of Glades ville, while the other was
an habitue of Callan Park. The Gladesville poet
sent down his production to his opponent with in-
structions to “ beat that if he could.” It wasn’t
likely that he could ; it Was a magnificent poem,
occupying 57 sheets of crown paper, and com-
mencing : —
“ I am the father of Moses,
And the Jewboys then
Were handsome men,
For I gave them all the noses.”
Then he went on and “spread” himself. He
made several grand achievements in the way of
rhymes. For instance, he made “ rain ” rhyme
with “ goose,” which, as he justly observed, is a
thing very few sane poets could do, and yet, as he
said, “ I am a declared looniac.” Another draw-
back to the success of the poem was that the
gifted author had to knock off every now and
again to kill devils which were accumulating in
his cell. On receipt of the poem the Callan Park
man merely gave three loud whoops and went
off into fits, and had to be confined in a
straight waistcoat and have his head shaved. He
couldn’t cope with it, and the Gladesville man
wildly relates to visitors how he demolished his
adversary, and became the only true rival of
Milton and D. B, W. Sladen.
In two months Croydon (N. Q.) field has
yielded. 15,000oz. gold.
Sweet girl graduate—“ Deah me, how
close the poor cows here are crowded together. I
presume the reason is that they are expected to
give condensed milk.”
Yolapuk won’t work much improvement
in election-cries. An American student thus
Yolapukises “ Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion” :
“ Glem abikal, Romikim, e Fantanata koim pan.”
Miss Eikenstreich paints “ cattle-pieces,”
concerning one of which an art critic says ; —-
“ Miss Eikenstreich's ‘calves’ are not in them-
selves intrinsically interesting ; they stand out
too much.”
The following note was left by a stranger
at the house of the Due de Feltre in the Rue
Saint Dominique, Paris s-*-“ Madame la Duchesse,
—I am Mr. A , who wants to blow out your
husband’s brains. Receive the expression of my
best sentiments. —(Signed) A-——
During the battle of Gettysburg, while
heavy fighting was going on at the front, and the
wounded in great numbers were being carried to
the rear, an officer saw nailed to a tree a paper
which looked like a notice of a horse-race or a
public sale. But it wasn’t. It simply bore the
following notification: “Bodies of officers care-
fully embalmed and forwarded by early express to
their friends for fifty dollars. N.B. —The bodies
of privates at half-price. & , Under-
takers and Embahners.”
At the crowner’s ’quest held on the Botany
suicide, Ah Wai, one of the Chinkie witnesses
deposed that the red stains about the deceased’s
neck and face were not caused by human blood
but by the blood of a duck, which is used as an
antidote when a Chinaman takes an overdose of
opium. He explained that in such cases the bird’s
throat is cut, and the blood poured down the
Chow’s throat; frequently with a satisfactory re-
sult. The coroner missed a fine chance of pointing
out that this was only a “ quack ” remedy. Ail
our judicial humour seems to be centred now in
Judge Dowling.
Maryland, My Maryland.
* * * Pretty Wives,
Lovely daughters and noble men.”
“My farm lies in a rather low and miasmatic
situation, and v
“My wife I ”
“ Who was a very pretty blonde ! ”
Twenty years ago, became
“Sallow !”
“ Hollow-eyed 1 ”
“ Withered and aged 1 ”
. Before her time, from
“Malarial vapors, though she made no particular
complaint, not being of the grumpy kind, yet
causing me great uneasiness.
“ A short time ago I purchased your remedy for
one of the children, who had a very severe attack
of biliousness, and it occurred to me that the
remedy might help my wife, as I found that our
little girl, upon recovery bad
“Lost!”
“ Her sallowness, and looked as fresh as a new
blown daisy. Well the story is soon told. My
wife, to-day, has gained her old-timed beauty with
compound interest, and is now as handsome a
matron (if I do say it myself) as can be found in
this country, which is noted for pretty women.
And I have only Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters to thank for it,
“The dear creature just looked over my
shoulder, and says ‘ I can flatter equal to the days
of our courtship,’ and that reminds me there might
be more pretty wives if my brother farmers would
do as I have done.”
Hoping you may long be spared to do good, I
thankfully remain,
0. L. James,
Beltsville, Prince George Co., Md.,
May 26th, 1886.
tST None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.


CORRESPONDENCE
’“Walter Thorpe”: Minister Clarke’s answer
to Mr. Vaughn, M.L.A. —“ that if Judge Windeyer had
been offended he had the remedy in his own hands ’’—was
sublimely insolent and quite beside the question. It is a
monstrous farce to impose upon Judge Windeyer, the as-
sailed official, the duty of saying whether or not action shall
be taken against his accusers. The report of Mr. Vaughn’s
speech in Hansard is the most startling we have read for
years ; and those who remember what comparatively
trifling offences have led to the Sydney Press being pro-
secuted for contempt of court are filled with astonishment
at the present inaction of the authorities. Should no
steps be taken in this matter the public will
only be able to form one conclusion....“ 0.H.” :
How can you expect to find brains in a F00t(e)?....
“ Joskin ” : The evolutionary theory is that all forms of
life are merely the modifications of the universal life-
principle. Man’s ancestry didn't begin with the monkey.
According to Darwin, the anthropomorphic ape is only
the nearest link to man in the chain of Imperial Federa-
tion. All organic life-forms are reducible to the single
protoplasmic germ, and this protoplasmic germ is again
reducible by chemical analysis to salt, water, ammonia,
and something which constitutes the agent of the union
of these inorganic substances in the protoplasmic germ.
With this dissection into inorganic matter organic life-
forms melt into that section of matter popularly supposed
to be without consciousness of any kind, and the universe
becomes one single entity. (2.) Portia, in “ The Merchant
of Venice,” was invited by the Duke as a doctor of laws to
sit in judgment on the case between Shylock and Antonio.
...“ 5.J.8.” : The modern professional Freethinker is the
unsympathetic and unlovely Puritan turned Atheist
“ R. Ferguson ” : We would do a lot to oblige you, Fer-
guson, but your yarn is too profane. All the swearing
that is absolutely required in this office is done on the
premises “L. Fogarty”: Your style is too bald. A
little picturesque lying is wanted to fill in the finer shades
of the narrative, begorra.. ..“E.E.”: Your humour
“would cast a damper even over a funeral.” “Pew-
opener”: Thanks for yarn; but what made you choose
such a nom de plume ? “ J.F.” (Isisford): Thanks....
“Constant Reader” (Sydney): If you call, we will give
you a recommendation... “ Incognito ” (Sydney): Thanks.
..." Billee Fontanei ” : You say you have been reading Tub
Bulletin regularly for two years and want to “ know why
it has such a down on Sir Henry Parkes.” If you have
regularly read The Bulletin for two years and don’t yet
know why we have “such a down on Sir Henry Parkes’’
you had better stop reading The Bulletin, as it can’t be
doing you much good. It evidently isn't adapted to your
intellect. Considering how dull you must be it is quite
wonderful that you have, in so short a period as two years,
been able to arrive at the conclusion that The Bulletin
does dislike Parkes. Had you not shown symptoms of such a
belief it would have been necessary to force you into
strict seclusion and put you under the shower-bath twice a
day “ E.S.” : But which N.S.W. Minister secretly gives
information concerning his department to the evening
press ? “J. Spondulix ” : Thanks ; already noticed
“ E.S.”: Parkes and Gillies are merely popularity-hunt-
ing humbugs. They thought to rise to heaven on the
anti-Chinese wave,, which has, after all, only left them
bruised and battered on the beach. They denied the
Chinaman his legal rights ; they knew him not to be
politically powerful. It makes one despair of Australia
and Australians to see the ordinary forms of law sus-
pended in order to hound down those who may be weak
and unpopular. Parkes’ course was a very simple one.
In the first place, the appeal to Great Britain was a mis-
take—a practical surrender of the right of self govern-
ment. By appealing to the Imperial authorities much
valuable time was lost, also. The quarantining of the
Chinese who embarked for Australia on the understand-
ing that international relations permitted them to land
here, was a cowardly mistake. The Chinese ought to have
been allowed to land because the existing law was in
favour of them doing to. A Bill could have been brought
in weeks ago to absolutely prohibit—in the very teeth of
Great Britain—all Chinese immigration after a specified
date. This would have been just and humane, and this
is the course N.Z. is adopting “ Tarquin” (Brisbane):
Sorry your items overlooked. Please write again
“Austral”: We do not appreciate the necessity for the
comparison you institute between yourself and the work-
man. Did The Bulletin ever sneer at the man
who has to earn his living by “hard graft?”
“ Moorabinda ” : Received “K. Mackay”: Will
write “ Belyando Jim”: Thanks for item “ Aus.
tralian Native ” ; For future consideration “ Singular
Likeness ” : By-and-bye “ Zeph ” : Abbreviation
would add 50 per cent, to the value of your “ screed.”
“A Lover of H.” : Shall have to get your letter
microscopically examined “Robert Gray”: Will
prayerfully consider....“ J.F.”(Lithgow): Will write....
“Ellen Hosking” (Ross Island, N.Q.): Thanks
“ Michl. Corliss” (Herber’on, Q.): We may probably
give a summary.... “W. J.S.” : Hardly suited.... “ Holy
Joe” (Dry Lake): Item very good; will use “Ham-
let ” (Numurkah, Vic.): Your verses are stronger in senti-
ment than in rhyme and rhythm “J. H. Byrne”;
Even a young Australian ought not to consider a ton of
patriotism as compensation for an ounce of freshness or
originality “Local Poet” (Eohuca) : Thanks
“Imposture Exposer”: It is very long, and therefore
difficult to make use 0f.... “ Oyster Johnnie ” : The MSS.
w ere lost sight of somehow, and resurrected only the
other day. This accounts for the delay ' in re “Twenty
Bad Sovereigns.” “One of Them”; Will read and
consider.E.D.” (North Melb.): In future
“ J. Myall ” : Capital letter ; may print in future issue....
“John Alexander”: Will try and use “Bill Nye”
(Tooloombah, Q.): Thanks.... “ Silko ” (Ballarat): Deeply
sympathise with you in re the J. L. Sullivan versus
Mitchell fight. The Argonaut scribe shall be suppressed.
“Ed. G. Holmes” (Ipswich, Q.): Thanks. Will
perhaps use....“ Max Stolzle”: Shall review the whole
question shortly.... “ Zeph ”: Received.
Wilson Barrett has sold the Australian
rights of “The Golden Ladder” to Bland Holt
for £5OO.
Maggie Knight, a favourite whose talent
and beauty never grow stale, is again in Australia,
and will, it is hoped, shortly reappear on the stage.
If you want a suit of clothes, which, for fit,
style and finish, cannot be beaten, go to Leusohner
and Maguire, 72 King-street.*
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankston, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and saltwater baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
The Referee
The Australian Eleven have opened well
in England, and their success against Mr. Thorn-
ton’s team should place them in good heart for
future engagements. Ferris took bowling
honors, so ft would appear that his arm
has recovered and retains its old cunning. In
their second match, against Warwickshire, the
Australians made 346 and a one innings win, but
the victory is not much to boast of as Warwick-
shire is about the weakest county in England.
• • •
Rumour has it that bickering has already
commenced in the ranks of the Australian Eleven.
• * *
Whatmore, of the St. Leonards Bicycle
Club, won the double at the Eastern Suburbs
Athletic Club sports on Saturday. The fields
were of very moderate quality. P. Higgs won
the 1000yds. flat race in 2min. 30sec., which is
given as a 1 i record,” but it is not so, as when
Atkinson defeated Middleton by a foot or so at
the same club’s sports some years ago the distance
was covered in 2min. 27sec.
The English footballers—and the doctors
—are hard at it in New Zealand. On Monday,
the Britishers defeated Wellington by four points
to one. One Wellingtonian got his leg broken.
• *
The Sydney “bike” men say they are
rroing to take the other colonies by storm this
season, with which object the captain of the
5.8.0. is organising a team to visit Melbourne
8.0. race-meeting in November.
* • *
The daily papers, as is their custom, made
one-sided comments on the Australian Eleven’s
opening victory. They drew attention to the fact
that our men couldn’t yet be in their best form,
without adding that their opponents (excepting
W. W. Read and Abel) had not played cncket
since September last. And the dailies tried to
ffild the fine gold of Turner and Ferns perform-
ances by saying that they bowled on a batsman s
wicket. Such a wicket would be impossible to
find in England during the early part of May.
Doubtless, the ground was a bit soft, as it will be
in the majority of the matches, especially those
played in the north of England. And time will
prove that the Australians will generally show to
most advantage when there is comparatively small
scoring on botn sides. #
Goschen proposes a tax of £5 each on
racehorses- . ,
• *
Steeplechase Jockey Batty, who recently
was so unfortunate as to lose an eye, is about to
seek the calm retirement of a Sydney hotel.
, * *
“The Ballarat Football Club,” says a
local paper, “intends assuring its members
against accident this year.” They will have some
difficulty in prevailing upon a company to accept
the umpire’s policy.
* • •
Teemer and Oaudaur, the American
scullers, are to row on 30th May for “gate.
Gaudaur’s backer says until be sees whether
Gaudaur has recovered his old form he does not
care about putting up a large stake, but should
his man show good work before the 30th he will
back him for any reasonable amount.
* * *
Bolton Green’s stock have been showing
wonderfully good form at recent Victorian
meetings.
* * *
It is the merest farce to cable from Eng-
land the result of the One Thousand Guineas.
The race, being for fillies only, excites little or no
attention at home, and very rarely is a wager
made on the result until the previous night.
F. J. K. Cross, the crack English amateur
runner, has just covered half a mile in Imin.
54 2-ssee., one second faster than ex-American
amateur Myer’s previous best on record.
The Bulletin will next week be published
a day earlier, t'.e., on Wednesday, 23rd May,
instead of Thursday, 24th, which is a general
holiday.
- A Melbourne female has teen
a month because she was found doing the Block in
nothing but a jacket. ~
The Victorian Railway Department paid
Mr. Purves, Q.C., £787 for 15 days’work at the
Windsor accident inquest.
A divorcee was lately re-married in a
French Catholic Church. This is the first instance
of the Roman Catholic Church sanctioning such a
ViV.
UlUon ’ , ,*
Australian Native Purves recently stood
on a platform and stated that “he who did not
dare attempt the achievement of his object would
never achieve it.” The meeting hailed this in-
contestable truth with loud and prolonged ap-
P lause - . , .
Immediately on returning to his committee-
rooms, after the declaration of the poll, Griffith
announced that his political career was at an end.
He repeated this to several of his supporters, and
then drove away to his home down the river,
utterly worn-out and broken-spirited.
An errand and general utility boy in a
’Frisco lodging-house claimed to be the son and
heir of Gershom P. Jessop, deceased. He proved
his case and came in for an estate worth £20,000.
He was born out of wedlock, but legitimised
through subsequent by his father.
“What’s the fare? asked Blueskm
Royce of a Dublin cabman. “ Well, your honor,
Misther O’Toole (meaning J. L.), he always gave
me two bob when I brought him home from the
theather, but, bedad, you’re a better acthor
entoirely, and I’ll lave it to your honor.”
Our Commonwealth, a S.A. Radical
„
organ, thus orates . M •
,<r rhp Hnko of Brunuufli-6Hi"”W g higrd MftnchGstßi is
honouring the colonies with another visit. He is cordially
welcomed by the same politicians who pretend to be m
ao«>rd with the workers in their objections to the presence
of the Chinese. And yet men of his class are more
dAngerous and do more hajm to the workers than all the
will enable him to piake slaves of hundreds of thousands
of Australian workers. He will secure to himself, his
heirs, executors, and assigns for ever the sole right of using
certain portions of the Australian colonies, which will
entitle them—as they blindly believe—to draw annually
without working, an ever-increasing portion of the wealth
produced by the labour of our children and our children’s
children for ever and ever. Doesn’t he wish they may get
it 1 We are afraid that game is rapidly being played out
and will not last much longer.”
The oldest Australian pressman is Mr,
Edmund Stirling, late proprietor and editor of the
Perth (W.A.) Inquirer, in which he still holds
some interest. The Inquirer, after the S.M,
Herald, is the longest-established paper in the
Continent. Mr. Stirling, who is now on a visit to
Melbourne, has seen much old colonial life and
incident. He was born in Waterloo year and arrived
at Freeman tie in 1830, being then only 15yeais
old. He is now 73, with an Australian journalistic
record of 56 years’ work. He began at the age of
18 and assisted in conducting a MS. newspaper
—the earliest local publication of any sort
in the Swan River settlement. In 1833 a
lot of old type and an ancient press were
brought over from Van Diemen’s Land, and buy-
ing the entire plant, he, with others, started the
Freemantle Observer. A year or so later he
launched the Perth Gazette (afterwards the
Perth Independent) and the West Australian
Times, which was ultimately transmuted into the
West Australian. In 1842 he became pro-
prietor of the Perth Inquirer, and continued to
conduct it until about 1883. When Mr. Stirling
first landed at Freemantle, Sydney was still a con-
vict settlement, the colonies of Queensland and
Victoria were undreamt of, John Pascoe Fawkner
and John Batman were keeping sheep in Tas-
mania, and the Hentys were looking round for a
place upon which to rest the soles of their feet.
A late Minister in Turkey states, First:
“ That a Mussulman nurse of an infant child must
be of that faith and chaste and pure, and must re-
frain from drinking wine and eating pork.”
Second: “The children nursed by one woman
cannot intermarry.” Third: “Their fathers and
mothers cannot marry any of the children nursed
by the same woman who nursed their child.” In
all this, save the pre-requisite of Mussulman faith,
the Orientals are wiser than the Occidentals. The
design to protect children given over to wet-nurs-
ing from that corruption of blood generally which,
of course, corrupts the lacteal fluid cannot be
too highly commended. Drinking fermented
liquors during the time of nursing drives the
blood so rapidly through the arteries that the
imbiber is kept in a condition of excite-
ment incompatable with her duty. The Gada-
renes hated pork because it was liable to peculiar
disease, and in our day the many deaths and
diseases produced by trichinosis show that they
had reason for their antipathy to the porcine tribe.
Children are constantly poisoned by unwholesome
drink and animal food taken by mothers and
nurses, and it is no wonder that they die in great
numbers at times or go through life with heredi-
tary taints and diseases. The Turks know that
the blood is! the animal life, if they do not know
that the nervous system is the seat of the soul
life. A nurse, therefore, who furnishes blood con-
verted into milk for the purpose of clothing with a
proper form an infant human being, so that such
a form can progress toward the adult man or
woman, becomes not only a foster-mother but a
natural-blood mother. She lacteally feeds a child
until both are of one blood. Indeed, although dur-
ing one period there was blood-identity of mother
and babe, a little reflection will cause any one to
perceive that after the constant nursing of a wet
nurse until the time when coarser food takes the
place of milk she will have imparted to a child an
equal or a greater volume of her blood than had
the mother herself. Hence the Turks are sensi-
tive about blood-relationship in such cases, and
while they may go a little too far in the third pro-
hibition mentioned they certainly are right in the
second intermarriage prohibition. It is a habit
to send missionaries to, the Orient. _ A few Mus-
sulman missionaries might be serviceable in the
Western countries.
The City Provident Dispensary, 603 George-street, Brick
field Hill, between Liverpool and Goulburn streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpence. The Resident
Medical Officer (a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand,
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays 9to 10, Evenings 7to 9.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Queen’s
Birthday Cup, May 24 ; 2000 Subscribers at 10s,
each. First Horse, £400; Second, 200; Third,
£100; Starters, £lOO ; Non-starters, £lOO (divided
amongst them), and 50 Cash Prizes at £2 each.
Also The Queen’s Birthday Cup, 3000 Subscribers
at 20s. each. First Horse, £1,500; Second, £600;
Third, £300; Starters, £300; Non-starters, £3OO
(divided amongst them). The Winter stakes, run
June 9th. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £800; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please registrar all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ODE TO HAND AN.”
I hold it truth with him who slings
His ink to make the needed cash,
’Tis better to have written trash
Than not have written anything.
And so I take the nimble pen
To write a line of sage advice
To Hanlan ; “Though you’re beaten thrice,
Come back, old man, and try again.”
We did not love you while the cup
Was yours of praise and high renown ;
We will not hit you when you’re down—
Good bye ! and keep your pecker up.
In you one virtue stood contest,
While men are bought and races sold,
While every sport is spoilt by gold,
You always did your level best.
THAT BAH BOY.
if I*^ r °^r.
*• ■— k-
Now, the one failing common to most human crea-
Is love of destruction —to smash all they can,
So a smile of intelligence lit up his features,
And he steered for the hat, did that leggy young
man.
And he hit it! and then—there were fireworks ! and language !
The atmosphere bulged with expressions profane,
For that youth and his bicycle spilled with a bang which
Shook half his back-teeth out, and filled him with pam.
We can’t even hint what he called that belltopper —
Whole strings of strange adjectives all in a breath
Were applied to the hat that had caused him a cropper
He wouldn’t forget till the day after death.
His backbone was bent, and his pride lacerated,
With petulant feelings his bosom did throb,
As he solemnly prayed that for ever cremated
Might be the blank boy who had put up that job.
Now, bicyclists bold, this advice let us ofier —
For the bad boy deviseth full many a trick :
Whatever you go for, don’t try to ride over
A hat that’s located on top of a brick !
Sydney, 1888,
A. FEY.
PETER KEMP
INTERVIEWED BY AN AMERICAN
REPORTER.
Reporter: “I presume, Mr. Kemp, you had
every confidence in yourself that you would win
the race long before you entered your boat?”
“ Well, yes, I did.” Reporter ; “ What gave you
that confidence?” “My nerve power and main
strength.” Reporter: “ What gave you that
nerve power?” “The famous St. Louis Lager
Beer.” Reporter: “Then you do believe in
training on that nerve and strength-giving
American nectar?” “Yes, sir, I attribute my
great success by training on it.” Reporter :
‘ ‘ When you were training Mr. Beach did you
recommend him to drink it ? ” “I did ; he used
no other beer.” Reporter: “I hear you intend
sending a challenge to Hanlan to row you from
Sydney to San Francisco for £lO,OOO ? ” .“ Well,
I did not say so, but think I could do it —after
a few years’ training ; I am just as good on
rough as on smooth water, only one requires
more practice than the other.” Reporter :
“Don’t you think you would be pumped out ? ”
“ No, not as long as I could get the famous St.
Louis Lager Beer.” Reporter : “ Then it’s the
St. Louis Lager Beer you would rely upon giving
you the nerve power and main strength ?
“ Yes.” I thank you for your courtesy and kind-
ness ; I am pleased through you to speak to my
American friends.*
