

I Ule n
° m Pany’s service between ENGLAND and the COLONIES has recently been augmented by the following Four
Steamers, built especially for the Australian Trade, and which have now taken their regular place in the
Company’s programme. These Steamers are the
)
COMPANY.
He
«St
(
IEITMIUL’
t
f°ns ; 7000 horse-power; fitted with all the most modern improvements for FIRST and SECOND SALOON
Passengers the accommodation offered being unsurpassed.
The following Departures have been arranged
&
%
Ni
And henceforth every alternate week. The Steamers marked # do not touch at Colombo.
PASSAGE MONEY has [been GREATLY REDUCED, and is now as follows :■
mara urn
RUT M, m It £7O;
SEOOIO „ £OO to £O7;
BETHU, £lOO to £llO.
mil, £54 to £O5,
“formation, apply to
<>- WEIR, Agent, 247
George-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin


Business A nnouncements.
ARD MAN Bros.
GoidenSyrdp/
A/SO
lR€AC££
jfeHgsauagaaSgtelß^a;™^"'.^
OEMgaiBS ®>
3^»ua
HtAB 6ffiC£ * fACT Off Y. NEWTOWN
Branch. £eo/?ce S r Sydney
Wavex ley Hotel,
GOLLINS-PLACE, COLLINb* STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Comfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements
TOBACCO
m
'p
*
a
a
33
o
'
ynQ\
SIR ROGER
SO
C
a
)r
□IXSONS
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office :
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
CHRISTIE’S
PU EMM! AGM
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
70 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATES.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
limply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
FAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS. &0.,
and taken internally cures DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other
Internal aches and pains.
jjfctMfc 3ZJ- l^erywafjy
t/C/tiOUITON, mi MftPfilETM,
AND BYi>DrsY,
PAINT
WANTED, Files of The Bumjetin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Buliktin
Business A nnouncements.
r t
MM
. -
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, a? d condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kenb-street.
R
M. R I L E 1
(labe of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Abaeonderg and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Rents and debts collected. Front R. M. Il.'s long experience
in the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct ail inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to ail business entrusted to his care.
rjirp PRESCRIPTIONS are to
■ SlCalm be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cnre of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address—
S, WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pnarmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney,
6. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &C.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
W E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE'S
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
caxj HE] ITSX4-A.lsriD„
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
A SOVEREIGN TmJT
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Ticj
Dolorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those exoruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days f
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Byes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tea-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by. the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street, only.
Business Announcements
McLEAN BROS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
o
c
s
IRONMONGERS
o
H/
0
V
%
V?
S
UaWs’ Sawing, TfiaGiims, Astoestoa RStou SariMm lAgiiiX
BllaBlO'ERO-leX.A.TBm W4BK, COTGWIW, 100X.S.
GIAS COOKING 8TOYK9 t—LKONXS FLETCHF.WS JBANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, Sco., &o.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! rQll
AG AINST ALL RlS#>
BY TAKING
{RUSE’S FLU
II Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of P ise
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALU OT#
(Fide Medical Testimonials , Analysis, &c„ accompanying each bott
TAKE ONLY
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT
0$
$
Qitlcura
m
*O%
on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
& A
§or oft**
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
ii/ tion*, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
ILoathsomc Sore*, and every ipecle* of Itching,
3«aly r Pimply, Inherited, Sorofulou*. and Syphl-
Uti« Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
ILom of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Outicuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
internally, and Outicuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
great Skin Cure* and Beautifier*, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Disease*,
Baker*’, Barber*’, Grocer*’, Washerwoman’* Itch,
Itching Pile*, and Delicate Irritation* peculiar
to both *exe«, instantly relieved by a warm bath
tkith Outicuba Soap and a single application of
Outicuba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
iaily, with three dose* of Cuticuba Resolvent
vTiil speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin ant
3«»lp, when all other means absolutely fail.
A. Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plate*, i* wrapped about the Re-
OOLyent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
omnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
repeat thi* story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for year* from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Have been obliged to shun puDlic places by reason
Of my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy-
aleians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
»o relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
as pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
book, “How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Austbaliak Consignees,
*. Town* Jtt Do— Ksv SoTit.h Wa,l«s.
nUTICURA RESOLVES.
\J fler, Diuretic, and Aperient? J f fair
and Perspiration of all impurity >
Elements, and thus removes thei e
it cures speedily, permanently
Cuticura, the Great Skin
Jelly for external use), instantlj -Mr;-,
Inflammation,clears the Skin ann1
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys P 4 ;* io g w
heals Ulcers, Sores, and
stores the Hair, and beautifies the
Cuticura Soap, an exquipt® i GWaffllSp
and Toilet Requisite, prepared 1 . „ e9 ,»e*< p
indispensable in treating Skin lg* s
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly ** ea gf
burn, and Rough, Chapped,
Cuticura Remedies are of
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers s'
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
table poison whatsoever. C* u , a /t« of ,
pure by the Analytical Chenai*
Massachusetts.
For Sale
by all retail chenfil^*^
druggists throughout Australia. j-\ 0 S> P |J “
Zealand. Cuticura, 60 cents P®‘ f
$1.00; 'Juticuba Soap, 25 oeaU> b_0O^ v
im ic/iP, 15 cents; Cuticua*- **
per bottle.
PrXFAMD ** T *^
!¥W*»» n*s» 4k ChBrnirt* 1
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL,
it
W
torj
THE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and others- (J.-fj
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study. Ov2 0 f>^e vB *
HalL Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables. ■ L<e
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXES.
J. J. FALLON. P rot


The Bulletin
Vol. 9-No. 432
SATURDAY, MAY 12, 1888.
Price, 6d
A Theatrical Manager.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
'{payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ••• ••• •••
Half-yearly
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
'Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted -
'whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony- you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tiie Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
itiSJßuUetCa.
SATURDAY, MAY 12.
Why Men Don't Marry.
Foil close on a generation the European
marriage-rate has been decreasing. Nowhere,
however, has the decrease so significantly
manifested itself as in the United Kingdom.
In the British Islands for every 18 couples
(174 to be precise) to the 1000 inhabitants in
1868, scarcely more than 14 approach the
altar or the registry-office to-day for the
purpose of being made one. This
means that in Great Britain alone over
100,000 fewer marriages were solemnised
last year than would have been the case had
the rate of 20 years since been maintained.
In other words, in one small country 100,000
women of marriageable age are yearly left
to become maiden aunts or disconsolate
virgins when they might have been wives
and mothers.
* . • *
If this state of things is sad—as it cer-
tainly is—the reasons given for it by English
and by Australian journals are inexpressibly
droll. It is said, for instance, that young
men do not marry because they are more
exacting than formerly ; they want to pre-
serve in married life the same independence,
not to say license, they possessed when
single. It is further hinted that men post-
pone marriage until assured of a competence,
the prospect of a cottage, with or without
love, having lost whatever attractions it
may have formerly possessed. The writers,
in fact, who have endeavoured to discover
the cause of the steadily-increasing unwill-
ingness of men to face the responsibilities of
marriage have carefully avoided touching on
what appears the most potent cause of all.
They have unearthed a number of subsidiary
reasons while leaving the principal one un-
touched. It is not so much the fear of
restraint that keeps a man from entering
that social union so clearly designed by
Nature. It is the rapidly-growing suspicion
that owing to an insensate system, the woman
of to-day, in a vast majority of cases, is a
clog not alone on his worldly prospects, but
on his higher life.
• * *
There is no reason to suppose that the
modern woman of civilised society is inferior
either intellectually or morally to her pre-
decessors. But there is every reason to con-
clude that, owing, as we have said, to an absurd
system of training, she comes to the battle of
life far less judiciously equipped than her
forbears. the English-speaking folk
of the British there are at present
growing up millions of girls who are being
diligently taught what in womanhood they
will quickly forget, while the lessons which
would be of inestimable service in after life
are studiously neglected. One curious feature
in connection with the alarming fall in the
English marriage-rate is that it upsets another
so-called law which was discovered and
dilated on by Buckle over 30 years ago.
That remarkable author of a remarkable book
ventured the positive statement that wars
were becoming less frequent. Scarcely were
his lines dry when the Russians crossed the
Pruth and the Allies started for the Crimea.
Since that date some of the bloodiest wars in
the annals of mankind have taken place, w hile
at the present moment signs are not wanting
that Europe is on the eve of a bloodier and
more protracted struggle still. Again, he
conclusively proved by carefully-compiled
statistics that there was an inverse ratio
between the marriage-rate and the price of
flour—the former going up while the litter
went down, and vice versa. Thus a dear
loaf was supposed to mean fewer banns,
while cheap bread implied more bridals. For
the last 20 years, however, the ratio has
been direct instead of inverse, the price of
flour having steadily fallen and the per-
centage of nuptials with it. Thus it appears
that not even the temptation of a cheap
breakfast-table consequent on the triumph
of Freetrade has been suflicient to induce
the young Englishman to provide for his
neighbour’s daughter.
• • *
In savage life the woman does everything.
As civilisation progresses she becomes less of
a slave and more of an equal. This is as it
should be. The misfortune is that she has
not only long ceased to do everything, but,
if the present system of female education
continue, there is a fair likelihood of her being
unfitted to do anything at all. Nor is this
the worst. To do nothing is bad: but it is
not as bad as to do something badly. For a
young person to be ignorant of the piano is
a misfortune. It is doubtful, however,
whether it is so actively irritating as the
ability to play a negro melody by ear. To
dwell for a moment on this subject of music
alone, there is no doubt that harmony is a
necessary ingredient in happiness. Without
the former the latter is incomplete and un-
satisfactory. Still, it is extremely question-
able whether the average woman’s acquain-
tance with harmony in the form of ability
to extract a succession of pleasing sounds
from a piano is of much moment in inducing
the average male to remain at home. Indeed,
the opinion appears to be gaining ground that
the expensive instrument in the “best room ’
is frequently the cause of that apartment s
being avoided by the head of the house.
Such, however, is the tyranny of custom ;
■such the stupid adherence to a stupid
system, that time, trouble and treasure are
expended prodigally in teaching young
people an art in which Nature has de-
creed that most of them can never attain
even mediocrity—an art which it will be
the study of their maturer years to forget.
We instance this as an example of the pains
taken in numberless cases to fit young per-
sons for the inevitable struggle of life by
arming them with weapons whose use they
arc neither desirous nor capable of master-
ing. This must not be thought a narrow or
ungenerous view to take of that much-de-
bated subject—female education. We yield
to none in our desire to see opportunities
for the highest culture brought to the doors
of all, irrespective of sex, who evince the
necessary love and aptitude for them. But
when it is remembered that woman’s chief
mission—however dainty theorists have en-
deavoured to ignore it—is, has been, and
always will be, to become the mother of
sturdy children, it is surely not too much to
expect that the knowledge necessary to
enable her to perform worthily her assigned
part in Nature’s scheme should not be with-
held. One of the minor reasons, then, for
the significant fall in the marriage-rate might
be sought and found in the fact that, while
the pressure of numbers and the conse-
quently greater difficulty in making a living
at all are yearly increasing, the ordinary
training of women is such as unfits them for
taking their fair share in the work.
» • •
The fact is that, owing to many causes—
chief among them being the tendency of
female education to lessen the chances of
woman’s becoming a real helpmate —the
young men of to-day begin to see in the
marriage contract an entirely one-sided ar-
rangement. Hence they avoid it in yearly
increasing numbers. The man, in a word,
has all the worst of the bargain. It is sweet,
no doubt, -to know there is a comely wife
whose ear will be the first to catch your ap-
proaching footsteps ; pleasant to see win-
some bairns in whose veins your blood
runs merrily. But if the price paid for
these pleasures is unremitting toil and pros-
pective poverty; if the independence of
bachelorhood has to give place to a life of
dependence, perhaps of squalor, it is little
wonder that so many young men pause on
the threshold. To the great majority of
men marriage means the difference between
wearing their hats on their heads and in
their hands. In the heyday of his strength
the man finds himself face to face with the
cruel alternative —a natural life accom-
panied with penury, or a life comparatively
independent but devoid of those ties which
give existence a meaning. For it is not so
much what our odd system of female train-
ing does in the direction of unfitting women
to assist in keeping the family pot boiling as
what it leaves undone. ' Take, for instance,
the all-important question of money and its
value. It is not too much to say that of 10
women who have never had to earn their
daily bread scarcely two know how to spend
money to advantage. Being unacquainted
with the work, or thought required to obtain
it, they are ignorant of its value. So it
results that in the preponderance of cases it
is a hazardous experiment to set an attractive
young woman down in sight of a row of
showy shops with a five-pound note in her
purse. Let her but see an article possessing
the dual attractions of dearness and useless-
ness, and the chances are much in favour of
her becoming a purchaser. Should she have
children whose happiness is sensibly aug-
mented by the possession of inexpensive or
durable toys —such as bricks, cast-iron
animals, or other interest-exciting articles
not easily rendered unserviceable —the affec-
tionate parent returns home with an assort-
ment of playthings which the industrious
makers fashioned so dexterously as to ensure
their falling to pieces on the least encourage-
ment. The male parent on returning from
his workshop or his office observes with
thankfulness that the money he toiled to
procure is being laid out to advantage. This
naturally makes him grateful for the good
fortune that some years previously threw in
his path the careful young woman who at the
tea-table takes a seat opposite him, beaming
with the consciousness of having worthily
performed her part of the contract.
• • *
Observe the difference between the training
of the fairly well-to-do Continental female and
that of her British or Australian sister. In
any of the garrison towns in France daintily-
dressed officers’ wives may be seen attending
market and expending the allotted portion
of their husband’s slender pay in providing
for the family’s modest table. The poulterer,
fruiterer or “coster,” who succeeded in selling
those well-bred ladies an attenuated fowl or
an imperfectly-developed cauliflower, would
require to be a person of abnormal persua-
siveness. But —and we say it with extreme
regret—the English or Australian lady in
similar circumstances would not attend
market at all but remain at home and become
a ready victim to the first glib-tongUed vendor
of doubtful ducks or malodorous fish who
happened to call. It was but the other
day we heard an elderly lady say on
observing the slovenly daughters of a strug-
gling free-selector engaged in pounding polkas
on a primitive piano, “What'the good
will they be to any men?” It may have been
coarse—it was certainly true. She had been
her husband’s true helpmate, had faced
poverty with him and Elided him in attaining
affluence. Had she been as they, she and
her husband would be, figuratively speaking,
in the gutter still.
* * *
The average man if in very poor circum-
stances teaches his sons to rely on hard
labour for a livelihood until something better
comes in their way. If in a slightly superior
position, he puts his boys to a trade, or
endeavours in some way to get them taught
how to be useful. Men of independent
means either leave their lads legacies or put
them to professions —frequently both. How
different with daughters ! It is not that
they are not taught professions or trades ; it
is not that they are not trained to hard
work. Young men neither demand nor
desire such accomplishments in their in-
tended wives. What they do expect is that
the women taken to their homes may have
been trained to assist, not to retard, their
husbands’ careers that marriage need not
necessarily spell penury. In a word, the
ominous decrease in the marriage-rate is a
symptom, not so much that young men are
afraid to chance .poverty, as that in the
balance of cases poverty, with all its unlovely
surroundings, must necessarily follow as a
consequence of the insensate method or
want of method employed in fitting woman
for her mission.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Policeman Hex on Literary Morality.
In a Sydney police-court lately a bookseller was
fined for selling a certain well-advertised book by
Charles Bbadlaugh and Annie Besant, two
exceedingly clever and philosophical people. Now
the work in question is simply a practical applica-
tion of the teachings of Mr. Malthus (a clergy-
man of the Church of England), Harriet Mar-
tineau, and —in a recent sermon—the present
Archbishop of Canterbury, besides dozens of other
equally well-known and eminently “ respectable ”
people. Without for a moment endorsing the
opinions of Mr. Malthus, whose argument has been
capably replied to by Henry George, we beg to
enquire with all due respect to the majesty of the
law as embodied in the sacred personality of Police-
man Hex, what in thunder are the qualifications of
the efficient “ drunk ’’-arrester aforesaid to deal
with a complicated and abstruse question in
political economy or sexual philosophy ? Neither
are we prepared to admit the prerogative of
a stipendiary magistrate to deal off-hand from
his seat on a police-court Bench with questions
involving the material welfare of the human
population of the earth, yet Mr. Delohery,
D.S.M., of Sydney, gave as his reason for the
prosecution of the pamphlet in question that he
thought were it to get into the hands of young
people “it would not only corrupt their morals
but ivould seriously affect the law of population. ”
That is to say ; the rise and progress of such a
beneficent institution as the N.S.W. Benevolent
Asylum might be seriously arrested and cases
of wife-desertion show a considerable diminu-
tion in number. We believe, with Henry
George, that under just and logical condi-
tions the earth is quite capable of supporting
air her children; but certainly under existing
conditions the law of Malthus regarding popu-
lation is hideously operative. New South Wales
alone contains in her sparsely-peopled area
over 7000 unemployed, and yet the Bench feared
that promiscuous perusal of the book forming the
basis of the prosecution would tend to ‘ ‘ seriously
affect the law of population.” Whence this tender-
ness for replenishing the over burdened country ?
Another legal light considered chat Bradlaugh
and Besant’s book was “ not written by a scien-
tific person, ” that it was not sold for scientific pur-
poses, nor was it bought for the purposes of study-
ing science. This gentleman must be very inno-
cent if he does not know that the first objection
applies to nearly every great work of literature
containing alleged immoralities ; to Rabelais,
the Bible, Homer, Ovid, Zola, Shakespeare, all
the dramatists of the Elizabethan and Restoration
periods, to the “Arabian Nights,” to Fielding,
to Smollett, and in fact to almost everybody
that has produced a great work of imaginative
art. Allow this objection, and literature
itself must be suppressed. The second and
third objections apply almost to every
medical work that can be mentioned, but it is
noteworthy that the most secret medical items —
though objected to when conveyed to the public
mind in a pamphlet the authorship of which >s
avowed —can be insinuated by any medical quabk
per medium of an advertisement in the columns
of a newspaper without let or hindrance. Indeed,
objections of a similar character can be urged
against the books in the Public Library, the statues
in the Sydney Domain, or the pictures in the Art
Gallery. The impurity is too often in the mind of
the individual who gazes Upon them, not in the
works of art themselves. Because some low-
minded “ purist” or impure policeman perceives a
libidinous suggestion in Canova’s Boxers, are the
great mass of the people to be deprived of all
aesthetic culture ? Not that The Bulletin
would approve the promiscuous dissemination of
books or pamphlets conveying semi-scientific in-
formation to ignorant or uneducated people who
cannot properly understand such matter any more
than it would approve of the spectacle of the gross-
minded brute who gloats pruriently over the
Venus de Medici. But the uncultured and men-
tally degraded must rise to the elevation attained
by the refined, the latter must not descend to the
intellectually insolvent level of those who see an
indecent suggestion in a brick-bat, or a hint of
Gomorrah in a pile of hardware. And if the law
intends to exercise its censorship over the dubious
pamphlet, the medical treatise, or the dubious
romance, let it, we say, be at least fifty thousand
times more ready to extend the mantle of its juris-
diction to cover the blood-curdling advertisement
which can be inserted by the illegally-practising
Criminal quack for sixpence in a daily paper;
Should this regime of expurgated print be estab-
lished let the censorship be wielded by an educated
and cultured expert, and not by the partially-
educated attorney, the police-court-specialist
stipendiary, or the coarse-grained and tod often
absolutely ignorant policeman. When such a
censorship is operative we shall gladly endorse
its decisions, but the present illogical system only
inspires derision and contempt. As matters stand,
the keys of St. Peter have been stolen by Constable
O’Hooligan, and the pleasures or terrors of
the heaven or hell of literary fame are dis-
pensed by Rhadamantmus Q’Flaherty with all
the partial blindness of Fortune suffering from
cataract. The founts of justice are themselves
occasionally polluted, and there may be more
baseness in the leer of a judicial official at
some pretty female witness than all the plain-
spoken coarseness of a Smollett and the insinuated
wantonness of a Daudet. To prohibit a book,
avowedly and scientifically dealing with a question
of sexual philosophy, simply because, like any
medical treatise, it is hardly the thing to read to
a class of young ladies in a Sunday school, is only
the official method of writing down oneself a
number nineteen-sized Dogberry.
—♦
Parkes versus Napoleon.
On the eve of Premier Parkes’ departure on his
last remarkable tour abroad—in the course of which
the Beauteous Terrorist platonically communed fer
a whole night with his poetical ideal, Stella, on a
snow-clad peak “ ten thousand feet above the sea,
love ” —he was banqueted by his admirers and
creditors. Mounting an uncommonly”i’ ’orse, he
declared that the glory of the First Natoleon
would be as the glimmer of a farthing rushlight
to the dazzling brilliancy of a 2000 candle-power
electric arc-lamp compared with the fame which
lie would achieve during the next ten years were
the Almighty pleased to spare his life so long.
The one great achievement which was to
surpass in historic grandeur the deeds of
Napoleon was the passing of a measure
for the wholesale resumption of property
in Sydney, with a view to the demolition of pesti-
lential rookeries, to the formation of wide streets,
differing in shape from the present dog’s hind-
leg pattern, and, generally, to make Sydney the
healthiest and most beautiful city in the world.
There is nothing original in the idea, as it has
been applied on an extensive scale, and with cor-
responding advantage, in London and Paris, but
assuming that the mammoth mind of Parkes
was the first to conceive it, let us see how he
proceeds to apply it and to wipe the name of
Napoleon from the pages of history. Despite
the cranky caricatures known as Barnet’s carv-
ings, which disgrace “colonial” taste and dis-
figure the Pitt-street frontage of the Sydney
General Post-office, it may be said that it is one
of the handsomest buildings in Australia. But to
show the facade off to advantage it is necessary that
there should be a wide street formed on the
northern side of it. The strip of land owned by
the Government is too narrow for the purpose.
Here was a grand opportunity for Parkes to
apply the principle which was to gain for him
such world-wide distinction, but the God of Mam
mon shook his fist at him and he succumbed. The
other day he asked Parliament to approve of a
proposal to accept from the astute absentee mil-
lionaire, Thomas Holt, and the wealthy Peßkinb
family a few feet of land running through from
Pitt to George-streets, so as to make a street 70
feet wide. In consideration therefor the Govern
ment proposed to give the present lessees compen
sation to the amount of £15,000, and Holt and the
Perkinses a new frontage of 355 feet—a front-
age which would certainly be more valuable
than any other in the city. Now reasonable calcu-
lation shows that this would represent a pre-
sent to Holt and Perkins of between £150,000
and £200,000. Mr. Dibbs proposed that the
Government should resume the properties, form a
street 100 feet wide, and sell the remainder of the
land. He quoted calculations proving that the
owners of the property would not lose a- cent, and
that the Government would gain nothing more
than a street such as is wanted. Parkes threat-
ened that he would resign if the House agreed to
the amendment, and insisted on effect being given
to the Government plan, on the ground that he
would be no party to ruthlessly violating the rights
of Property. Mr. Dibbs was compelled to with-
draw his motion. Thus the disgrace to Sydney
of the existing dilapidation and dirt on the
northern side of the Post-office is to be continued
and Parkes’ magnificent boast fizzles away—as
did the champagne which no doubt prompted it.
“ Great" English Papers!
Premier Parkes does not like what he calls the
inconvenient “ opportunism ” of the papers that
occasionally, in spasms of contrition, make ad-
verse comments on his three-legged and strabis-
mussed policy, and he never loses an opportunity
of “sitting” on the prints by virtue of whose
shameless partisanship he rules wherever they so
offend. In his recent Bathurst speech he casti-


gated in his own pitiful way what he regarded as
a dereliction from the cause of Parkes and Good
Government. He said :
“ This kind of thing on the part of the public press is
very troublesome to the administration of affairs.
Nothing of the sort ever appears in the great prints of
the metropolis of England. Those great morning papers
are so well-informed —they are conducted uniformly by
men who understand the business and the theory of
Government as well as the men who are carrying on the
Government—that nothing of this kind ever appears in
the columns of these great papers.”
We have this “ greatness ” of English newspapers,
of English this, that, and the other, so persistently
crammed down our throats that we are beginning
to surfeit of the nauseous mess. Parkes knows
full well, and everybody else knows, who knows
anything about anything, that the cable is mani-
pulated by the London pressman, and if the cable
“lies ” the London pressman “lies.” Papers are
very much the same all the world over, and the
“great” English papers so persistently maundered
over by Parkes and his little sucking-pigs are as
corrupt and mercenary as any Australian prints.
In fact, there’s very little to choose between them ;
if anything the Australian Press is a little above
its London contemporary in honesty and out-
spokenness. • The “great ” English Times stooped
so low, not long since, as to publish and trade on a
forged letter for which it lacked the courage to
apologise; and the columns of many “great”
English papers absolutely reek with the most
villainous and lying attacks on Gladstone.
English journals, presumably of the brand desig-
nated by Parkes as “ great,” daily publish false-
hoods which at the hour of going to press are known
by their editors to be such, and they are contra-
dicted in the most shameless way in the next issue.
We have had the “ great ” English bogey flaunted
in our eyes too often. Hit the old sham
hard enough and it turns out to be nothing but a
turnip on a stick which borrows all its
horrors, not from the lighted candle stuck
in its hollow head, but from our own childish
imagination. “ Great ” actors, singers, statesmen,
nobles, lecturers, war-correspondents, and news
paper-thunderers visit our shores from England
too often for us long to remain in ignorance of their
real silly little natures, which they cleverly
enough hide for a time under a big frown or a
smile of vast dimensions. We discover the actor
to be a fraud ; the singer a worn-out music-hall
screecher who wouldn’t get a decent show in any
second-rate Australian town; the statesman a
simpering and disingenuous driveller like Car-
narvon ; the war-correspondent a fatuous and
bumptious dragoon like Forbes ; the newspaper-
thunderer a poor quill-compiler like G. A. Sala ;
and the “noble” Governor an empty-headed
humbug. And the ‘ 1 great ” newspaper is not such
a wand to conjure with in Australia, after all. The
mail service brings a file along witn it periodically,
and an honest perusal discloses the fact that they
are simply a gigantic Brummagem sham although
their name isn’t Parkes.
+
Temporal Power, and the Papacy.
The Pope has missed a splendid opportunity. He
fixes his hopes on the Temporal Power, and he
hasn’t the wit to see that it is also the Temporary
Power. Kings and Popes are brother leaguers,
but, unfortunately for the latter, they begin to
league with the princes of the earth at the wrong
time. The Papacy and the Monarchy are both
crumbling with age and decaying from dry-rot,
and their heads fall together from sheer inability to
stand upright alone. They are decayed “ shores ”
with nothing useful to lean against, and so they
fall on each other’s top, and there is an embrace
of crowns and mitres as the poor old daddocky
props feebly affect to buttress each other. But it
is absurd to imagine that because Popes blunder
and wander off the scent that therefore religion
is no longer a power to conjure with. The
Church of Rome itself presents some remarkable
incongruities of Socialistic opinion. In America
an anti-Pope has lifted his rebellious head and the
excommunicated priest, M‘Gia:NN, denounces the
Prince of the Vatican from the platform of
an Anti-Poverty League, and his fulminations
are quite as dreadful to the ears of the Pope
as arc those of the successor of St. Peter to the
ears of the still devout worshipers in the
faith that claims to be builded on a rock. And in
America the Pope and his agents simply sought to
do that which it is sought to do now in Ireland ;
and in the latter country the priesthood itself is
on the side of the rebels. Irishmen, just like
Americans, will refuse to take their political
opinions from Rome, especially when they see
that the power and spiritual authority of Rome is
now always exerted on the side of rank, wealth,
power, and temporal authority, no matter what
the religious aspect of that temporal authority
may be, and not as in the days of Pope Hilde-
brand or St. Bernard of Clairvaux, to smite the
oppressor, to defend the poor, and to humble the
arrogant amongst the sons of men. ' But the
course the Popes and the Bourbon Cardinals of
tc-day pursue will lead to their own destruction.
They are setting in motion a wheel which shall
grind their power to powder. Religion is so
tremendous a weapon if properly wielded in the
cause of the weak and defenceless ; it is so terrific
in its influence over the guilty and conscience-
stricken ; it appeals so directly both to the super-
stitious fears of the craven and the tender
emotions and human sensibilities of the
sympathetic and refined, that its power
for the good of humanity is simply in-
calculable. Not long ago, close upon the
M ‘Glynn secession from the Church of Rome,
when the American Catholics boldly told the
Pope that their religion and not their politics
were they willing to take at the hands of St.
Peter, some Church of England clergymen began
a vigorous anti-poverty and Christian-Socialist
crusade and inaugurated a splendid movement
which is daily gaining ground and doing
good in the crowded centres of England.
Only very recently Cardinal Gibbons in the
States declared himself in favour of the
Knights of Labour, and now Cardinal Manning
in his clear, lucid, incisive English justifies the
proletarian in his demand for bread. Cardinal
Manning is really a great prince of his church; a
man with a keen, searching, analytical intellect,
a courage that never shirks the full consequences
of a conviction, a beautiful sympathy with
humanity, and a gift of graceful utterance that
throws a charm as of romance over the cold con-
clusions of a remorseless logic. This is the man
who, were he at present Pope of Rome, might
take hold of the Socialistic movement and give it
a religious and emotional bent, and build up the
power of the hierarchy like a sea-wall of invulner-
able rock against the waves of time. But no !
The monk who rules Christendom beneath the
shadow of the Castle of Saint Angelo and
the Mo'e of Hadrian, like the dog in
the analogue, grasps at the shadow of power and
loses the reality. The denial to the multitude of
participation in the pleasures of this world, in the
name of religion, induces indifference to the
pleasures of the next which religion pretends to
assure to the faithful. The sceptical spirit of the
age is working downwards, like mercury, into the
very bones of society, because the poor see in the
attitude of the Church that the Deity is with
the wrong—if the wrong be strong enough.
“ God is also against us !” is the desperate cry of
the frenzied, who are goaded so far beyond eri-
durance that they would assail the very walls of
heaven, or hurl themselves in despair into the
gaping mouth of hell. The latest act of "the Pope
has diverted many of the pennies of Peter
into the coffers of the anti-poverty leagues of
America; and the Irishman, who dearly loves his
faith, is yet more of a fanatic than a lover in his
attachment to his country ! The Church might
use the religious instinct in man, and make of
Socialism a rock upon which to embastion its
power, which if it rules not in the heart rules not
at all. Like many other things human, it
has made a mistake. It has lost its last
chance! It has thrown the last die. The
Rubicon has been crossed, but the road leads
not back to Rome but downward to Avernus.
The political power of Rome, like the ass’s skin
in the fable, shrinks with each exercise of its
magic properties. The spiritual head of the his-
toric Church prefers to a dominion established in
millions of human hearts the temporal support of
a few crowned heads whose heads and whose
crowns are tottering on their shoulders. He puts
his trust in princes the day before the deluge, and
his downfall will be accompanied by the debris of
the falling thrones around him. Dynamite might
be exploded under water without harm to a single
human soul ; the Pope prefers to sit upon the
bomb.—R.l.P.
♦
Tlic Wail of flic “ Age.”
The Melbourne Age shows the cloven hoof of
Imperial sympathy and national indifference once
again. In its leader of 24th April the Tory wolf
in democratic clothing calmly and seriously advises
this young and progressive nation to go inside and
sit down whilst the halt and maimed bagmen of
Brummagem are arranging matters with Bung
Hi and Co. to their own mutual advancement and
the, lasting disadvantage of Australia. But this
is not the worst phase of its outpouring. As if it
had not sufficiently relieved an already overcharged
British gall-bag and gone back sufficiently on the
democratic principles it possessed before David
Syme became a landholder, this pompous organ of
cheap advertisements concludes its article with the
immortal effrontery of the following prophecy :
“But stopping the Governor’s salary, or sending Mr.
Dkakin to London with an ultimatum in his pocket,
would not help us out of the Chinese difficulty one bit.
On the contrary, it would intensify it ; for to separate
from the Umpire would be to invite the Mongolian hordes
to overrun us 'Without let or hindrance. This is one side
to the Chinese question which Mr. Purves and the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association will have to confront.”
Could political cowardice and treachery go
further? Let the corpulent organ of Chinese
cheap labour and foreign sympathy lend its capa-
cious ear, and listen to this : England has to
choose between Australia and China, and, on
account of the greater opportunities for com-
mercial exploitation and cozening which
occur in the land of the Sun, she has virtually
chosen the leper. Therefore, it only remains for
the Federated States of Australasia to give the
effete old nation whose record is made up of blood
and corruption her answer in the shape of a law
decreeing the total exclusion of the Mongol
plague. Let Australia do this and trust to that
spirit which had its inception behind the
Eureka Stockade in the days of yore, to
keep the yellow man out ; and, if needs be,
to drum the White Chinaman back to the land
whose crest is an open Bible reclining gracefully
on an empty rum-barrel with a bailiff and a hypo-
crite rampant in the background. The principles
of national freedom are slowly, but none the less
surely, moving ahead ; and the day has yet to
come when the Imperialist slave-drivers of Aus-
tralia can run this country either in the fetters of
Jingo abasement or the gyves of cheap labour
rings. To hear such sentiments from the lips
of the Age, and to know that what is the
matter with the Age proprietary and their staff is
that they are not native-born, is almost enough to
make one unreservedly swallow the whole pro-
gramme of the Australian Natives’ Association.
Sliirliing Elis Worli.
When the New South Wales Executive Council
met last week to decide the fate of three men
under sentence of death, Governor Carington
was absent. He was away from the colony (he
left it, mark you, after the men had been sen-
tenced by the Supreme Court) on a three weeks’
pleasure-trip to Norfolk Island, in a man-of-war,
and Sir Alfred Stephen took his place at the
head of the Executive table. Now, what
does it all mean? Lord Carington “at home”
was a Liberal M.P. So Jar as his lights and
class-interests allowed him, he was a believer in
the cardinal points of Liberal policy, and he asso-
ciated with men who understood the first prin-
ciples of Liberalism, and who endeavoured to apply
them, at all events to some extent. Then he
came to New South Wales and hanged four boys,
to whom the law had denied a fair trial—and who
were killed by society under circumstances which
would have made civilised Europe shudder had
civilised Europe taken any interest in our paltry
affairs. Theotherdaythelawwantedhis Excellency
to officially pull the rope again, and Governor Car-
ington suddenly went away —away to the utter-
most extremity of the territory —took, it hap-
pened, the only step, except resignation,
that he might possibly take which would
involve his evading his great and per-
sonal responsibility, and leaves a representative
of old-time Van Dieman’s Land to administer
the law in his stead. Did he go to Nor-
folk Island to escape the spirit of old Van Die-
man’s Land and Botany Bay ? There are volumes
of history in this. Governor Carington might as
well have paid his visit to the island of antique
horror at any other time as now. Does he run
away to avoid bringing his English Liberalism
into contact with the spirit of the savage laws of
the colony he is said to govern ? The responsi-
bility of deliberately discussing the proposed
effacement of a human being is the most awful which
can devolve on any man in whatever station. The
power to say whether or not it is meet that a
citizen shall die is the highest trust committed to
the keeping of the representative of the monarch
who sits in state at the other end of the earth,
and it is a trust no part of which Governor
Carington or any other man to whom it may be
committed can delegate except under pressure of
the direst necessity without committing a most
shameful breach of the confidence reposed in him
by his Sovereign. And yet Governor Carington
airily goes off on a water-party after un-
ceremoniously flipping his trust over the
Executive table to the same old Sir
Alfred Stephen who, sixty years ago, was
Attorney-General of Y. D. Land —well knowing
as he does so the tremendous anil unanswered
allegations made against this tottering and worn-
out official in connection with the Stanley testi-
monial fund ! If the Governor does not person-
ally exercise every part of the only prerogative
really left to the Crown, what is the use of
having a Governor at all ? This prerogative is the
only remaining shred of power officially held by a
colonial Governor, and here Governor Carington
shirks the occasion to use it. But we never knew
him to shirk attendance at a big race-meeting.
Judge limes and “ The Philosophy ot Suicide.”
The Bulletin has, since its leader in last week’s
issue on the “ Philosophy of Suicide,” noticed
that the report of Judge Innes’ action in refer,
ence to the case cited in the article varies con-
siderably in one of the morning papers from that
published in another morning and one evening
daily. And as the report of the case as stated by
The Bulletin is very much against his Honor,
we think that it is only fair to him to quote
the other. From the second report, which appears
in an ampler form in a Goulburn paper, it ap-
pears that Judge Innes expressed his deep
regret that such a case should have been sent
before him, and, after addressing a few kind
words to the would-be suicide, finally sentenced
him to three months’ imprisonment, to merge into
his present sentence, so that, in reality, no addi-
tional punishment was inflicted. Under these
circumstances, The Bulletin owes an apology
to J udge Innes for several of its strictures on the
case in question and now heartily and spontaneously
tenders the same. But its accusations, though
evidently not applicable to Sir George Innes, do
apply to almost every individual Judge
throughout Australia, and will continue to apply
so long as the barbarous and illogical practice of
sending citizens to gaol for attempted suicide re-
mains in force. Judge Innes, it would appear from
his reported public utterances, is opposed to this
custom, but, in place of resolutely denouncing it,
he effected a compromise between a brutal prece-
dent and his own feelings of humanity by inflict-
ing a sentence which was, in fact, inoperative.
We trust that, should another such case come
before His Honor, he will enter a more decided
protest by refusing to impose even an imaginary
penalty for an act which, as a punishable crime,
exists only in the mouldy pages of ancient super-
stition.
*
A powerful London paper says that the old fami-
lies that take precedence in the House of Peers are
dying out of sheer imbecility, and therefore the
Chamber is recruited with glorified money-lender j
and bloated tradesmen, whose wealth is too great
for them to bear existence as plain “ misters,” or
whose antecedents are so shady that they are
glad to hide themselves under new titles. But a
stronger indictment of hereditary legislation can
be framed with better material than this. The
orginal Lords Chelmsford, Cairns, and St.
Leonards were lawyers of talent and energy, who
fairly worked their way to eminence. And those
three menhave respectively beq ueatlied to the House
of Peers the nincompoop “Gumboil,” the de-
bauched hero of an indecent assault case, and the
military muddler of the Zulu war. If brains came
from the paternal side it would be possible
to maintain a decent average of intellect among
the peers though the falseness of their hereditary
privileges were in nowise lessened. But the male
nobleman transmits nothing," generally speaking,
save his form and face (which Tennyson called
“ foolish ’ before he became a Baron himself), and
responsibility for an offspring’s brain-power seems to
rest mainly with the mother. In point of fact, the
“swells’ who marry clever burlesque actresses
are really improving their order, but it must be a
very full-flavoured Tory toady who would main-
tain that the Lotties and the Totties are the
heaven-ordained mothers of England's laws. For
the House of Peers is heaven-ordained—or
nothing. If all the voters (not to say
people) of Great Brifain were polled on
the question of maintaining that antique in-
stitution in its integrity, we fancy the “noes”
would have it by a bloated majority. And if Her
Gracious Majesty were voted for in the same way
not even the Grace of God would prevent her
from losing her seat. Think well over this! The
free-born Briton, independent voter, Ac., is never
iskedif he wishes to dispense with the valuable
services of an old lady who waggles her sceptre
over every quarter of the globe. He has actually
no liberty of movement as relating to a queen or
king ; for if he inadvertently got at all close to the
royal person he would be carted off to prison.
Pastor Jefferis is a lame old moralist. He
says:—
“ Appeal is to be made to the Legislature to compel the
closing of shops after a certain hour in the evening. No
one has a greater jealousy of undue Governmental inter-
ference with individual liberty than I have; but some
grievous social ills can be abated only by the public will
expressing itself in law. Regarding this, and all other
popular movements about which opinion differs, let us
say reverently, ‘ God speed the right.’ ”
Now there is no occasion to say anything of the
sort, reverently or otherwise. Some people who
live by that sort of thing are always willing to
throw everything on to the shoulders of Provi-
dence. Political economists of the modern school
throw it on to the shoulders of the State. Henry
George says that with the complexity of the
growth of civilisation so must government more
and more assume functions hitherto untried by
it, and George, not Jeffeius, is right. If the
individual is to do everything for himself, let us
return to a state of warlike barbarism; if the
State, let us continue in our march towards
Socialism; but, in the name of the God of consis-
tency, do not let us tolerate the illogicalness of
compromise that it suits the Jefferibes and their
followers (with the one eye on the master-drapers
in the front seats and the other eye on the drapers’
assistants in the back seats) to battle for !
The Victorian Government has told a lie and
jeopardised its immortal soul for the sake of the
Chow. It became necessary for Gillies and Co.
to say something to the Chow, somehow, in the
way of an intimation that he was a nasty, un-
desirable animal, and not to be littered down any
more in these parts. The news might have been
broken in a S3unpathetic whisper, by quietly
hanging a Chinaman for nothing in particular
and posting his embalmed body to the Emperor,
at Pekin. Or the Victorian Government could have
passed a Bill providing for the arrest of all lepers
on the ‘ ‘ insulting beh aviour ” charge, no leper to be
arrested oftener than twice a day, and the penalty
not to exceed £lO. But, instead of facing the in-
evitable like practical statesmen, Gillies and his
friends rushed Governor Loch into signing a pig-
headed proclamation to the effect that all Chinese
ports are infected with some vague complaint not
specified, and that “ all vessels bringing Chinese
passengers to any port in Victoria be detained by
the health officer of such port until such vessels
and passengers be severally released by the said
officer.” In plain Eng’nh, this is a lying reason
for objecting to the Celestial invasion, and Loch
naturally kicked against putting his signature at
the bottom of such a miserably conceived docu-
ment. It is a confession of weakness which in-
vites the Chinese Government to show fight, and
places Victoria in an untenable position. The
great Chinese Question cannot be kept in quaran-
tine by any said officer.
Goschen’s revise of the Freetrade tariff in England
levies advanced duties upon high-class imported
wines, and leaves untouched the excise on English-
made beer. Parkes’ revise of the N.S.W. tariff
increases the excise duty on N.S. Wales-made
beer, and leaves untouched imported high-class
wines. We have long wanted to swap Sir Hen hy
for somebody, and now we think we have a chance,
if the English public think the deal unequal we
will throw in Dan O’Connor, Bgrdett Smith
the Hon. Irancis Abigail, and two copies of
Douglas Sladen’s new Australian slang dic-
tionary. Anyway, we want to swap Paiikes.
Old Ben Richards, of Riverstone (N. S. W.),
slaughters 500 bullocks a week for the Sydney
market. Fifty years ago Ben, who, by the way,
is an Australian native, opened a butcher’s shop at
Richmond, and sold, say, 10 sheep a week. From
that time he decided to make money, and the
only thing that now troubles him is the exact
amount he is worth in hundreds-of-thousands. He
is one of the “squarest ” natives worshipping the
Southern Cross ; he employs a township; can ride
a buckjumper, and will yard a mob of wild cattle
with the best bushman on his numerous stations.
The following letter by “Enigma,” which
we reprint from a Queensland paper, puts the case
for Social Democracy very fairly :
“ Premier Griffith, in his manifesto, goes out of his
way to make a vague assertion about the union of labour
and capital. This man, who hesitates about dipping his
hand into the coffer of the land robber, to the extent even
of Id. in the £, talks lightly of introducing a reform that
will shake modern society from base to apex ; a reform
before which the revolutions of Robespierre, of Washing'
ton, and of Cromwell will pale and look diminutive!
For I say it to the men of Charters Towers, and to whom
else shall read my words, that upon our industry is
raised our social system ; that from the injustice of the
former is begotten the rottenness of the latter ; and that
neither Imperialist Griffith nor Capitalist MTlwraith
dare lay one wet finger on the rights of private
enterprise, on the right of the peaceful capitalist to
profit by cut-throat competition. I have a faint hope that
some few earnest men even on Charters Towers will echo
back my words. I cannot believe that, among the toiling
thousands of the North, there are not some who In-
stinctively acknowledge and prayerfully reverence the
grand truths which shine out from the pages of Karl Marx
and Lassalle, and who do not recognise the Heaven-sent
message contained in the burning lines of William Morris.
Land-nationalisers will probably come forward here, and
curse me with all due solemnity. They will shake “Pro-
gress and Poverty” and “Social Problems,” and many
other bibles in my face. I can’t help the nationalisers.
If they tell me that private property in the uses and in the
inventions which belong to aggregate society, is well and
good, and private property in land, belonging equally to
aggregate society, is harmful and iniquitous, then, Mr.
Editor, I can only pity the unconscious hypocrisy which
sullies so grand a movement as that which Henry George
has inaugurated. The miners of Queensland are expected
to commiserate this alleged man, who, by the aid of the
seven devils incarnate of cut-throat competition, holds in
his hand as he sits on the Board of Directors in
London, the happiness of the men who arc mock-
ingly informed by mouthing idiots at the hustings
that they and they only rule the southern land. Those
journals professing their belief in the land reform will
very justly tie this agent and chief mover in the
G.M. Co. up to the triangles of public opinion. Very
justly, I say, but most inconsistently, till they proclaim in
tones of thunder all the world over that the State alone will
be the employer, that social anarchy has long enough op-
pressed mankind like a horrid nightmare. I appeal to a
few men here in our own town to form some kind of
arrangement by which the glorious truths of the new
social order may be disseminated, for there are, I know, a
small number who are not utterly sunk in lethargy. That
wages will come down in Charters Towers is a compara-
tively small matter to those who consider that every hour
of their lives some human creature like themselves is
passing out of life for the want of bread. But even the
miners will have to do something towards keeping the
wolf from the door within a very short time. And let there
be no mistake about it, my friends ! The capitalist is, in
spite even of himself and independently of his every act,
your natural enemy. Capital is a grand and beneficent
institution, and the man who deniis this writes himself
down as an ass. But (be men who sit on Boards, who
frequent produce-exchanges, who promote land-grant
railways ct hoc genus oni'U these men are the social
wo'ves who are enabltd by the conditions of our anarchic
social system to grab the power which in their hands
becomes an instrument of destruction and a check to pro-
gress, instead of being what all true Socialists wish to
make it—a beneficent help to production in the hands of
organised society, and a factor in the progress of the
human race towards its final destination ; Complete hap-
piness to all.”
The Duck Squeaks—A Case of Cruelty.
“ Melbourne, Saturday .—Hawkers are selling live
ducks in the streets of Melbourne. They shake them
and make them squeak to show purchasers they are
not dead. —Daily Paper, April 28.
The duck squeaks—
And down comes the Law with its truncheons
and irons at sound of the wild bird’s half-
audible cry,
And up go the eyes of Society’s holy ones, gazing
aghast at the blue-rolling sky,
And wond’ring for what are the thunders created
if merciless villains like these must not die !
The duck squeaks—
Pale women are toiling and children are starving
and tears are about us by day and by night,
But Society’s holy ones glossily show themselves,
perkily pose themselves, sucking delight
h rom all that is fair in the wide world around
them, and shielding their eyes from the ter-
rible sight !
The duck squeaks—
Of squalor of hovels whose rack-renting land-
lords pursue their weak prey, as the vultures
the lambs—
I ursue them, and grasp them, and tear them,
and bleed them in heaps, writhing young
with their dams—
And then march to church in tall hats upon Sun-
days, and shed a small share of the spoil as an
alms !
The duck squeaks—
Ev’ry day, ev’ry night men are torn, women
starved, and young children are stunted and
broken in growth,
By Capital, sitting on Faiths and on Statecrafts,
and silence supreme holds the thick litis of
both,
And none asks Justice to seize the transgressors,
and bind them to Pity’s commandments by
oath!
But the duck squeaks—
And down comes the Law with its truncheons and
irons at sound of the wild bird’s half-audible
cry,
And up go the eyes of Society’s holy ones, gazing
aghast at the blue-rolling sky,
And wond’ring for what are the thunders created,
if merciless villains like these must not die !


History of Botany Bay.
If the New South Wales Corps left any-
one whatever behind to represent it, this was
surely the time to find its representatives in
full activity. Unless the leopard had changed
its spots altogether, this was certainly the
set of circumstances calculated to bring them
out in their true colours. The atmosphere
of moral filth which we have rather hinted
at than described, was the native air of what
was now the aristocratic element in the
colony. It might indeed be alleged that
their fine barbaric spirit had been veneered
over by wealth by this time, and that they
had settled down to honest courses and a
bourgeois virtue. But the characteristics of
the Corps were too deeply ingrained for that,
and under favourable circumstances like the
present they were brought out as naturally
as heat brings out vermin. Under such
extraordinarily promising conditions the
Pure Merinos felt it incumbent on them-
selves to show their mettle and do justice
to their training.
m «
While Governor Brisbane was following
the stars in their courses in his eyrie at
Parramatta —the curious reader may yet see
the corner-stone of his observatory beside
Old Government House there—the Pure
Merinos had everything their own way.
While this Governor took charge of the solar
system, his subordinates had full control
over that insignificant portion of our own
planet nominally committed to his care.
The active concerns of government passed
from his hands to those of his officials, and
as Mr. Commissioner Bigge had censured
Macquarie for his efforts to redeem the con-
victs from their hopeless condition, Brisbane
was determined not to fall into the same
blunder. Consequently the Pure Merinos
arranged these matters after their own plans,
and the last state of the unhappy convict
became worse than the first. But what was
much more to the purpose for these people,
the Governor no longer endeavoured to
regulate the trading concerns of the settle-
ment as his predecessor had done, and the
old iniquitous system of monopoly and
spoliation began again as actively as ever.
The Pure Merinos obtained command of the
market, using the ill-gotten wealth they had
amassed for the purpose, and the condition of
things was soon as bad as it had ever been
under the sailor-governors.
* * *
Trading operations were carried on under
a system of exchange. The settler who sent
a consignment of wheat to the King’s Store
at Sydney obtained a receipt from the com-
missariat officer in charge. This receipt he
passed on to the merchant, in exchange for
rum and other necessaries of life —such as
clothing, provisions, and the like. The mer-
chants were principally the Pure Merinos ;
and they, true to the traditions of their
order, charged most exorbitant rates for the
accommodation they thus gave the poorer
settlers. The consequence was that these,
as a class, plunged deeply into debt. It is
said that nine-tenths of the population were
hopelessly involved in this way during the
rule of Sir Thomas Brisbane. During Mac-
quarie’s time they were, to some extent,
protected against any undue use being made
by their creditors of the great power thus
gained. As the goods turned into the store
were sold, these creditors were paid in whole
or in part, and so the process went on. But
with the new Governor the harpies saw their
chance, and took it. Brisbane did not in-
terfere in such matters, and in 1822 an order
was issued in his name by the officials,
stating that in future all grain should be
supplied to the store by tender, and that no
produce would be received at any one time
beyond the amount required for the next ensu-
ing quarter. This step was taken concurrently
with another that worked exactly in the
same direction. This was to change the
circulating medium suddenly from colonial
currency to sterling coin. This notable
project at once raised the pound sterling 25
per cent, above the pound currency—for up
to that time the medium of exchange in the
colony was made up in motley fashion from
English coins, Spanish dollars, moidores,
and,pieces of eight.
* # *
The devilish ingenuity that devised this
double-handled weapon soon put it to active
use. Two results at once accrued—the
King’s Store as a market for the settlers’
produce was suddenly closed, and the money
of the settlement was depreciated in value.
The natural effect followed. There was a
rush of settlers with grain to the temporary
market opened for the collection of the
quarter’s supplies, and at the same moment
a demand from the creditors for the settle-
ment of outstanding accounts. The settler
found himself in this position. Any money he
held was reduced in value 25 per cent, by the
change of currency, and the Commissariat
receipts which he usually gave as securities
for his debts were about to be withheld
from issue. They were ready to sell at any
price to save themselves from ruin ; but
the King’s Store was only prepared to buy
three months’ supply. They, therefore,
competed to undersell each other, to get the
benefit of the market while it was open, and
wheat, which had rated at from 7s. 6d. to 10s.
per bushel, was eagerly offered at 3s. 9d.
currency The traders profited by this fall
in price o make their claims, and the
amount of their debts was paid six-fold in
the value of the produce they received.
This sudden fall in prices gave rise to an
impression that grain was superabundant in
the settlement, and that over-cultivation had
produced a supply in excess of the wants of
the population. Unrestrained waste and
profusion became the order of the day.
Produce was valued at little or nothing.
Provisions were wasted. And reckless im-
providence soon cleared the way for the mis-
take to show itself. Before the season was
over the supply of grain was exhausted.
Famine began to menace the community,
and the prices rose to 245. per bushel.
Distress and ruin threatened the agricultural
and city population alike. And still the
Governor in his eyrie at Parramatta com-
placently surveyed the stars.
* * *
It would be almost impossible to credit
the' villainy of persons who could prompt
the framing of these regulations in their
own selfish interest did we not know some-
thing of their history. Studied malignity
marked their action in planning this diabo-
lical plot against a whole community, and
the way they set to work to take unsparing
advantage of that plot’s success. The long
array of debts contracted by the settlers
was suddenly produced. Peremptory de-
mands for payment were made by these
Shylocks in the face of the prevailing dis-
tress. Time was refused, an immediate
settlement insisted upon, and in default the
pound of flesh was mercilessly exacted.
Macquarie’s little grants of land were swal-
lowed up wholesale. The poor rewards of
industry fell into the insatiable maws of
these ruffianly usurers. Farms were seized
for one-fourth of their value. The cost of
goods exchanged in advance against Com-
missariat receipts over long periods of years
was calculated at, for
the lowest, 100 per
cent, above their value;
the difference between
sterling and currency
was availed of to the
utmost; and with vul-
pine craft in a dozen
tortuous ways with
which the usurer and
the money-changer are
cunningly familiar, the
settlers were exploited
and preyed upon by the
merchant class, their
little holdings for-
feited, and the en-
lightened experiment
of Macquarie stultified
and blasted before it
had time to take defi-
nite shape.
■x- * *
That this plot had
been craftily schemed
by the Pure Merinos
for some time is proved
by the fact that they
persuaded Mr. Com-
missioner Bigge to
recommend the tender
system in his report.
It will be remembered
that the King’s Store
was opened to the
settlers by Bligh and Macquarie to snatch
them out of the clutches of the officers of
the New South Wales Corps. It was the
first object of these people to get back their
power when the tide turned, and what they
were no longer able to do by force or rebel-
lion they now did by cunning and craft.
While Brisbane was star-gazing, they put
Bigge’s recommendation into effect. But
they added a little feature of their own.
That fatuous person had some faint glimmer
of intelligence or honesty of purpose, or
some other valuable abstract virtue of the
kind; and, moreover, he had no interest in
being an absolute miscreant. When he re-
commended the tender system, therefore, he
added that as much superfluous grain as
possible should be bought at all times, as
a provision against droughts and floods.
Had this been done the market would have
been kept open to the settlers. But this
was not what the Pure Merinos wanted. So
they suppressed and altered that part of the
recommendation, and shut the market prac-
tically altogether. The conduct of the persons
who deliberately reversed the Commis-
sioner’s recommendations is self-condemna-
tory. It proves what one would willingly
be reluctant in believing that creatures
could exist of such depravity as these, to
plot against the welfare of a whole com-
munity in their own selfish interests, and
prostitute official power to such an end. But
this was in Botany Bay.
* s *
There was no degradation so deep that
these wretches could not find a deeper
depth. One fact will speak more for the
real character of the men than whole pages
of description. The proceedings we have
detailed plunged the settlement into famine
and distress. People wanted food. There was
grain locked up in the warehouses of these
cold-blooded tyrants, but the victims were too
poor to buy that. When the distress was at
its height a vessel was sent to Batavia for
rice, wheat, and other supplies for the
relief of the suffering people. This was
done by order of the Governor, whose
eyes had now been opened to his own
culpable negligence by the misery he
saw around him. When the ship returned
to Sydney with its precious freight, so
anxiously expected, the Pure Merinos saw
that the destitution out of which they were
making profit as carrion-birds fatten on a
carcase was about to be relieved. So they
laid another plot, and it would be hard to
believe that Mr. John Macarthur had
nothing to do with this, for he was back in
the colony long before this time. It was
one of the privileges of the East India Com-
pany that no vessel should carry tea out of
Indian waters without the license of the
Directors ; and the Company’s charter em-
powered them to seize any vessel so trans-
gressing as a lawful prize. Now, the relief
ship from Batavia carried a small packet of
lOlbs. of tea, a present to a Government
officer in Sydney. The Pure Merinos in-
formed the captain of a ship-of-war then in
port of this heinous crime. It might be
thought that the charter of the great East
India Company was not intended to refer to
a present of lOlbs. of tea. But the result of
the criminal and unpatriotic act of the Pure
Merinos was that the relief vessel, with all
its anxiously-expected supplies of food for
a starving people, was forcibly seized and
carried off by the man-of-war in defiance of
the Governor, and of the entreaties of the
famishing population who looked hopelessly
and helplessly on. The warship with its
prey swept down the harbour and through
the Heads out to sea. The relief-vessel was
sold as a prize in an Indian port. And the
Pure Merinos were saved.
* * *
These things appear to have galvanized
the Governor into something like activity at
last. The misery and privation of the
people around him opened his eyes to the
results of his negligence and infidelity to
duty. He made enquiries into matters
generally, and was not slow to find out that
the conflict between the Pure Merinos
and the Emancipists lay at the base
of all the distress that had accrued. He
COURTSHIP AT THE FAOIDRT.
found himself unpopular with the masses,
because they looked on him as the passive
instrument of the officials. And he was not
long in finding out, also, that these same
men condemned the very measures they had
themselves devised and carried out. They
followed their old custom, too, in slandering
him to the authorities at home. Probably
this fact had something to do with his con-
duct when he began to take an active in-
terest in affairs. One of his first acts was to
take up the cause of the Emancipists, and
during the last year of his government he
began to encourage the more wealthy mem-
bers of this class. He even went so far as to
agree to accept a banquet at the hands of the
leading Emancipists This unheard-of atro-
city was a challenge to the Pure Merinos.
It brought out one of their best efforts.
Of course, Mr. John Macarthur had a hand
in this villainy. Wherever in the early his-
tory of Botany Bay we come across anything
particularly disgusting we may confidently
look for this good man’s name. The invita-
tion to the dinner of the Emancipists was
given, and duly accepted by the Governor.
The Pure Merinos had also prepared their
little banquet, and Brisbane, being un-
willing to accept both invitations, suggested
that six of the leading Emancipists
might be invited as representatives to the
official demonstration. The committee re-
fused this compromise ; their finer feelings
and that nice sense of social distinction
which were so peculiarly their own rebelled
against this affront. So the Governor an-
nounced that no further preparations might
be made for his company, and a few even-
ings later attended the Emancipists’ banquet
at Nash’s Hotel, Parramatta. Addresses
were presented by the people, who recognised
that Brisbane’s errors were those of negli-
gence rather than of ill intent. Then the
Pure Merinos sailed in. Dr. Lang tells how on
returning from one of his many trips to Eng-
land, Mr. John Macarthur showed him a copy
of a document which that Botany Bay Machia-
velli had forwarded to Earl Bathurst. It
was a list of the names of those who had
attended the Brisbane banquet, with the
causes of their transportation set out at full
length, their career in the chain-gang and
under the lash, and the growth of their
prosperity subsequently—all from the Mac-
arthur point of view. “ I could not help
regarding with a strong feeling of repro-
bation,” says Lang, “ the superlatively evil
spirit which this precious document evinced,
while at the same time I could not help
admiring the consummate artifice with which
it was concocted.” But it must be remem
bered that its author was Macarthur, and he
had given himself plenty of practice. Lang
says in another place that he boasted to him
of having procured the recall of every
Governor up to Macquarie. His tactics in
this instance may be compared with the
anonymous newspaper episode in the case of
Governor Bligh.
The annual conference of the Australian
Natives’ Association comes off in Melbourne on
the 25th inst., and much trouble promises to
ensue. Already the Fitzroy branch has solemnly
cursed those young men who declined to drink to
Her Gracious at a recefat banquet, while Argus
correspondents are predicting the Association’s
early doom “ if separation from England is made
one of the planks in its platform. ” Under these
distressing circumstances it is to be feared that
half the conference will howl “ God Save the
Queen ” till the perspiration pours from every hole
in its skin, while the other half sniffs disdain and
breathes a spirit of “Disloyalty.” The 25th will
show what stuff the A.N.A. is made of.
Dear Bulletin, —While admitting with
you that M‘llwraith phrases the aspirations of a
National party, the question to-day among the
Protectionist majority in Queensland is, “Is
MTlwraith sound?” or is it “sound and fury,
signifying nothing ?” He says he has been a Pro-
tectionist all his life, but what’s the odds what he
thinks, if he doesn’t act so ? The squatter party
are opposed to increased tariffs, and he, it is said,
represents too much of that interest to be able to
be honest to the Democracy. One of the solitary
journalists who has been writing Protection on his
own hook when Freetrade and land-selling were in
their zenith, wrote to Sir Thomas the other day,
and offerer l to support him if he would speak out
straight. He has never answered the letter yet,
and be was at his office when the letter was left
for him. Of course, I admit that it would be
better to have MTlwraith and the Republic than
Griffith and the Empire, no matter what the
former’s fiscal faith may be; and I quite cheer-
fully further admit that if MTlwraith is not sound
on Protection, Griffith, also, most assuredly is
not.—y ours, &c. ,' Queensland Eleotob.
When the Hens Began to Lay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas a breezy autumn morning
When the hens began to lay :
They had sounded notes of warning
All through the summer gay—
They had chuckled oft and loudly,
While Rooster, old and staid,
Sang his Jubilate proudly
O’er the eggs they hadn’t laid.
Ah ! a vain deceiver ever
Was the “ Spanish,” raven-plumed,
And you ne’er in life (no, never)
Saw such airs as she assumed
On the strength of having squatted
For an hour upon the ground—
How she grunted and gavotted
To the prize we never found !
The “ Dorkings ” and the “ Cochin ”
They were every bit as bad—
Always strutting, shrieking, watching
Near an empty nest, begad !
And how often has the “ Brahma ”
Gammoned Mary Ann to say :
“ Don’t, for Heaven’s sake ! alarm her,
For I think she’s on the lay ? ”
A cry which made our flesh creep
(Half a hiccup, half a howl)
Would come wailing from the wood-heap,
Where an ancient speckled fowl
Of “ breed unknown,” pretended
She laid dozens on the sticks ;
Though her daily troubles ended
In the English word for nix.
Oh! the bitter cup of sorrow —
We have drained it to the dregs,
Sadly waiting for the morrow
In the blighted hope of eggs ;
Of the lesson in vexation
To be learned by erring men
As they study for salvation
There is nothing beats a hen.
•
But now the birds’ mad Babel
Provokes but joy and mirth ;
For in egg-cups on our table
Are the tokens of their worth.
At sunset and at dawning
For their happiness we pray,
Since that breezy autumn morning
When the hens began to lay.
EDMUND FISHER
The Sectionalist.
Dedicated to the sectarian job-grubbers of the
“ religious ” secret societies.
(With Apologies to American Paper.)
Thou feeder on men’s passions—
Stay thy feast.
Thou breeder of Hate’s factions —
Falsehood’s priest.
Hast thou no word of love
For him who ’gainst thee strove,
When he extends the glove
Of peace?
What matters which the cause
That was right ?
Time shatters all man’s laws—
All man’s might.
Only the laws of truth,
Only the cause of truth,
That we espouse for truth
Is ever bright.
Then cease grim war to wage,
Truth to enslave ;
Break from thy party cage,
Be not a knave;
Else when thy bones are dust,
Thy name shall be as rust,
A blot on the good and just—
A worm in a grave.


eradicated by
141l 41 Kin^
»»utfs«on si,T*f -M: «*®i» "
•ton,
»»d ali chemists
Sundry Shows.
I,or °thr. ; \.. p 15
* tlT ®tlO!f tL S TSEATRB._j“ Fa,list ” P '
~B« .r:::::::::::::: ;;
' M »bic HA^.!!iffi n B Company... „
to be with Goliath in a
i;f ta at S Vt i ® °ver us as we view the new
B’yatandfioinf- . Gazed on from a
tS m . our L’^^Pt^t. tea-meeting hymn
Points fm. * s tuetie opinion give “Doro-
f.°i^" er d was sa hder combination of husky
ijj ls tian l an{ j ' '®r thrown in the face of a
a ® “Otter than in i music, fortunately, is a
>ancl rl h - 6 lan £uage, but it, also, is of
y/ l ’He that thp SlVe -.order of architecture, and
tW.nr-d!* heifer perished of is con-
B e i Cee dinslv T b ’ while the words to which
is J offence to c. I ? o i rnmon met re is set aggravate
l n «K»t teninf 0 !? a degree that the listener
! S te f. aS ted to envy the fate of the
ttji? }\es i n :1 The chief beauty of the
ha v Mich h unpretentious character, a
|i i 1 e °r witWi Wlt h the sausage of every-
m tail rim * b e sm g ed cat which has
%j 3 «i it whi ( .K V ® r b T a tram-car ; there is
ij ■/MPding or i 1S ' calculated to disorder the
aiHltV B Pervade,] excite the intellect,
tak. j, Public . the dregs of melancholy,
Poinf'd'BtinguiaPoJf 18 to say the populace as
Will anoint tv, * ro1 ? those who live at Potts
cte ulfc 'matel v "tnemsdves with attar of roses-
Wn. Most of ti *° s hove the author over a
Use fr!! ec from J l6 ?tory seems to have been
W a and wIJ! e 0p * e -i w h° had no further
awa!! 1 ! £ la, dly have paid to
ftfou 1 The sm / d Stephenson hadn’t
c i hich is offeredln r ti nSta m ? ’ is a damaged
w S and tv, 6 1 1° the public at an alarm-
w'Sitls i tl • ® chorus of unnaturally clean
"H K ever y third* !* ed short-frocks is a feature
r te writer falls back upon
toan\°r anything new. Also the
le or som ß V^v ls or dered by his father
"W oiittU l be never o °* b ? r horn fool to marry a
ffejM t° be alv h e fore is a literary horror
BSfhenftfedby Act of Parliament,
S e ] f 11 banl s a s down amid the ruins of his
,5 a Screa m like the following out of
K i{ 8 -
1 c°oaiI er much now ceased to be mine,
V,, n °t, if i i “ay thereto incline,
i i f j Woul d give what I lack,
li 1 tnow not u UId ’ receive it back,
has & never° W V 0r "'hen, or where,
. Victorious « yet "' as known to spare,
4 L, ett *e we2t r °n» his battle-field,
N*y n ® man wl 1 • B ' Wltb no heart to yield -”
Nl! that ls B ubject to attacks of such
smal lo Weeps the top of his
cWn, dby the ma ! ! Provocation, deserves to
lN ad The dis,J cbestra an d then sent home
h Jo ®4a Seco hd act * sed duke’s song at the open-
WeC f act th a Ll S a redeeming feature, but
tk, 400 the 16 con duet of the depressed
ow hess bet WB Un^ l ra mmatical song estab-
f,! en b }m and the daughter of
CV B >thv »' • ure ln modern opera—the
Kabed e °f Plot; v- P rac tically guiltless of any
4 slow P a » a c ß n ewe .d a s a whole, it may be
B fhL I. ect mn of solemn speech
%, f! s et t 'Charters M ac hed. It amounts to
tW Btri].;^ 0 the e. IT .„° an ounce of ramshackle
'iHdv* feature nf 6 ?/ dead melody, and the
ki W&P Would v fhe production is that
w ei , j: °h a b y sound a lot better if
h Tremark* half 80 had. With these
\^St e « PaSSOn *
ih!V' S? e deserv s^ e ®f n ess and beauty are
the part of Dorothy
{ t e > and her ls ’ lf .possible, better than
WKtkf al a l 0 i o y ous ness holds
'liju h-. s onl. s ,, , as . ehe waves her shining
RS»r e WS?'S ns part °f Stephenson’s
|£teuL;° Cl % of d n ack unspoiled by the un-
Wir °iui ’ ail d he» # U • ail d other hereditary
?S. \ e razor! is a ray of sunshine re-
H f Biiffi, an 'iy b;jj. ed -hog of literary com-
Sm ki! l, uder tht rd 13 another tllin g of
» \ show Pressure of hard luck,
Mr. lei * ba * y he is progressing
% 'used and Z dder, but he must be
The U hlic Cnri IQ derately sane part before
N^tbm^Tan'p l ? lake U P its mind about
% With n f on waB received on the
St flad** B cop e f hurst of applause, but lie
it his abilities, and was pro-
} dd!% mThieflv r ?' s l/ 9 v . er - The rest of the
fcMte tinted J CP J knight Aston Some
Wk { H i ,r °tbv stlck . s * as f ' n the effort
°% a %st-clapc to ? high rank among
lii ’ hid ig dis„ ‘ Orchestra fights against
kh\ h y *’ J obted ever y night.
hi fldney^company re-ap-
ofSatmlay after a long
■N{St a Pe desti? f - w hich they have been
I'iiki Co hiii Austrci- 111 the temple of Fame
hack-blocks. Their
a„ , Sydney Gaiety with
wW 'HiL'T of \V ai, s tralian production from
iw Janw er sphere Gr um° pe - r ’ wbo ’ alaH!
yJ’ and ; ' . The piece is filled with
nowL dlVlded hito three acts
08K ltl lfih~°Y !nerit hf re ln Particular, but it
tiIWJ WlLto th at , ere and there which pre*
Wt 1 ?®! of infamy which the
Af.3® asy Q ati oll _ 80 apt to attain on the
Vit A deifv p °ndernii U the . opening scene a
iij Aii M’aved sem 3 c °n v,c .ti much addicted
W r W^tl ei nafe nts in quite a heavy
Vkt)’lifted Msfluv,!. 8 house, and drink his
W'WsAhguWliieiY t , ®y> and finally shock him
frit 6r °Ut of kf a ttempt to bounce his
jif S iSS to & {»1” W- The large
© a!io n '! Wife in oJ, 1 purpose to the end,
V Re! Sc hemc r i de r r to force her to join
5 \)!d C k hack ’ but the funny convict
stamen al P ! hlm> In his early
MS’}! as h e hawm boy ’ and » as he
young and! * got some feelings
SU® a B >ce s T:f Kl beautiful, and conse-
N S ofht of 6 a nd >h r<;s I °, ve to l-ptire from a
said P^i ad B ?£ e ,a * ves . “•
r mhla'htßwPnian f a ln throwing the
taVvf !’ bicid-'hon, an j fi 1 ' a precipice confirms
Sc %ag»e,i * a t %ndish sinner, in
; °u a'‘],,,; a 'W'U)ill and ties down
WW>ly l h Motion 0 k a | ter which he sets
C - Up a) , and waits to see his
6 off d his remains scattered
\*» K i*WL ari< l an' 118 even t, however,
ke |m‘ s ed with Cto # r ’ ! ho might well
V>n C*h if he can’t act any
* Useful ...vday night, is sjiared
Uness - The one brilliant
feature in “Foiled,” however, is not the at-
tempted holocaust in Snaggs’ freehold property,
but the excellent acting of Mr. George Her-
bert, whose representation of the unctuous
low comedy convict who was once a spotless boy,
fills the three-act shriek with roars of
laughter. Without him we shudder to think
what the piece might be like. Mr. J. H. Rainford
rose to eminence for one single moment in the
first act, but for the rest of the evening he
was the old, conventional, tramping villain
who strikes astounding attitudes on two big feet,
and is perpetually demanding with an immense
dirty fist that some one shall retract injurious re-
flections cast upon the dingy object which he
terms his character. Mrs. E. Sidney and Miss
Marian Willis might.easily have been worse than
they were, but the gentleman who died in the
first act was providentially removed from a world
where he was fast becoming a nuisance. A scene
in a rocky gully by moonlight was a talented
specimen of artistic scene-shifting and deserved an
encore. Mr. Dan Barry himself did not take a
hand in the show, but stood about, the door with
his accustomed celerity and genius, and, provided
the saw-mill does not burst, the company promise
to have a successful season at the Gaiety.
•Af. *V- •&£.
•Jf W T T
Among the many infatuated beings who
attempt in various ways to wrench the milk of
applause from the horns of the human cow, about
the saddest of all is the theatrical amateur. Not
long ago a body of these deceived fanatics, living
in a township on the Murray, resolved to spread
the bones of their emaciated genius over “ Faust,”
and they went through that noble work of art in
a way which would have made Mephistopheles
suffer from a severe attack of surprise. The
manager of the bank took the title-role, and the
mild schoolmaster made a milk-and-watery fiend
with bow legs. Still they performed to the satis-
faction of the audience till the closing scene, where
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD AS “MEPHISTOPHELES”
Marguerite escapes, and the unreliable person
from below grabs Faust instead, and says
in bass, “ She is lost, but you are mi-i-i-ine !” and
then, as the pair disappeared down the trap, the
spectators became suddenly aware of an unearthly
riot in perdition below. Apparently, Mephisto-
pheles was barking his loudest, and Faust was
screaming to him to let go, and he didn’t let go
but went on worse than ever; and then, all of a
sudden, Faust and Mephistophefes escaped out of
the pit together with their tights in tatters, and
fled into the wings. It subsequently transpired
that the Town Clerk had forgotten to remove
the bulldogs which he kept under the stage,
and that Faust hadn’t been able to sup-
press them by bringing the overawing in-
fluence of the human eye to bear on them as
people are recommended to do when they meet a
tiger unexpectedly, the reason being that they
hadn’t waited to look at his eye but had charged
at once just as the tiger usually does, which ac-
counts for the circumstance that no man who has
fixed a tiger with his eye ever comes back to tell
how he did it. As a rule, it is better to fix a wild
animal by the tail.
-V- -V.
"TV "7V -TV TV *
Other Sydney shows stand very much
where they did. Those whom the gods love die
young, and consequently “ Bachelors,” which
deserved to grow old and hoary, is to die an un-
natural death on Friday in order to clear the
track of popular applause for the “ School for
Scandal.” The beautiful Rignold booms along
with “Faust” at Her Majesty’s; and “Venus
and Adonis,” after a prosperous season, in the
course of which almost all Sydney has tried in
vain to get at the meaning of its blind and bottom-
less incomprehensibleness, is shortly to be suc-
ceeded at the Royal Standard by a new
burlesque. On Friday night Mr. Frank Smith,
whose benevolence goes on for ever, gives
a benefit in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital. The
ebony sinners at the Alhambra are now nearly at
the end of their third year, and seem likely to
proceed for 30 years more. The Fisk J übil ee Singers
have moved their vocal show to the Y.M.C.A.
Hall, where their hosannah will rise till Friday
next. The Fakir of Qolu and the lady who is
subjected to his magic influence on the end of a
stick, and who is thus wrecked high in the air., are
now among the attractions at Bondi Aquarium,
where a diorama of Scotland is also on view. On
Saturday Professor Wild Bugg held forth at the
same place, and the efforts of this natural history
specimen were much appreciated. The Aquariums
at Manly and Coogee, alas ! haven’t any Bugg.
** * *
Shakespeare and Essie Jenyns have put in
their classic time at Melbourne Bijou. Papa Hol-
loway took his last lingering farewell ben. on
Friday night, and now “Hans, the Boatman,” is
pulling his little bark with the rippling tide of the
beautiful river of good business. Mr. Charles
Arnold, the latest American novelty, takes five-
sixths of the cake. Most of the remaining frac-
tion is daintily devoured by Miss Myra Kemble
and a female fairy of tender years, while a few
crumbs fall to Miss Pattie Brown and a company
efficient in all but one particular. The one par-
ticular is aMr. H. M'Lean, late of St. Maur’s rather
wooden-headed crowd. As a play, “Hans, the
Boatman,” is a cheery reminiscence of “Rip Van
Winkle,” Minnie Palmer, and Joe Emmett, and
the reason of its catching on shall be intelligibly
set forth next week.
** * #
“ The Barrister ” made a well-advertised
start at Melbourne Princess’ on Saturday, and
turned out to be thin and comical like the hind
legs of a dude. Two authors brought their intel-
lects to bear on this old, old story of how an inno-
cent husband gets suspected of doing things he
ought not to have done until the curtain falls on a
general clearing up. One’ author, working all by
himself, might have kept the plot less ravelled,
and the fun less farcical. Mr. Charles Warren
rattles through the name part in his happiest style,
and the support is as handsome as the scenery.
“The Barrister” will run on until the public
signify that they have had enough in the usual
manner. “Left to Perish” was left and did
perish at the Alexandra, where Miss Ada
Ward is doing her best to wake things
up. As Leah she curdled the blood of a
fairly-filled house on Saturday night, looking and
playing Miss Bateman’s famous character with
striking effect. During the week Ada will (I>. V.)
let down her hair and endeavour to lure her ad-
mirers on to “ East Lynne.” She has been anti-
cipated in this heavy enterprise by Miss Helen
Vivian, who finished up a dull season at the Opera
House by tearing the woes of Lady Isabel into
shreds. But Miss Ward is reputed to be worth
seeing in the worn-out part. It would be a pity to
waste more good butter on “ Mankind,” at the
Royal, because that entertaining spectacle is about
to make room for a revival of “Alone in Lon-
don.” Which reminds us that the Amy Sherwin
Company start opera-tions at the Opera House on
Saturday, with Governor Loch in the vice-regal
chair. A band of jodellers, fresh from the summit
of Mount Blanc, are announced for the Town
Hall, the Coghills are still in evidence at St.
George’s, and the Victoria is rushed by everybody
interested in anatomical puzzles. The truly re-
markable Donaldson Brothers can fix up their
human forms divine in 27 different ways, no bone
remaining twice running in the same portion of
the body, and each bone bending three different
ways.
Ji.
TV* •7V TV* "/V* <
One of Robert Browning’s tragedies-
“The Blot on the ’Scutcheon’’—was played in
London the other day. The heroine of the Blot
thus accounts for an early indiscretion —“I was
very young ; I had no mother, God, forgot me—
and I fell ” Oddly enough a certain Australian
actor-author ” wrote a drama in which the
heroine made an exactly similar confession in the
same identical words. As some excuse for poet
Browning’s plagiarism we must mention that he
anticipated the Australian fellow by 20 or 30 years o
*7Y* -TV* 'TV' *
Mons. Victor has been posing as a mes’’
merist at Adelaide Town Hall, and the local Press
stated that four subjects proved pliant in the
dapper Frenchman’s hands. “Proved pliant” L,
splendidly vague. At St. George’s Hall, Mel-
bourne, where the same wizard gave an experi
mental show, quite a dozen subjects were alter-
nately pliant and stiff beneath his magnetic touchy
They swallowed everything he gave them, and
made almost as big fools of themselves as they
made of Victor. But perhaps he has secured some
of Kennedy’s leading performers, who were in
such a state of collapse that anyone might put them
under the influence with a good strong sneeze.
Af- AL AL- At.
nr- I “TV* Tv* ■7v'
Herr Bandmann’s wife is about to re
appear in London, as Lady Macbeth. She is now
but a pale wreck of the pretty Millie (not Minn A)
Palmer who found some strange fascination in the
Herr, and married him because she couldn’t help
it. Bandmann has been publicly accused of beat-,
ing his wife, but he never beat her in Australia.
She didn’t come over with him, in fact. So
supreme was Bandmann’s influence over his Eng-
lish wife that she spoke like a foreigner soon after
her marriage.
*# # #
It is on the cards that Barton M‘G uckin
will join Miss Amy Sherwin’s opera company
during the forthcoming season in Melbourne,
M‘Guckin has—or at any rate, had—a pure tenor
voice, and a face many removes from a painter’s
ideal of manly beauty.
.V.
*7V* TV *7V“
Little Josef Hoffmann is likely to have
his liberally-proportioned nose put out of joint by
another juvenile prodigy named Otto Hegner.
Otto can thump as much melody out of the pianny
as ever Josef can, moreover he is a more luscious
type of infant, and takes kindly to the soft endear-
ments of his lady admirers. Josef complained
that the duchesses kissed him till he felt sick,
*7V* *7v* *7**
A man threw a bottle from the gallery of
Melbourne Opera House one night a while back,
and split the head of the small boy in the stalls.
Of course the missile was intended for one of the
actors. The man was simply bottling his wrath.
## * #
The portrait of Miss Nellie Stewart in last
week’s Bulletin was, we neglected to state, taken
from a fine photo, by Charlemont. A British reve-
rend delivered a lecture the other day on “The
Church and the Stage.” In the course of his
remarks he stated that he didn’t see anything
wicked in a ladies’ swimming match though the
lovely competitors had nothing on but almost
invisible silk, and that no good Christian need
shun the theatrical leg-show, the same being a
lawful enjoyment. Further, he considered’’ it
possible for a humble believer to go to Heaven in
tights. Madame Modjeska smokes. She was
asked why she did so and replied, “ Because I like
it.” If she hadn’t liked it she wouldn’t have done it.
An excellent woman in North Wales, not being
pleased with having the walls of her town
placarded over with bills representing one of her
own sex-in a condition of extreme undress, ex-
pressed her disapprobation by tearing the placard s
down with her parasol. A low-minded and carnal
beak fined her £1 and costs. It is stated that a
new kind of stage-totter has been invented to
supply the place of the obsolete Grecian Bend and
Roman Fall. The Jersey Lily is reported to be
in a peck of trouble. Miss Nadage Donee, a,
youngactress whom she “sacked” at Chicago,!/vied
a distress-warrant on her properties for sala/y and
costs, and took out the arrears in stockings,
garters, hand-mirrors, curling-tongs, 30-button
gloves, powder-puffs, stay-laces, and other articles.
Consequently the Lily has positively nothing to
wear. A French circus-clown was strangled the
other day by the armless woman of the show. In
a new drama, which is to come out in London
some time in the year 1999, the characters are all*
killed in the third act, and the fourth is. carried
on entirely by their heirs and executors, Violet;
Nicholls, _ aged five, is singing with considerable
success in concert-halls in various parts of
Victoria. Miss Annie Mayor, the well-
known Australian actress, is said by the San
Francisco Argonaut to have made a great sue
cess as Marguerite at the California Theatre. In
some Italian towns, doves tied up with ribbons
are thrown to stage favourites in place of
bouquets. The actress afterwards has them
cooked for supper.
A Chicago journal used to rhyme Goethe
with teeth, until the Renaissance set in, since
when it rhymes it with dirty— Life.
Desperate Encounter in the
West Indies!
Few of us living under the sunshine of civiliza-
tion, and enjoying the blessings of the social and
scientific advancements of the present age, can
bring ourselves to realise the hardships, trials,
difficulties and dangers of those who seek their
fortunes in new and foreign countries.
The wonderful and startling experiences in the
East and West Indies, as related by Mr. R.
.Wilson Jones, of Barker’s-road, Kew, a prominent
citizen, and a gentleman whose business and social
standing places his veracity beyond refutation,
certainly verify the assertion that “truth is
stronger than fictionJ’
There are probably many readers of this paper
who have had hair-breadth escapes, and even been
called upon to look death sternly in the face, but
comparatively few possess the presence of mind
exhibited by Mr. Jones : at the same time, in his
modesty, he throws himself into the background,
and endeavours to impress upon us the value and
importance of a careful choice of companions from
among the thousands one is thrown in contract
with when among strangers and in foreign lands.
We cannot do better than to give Mr. Jones’s
account in his own words. He writes us, under
date of 10th of April, 1888, as follows :
“During my residence in the West and EaA
Indies, and Australia, Warner’s safe cure and
Warner’s safe | nils have been my sole coutpan ions
for health, and I can highly recommend them to
all suffering from climatic changes.
I may state that several years ago! suffered from
a severe form of diabetes, passing seven pints of
water daily, and suffering great pain, but after
using seven or eight bottles of Warner’s safe Din-
betes cure 1 felt myself rapidly improving, and
now lam thoroughly well. It will give me veri-
great pleasure to testify to my numerous friend’s
your wonderful cure. ”
Let all who travel or who remain at home follow
Mr. Jones’s advice, and choose this safe companion


THE CELEBRATED
Wolfe’s Schnapps
THE MOST
LARGELY CONSUMED
SPIRIT
IN AUSTRALIA.
SUPERIOR T<)
mm, nisn, nil,
OR ANY OTHER
KNOWN SPIRIT.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-wtiitb
Patknt Bom,kr FTiOt-r. It is the greatest success of the
age
Pepper
Salt
A distinguished Chow has stated that
“the Chinese who voluntarily put thousands of
miles of sea between himself and the graves of his
ancestors is a bad Chinese, always excepting a
servant of the Emperor proceeding about on
official duty. ” Just so.--
One of the saddest, wildest, vastest things
in Nature is, as a poet has said, the contemplation
of what might have happened if something had
been that wasn’t. Compared to its overshadow-
ing dimensions even the dream of what was but
shouldn’t ought to be, and the ideal of what
might have been if it hadn’t turned out otherwise,
sink into comparative insignificance, and their
otherwise imposing bulk is lost amid the shadowy
procession of the things that aren’t so. Pastor
Brunton, of Dunedin (N.Z.), sin-paralyser and
toiler in the vineyard, is now reflecting upon these
things, and when he issues his pamphlet, to be
entitled “ A Scream from the Vestry,” it is ex-
pected that he will embody them in its tearful
page. For the Rev. Brunton has been let in for
a £2OO verdict in a libel action. It was a small,
harmless looking libel action when it first
loomed on the shepherd’s horizon, but it grew and
grew, and ate its way along until it bids fair at
last to devour the pastor’s tables and chairs
and his bedstead and his hymn-book and leave
him penniless. It has become one of those
unseen forces which work silently during the
night and neither prayer nor insect-powder
has any effect upon it. And yet Pastor
Brunton did it all for the best. In the full-
ness of his heart he wrote a pathetic letter in
which he implied that a lady had two or more
husbands at once, and that she had galloped over
the dusty tomes of the moral code, and cantered
on the tenderest feelings of the human ’art. lb-
wept for her depravity, and a cold expression
which was not of this world came into his eye as
he thought of the sufferings of her husband and of
the other fellow who either was her husband or
ought to have been. Yet, in making these re-
marks, he was innocent as a cow, and had no more
thought of doing evil than he had of chewing
tobacco. But, all the same, a son of Belial served
him with a writ, and a legal stork gave a verdict
against him which makes him wish he were dead.
*
TO THE AUSTRALIAN CREEPER.
Remember the worm that chancefully crawls
In the palace of kaiser or carpeted halls
Is soon by the broom of the lackey outbrushed,
And its greatness depends on its not being
crushed; _
put the eel from its slime in the crystals that hold
The elegant creature of silver and gold,
And ’twill very soon chew its regretfullest cud,
And wish itself happily back in the mud.
• * *
One of the great wants of the age is a
“ Eat Woman’s Journal. ' All the fashion-
papers of the day cater for the slender, willowy
darling of 22, and the fat woman and the stout
female and the fleshy creature and the apoplectic
lady and the fashionable being who is embonpoint
are as studiously ignored as if they were abso-
lutely non-existent. The slender, delicately-shaped
angel has a hundred papers devoted to her in-
terests, all filled with designs in which ladies oft. 7in.
in height and 18in. round the waist are shown
clad in all manner of pretty things, and with
stories about the adventures of lovely girls vary-
ing from 18 to 23, and as beautiful as the morn-
ing, and with gushing letters signed “ Dora” or
“ Guinevere,” which deal exclusively with the
glorious mashes perpetrated by golden girls in
golden frocks and auriferous socks, and clad in
white dresses with giraffe-sneeze ribbons round
the. middle of them ; and amid all these joys the
fat woman wanders like an outcast sinner glaring
over the pearly fence of Paradise. Even the
recipes for use in cases of sudden illness are
issued solely in the interests of the fairy-lilte
dreams of bliss of whom we so often read, but
whom, alas ! we so seldom see except with
the eye of faith. Instructions for treat-.
ing a fainting feminine patient are given
with lavish profusion, but they invariably,
commence with a peremptory command to bear
the sufferer in your arms to the open air, and the
fat woman who knows that no living mortal could
lift her without breaking his back, laughs a
fiendish laugh when she reads this, and jumps
upon the dastardly pamphlet which dares to mock
her misery. It is impossible that a large and in-
fluential sfetion of the community can much
longer submit to this studied insult; the time is
ripe for the establishment of a “Fat Woman’s
Journal,” and a fortune awaits the enterprising
founder of such a magazine. What is wanted is
an interesting serial in which the tales shall deal
exclusively with the adventures of fat women, and
shall reveal the romantic shades of the fat woman’s
existence, with illustrations showing how the fat
woman was loved by a noble youth, and how she
triumphed over a hundred enemies, and finally
gave herself to him at the altar, and lived happily
ever afterwards. The fashion-plates, too, must be
constructed solely with a view to showing how the
obese lady is to be adorned with pretty tilings till
she becomes a dream of loveliness, and in the in-
structions for the treatment of fashionable ail-
ments the fainting patient must be removed to the,
open air in a hand-painted and enamelled wheel-
barrow, with her head upwards in order to [(re-
vent congestion and subsequent apoplexy. Even
in such stray items as “ Instructions how to
Act in a Burning Theatre,” consistency must be
maintained ; the editress must no longer advise
her readers to crawl beneath a seat to avoid being
trodden on in the first rush of mad excitement,
well knowing all the time that the fat woman
can’t get under a seat without bursting her clothes
asunder in 1G different places, but she must advise
subscribers to featherbed themselves with remorse-
less ferocity against the crush on the stairs, and
tread with 2401b5. of humanity on top of the pros-
SALVATION HARMY CAPTING : “THANK ’EAVEN! I WAS A BURGULAR AN
NOW HIM SAYED!”
ANCIENT ONE: “THAT'S NOTHING! I WAS ONCE EDITOR OF A RELIGIOUS
PAPER.”
trate sufferers until she reaches the street; and in
papers on equestrian exercise she must lay parti-
cular stress on the unreliable nature of the horse,
and then pass on hurriedly to explain how the fat
woman can travel by train. These, and a hundred
other points, if carefully attended to, would make
a “ Fat Woman’s Journal” a stupendous success,
and would fill a long felt want in the bosom of
that section of humanity which looks like a keg of
rain-water on two feet.
* * *
When some day or other Peter Ferguson,
of Yictoria, starts for the. other world there will
be a scare in the realms of bliss, for the word will
pass round that one of the most cantankerous
men who ever came out of A ustralia is marching
up the straight road. For 30 years Peter has
stolidly pounded road-metal for a cold-blooded
Government, and he is known in that branch of
the Civil Service which devotes itself to smashing-
rocks as the saddest and most profane companion
who ever entered the service of the department.
A few weeks ago he was pursuing his wonted
avocation on a long, dusty road near Hamilton,
and along with him a despondent new-chum, who
had come down \Vith grief from a tall hat and
stick-up collar to the ignominy of broken boots
and road-metal, was sorrowfully learning how to
repair the tracks of the coming Republic. He
still wore some relics of his vanished glory, for he
smashed rocks in a tail-coat, and his senior
partner, whenever he stopped to have a drink of
whisky, was wont to curse this effeminate
garment and derisively flick the tail of
it with his foot. The new-chum, however, was
too utterly crushed to resent these insults, and
then the old man would express his opinion that a
dog would shudder at the sight of such »n object,
and would offer to kick him for his mother, after
which the work would go on as before. Now and
then the suppressed and downtrodden foreigner
would heave a long pathetic sigh as he pursued his
toil, and on these occasions Peter would sit
savagely up on end, and ask what he meant by
weeping on the public roads, and allude to him as
a snuffling dude, and offer to hang him for a small
sum payable in coppers; and amid this cheerful
flow of conversation the day would pass slowly
away. But at last a painful incident occurred
which showed that even the most cantankerous of
stone-breakers may possess some spark of human
sympathy. It was a blazing afternoon, and the
head of the firm had just missed his junior’s head
with a huge “gibber,” when the crushed dude
uttered an unearthly howl, and leaping five feet in
the air he screamed out, “Great heavens! I’m
bit by a snake ! ” Peter sat down and looked at
him, and then he glanced at a tuft of grass in
which a small reptile was wriggling. Next he
opened his mouth slowly and said, “Oh!”
Finally he went over to the tuft of grass, and
brought his hammer down on it with a thud, after
which he resumed his labours saying, with the
fortitude of a Roman father, “Shet yer head, oi-
l’ll bile yer tail-coat for dinner.” But his humble
follower pranced about and groaned dismally.
“ I’m not prepared to die,” he explained piteously ;
“ what’s the best thing for snakebite? What can
I do?” “ P’raps ye’d better tie a rope round yer
arm and cut the place out with a penknife, ” said
Peter, with an evil grin. “If that don’t answer,
ye can curse and pray a bit. I always curse my-
self when I’m bitten by a snake,” and he pounded
away at the stones and croaked a melancholy
song. The sufferer tied his wrist up as advised,
and cut out the wounded part, and then he started
to run round and round the heap of stones with an
insane idea that it was essential to keep awake
under all circumstances, and as he ran he called
earnestly upon his sainted mother to remember
him when he was gone. “Dash yer sainted
mother,” said the born Australian, irritably.
“What's yer sainted mother to do with it?
She ain’t been bit, has she?” “I’ll never see her
again,” wailed the pilgrim in a .strange land.
“}Well, wot ’o that? I’ll never see her either, I
suppose, and I don’t make such a row about it.
Dry up, and run a bit faster,” and the new-chum
ran for two hours, and sucked his injury at inter-
vals. At last he collapsed from sheer exhaustion
and sat down on the stones, and then Sandy laid
down his hammer, and addressed him. “P’raps
ye don’t know what a blessed fool ye’ve been
making of yerself for three hours an’more,” he
said, affably. “Ye’ve been carry in’ on like a
dashed scarecrow in a tail-coat an’ talkin’ of yer
sainted mother an’ other rot, an’ it wasn’t a snake
after all. 1 never seen such an a&)> It was only
a bloomin’ lizard. Now, what do you think of
yourself ?” At this point the new-chum ‘rose in
violent insurrection, and at latest advices Peter
Ferguson was breaking stones,by himself.
• • •
A man at Nathalia (Yic.) has pranced
into print with a new and improved snake-yarn.
He says his attention was recently attracted by a
blade serpent sliding into a hole. He procured a
spade and dug the reptile out. After carving it
into sections, he went on digging, and disinterred
17 snakes one after the other before he desisted
from his labours—the snake-juice being exhausted,
probably.
# • *
A certain backblocks surveyor saw his
black boy one morning straining his (the sur-
veyor’s) coffee through one of his socks, and accord-
ingly yelled at him. The darkey looked up with
an assuring smile and replied, “ All right, Air.
, not clean sock.”
Those bad Chinese ! Those bad Chinese !
Why do they come across the seas ?
We beg them, in appealing tones,
To linger by their fathers’ bones,
Whereunto every, pious Chow
Is joined by a solemn vow.
Their ancestors they much displease —
Those bad Chinese ! Those bad Chinese !
Those bad Chinese ! Those bad Chinese-
Foul scatterers of strange disease —
They turn their backs on boyhood’s scenes
To cultivate our peas and beans ;
And when they die in lands remote
Send home their darned remains by boat,
Thus thinking to their gods appease—
Those bad Chinese! Those bad Chinese !
Those bad Chinese ! Those bad Chinese !
Who play fan-tan and “ square the P’s.”
Denounced at home as worthless lots,
’Tis time our lepers changed their spots.
What more excuse can Austral need
For clearing out the loathsome breed ?
We’ll ship them back, protesting “These
.Are bad Chinese, are bad Chinese.”
Nasty Remarks.
[Many Original, and Some TBCE |jjj
Two women who had swallo" ®j j 6 jjjd
teeth were last week treated tre #
Hospital, Sydney. Women ne yet
for swallowing their t(»n 0
tongues an.! as false as then t
Present, Rake ; future, Wreck ‘,
* * o. va v3 l 1
Those who live good U^‘ S al l .yetting l
well. How fat the clergy ar ;
Man, who used to g° to
up on his hind legs and Gv ial1) li e
when, after becoming an to
covered that lie had a
Bipeds and Corporations we
developments. ,
Very few women are as go
painte,L . * . # bea wi
“ How to look young is g ere is < l \ jl!
a long newspaper-article. & 'curse ■,
fallible recipe : Nevei aS jt o |
happens to anybody so 0 o
happen to you. *
* * that when l flE^
Mudgee Haynes says that thel r fa
letin people are mouideu: (
lie will be Premier of - • ■ , r 6 H**J j
good! WeavmHobc dead
1 Vernier. *, jp
* i_h U mom' e(l,
Rogues are always g°° ' gon ,
you rarely meet a cynical I • , >
* , Soclote^ 6 j
Publicans live by beer,
advocates. # / 0^
Love your neighbour a n $
Never visit the man or f r |
next door. ' Nations w i°= aC c.
mutual maintain only arm e * J
* * f yOU r j |lil
The short and simple . ir chi ve g 0 jr*
hour are fully written m girls-
and your -respective ser
your annals. t^t
* • Llv § ire ps
“He who gives T ul< r.Ai v co® ie
Quite true—Parkes ge" erft J
■w*"- , . ... >5
>ll UjfJ ,
Gratitude is a iue: ' ...Ia wb° se r
amongst weak-minded p° 1 in t 1 |
the courage to censure - ll
whom they have receb cc. • *
* * f aU e<V
Never frequent places 0 t th cl
sort. You are sure to * ,
body who knows you. , „th
* • ■ VeSi t^ e d
Death is beautiful. -r’];
rich relative is very beau \
O * „gk S "a# J
If you are a beggar nm® put
anything when she is a 1 g 6 t 1® Mb a
women are tog ether you c ‘^ t f
both, because each is <l g|? . $
think her stingy if/die iC jjesf j.
modified degree this also - e py (|,|f
To Men. -Before marring # #
open ; after, keep them • up jy
* * 1 -v tli® %;g e(
The longer the g G f ea Sd
goose. The bluer the #
blackguard. „ l)’ 1 I
V to o oftf
An hereditary title lS j
tombstone of a name w a A l , J
* * w f
Young man, lirst youp°^,j ie u H
you pocket the ready- , J
you. #
If a woman is g°°d al g i ie ’s
women slander her. W
they slander her. a pk® y
like blow-flies, they t aS , q)i(
and the corrupt. . s iii ,I V‘
An old Roman Pope ji) $
lish captives remark©*, , Y -j
but angels ” (Nun An[) 1 j ft ys 7,
could only see them lK ''.Q llTl eP- , $
“ Not Angels but EngL- f/3
* * f tb e is l). 1
Honesty is the
didn’t drop to 25 p® r J
cooked contract until 1 j0 fi ■ /(
irta tender.-V.N V ■
* * ja» '*
Before marriage '' /< ’ ll ! r iag® pk 1
idyllic poem; after ft
man only a bitter society l t Jij^
to wear a wig. It u fae ufAuf
mg a wigji-e ceases t » A y
tence. This is wK> , , n cU c iG
America and never 1} J Idl |/
* „ . dN° r
A nation goes for ‘ l 0 * J
ground of cruelty wl |C Jflk
its wife. # ,\a ® > '- ,
The modesty of * S
the exaggeration of t ’ - o ii»
re rel f t 0 :l
Women of fashion ® @ w ( 1 r
they read that a man
iu a chariot. » j-e^’
Matthew lold { ids^’ 1 ■
Paul in the quality jvfost fl®' M
Christian l’latonist* pq^-ist 1 ' 1 "
our acquaintance at® JH


“ I have found Mr. W. P. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared,
only by W. P. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown,
Obtainable from all Chemists. Take no substitutes.
Study your own interest by usinr Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally g;ood, and the price very low.*
Personal Items.
The champion glutton of the North has
been made a J.P.
“ Stockwhip ” Kelly has a libel action
Against a Sydney daily. He claims £lOOO.
There is a township in Victoria called
Deakin. It is named after Alfred the Great.
The Empress of Austria, who has tried
cocaine, denies that it is a specific for sea-sickness.
There is only one well-known Consul in
Sydney who ostentatiously drinks coffee out of his
saucer.
Bishop Barry and Bishop Moran make
tracks for civilisation. Spiritual duty commands.
Arch Bishops !
Eighty-nine popes, presidents, emperors,
and sultans, died during the lifetime of the late
German Emperor.
Sir Samuel Griffith’s health is causing
great anxiety to his friends. He is suffering
severely from insomnia.
We are told that on his return from
Europe, Mr. Salomons, Q.C., found on his office-
table over £3OOO worth of briefs.
Mr. Terry has been appointed manager of
the Australian Star, the sub-editorship of which
paper is now filled by Mr. Saunders.
H. Rider Haggard, who now complains
that he has lost £50,000 by American literary
piracy, was once bullock-punching in the Trans-
vaal.
The oldest British peer is Viscount Evers-
ley, who is ninety-three years old, and the
youngest is the Duke of Albany, ninety years his
junior.
The Queen of England speaks German in
her home circle, while new daughter, the new
Empress of Germany, converses in English at the
fireside in Berlin.
Matthew Arnold said in a criticism of the
American character, published in the Nineteenth
Century just before he died, that “ civilisation in
America is a failure. ”
Mr. Henry Fenton, for years head of the
typographical department of The Bulletin, has
made a big success" with his paper, the Barrier
Miner, at Broken Hill.
The allowance of the Crown Prince of
Germany is barely a quarter as much as England
gives any of the Queen’s younger children ! What
if Wales’ pocket-money were cut down to that ?
Mr. J. S. Farnell, M.L.A., once Premier
of N.S.W., is in a very dangerous state of health.
The condition of Mr. Angus Cameron, the
N.S.W. Chairman of Committees, is also critical.
Bismarck has refused the title of Duke, as
he is not rich enough to gild the title. Why does
he not, like the Duke of Manchester, let himself
out as a stipendiary director of financial com-
panies ?
Mrs. Gaorge Milner Stephen, who died
recently in London,, at the age of 70, was daughter
of Sir John Hindmarsh, the first Governor of
S.A., and mother of Mr. Harold Stephen, of the
Sydney press.
London now boasts many aristocratic
milliners. “Mme. Valentine,” of Mortimer Street,
is Mrs. Charles Gurney, a sister of Mr. Val
Prinsep, and formerly the reigning beauty in
London society.
Sydney Sunday Times considers that “the
effeminate and narrow-minded folly of the clergy
is at the root of much of the irreverence Bishop>
Barry laments, for no man in his senses can rever-
ence the things called reverend. ”
Over eight million dollars—£l,6oo 000—
are. said to have been subscribed for a memorial to'
the poet Longfellow. Apropos, we have heard
nothing lately of the testimonial to poet Parkes.
Has it yet reached the ten thousand ?
It is sad to read that Ruskin has now to
be confined in a lunatic asylum. His acutely
critical mind is utterly breaking down, and he
now amuses himself by clanging bells throughout
the weary daylight hours of insanity.
Mr. William Singleton, an old and es-
teemed resident of the Hunter (N.S.W.), died last
week at Maitland. He was born in Windsor
(N.S.W.), in 1815, and is said to have been the
first person to cross the Liverpool Range.
Ckaffey Bros., the irrigationists who sup-
ply their tenant-shareholders at Renmark with
plenty of water but no grog, will be represented
in Queensland by Aleck J. Ivimey, who is getting
up another book on that suffering colony.
Rider Haggard is a slightly built, wiry-
looking blonde, with a pale complexion and light-
blue eyes. He is very much of a lion in London
ociety, where, with “a vague manner of well-
bred ennui, he listens to the fulsome allusions to
his books.”
James Munro, M.P. for Geelong (Vic.),
speaking at an anti-Chinese meeting in the Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week, said that every good
man in Victoria should have a wife and ten chil-
dren. A number of his colleagues are not so sure
about the wife.
When, as Crown Prince, the present
German Emperor was suffering at San Remo, his
great desire was to live long enough to succeed to
the Crown in order that he might leave his family
with a good allowance. Now his desire is satisfied
and he is very willing to die.
Among the most recent batch of magis-
trates made by Parkes and Co. is Mr. Tom
Finney, a Brisbane linen-draper, whose claim to
be a J.P. of N.S.W. is chiefly based, no doubt,
upon the fact of his being a customer and country-
man of the all-powerful Calico Jimmies, of York-
street, Sydney.
The late Duke of Rutland and Disraeli
were enthusiastic enemies. When the latter re-
turned from Berlin bearing “peace with honor,”
and made himself a Knight of the Garter, some
one asked him why he did not also make hinuelf a
duke. “ A duke 1 ” exclaimed he ; “ make myself
a duke ? Why, Rutland’s a duke ! ”
From a Balmain (N.S.W.) paper :
“ y[ r- —, (M.P.), was closely buttoned up as usual,
and therefore it was impossible to tell whether he had a
clean shirt, or indeed any shirt at all. The inference,
however, was that he did not possess such a garment.
He had, however, a pair of 16s. 6d. trousers (made to
measure), but they rested on boots that had evidently
seen better days.”
This is what we call personal.
By order of that Roman-faced gentleman,
our trusty and well-beloved Sir Frederick
Matthew Darley, Chief Justice of N.S.W., the
local Supreme Court Judges now appear in court
on the first day of Term in all the glory of full-
bottomed wigs. Judge Owen took his seat the
other day as Chief Judge in Equity in proud im-
perial vestments of black and gold.
The Princess of Wales is again suffering
from an attack of deafness. She is now compelled
to use an ear-trumpet, a necessity which she very
unwillingly submits to. The King of Greece, the
Princess of Wales’s brother, is troubled with a
like deafness, although the King’s case is worse.
It has been said of him that he could not hear a
cannon roar without an ear-trumpet.
The Melbourne Secular Association, cor-
rupted by the example of Parliament and the
Presbyterian Assembly, has had a row, and mem-
bers have called each other cruel names, to the
great delight of the holy orthodox papers, who,
doubtless, are pleased to discover that the two
popular institutions mentioned do not contain all
the rascality in the community despite appear-
ances.
The S.M. Herald’s correspondent, who
is an authority on aristocratic affairs, says that
two of the sons of Lord North have come down
very low in circumstances. ‘ 1 One is a cavalry ser-
geant with 2s. a day pay; the other has opened a
butcher’s shop not far from the ancestral estates. ”
It is also stated that “ a noble lord has been forced
to accept the position of town traveller to a well-
known firm of pianoforte makers.”
A certain Bishop Luscombe arrived one
day at Paddington (London), and could not find
his luggage. He called a porter to get it for him,
telling him the name to be read on the articles.
The porter, very busy with other people, an-
swered hurriedly, “You must go to hell for your
luggage.” The place was run on alphabetical
principles, and the man, who was a pure-bred
cockney, of course meant “go to L.”
One day, Charles Baudelaire came to
Maxime du Camp’s rooms with his close-cropped
hair dyed green. Du Camp affected not to notice
it. Baudelaire did all he could to direct atten-
tion to it, and finally, as his friend persisted in not
noticing it, he burst out : “Don’t you see any-
thing strange about me to-day ? ” Du Camp
answered : “ Not at all; lots of people have green
hair.” Baudelaire left at once, disgusted.
The regular allowance made to the Prince of
Wales by Parliament is £40,000 a year, to which
must be added £lO,OOO more annually allowed to
the Princess. He receives a further annual in-
come of £60,000 to £70,000 from the revenues of
the Duchy of Cornwall. His income, in round
SIR EVERY PORKES
numbers, is thus about £lOO,OOO annually. He
spends every penny of it, and is often reported as
being in debt. The Prince is in his forty-eighth
year. He is scarcely sft/7in.,and has become
quite stout. He must weigh fully 12st. 21b.
The present German empress is the fifth
English princess who has held that rank. The
others were.: Edgytb, daughter of Edward the
Elder, wife of Otto the First; Gunhild f daughter
of Knut, wife of Henry the Third, of Germany,;
Matilda, the link between the Norman and
Plantagenet dynasties, wife of Henry the Fifth,
of Germany; and Isabella, daughter of King
John, wife of Frederick the Seeond, the Wonder
of the World. This last-named princess was a
direct ancestor of the late Prince Consort of Eng-
land, and, therefore, of the present German em-
press.
The British lion—Pope Leo.
Between the lines —G. H. Reid.
The Rabbit Commission —Sixpence a skin.
A dead loss —That verdict against the
Bulli Company.
Luk Wooe, a graceless Pagan, has won
£5OO in a Ballarat lottery. The Devil’s own Luk !
Wolf, butcher, of Melbourne,' has filed his
schedule. People preferred to keep Wolf from
the door.
A slaver was (it is cabled) capsized while
being chased by H.M.S. Garnet, on the East
African coast, and 100 of the slaves were drowned.
As the niggers went down, there arose one Wild,
despairing shriek : “Save us from our friends !”
He was a Hielandman of bibulous aspect
and his overseer, Murphy, appeared to answer the
charge of travelling his employer’s sheep without
having same duly bottle-branded. And Murphy
explained to the Bench that “he thought the
masther’s nose was bottle-branded.”
It was in the course of one of those little
matrimonial tiffs without which no
stituted man and wife should possibly contnve to
exist. “I disgraced my family when I married
you,” she said. “My poor papa used to keep his
carriage.” But he, who knew perfectly well that
her respectable parent had derived his income
from certain pursuits not wholly unconnected with
cab-driving, cantered home an easy winner, with
the retort : “ Well, when I knew him his carriage
used to keep him —and it didn’t keep him m
much! ”
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Cumbcrland-disease—Freetrade.
J ohn Sutherland is sick. Sick of Parkes.
There is only one thing more uncertain
than life—the Sydney D.T.’s policy.
Gladstone says nothing can be done in the
present Parliament. His duty is to force an early
dissolution.
The South Australian Press still calls
N.S. Wales Australia. Only it is put with in-
verted commas.
At a late date the N.S.W. Minister for
Lands was said to be “Still absent. His where-
abouts apparently unknown.”
There are 211,132 electors on the Victorian
rolls. Of these 196,208 are on the ratepayers’ and
14,924 on the manhood-suffrage rolls.
Parkes’ old Kiaina Ghost was green. His
present Kiama Ghost (the fear of a Chinese in-
vasion should we cut the painter) is yellow.
The Vatican has decided to condemn
Henry George’s books. The safety-valve of pro-
gress is to be weighted down with an anathema.
M. Carnot has received 1188 invitations
from various public bodies in France to attend
celebrations of the centenary of the Revolution.
A chairman for the new N.S.W. Railway
Board is to be imported from England. So that
Mr. Goodchap, the present commissioner, will lose
the appointment.
Harwood, of the Victorian Trades Hall
Council, says the pig-tail is a mark of allegiance
to the Chinese Empire. Gillies must hide his
under his hat then.
China can teach us something. The Em-
peror has commanded all pawnbrokers to pay in
advance 100 taels each towards the Yellow River
Floods Relief Fund.
The London Bulletin considers that an
Irish constable who threw down his rifle and
refused to assist at an eviction deserves the medal
of the Royal Humane Society.
There were in a Sydney print the other
day two letters signed Haynes. One related to
small-pox and the other to Freetrade. There
ought to have been a third on leprosy.
‘ ‘ There are three vacancies in the Hobart
Legislative Council.” This is nonsense. [Three
vacancies ! Why, the Council has two or three
dozen members, and each of them has a head.
Hartington now refers" to Ireland as a
subordinate province. Not our sister, but our
slavey! This is the sort of thing calculated to
make the Irish turn black in the face with grati-
tude.
The Queensland Government published a
Gazette “ extraordinary, ” announcing the ap-
pointment of a new aide-de-camp to the Governor
of the colony ! When will the curtain fall on the
stupendous farce ?
Parkes now says : “No more Chinamen.”
Byand-bye he will say: “No more shoddy.”
Parkes’ opinions are not the bloom of the grape
at maturity. They are only the drippings from
the wine-press of necessity.
Ah Haynes ascribes Protectionist Gee’s
indisposition to contest the Cumberland (N.S.W.)
election to the alleged fact that Mr. Gee has em-
ployed Chinese labour. “Ah Gee ! you’re afraid
to Kum On,” remarks the Haynes.
Mr. Abbott is superintending in the
N.S.W. Assembly a “Bill for the regulation and
registration of dams.” The measure deserves
public support as the first serious attempt that
has ever been made to give the Recording Angel a
rest.
When Cunningham Graham remarked, in
the British House of Commons, that “he wished
for a democratic form of government and the pay-
ment of members,” he was greeted with loud
Ministerial laughter. They laugh best who laugh
last.
The S.M. Herald cableman wires that
“the action of the Pope in denouncing boycotting
and the ‘ plan of campaign ’ was entirely sponta-
neous.” Why this statement and who said the
Pope’s action wasn’t spontaneous ? Qui s’excuse,
s’accuse.
“The English Catholics are denouncing
the Pope.’s condemnation of ‘the plan of cam-
paign,’ formed a Home Rule League
towards the (funds of which Peter’s pence are to
be directed,” says a recent cablegram in the Aus-
tralian dailies. This reads very curiously when
we consider that the most bigoted opponents of
Home Rule for Ireland are English Catholics.
A Melbourne paper speaks about ‘ ‘ Links
in the Chain of Imperial Federation.” Just so—
the phrase is perfect. But it is bad form to be
always clanking one’s chain and talking about
more links. Why not, occasionally, enquire con-
cerning a file ?
S.A. has adopted Protection, and already
the revenue promises to show a surplus in place
of the immense deficits which have for years been
the rule. In the few months since the establish-
ment of the new tariff more than a dozen new in-
dustries have started.
Of the 300 Chinese, brought to Australia
by the steamer Afghan, there is not one but could
carry his luggage in his handkerchief. Allowed
to land they would add nothing to the wealth of
Australia except a little smuggled opium and a
few millions of leprosy-microbes.
Australia £120,000 per annum to be
‘ ‘ defended ” from attacks by sea. The new belted
cruiser Orlando, ifow under orders to relieve the
Nelson as flagship on this station, cannot “at
present ” be placed in commission because of “ a
delay in supplying the vessel with guns!!!”
The Melbourne Presbyterian Assembly
sympathises with the squelched heathen, and
whilst the Afghan was anchored off Williamstown
passed a resolution of condolence with the perse-
cuted and long-suffering Mongolian, coupled with
a dark menace hurled at a tyrannous Government.
Lord Monkswell recommends assisted
emigration to Australia, because while the Staf-
fordshire chain-makers were working long hours
for ss. fid. a week the Melbourne unemployed
were refusing 4s. a day. Of course, his lordship
sympathises with the chain-makers; he’s one of
them.
“ If I were a Canadian, or a Victorian, or
a New South Wales man, or Queenslander, or
New Zealander, I would take good care, as far as
I was concerned, that my voice should never go in
favour of the policy of the old country as far as
that was concerned.” —John Bright on Imperial
Federation.
The N.S.W. “Freetrade” Government
has consented to call for fresh tenders for the con-
struction, in the colony, of 50 railway locomotives;
a couple of the “ Freetraders ” who sit behind
the Premier as representatives of Balmain
threaten to resign should the work be done out-
side the country !
Providence strives not always with the
ungodly, neither do the wicked prosper for aye.
Some Chinese gardeners have been robbed of £3O
at .Brunswick (Vic.). Had this not happened, the
colony would have been robbed of 30 red, golden
sovereigns, and the Chinese Empire would have
been the richer for that same.
The Victorian land-tax, which was intro-
duced by the Berry Ministry of 1877, falls now
upon 858 persons holding large landed estates. It
brings in, on the average, £125,000 a year. The
-858 persons hold 1063 estates, and the tax is pay-
able half-yearly. Sir W. J. Clarke has, at these
periods, to write a big cheque.
There is a very earnest feeling in the Vic
torian Ministry as to a reciprocal treaty between
the Cabbage Garden and Queensland. The
£5,000,000 spent by the South in Northern sugar
at MTlwraith’s invitation, five years ago, has
been more or less damned, partly by Griffith, and
partly by the beetroot competition.
Last year’s returns of departures and
arrivals in N.S. Wales and Victoria showed that
the Freetrade colony lost 939 of her population to
her Protectionist neighbour, and by February,
1888, the exodus from the land of imported shoddy
increased to such an extent that N.S. Wales lost
1655 people to Victoria in that month alone. Yet
all last year Parkes and Wise and Uncle Abigail
were travelling on an elaborate taradiddle about
the constant flow of Victorians into N.S.W.
These things are calculated to make even Ananias
feel tired.
Abigail condemns the system by which
“ the largest share of money goes into the pockets
of speculators and he looks forward to some means
by which the working miners may in the future
participate to a greater extent in the wealth which
their perseverance has been the prime factor in
developing.” This is very nice of “Uncle”
Abigail. The inference, of course, is that the
Australian Banking Company, of which he is a
director, will in future divide its profits with the
borrowers whom it sells up, and declare a dividend
to the widow whom it fires into the street.
We in Australia settle on the land, engage
in commerce, make everything desirable and valu-
able, and the absentee reaps the fruit of our
labours. We extend to his property police-pro-
tection, we allow him to pocket the unearned
increment and we charge him nothing for it.
England, however, levies an indirect tax on our
country and takes a portion of that taxation that
we should put into our own Treasury. In a recent
English appeal case it was decided that a man was
not liable to pay income-tax upon the whole profits
of his Australian business, but “only on such por-
tion of them as is actually remitted home to him.”
They tax us; we don’t tax them.
About a year ago a deputation from the
original Anti-Chinese League waited on General
Wong Yung Ho and Consul Bung Hi, and told
them very plainly that they were not wanted in
Australia, and that they’d better “git ” and take
their countrymen with them. On the day follow-
ing the Sydney D.T. and S.M. Herald stated, in
sub-leaders, that they hoped the Imperial ambas-
sadors from the great and powerful Empire of
China would not think the deputation in any way
represented the people of Australia, but only a
few stragglers who wished to see their names in
print, and for political purposes of their own.
Now, who so loud against Celestia as the D.T., and
who so wily as the sapient Herald ?
Every year it, becomes more apparent that
Victoria is under a Family Party form of govern-
ment. Service and Graham Berry retired tem-
porarily in favour of Gillies and Deakin—the
bandy-legged apostate with the blue eyes drawing
an augmented salary, meanwhile, as Agent-Gene-
ral in London. Presently—very presently
Duncan Gillies will change places with Berry,
while he and James Service proceed to be as they
were, Deakin, then odd man, will clutch what
he can until his hour for making bunkum “ repre-
sentations ” to Her Majesty’s advisers arrives, by
which time the leading Ministerial billets will have
come to be looked upon as vested in the syndicate.
They will bequeath them to their heirs and assig-
nees, along with the Divine Right of gettingmade
K.C.M.G. A mis-termed Opposition will enjoy
full liberty to push along its little private jobs in
return for keeping its tongue in its cheek, and a
handful of left-out-in-the-cold nobodies will howl
in impotent wrath. That’s the political forecast
for Victoria.


Home Rule versus Rome Rule.
“The Pope has issued a circular to the Irish Bishops condemning the Plan of Campaign and the system of boycotting and instructing that his interdiction of such methods should be read from every K.C. altar n Ireland.”— Recent Cablegram


if
//e ScmeW //er L/ttle M/iyS ,
Tou/fty 7 f er *
/*<*, /* I Cat/ recaryact.
*Jy"
nk ? * ./Jy*? ty-C”'" “7^
CuPEit'es &i?c/ 7/p-fy. ofc/yyys Erc/y f-oT
ftyort't) ci cOte-k <a ipcC /7>e.y ' Siegersect ty
7Jj u<j>fi/ y TS/poufcf <Jc<-y s<t CJcl 3 - >cl e>-
fo/tw/Al 7>Af?Ty - AfcZf, facfoyo 'fee-#* "V e
*%*■? > V /* *> iv/y y*v&y a 7 f
' JsjfX'CAH. //**&? “yy ? /„<Zoy, a '?y
C*Ar*f Mftr« &?&*+ **/
t«,7Z,<xpcr /o tef your tort-oy **° r Ar '
I Cou>jTry tYj UTj ’t' r / /puny Ctn A * c *7 y /f7C
f 7Z / 7 /y'ffo Z cf,of ay $“7 / /?
/t 7 .*c~r- y*-'
a r v Z '9 »//?</ f _
"V'lT
Z./rrlS' A-T A/AfiJC-Y -
lye.cC *S- /Ye.td Me.pt' e ''Zt-cy-//
Cfu-oC /*? o ie/ - You. ZCcn pef //
ov'et-yur- ( Zf/ Zfup c? 2y y
you, = JT cfopf-£)c'.y/'7Z
‘p O fix/ple*- cfop f~ O /or '
Z~ pe.Yc*r y-eff~ -f ° rp cpp
f//C e. /fk *je.*? 6er <*■ <*«-p «. v w
/ /ifus rTZycf fy e-*c-J cZptt-/*
J &
THE ROMAN CATHOLICS AND
BISHOP BAR BY.
Addressing the large mr.d'.ing in St. llarv’s
Cathedral last Bight, Mr. Dalle;, in the course
of aD eloquent speech, alluded to the receut
departnre of the Plight Rev. Dr. Barr;, the
Primate of the Church of England. Mr. Dailey,
speaking m the name of the Roman Catholic
body, said they deeply sympathised with their
Anglican brethien to the loss—and he hoped
and devoutly prayed it was ,but a temporary
one —which had been sustained in the depar-
ture of the able, cultured, laborious and
most earnest yuan who presided over and
adorned the Anglican Cbhrcb in this city.
These reruarM were received with _ loud ap-
plause.
S/bcLKJ Ccl cr y J'To/&h
~ ' '■*■ ~ , / 'r/Z'rj 4as oeep
yV/a rye Ceyf/yf? rye? S’*/ ?
V °f £syM/*rVe *?*■*> Col ? ?l G 4
**/- //'coou.tct S^ e/j? rfi>a) */ 7sa /' 4~>?cS Cap te/**?*/ " '/ <?'*
ay aof C./(Z— <3 7~C-
Gjo + Z/y foryjfor/er J)a JZey , " rferc, Tfere c/opffry c<ay "Tore.
Uis// aye/ 7e cjooc/ you >yay Jen Z "’l
ajp >So Op Q c/ay fo />
Things in General.


The troubles that never come are the gratest we have
to bear. Skill and science has done much to lessen actual
or anticipated labors and annoyances. Oyster Scollops.
Ramakins, Groton Moulds, Cullenders, Vegetable Drainers
Divided Vegetable Dishes, Pie Cups, Saucepans, and other
little useful things in Crockery, opened this week at
Bray Bros , 402 and 404 George Street. *
FRECKLE
“To Mr. Clements. Sir,—l am
glad to inform you that your
Frecklebane removed all my sister’s and my own
Freckles in three applications.” Yours truly. R. J. Russell,
Maria-street, Camdenville. Feecklebanf. is sent Dost free
for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or P. 0.0. by F. M. Clements
141 King-street, Newtown, N.S.W.
Character by Hand-writing.— Prof essor Alcott, Graphi-
ologist, will, on receipt of sample and Is. stamps, forward
full clearly defined character of the writer, answer
questions, and recommend the most suitable occupation
without extra charge.—Address, Prof. Hugh Alcott,
G.P.0., Sydney.
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED'
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention Is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru*
Bients: —
DEEEL and LECHLEiTER MS,
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTET a Co, AMERICAN OROANS.
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort- '
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtaine Elsewhere*
Hustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers a r e requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W.H. PALiNG &GO., Ltd
356 GEORGE STREET, three Doors from G.P.G,
Society
A large party once visited one of the Go-
vernment lunatic asylums near Sydney, and had a
look at the inmates. One of the visitors was
much struck by the quiet, restful appearance of
things, and he remarked the same to a stranger—
an intelligent, affable-looking stranger —who was
standing by. “ Yes,” the stranger said, “things
are very quiet, but there are some curious charac-
ters here. Now, look at that man over there,
walking about—he is a most extraordinary indi-
vidual. “Indeed,” said the visitor, “how so?”
“Well,” said the stranger, “he says he is the son
of Napoleon Bonaparte, and I know he can’t be,
because I haven’t any children that age !”
* * •
The tangled legal system of the beloved
mother country has been brought up with a shock
against the bustle, and at latest advices the
elaborate combination that the ladies sit down
upon had got so badly tied in a knot along with
the statutes that it was questionable if the two
would ever be sorted out again. An enterprising
gentleman of great research, it appears, wanted
to protest against the infringement of a patent
for a new and complicated contrivance shaped
like half a sheep, which he had invented, and
he hired an expensive barrister to point out that
an unprincipled firm which had probably been
found on a doorstep in early life was selling an
inferior erection which outwardly resembled a
part of a wheelbarrow gone mad, and passing it
off as his manufacture. He handed up his bustle
to the Chief Justice and prayed for an injunction,
and the Judge held it upside down and looked
solemnly into the recesses of it to see if there
were any points about it which the legal mind
could catch hold of. The defendant also passed
up his bustle and the Bench regarded it prayer-
fully, inwardly trusting that it wasn’t loaded.
Then the lawyers on each side waved bustles
above their heads with the tapes flying and
alluded earnestly to the British Constitution, and
each side called lady witnesses who had the rival
bustles on, and who stood with their backs to the
Bench in order to show the effect. The case was
then adjourned for three weeks.
• •
When the s.s. Oroya arrived at Williams-
town a few days ago there was a heavy storm in
the Customs department, and a meeting was held
for enquiry and testimony. The enquiry was on
one side and the testimony on the other, and in
almost every case the testimony came off second
best. The trouble began with a plump, smiling
creature who melted into an April shower of tears
when a nasty man insisted on examining her box,
but when the horrid person discovered a quantity
of silks and jewellery at the bottom of the vessel
of clothes she braced herself up and said they
were only a present for a friend. The hustler for
a hard-hearted department replied that that didn’t
matter at all and levied the ad valorem duty, and
the lady dried her eyes and declared that the
Government was a brute. Next a simple-looking
curate tried to get through with a pile of sacra-
mental plate artfully concealed among his shirts,
but the man who scrambled for the revenue dis-
covered the deposit and demanded 20 per cent.
The man of prayer wrestled with him earnestly
on this point and asked where be expected to
go to when he died, but the landing waiter
only sniffed at this appeal. Then the Jordan
head-light said that the plate was going to Tas-
mania for service upon the altar, and asked if they
proposed to desecrate the tabernacle by levying an
earthly tax upon it after the manner of the
heathen. They said they did, and the curate paid
up and stated that they would have their reward
in a future state. Just then a tall and affable
person, with the outward aspect of a British duke,
was seen stealing gently ashore with a large
weed in his mouth and a consignment of the same
under his arm. He was pursued with velocity,
and, being interrogated, he took the cigar out of
his mouth and said that he didn’t know what the
package contained as he didn’t smoke them, and,
anyhow, they weren’t for his own use, and he
wasn’t responsible, and with that he dropped the
heap on to the collector’s soft corn and left. About
18 other people —mostly ladies—got into trouble
over other little matters, and they nearly all cried
and said they wouldn’t do it any more. But weep-
ing at a department is a reckless squandering of
pathos, and they had to pay up to the very last
woman, and then they glared at a female who
hadn’t tried to smuggle anything, and denounced
her as a “cat.”
* * *
Time hangs heavy on the fair hands of the
girls down at Narracan, Gippsland, and a few
days back four youngs thing thought to relieve the
monotony of existence by going to meet a con-
tractor’s train bearing ballast for the new railway
line. The train was a few hours late, and when
the maidens were aweary with watching they set
fire to a fallen tree, with a view to starting a fresh
topic of conversation. It burnt uncommonly
well, did the tree. The girls skipped on and off
the trunk in giddy glee, trying vffio could get
nearest to the flames without being singed. Then
the train was heard approaching with a melan-
choly puff, and the girls bolted off to see if the
engine-driver was nice-looking. When they were
just out of range the tree exploded with a great
bang because it contained in its innermost recess a
large barrel of blasting-powder. If the pretty
little creatures had stayed two more minutes there
would have been nought now remaining of them
save certain wire frameworks, but as they merely
stood afar off and giggled at the fun, there is
positively no moral to this narrative.
• * *
" There will tea garden party instead of a
birthday ball at the Queensland Government
House this year. Garden parties are very
economical.*
* \ * *
Miss Minnie Doherty, who runs a little
pub. at Port Fairy (Vic.), got fined £5 for
keeping the back door ajar on Sunday. The
natives arose in a heap on behalf of Minnie and re-
presen ted,to the Governor-in-Council that she is a
real nice girl and the sole support of several dozen
relatives. Minnie’s fine was accordingly reduced
to five “bob,” and the whole township entered
upon a philanthropic burst of hilariousness for
the good of the house.
* * *
The Woman’s Suffrage Society of Mel-
bourne recently received a guinea donation from a
male sympathiser. He wrote from a small up-
country town and asked that the receipt might be
forwarded to a business address, because his
missus would make a disturbance if she knew he
had been spending his money on such foolishness.
The solemn truth of that yarn helps to explain
why the Society is just about dying from natural
causes.
* * *
This is how a wealthy German squatter, in
a southern townshij) of N.S.W. introduced his
wife and stepdaughter to a lady friend : “ My
wife, Mrs. So-and-so; my daughter also, Mrs. So-
and-so, by L .”
* •
A Tasmanian wife has, within 11 months,
blessed her husband with five infants. He would
go away on a holiday but she has brothers all
over the colony. He now wants the Government
to subsidize his household.
* * •»
A superior male creature writes to Bris-
bane Courier to advocate the formation of a
military corps composed of gentlemen of fixed
qualification. Also he sizes up the qualification
of the gentlemen by —“ their ability to keep a
horse. ”
• • •
“ I understand you are a Futurist,
madam,” said he, politely raising his hat to the
E. News prophetess. She bowed a solemn affirma-
tive and he entered. In about a quarter of an
BBISBANE THEOLOGY.
ETHEL: “MAMMY!”
MAMMA : YES, DEAR.”
ETHEL: “I KNOW WHERE HELL IS!”
MAMMA : “WHY, WHERE, CHILD?”
ETHEL: “UP AT TOWNSVILLE, MAMMY! I HEARD DADDY SAY SO TO
MR. SMITH!”
hour he came out again, the prophetess following
him to the door. “It will be ss. for having told
your future,” she said. “Ah,” he said, placidly
contemplating the horizon, “ ss. and—l believe
you said you were a Futurist?” “Certainly,
sir.” “ Ah, then there are two of us—this is
delightful,” he exclaimed, .smilingly. “ I also am
a Futurist. You may expect me here when the
flowers begin to bloom.” And bowing again
he walked airily away into the sorrowful Never-
more.
• • •
A marriage-liccnce was recently returned
with the endorsement, “ She wouldn’t have me.”
* * *
At a certain house in Redfern, Sydney, no
Chinaman will deal. The housewife, anxious to
know why she had been neglected, asked a civilised
John, who blandly informed her that certain
hieroglyphics on her door meant that she owed a
score to a Chinaman who could not collect his
money.
* • •
The parson tells people that they should
marry for love, and yet he marries for money.
* * *
A Queensland paper says girls are wanted
in that colony. This strikes us with the belief
that Queensland is just as bad as the rest of Aus-
tralia.
* # *
Premier Crispi, of Italy, has resolved to
tax only “ unseen articles of female attire,” and
to let the visible portions of .a lady’s pretty things
go free. Consequently, .we presume, a good
many articles which were formerly concealed will
now be worn outside, and if this can’t be done in
every case there will be a revolution in dress so
that a little of everything will be exposed to view.
* * *
Old Man (at the head of the stairs) ;
“Hasn’t that young man gone yet, Clara?”
Daughter : “No, papa; are we disturbing you?”
Old Man : “ Yes; the silence down there is most
oppressive.”
* * *
Mary : “George, if I die, promise me one
thing.” George : “What is it, Mary?” Mary :
“ That you will marry Emma Wilkins.” George :
“ Why, I thought you hated her, Mary.” Mary :
“ I do, George. I want to get even with her.”
* * *
A little Noose “ad.” :
f : LAIKVOYANT.—Madame gives the most re-
liable information on Business, Love, or Law-
suits. Apply, &c. Hours, 10 to 7.
As Madame seems to be in rather a com-
prehensive line of business, perhaps she could
kindly tell the writer where he went last night
after he lost consciousness, and how it came to
pass that when he fell asleep along with a police-
man in Hunter-street, Sydney, en route for Pad-
dington he should wake up to find himself stand-
ing on his head in a barrel in a back yard at Red-
fern howling a comic song through the bunghole.
Also she might kindly let him know where he got
the umbrella which he found in his possession, and
how it came to pass that though he fell asleep
wearing a new hat marked “Thomas B. Jones,”
he should have awakened with an old one marked
“ Henry Brown.” An explanation of these things
will oblige.
• • •
How to treat a fellow who assaults his
wife with intent to maim and disfigure her is a
question which Judge Kerford has answered with
“ 15 years’ hard labour, the first year to be passed
in irons.” The Law assumes that the prisoner
will emerge from captivity with a chastened heart
in Anno Domini 1903, and fall upon the neck of
his lawful wife. And if his lone wife makes eyes
at any other man in the meantime, she will be a
bad, bad woman, says the Law.
• * *
When a Governor’s Lady has exhausted
the joys of an Afternoon Reception, the band
plays “God Save the Queen,” upon which hint
her feminine adorers promptly “clear.” The
National Anthem, as at other times and places,
signifies that the show is burst up.
* * *
They say that the old Marquis of Nor-
manby is thinking quite seriously about Essie
Jenyns. Twice within a week that distinguished
widower frisked into the vice-regal box at Mel-
bourne Bijou.
# * *
The Melbourne undertaking industry has
been agitated to its very vitals by a melancholy-
looking young man with a river in his eye, who
wears the garb of woe and wishes to bury his
deceased brother. In the first agony of bereave-
ment this young man, it appears, went to every
coffin-factory in the city and ordered a slap-up
box, with brass handles and inscribed plate, to be
sent to Lillydale by train. In most instances he
pleaded hard for a reduction on the price of the
hallowed casket and so deeply touched the under-
takers’ hearts that they knocked off 10 per cent,
and chucked in a private prayer for the corpse’s
soul. Then the suffering survivor endeavoured to
stifle his emotion by writing a cheque in excess
of the bill, and taking the balance in cash.
The second scene in this domestic drama is
laid at Prince’s Bridge Station, where four
undertakers, each armed with a coffin, stood
waiting for the Lillydale train. They winked
waggishly at each other, and remarked that the
winter trade was opening brisk, but just then a
porter said he supposed there was an epidemic
down the line, became lie had already sent off a
coffin or two that morning. A strange foreboding
of sorrow in store stole over the company, and
when they found that the four orders tallied they
fell upon their respective coffin-lids and wept
bitterly. At time of writing the perpetrator of
this gruesome joke was being anxiously enquired
for by the firms who cashed the cheques. His bank-
account is a myth, and several first-class coffins
are being offered to tile public at sale prices. The
deceased brother’s funeral is indefinitely post-
poned.
* * *
The boys of Ormond College, Melbourne;
have decided that the adoption of the medical pro-
fession by women is a grave error. When the
youngsters are old enough to marry, and find a
better-looking man than themselves examining
the state of Popsywopsy’s pulse, it may dawn
upon them in an hour of jealousy that they were
verdant little prigs in the long ago.
* • *
Some reading competitions at Melbourne
Juvenile Exhibition were fixed up in an innocent,
happy-go-lucky style, without thought for the
morrow or Mrs. Grundy. A blushing maid of 14
was set to read the trial from “ Pickwick,” and
when she arrived at the point where Mrs. Clup-
pins prognosticates an early addition to her family
there came a wild cry of horror from a lot of old
gentlemen, and the maid of 14 was pulled up
short. In future, a jury of sassiety matrons will
pick out passages for the maidens to worry
through, and the Age correspondent suggests the
“ Leisure Hour ” as an innocious work.
# * *
Chief J ustice Higinbotham has been
baited into throwing up his position as president
of the Melbourne Exhibition Commission, to the
great relief of Governor Loch and the “ National
Anthem ” crowd. For a long time past sassiety
has been shaking its perfumed locks ( not Sir
and lady) when Higinbotham’s name was men-
tioned, and expressing doubt about his political
‘ ‘ fitness ” to play leading part in the grand inau-
gural grovel. 11 is resignation removes a heavy
load from sassiety's alabaster chest,, for now a
full-blown Imperialist—Sir James M‘Bain, per-
haps—will play Mokanna, and the Empire and
Queen Victoria will be shoved well to the front.
* » *
Mr. Gosclien, Chancellor of the British
Exchequer, says
It is a curious psychological fact that no conscience
money has ever been known to be paid by a woman.
Of course it hasn’t. Women are too sensible to go
in for reckless extravagance of that kind while a
common necessary of life, like a decent Parisian
bonnet, is not to be bought for less than a couple
of guineas.
* * *
Miss Helen Hart, of Victoria, the “sweet
gushing child of nature” who wears bob-curls and
spurns' the hollow bustle, has come to the surface
again with another grievance. Helen is a proud,
cold female, and she’s got a sphere; she stumps
the country in the Women’s Rights interest, and
holds forth in a loud voice on electoral reform,
man’s tyranny, measles in young children, female
physicians, bloomer pants, cold feet, and many
other philosophical subjects, at every little be-
nighted township where she can induce the inhabi-
tants to pay a shilling to come into a. barn. She
is at present stranded at Yarrawonga ( Vic.), and,
presumedly, camped.under a hedge, for she wrote
a pathetic letter to the local paper a few days
back, complaining that the mankind of the district,
appalled at her gospel, had all refused to rent her
a bed.
• *
Why are the seats in all public places and
vehicles adapted to themeasureof the average man,
so that three-fourths of the women must sit on the
edge, or with their feet dangling, or barely reach-
ing the floor with their toes ? It seems to be one
of the survivals of the masculine pretensions that
never suspected, until lately, but that all things,
women included, were made solely for the male
creature’s convenience. It is not because seats an
inch or two lower would be any less comfortable
to his lordship, but simply because it never came
into his lordship’s head to think of anybody else’s
comfort in the matter. Every row of feminine
feet swinging from the bench of a street-car sug-
gests the sensation of congested blood-vessels and
uneasy muscles.


When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-whitr Patent
Roll's!* Floor, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whits Patsnt Rot.t.ku Flour is the
best in the market
[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 9, 1888.
Mf dkar Moorabinda, —The P. and 0., Orient, and
other A nglo- Austral ian liners are certainly fine vessels
and almost perfect But they have one grave fault.
They carry away all our wealthy nobodies, and society
accordingly is the loser- in a festive sense. Those who
leave us, by the way, are frequently much worried on
board by the limit to cabin luggage, and the accompany-
ing difficulty of making a fresh appearance frequently on
a cruelly limited wardrobe. A splendid plan is to have a
dark serge (say) dress made with a-coat. With this one
can have any number almost of fine serge vests—all of a dif-
ferent hue—that brighten one up wonderfully. Some
people object to the coats open over the vests because of
the difficulty experienced in getting the coat to sit. Bu t
if two narrow' slits are left in the under- arm seam, one
just below the arm and the next at the exact w'aist of the
vest, tapes can go through and fasten the jacket in till it
sits “ like a broody hen.” Talking of travellers reminds
me that Louise Davenport came to Sydney by the Mari-
posa last trip. She is still Mrs. W. E. Sheridan, and is
quietly indignant, though at the same time rather
amused, at those unkind canards about her speedy second
marriage, which were rife at one time. Amy Sherwin
came by the Mariposa also, accompanied by several of the
members of her opera company. Miss Sherwin went
straight over to Melbourne, w'here she purposes opening
in grand opera shortly.
A member of the Sydney Hunt Club tells me they are
going to reduce full members’ subscriptions to three
guineas, because the Club have a surplus and want to
encourage the love of hunting in the Australian breast. I
don’t think hunting a la John Bull will ever be more than
a pilgrim and a stranger on our soil. The climate is
against us, and our own traditional inertia. At one of
the meets last season, a “ cornstalk on a strapping,
game-looking hunter—sat all of a bunch, listlessly yawn-
ing, until the start! Fancy an English huntsman going
about gaping before a run ! I have been on English hunt-
ing fields, and I know their spirit thoroughly ; enough
that you don’t feel much like yawning at any time. Even
did you, the contagious enthusiasm of the riders and their
horse 3 would, I am sure, prevent you from getting -half-
hearted over the sport.
In all the batch of marriages that have entertained us
lately, there w'asn’t one bridal gown suitable for a w'edding
happening when the dear, sweet chrysanthemums an-
nounce that winter is near, and that the “shortest day ”
is almost daw’ning already. But I read the other day of a
very “swagger” w'edding-frock for cold weather. ’Twas
of white cloth, pointed at the edge of the draperies and
richly embroidered with silver and pearls ! There s a
soul-satisfying sort of a costume to go and change your
name in when rheumatism is a power in the land !
If I were to ask any “colonial” —“What do you con-
sider our chief plague ?” he wrnuld instantly reply, “ Rab-
bits.” I confess poor little bunny is rather a bad
character, but he isn’t our worst. / consider that the
average Australian “lady writer” for the newspapers is
more fatal to us than even long-ears. I mean for the
accounts she sends of the state of our labour market to
the work-hungry women of England. In a recent English
daily she solemnly announces that there is absolutely
a wail of longing going up all over our land for—nursery-
governesses ! Nowq did you ever hear such a thing !
Everybody knows that what we pine for is strong and in-
dustrious servant-girls who are faithful to their by no
means degrading duty. We are squeaking out for
feminine 'manual labour if w T e are squeaking at all, but
we don’t want any more semi-educated beings called
“ nursery governesses ” who take less than a servant-girl
would look at to maintain the shadow of a “gentility”
that isn’t worth having! Australia is overrun with
“ nursery governesses ” —our State schools turn them out
by the gross monthly—and to encourage their immigration
is worse than senseless—it is wicked !
There is in England just now quite a rage amongst the
women for having their posture-photos taken with low-
cut dresses on—or off. Alas ! that it should not be con-
fined to the land of “rosbif!” In Sydney the girls get
photographed on the slightest provocation with nothing—
or next to nothing—on. Tw'o sisters—whose full-length
photo, adorns the walls of a leading Sydney studio—are
shamelessly dccollette in black net, w'hich shows up their
“ white nudity ” A merveille, whilst demi-bodiced divini-
ties who scintillate in our society hang round and about
them leering, like second-rate actresses, at space. And
strangers steal in and ogle the revealed charms or scrag
of Adeline de Toorak or Maude de Potts Point before
passing on to gaze at the photographed tights and simper
of a “ burlesque” angel! Goodness me ! what must men
think of us sometimes ! Why should evening dress mean
such shocking things ! As Fred saj's, what the majority
of women bare themselves for is a deep and awful
mystery ! Most of them are scrags with knobs prominent
enough to hang a hat on. There are about a round dozen
of women in Sydney - who have really pretty busts, and
they are—— well you'll know them by the cut of their
bodices, which are mainly waistbands. By-the-by, I
wonder whether the confirmed wearer of the conventional
sleeveless ball-dress ever reflects on the fact that arms
that look white at the start rapidly grow crimson with
exercise? From the shoulder to the elbow is the most
treacherous part of our poor frames. With heat it some-
times turns crimson, and then if we happen to be draped
in white the effect is something like that of two radishes
sticking out of a snowball, and is not beautiful to the Eye
of Man, which is what we try to charm every time. Plump
women suffer dreadfully over this, but slender ones gener-
ally keep white right through. There’s a comfort in being
“ sketchy” sometimes.
Last week, at St. Paul's, Burwood, the Rev. 0. F.
Garnsey—high priest of that haunt of mystic ritual and
white-robed acolytes—Christchurch, wedded Miss Walker,
daughter of the late philanthropic Thomas Walker,
of Concord. The wedding was elegant and fashion-
able, and created quite a stir in the neighbourhood. I
hope Miss Walker will be as happy as is possible in a world
where steam-trams and wooden blooks abound. She is
very kind-hearted, and in her prosperity did not forget
her friends. Another wedding is that of well-known Tom
Ivory’s seoond daughter with Mr. J. Brown, jun., of
Jerry’s Plains. The wedding was a quiet one—the bride
Wearing fawn-colour cashmere, and having only three
bridesmaids, who were apparalled in fawn of a slightly
deeper shade. No formal honeymoon, the “happy
couple” going straight for Jerry’s Plains by way of Single-
ton.
On Wednesday, June 13th, that usually excessively en-
joyable annual festivity, St. Vincent’s Hospital annual
ball, is going to happen. To dance anyhow is to do well,
but to dance in aid of human suffering is to do better,
therefore I always go. The deduction is obvious, isn’t it ?
Speaking of hospitals, I know a little romance about a
Sydney hospital ministering angel that leaves Chateau-
briand a bad second. She had her photograph taken, and
sent a copy to a dear friend in Queensland. The dear
friend—in her turn —showed it to a wealthy, unattached
man, who fell heels over head in love with it or her.
Straightway he sought the original—coming by rail in the
greatest haste, lest some mean rival might snatch her up
before he arrived. Arrived, he found, alas ! that his un-
known seraph had gone to the City of the Exhibition for
a holiday. But Love was not to be baulked, even if he
had to travel over the entire Continent. Over to. Mel-
bourne, per express, went he, met his odd infatuation,
and, after a few days’ engagement, they were married !
The race is pulled and Kemp is champion of the world.
Those who went up the river on Saturday had a good time
going, but the return was as dull as the catechism. I
wish both could have won, for I like Hanlan. He was at
an afternoon dance a long while ago on board the Iro-
quois, the American warship, and he was introduced to
me. He is lively and agreeable to talk to—not a bit like
Beach, whose every word is a narcotic. Kemp is a rather
handsome fellow—not so pretty as Hanlan, you know, but
he is very manly-looking and has only one weak point
about him —he has very big toes, which you could actually
see from the bank as he rowed by in the proud hour of
victory.
I notice that the blouse or Garibaldi bodices find great
favour here ih Sydney. One I saw in King-street the
other morning was made of crimson cloth finely smocked
with gold thread, and was worn with a dark invisible-
green underskirt. These bodices are very stylish, and
look best upon those whom neither nature nor art has
endowed with a 34-inch bust and a 19-inch waist-measure.
Muffs made of the material of one’s dress will be worn
this winter, or of plush or velvet of the same shade.
They may be trimmed with feathers, birds, bows, or any-
thing, and offer a fine field for the amateur dressmaker
to produce “ an effect ” with. In England they wear
their tea-gowns at home dinners, and so dine comfort-
ably—at least whenever they are en famille, superb
toilettes being the rule still for formal dinner parties.
One dinner dress was in white satin and lace and watered
silk. The train was in watered silk looped back very far
from side panels in flat folds of satin. These parted in
front over a narrow-pointed skirt-front in pearl em-
broidery, and had wide curved ruffles of point-lace up the
left side. At the right was a series of bows in narrow-
watered ribbon having long ends. The corsage was in
satin, with a white frontage.in pearl embroidery finished
with a pearl fringe. The sleeves were white silk net-
work closely worked with pearls—spray of diamonds in
the hair, diamond earrings and brooch completed this
pure and exquisitely recherche costume.
There has been, and is, a great display of angry pas-
sions at a Sydney Anglican city church decidedly Low in
its ritual, whose ministering father has deserted it for
other fields. For years one curate (Mr. C.) helped to dis-
pense salvation. Then another came (Mr. S.), and, on
the withdrawal of the chief, Mr. S. grasped the helm, and
caused to be erected a marble tablet which set forth some
statements in regard to the Church, and concluded with
his old pastor’s name as incumbent of the pile, and be-
neath —“Mr. S., curate.” Now, as Mr. C. had been re-
ceiving slippers and embroidered braces years before S.
put in an appearance, he naturally felt rather aggrieved
at his name being omitted, so he, it is alleged, visited a
marble-carver, and had his baptismal added. Mr. S.,
coming into church with his eye meditatively fixed on
glory, espied the addendum, and promptly had the
despised name of C. erased from the shimmering marble.
When C. came in and saw the alteration, he left the sanc-
tuary, which he hasn’t entered since, and won’t until his
name is put in with all honours. Meanwhile, the tablet
remains in the church with the scratching-out still on it,
and S. weekly preaches lovely sermons on all sorts of
things.
A certain very “ ginger” politician has, I notice, hit on
the wrong antidote to his warm locks. He wears a scarlet
flower of the most flaring tone in his button-hole, having
heard, I suppose, that if you have a red top-knot, you
should adopt a still more redder tint, and so make your
hairlook paler. But “Ginger,’’poordear, seeks in vain after
modification !—cannot find a blossom gorgeous enough to
outrival him ! That “ burning bush” of his reduces even
the flaming hybiscus to a dull brown ; and even did he—
forced by the exigencies of the situation—wear a bunch of
carrots in his hat, those brilliant vegetables would, 1 am
positive, turn out a soft and delicate shell-pink ! So, you
see, some people wear scarlet geraniums to take the red
out of their hair; other people only wear their hair to
take the colour out of their scarlet geraniums.
Have you heard about the successful spiritualistic
seance given by a certain Sydney gentleman at his private
house the other evening ? The room was dim, the audi-
ence was palpitating with the mysteriousness of the un-
comeatable, ladies clung to one another or somebody else
in a thrill of nervous apprehension, and above it all mur-
mured the medium’s voice ordering the spirits to send
down rain immediately, if not sooner. A breathless
silence ensued, and then, sure enough, came down tb~
“spirituous” dew falling gently in the semi-darkness.
There never was such a successful meeting. Six became
confirmed Spiritualists, and Mr. is to be congratu-
lated upon the fact that his mischievous groom, who had
stationed himself at the window with a fine-rosed hose,
let the shower down in the very “ nick of time,” as they
say.
In England they are wearing their watches set in the
handles of their parasols. Watch-chains are now never
seen, and watch-pockets are equally out of date. Leather
bracelets enjoyed a brief popularity, but these are now
discovered to be clumsy, and the well-dressed English]
woman wears her “ enemy ” in the pretty top of her
en tout cas.
Lord and Lady Carington are expected to return from
historic Norfolk about next Saturday week.
What an exoiting day and night Saturday was ! The
boat-race in the afternoon and then the “Dorothy”
premiere. Nellie Stewart was divine, but is not suffi-
ciently prominent to suit me, for I require Nellie to be
very much en evidence when we haven’t seen her for
years. I don’t wonder at So-and-So and you know who
losing their heads and hearts through Nellie. If I were a
man I should. As it is, I admire her from afar off—
always afar off, for women don’t care for other women’s
homage, somehow. The “Dorothy” music is, as you
snow, sweetly pretty and as dainty as a butterfly alight
ing on a rose. Kemp and Hanlan went to Her Majesty’s
and viewed the ascension of Marguerite by means of those
woolly-winged angels, on Saturday night.
People want to know why our sweet girl tennis-players
with assorted hairs (their own or otherwise) don’t all wear
either dark or pale blue ? Certainly at the recent tourna-
ment the players looked like patchwork, and the general
aspect of the field was spoilt, but 1 know why our girls
won’t all dress alike !
For while some girls are very fair,
And dressed in blue are simply charming,
Blue on a girl with darkish hair
Looks, well, a trifle just, alarming !
Blue also has a fearfully yellowing effect on some com-
plexions.
Miss Von Finkelstein is a passenger by the Orizaba,
which arrived at Albany on Saturday. Miss Finkelstein
lectures on Eastern maimers and - customs, and has asso-
ciated with her several bona-fide Bedouins of the desert,
who, with her, convert the platform into an encampment,
and demonstrate such native and ancient customs as
washing the feet of the old, &c. Miss F. appears in regu-
lar Eastern “toggery”—sequins, wristlets, and even
anklets, I believe. She has just finished a highly success-
ful tour through Great Britain. By-the-bye, Major H. C.
Dane, the American lecturer, is just now in Sydney, but
he isn’t on the war-path.
There isn’t much going on socially in Sydney—in fact,
there’ nothing at all i Mr. Clarke, the Minister of Jus-
tice, gave a dry-as-dust legal and Ministerial dinner-party
the other evening, at which the Premier wasn’t present.
Speaking of Sir Henry, I have an ivory ring in my posses-
sion which my old nurse bought from him ages ago—it
being a piece of his very own handiwork ! But she
didn’t buy it to enthuse over. She got it for my sister
to cut her teeth on. Now, of course, it’s a “ curio,”
and I often think of my little ivory gum-ring when I view
Sir Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G., and all the rest of it swell-
ing round in his glory as Premier of “ Australia.” There
have been one or two weddings, but nothing can make
the present season a gay one.
| JMost of our best actors are very negligent of details.
In the “ Bachelors,” now being played in Sydney, Charles
Lovelace writes on his shirt-cuff the name of the lady
whose beauty has fascinated him, and later on, when
some days have elapsed, he shows her the identical cuff
with the scrawl thereon as a proof of handwriting. The
inference is a very dreadful one—don’t you think so?
Yours affectionally, SAraio Smith.
[lnteresting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.
That brilliant musician, Frederic Cowen,
the Melbourne Exhibition cantata composer, is
Hebrew. His family name was once spelt Cohen.
Rev. Dr. Bromby is labouring hard in
Melbourne to obtain the political franchise for
women. The venerable doctor is about 80 and
is married to a lady of 22.
Not long ago Melbourne Argus waxed
wroth at English ignorance of Australia. The
Argus now speaks of “the quiet little town of
Oporto, Spain.” Oporto, Spain, is excellent.
“ Mr. Jos. Symes, the freethought lecturer,
has been prosecuted by the Melbourne Harbour
Trust Company for obstructing the Queen’s Wharf
on Sunday.” Rather, was not this prosecution for
obstructing the Queen’s Faith?
At the crowded and enthusiastic anti-
Chinese meeting, held in the Sydney Town Hall
the other night, resolutions were passed to the
effect that, at all hazards, a peremptory stop must
be put to the Chinese invasion.
He was a Jewish drummer, who travelled
for a big house, and sold small wares. Seated
comfortably in the train, he found beside him a
rather sedate-looking gentleman, with whom he
sought to converse, and after the manner of his
kind, began by telling what goods he sold. “ And
you, my friend,” he said, “vat ish your line?”
“Brains,” answered his sedate and would-be re-
tiring companion. “Ah ! brains, you say ? That
must be—nice. You garry no samples, eh ? ”
Extract from Protectionist Rose’s speech
at Bathurst: —
“ Now assuming that we buy in the cheapest and sell in
the dearest foreign market, what guarantee have we of a
permanency of buying in the cheapest ana selling in
the dearest market? There is none. We only have a
footing in the foreign market on sufferance, and it is
never under our control. Markets that are open to us to-
day may be partially closed against us to-morrow. War
may break out at any moment. A political crisis may
arise ; and at any moment we are liable to be cut off from
the foreign market. Then what would he their
position ? They would be entirely in the hands
of the importers, who could immediately take
advantage of their helplessness and raise the price 25 per
cent. But the question was did they—the masses of
Bathurst—really buy in the cheapest market ? No, they
did not. The importer buys m the cheapest market, and
the masses buy in the importers’ market. The importer
gets all the advantage of trading with cheap labour. He
traffics on the exchange pf production, and the masses
lose because foreign labour takes away the demand for
colonial labour.”
All famous characters have their coterie
of admirers and imitators, and when Crown Pro-
secutors and M.’sL.A. set an example the odds
are that the lesser lights will strive to copy them.
Apropos of which is the following. Tn a certain
Australian police-court, on a recent hot day, a
case came on for hearing in which the plaintiff
was a Jew and the defendant an Irishman, when
defendant’s attorney staggered majestically to his
feet and addressed the Bench thusly : “Yer war-
shup, ’wish to draw yer ’tention to ’xtrornry shir-
cumshtances this case. While I, yer warshup,
have f’ my client a Hebrew, me larned and highly
’shpectable frind on th’ opposite side has for his
(this ore rotunda) an eye-talian.” Having got
safely through this he slowly wagged his head
from side to side, and subsided ungracefully into
his seat. Somewhat later in the afternoon, when
the sun’s rays were still hotter and the attorney’s
condition had advanced from the jocular to the
bellicose, this was a sample of his eloquence:
“Yer warshup, I objict poshponemous, wash only
in tli’ yard shmoking me pipe. Here it is, yer
Warshup. Still ’light, and that scoundrel (point-
' .g the finger of scorn at the opposing attorney)
knew it. Whash that ? Yer didn’t ? It’s a lie,
yer Warshup, it’s a lie—it’s a damnable lie ; and
(this to his opponent) if yer shay ’tisn’t I’ll sit on
yer.” This, as he weighs at a moderate computa-
tion at least three and a half stone, while
the object of his wrath weighs about 10,
was sufficiently alarming, but no wise
daunted, the latter replied : “ All right, old
fellow, it’s not you speaking ; it’s the colonial
ale.” Whether scenes like this in an open court
are edifying is without doubt arguable, but -when
no notice is taken of similar ones in higher
assemblages what can the lower ones do but
submit ?
What is the whole duty of a bridegroom
when, after the wedding and the breakfast, he
finds himself alone with his bride in an empty
railway compartment ? One would imagine that
a few terms of endearment, and possibly an occa-
sional caress, would not be considered quite out of
place. This seems to have been the opinion of a
young lady who was married at Accrington,
England, the other day, to a Mr. John Smith.
The blushing bride had not been married before,
but she was naturally surprised and distressed by
the proceedings of her husband. They had scarcely
left Accrington when Mr. Smith settled him-
self in a corner, yawned once or twice, and fell
into deep slumber. It is possible that Mr. Smith
in repose is not a pleasing spectacle. It is possible
that Mrs. Smith was merely hurt by the stolidity
of his demeanour under conditions favourable to
cheerfulness, not to say enthusiasm. But it is
certain that, for one or both of these reasons, the
maiden slipped quietly out of the carriage at the
first station, leaving behind her only a slip of
paper attached to Mr. Smith’s coat-tail, and bear-
ing these words: “Tired of matrimony. Had
enough of it and gone home to my ma. Mary.”
Song of the Outcasts.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I listened through the music and the sounds
of revelry,
And all the hollow noises of that year of
Jubilee—
I heard beyond the cheering, and beyond
the trumpets’ blare,
The steady tramp of thousands that were
marching in the rear.
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
They seem to shake the air,
Those never-ceasing footsteps of the Out-
casts in the Rear.
I heard defiance ringing from the men of
rags and dirt,
I heard wan women singing that sad “ Song
of the Shirt,”
And o’er the sounds of menace, and the
moanings of despair,
I heard the steady tramping of their feet
along the rear !
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
Vibrating in the air—
They’re swelling fast, those footsteps of the
Army of the Rear !
I hate the wrongs I read about, I hate the
wrongs I see !
The tramping of that army sounds as music
unto me —
A music that is terrible, that frights the
anxious air,
Is beaten from the weary feet that tramp
along the rear.
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
In dogged, grim despair—
They have a goal, those footsteps of the
Army of the Rear !
I looked upon the nobles, with their lineage
so old ;
I looked upon their mansions, on their acres
and their gold ;
I saw their women radiant with diamonds
in their hair,
And then I joined the Army of the Outcasts
in the rear !
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
We’ll show what Want can dare,
My brothers and my sisters of the Army of
the Rear !
I looked upon the mass of poor, in filthy
alleys pent;
And on the rich men’s Edens, that are built
on grinding rent ;
I looked o’er London’s miles of slums, I saw
the horrors there,
And swore to die a soldier of the Army of
the Rear !
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
I’ve sworn to do and dare,
I’ve sworn to die a soldier of the Army of
the Rear !
“They’re brutes,” so say the wealthy, “and
by steel must be dismayed ”
Be brutes among us, nobles, they are brutes
that ye have made ;
We want what God hath given us, we want
our earthly share ;
And that is why we’re marching—and we’ll
march beyond the rear !
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
Awake, and have a care,
Ye proud and haughty spurners of the
wretches in the Rear.
We’ll nurse our wrongs to strengthen us, our
hate that it may grow,
For, outcast from Society, Society’s our foe !
Beware ! who grind our human bones and
human flesh—beware !
There’s menace in the marching of the Army
of the Rear.
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
There’s danger in despair,
There’s danger in the marching of the Army
of the Rear !
The wealthy care not for our wants, nor for
the pangs we feel
Our hands have clutched in vain for Bread,
and now.they clutch for Steel !
Come, men of rags and hunger come ! come,
men of want and care !
There’s room still in the vanguard of the
Army of the Rear !
Tramp ! tramp ! tramp !
There’s work for heroes there,
There’s glory in the vanguard of the Army
of the Rear !
Sydney. Jan., 1888.
HENRY LAWSON.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :—
1st. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
6th. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
8th. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals,
th. The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
I':
§ m i
Sssg
'■ -T ...r .
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
r
Special Qualities and improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle ; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
SS-
■
mm
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
Bubmit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
IM, 484 AND Okpkqb STRggT, BtDS8T-
Public Companies.
PROSPECTUS
OF
THE GREAT NORTHWEST CORDILLERA
SILVER MINING COMPANY.
No Liability.
CORDILLERA, NEW SOUTH WALES.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO in 100,000 SHARES of £1 each.
Of which 50,000 fully paid are retained by the present owners, and 50,000 offered to the public, paid
up to 155., on the following terms, viz. :
THREE SHILLINGS (35.) on Application.
THREE SHILLINGS (35.) on Allotment.
£3OOO clear to be placed to the credit of the Company.
Calls (if required) not to exceed Sixpence per Share per Month.
Provisional Directors :
W. ESSINGTON KING, Esq., Melbourne.
JOHN CURTAYNE, Esq., Melbourne.
GEO. CRAIB, Esq., J.P., Melbourne.
JAMES DONALDSON, Esq., Melbourne.
D. K. INGLIS, Esq., Sydney.
THOS. BRENTNALL, Esq., Melbourne.
ERNEST E. TAYLER, Esq., Melbourne.
J. N. STEVENS, Esq., Melbourne.
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, MELBOURNE.
Solicitors :
Messrs. LYNCH, M'DONALD, and STILLMAN, William-street, Melbourne.
Brokers :
JAMES DONALDSON, 34, Collins-street West, Melbourne.
STEVENS and DIXON, 32, Collins-street West, Melbourne.
HASSELL and WOODHOUSE, The Exchange-buildings, Sydney.
THE GREAT NORTH-WEST CORDILLERA SILVER-MINING COMPANY is being
formed to acquire those valuable blocks known as Mineral Leases, numbers 1, 2 and 3, comprising
about acres, and immediately adjoining the celebrated Cordillera Hill Silver Mine, Cordillera,
New South Wales.
The annexed report of Mr. Alfred Chappie, one of the leading authorities upon silver properties,
is so exhaustive and so explicit that little remains to be said. He undoubtedly proves that the mar-
vellous silver-bearing lode of the present Cordillera mine runs directly through each of the blocks 1,2,
and 3, above referred to, as shown in the published plan. Mr. Chappie’s opinion on this point is
thoroughly confirmed by the special correspondent of the Age newspaper, who, in his report, published
on Monday, the 9th April, upon the Cordillera and the North and South Cordillera properties, draws
attention to the strong westerly bearing of the lode which has been proved by the most recent pros-
pecting operations to be running 28 to 33 degrees west.
The Age correspondent furthermere refers to the probable “ throw,” as evidenced in the change of
the strata, which is easterly in the vicinity of the Peelwood, but westerly at the Cordillera. These
facts are of immense importance to The Great North-West Cordillera Company, as they point to the
possession- of the same valuable lode which is now attracting so much attention to the parent mine, and
which, from information already to hand regarding its first smelting, now in progress, gives promise of
splendid results.
The Provisional Directors have spared neither trouble nor expense in ascertaining the true nature
of this valuable property, and have every confidence in offering it to the public as a bona-fide investment.
The sum of £3500 clear will be placed to the credit of the Company, and it is estimated that this
sum will be sufficient for all requirements in opening up this mine, which is expected to prove one of
the richest on the field.
As a large number of shares have already been applied for, immediate application is necessary.
35,000 are reserved for Melbourne, and 15,000 for Sydney. Shares will be allotted according to priority
of application.
Upon the formation of the Company active mining operations will forthwith commence. Forms
of application for Shares may be obtained from the Brokers.
REPORT.
To Messrs. Stevens and Dixon, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, —I have, at your request, visited the property of the Great North-West Cordillera
Syndicate, of which, I understand, you are the brokers, situated at Cordillera, parish of Tuena, for
the purpose of inspecting and reporting thereon. After careful and complete examination, extending
over three days, I beg herewith to submit the conclusions I have arrived at with respect to it.
Your property occupies an area of some 130 acres, bounded east and south-east by the now famous
Cordillera Silver-mining Company’s property, and on the east by the North Cordillera and other
mining tenements, and on the west by the Imperial Cordillera. I think I am in a position to state at
once that if the Cordillera lode should continue its present course, varying from twenty-eight (28’) to
thirty-three (33') W. of N., and of which there is in my mind very little doubt, you should have very
little difficulty in picking up the Cordillera lode proper at a point in a N.W. direction, somewhere
about the N.E. boundary of the 74-acres block. I am led up to this conclusion by the fact that the
lode can be traced on the surface a considerable distance in. this direction, and recent prospecting
operations are unmistakably showing that the Cordillera lode is bearing more west of north than had
been previously supposed. These bearings will bring the Cordillera lode into your property somewhere
near the point before mentioned. I am still further strengthened in this opinion after a thorough
examination of the rocks, strata, &c., of the surrounding country. The most casual geological observer
will see that the country east of your property is of a description unfavourable to the existence of
lodes, as it is composed of an admixture of a nasty, unkind barren system of dioritic sandstone and
porphyry, in which argentiferous deposits could not reasonably be expected to live.
In the present Cordillera Mine, which I carefully inspected for the purpose of framing this
report, it can readily be observed on the surface that the lode takes its course between two truly
defined bodies of nicely laminated slate. This system of slate country throughout the district shows
itself very prominently on the surface by standing up in narrow ledges in many places several feet
above the ground, and is in this case an unquestionable evidence of the course of the lode. I was very
muchstruckwith the appearance of this characteristic formation throughout a considerable portion of your
property, and I take it as an evidence of its excellent position. I may mention, in passing, that I had
no difficulty in determining the existence of mineral deposits in your property, for, travelling in a
diagonal course, can be seen several dykes bounded by these laminated slate formations, and filled
with huge bodies of quartzite of a gossany nature, which, when developed, are likely to prove highly
mineralised, as in many places on and contiguous to the property strong indications of auriferous
and argentiferous deposits present themselves. It is a distinguishing feature and characteristic of the
lodes in this district that the surface, or cap, alternates from quartzite to ferruginous gossan.
Bearing in mind that your property is in such close proximity to the Cordillera Mine, it is perhaps
well that I should make some direct reference to the distinguishing features of that mine. At the
courteous invitation of Mr. Stearnes, the general manager of the Cordillera, I visited the mine in
company with him. I found the main tunnel had been driven very nearly with the country, leaving
the lode to the west, the rock consisting of the slate formation before alluded to. The lode is met
with at a distance of about 150 feet from the tunnel opening, and in-a rise a little above this point the
lode presents itself in all its magnitude, measuring here from 50 to 60 feet wide. It is composed of
rich argentiferous gossan intermixed with carbonates of lead and copper, and presenting to the eye a
most beautiful spectacle. The shaft, from the grass to this level, is sunk all the way on the lode,
showing about 200 feet of backs, and thus to some extent revealing the almost inexhaustible nature of the
lode. At about the2oo-feet level a copper lode, varying from 10 to 15 feet in thikness, is being opened up.
It was represented to me by Mr. Stearnes as carrying an extraordinarily rich percentage of copper,
and about 19 ounces of silver per ton, with several pennyweights of gold. Taking into consideration
these exceedingly high returns, with the fact that little, if any, of the baser metals exists, it is evident
that no difficulty of treatment need be apprehended. Smelting operations not having yet commenced,
I, of course, cannot give of my own knowledge any estimate of the value of these lodes, but their
value w'as plainly and unreservedly foreshadowed to me by Mr. Stearnes personally. And having, as
he informed me, had assayed every part of the lodes, he was most certainly in a good position to speak
confidently of them. In course of conversation he frankly admitted that, with the present machinery,
he would be able to return in dividends £16,000 per month. The smelting appliances consist of one
60-ton pacific water-jacket silver smelter and a 30-ton copper furnace, and these will be in operation
next w,eek. u
From the size of the lodes, and the excellent manner in which the mine is opened up, the manage-
ment should not have the slightest difficulty in keeping double the present smelting appliances con-
stantly going. While in the mine, I also observed that the underlay of the lode was rapidly west, in
places being as much as one in three. The north-western angle coincided with the bearings I had
taken in other parts of the field, and I understood Mr. Stearnes to say that assays taken near the
western wall of the lode had gone as high as 130 ounces of silver to the ton. In perusing this report,
it will be observed that I have taken considerable trouble in collecting all necessary information to
guide me in its compilation. The course or bearing of the lodes I have carefully taken in various
places, and since doing so, I find that my bearings of 28’, and in some instances as much as 33. W. of
N. have been borne out by other mining authorities who have visited the field.
In conclusion, I have no hesitation in saying’ .hat you have, as throughout the report is indicated,
a valuable property, and that with proper development, practical and judicious management, no diffi-
culty should be met in discovering the Cordillera lode, which by reason of its bearings must traverse a
considerable part of it.
I am,
Yours, &c.,
ALFRED CHAPPLE, M.E.
P.S. —I should wish it to be distinctly understood that lam not directly nor indirectly interested
in any of the mining or other properties in the Tuena or Cordillera districts. Whilst giving a descrip-
tion of your property I might have mentioned that on and contiguous to it is a splendid supply of
timber for mining and other purposes, and a never-failing supply of good fresh water, easily accessible
Victoria Chambers, Sydney, 14th April, 1888. A.C.
*** The Brokers would draw the attention of the public to the fact that shares in the -Cordillera
S. M. Company—whose mine adjoins the property now offered them, and upon which ss. per share has
been paid—are selling at 965. each, and also that everything points so far to very satisfactory results
being obtained from the smelting now in progress at the parent company’s mine, in which case the
Great North West shares_wqnhLAL2B££-S23lliniHllL^-Sll2^B^hlLill
Easiness A-naeuncements.
N
EWT O N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
warehousemen,
CABINETM iKERS, UPHOLSTERER®
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREET*
Full suites for dining-room.—side
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CH A IRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
Sm.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
O' nstruction ; works automatically. The above
;ut represents only two of the numerous post ions
hat can be obtained instantly, and with but little
offort. It fits pe fecily every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
upply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Pi ice, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, See. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT TALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
oils size?, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
i lg Trays, Stationery Draw-
es, revolving portsble triple
I ikstand. Receptacles for
-p-- Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Out- ide Drawers d vided into compart-
rents by movable partit ons to admit of enlarg-
ng or diminish ng *he space when • equired. Locks
automatically. One of the mod n-eful, commo-
dious, and \ erfectly planned articles for the Lib ary
or Office yet produced, j drm'rably suited to the
necessities of profe sional and business men.
Drawing room cabi.
NETS.
Early English
Chippendali Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
ARGE STOCK of PI A NOFORTES by th«
k Most Celebrated Makers.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Very Complets
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Pailour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING E ASY CH ■ IRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a special Ly. Newton & Lamb.
I_J EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,;
Chests of Drawers, from 40 '.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE awd PIANOFORTE
W A REHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURE**.
<
Show Rooms awd i


Amusements
Gaiety
Lessee
SUB-LESSEES
THEATRE.
Mr. Laurence Eoley.
RAINFORD, BARRY
and HERBERT.
BRILLIANT ! STUPENDOUS ! ASTUNDING !
GIGANTIC! MARVELLOUS! ENTHUSIASTIC!
MAGNIFICENT ! GLORIOUS ! SPLENDID !
Are the only adjectives adequately conveying an
idea of the SUCCESS ACHIEVED by the great
Australian Drama
FOILED !
Greeted Nightly by the largest audience ever
known in the Gaiety Theatre with
CHEERS! TEARS! ROARS OF LAUGHTER!
These spontaneous outbursts culminating in a
TRIUMPHANT OVATION.
THIS EVENING,
And Nightly till further announced, will be re-
peated
FOILED,
With its magnificent spectacular splendours by
“ Alta,” and superb cast by Rainford, Barry and
Herbert’s
AUSTRALIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold qnd Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.30 ; Carriages 10.45.
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST.
Me. Geo. Rignold as Mephistopheles.
Miss Kate Bishop as Marguerite.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.20.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY),
AND EVERY EVENING,
the most charming comedy opera,
DOROTHY DOROTHY DOROTHY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
STANDARD THEATRE
LAST NIGHTS of the GREAT SUCCESS
VENUS and ADONIS.
FRIDAY, 11th MAY,
BENEFIT, tendered by Mr. FRANK SMITH,
in aid of
ST. VINCENT’S HOSPITAL.
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
POSITIVELY
LAST TWO NIGHTS
LAST TWO NIGHTS
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
THE IMMENSELY POPULAR COMEDY BY
ROBEBT BUCHANAN, ESQ.
(author of ‘ ‘ Sophia ”),
BACHELORS
BACHELORS
BACHELORS
BACHELORS.
Mr. Joe Davis.
Business Manager
Amusements.
HALL,
Alhambra music
George street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
It will be the pleasing duty of the Management
in a few days to announce
THE BIRTH OF ANOTHER YEAR
UNSURPASSED IN THE SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE.
THIRD YEAR. THIRD YEAR.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
JJOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest I
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
SHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events I
THURSDAY EVENING, MAY 10th,
GRAND FANCY DRESS
SKATING CARNIVAL BALL.
May 21—Manchester Unity of Oddfellows Fete.
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS,
AND PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink.
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
rpHEATRE ROYAL, KEMPSEY.
This commodious and well-fitted place of amuse-
ment, replete with all modern improvements and
adjoining the Royal Hotel, is now completed.
Dramatic and other professional companies can
be treated with on most liberal terms.
CARL BASCHE,
Proprietor.
FOWL CHOLERA & RABBIT DISEASES.
TO POULTERERS AND OTHERS.
rjIHE Royal Commission of Inquiry into Schemes for the Extermination of
Rabbits in Australasia are desirous of obtaining, by purchase, Fowls suffering
from CHICKEN CHOLERA. Communications should in the first instance be addressed
to the Secretary of the Commission, Colonial Secretary’s Office, Sydney.
The Commission also invite the fullest information from persons who have observed
rabbits in their neighbourhood dying off, as if from disease.
By Order of the Commission.
HUGH MAHON, Secretary.
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
In consequence of Imitations of THU WORCESTERSHIRE*
6.4 UGE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have to. request that Purchasers see that the Label On every bottfo
bean their Signature thus—r
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle anS
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; . Crosse and
Blackwell, London, &*c., &“c. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wtajdente Af«ot§j JqotpbCo.: David Co best Sc,
Sydney.
Q
©
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILI.IA.RB CUSHIONS, &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS,CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS,
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON:
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRieHTOH OF S W*
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, eto., are
served on the thortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechercM
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of ihe sea and surrounding country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdte at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
■Victoria,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, ia
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ik. 1. Spring & Ct.,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL. DKNILIQUJN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con*
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. D. 5. Sjtariig,
PROPRIETOR
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large and well-ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suitts of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prompt attention.
J. CUKTIRI, Proprietor
Business Announcements.
NEWEST INVENTION—GRATEST NOVELTY.
THE
Patent Diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and. on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is out on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
Gold Modal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1883
Gold Medal, Highest Award
For Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
latest Award !! ! Gold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
O&U TON —Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
-'L jJiO
& oU3M££^
WARDED TO THE
4*EKT&t
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“ PLUM
BAZOB."
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. Price, 10/6 each. Send P.O. Order.
One of the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6 ; a Tin of the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
Transparent Shaving Soap, or a Jar of Non-irritant Shaving Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
suit the climate, 1/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6; Bottle of Bay
Rhum or Yaddo Water for use on the face after shaving, 3/6.
CBAIO- asadL
Potosoi Hait-dwsite; Saloon, S3O Isom-slrat, Sricldili Hill, Sydney,
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
•white end sound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, a healthy action of the gvms, and delight-
3ally fragrant breath can best be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powders and acid washes
aad using daily
to
w Pearl Dentifrice, a white powder composed of the most recherchi ingredients of thgyOriental
liserbal, and warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients; it whitens and preserves
the teeth, prevents and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives a
ipleasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-s6ptic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise a
Suighly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
ipastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay as a pure pnd
®on-gritty tooUi powder: such ROWLANDS’ ODQNTO,Ju» always preyed itself,
• j No other"Odonto is genuine,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL Is sow sold In * golden sole® 2«g
gair and golden-haired people and children.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneosa
defects, and rendera the akin soft, smooth and delicate. Aik anywhere for ROWI^AHU® 5
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid rewton® wed psrassiOßs taitaSeos,
Wholesale and Bebatl Aswoim—Kiuott Bros., and B. Pros®** » 00., Bydn*f-


For Constipation or Dyspepsia.
A dose of dr. bell’s bitters taken every night
will in a sho t time perform an absolute cure. It
it is well to take a purga'ive at least once or twice
a month as a preventive of disease, and as the
bitters are purely vegetable, and are made with
the greate t care, we know them to he the safest
and most effective purga’ive ever introduced to
the public. They have been sold in this country
for over 50 years, and have in that-time attained
an unprecedented popularity.
Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver _ Oil with Hypo-
piiospiiites, acts both as food an 1 medicine. It not only
gives flesh and strength by virtue of its own nutritious
properties, but creates an appetite for food that builds up
the wasted body. Read the following:—“ Scotts Emul-
sion is, in my opinion, an excellent and valuable coin-
pound. I have given it to consumptive patients, and
have been delighted with the results obtained. It is
pleasant to the taste, and can be borne by the riiost
sensitive stomach.—E, A. Rodway, M.D., Butter-Knowle,
Darlington, England.” Any Chemist can supply it at
4s. 6d *
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousilloh, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to he had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
FATHER IS GETTING WELL.
My daughters say, “How much better father is since
he used Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters. He is getting
well after his long suffering from a disease declared incur-
able, and we are so glad, he used your Bitters.” A lady
of Rochester, N.Y.— 1 “ Utica Herald.”
ANSWER THIS.
Did you ever know any person to be ill, without inaction
of the stomach, liver or kidneys, or did you ever know
one who was well when either was obstructed or inactive ?
and did you ever know or hear of any case of the kind
that Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters would not cure ?
Ask your neighbor this same question.—“ Times.”
Colonial Malabies.— I The Colonists of N.S.W. are to be
congratulated on two grounds. First, that they inhabit a
land where disease, as a rule, prevails in a mild and cur-
able form, and secondly, because the majority have ready
to hand a remedy that does away with the doctor and
medicine, chest. This important Medicine was discovered
by Mr. Richard Freeman in 1844,andnamedbyhimChloro-
dyne, which medicine continues to maintain its supremacy
all over the World as a special and specific remedy for the
treatment and cure of Diarrhoea, Dysentery, Cholerine,
Malaise, Hysteria, pain of every kind, Nervous affections,
Gout, Asthma, Consumption, Coughs, Colds and fever.—
Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist upon
Having “Freeman’s” only. Reject substitutes as they are
worthless. Trade Mark, an Elephant.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
A Lame Back is a torment
It is usually ascribed either to a strain or to
rheumatism. Nine times out of ten it is kidney
disease. Be wise in time, take dr. bell’s (Kidney
and Liver) bitters for your lame back and avoid
the dangers of which it is the warning.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
'(ndLcGwt
Gft
execute
EASTERN PRODUCE,
FOR ALL
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers, &o.; and of the following Special Lines PEEKLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH, NUBIAN BLACK-
ING ' Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents Exccnted on Favourable Terms.
Business Announcements.
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantit y for chi d r en.
For general Dob;lily, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cotaneous Affections.
The action of Dande ion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering frem Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two rr three times a day after
meals diluted with same q - ant it yof water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDIC iL GENTLEMAN SAYS
A BOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Biiterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,- I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so op, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW'S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depreseed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW'S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Bow's Steane's Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to he followed bv gri ater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Row’s Steane’s Win«
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can Lake this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row s
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I con ider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often u ed in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M'KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
Row’s Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the exc ssive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed.
TRY THEM.
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW'S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROWS QUININE BITTERS,
ROWS DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROWS ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company
13, 15, 17 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Public Notice.
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W )
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con.
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours —
A Republican Form of Government*
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliance.*
for high-class printing and the production of illus
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new, form —printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact thajt for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus
tralian journal which denounced the Soudai
Expedition from-its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-firt
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause ol
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a w r eiglit of mattei
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin it
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, tfie pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald,
HIS ANNUAL SWEAR-OFF.
Mr. Smileoften promised his wife
he would never raise a drop of
liquor to his lips again, but, though
he has not broken the promise,
the whisky gets there just the
same.
According to Mr. Dailey, there has been
expended on R.C. objects in the diocese of Sydney
since September, 1884, the sum of £428,700.
Melbourne Herald spoke of ‘ ‘ Mr. B ,
sheer-broker, the other day. Perhaps the compo.
was wrong in this instance, but if he keeps it up
he’ll come out right in nine cases out of ten.
In a newspaper office. Telegraph editor
(to managing editor): “Big flood. Two thousand
people drowned.” Managing editor : “ Good.
Give it a head that would frighten a saint.
Where’s the flood?” T. E. : “Tn China.”
M. E. (crestfallen) : “ How many did you say
were drowned?” T. E. : “Two thousand.”
M. E. : “ Amounts to nothing. Throw it away. ”
Last season there were 1,046,868 acres of
wheat under cultivation in N.S. Wales.
Trying to run down every slander is like
trying to pick up quicksilver with your thumb
and finger.
Old Lady (addressing man who checks
umbrellas and canes at entrance to Museum):
“ What is that great stone affair? ” “ That’s a
sarcophagus, ma’am.” “ What do they use it
for ? ” “To spit in, mostly.”
A contributor to the Sydney press pro-
poses as a common-sense method of celebrating
the Centennial year that advantage should be
taken of the present autumn to trench and plant
with shade-trees every public school ground in the
colony. This is a good and human suggestion.


Business Announcements.
T
IHE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT,
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves
£1,000,000
£32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OP INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
Of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
Renewable or withdraw-
able on notice in
terms of Prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Hedd this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
CRAIG AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George Street, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and Silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery Perfumery, &c.
CRATCi AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu
fac.turers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
Vi
6
Willi
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING.
Is still the most popular Brand in the Market,
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG and AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s.,
145., p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American), finely flavored,
best value in the market, {lb. pact ets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in lib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
GRAI3 & AITKEN,
Wholesale Toljjjy : and Cigar Merchants and
Importers ~a p. air dressing Requisites,
680 and 682 George - street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.
LIVER COMPLAINT,
SYMPTOMS.
f allowneas of
Complexion
Lassitude
Pain in Bight fcide
Indigestion
General Debility,
etc.,
Hot and Gold
Flushes, Dropsy,
etc, etc, etc
The liver is the
largest gland in the
body. It is the
great filterer of the
body. All the blood
passes through it to
be refined or poluted
according to the
condition of that
organ. If, by reason
of disease, whether
it be what is
termed Hot, Cold,
Inflamed, Ulcerous,
Obstructed, Jaun-
diced, or whatever
not —it fails to per-
form its true func-
tions, disease and
debility promptly
follow. With a
sound, healthy stomach and pure blood, the liver
will never become diseased. The evidences of its
existence are numerous. Exhaustion, even upon
slight effort—going up hill or up stairs; costive-
ness of the bowels; a sense of weight or pain
across the lower part of the chest; a greenish hue
of the skin ; sometimes liver spots on the surface;
burning palms and heat in the soles of the feet;
frequently a dry cough; furred tongue; saltish
taste in the mouth; dull headaches and very
heavy eyelids. Those who suffer from Liver
Complaint are familiar with one or more of the
symptoms above described. A weak, defective
stomach and a bilious state of the same, are the
prime causes of this disease. Any remedy that
will tone up the stomach, cleanse the blood of its
impurities, give strength, vigor and action to the
constitution, will remove the exciting causes and
effect a cure of this common disease. ’ No medi-
cine is so well adapted to remove it, produce pure
blood, and thereby relieve all the organs from the
terrible effects of Liver Complaint, as bell’s
bittebs. It has no equal in all cases of Liver
Complaint. s
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES & QUEENSLAND.
Maryland, My Maryland.
* * * Pretty Wives,
Lovely daughters and noble men.”
“My farm lies in a rather low and miasmatic
situation, and
“My wife !”
“Who was a very pretty blonde ! ”
Twenty years ago, became
“Sallow !”
“ Hollow-eyed ! ”
“ Withered and aged ! ”
Before her time, from
“Malarial vapors, though she made no particular
complaint, not being of the grumpy kind, yet
causing me great uneasiness.
“ A short time ago I purchased your remedy for
one of the children, who had a very severe attack
of biliousness, and it occurred to me that the
remedy might help my wife, as I found that our
little girl, upon recovery had
“Lost!”
“ Her sallowness, and looked as fresh as a new
blown daisy. Well the story is soon told. My
wife, to-day, has gained her old-timed beauty with
compound interest, and is now as handsome a
matron (if I do say it myself) as can be found in
this country, which is noted for pretty women.
And I have only Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters to thank for it.
“The dear creature just looked over my
shoulder, and says * I can flatter equal to the days
of our courtship,’ and that reminds me there might
be more pretty wives if ray brother farmers would
do as I have done.”
Hoping you may long be spared to do good, I
thankfully remain,
C. L. James,
Beltsville, Prince George Co., Md.,
May 26th, 1886.
4®" None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OP ALL DESCRIPTIONS OP
3Pla.otog:ra,pla.ic ISeq/u-isites.
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit! ——
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
Business Announcements.
EDWARD HANLAN'S VERDICT.
Sydney, N. S. W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Not feeling well, I procured some of Mar-
shall’s “ Tonic Nervine,” having been advised
to lake it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expt ctation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of it s grand staying and strengthening properties.
(Signed)
oU^_
Ex-Champion Oarsman of the World
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIHAHETTES, also FINEST BUDS of CMS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices 1
tS" Noth this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH !
I3T By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BIZAB PXFBS,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRTAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS & OLD SOB M IDT & OO f
231 CLARENCE-STREET.
GBD. GID.
We hare Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
rpHOMAS BUCKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
„ „ Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vie.
Hotels.
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply
Bulletin Office.
Says an English writer :
“The great sorrow of the late Emperor William’s life
was undoubtedly the unfortunate disposition of his Im-
perial Consort. Ever since people can remember she has
been haughty, unbending, repulsively unkind, and gifted
with the most violent of tempers, so that in latter years
the Emperor has taken care to live apart from her as
much as possible ; and as the Empress preferred Coblentz
as a residence, the problem was easily solved. Perhaps
his kindly soul would have tried to temporise, with his
usual success, had it not been for one feature in the
Empress’s character which he could not, for the life of
him, bear with. This was her love for false show, and
theatrical display generally. Two horses were enough
for his carriage before he became ruler of the
mighty empire, and two he deemed sufficient
afterwards. The Empress Augusta to the present day
never uses less than four, with postillions, outriders, and
equerries-in-waiting on horseback. Add to this that
everything about her is false—complexion, hair, &c. —and
you will understand the Emperor’s aversion, which, in-
deed) is not only shared by the Court, but by the whole of
Germany. At the commencement of the trouble in 1848,
he fled to England, and stayed at the house of Baron
Bunsen, then Prussian Minister at St. James’, He told
Bunsen not to make any fuss. Bunsen, who was a baby
Of genius, took him at his word, but he did not mind. In
early life he had been used to poverty and privation, and
he was always a simple man. Before he became King his
parties only consisted of a few sandwiches and claret-cup,
and the guests used to slip out to have a bite at a
neighbouring restaurant. He learned during his stay
in England to grow very fond of up, and he and Queen
Victoria have always been intimate friends, and have re-
gularly exchanged autograph letters. In 1854 he said to his
brother Frederick William IV., “If you ally yourself to
the Czar, sooner than draw the sword on your side against
England, I shall leave the country and go to England.'
Frederick William answered him: ‘ Please yourself, my
brother ;at all events, you know the wav.’' He never
forgave the imputation. He was a great epicure in his
later years, and 1 the first officer of the mouth ’ was a
Frenchman. In a fit of patriotism he discharged the
Frenchman after the war with France in 1870-71, but soon
recalled him, as he declared the German ‘ Koeche ’
poisoned him. He was a perfect glutton for lobsters, and
indeed, ruined his health by eating them. When an
officer rode up at Gravelotte, and, saluting, announced to
him formally : ‘ Your Majesty, the day is won ! ’ he re-
plied ; ‘ Well, then, I should like something to eat!’ He
suffered great pain from the disease (renal calculus) with
which he was afflicted for years, and frequently nearly
succumbed under the enormous doses of morphia which,
contrary to his doctor’s advice, he insisted on taking.
This was the real cause of the trouble last May, and the
deep sleeps from which, as we have heard, he could not
be wakened, were entirely due to morphia.”
When the Sydney Zoological Gardens were
first started an alligator was one of the chief
attractions. After amusing many people for a
long time this reptile suddenly disappeared, having
apparently escaped from his tank. Great was the
consternation in the neighbourhood of Moore
Park. Rents fell nearly 50 per cent, immediately,
the boarding-houses were deserted and whole
families took to living in the attics of their abodes,
under the conviction that an alligator couldn’t get
up stairs with any great amount of celerity ;
the belated cabman driving along Randwick
Road would furiously whip his jaded animal
at the fancied sight of a long black object unfold-
ing itself from beneath a fence, and one enthusiastic
sportsman having captured a magnificent specimen
of the common Moore Park he-goat—tied his snort-
ing captive to a tree and lay in ambush all night
with a rifle, in expectation that the alligator would
come out of his hiding place to eat the goat afore-
said. All this time the alligator was placidly
buried in the mud at the bottom of his tank. A
well-known city auctioneer, who takes great
interest in the Zoo, was making efforts to
have the missing saurian discovered, so some
kind friend inserted the following advertisement
in the Herald, “Wanted, two men to look after
the alligator ; work light; wages, 30s. per week.
Apply, , auctioneer, street.” Heavens,
how they rolled up ! Nearly all Irishmen, all
hard-up, all insolent, chewing tobacco, and
spitting about the side-walk; every now and
again a detachment would invade the auctioneer’s
sanctum, and ask what about that adjective adver-
tisement for a man to look after the alligator, and
wanted to know whether he thought they hadn’t
anything better to do than waste their time there
all day. The frenzied auctioneer protested that he
knew nothing of any advertisement, that there
wasn’t any alligator to look after, that the alliga-
tor had escaped and was very likely about the
premises, and might spring on them at any
moment, but nothing would induce them to go
until he got a huge placard and stuck it on his
door : “I am suited.” Then the crowd adjourned
to the statue, and passed resolutions that the con-
dition of the working classes at the present time
was abject and downtrodden when wages for look-
ing after an alligator were only 30 bob a week.


The City Provident Dispensary, 603 George-street, Brick]
field Hill, between Liverpool and Goulburn streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpence. The Resident
Medical Officer (a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand,
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays 9to 10, Evenings 7to 9,
ICTORIAN ARTISTS’ SOCIETY.
Exhibition of PAINTINGS in the Grosvenor
Gallery, Public Library Buildings, Melbourne.
Entrance from Little Lonsdale-street, E.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Admission, Is. Catalogues, Is.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 1
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were pi the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables him to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
a positive cure in every oase he undertakes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—where there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorganio trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician l
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON .« CO.’S
"MARROWBONE LANE" WHISKY,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“Evening News." Address, “Tattersall’s," oare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery |
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
BRUNTO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edward Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Street.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co,, Ltd.,
50 Clarence-street.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE!.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedroom- large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and aaths, shower
and needle baths passeng ERS, ator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other 1U Bl'equisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. v isitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate,
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor
CORRESPONPENCE
“E. Wilson ” : Imperial Federation means that
young Mrs. Australia is to allow her mother-in-law,
the old and grumpy Mrs. Bull, to take up quar-
ters in the same house with her. If Mrs. Bull—
that is to say, England—will just keep off our stamping-
ground and let us manage our own business, we shall be
more than friendly to the end of time Will S.” :
Good “James Elson ” (Gym.): You have a much
poorer idea of the Australians than they have of them-
selves. Why, if necessity arose, the Australians, far from
being terrified by the prospect of a Chinese invasion
as a result of “ colonial ” independence, would contract to
successfully invade China and bring back the Emperor as
a camp-c00k....“ Rectum ” : Both wrong. N6e literally
means “born.” It is the past participle feminine of the
French verb nattre, to be born.... “R. J. 8.” (Toolombah):
Many thanks “Sazerao”: The sentiments are good,
but crudely expressed....“E.S.”: We know a man
who lost £4OOO in four weeks by speculating there
in scrip. So that there must have been at least one
honest man about the place “Belyando”: By the
laws of the State of New York, marriage is held to have
no ecclesiastical element in it, but to be a simple civil
contract. A publio acknowledgment on the part of a
man that the woman he lives with as his wife is there
considered a legal marriage. A contract in writing with
witnesses is a valid marriage. Marriages must be
solemnised in English, and marriages must be consummated
to be entirely legal “Boomerang”: Many thanks
“ W.W.”: Much obliged, but we give you a pinch for
stale news “Peter Roberts ” (Cooktown) : Get Judge
Therry’s “ Reminiscences of N. S. Wales and Victoria.”
“ Walter Mason ” : (1.) There are, we believe, six or
seven Chinese lepers at Little Bay Hospital, Sydney.
(2.) Leprosy does exist among white men—there is, or
used to be, plenty of it in Norway, and there are many
white lepers at Molokai settlement, Honolulu, where all
the inhabitants, numbering a thousand at least, are
lepers “ Cockney ”: Next week, probably. Please call
if in town.... “ Georgite ” : Mr. Dailey was born In
Sydney “Grip” : No, there’s no “gate” in it. Write
some more “ Pantofel ” : In re the execution of John
Grace, you can rest assured that, whatever the decision,
it has not been arrived at by the Executive without pain-
ful consideration on the part of Sir Henry Parkes.
It is well known that he is strongly opposed to
oapital punishment under [any circumstances. He
has repeatedly spoken against it “A. Thor-
burn ”: Great Britain’s war-debt at the present time
is £739,278,688, a sum exceeding by £200,000,000 the
debt of any other State save France. In 1689, when
William 111. ascended the throne, the debt was only
£664,264. It increased to twelve millions odd during the
reign of Queen Anne; was more than trebled by George
I.; was swelled by the addition of sixteen millions during
the time of George 11., and received a legaoy of
£732,850,942 during the reign of George 111... “ Jemima
Sappho is very much obliged. She says you possess a rare
virtue for a woman—absolute honesty “G.S.” (Mel-
bourne) : Will probably publish letter next week
“ Moorabinda ” : Reoeived “A Republican ” (Corowa):
For an Australian national flag, how would the Southern
Cross, in white stars on a blue field, answer ? It would
be both effective and appropriate. There is an objection
to a flag representing in stars or stripes the number of the
present colonies. We are Australians, not “ colonials.”
Our political boundaries are purely temporary and tenta-
tive. As population thickens, our Continent will be
divided into states, not colonies. Besides, it is not
original. It looks like an idea borrowed from the U.Sf...
“British New Guinea ” : Your sentiments voice the im-
mortal truth. Will try and find space in a future issue.
“Spontaneous”: The alleged journal you quote is
quite prepared to take advts. from the smiling Chow,
although it professes to preach in its leading columns the
doctrine embodied in the phrase: “ The Chinese must go!”
.... “ Alf. J. Stevens ” (Albert Park, Melb.): Thanks for
«ng “ Konstant Reoder ” : Received “Albert
nice ” : There is no reason why Australia should
not float her own loans ; but there’s very sufficient reason
why she should float no loans at all “ John E. Dyees” :
Next week....“ Robert Ferguson ” (Blackall): Will give
substance of your letter.... “M. Moriarty ” (N. Fitzroy):
We think the cloak should have been black in c010ur....
“ W.P.8.” : Thanks for items “Young Cornstalk”
(Broken Hill): Government bonuses are not given
for Chinamen’s scalps in New South Wales
William M. Judd”: Of very local interest..“ Free-
thought ”: Will yet reply to your long letter
“ Navvy” (Bacchus Marsh, Vic.) : No, the lists are closed
and poems to a cook are now at a discount “ Zeph ”:
Very good ; write again.... “ Fid. Pef.” (Auckland, N.Z.):
Verses very good, but too spun out. Will answer letter
in next issue “ R.8.T.” (West Melb ): Do we ever
deny what you so strenuously advance ? Admitted that
Parliament is all you say, we are compelled to use the
machinery at our disposal. The wheels of God grind
slowly, but they grind small. Reform is the result of
painful evolution. If we refuse to use the means we have,
there is only one alternative—Force....“ T.V.” (Naran-
dera): Will write at length....“ S.C. A.”: If a woman
deserts her husband from caprice or refuses to live with
him, and can give no reason but disinclination, and can in-
stance against her husband no act of cruelty, drunkenness,
threat or attempt on her life, &c., she has no further
claim upon him until he chooses to condone her offence.
“A Backblock Subscriber” (Merri Merri): We’ve
looked at your letter from every conceivable situation of
view and fail to see the point of it “John Shepherd
the Englishman ” (Charters Towers, Q.): Your MS. is
oeru long, but will read it “D.A.P.”: Will look your
MSS. up “Hedge Scholar” (Broken Hill): Thanks for
suggestion “W. S. Adrian” (Maokay): The Poly-
nesian is not quite so bad as the Chinaman, inasmuch as
he has not 400,000,000 brothers waiting to take his place.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Queen’s
Birthday Cup, May 24 ; 2000 Subscribers at 10s.
each. First Horse, £400; Second, 200; Third,
£100; Starters, £lOO ; Non-starters, £lOO (divided
amongst them), and 50 Cash Prizes at £2 each.
Also The Queen’s Birthday Cup, 3000 Subscribers
at 20s. each. First Horse, £1,500 ; Second, £6OO ;
Third, £300; Starters, £300; Non-starters, £3OO
(divided amongst them). The Winter stakes, run
June 11th. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £BOO ; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
■which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please registrar all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Po3t Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Referee.
The race on Saturday last, between Kemp
and Hanlan, was rowed in much the same way as
the first Beach-Hanlan contest. At the mile
point it looked odds on Hanlan, but later on
Kemp collared and passed his man, Hanlan being
completely played out. Kemp won with con-
summate ease in 21min. 36sec. Kemp, whom this
latest contest proves to be a fine and plucky oars-
man, is working his way steadily up the ladder of
fame, but he has yet several rungs to mount
ere he can, with reason, be dubbed cham-
pion of the world in the same sense that
Beach was champion. Hanlan has been beaten
by Gaudaur and Teemer, so that his victor
cannot be said to hold the championship any more
than the pair named. Hanlan, as usual, imme-
diately after the race acknowledged that he had
been fairly beaten, but upon consideration he dis-
covered that something had come over him which
prevented him from getting pace out of his boat.
This “ something ” was probably Peter Kemp.
There were two attempts at fouling, Kemp going
into Hanlan’s water between Uhr’s Point and the
mile beacon, and the men narrowly escaped com-
ing together, in which event the race would
assuredly have gone to Hanlan. The latter
made no protest, but an alleged backer of
his, Mr. Watson, liked his gruel so little
that he took upon himself to write out
a protest, which Hanlan refused to lodge.
Further on Hanlan made a deliberate at-
tempt at a foul when being passed by his oppo-
nent, but Kemp was in his own water, and had
the pair come together then the Kanuck would
have had to bear the onus of the collision.
Hanlan was fairly rowed down, and should own
up like a man.
PEERS’ SOAP.
[WITH APOLOGIES TO THE MESSRS PEARS.]
A u.
%/s i/ /
The English footballers are stated to be a
first-class lot, andsofarhave “bested’’all they have
met in New Zealand, the country which raises the
best footballers in these parts. They next play
Auckland, the hottest team in Australasia.
«’‘ • *
Sculler Kemp’s father brought two of his
farm horses down from the Hawkesbury and sold
them to back his son in the race with Hanlan.
* \ n f. . * ,
Kemp’s victory over Hanlan affords another
instance of the recently-discovered fact that an
oarsman is only a “veteran” according to the
number of years he has been at the work. Beach
and Kemp began to row big matches at a time of
life when other men are leaving off, and it is pos-
sible they never would have been champions had
they undergone severe training as “ two-year-
olds.” Hanlan, at 33, is a weary old man com-
pared with Kemp, at 35.
Many “ sports ” are at a loss to under-
stand why the N.S.W. crew started favourites in
last intercolonial boat race —especially as in these
races the favourites almost invariably win. We
can show how the milk got into the coeoanut.
There is never much betting on these events, and
when any one man is ready to bet heavily at even
money the other side always asks 6to 4. Now
there was in the cornstalk crew one man who was
ready to back the crew “ for money,” and those
who know how very little wagering there is onthese
races will understand that this was quite suffi-
cient to affect the odds. Weight of money will
bring a second-rate horse to first favourite, and
the same thing is much more easily done in boat-
acing. We wouldn’t like to say who the man is.
• • •
The Siillivan-Mitchell fight has been
described as a game of “ tip and run.”
* * •
The unlucky Guesswork, by Gang For-
ward— Peradventure, died the other day.
* * •
Hanlan says £4OOO was offered him to sell
his race with Kemp, but he refused the bribe.
Name ?
* • #
The Duke of Portland’s horses—Ayrshire
and Johnny Morgan—ran first and second for the
Two Thousand Guineas, third place falling to the
Duke of Westminster’s Orbit. The winner, Ayr-
shire, was backed at 6 to 1 for the Derby at latest
dates, and it is reported that Galore, in the same
ownership, can make him gallop. With three
strings to his bow, the Duke of P. will make
things lively for the Duke of W., whose Friar’s
Balsam may not be such a certainty, after all.
Portland is a young bachelor, and as rich as a
Christmas pudding.
* * *
A Melbourne paper notices that the young
men favour those girls who have been through a
fymnasium. They can hug so much harder, you
now.
* • •
When the Punch trophy was rowed for on
the Parramatta, some years ago, the writer was
one of a party on a steam launch which took Ned
Trickett, one of the competitors, up to the start-
ing-point. Someone said “ What a grand course
it is ! ” Whereon the ex-champion of the world
surveyed the river critically for a time, and said,
‘*Ah ! What we want is a piece of water about
two miles long and a quarter of a mile wide, with
flat banks so as you could fence ’em in and charge
admission, and me and ’Anlan could give exhibi-
tions— that's the kind of course I’d like to see.”
Of such is the kingdom of sport.
Cardinal Moran entertained about 100
priests at luncheon the other day to celebrate the
completion of St. Patrick’s Seminary, Manly
Beach, on which nearly £170,000 has been spent.
Advertisement from the Daylesford (Yic.)
paper :
T N case of fire the public are requested no*, to ring
I the fire-bell too severely, as the legs of the bell-
tower are in a weak condition. By order, A. Shaw,
Captain
According to the Brisbane Courier,
whether Griffith or MTlwraith climbs to the
dizzy height of power, there will be a strong
majority of members in the new Queensland Par-
liament in favour of a moderately-protective
tariff— ‘ A majority quite as numerous, if not
more so, utterly opposed to the Naval Defence
Bill introduced into the Assembly by the Premier
last session ; while not a single member will dare
to raise his voice on behalf of the Chinese.”
So far, the result of the Queensland Elec-
tions is a general surprise. The position of the
two parties will necessarily remain undefined
until next week, but the returns to date are all in
MTlwraith’s favour. His triumph over Griffith
in Brisbane by several hundreds ough to materi-
ally influence the voting in the North and weigh
heavily on the side of Australian Nationalism.
The Sydney Press asks : —“ Will the
workmen accept, a lower rate of wages in order
that the Government order for locomotives may
be tendered for by colonial firms and made in
N.S. Wales?” The Sydney Mort’s Dock Com-
pany put the question to their employes with the
result of a refusal on the part of the workmen all
round to accept any reduction in wages. Quite
right, too ! The workman’s share of the proceeds
of his labour is even now only about 25 per cent,
of his earnings. Strange that it never occurs to
the papers that the action of the speculative firms
in refusing to be contented with a smaller per-
centage of profit is much more unpatriotic.


Hotels.
Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
lament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
an a Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
C °MMODATION for ninety.
aiter meets every Steamer.
and 'rpio
grams please address proprietor
S. M. COLLINS.
GYMPm X £? ANGE HOTEL
MPIE - QUEENSLAND.
c bntral Hotei p
v “Meavons t ' ” Brivate Sitting Rooi
for all parties engaged in mini.
H- G. BAILES, Proprietor.
TOWNsvn 1a l HOTEL,
ILLE ’ QUEENSLAND.
o.r t,el ass A or LE ’ QUEENSLAND.
«ttr a Famiii^ 1110 jv 1011 f for Commercial Gentle
Plun^ UV ? te withou
&>>• F& eand . Shower Bath. Billiard
VJUIII WILIIUU
5L an< *? hower Bath. Billiard:
rvinj 8). v,- “"ec ana bhoY
- l e ; a ' e - Chef. ChargesTt'rictl:
6e£s «v ery sieame PllltS ° f EIC Best brands
0 R
HANRAN, Junk., Proprietor.
N OTIC
Jf^th^y^Uhe^um lll ° f Lowrv & Boito
puwfc r °tw ri^ d ? ofthe
Fin
it? nus 01 me r >
takn !!° tlla t he has gone
Per»A " ulc h Will tf chai Ke of the SUNBURN
nal su Pervi^ion Cef a rth be carried on und
' s°“\ Sunburst Hotel, Mou:
SuaTn ata »i. lw o i ed ’ aild facing the cei
»° Bre et find evp.-,- nS vlsitil ' K the celebrati
f tt^l“lA>j??loll theira,Z- Co ? nfort an d convenient
° r CS° ON THE PpSy aL BILLIARD TABL
\ 8°°(1 p?, m ni°dation ß^ I x? KS ’ also STABLIN
> aota AD THIRTY HORSES, a
' iy G °aches /i' 1 - 1 , five minutes’ walk
, ’ n Dto n k y!' 1 ! 1 . flve minutes’ walk
and to n °°
bolton
Mln^^addresU
>ftUii EL B
B U p °f,howry & Bolton),
RS T HO T E
. Mouni ’ Morgan. 1
I SSr2 A HOTEI
, Tr uet, Rockhampton.
a BT*Q L ‘
tW, Pl Unep! S J FAMILY Hotel.
mj® Si ttinL n nd Sh °wer Bath.
d St abn ng> °p’ without extra charge,
Jas Ye ry accommodai.ion.
A, U^~-~-^-iI^ MSO N, Proprietoi
A oj]
§ T . to hote
ANi) Corner of
S OU^2 3OURn k Streets,
Adiy, 4 cc onirilorl BRISBANE,
n. 6d the Coolest' Suitesof Apartme.
t , Bouse in ,! iad Best Ventilated
e ity '
JatTT''''--—lH___ ”• Proprietor
8 BT. g*?** 330111
T 1
to Ssitom S l>S su P eri or accom)
. Plar M ® e Ptral T)(1 m resi dents, being i
S ofrie entr al posiSo res f ident8 ’ 1
J% s G h e sf and Baat t a ’ Routing the I
»f a Partn R ilda Ran^ d Witbin five minu
k C" ent «.laSti^ y Station - p U'
k r °°m. }■ drawing-room, gen
lot aad cold baths with
OF
AKI
Ss el A a° KA Y *
i^ve U i c H e^mod
Firgß^L,
and s t B n s F ami]
J ’E- PAr,? Wer t
Weß oomr TKllS '
.sip®
o*<* I
6 y P ! rd
AR ioj> 7^—
.^SsSS?
V
Q°ru er
!>tC:
v»
I'* 1 !:
s
for
Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, BOULBURN,N.B.W.
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
sample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
Masonic hotel, east-street, rock
HAMPTON.—T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
Wayside Gleanings:—The “Western Cham-
pion says : “ I can recommend the Rockhampton
Masonic to my western friends.”
jyjOUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENSLAND.
Under the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
cellency Sir -. Musgrave K.C.M.G. Accommo-
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
the balconies a splendid view tan be obtained of
the celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. Passerigei
and mail coaches daily trom Rockhampton and
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro
prietor, of the Arm of Monckton and Co.
Business A rmouncements,
E. I) MILES.
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
A3NOAS
30*027 9t*
% , ffea. ...
1 SdV3 SiVH
Jfl 1
unvnijina mt
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
s
TUDY ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames re-
covered. and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
lo New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
04l George Street,
Briclrfleld Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes Repairs neatly executes:
GINA
OR-
Baking
P.
%
SS
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
os
HIGHEST DECREE OF MEKII
ISTHE BEST INTHE. WORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUC H S
fNTCRNAT I ON AL
RRITE M CD A L
Hah ufA era red byJaiaesQiaiiikhi
Bampur 4 f sro«iT
High-Class Dentistry.— at Reform Prices.
ARTIFICIALTEETH
•COMPL
v*'
E-TEsri
8. «
5.
V
d
MARSHALL BRO:
DENT ISTS
133 ELI Z AB ETH ST
Teeth painlessly extracted under nitrons oxide
gas daily at 11.
Business Announcements.
M
ONUM E N T
In Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. COIN OGHAM,
Maroabet-street, Wynyard-square, Sydney.
8
k mmm uesicine.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CJL4
PATENT
PILLS.
m
&
•ire admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bill out
and nervous disorders,
tuch ar wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervoui and trem-
bling sensations, Ac. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. This
b no ffetion for they have done it in thousand* of oases,
B*wy sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
nile, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
for females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
•attractions, »nd bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
•detraction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
oerding to the directions given with each box they will
Mon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
•f the liver, they aot like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
ha found to work wonders upon the most important
ergans of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring baok the keen edge of appetite, and arouseinto ao-
tlen with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physioal
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of sooiety ; and
me of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeoham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheeling, Ac., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the abovs
oom plaints need only try One Box to prore that they ars
the best ever offered to the publio for Asthmatio and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sens* of oppression
and difficulty of breathing whioh nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any ef the abovs odmplainta give Bischah's
OonsH Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will la a short time be rw>
moved.
Caution.— Th* publio ars requested to aotiee that the
words “ Bsscham 1 * Pills, St. Helens," ars on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. ICnot on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by ths
proprietor, T. Beeoham, Chemist, St. Helens, Laaoashirs,
England, In boxes at Is. ljd. and Ss. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with snob bos.
RO BE R T BUTCHER & CO.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING hatters
GEO RGf STREET
SYDNEY
V'OUTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
A.n& at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
r fIHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, c.j:' l nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred*t.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’lected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIt Acting Manager.
MASON BKOTHEKB,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK (or
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARD WARS,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents (or
JOHN WALKER and SONET
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYKNB
Schnapps and Genera.
At MELVIN and SONS',
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
Ml
■
**©£!**££
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnson & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney.
ofjSydney
Bat&jMouNWHS*
XU&C£XMMBgto*mgffiBMSZ&JR&.
WE can recommehd the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
,R.
8 ht
Xi * ,
- „ K jßwii
FOB
’O
and INVAUQS
Has an enormeus sale in Engla'nd,
'■•'J is now being introduced into tht
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get asupply,
as every wise mother will certainly*
use it.
OR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
jr
AS
MA.BRONCHiTIS, COUGHS
ANO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
3
MAS
NaH A M
O C
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THIS
Syfkn Mil Water k,
16 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
Perfeot Pnrlty Guaranteed.
:trio •trout «fTc»
iioasucno j
E" <«'* Beard Elixir did tkie,,
will do it on either bald
i or bare face- Forces
heavy Mona tar he in from 2 to
i teeeke and never faiU.W,OOO* . .
tjwpynontea. young men already near full dopyrlaktst.
beards, having used Ito 3 pkte. .Vo injury, easily applied certain
in effect. Packet,, 1.. M %ar.h 3for
cover, free from observation iddrees, Fr»»k ttouirliik Sole A cent
Box no, a r. 0,, tydney. P <J. »'
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Make?
• 296 PITT STREET.
Marquees on Hire,
r ATKINSON’S^
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thru Gold Metals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, and being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents,
ATKINSON’S
CELEBRATED EAR BE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
odour It far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sold under the same name
ATKINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dialtri, and of thi Manufacturer!—
J. * B. ATKINSON,
M, Old Bond Stsxst, Lohdoh.
Trade Itark-^’White Rose" on “ Gohfen


ROYALM
0)3 C/‘ I d
P
*AK|8 6
POWDER
Absolutely Pura,
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
IMPORTER OF
IS'r'WXITBS, SPIRITS, BEERS, &dC-, &0, 9
George and Gipps Streets, Sydney.
‘ SPECIALITIES .—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, lo and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
tar The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. 8&T All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney-
m- SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
rasi-smss mins' iiriEsm? ism ni irarai,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALL ACH BROS.’
JSTEIW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION, i
WALLCAH BROTHERS.
VENJ, VWlt 7101
For Artlsfclo Posing and
combinin * softness and brilB»
Photographs 01
GOi
Photographs of
GHARLEMONT h
ROYAL ARCADE^
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY^^
—— — LT« k
HE
Tfl a
WONDER 0F
COLEMANE AND S 0 * 1 ?
Pure Volatile EucalffHJ 1^
th i<S 2s£ BSp* 00
EXHIBITION. f
p
All those suffering from Aath®*
sumption, Rheumatism, Ne
Kidney and Gravel Complain ,
OIL a SAFE CURE. Our g fel0
stands without a rival for ts*53B
stands without a rival « •»
Bad Eyes. We have more bon® MftW
than any medicine In the w ol 0
I i 01
address on receipt of stamps. gfl,
and ‘2n. fid • Ointment. 2S. an TI _jj 17,
and 2s. 6d; Ointment, 28. J? u qMlTfl'
Sydney and Suburbs, W. O.
Moore Park, Sydney«
T
H E
S C I E N C P-
BV W.
A Book for Young and
ound in cloth, and 6d. .
bound in cloth, , , _
tions. Price, post paid,. ~~ from
sample free. Those suffering ft t od c6 pji#
haustion and Diseases shoul , ,
valuable work. Address : g 8°“
Post Office Chambers, corner
streets, Melbourne, Vic.
ts of humanity their Den uP plied ft
ed. Fullest directions T R Y 4 A
:y disease IF YOU SUFFER, *
ured only at 78 Nbw OxFO® tb®
sere should look to the t° D
;he address is not 623 Oxford-
irious.
THIS • Gh
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BASS,
©3T
AND PURSBS.
of the Premises having been sold and great alterations pending.
Startling reductions for a limited period, for Ctish only, In consequence
startling reductions ™* o * ORDERS, WITH REMITTANCES, WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
WILLIAM BULLARD. 343 GEORGE STREET-
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &0.
Braes and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Cooper smithing, Blacksmlthing. Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “ PAN’’CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, «as Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
Sydney.
BARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Crating, Soda-water, Wine and Cider °T. rS ,
Machinery- Steam and Hand Presses for Vignerons for lees, Candle-ma pi
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting. David Sum n e( j aQ d
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakes’ Liquid Albumen Q a rb° D
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawrora Joe
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventitiye of fustiness. fre ezin»
family use ; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or wine r'rfce, L, *‘ ( t*
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon in country districts IP >
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extract, Salicy le Rop p
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ginger a-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Application.
ta- Publishing Office of “THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, j-ree-
WINE AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW.” Specimen Copies r
••
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY,
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Beal Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ALAH B. BRIGHT,
/SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
3k£ oajTnsrs
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
■M
■m
ry *><«
<M S*
MONK'S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
A&OJNTK’B
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhcea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. Gd. per Bottle.
IvIOXnI &
MIRALWU 'i XTURE
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
. , Sole A gents -
Mathey, Nathan & Co
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
I
JEl, 3-
Edin., L.B- C ' S
DR,
L.R.C.P.
registered in Great Britain, s \fi acrf
late surgeon to H.R.H. W
Resident Medical Officer to .
London, specialist for the 11 K
and Heart Diseases, Sco.
Consultation by i etter ° r g, ®
charge, at Edgar House, i '
Hunter-street Sydney. JJ
r\ R. R
Send for large Bound f O^ 0)
for all Nervous Diseases* jo0 °° 3
age, 6d. in stamps. Cons-i oJj0 e
and the Doctor will tell J reS a-^
case is curable or not.
DR. v p
7 SPRING STB®® 1 '
s
PECIAL NOTICE.^ 0 ® pfefjjj
Tasmanian 0P
Tasmanian d
GERALD BROS., Subset g ftD d
in advance), Six Sh a n» tt,,J
quarter, or One Pound P
The Bulletin will be o® ft . 0 nt
the office, George-stree >
the 8treet. \ : -'j
Commercial Hotel, a
o^oYP 1 '
M jyjj.
THE above is one ot t h fl J'i
reasonable.
aoUilctUlo.
Superior accommodat^^^.
/
» •nZ*
SURVEYORS.
A few of the many reasons for this bold assertion ar ing a ’its
traversimr motion ; evlindrioal stem with broad steady ■ , arUl 1 ?. v »t
TO
Wiesener’s T'few Patent” with traversing head.
by wear
the same
changeable, can be ordered by wire and be sent same
cuiars, or send caps of old legs .along to WIESENEK’
day’s post. It is equally effective for all classes of work, from the finest town alignment to the roughest mountain wor - 0
E#s STEAM FACTO It V and DIRECT IMPORT STORES, SYDNEY, by far the largest concern in this lme m Austr*. »
Most Impkovkd Goods can be inspected or Manufactured.
