

The Bulletin
Vol. 9 -No. 421
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1888.
Price. Od.
Attorney-General Simpson.


" THE BULLETIN,"
The National Australian Newspaper.
iPBOPftIBTOHB . BULLETIN NKWSPAir*»K 00.
LmiTBD.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 31 PITT-STRKKT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALK
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable in Advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... A 1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly .« ... ... 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly , M >» .« 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications to he
addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Niterary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
ThU offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
She Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
Hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THW BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25 1888
Australia’s Sham Cobden.
The recent Centennial of Australia was cele-
brated in about every fashion possible to worn-out
and unoriginal man. Sunday schools, pugilistic
clubs, temperance societies, and Licensed Vic-
tuallers organisations, and foreign-trade associa-
tions all combined to irradiate the picnic. But
the Press were discreetly silent, or merely gave a
brief report of those attempts at celebration
which suggested severe frosts, or threw a pallid
ray of discredit on the alleged greatness of the
foreign-trade colony of New South Wales.
♦ *
Amongst other things which the enlightened
Press glozed over, the so-called Freetrade Associa-
tion of New South Wales did its little twinkle by
way of shedding a halo of glory on the continents’
first hundredth birthday. The professors of the
doctrine of Cobdenism in Sydney felt called upon
to roll up and explain that they felt glad that
England’s privilege to shoot garbage upon Austra-
lia’s shores was still unimpaired. In the good old
days Great Britain sent out her shoddy subjects
and now she sends out her shoddy goods. At the
recent conversazione the shoddy Premier of New
South Wales made a speech, and waved his white
beard over the glittering festival. There were
ladies present, and the snowy-craniumed Parkbs
somewhat injured the customary vigour of his
oratory, in his attempts to temper the verbal wind
to the ear of,the shorn lamb of similitude. Con.
sequently he could only slightly refer en passant
to the artificial production of hybrids, and he was
compelled, in a general way, to knock the strength
out of his vocabulary by the use of such weak
and effeminate words and phrases as “ bed of cor-
ruption,” “foetid," “he lived amongst dirt,”
“the devil,” “arrant turncoats,” &0., and the
likening of a political opponent to “ a mad dog.”
Had ladies not been present Parkbs might have
struck the chords of higher flights on the oratori-
cal hand-organ, and perhaps would have reached
the level of a SuTroß-slanging Bathurst peroration.
Sir Henry opened out With Remark to the effect
that any intelligent roan or woman who could be
placed on the stage of Australian public life—by
which he meant Sydney public life—without being
“mixed up” with any “petty cabals” and
“ mean straggles ” would be heartily as-
tonished to find any set of men “ bring-
ing the creature of Protection into a land like
this.” He did, not, however, enter into a de-
scription of his own various and multitudinous
connections with “petty cabals” and “mean
struggles,” neither did he explain the nature of
the objection which Influenced a jury of his own
countrymen, on two separate occasions, in declin-
ing to grant him that justification which places
a statesman above suspicion in regard to “ petty
cabals” or “mean struggles” In which he may
be “mixed up.” The phrase, “a country like
this," dominated the whole deliverance. Sir
Henry’s speech was a piece of unblushing but-
tering of Australia. It was not strictly truthful
either. It was the bribe of verbal flattery flung
as a sop to the Cerberus that guards the ballot
box and allows Parkbs and his creatures a lease
of misrule. “ Free and sunbright land of ours,”
“ this glorious land,” “ our condition of life was
liberty itself," the creed of Australian Parkesites
was as “ free, as full, and as beneficent as the
sunlight of Heaven,” “ the light of the liberty
they possessed,” “the free and buoyant air of this
country,” “a holy cause,” &c., were some of the
flowers of rhetoric by which Sir Henry sought to
marmalade the unthinking youth of Australia. Ihe
entire speech was a distortion of fact and a bilious
piece of invective hurled against opposition. All
those who thought differently to himself he de-
scribed men as with—
▲ stubborn disposition, with a narrow brow, with barren
sympathies.
After exhausting his slim list of stock-phrases in
denouncing Protection as the creature and out-
come of darkness, degradation, ignorance, and cor-
ruption, he turned off on the sentimental tack, and
said that he was disatisfled wit a the term “ Free-
trade,” andproposed that of “the Cause of fiumai
Liberty” as a suitable synonym. “ Human
liberty ! ” yes, the liberty to tax the beer and the
tobacco, the tea and the sugar used by the poor ;
the liberty to let land go free, and property to
rear its head untaxed ; the liberty to hamper the
producer by absurd duties on raw material, while
letting the manufactured article co ne in free ; the
liberty to prevent thousands of people working
and* enjoying the fruits of their labour. If Sir
Henry means this, we agree with him, but not
otherwise. He really desires to find a fresh
phrase for his own policy, in order that he may
shunt Cobden at the moment it suits him, and
enable him to “dish” the growing party of Pro-
tection when the election straw points to a change
of wind.
* * *
It will, at least, be gratifying to the great
peoples of Europe —if they should ever hear of
Sir Henry’s speech—to the Germans, the Bel-
gians, the Russians, the French, as well as to the
great American people, to know that the Protec-
tionist is a poor, miserable creature who ‘ wanted
corruption,” “monopoly,’ and a “ foe fid atmo
sphere.” He said that the stickler for the rights
of the producer was
About as much out of place in this glorious land as some
nondegcritt creature, partly a platypus and partly a flying
f x, would be in the woods of England.
Sir Henry might have made his simile the com-
pleter by adding, “ about as much out of place as
s ome nondescript creature, partly journeyman but-
ton maker, partly renegade Chartist, partly tide-
waiter, partly political charlatan, partly bogus
patriot, partly experienced insolvent, would be
in this ‘ free and sunbright land of ours ’ ” To
say of an opponent that “ he lived amongst dirt ’
is a compliment which will no doubt be greatly
appreciated by the ghosts of such men as Thomas
Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin, if Parkes’
speech ever gets to its fitting home in the land of
shades. The sham old Democratic hocueser pre-
tended to pay a compliment o Ninian Melville
by recognising in him the leader of Protection in
New South Wales. This was evidently done to
spite Mr. Heydon and Mr. Dibbs ; but although
Parkes assumed a certain amount of “ something
like respect” for Messrs. Melville and Lus-
combe and gave it as his opinion that the leader-
ship of the Protectionist party should be the meed
of the former gentleman, this grand and perfect
old Chesterfield could not restrain his eomp'i-
mentary tongue He said that though Ninian
Melville, aa.P., had
A higher endowment aud ability than any of the other
gentlemen,
though he had
Consistently advocated Protection all his life ... ha
had done it wish an amount of vigour which had often re-
minded him (Sir Henry) of a mad dog.
Mr. Melville is at least many things that Sir
Henry Parkes is not. He is human-hearted and
has been politically sincere and consistent for
more than 20 years. He sympathises genuinely
in human trouble and bereavement. He repre-
sents his constituency in a thousand different ways
fcir Henry would never even dream of. He talks
to them on politics on week days and he preaches
to them on Sundays. If a miner diis in the
Northumberland electorate, Melville at once
proceeds to his home, comforts the widow
and children, makes a collection for them, and
of .en, out of his slender purse, heads the list him
self. Then he buries the corpse acd reads the
funeral service over it, and minimises the ex-
penses of the affair to those left behind. Sir
Henry has never done as much for one of his
creditors, yet this is the man who entertains
and instructs women by describing an opponent
in their presence as a “mad dog.” There are
dogs in the world, savage, inhuman tykes, that
are not mad, or, if they are, not confined where
they would do no harm to a world weary of their
incessant barking.
Sir Henry recollects, no man better, that he
once held Protectionism views and delivered Pro-
tectionist speeches. It is not so very long since
that he cheered the emplojees of Mort’s Ijock
with a discourse upon colonial-made locomotives.
And then, as to his pre ent colltaguis.
Sutherland, by compulsion a silent adjunct of a
Freetrade Ministry, is a well-known Protection ist.
Hay-and-corn-duties Clarke is a Protectionist
caught red-handed and snatched into the im-
porters’ ring. The insipid Roberts is a Protec-
tionist, and advocated timber duties in deference
to the promptings tf his cotsdtuents. Garrett,
two years ago or thereabout, delivered a
fiercely Protectionist speech at Camden,
which New South Wales has not yet had
time to forget. Three-ball Abigail, who is the
uncle just as Parkes is the fath. r of the people,
vyas once a virulent F rotectionist, and, upon
proof of his guilt, owes The Bulletin the sum of
£25 at compound interest for two years. Burns,
by his action in regard to the butter and bacon
duties, is practically proved to be a Protectionist.
In consideration of all these well-known facts, Sir
Henry, at the Freetrade conversazione, said :
Nearly the whole of the party who were trampling through
the country as advocates of Protection were the most arrant
turn-coats that this or any other countiy ever saw.
After this, cimment is needless. The utterance
coincides so well with the known facts that it
carries its own dark and devious explanation.
# •
Parkes is becoming more and more a confirmed
Imperialist, and no speech cf his no at ever
terminates without a reference to the “beloved
mother country.” Sir Henry Parkes is
now a G.C.M.G., a distinction conferred so re-
markably appropriately upon his assistance in
steering his Naval Defence Colonial Subsidy £ ill
through the New South Wales Parliament that it
looks sufficiently like the price of his services.
After an amou t of twaddle respecting what the
“ beloved mother country ” had done to forward
her own inte. ests, Parkes brought his speech to
a conclusion with a prophecy that “ Protection
could not last long in the free atmosphere of
the United States.” But where is the
evidence to warrant such an utterance? America
was once, liae some of the Australian
colonies at present, a place wherein Ping-
land could dump her manufactured garbage
and shoot her shoddy goods. Since that time
the population of the States has almost quintupled
and America stands to-day one of the fore
most rivals of England in the competition for the
world s commerce. Is it likely that America will
kick away the stool by which she rose to power
and follow the example of the Cobdens of
? The greatness of the United States
rest i upon her Protective policy, and even should
America now bs in a position to dispense with it,
that would he no argument, but rather the re-
verse, for a young country not to follow her
example and adopt a policy ol Protection against
the world. Parkes, of course, had his little fling
at Russia, a country in which, to use his own
choice phraseology, ‘ ‘ Protection reigned supreme.”
That is so but look at the tremendous strides
Russia has made as a great power since Peter
the Great only a couple of hundred years
ago bequeathed that famous legacy to his
country ii which he counselled the gradual
absorption of English gold by giving for it Russian
exports; and, weighed in the balance with the
White Tsar, the hairy Bismarck of Australia is a
dark and miserable failure as a balance-dropper,
Instead of being an exposition of the principles of
Freetfade, if it has any principles, Sir Henry’s
speech was a personal attack distinguished for
bitter invective and spiteful calumny. Instead of
being a philosophical discourse, it was a vulgar
tirade couched in the intemperate vapourings of a
Billingsgate fish-wife.
The Land Swindle in Victoria.
? he “ real property ” boom in Victoria is still on,
and seems likely to continue. The conditions
prevalent must have the effect of attracting af
tention to the general land question, and the
topics of nationalisation, the right to the unearned
increment, and others cognate, will be again to
the fore. In defence of the unearned increment
it has been said that this is merely the interest on
money locked up for years in land. We pause
here to inquire whether there is any natural pro-
cess by which interest comes at all to money
that is locked up ?
* • *
The interest on money invested in land should
come, as in the case of other investments, from
use, and not disuse, of the subject of investment.
If a man has a hundred pounds and uses it in
business, he may reap a very good return. If he
J ends it out in any fashion, then, other things
being equal, it must yield him less, as the real
user has to make his profit also. If he puts it
away in his safe it is obvious that he will not gain
any increase.
» * *
Now, if he exchanges it for land—which, in res-
pect of value for value, is just the same as
exchanging silver for gold, or gold for silver—and
if he uses that land, the profits arising will be
proportioned to the use that he makes of it. If he
lets the land, or lends it out, granting, for the
time being only, his right to do so, inasmuch as
he has paid money for it —still, other things being
equal, he should receive less for the same reason ;
and still, if he lets it lie idle, there is no moral
reason why any interest should come to him, nor
any natural expectation, apart from the pecu-
liarity of social conditions, that any will.
But this is not all. The “ interest’ which
he does draw is about on a par, so far as
the morality of the action is concerned, with his
charging a borrower or a changer of money in-
terest upon it for the time it has been in his own
possession. Let Landgkab go to Moses for a
loan or to get a sovereign in exchange for silver:
Quoth Moses, “I have had this coin a year. I
want my interest for that time as well as for the
time jou have it,” and Landgkab would be the
first to say, ‘ 1 How can you expect me to pay you
except for the time I deprive you of it, or to give
you a premium vrhen I give you the full equiva-
lent at once ?” It is merely the scarcity of land in
certain places, or rather of places upon the land,
which enables him to extort blackmail from
others, just as Moses might extort forty shillings
for a sovereign if gold happened to become mono.
polised in a similar manner.
• *
In the latter case, it is obvious that the sove-
reign was not ta'sen as a marketable commodity
in the first instance, and it is also obvious that if
anyone did take it as such, he had no right to do
to. 'Hie State retains the power to call in any
currency at any time, and none can dispute
this is just. It was issued by the nation, and. its
surface value is the only jroperty that has been
transferred. If the raw material, by any scarcity
becomes dearer so much as to disturb the propor-
tions of the circulating medium, the obyious, cer.
tain, and equitable, as well as legal, remedy is for
the nation to call in the affected metal, and ex-
change the coins for new ones having in reality
the value (as reckoned in the unaffected currency)
which they purport to have, so that in the instance
supposed, everybody would, without loss, ex-
change his present sovereigns for sovereigns of
half the size, and the State would retain the re-
maining half of the gold to apply, without the
need of taxation, for national purposes.
• * *
It is precisely in the same manner that the
nation issued land to its first holders —in Aus-
tralia, at least, most unequivocally so. And just
so is it entitled to the “scarcity increment” of
it. The particular method of laying hands upon
it must vary according to the form of the Consti-
tution, but the thing itself—nationalisation—or
rather the reclamation from private appropria-
tion that which is National —is a necessity alike
of justice and of simple policy.
The Unchartered “Banks” of Sydney.
Starting a deposit and discount bank, or
any alleged institution of the sort, is mere
child’s-play in Sydney, wherein all manner of im-
position is specially favoured by an Indulgently
interpreted law. An oyster-shop in a third-rate
street is abandoned by its distressed and despair-
ing proprietor; the situation is not good enough
to ensure the small amount of patronage required
for the successful conduct of business, so the
shutters are put up, and the place becomes
vacant. A lemonade man conus along, but his
offers to “sling squash” meet with no response,
and he also abandons the premises. Then a
Chinaman looks at the place with a view to run-
ning It as a fan-tan shop, but the prospect is no
encouraging, and he declines to venture. Ye
the era of glory for that shop is at hand. A man
with a reasonably English or even aggrea
sively English name, the face of a thrice
convicted thief, and the voice of a Dutch
German Jew comes into possession. He reform
*he front of the premises, puts in large plate-glas
windows, frosts tne glass thereof, and upon it in
cribos the legend ‘ ‘ Hemispherian Loan, Mort
grga, Discount Deposit Financial and Mercantile
Dank and Patent Resurrect! m 1 1 ay Building So
e'ety (Limited). Capital £2,000,000. Office-hours
10 to 3. 10 to 12 noon, and Bto 10 pm. on
Saturdays. Directors : Grasper O’Greedy
Ksq., Hardup Scratcher, Ksq-, Leonidas Wash
iegton Ananias, Esq., Barabbas Hornyhand, Esq.
and P. N. Threemonths, Esq., William Jobson
Manager. Balaam Sass, Secretary.” Then he
sits inside and waits. Likely as not he can’t raise
the price of a box of matches until a depositor
comes along, and if an intending borrower
saunters around in those early times he has
to wait until a depositor planks down enough to
s apply the borrower’s requirements before the
loan can be effected. It is a little bit woncerfu
that customers don’t oftener realise the actual posi-
non of these fearfully and wonderfully made insti-
tutions. Just lately a temporarily impecunious
s rburbanite arranged to borrow £5 on the security
o’ a second mortgage over a time-payment semi-
g'and piano. The security was duly signed, and
ihe usual 60 per cant and expenses agreement
prepared, but still the bank failed to produce the
dollars. Day after day the borrower applied in
vain, until, when nearly a week had elapsed,
tie bank official handed over the amount partly
i i shillings and half crowns. Whether he bad
burgled a church or robbed a saveloy-stall is not
known, but appearances seemed to clearly indi
cate either one o? the other of those felonies. Yet
this was a “Bank” with an alleged capital of
I eaven knows how many thousands, and with
a full-blown directorate of not unknown men.
Where the alleged capital gets to is always a deep
mystery to those who put any faith in pro-
siectuses. The only preliminary expenses in
starting such a show would seem to be the gild-
ing aid adornment of the magnificent window-
front which is always a prominent feature of these
nondescript banks. Blazoned lies on frosted and
painted glass, and magnificent titles engraved on
i erpetnally refulgent brass seem to appeal with ir-
r siatibleforce to small capitalists who wish lo in-
v st their meagre savings at several per cent., and
i o unfortunate slaves of misfortune who are willing
to mortgage the equity of redemption of the
himehold sewing-machine at 100 per cent, per
a mum or over. Toe gorgeous window is a trap
t » catch the unwary, and the names of poli-
ticians is a part of the swindle.
* * *
The facility with wh'ch even politicians actually
i i Parliament can le sometipaes induced to
i nd their potenti •! names to public shams
of the incorporated company order is one
of the peculiar feaures of the unohartered
‘ banks” and phi anthropic institutions. The
names of Si- Henry Parkes, Jacob Garrard,
and J. H. Youkg no doubt availed to catch
many victims on behalf of the “ Austra-
-lan Mutual Prudential and Medical As-
surance Company.” Men were enticed into
that trap only to find, when the thing burst up,
that the alleged security afforded by those mag-
nificent names was valueless for all practical pur-
poses The members named certainly were
paraded as directors, but when the crash came
each pleaded ignorance —an ignorance appa
icmly born of sheer carelessness—of all
the peculiar transactions recorded against
the Society. And so it has always been.
There never yet was a public company
swindle so gross as to be unable to em-
i ody, for a time at least, the name of a
designing or foolish member of Parliament in
-a directorate. And until present laws are
amended all through, it is safe to prophesy that
t here never will be.
• •
Fortunately for the 200 per shent harpies, the
1 iws rela.ing 1 1 banks are in Now South Wales in
a ghastly state of confusion. The statute A Vie.
No. 13 has been amended by 12 Vie, No 21, the
tatter Act making the word “bank” include a’l
instilutlons receiving money on deposit; but as
the former Act had already been amended by 7
Vic. No 16, of which amendment 42 Vic. is
entirely oblivious, there would now be some
doubt as to the possibi ity of applying the pro-
visions of any one of the three Acts against
philanthropists of the 200 per shent species. The
Courts, iu any case, would be hound to apply the
aws in the manner most widely contrary to the
Jaws of commonsense, and therefore it would be a
hazardous bu iness to trust to any statutes nowin
force. What is wanted is a law providing for a
deposit in the Treasury of, say, £20,000 as a con-
dition precedent to the opening of any institution
desiring to do any banking business; then there
would be none of these unchartered “Banks”
carrying on lucrative businesses on the security of
(quitable liens on the family fire-irons. Then
wouldtbe “Bank”safes oea c e to bulge with bills of
sale over Brummagem watches and wheelbarrows
then could a man be sure that when he went to
cash a friend s cheque he would not be elbowed
by a burglar seeking to ‘ hypothecate,” to use the
elegant Mr Mortimer Frankt.yn’s phrase, the pro-
ceeds of nocturnal plunder. Then would public
men cease to excite suspicion by permitting
their names to be advertised as “Directors” of
grandly-titled and strangely-conducted pawn-
shops.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
OT All-round Austrnlinn Inierost.
The “ Government House party” in Melbourne is
quietly and stealthily preparing the way for that
inevitable Bill which will clap a few more thou-
sands on to the annual salary of Sir Henry Loch.
For the current year His Excellency has been
voted a bonus of £(5000 to meet the expenses of
Exhibition hospitalities, and a big effort will be
made to keep that bonus (or five-sixths of it) on
the Estimates, as a permanent ii.cren-e to the
gubernatorial loot. A first public whisper of the
intended job comes, as might be expect d, from
the rgujs, which recently reminded His Ex’s,
(what a suggestive abbreviation!) faithful squat-
ters and devoted ha-gers-on that “the special
vote is only to be regarded as a stopgap. Two
things, it must be remembered, have happened
since the salary of the Governor was fixed in
Victoria, We have moved him from a suburban
house to a city mansion or palace. . . . 'lhe
revenue of the colony has risen from £3,000,000 to
£7,000,000 per annum, and private expenditure
has increased in proportion. Even as the Tory
paper puts it, this is a miserably weak case for
dear Sir Henry, for the very arguments advanced
in favour of the job can be turned against it.
The “mansion or palace," with its scarecrow


tower, is an extra charge on the colony, not con-
templated when the Governcr’s salary was fixed,
and the natural increase in wealth has brought
about a natural decrease in tbo.cost of living. In
point of fact, the put chasing power if £lO,OOO has
grown almost in the same ratio as the Victorian
revenue, so th at the fortunate Loch is decidedly bet-
ter off than were his predecessors. And the Argus
says neve” a word about that new country resi-
dence at iiuuunt Macedon, where the great man
and his family put in a considerable part of their
valuable time, and enjoy themselves in a rustic,
rentiers, economical style. The mountain retreat
was father to the bonus, and the bonus is progeni
tor to the additional salary, at the christening of
which Melbourne saesiety hopes to dance. With
a few extra thousands to spend in cheap enter-
tainment, «ir Henry Loch and his “affable”
Lady will be able to further extend their
precious circle and secure another batch of
adherents to the sacred causa of snob-
bery, already powerful in Victoria. On that
ground the Argus is honnetting for the local
representative of our Gracious Queen, and on that
ground the raising of a Governor’s “ screw” is not
merely a matter of financial interest to one colony
alone, but of political moment to all true Austra-
lians. Every penny of public money paid into our
vice-regal exchequers is indirectly spent on manu-
facturing grovel and pushing along Imperial
Federation, As in England, with its Gou-anointed
Queen, so in Australia with its Brummagem sove-
reigns. The people find funds to support their
natural enemy. And if Victoria is so eager to
hand over more treasures to her particular official
foe, we shall soon feel the effects of such folly in
New South Wales and the, other colonies. To
preserve the Balance of Snobbery on this young
Continent is a matter of all-round Australian in-
terest, but it looks as though the “ Court ” party
in Victoria is resolved that she shall acquire a
preponderating influence in this miserable respect.
The last sentence ought to be cabled home by
Reuter.
Shams—Medical and Ollier.
It is difficult at all times for a lawyer to be con-
sistent, but for the Attorney-General of a New
South Wales Freetrade Ministry the difficulty
swells to the dimensions of a large-sized impossi-
bility. Mr. Wise discovered this, and that gay
and fresh young man gave himself away to a
greater extent than any other living politician has
in his efforts to show that there should he freetrade
in everything but law, and Mr. Simpson, his suc-
cessor, who is old enough to know better, has
fallen into the same old mudhole at the very out-
set of his career. In the New South Wales Upper
House last week, the sleepy legislators awoke to
realise that Mr. Creed, M.L.C, was hammering
away at his old antipathy—the unlicensed doctors
of the colony —and for the five hundredth time
was urging their instant suppression. The Select
Committee which some time ago sat upon the
question of these hangers-on to science ascertained
that the mother colony of Australia was overrun
with shoemakers and pick-and shovel men who
were making fortunes by tinkering with the
human frame ; that dustmen and local preachers
had set up by hundreds as specialists in brain-
diseases ; that broken-down storekeepers, who
called themselves doctors, performed weird surgi-
cal operations upon the ignorant with chisels and
crowbars ; and that the patient who pinned his
faith to the “ M.D.” on a brass plate was as likely
to be buried on the certificate of a dog-fancier as
on that of a qualified practitioner. Mr. Creed used
considerable language in dealing with this aggres-
sive tribe of pillmongers, and the Attorney-
General retaliated by laying down one of the
great axioms of Freetrade :
The public had a light to employ, in matters of medicine
and surgery, anyone whom they saw fit to call upon, and he
could not help pointing out that there were legally qualified
medical practitioners in our midst who assumed to them-
selves titles and degrees which they had no right to assume.
The point was cleverly taken, but it was a dismal
shuffle at the best. The public have a right “ in
matters of medicine and surgery”—and in matters
of law as well—to employ whomsoever they
please ; they have a right to engage a policeman
or a Domain loafer to plead for them in the
Supreme Court, though, thanks to Attorney-
Genetal Simpson and his brethren, they are
meanly and unjustly defrauded of their privilege
in this matter, and they have the same inalienable
right to be doctored and operated upon by a book-
canvasser if they prefer him to a physician or a
surgeon. But the point at issue is of an entirely
different nature. What the public object to is
that they have no opportunity of distinguishing
the loafer and the book-canvasser from the
physician ; that the trio are equally allowed
to use titles which set forth that they
have passed as duly qualified in their pro-
fession, and that when they send for a
doctor and are deceived by an ignorant amateur
who resembles the things sent for in nothing save
his bill, the law affords them no adequate redress
lor an imposition which often leads to fatal re-
sults. If a law were passed which compelled
•every man practising medicine to describe himself
by his real style and title the public might, no
•doubt, be permitted to retain the right on which
Attorney-General Simpson lays such stress; if
the broken-down adventurer were required to
•describe himself as an “ amateur physician,” and
the Bachelor of Medicine who adopts the loftier
style of “ Doctor,” as so many even of the leading
practitioners of New South Wales do, were re-
quired to use only the title which he has fairly
•earned, and if the criminal code punished imposi-
tion instead of attempting to punish quackery,
then the people mLfht fairly and reasonably be
ileffc to take care of themselves. But while the
Parkes Governnlent, in its natural fellow-feel-
ing for quacks, political atd other,” declines to
interfere, and while Attorney-General Simpson
continues to sit like an avalanche on the sham
llawj er, but holds a brief for the sham doctor and
the surgical impostor, the public have a just right
to complain of the authorities as aiders and
•abettors of swindling and fraud. The doctor who
trades under a false designation is a confidence
man of the meanest type—a type meaner even
than the card-sharper, for the doctor takes a
low advantage of the sick who are not fitted to
•stand it, while the card-sharper trades chiefly upon
the able-bodied male citizen—and not even the
support and countenance of Mr. Simpson cm ele-
vate him to any higher level. In fact, it becomes
an open question whether Mr. Simpson and his
“ protected ” brethren may not shortly require
■elevating themselves.
+
More Convicts for Australia.
The everlasting hills have long served as a by-
word for everything that is immoveable and un-
changeable on earth, but the metaphor is fast
becoming worn out. The world has found some-
thing compared to which even the hills ave shift-
ing and transitory, and the granite peaks have
had their day as the symbol of passive resistance
to the attacks of external forces. The brain of the
British Tory is an older fossil than the mountain
ranges of Caucasus or Lebanon, and his ignorance
and stupidity are more deeply rooted than the
foundations of the globe itself. He takes no I
account of the flight of time or the advance of |
intellect; he still speaks of Australia or Canada
as a British “ possession ” as ho did in the dark
dajs when no man was allowed by law to own
even himself except by the grace of his superiors;
and in his crab-like progr ss backwards he even
talks of a time close at hand when England may
resume the hideous system of transportation, and
shoot human rubbish into Australia as she did in
the barbarous past. Only last week the Illus-
trated London News, a presumedly sane organ
of British “ Liberalism,” devoted an article to this
subject, and solemnly propounded a scheme for
flooding Western Australia with cast-off pick-
pockets, wirh burglars, homicides, forgers, and
all the accumulated scum of Britain’s decaying
civilisation, and expatiated on the advantages of
the system in these words: —
As at Botany Bay, the convict settlement would soon be-
come a respectable settlement—much sooner than at Botany
Bay, indeed, because it would consist of free men earning
their own living; and, in this great empty world, the trans-
portation to any one place need not continue for any very
long period of time.
The convicts, it will be observed, are not to be
confined. They are simply to be seat out to Western
Australia and turned loose for the term of their
sentences, to commit more homicides, more burg-
laries, more forgeries, to perpetrate more violence,
and to mix with the colonists and found a ne w
race of criminals in anew land. The prospect is
inviting enough, and the reasons for the adoption
of this policy are set forth in words that are
suited to the meanest comprehension
Indeed., it is notoriously not the worst class which starves—
the criminals, the burglars, the thieves—any more than it is
the best which is furthest from starvation, or makes most
money. Emigration is the removal of producers and the re-
tention of non-producers.
Hitherto England has sent out thousands of her
starving agricultural labourers and mechanics to
Australia, and has left the New World to find
them homes and employment, to support those
who were past work, and to care for those who
were incurably sick. Many of them were old,
broken-down, and feeble ; many were taken direct
from poor-houses and lunatic asylums ; they were
part of the vast horde for whom she could
find neither bread nor shelter, and their one
recommendation was that they did not openly
belong to the criminal classes. Some of them
lacked even this qualification, for London is filled
with charitable organisations which ship off dis-
charged prisoners of all degrees of criminality to
the Antipodes, and public and private enterprise
has done its best to fill Australia with the gar-
bage of the beloved mother land. But the Lon-
don News objects on the ground that the crowds
thus disposed off were not all scum, and urges
that England should send out its non-producers
only to prey upon the colonists, and keep her pro-
ducers entirely to herself. And the way in which
she proposes to do it is thus explained—
There are vast tracts of country, belonging to the United
Kingdom, which are still practically uninhabited ; take,
merely as an example, Western Australia, with nearly a
million of square miles, a healthy climate, and (in 1881)
30,000 inhabitants, or less than one person to every 30 square
miles ; indeed, in four-fifths of this vast country there are no
inhabitants at all, as all the 30,000 live in the remaining fifth.
It should thus be Jong before there were residents to com-
plain of the forcing upon them of convicts.
The noble Britisher has yet to learn that neither
Australia nor the Australians “ belong ” to any
Power outside this Continent ; the dayj when one
man belonged to another are past. And as to the
theory that it would be long before any one would
complain of the re-establishment of British con-
victism in the Pacific, it all depends upon how the
writer measures the flight of time. In our own
opinion, it would be about two hours before every
colonist had entered his protest, and about three
before the first ship-load of criminals were driven
into the sea These figures, of course, are to
some extent based on mere guesswork, but they
can easily be verified. Let the genius who runs the
Illustrated London News look into history and
find out how long it has taken to accomplish the
promptest revolution on record, and he will have
his anBW^r.
What eternal tommy-rot all the papers talk about
the results of Australian independence. Hark to
the “ Radical ” Age :
An independent Australia would mean an Australia that
would have to accept all the responsibilities of independence,
and among other things to fight its own battles and protect
itself against any foreign foes whom its diplomatists have
been unable to conciliate.
America might have said as much after she had
won her independence, and she had no more men
than we have and not half our resources. Moreover
she had England to the North of her in Canada and
Spain to the South of her in Cuba and Mexico,
whereas we have no hostile nation at all to fare
And yet America has palled through somehow,
though she had to fight England, Mexico, and her
own Britishized South as well.
+
The following cable is not without interest, taken
in connection with something else :
A bill was introduced in the Reichstag to-day, the object
of which is the adoption of rigorous measures against the
Socialist agitators. The bill empowers the Government to
expatriate all avowed Socialists, and deprive them of their
rights as citizens of the German Empire.
The something else is the speech of Prince Wil-
liam, the eldest son of the Crown Prince, in
which he recommends the State support of Ger-
man Salvation Army missions to the Berlin poor.
“ What we want, in order to eliminate Socialism
and discontent,” he says, “ is more Christianity /”
Yes, you want to make the people you have plun-
dered and degraded believe that they will go to
hell if they try to stop your living on them ; that’s
clear enough, your Highness. It is not so many
j ears ago since your Highness could be seen five
nights out of the seven reeling round with
drunken women in Berlin or Bonn, and having a
‘ ‘ good time ” smashing looking-glasses and win-
dow-panes. Imagine this brutal young cut-
throat getting up now and calling out for
“ more Christianity ” for the masses ! The Reich-
stag has flung out the bill, the Berlin masses will
fling out the greasy superstition.
♦
One of the saddest mistakes of that eminent
bungler, Parkbs, was committed when he removed
Inglis from the quiet contemplation of his tea-
chests to make him Minister of I’ublic Instruction
in New South Wales, and if the eminent tea-
dealer wishes to do the only good service he is
ever likely to render to his country he will resign
his billet and go back to the jungle, where, in
happier days, he used to hang on to the tail of the
raging tiger in his lair. When he assumed office,
Inglis professed fathomless sympathy with the
teaching profession, and proceeded to emphasise
his good wishes by docking the shivering school-
children of their firewood and lea vie g each
teacher to be his own charwoman. He also
abolished the system by which teachers were
granted free passes to their homes during the
holidays, and made much row over these various
economies. Inglis, however, is never happy un-
less he is composing a “mlnit” for the purpose
of enacting something, or abolishing something,
or standing something else on its head, and he has
now issued his tiger-slaying ukase to the effect that
the highest-paid teachers (those in Class A)
who are least in want of charity, shall be per-
mitted on certain easy conditions to travel free all
over New South Wales, while the poor members
of the profession must pay ordinary fares. ’ The
bush-teacher who swelters out in the back-blocks
on £6 a month with a deduction off that for the
superannuation-fund, must travel home to recruit
at his own expense or else stay and swelter where
he is ; the pupil-teacher who does all the work at
from 10s. to 17s. 6d. a week —less his contribution
to the superannuation-fund—while the highly-
paid head-master is playing billiards, must also
pay as he goes or else give up all idea of going ; but
the boss instructor, with £4OO a year and
assistants to hoist the heavy end of the log,
can travel where he likes at the cost
of the taxpayers. This is ttie latest aspect of
Tigei' I glis’ retrenchment, and serves as
another exposition of the system by which the
schools are left dirty and fin less in order to raise
funds for Centennial banquets, fireworks, and
statues. Magnificence and dirt are stranarely
mingled in Parkks’ policy, and under his moral
administration the times are better for the fat
bog and worse for the lean one than under any of
the common sinners who preceded him. And
while times are passing good for the fat hog they
are absolutely glorious for the fattest hog of all.
♦
Representative “ad.” from the S.M. Herald
A YOUNG man, c f good education, and who writes a
go d hand, is desrous of employment; would like
to get mto a wholesale houss or on a journal. C.,
2 Olare-terraoe, Abercrombie, Golden Grove,
This yearner after the fourth estate has sized up
modern journalism pretty accurately —probably
through an extended acquaintance with the
Sydney dailies, and he reckons that a newspaper
is so much like a wholesale softgoods warehouse
that he will fit either job. The warehouse is a
place where they keep goods to suit the demands
of their customers, and the newspaper is a thing
which keeps opinions to suit its customers —the
warehousemen who advertise in it. At present the
Sydney Press is getting out its new autumn
opinions, and a large stock of left-off theories will
be cleaned out at a great sacrifice. Mr. “C.,”
of Glare-terrace, has, we repeat, a level head. He
knows that the Calico Jemmies who see his ad-
vertisement will be able to get him a job at
writing up public opinion in one of their news-
paper-warehouses if they have no imported
shoddy for him to vend at the other places.
Poor, old, played-out, antediluvian John Bright
writes to a friend in New Zealand :
Ignorance and selfishness are in partnership in the defence
of what is called Protection, after 40 years of Preetrade with
prodigious success.
That “ ignorance and selfishness ” comes grandly
from a manufacturer wfco made his own pile by
running hundreds of “ hands ” at competition
wages in order to fores Brummagem goods on to
the miserable Hindoos whose manufacturers and
artizans he had ruined ; but who save a man in
his dotage could prate of “ the prodigious suc-
cess” of which Great Britain is the present spec-
tacle ? Ireland just held down by straining every
nerve of two armies of occupation—London the
same —Lhe Western Highlands the same—men and
women and children starving to death all over the
country—there’s “freetrade and prodigious suc-
cess for you I ” The venerable driveller closes up
with:—
I hope you will follow the course of the old country and
New South Wales, which I am sure is following a course of
real prosperity and wisdom.
y ’ Follow the course of the old country and New
South Wales!" No, John ! We have been in
England and know that it is a hell upon earth for
nine-hundred and ninety-nine men and women out
of a thousand. Were John Bright a land-
nationaliser we could listen to him with respect on
the subject of Freetrade, but he isn’t, nor are any
of the Australian Freetrade party. They are
Freetraders, those of them who understand the
question, just as all the Cobdenites are Free-
traders : they want to cheapen food in order to
reduce wages.
Now that all mechanical means have failed and
those who in New South Wales suffer from the
terrible infliction of the rabbit-pest are awaken-
ing to the fact that the only effectual method of
fighting the scourge is by the use of some minor
form of germ disease, a healthy trade is being
done in the rearing and distribution of invalid
and valetudinarian bunnies. As much as £5O for
a single diseased rabbit 'has been given, and
several people are making a specialty of this new
Freetrad*} industry. These inoculated rodents
will probably cause a deal of trouble, and the
danger to stock and no less to human life cannot
be foreseen. For at present the work of exter-
mination by disease, instead of being conducted
under the observation of experts, is blindly car-
ried on by inexperienced and unscientific indivi-
duals who are nece sarily ignorant of the ultimata
consequences of their action. Dr. Creed, M.L.C.,
who has taken an energetic part in the proposal to
remove rabbits by a low form of epidemic, and,
in fact, was the first to d‘ ass it in New South
Wales, suggested to th<A* vernment the desir-
ableness of conductify of careful experi-
ments under the sw n of a special com-
mission consisting of «, pathologist, chosen
by the Council of the Lor.don College of Phy-
sicians, a veterinary surgeon, selected by the
London Vetei-inary College, a pupil of Pastbcr’s,
nominated by thie great savant, and, in addition, a
gentleman trained in the German school, who has
made a special study of germ diseases, recom-
mended by Professors Yirchow and Koch, of
Berlin. Thus both the great schools of germ-
disease inquiry would be represented, each repre-
sentative acting as a check upon any possible
rashness in the suggestions of the ether, while the
safety of human beings and domestic animals
would be thoroughly conserved by the other mem-
bers o £ the Hoard. However averse the
Government may te to the employment of
germ-diseases for the extirpation of rabbits,
germ diseases will continue to be used, either
openly if unforbidden or surreptitiously if prohi-
bited. The Government must take prompt action,
and Dr. Creed’s proposal has the recommenda-
tion of being some thousands of pounds per annum
cheaper than the present altogether ineffectual
system of dealing with the rabbit-pest, while it
certainly appears tremendously more drastic and
scientific. In connection with the question of
rabbit-destruction it seems somewhat appropriate
to remark that Pasteur’s letter on the subject, for-
warded to Mr. Twenty-five-pound * bigail some
time ago, after being for months unheard of—pro-
bably shelved in the private-life of a pigeon-hole
—was reported in the Sydney daily Press as
“ undergoing the process of translation by the
Department.”
Mr. Abbott, P.M., of Sydney, is reported by the
local News to have publicly stated that the
Chinese are a frugal, hard-working race, and
that in the course of a long experience he has
only fined two Celestials for being drunk, whereas
he has treated two or throe thousand Irish for the
same complaint. This is a really good argumen-
for the appointment of Chinese as Crown Proset
enters and Police Magistrates. A lot of these
officers are notoriously fond of drink, and it is
evidently time they were dismissed and Mongols
with wooden countenances and habits of strict
sobriety put up to reign in their stead. After all,
however, respectability does not consist entirely
in keeping away from the beer when there is a
head on it, any more than honour consists in pay-
ing 20s in the £. P-.rkes effectually squashed
the latter delusion, and we proceed to sit on the
former in spite of Stipendiary Abbott and all his
tribe.
"Twill Be Always so.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“ 'Twill ba always so, while the red sun burns and
the white moon chills,
And the g*im rock's stare, and the hoarse waves
wail in the caves below !
I have looked on man while the ages rolled, and
the dark high hills,
And the dark wide seas, and the dark great greed
of his heart I see
As a changeless,changeless, changeless,unchange-
able Trinity I
’Twill be alwaj s eo, ’twill be always so! ”
To the brow of the Head splashed the sea-spray up
and the foam that fell
At the feet of the Mist in the tangled moss, and
down below
The white waves in oaves and on high wild winds
conspired to tell
That the eyes in the Mist saw well, and the lips in
the Mist spoke true :
“ Oh, unchangeable hills and seas, Oh, unchange'
able man’s heart, too !
'Twill be always so, ’twill be always so ! ”
And the eyes in the Mist looked out, and the Ups
in the Mist again
Moved, and night came down, and the words
through the dark sought the waves below—
“ 'Twill be always so, for I saw, ages gone, ages
gone, the main
Like a white sheet spotted— black cliffs, black
gods, black men, long spears ;
And the men were strong and they killed the
weak and they ruled for years !
'Twill be always so, ’twill be always eo ! ”
And the wave that was touched with the word
drew near to the rooks, and said
To the waves t hat rested, or slept and dreamed
in the caves b*3ow,
“ 'Twill be always so ! ” and then bask, with a
toss of the white-crowned head,
It re-flowed to the open sea, and to now-coming
waves again
It cried, and the cry went on till it covered the
limitless main ;
“ 'Twill be always sc, 'twill be always so ! ”
“ And a century gone, and again, in from the
open sea,
With wide clouds of canvas aloft and streets of
dark houses below,
Come a race with a warmer blood, with a loftier
brain, and a knee
That bowed down unto holier gods, but the
changeless heart was there,
And the weak were broken like reeds and myths
were the Gods of Prayer !
'Twill be always so, ’twill be always so.! "
“'Twill ba always so !" sighed the wind, climb-
ing up the steep rocks of the Head;
And it wandered forward to where the town lay
slumb'rlng below;
“ 'Twill be always so ! ” lb sobbed, and listened at
conch and at bed,
While the changeless heart through the dreamers’
lips poured the ravening cries ;
*f*hen it flew to the Head once more, and shrilled
through the dark to the skies :
“ 'Twill be always so, 'twill be always so ! "
“ Ard in centuries hence again another race will
rise,
While the clouds will sail above and the waves
will roll below,
- .And proud science, stronger then, will gird it with
flame, and skies
Will be bright with greater gods, who holier
faiths will teach ;
But the changeless heart of man, though it lisp
the holler speech,
Will be always so, will be always so ! "
“ 'Twill heal ways so, while the red sun burns, and
the white moon chills,
And the grim rocks stare, and the hoarse waves
wail in the caves below ”
From the heights and the deptbs shrill voices
rolled : “ Oh, the dark high hills,
And the dark wide seas, and the dark great greed c f
man’s heart we see
As a changeless, changeless, changeless, un-
changeable Trinity I
'Twill be always so, ’twill be always eo I ’’
E. LOWE.
Sydney.
Ihe No. 1 North Gympie Phoenix Mine
Gympie, Q .has pai 1 altogether dividends amount -
ing to £29f 000
At Rockhampton (Q ), last Thursday, a
book-canvasser sued two women for the price (£
two hunks ot drivel which he had induced them to
order, and a fatherly old beak, hlght Lukin, found
a verdict that they ought to have set the dog on
him, and ordered him to pay the costs. The book
fiend riled up at this, and said that hfs employer
was a most respectable man, api| a member of tbo
N. S. W. Parlia ment; and the magistrate rt m arkt d
that perhaps the dog should have been set on him
also. We call this a very shabby way to treat any
decent dog.


LOOK Olir FOB
“THE BULLETIN’S ” ANTI-CHINAMAN.
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please
mail their orders at once,
PRICE -SIXPENCE.
HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
The moment Bligh landed, Macarthar
made an attempt t j secure his influence. He tells
the story himself. He says he wanted to interest
the Governor in the sheep and cattle question, on
the ground of the public good of the colony. But
Bligh had heard of Mr. Macarthur, and he saw
through the cunning device at a glance. His high
temper found vent, and this was certainly a fair
opportunity for its exercise. He saw that Mac-
arthur’s wily pourparlers had as much benevo-
lence behind them as his proposal to relieve the
Government stores of the maintenance of a num
ber of convicts by paying them bread-rate fo
their labour, and the bluff seaman naturally re
t olted at the knavery, “ What have Ito do with
your sheep, sir ?” he bawled at the disappointed
schemer. “ What have Ito do with your cattle
Are you to have such flocks of sheep and herds o
cattle as no man ever heard of before? No, sir 1’
“ I endeavoured,” says Macarthur, with innocuou
mildness, “ to appease him, saying taat I under
stood the Government at home had particular!;
re'ommended me to his nodes. He replied, ‘
have heard of your concerns, sir ; ycu have go
5000 acres of land in the finest situation in the
country, bub, by , you shan’t keep it!”
This is Macarthur's own version of what took
place, yet it shows how accurately Bligh s rough
honesty had seised itself of the position. Bu
Macarthur did keep the land—to have and to hold
by him and his heirs forever.
• * *
Biigh’s instructions were to stop the traffic
in rum within the colony by every means in his
power. They are dated May 25, 1805, under the
sign-manual, from St. James’, and they enlarge on
the “ great evils that have arisen from the un-
restrained importation of spirits.” He was en
joined “ on pain of our utmost displeasure ” to
allow no spirits to land without his consent and
to stop the exchange of rum for daily neces-
saries. He arrived in 1806, and early nest year
he issued a General Order, threatening 100 lashes
to any convict and three months’ imprisonment
and a £2O fine to any settler who bartered rum for
food or clothing. Lord Castleraagh expressly ap-
proved of these measures, and conveyed to Bligh
the expression of the royal approbation. Another
matter in which Bligh earned the Minister's
thanks was his action in relieving serious dis-
tresses caused in the Hawkesbury district by the
floods of 1806. Provisions reached exorbit mt
prices, coarse meal and flour being half-a-orown
per pound and the two-pound leaf selling at 5 \
Bligh personally visited the breadless homes,
slaughtered the Government cattle, and
divided them among the starving people,
and encouraged them to set to work
again by offer!eg fair prices for the crops they
m'ght grow. He saw that the results of the
settlers' labour were minimised by the fact that
the officers who ruled the market charged ruinous
rates of exchange for what they had to sell. He
therefore opened the King's Stores at Sydney i o
the settlers, and supplied them with what they
required, to be paid for in produce at the follow-
ing harvest. The cottiers began to hope that a
new state of things was about to rule In the
colony ; but the New South Wales Corps had to
be reckoned with yet.
* * *
It soon became apparent to Bligh that the
task of reform in the settlement would be met at
every stage by the interests of the officers. Their
rascally trade would be interfered with by every
measure the Governor might take to make the
settlers’ lob more easy. Their influence was
great, for they had the power of the Corps at
their back. Tne rank-and-file shared the insolence
of their officers, and Bligh soon found moral and
material progress entirely blocked by this fine
body of men. He wrote homo in 1807 with a
complaint to thin effect, and added, ‘About 70 of
the privates were originally convicts, and the
whole are eo very much engrafted with that order
of persons, as in many instances have
had a very evil tendency, and, it is to
be feared, may hereafter lead to serious conse-
quences, more particularly from their improper
connection with the women.” This is not as lucid
as it is true, but then none of the early Governors
were ssleeted for the purity with which they
expressed themselves in their mother-tongue.
Bligh we at on to say that there was no remedy
“ but a change of military duty, a circumstance
which can only prevent a fixed corps becoming a
dangerous militia.” If Bligh had hem deposed for
his feloniously bad English, there is ample justifi-
cation here ; but the reason was a more practical
one than that.
* * *
To prohibit the importation of rum was
easy, but the officers were not so docile as to allow
a step like that to interfere with their dishonest
fortunes. It was one thing to shut rum out of
the colony, and quite another thing to keep people
from making it within. The officers imported
stills, and the last state of the rum traffic became
worse than the first High forbade the distilla-
tion of spirits, and when two stills arrived in 1807
in the Dart, one being for Captain Abbott and one
for John Macarthur, the Governor impounded
them ia the King's store. But the boilers had
been artfully packed full of medicine, and they
were therefore sent to Macarthur’s place. This
occurred in March. In October a ship wa i going
home, and Bligh directed that the stills be put on
board and taken back whence they came. Robert
Campbell, who was the naval officer, made the
demand, and Macarthur replied, saying that he
had nothing to do with Abbott’s st’ll, and he vas
going to sell his own to some ship going to China.
The Governor ordered the stills to be sent to Eng-
land at once, Macarthur then cavilled about the
receipt, and told the nephew of the harbour-
master to take the stifis at his own risk. He took
proceedings against the officer who effected the
seizure, and complained that a British subject, in a
British settlement, under British laws, had had his
property wrested from him on the Governor's
order. He defended the rights of property, and
its privilege to make and to sell rum—for the
boilers were certainly neve* intended to serve as
mere medicine-chests—with a e indignation and
lofty scorn,
» • *
In the course of the following month a
convict escaped by one of Maoarthur s ships. The
owner forfeited a £9OO bond. Macarthur ap-
pealed to the Governor, who deolined to set aside
the Court’s decision. Payment was refused,
whereupon the ship was seized, and the officers
soon found out that they had a firmer man to deal
withthanKing, or Hunter, orPhilliphad been. Mao-
arthur sent the crew on shore, contrary to colonial
regulations. The Judge Advocate summoned
Macarthur to answer in the case, and he declined
to obey ths summons. A warrant was issued for
his arrest, and the Parramatta constable, Oakes,
was charged with its execution. This honest
man had been sent out as a missionary to the
Soffih Seas, but his spiritual ministrations were
not favourably received by the natives of Tahiti,
so they chased him away, and he became the
jKllce-conatable at Parramatta ; catching souls or
bodies was all one to Mr. Oakes. He presented
Macarthur with the warrant “ with many humble
a, ologies Macarthur chased him again, telling
him if he came any more to come armed, and that if
the person who issued the warrant had come—prob-
ably meaning His Honor the Judge-Advocate—he
would have “spurned him from his presence.”
Then he spumed the constable just as the
Tahitians had spurned him before, and gave him
a little note to Mr, Atkins saying that he regarded
his warrant with scorn and contempt, as well as
the persons who directed it to be executed. Oakes
saw the Governor and the Judge-Advocate in
to wn next morning. They spurned him once more,
and sent him back to arrest Macarthur, and lodge
him in gaol. So the chief constable of Sydney
and Mr. Oakes, with three other const >bles who
had not been missionaries, went after Mr. Mao-
arthur with cutlasses, arrested him at a friend’s
house in Sydney, »nd spurned him into prison.
* ♦ •
He was committed for trial next day, but
liberated on bail This was December 17. On
January 25 following, the Criminal Court met,
consisting of the Judge-Advocate and six officers
of the Corps. The officers had laid their plans in
the meantime. The Court was crowded with their
men, wearing side arms. A convict attorney
named Crossley prepared the indictment, as the
Judge-Advocate’s legal knowledge did not extend
beyond sentencing prisoners. A series of horrid
crimes and misdemeanours were charged against
Macarthur. As soon as the Court was constituted
tne defendant objected to the Judga-Advccite on,
grounds of personal enmity, bub that officer re
plied that, in the terms of the King's Patent, there
could be no Court witho it him. Captain Kemp
told the Judge he was merely a common juryman,
and the officers compelled him to leave his seat as
president of the Court, while vfacartliur addressed
those assembled in a wild and excited manrer.
He said that Atkins had “ associated and com
blned with that well-known dismembered limb of
the law, George Crossley,” to accomplish his de-
struction. He added that he had proof in the
writing of Crossley that it was determined to ruin
him. “ This precious document,” he said, “ came
Into my hands as if by the interposition of Divine
Providence ; lb dropped from the pocket of
Crossley, and was brought to me.” Divine Pro-
vidence in this instance was probably the same
power that extracted the papers from Governor
King’s despatch-box —a clever pickpocket,
namely, of the class whose services the officers
had often occasion to use. The person wno
picked Crossley’s papers up where ha so oppor-
tunely dropped them might just as well have
picked his pockets of them at once, though it
might not have been so convenient for Macarthur
to have said so.
* * *
So the drunken Judge and the convict
attorney and the turnkey officers fought amongst
themselves, and the reader to-day may judge, if
he can, what there is to choose among them.
Wten these squalid nscals fall out among them-
selves, we see what kind of creatures they really
are. When Macarthur finished his harangue, the
Judge-Advocate threatened to commit him, bub
Captain Kemp shouted, “ You commit! No, sir, I
will commit you to gaol.” Ths Judge Advocate
then tried to adjourn the Court, and left but
Captain Kemp insisted that the officers were a
Court. Macarthur claimed the protection of the
officers against his enemies. They gave him a
guard, and the Provost-Marshal, Mr Gore, very
properly treated their action as a rescue, and
obtained a warrant for his arrest. The officers
wrote to the Governor, demanding that Atkins
should be replaced by another judge, to which
Bligh replied that it was out of Ms power to super-
sede the King's Commission. 1 The officers repeated
their request, and Bligh asked for the papers.
They refused to sr -'-qly them. Then the Governor
w. ote to Major J^ KE *tone, asking his attendance
under particular pilent »- iumsbanoes. Hereplied,
and said that ha wowes Tmm to came,” and was
unable to write, interest* morning, January 2G,
the Provost arrested Macarthur again, and the
Judge Advocate formally accused the officers to
the Governor, of “ crim s amounting to usurpa-
tion,” and tending to incite rebellion and treason
in the territory B.igh summoned the officers to
appear before him next day, and again summoned
Major Johnstone, and again received a reply saying
that the Major was still “so ill as. to be unable to
write.” But he was not too ill to drive the same 1
afternoon Into Sydney to his barracks, where the
officers met him, and persuaded him to usurp the
government of the colony. The New South
Wales Corps formed, and, with drums beating
and colours flying, marched upon Government
House.
The following, cub from Mr. A. W. Stir-
ling’s book “The Never Never Lani, ’ published a
few years ago in London, refers to Mr. Wi liam
Pritchard Morgan, the Queenslander who has
caused suoh a sensation iu Great Britain by his
alleged extensive gold dirooveries In Wales
“Among the characters of Queensland, well
known from Sydney iu the South to Caoktown
or Thursday Island in the North, was a solicitor,
at the time of my Australian trip, practising his
profession at Charters To vrers, whenever he was
not more profitably occupied in amusing his
friends with a song or a story, or, better still, in-
vesting his hard-earned money iu some reef which
was sure to dra v a blank. To this gentleman 1
had a letter of introduction from a friend now
dead, and to his kindness and hospitality I am
greatly Indebted far my pleasant visits to Char-
ters Towers.
“ One often meets strange mixtures of genius,
wit, and recklessness, in wandering about the
world, but M—— was Che strangest, the most
amusing, and the moab daring I ever saw. He
would work for a week to earn a cauple of hun-
deed pounds, and invest the whole of It in the
first mine that anybody recommended the next
day. Ho would say the smartest things on the
spur of the moment, yet was Incapable of remem-
bering the names of the mines he was interested
in. He could hob-nob with a host of working
miners on terms of the closest friendship in the
afternoon, and come to a select party of ladies
like a ‘ man to the manner born,’ in the evening.
M was tha very George Lewis of Queensland.
No criminal who could afford the luxury would
ever have dreamt of being defended by any other
man in the North of the colony ; if a coach and
four could be driven through an Act of Parlia-
ment, M was the man to do the deed ; if a
man was wanted to make a social evening amus-
ing, M had no rival.
MR. W. PRITCHARD-MORGAN.
“ As he used to say, with a smile, mining owed
him £20.000, and there was ezery proba-
bility of that sum being doubled if he only lived
long enough. Everyone at Charters Towers, in-
cluding M : hlmeeP, has some amusing story
ta tell about the little man. One of the best came
t) me from an insurance-agent, who had to collect
M 's premium
‘ ‘ This was, of course, always behind time, and
only extracted with great difficulty and much
grumbling. On one occasion, after four or five
unsuccessful applications, my friend, the agent,
was astonished one morning very early by ths
advent of M ’s clerk in a great hurry, with a
cheque for the money due. Of a truth, thought
the agent, the world must be coming to an end,
when M is in such a hurry to pay his debt®.
He took the money, however, and walked up the
street to tell the extraordinary news to an Ac-
quaintance, only to learn that M was sup-
posed to be dying, having been taken suddenly
ill in the night. On my chaffing M about this
story, he laughed, and said that as soon as he
came to himself in the morning his first thought
had been about his life policies, and that he had
better pay up the premiums before the news of his
idness got about. He, therefore, dispatched the
clerk with a cheque, and seemed very hurt that
the money had been so badly spent; indeed, his
recovery is to this day one of his grievances.
“I remember, too, a not unamusing ‘yarn’
which M tolls about a Queensland judge, now
dead, who numbered among his other amiable
weaknesses, the not uncommon failing among
judges of prosing over his own hobbles.
“ M was conducting a case for a client, and
in the course of his duty, placed a witness in the
box whose name was ‘ Inch.’ The judge caught
the name as ‘ Inc?,’ and at once wandered off into
a long story about a family he had known in Eng-
land cf that name, and congratulated the witness
upon being probably connected with such a good
old stock.
“ Poor M , who saw the mistake, In vain
tried to stop the old man's torrent of eloquence,
and several times interrupted him wUh * No, your
Honor, the witness’s name is ‘ Inch,’ without
producing the desired effect. At last, in despera-
tion, he spelt the name, ‘I N-C-H—lnch,’ and at
length it dawned upon the poor judge that he had
beenmaklngafoolof himself. He wasnot,however,
to be easily upset, but with a face ot the utmost dis-
gust exclaimed : ‘ Inch 1 What! Twelve of them
to a foot! Let the witness step down,’ and, despite
all M 's remonstrances, nothing could induce
the old man (so M says) to listen to another
word the witness had to say.”
The rights of a portable electric light for
the use of miners have boen purchased for Australia
by Miss Cornwall, the mining speculator.
The New Holland (pawn) Ticket: — Yote
for Mitchell and “Uncle” Abigail. Advance
Austra’ia 200 per ehent, and no dishcount.
At last the long-kept secret of the reason
if Mr. James Exhibition Thompson's visit to Eng-
land is out. He has just sounded a gold-mining
boom in the British Capital. Capital, £lOO,OOO.
There are two professed teetotallers at the
Victorian Bar. One ot them—Dr. Maokay—
actually flaunts a blue rag in his buttonhole. The
statement that a man named Mac has ahj ured
whisky may seem incredible, but it is true.
n*ve the working men of Newtown be-
come so low and degraded that they will vote for
Mitchell, whose chief supporter is Francis Abigail,
director of a pawnshop which grinds the facss of
the poor, and coins gold from the blood of a hard-
up drayman, by lending him money at 130 per
cent, on readily-convertible security ?
J. W. Abigail, of Newtown, remarks in
the Sydney D T. that “it is useless to quarrel with
the inevitable, and we must be satisfied with
things as they are.” This, wa may observe, is
the sort of philosophy with which the usurer
always comforts the cFent whom he has had on
toast for a hundred and shixty per shent.
The N.S.W. Freetraders profess a desire
for intercolonial Freetrade. That, it must be ad-
mitted by everyone, can only be brought about
when the fiscal sjstems of the colonies shall have
been closely assimilated. And this assimilation
must be effected on a Protectionist and not upon a
Freetrade basis. That Freetrade is doomed in
N.S.W. must be obvious to even the meanest in-
telligence. A cause, like an individual, grows
stronger or weaker, fatter or thinner, as the years
roll on. Freetrade has got thin in every country
in the world bat England. It bas grown poor and
weak in all the Australian colonics, Including its
last stronghold, N.S.W. A few years ago, there
were but two Protectionists in the N. S. W. Legis-
lative Assembly ; a year or two later there were
seven, in another year or two there were 20, and
in still another year or two there were 40, who
are there now. If the electors of Newtown want
to be on the gaining side, let them vote for Smith,
and strike out Mitchell.
CORRESPONDENCE
W. Thursby : You seem to think, as all Tories
do, that when Gladstone dies the Home Rule cause will be
doomed. But, as a matter of fact, Gladstone dead will bo
unre potent than Gladstone alive in thee.use of Democracy.
Why, look at your fetich, Disraeli. He never had the power
vheu alive that he has had Eiroe S S.: Parkes is alleged
to have publicly applied the epithet to Jennings on one occa
sion. There is not such a heap of h’rm in it. As Dr. John-
son says, it is merely ‘a term of endearment among sailors
—only for ‘ sailers ’ read politicians W.L.: Same old
ghost-story. The family-cat with her head in a salmon-tin.
... Observer: Sheer idiocy. ..6.K.T. : We decline to say.
....Queenslander: Salaries of Australian Governors ;
Queensland, £5000; N.S.W, £7000: Victoria. £lO,OOO
S. Australia, £5000; W. Australia, £2500; Tasmania, £5OOO
N. Zealand, £7500. Agent-General's D p rtmenlQueens
land (ii. eluding cleiical, engineering and < mil ration branches),
£5319; N.S.W. ( minus emigration), £3600; Victoria, £4220
S.A , £3630; W.A., £1850; Tasmania (two Crown Agents)
N.Z., £1250 and secretary... W,K.: Gjod item....W, JM.
(Bligh-street): Will notice next week...,Cerberus (Albury)
Received... .L L.: What’s sauce for Dilke should be sauce
for Hughes-Hallett....E. Watson (Newtown): The ring who
constitute the N.S. Wales 1 Freetrade’ party are, every one
of them, land-sharks, land-jobbers, usurers, syndicate-pro-
moters, or privileged lawyers who deny other men the pro-
tection they themsilves enjoy. Was it such a party who, in
Victoria, brought about the payment of members and the
taxing of the big estates? Was it not the Freetrade crowd
who fought against Berry to the political death and opposed
the will of the people to the very verge of civil war ? Rightly
or wrongly, deny it who may, the cause of Protection is, in
Australia, the cause of the Democracy; and the cause of
Freetrade that of land-monopoly and class-domination
[Many communications crowded out.]
The Statue.
(BY HENRY HALLORAN, C.M.G.)
[From an Ode on the occasion of laying the
Foundation-stone of the Statue of the Queen.]
Here where Her Royal Consort's Statue stands,
Above the passing throng
All the day long,
Uttering* His mild commands :
Here, where the multitude,
On festal days,
Rooks up and says,
" Albert the Good,”
And each in spirit prays—
Good is to be Great;
Such be my child, O God, whatever be my fate,"
Here place we now
The we ided statue to complete the scene:
Here, ere we bow
Within each neighbouring shrine,
Place we our Queen;
And each in silence vow
*' to se>ve, for Her God shall be mine,
And Sue my Queen.”
If in our hearts we hold
Her stainless image—need we this to tell
Of what we all hold dear?
But should our hearis grow cold,
la some remoter year—
Or if they should rebel,
What dread reproach should we not gasce on here
How gaze and be untrue—
How owe nor pay as due ?
Then set it up on high, my friends, on high,
And let each passer-by
Say to himself, in journeying on his way,
It was a blessed day
When She, Victoria, in her maiden pride,
Came to hold sway
Over Her mighty Empire free and wide; ”
So Heavea guard Her still;
Heaven guide her righteous will;
For this, do we and all Her subjects pray !
Then one cheer more,
Till oyer sea and shore
The distant echoes fide and pass away.
THAT IMAGE.
(THE BULLETIN VERSION.)
Here where the fctfl.ua of the Gorman,
That very henpecked prince,
Defunct long since,
Preaches his silent sermon ;
Here where the careless crowd
Who lounge and smoko
Say, “ Poor old bloke !
He’s in his shroud,”
And cut some ribald joke
About the weary life
That, rumour sajs, he lived with his illustrious
wife -
Here we've put the Queen,
Who married him for better or for wor e ;
These two between
Rough-handed labouring chaps
Pause, just to curse
All cringing flunkies mean—
Then turn away to breathe a prayer, perhaps,
For The Bdllyteen.
If we hold Freedom dear
We scorn this image ; there the thing re nains—
A Tory token to remind
That we have cause to fear
1 he traitors who’ve designed
To tighter draw our chain?.
What dread reproach do we not gaze on herb
Would people really tree
Stand statues of Queen Y. ?
So, let each passer-by of this big, bro: '/.ed lie
Say, “ Gammon I All my eye !
The world has grown wiser sines tho day
When Vicky, young and gay,
Deposited a crown upon her head
And fools cried * Hooray 1 ’
For soon we’ll set up Liberty instead;
Then Albert and the Queen
Will vanish from the scene ;
For this do we end all Australians pray,
Though images like these
Please drivelling C.M.G.’s,
We’ll live to sse both carted clean away.”
The present Emperor of Ge many, early
in 1814—that la, before he had com dated his 17th
year took part in one of the Rhine campaigns
against the French. He accompanied the allied
sovereigns on their entry into Paris, and so has
been to Paris twice as a conqueror.


“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. A scot
Vale St akkp, run March 3rd. Ihe Sydney Cup
run Easter Monday, April 2nd. Each 3000 sub-
scribers 20i. each. First horse, £1,500 ; second,
£6OO ; third, £3OO ; starters, £3OO ; non-starters,
£3OO, divided amongst them. Tne Australian
Jockey Club Plate run April 7tb, 1888. 3000
subs., 10s. each. First horse, £7OO ; second,
£200; third, £lOO ; starters, £l5O ; non starters,
£l5O, divided amongst them. Also one hundred
Cash awards of £2 each. Please apply early,
and registrar all letters to ensure safe delivery.
Address, “Australia,” care of Mr, H. Dalveen,
Victoria Cafd Hotel, George-streeb, Sydney,
N.S.W.*
Dr. Canny, late Surgeon Royal Artillery and H.M. 11th
Regiment, L.R.C.P.. L M..M.EO S., England Registered
in Great Britain and N.S.W. 61 Wentworth Court Cham
hers, Elizabeth-etreet (ground floor). Specialist in Diieaaea
of the Liver Kidneys, Ac. Dr. Oannt s long lerrioe in the
Tropic*, Ac ha* afforded him *peoial experience in the
treatment the above mentioned diieaiei.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
TfIXATRM ROYAL—" Mikado —— —— —— --B- 14
Orxtkrion Theatre.—“Dick" ..... ■■
Her Majesty's Theatre.—"ln The Ranks"--.- ■■
ALHAMBRA Music Hall —Sacred Concert ----- ■
ALHAMBRA Music Hall—Minstrelsy ■■
There’s a burst of airy music at the gay Criterion,
Where the critics are all sitting upon young
“ Dick Whittington ; ”
'Tis a tale of deep devotion shown in new fantastic
lights,
And illumined by the presence of an emperor In
tights.
He has f»thornless designs upon a maiden dressed
in blue,
Who is kidnapped in a mud-barge by a wild, vin-
dictive crew,
And who mourns her melancholy fate in poetry's
airy flights,
Which move the scornful laughter of the monarch
clad in tights.
Her lover, too, along with her, in chains Is dragged
away
Through the scheming of an admiral with morals
gone astray—
A Terror of the Saas who bears the scars of fifty
fights,
Through which he’s borne the banner of the
potentate in tights.
At times the songs are shipwrecked on the high
tumultous C,
And the founde-ed bark of rythm is lost on the
waves of melody,
And the opera tenters as it strives to scale weird
Fancy's heights,
But still it’s shored up grimly by the emperor in
tights.
The rovers of the ocean are profane, to say the
least,
Their path is strewn with carcases of gentlemen
deceased,
And their songs are like the croaking of the car-
rion crows and kites
When they sing in dismal chorus to the despot
clad in tights.
The admiral's a comic man, the funniest of the
crew;
He is short and grim and tragic, and his nose is
purple-blue;
His head is red, his bilious eye with awful frenzy
lights.
And he treats with sags and insolence the buc-
caneer in tights.
The ladies are as beautiful as any girls you’ll see,
Though the melodies they warble are as common
as can be.
And the scenery Is fairy land all strewn with
fairy lights
Which reflect the dismal visage of the emperor in
tights.
Emma Temple, Fanny Robinrr, and several ladles
more
Are harassed by a fland who wants to wallow in
their gore ;
But we rise to move, In deference to Beauty’s
sacred rights.
That he should tread instead upon that sovereign
In tights.
For though Brough and Royce are wanted in this
world of care and woo,
We can spare this precious opera, atd be glad to
see it go;
And the Hottentot who wrote it, if he other
screeds indites,
Will please leave out for evermore that potentate
in tights.
** # *
Saturday’s sensation at Sydney Academy
was a conundrum which one cf the sable warriors
dashed off in a moment of Inspiration : “ What is
the difference,” ho asked, “between an amateur
eka f er and Jack M’Elhone ?” Then ho waited till
the audience had simmered up to an awful pitch
of expectancy, and ween the excitement had
almost reached the point when an insurrection
might be looked for, he explained : “ Because one
skates and falls, while ihe other skites and bawls.”
We Eire of opinion that the hor curable member
has scope here for a libel action, which will
cripple the whole Federal show in damages.
** * *
Last Tuesday George Rignold reached his
fiftieth night with ‘ la the Ranks” at Her
Majesty's (Sydney), and ether managers who can’t
draw such crowds murmur discontentedly about
whatatailourcat’sgot. Barren Carrington is to fall
into the premises next Friday, and lend the illu-
mination of his yawn. The beautiful “lolanthe ”
will be put on at the Pcyal next Saturday, with
Maggie Moore as the Fairy Queen and Leonora
Braham as Phyllis. “Faust’ is earning the ap-
plause and the coin it deserves at the Gaiety, and
should have a long run in a c’.ty where people
don’t believe much in perdition. Other entertain-
ments are comparatively dull. The aquariums
all keep up, and there is a scheme on foot for
raising a monument to Daniel Hinry Dlniehy. At
Coogee Mr. Smith undertakes to skate over 10
chairs ; Mr. Eastwood is shortly to have a benefit
in “ Richelieu’’ at the At hen mum Hall, Waverley,
and one or two men 1 ava had their legs cut off in
various parts of Sydney. A grand bicycle tourna-
ment for ladies comes off by electric light at the
Afchfield Recreation Grounds on Thursday, Fri-
day, and Saturday evenings. When the darlings
drop off they will fall softly on to their back-hair.
** ♦ *
A “ Centenary Universal Exhibition,”
which seems to bo about as much behind the
times as an attempt to collect a bill from a dead
man, is to open in the Sydney Exhibition Build-
ing, Prince Alfred Park, on March 11. It will ba
as universal as space will permit, and as cen-
tenary as the state of the calendar will allow.
Baron Smith-Garirgton will open the proceedings,
and the performance will also be adorned by the
white head cf Parkes, and countenanced by the
presence of almost every other public man who is
sufficiently s iber to appear, together with some
“distinguished members of both Houses.” This
designation is comprehensive enough to include
every politician who hasn’t been recently licked
and used to wipe up the floor with. Two new an-
nexes are being built, and the premises will bo lit
with electricity. Also, the Park will be illu-
minated twice a week, and there will be sundry
displays of fireworks to help an impacunious
public to forgot the bills they owe.
** * *
“ Sophia ” is still a source of great attrac-
tion at the Adela'de Koyal, and the season, so far,
has been one of the most successful known. “ The
School for Scandal” is the next production.
Tommy Hudson, at ter an exceptionally lucrative
season of seven months at Garner’s Theatre, an-
nounces his last nights, a tour in the country fol-
lowing, Mr, O, S. Sanderson, the business agent,
waa presented with a watch and chain a few
evenings ago. They were only silver. Still it
was better than getting a Waterbury.
** * *
Charles Warner opened at Melbourne
Royal, on Saturday, and carried a packed audience
by storm. His Coupaau took their fancy when he
waa sober, won their heart? as he became be-
sotted with bad brandy, and finally died of D.T.
amid murmnrs, shouts, and whistles of admira-
tion. To accomplish all this in a repulsive, dis-
jointed, long-winded, stale, old sermon like
“Drink” was something to be proud of, but the
new star took bia triumph with an artistic modesty
worthy of notice. It is because of his likeable—
not to say loveable—style that Mr. Warner can
do so much with this same part of Coupeau, and
contrives to be an object of sympathy right away
through. Yet, so simple and commonplace ia bia
method of getting tight, that the weak wretch
never appears to ask for your pity, until the
awful moment when he sees green alliga-
tors chasing blue tigers a’ong the kitchen
floor, and a swarm of magenta rats fasten
their teeth in his twitching flesh. Mr. Warner
used to be a great actor In hia great part—now
he is rather greater than he used to be. And if
any man denies this sublime truth he can die in
his boots like Ananias. But “ Drink” isn't a
greater play than it used to be, not by any means,
rather let us say that it seemed less aggravating a
few years ago. The author might have white-
washed Zola’s novel without destroying its moral
in a stupid seventh act of his own manufacture,
or lugging in a temperance spouter. There is no
moral to “ Drink ” as it stands, except that a man
who signs the pledge is bound to die of the jumps,
leaving his starving widow to marry a cold-water
apostle in affluent circumstances. The boys in
the gallery and the old squatters
In the circle (also their ladies)
don't require a temperance-
lecture from Gouget while poor
Coupaan is touching them on
the raw ; but if the Trium-
virate will let an Accident In-
surance canvasser rush on and
take Conpean's “risk,” after his
sawdust dummy has fallen from
a scaffolding without getting
hurt, then they will confer a rea),
benefit on the Australian work-
ing-man. Gaorge Darrell might
fix that idea into a drama and
get a heavy subsidy from an
Insurance Company. ’Tis a
valuable hint. There will be
further opportunity for saying
something nice about Misses
Isabel Morris, Watt-Tanner,
Emma Chambers, and othor
members of a strong company
—also for suggesting that
Lautier had batter be stabbed
in the liver (another outrage
on “ L’Assommoir ") before the
play commences. The wash-
house hot and scenery
generally, ia excel ent, and
“Drink” will sell freely at the Royal for some
time to come. But it is too full cf awful i ean-
leg to euit many toaey patrons of the dress-circ'e,
who know all about the jim-jams without going
to the the-a-ter.
** * *
Essie Jenyns and Co. broke out in “Aa
You Like It" on Saturday, and now the ghost of
W. Shakespeare, armed with a club, is enquiring
for several people at the Bijou stage-door. U o to
a certain point Misi Etsie confirmed her Juliet
claims to the favour of a susceptible multitude,
but an idea is gaining ground in Melbourne that
she must get a new voles somehow Saturday's
meeting decided that Rosalind was like an angel
talking through a muffled trombone, or a fairy
whispering down a gas-pips Nevertheless, there
was no getting away from her gallant bearing as
a boy, and her power to appear delightful to the
ravished eye all the t’me That gathering to-
gether of humanity which is described as “ M r .
Holloway’s talented company,” never scored a
point all night, and it was melancholy to see a
nice young man like Mr. Inman crushed by the
cap and bells of Touchstone. If “As You Like
It” catches on very badly the fact shall be duly
et forth In these columns.
** * *
“Dorothy” redivivxcs keeps Melbourne
Princess’s in a congested condition. Mr. St. Maur
is holding his own with a nervous grip at the
Alexandra, and Professor Kennedy continues to
clear his modest expenses at the Opera House. The
three or four youths who have loaned their valu-
able carcases to the Professor don’t leek as well as
they did before they were tested at the private
show. But they stick bravely to their job, and
volunteer to go upon the plat orm with monoto-
nous regularity. O her entertainments are gather-
ing in the golden corn through pigeon-holes.
** * *
Kate Bishop wears a silver bracelet on
her left arm, night and day. Her only sister
locked it there before leaving her to go to America
to get married. The ship went down with all
hands, and the key is with the drowned girl.
** * *
Poor old Chippendale, one of the most
useful comedy actors of an extinct school, died
last month. He was 87, and had been a little
“ off” for five years. Mrs. Chippendale, the old
boj’s buxom second wife, who came out herewith
Marie de Grey, is playing in America with
Irving’s company.
** * *
The Otago Witness (N.Z.) thinks that
one of the nastiest things goieg is to be a professor
of mesmerism, and to raise money by shovitg
people into trances and then making them eat
candles and chew raw herrings on the stage. It
is of opinion that Professor Kennedy, who is row
doing these things in Melbourne, will shortly leave
the fctsge cn his head. A Wellington (N. Z.) critic
says that ‘Uncle Tom’s CUbin,” aa played by
Carrie Swain, is “ a cross between a variety show
and a circus, with a lot of darned cheek slung in."
The sort of man who writes this would probably
sit on Bacon (late Shakespeare) because ho didn’t
put a detective on to Brutus in time to save Ceesar.
At an English theatre recently a dude threw a
bouquet at a favourite lady, and his cuff went
alorg with it. The bouquet fell at her feet, and
the cuff landed in her eye. It is doubtful if she
will ever see with that eye again. The Prince of
Wales has a gorgeous privato smoking-room at the
new Empire Theatre in Leicester Square,London,
and he comes in with a big cigar to watch the ballet.
Bisgroatfatherly heart yearns over the billot-girls.
An American paper states that John Rrgers, the
other fellow of Minnie Palmer, has caught a cold
which may possibly prove fatal. It attributes this
“ to his hanging about the doors of the theatres,
attired In a vest out much lower than the state of
the weather and decency required," We would
feel sorry for John Rogers if we didn’t sus-
pect it was all an advertisement. Sir Graham
Berry is endeavouring to secure Strauss, the well-
known musician, to conduct the band at the
Melbourne Exhibition. A It-ft. shark has been
captured and placed in the Manly Aquarium.
There was a young man at Sydney Royal the
other night who professed to be prematurely old
in the ways of the world, and he had along with
him a freshly-caught girl from Jamberoo, who
was obviously awed by his knowledge of the way
people went on in great cities. When Maggie
Moora' came on as Katisha he said loudly :
“ Here's Kelly, Loo—here’s the Mikado.” His
subsequent downfall was pitiable. Charles
Warner’s real baptismal name Is said to be Lick-
fold. We often forget our name ourselves, and
have to go into a public-house to look at the mark
on our collar. Herr Bandmann, the star who
received so much amiable derision in Australia,
is now rearing live stock in Montana (U.S). It is
lonely there, but still he has the society of the pigs.
Hawtrey has made £75,000 out of the “ Private
Secretary." This is a little more than he made at
Maryborough (Q.) when he was up there some
years ago. He bought the gates at a local race-
meeting for £lOO, and realised exactly £1 profit.
From this it will be seen that every man who
can't make money on a racecourse should go away
and write a comedy. A Sydney theatrical manager
was lecturing his chorus-girls the other day about
the gloomy, chief-mourner-like expression they
always wore, and, finding that they didn’t
brighten up worth a cent, he danced furiously on
his hat and screamed : “ Great Scott 1 Is fliiere
nothing on earth that can liven you up, you pack
of ghastly ghosts ? What would you do if I raised
your salaries 1” All the girls laughed at the idea
except one, who, in a still small voice, replied,
'ft*"'
\\w^
dfs
w* t .
THE STRAIGHT TIP FOR NEWTOWN.
“ We’d drop dead, sir.” The rehearsal closed
abruptly. D’Aroy Stanfield and Co. are doing ex-
tensive biz. at Brisbane. Miss Julia Simmons has
got married Amy Horton has been presented by
prostrate admirers with a gold bracelet as heavy
as a prayer-meeting, and the recherche Ij’Arcy
has been the recipient of a flashing diamond-
ring which the uncle of the human
race would advance £5 on any day. A
certain Sydney theatrical production is under
tho distinguished patronage of “ His Excellency
the Right Hon. Baron Carington. P.C., G.C.M.G..
and suite ” And suite ! Good g-acious ! J. W.
Badge, the theatrical agent and husband of
Flora Anstead, has suicided. Vale J, W. 1 He
was a good-hearted fellow and about the
cleverest theatrical Dodge in all Australia. Tes
a pro. ex-agent for the Majeronis, is bringing out a
French comedy company to pi ay in Melbourne
during the Centennial Exhibition. A similar at-
tempt was made at the Nngget Theatre in 1880,
and George Collins Levey and J. J. Casey used to
go there- “ and laugh like Sheol,” to quote the
words of a critic of tho period. Some amateurs
were playir g recently at a place called Glandore
(Eng.) when the audience fell through. The
whole floor gave way at once, and they fell witl;
a sull thickening dud -we mean a dull, sickening
thud—into the rellar. New York critics saj
(hit the new star, Genevieve Lybton, travels on
her head, Mary Anderson on her face, Mrs. Brown
Potter on her ohoek. and that Mrs. Langtry
travels on the bust. Oily Deerlng, the comedian,
has taken to stock-broking,
Referee
By what earthly proceta has Harry Boyle
managed to “ fake’'his way into the Australian
Eleven 1 Boyle was never better than a second-
rater in his best day, and that was many a week
since. There are scores of young players who
would improve every hour of the trip, whilst
Boyle cannot possibly get better, but in all proba-
bility will get worse.
* * *
The Australian Eleven will make their
debut against Lillywhite’s team at Sydney Asso-
ciation Ground.
* * *
LJlywhite intends to bring along his foot-
bailers, in spite of cabbage-garden opposition,
Stoddart, of Vernon’s cricket-team, will in all pro
bability stay behind, and make the tour with them,
* • *•
The N.S. W. Cricket Association netted
over £933 as their proceeds of the late Inter-
colonial. How the Ground people must “giill"
at handing It over!
• • •
The Port Jackson Swimming Club in
future will present any member saving a life with
a gold medal. This will encourage “ pot-huntirg ”
of the right sort.
♦ * #
A cricket match is to be organised for the
benefit of disabled Billy Bates.
* * *
What are those clubs who planked down
their £2O for the right to practise on Sydney
Association Ground during the present season to
get in return for their money ? Up to the present
the ground has been so taken np with matches of
one sort and another that on.|y on an odd day now
and then have the players teen able to get a
game. The foe charged (£2O; is, in common with
all fees charged by the trustees, exorbitant, with
all privileges given In, but when the sum is
charged with scarcely any return, it would appear
that the playing cricketers are an easy-going
crowd with a vengeance.
* * *
After the big fight, Smith and Kilrain
I gave a nightly “three rounds," for which they
received £lOO a night.
i * * *
Hanlan is credited with saying that the
Nepean course is the best in the world.
* * *
The Era was again to the front on Satur-
day in Sydney Harbour, when she appropriated
Brassey’s Cup from the Sao, Sirocco, Iclanthe,
and Assegai.
* * *
Wars and rumours of wars amongst the
pugs. Foley has backed himself for £25 to knock
Fogarty out iu fix rounds. Foley offers to back
Dooley to fight Jack Burks to a finish ia public
for £2OO ; and Peter Jao son to fight Slavin at
Albury for £250 aside. There is also talk of a
meeting between Costello and Fogarty “to a
finish.”
* * *
Kenny and Cavill have at last been
matched to swim for the Australian Champion-
ship and £5O aside.
* « •
Blayney (N.S.W.) it n’t a place of any par-
ticular importance, but the Inhabitants are fes-
tive in inverse ratio to tbeir numbers, and they
advertise a lengthy programme of sports and some
handsome prizes for Easter Monday, April 2.
The most striking event on the list is a publicans’
race, at which all bungs within a radius of 30
miles are invited to compete and reduce their
superfluous fat. A race frr pawnbrokers has
somehow been overlooked.
* • *
Even in batting c'rclea we find that “ the
Queen is liberally supported.” Everybody con-
spires to give that old lady a shove along.
* * *
Don’t forget that Oarlyon is the best of
White's lot, and will, all going well, start first
favourite for the Australian Cup.
• * *
If Shrewsbury’s team meet the Australian
Eleven on a good wicket back the Englishmen.
And if the wicket is bad, put your linen on the
Australians.
* * *
Dear Mister Burke,
Like lazy Turk,
Are you just now behavin’ ; »
Ic seems you shirk
All heavy work,
And won’t go in for Slavin,
* * *
Kilrain, until his recent fight with Smith,
had never been in a prizs-ring or seen a fight 'with
bare knuckle?.


Pepper
And
Salt
There is a current impression among the
ignbranc public that a cavalry soldier is invari-
ably, as his n me implies, a mounted warrior ;
but in England, at all events, this isn’t necessarily
the case. Oai of 18,000 alleged cavalry 6800 men
have n > ho sea, so that this branch of the service
is ready divided into horse and foot cavalry, and
is fur her subdivided owing to the fact that some
of ts e horse cavalry can’t ride, and some of the
foot cavalry can, hut don't get the chance. The
walking hussars who can’t ride are further divided
into those who know a horse when they see it and
those who don t, and the latter sub division con-
sists of two classes, viz , the e who have seen
a horse but oan’c remember what It is like,
and those who have never seen a horse, and who
mig-it possibly recognise the animal if they had a
vew o it The horse cavalry who can’t ride also
form two classes, ths first consisting of those who
are thrown off; and the second, and larger, class of
thorn who can’t get on, while the division which
can ride is separated in o those who bold to the
front of the saddle and those who trust in Provi-
dence and only clutch at the tail in an emergency.
This last section is the one on which the country relies
in its hour of need, and when the troops charge
in the van of the battle, with the foot horsemen —
or pedestrian cavalry, as they might more properly
be called—running behind, it is time for the
enemy to skip, if he doesn’t want to be pulverised.
«- « •
Baron Brassey is still busy in London
giving points to the authorities on Australian
topics, and his name promises to be writ large in
the history of British lunatics. Ha still acknow-
ledges to having found “traoea” of republican
feeling in the colonies, and in view of this rising
tide of disaffection he urges that the band of one
of the regiments of the Guards should be sent
out to arouse a sentiment of loyalty and to excite
feelings of attachment to the Empire. A man
who takes Brassey's size in hats han't comprehend
any national aggravation which wouldn't be
soothed by the sight of a few m?n in uniform
whopping the big drum and pounding the tom-
tom, and he is fully convinced that all Australia
wants is to be taken notice of by some of the poor
scum who wear coronets. He also thinks it would
be advisable for a prince to come out occasionally
—any size of a prince, for Brassey isn’t particular
aboutdetails —and he recommends that “a colonial
body possessing Imperial functions ” should be
formed in London, The duties of this boiy without
a soul are not specified, but it would probably be a
very convenient institution for Salisbury, who
would only have to run round the corner any time
he wanted a treaty signed. Sundry other fat-
headed deigns have been formulated by Brassey
for smooching the track of Imperialism in the
colonies, but the brass band, the occasional visit
from a princa, and the colonial body with Im-
perial functions, are the things which he regards
as more immediately essential. But the old piok-
and-shovel ba:on didn’o stay long enough in Aus-
tralia to feel the pulse of the people. If he had
he would have ascertained that the one thing
which this continent is yearning for is a cat-show
—a great international cat-show held under royal
auspices. Such a thing would do more to extin-
guish disaffection than even a brass band, and if
it could be combined In, some way with a scheme
for putting the church choirs in tights, the safety
of the Empire would be insured for many years to
come.
♦ * *
This story relates chiefly to a minister of
the Gospsl. His name doesn't matter to any
serious extent, and his ald .-ass isn’t of any
account, especially as he isn’t likely to be there
much longer, owing to circumstances which make
it advisable for him to go away, but It may bs
here set forth that he is a round, podgy, roley-
poley shepherd with a large face and a smile that
hangs down over his neck and extends roun i to
the back part of his teal. He has a church upon
a quiet spot by the saa shore, where the rolling
waves cast up sea-weed and old boots at the door
of the sanctuary, and whsre the asphyxiated dog
rides upon the foaming breakers until they land
him • softly upon the yellow sand with his curly
tail all dishevelled and the bark which used to
echo in the back j ard of that poor worm called
man reduced to eternal silence. Amid these
romantic scenes the paster mused and labo ired
for many years Tho e who were honour, d with
his acquaintance will probably remember having
seen upon the shore sunethug that resembled a
ham lost in thought, and those who were only
casually known to him wifi also recollect him
because he was a man who if anyone saw him
once and wanted to meet him again but didn’t do
ib he vsouldnt lose so much as he might have
imagined at fne time He answered this descrip-
tion mot e than any other man in the locality, and
consequently he can be easily known by it. In
his best days bo was a pastor of the kissey-
kis-ey, squeezy-squeezy species, and he dabbled a
good deal in medicine. One day last month a lady
who was spiritually birched to his flock was taken
ill through mortification at having subscribed to
tha Parkea Fund, and the little fat prophet called
to see her and inquired closely Into her symptoms.
Then he said cheerfully that he could fix her at
once ; he would just go home and make up a
little prescription of his own which, under Pro-
vidence, would be ins rumental, &0., and a cure
would immediately ensue. So he went round to
the adj . cant chemist and told him to mix up a
little chtt *p stuff of some kind or other, and to put
in something to give it a nice smell, and to add
a tyvhing that he thought mlgut be suitable for a
lady who had been in bed t-*o days, and if he had
something or other about the p uca that people
were accustomed to take whan there wasn’t any-
thing particular the matter with them or any
kind of thing that it might be as well to have in
the house in o.se of anything happening he might
put it,in, too. It was the widest, most compre-
hensive order the chemist had ever received, but
he mixed up a little of everything chat waa handy
on the bottom shelf, and charged 3s. 6d. for the
lot. The adipose howler took off the label when
he got outside, and when he returned to the bed-
side of his patient he told her how ho had dis-
covered this remarks bis remedy, whioh was invalu-
able to every Christian household, and casting his
oyes piously up towards a fly on the ceiling, he said j
that aa a humble toller in the vineyard, he would s
only charge her 16s 6d. But, unhappily, the mixture I
missed fire, and the chemist was hauled out In
the dead of night to look at a lady who was riot-
ing round In an awful state of discomfort, at one
moment knocking her head against the bedpost
and the next putting her feet out of the window
while she balanced herself on her hands upon the
floor, and then, in some new burst of derange-
ment, trying to lift the baby by the tail when she
might have know that it hadn't any. The case
was obviously a desperate one, and as the lady,
when questioned, only answered by screams, th ’
distracted chemist treated her at random far
paralytic hydrophobia, a:d poured medicine
into her till at last she became calm. Whea
the sufferer had finally given up bounding across
the room and he had time to Inquire into
the trouble, he was she wn the bottle of
medicine, and then he explained how a podgy
maniac had caked on him and asked him for a
little of everything, and how, being under the Im-
pression that a secret care was preying on his
mind, and that he wan ed to drown his conscience,
he had charged him 3s, 6d. for a mixture which
would give him three months oblivion from his
sorrows in his efforts to get the taste out of his
month. When he learned, however, that a
minister of the Gospel had made 13s. out of the
transaction he rose up in wrath and said that tha
man who would be guilty of such a sin was
capable of any iniquity and had traces of inoen-
diari-ra and highway robbery concealed beneath
histcalp. The matter waa laid before the 15
deacons of the church, and these sultry Christians
have formally called upon the clergyman to re-
sign, So far he has refused, but the collections
have fallen off so much, and the boys of the
neighbourhood have begun to scra f ch matches oa
the green paint of the church door and upset ash-
barrels in the vestibule at such an awful ra e that
it is evident public opinion is against him, and he
will yet be compelled to skip.
Amongst the members of the present
N.S.W. Parliament there are four Smiths, two
Allens, two Clark as, two Parke ses, two Farnells,
two Wilkinsons, and two Joe Abbetts. Lucki-y,
however, there is only one “ Yooey ” Taylor.
WHAT HE WAS PAID FOR.
“HOW MUCH DO YOU EARN PER DAY?”
“FIVE SHILLINGS.”
“WHAT! FIVE SHILLINGS FOR PLAYING THE ORGAN?”
“NO! FIVAH SHILLING FOR SHUT UP AN’ GO ’WAY.”
The widow and children of Gordon, the
original Mount Morgan mine owner, who sold his
selection (now worth £8,000,000) for £lOO and a
bottle of grog, are now destitute. The present
holders have here a splendid chance of show!eg
their liberality.
W. E. Foxall’s speech on Land Nationah-
ea'ion, delivered at Sydney, NSW,, although
barely referred to by the 1 cal Pies s , was reported
at length in the New York Standard, the “ boss”
organ of Land Nationalisation, and the property
of Henry George. The speech occupies ten
columns.
Mr. Dailey is evidently contemplating a
trip to Europe, where his ornate eloquence will be
considered rather out of date, lut his extreme
love for the Germans, whose “ chivalry and cul-
chaw ” he is never tired of lauding, will commend
him greatly to the Queen and Royal family—
especially Prince Henry of Battenberg.
Mr. Wolfe Fink, LL.B., nicknamed
“Little Parves” from his likeness to that brilliant
hater of the suariter in. modo philosophy, has
written to The Argus deploring the loss of their
two eyes by three Gippsland bullocks, with whom
he travelled in the train from Sale. Wolfe is now
known in Se borne Chambers as “ the working-
bullocks’ friend.”
Since Melbourne Hebald began devoting
so much of its space to the skull-explorations cf
Joe Fraser, the phrenologist, some poor half-
panny-a liners connected with that paper have
tried other occupations. One of the number re
cently mot a team of bullocks “ stuck up ” some-
where in Riverina After the driver had given
vent to all the blasphemy Which is orthodox on
such occasions—bullocks heed nothirg milder—
the ex-pressman said: “ Say, Bnllocky, you
should run an evening paper. You would make
a grand managing editor.” Perhaps he meant
that a certain managing-editor would make a
grand bullock-driver.
ON THE MELBOURNE BLOCK.
Dear Bulletin, — The Catechism says that
the chief end of man is to glorify God, but here in
Melbourne, as of yore, the chief end of woman is
to do the Block, and she does it with the vigour
of a K.C.M.G. touting for subscriptions to the
Imperial Institute. Home life is increasingly at a
discount, and the climate is so glorious that it
tempts people to go out at all times of the day. A
Melbourne wiuter is merely summer with his
overcoat on. The summer is so delightfully
mosaioed with cold days that we have scarcely
time to say “ how hot it la ’’ before the weather
has changed to delicious coolness. The climate is
too variable sometimes —yon would think so to
see the crisp cotton-dresses of girl-blockaders
turned into dripping rags in less than an hour.
A colonial litterateur once proposed in one of his
tales the importation of banshees and other
ancient relics, for the benefit cf the many rich
people who have nothing to do, and are for suffi-
cient reasons unable to spend their time in con-
templating the glories of an ancient lineage; but
the European climate is much damper than ours,
and ghosts in Europe live to a good old age. The
hot winds of Melbourne would be a spectre’s chief
trouble, and would dry up any sanctified ghost to
powder. The other ones might be able to stand
the heat.
* * *
Yes, the dear old-fashioned custom of
“doing the Block” still preval’s. Girls are doing
tha Block who did it ten years ago and who have
each worn out a hundred pairs of boots in vainly
trotting about sf .er the husband who has never
come. Those girls’cheeks used to remind you of
roses ; now they only suggest apricots, and, poor
things!—they look particularly old whea they
laugh. At half pus i four, as in former 4ais,
there takes place on the Block the meeting be-
tween Bertie Jasper (the typical back-clerk),
Signor Baritone (the adored artist), and the
highly-laeed beauties of Melbourne. And, oh I
how the feminine blockaders do squeeze them-
selves into tight dresses I If yon are near a sym-
metrical-looking girl yon can hear a distinct
creaking like that of a tightly girthed horse. In
summer the tight lacing is not so apparent as in
winter, when odd days cf frost or rain compel
blockaders to wear thin and tightly-fitting
j ackets. Then the pressure of whalebone to the
square itch is positively awful. Some people
hope 1 hat the whales which members of the pro-
cosed Victorian Antarctic Expedition are to catch
will have stronger bones than the species in
Nor hern seas. Good, strong whalebone would
have a ready market here.
* * *
In England woman are celebrated for
their beauty, dress being a secondary considera-
tion. Here the society beauties are—pardon this
Hiberniclsm—year by year becoming more and
more ugly, but their gowns are dressmakers’
dreams and husbands’ nightmares. Many badly-
dressed girls in Melbourne are very pretty, but
they are of a lower rank than the bUckadera, and
are beneath the notice of that haughty class.
(Md and skittish women are great frequenters of
the Block. On cold days they would rather freeze
than hide iheir made-up bagglth figures beneath
thick, warm mantles, and so it perhaps more
often happens in Melbourne than in any other city
that the rude man who has admiringly followed
for a hundred yards something neat about the
ankles and trim in the waist that he took to be a
pretty girl promptly tarns right-about face on
getting a glimpse of his charmer’s withered face.
I not long ago saw the mother of nine refuse to
put on a jacket. It was at a football-match
and one of the coldest days of the year. The
poor old creature s false teeth chattered with the
cold, and she smiled in her bitter agony. This
class of women is known as “humbugs,” but,
unlike that luscious sweetmeat, they are not at
all sweet. Hansom-cab drivers find the antique
blockader a good patron, It is, or was a few years
ago considered fast for a lady to ride alone in a
hansom. It is singular to find how popular han-
soms are with the ancient humbugs. Some of the
Melbourne ladies now-a-daya have private han-
soms. The drivers are, of course, young and
handsome, and form a wonderful contrast to the
owner inside, who leera at her masculine friends
In a manner that Is positively ghastly. The
antique matron of to-day rejuvenates herself after
the manner of Faust, but, unhappily, without the
aid of a friendly Mephistopbelei. She outs short
her grey hair and dyes it black or golden, accord-
ing to her humour and the taste of her various
admirers. I<i it to be noticed,that in Melbourne
the older a woman grows the greater ii the
number of her masculine friends. No wonder the
daughters remain unmarried —their mothers do
not give yonng men time to fall in love with the
daughters. In summer, the antique blockade r
dresses in white like her girls, and in winter
she wears the neatest of tighc-flttir-g gowns made
by a fashionable ladles'tailor I cannot say how
the unmarried daughters like their mothers’
vagaries myself, not being unm irried, but I
should think they had their private opinions on
the subject.
* * *
With the spread of the gospel of Imperial
Federation, the colonist who has been to England
is becoming more and more amusing for a few
weeks after his return. Having seen tne Queen
through a telescope he bscomes an ardent Con-
servative, and at once stops his subscription to
The Bulletin. His daughter does the Block
with a subdued expression of condescension
to those who have not m da a flying visit to
Europe on a Cook’s ticket, Australian girls find
the British nobleman a different animal on his
native shore, and not so tame or easily capturad.
The altered air of a returned Australian girl is
generally caused by the failure in Europe of her
matrimonial schemes.
* * »
Of late Collins street has been almost
entirely re built. In the new buildings are lefo
delightful little porches and nooks like sentinels'
boxes, where it is the custom of tha girl
blockader to stand in readiness to pounce on the
hapless man whom she has at present an inten-
tion of securing for herself. We affect to despise
the lower orders of animals, but we do not despise
their modes of securing their prey.
* - *
Red is very fashionable just now, but a
rad-haired girl wearing a hat to match doss not
look so lovely as she imagines. At a recent
cdcket-match I saw seven girls in a row all wear-
ing piak dresses, white net hats, and all using
p Urn-leaf fans. They looked like the figures iu
tha familiar advertisement of Somebody’s
cigarettes.
* * ♦
This sheep like tendency to follow fashion
extends in other directions beside that of dress.
G) into some of the fruit-shops, where many girls
wait until half-past four. Thare you will sre some
days all these young people devouring ice-cream,
all dressed in the same style, and all Icok ng as
solemn as owls and as passionless as automa ons.
Indead, the automaton Ali is cimcdy itself com-
pared -with these young Sphinxes. The reason for
this self suppression is that there prevails a pas-
sionate and unhappy wish to be thought English.
Yours truly,
MOORABINDA SMITH
During the recent Frerch p litical crisis,
the circulation of the Paris Petit Jouknal ran
up to over 1,100,000 copies daily.
Inscription on the tombstone of the wife
of a French physician :—*■ Here Is deposited the
matter of which Mrs. , wife of Dr. Z , was
composed Deprived of i;s principle of life
October 20, 1887.”
A N Z, solicitor calmly told a bench of
honorary beaks, the other day, that “ be would
gladly pay their fares to H or Siberia only he
didn’t think they were fit to work tither in
eternal flames or in the salt-mines." This is
something like contempt.
At Heathcote (Vie.) a Chinaman, who lives
by promoting the growth of the “ spling oallot ”
and other vegetables, has erected this notice as a
warning to the small boys who fear not Joes :
“Me ketchem English boy steal peach me lock
him up, go away place, fine him £2 or implison
for thlee years.”
An enlarger and colorist of photos, in
Sydney keeps what he calls his ‘‘death’ register.
He watches the obituary columns of the daily
papers, and ciref ally notes the deaths, A week
after, while the grief of tha family is st'll green,
he sends one of his friends to solicit an order with
instructions to carefully hide all knowledge of
the household’s recent bereavement. His can-
vassers generally succeed.
A correspondent writes :
A clergyman who waa until lately incumbent of a
parish near Sydney was requested on a recens day by a sor-
row-stricken mother to officiate at the grave of her three-
weeks-old child. “ Certainly,” replied the meek and lowly
one, “ but I must be paid, cash in advance, the sum of two
guineas for so doing.” In ttie absence of the father the
mother paid the money and the child was buried Upon the
father s return he lequested a receipt for the two guineas
which he got and forwarded to the Bishop, who, thereupon-
very properly ordered that the money should be refunded.
These facts speak for themselves.
We note a rare instance of honesty duly
rewarded. A careless man dropped a parcel con-
taining £5OO, and the lucky finder returned the
amount within an hour and received a-flfth of the
whole for his trou' le and his honesty. This
reminds us of a story half a century old, in which
the notorious Bill Nash, of Sydney, figured. The
old gold fakir had been to Homebnsh races, and
in hurrylrg to his gig dropped a fat roll of bank-
notes. This was observed by a new-ohum from
the Gieen Isle—green in more ways than one—
who hurried after the owner, and, breathless with
the chase, overtook him and returned the greed.
Nash, astounded at such an act in such times,
and amidst such people as Sydney boasted of 50
years ago, asked the finder how long he had been
in the colony. “ Just three days, sir." “ You’re
an adjective blank blank too honest for this
adjective climate; get out of it as soon as you
adjective well can,” and, without giving honesty as
much as a “ dump” to gtb a drink with, be told the
driver to go ahead, leavii g the new-ohnm a
sadder and, perhaps, a wiser man. Old hands are
fond of retailing another yarn about Bill. The
sentence under which he honoured N.S.W. with
his presence did not permit of his return home,
but Bill thinking his wealth entitled him to
a trip without permission, took French leave.
On reaching London he set up In grand style—went
to the extent of driving, it is said, a coach and
six before Her Gracious This, of course, would not
have been permitted even had the owner been one
of the “curled darlings’' of the nation. Enquiries
were made and the returned exile was ordered
by the then Prime Minister, Lord John Russell, to
clear out within four-and-twenty hours. Bill took
the hint, and returned consequently crestfallen bo
Sydney society and semi-bondage.


When next »oa beke tr» Pemell’* Snow-whit* Bou>bk
»n« vonr We*a will be *« white »« eoow.»
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Subscribers to the Parkes’ Fund appear to
be chiefly Js.P.
Randolph Churchill is very 111, and is
threatened with paralysis.
Judge Hawkins, of England, has already
sentenced 30 men to death.
I Our old friend, Plunger Benzon, now
owns 50 racehorses in England.
The name of Viscount Canterbury is figur
i»g in the London Bankruptcy Conrt.
New South Wales has thr,*e and Victoria
two retired judges enjoying pensions.
L Prince Albert Victor, it is now said, wi 1
bis cousin, the Princess Alexandra o *
Greece.
Of the six judges of the Supreme Court of
New South Wales, three are Irish, and three
natives of N.S.W. *
I Miss Cornwall (Mrs John Whiteman) has
fuccrssfully floated the Midas mine, Ballarat, for
£lBO,OOO in London.
Professor Huxley has been making bash
of poor oil Moor house in the Nineteenth Cen-
tury- Subject: Prayer.
At Milrea station, on the lower Barwon,
there is an aboriginal girl 16 years of age, who
turns the scale at 20 stone.
In the fight between and
M'Blhone, Ms P., “ the blood spurted all over Mr.
Daniel O’Connor.” Well, isn’t Dan used to it ?
“Bonanza” Mackay is in a precarious
financial condition. It has been the one pleasure
rf his wife’s life to throw away money as though
It were dirt.
At Orange (N S W.) there resides a retired
officer of the 60th Rifles who holds the Victoria
Cross “ For va’our,” for two acts of bravery iu the
Indian Mutiny, June and December, 1857.
Alex. M‘Oul]y, the elocutionist of Mel- I
bourne, who left the stage to en f er the church,
and got a “living’’ at Bendigo, seems now t)
have dropped the “ Rev." and become a nomadi 3
lecturer.
The widow of the late Sir John Young-
Lord Lisgar- is married to that tx and deal
Governor’s Private Secretary, now Sir Franc!)
Turvilie, Bart. They own a lot of property In
Sydney.
Lecturing in Sydney, the other nigh f ,
Joseph Symes pointed out that he and the d< ■
ceased Tom Paine were born on the same day—
29Ch January. Joseph, however, did not attempt
to explain how this came about.
Young Lord Dudley—the man who, h.
Australia, wore white ducks and a high Hie at
the r ices— ia the latest infliction on the Ecglish
turf. He races under the assumed name of “Mr
Wardour," and is “ fast getting into the swim.
Mr. B. J. Fink, M.L. 1., now claims to be
the wealthiest man in Victoria since “Money’
Miller has gone under. Fmk is a self-made man
Twenty years ago he worked 10 hours a day for
Wallach Brothers, and lived sumptuously on 3Js
a week.
General M’lver, of Fourteen Flags noto
iety, is ia full blast in London A full page
adver'isamenb of his ook appears In the Christ-
mas Number of Paris Figaro, the General being
therein depicted as in full gallop on a snorting
charger.
As everyone knows, Albert Eiward has
just shaken hands with prize-fighter Sullivan,
But everybody doesn’t know that a Roohes'er
(Vic.) parson, oa a recent Sunday publicly offered
up prayers that God may forgive Albert Edward
for that act.
One of the many Church livings in Lord
Lonsdale's gift was vacant at lateso dale. A
cousin of his lordship held the billet until he blew
out his brains, rather than meet a police-court
charge of giddily assaulting a servant-girl. With
his dying breath the reverend gentleman invoked
the curse of God upon his enemies.
The Bathurst Sentinel describes its Bishop
thus : —“ A funny-looking Bishop he ia. just the
sorb of one that you might guess was from York-
shire. He don’t look a bit like a Bishop, but ha
really looks like a man whose name is Camidge.”
We move an adjournment to enquire what a man
really looks like whose name ia Camldge.
Caulfield, the Bay Politician, seems out of
lack as a financier. A couole of years ago he
parted, for the conside;ation of £2O, his interest
iu certain shares in the Central Broken Hill mine.
A month ago the scrip rea’ised £63,000. Had he
retained his property his prospects for the N.S.W.
Premiership would have risen higher than silver
mining shares. -
Thirty-eight of the western squatters of
Yiotorla own between them the freehold of
1,428,080 acres of magnificent land The largest
of these land holders are the trustees of Mr.
John Moffat, of Hexham, with 90,104 acres; the
smallest holder, Mr. Jerry Ware, of Koortnong,
with 23 817 acres. E-ch of the 38 proprietors
holds, on an average, 37,581 aores.
' Moses Gold stein, the well-known Mel-
bourne usurer, has out his throat. Moses wasn t
halt a bad sort. We know a man who once bor-
warded £lO from him, and Moses onlv charged
him £ll 10s. Interest forth® use of it for 27 weeks.
Which Is a great deal more than could often be
said of Aaron Waxman—or of a certain N.S W.
Parliamentary banking syndicate.
It Is cabled that Sir Henry Holland, of
the Colonial Office, is to be raired to the peerage
His father, the Qusea s accoucheur, might have
improved upon his baronetcy but for fear of ridi-
cule. When the probability of Holland’s “ eleva
tlou ’ was first mooted, a Club wag christened
him in advance “Lord Deliver-us,” so the ssnsi-
i five doctor declined a coronet and strangled the
joke In its birth.
Victorian railway employes are being asked
to contribute a trifle towards a gaudy tombstone
for Mr. John Anderson, late traffi -manager. Mr.
Anderson ’ was an ea-y-going man of no great
ability, who drew £lBOO a year for letting other
people do his work. His monument ought to be
set up by the parties who have made thumping
damages out of the lamented aoeidenb at Windsor,
for it killed Anderson and was a stroke of luck for
them.
Joe Lee, one of the far-hack and muni-
ficently-paid reporters of the Sydney E. News,
managed on one occasion to raise a new suit of
clothes, a must unusual occurrence with him, or
any other E. N. reporter of those days. In the
fulness of his pride and glory, ho sought the
sanctum of old Sam Bennett, in order to display
hla finery. After pirouetting In a manner that
would have made n 'Fraulein Fannie green with
envy, he demanded the old man’s opinion of the
rig- out. “ Hum, ha 1 you look well, Joe : but—
ah—salary too large, evidently; must reduce it”
And Joe regretted ever afterwards the display
and the finery.
In the days of old John Fairfax, the late
proprietor of the Sydney Morning Herald, if a
guileless young man, who had been put on t >
“do" the theatres, advised people in h ! s r,eport
to visit any particular play, old John would fro wn
severely and say, “ Young man, at the end o'
your notice you advise people to go to the theatre
and see this play. Let me tell you, sir, the
Herald advises nobody to go to the theatre.
Bear that in mind, sir. ”
The festive L. L. Smith, of the Victorian
Assembly, is still in Sydney, and is steadily grow-
ing juvenile S with is considerably younger and
fresher now than he was 30 years ago, when he
sold physic in that weatherboard shanty ia
Bourke street, opposite where his Polytechnic
Hall is now. He “ feels well,” and suffers from
no “ symptoms akin to the follo wing.” He sold
his stud last weak, but these were his raoe-horsas,
not the diamond ones in his shirt-frou*’, which are
bigger than ever.
Sir George Grey some time ago received a
visit from a fossilized book-worm, who had
travelled from somewhere near the North Pole oa
purpose to present the Knight of Kawau with a
rare and costly book, published just before the big
flood, It was produced with a flow of gush, and
BARBER (to customer): “YOU ARE VERY BALD, SIR. DID YOU EVER TRY ANY OF
MY ELEOTRIC SCALP INVIGOHATOR AND DEADSORE HAIR RESTORER?"
CUSTOMER: “YES, THAT'S WHAT MADE ME BALD."
examined with many complimentary remarks,
after which Sir George wheezed out in his pecu-
liar manner—“My dear fellow! you—have—af-
forded me —Infinite pleasure, and no doubt —you
woull be interested —in the o iginal M.S. —of such
a rare print.” Then, to the disgust of the fossil,
Hori Grey took from a shelf the ■ copy ’ the
printers had used when putting the ra-e book in
type.
Although “ Money ” Miller assisted
largely in passing the Ballot Act in Victoria, the
real author of that measure was William Nichol-
son. An old-fashioned, plain, and plodding poli-
tician, Nicholson was orlginafly a small shop-
keeper in the greengrocery line, in Collins street,
Melbourne, in the early days-fancy a green-
grocer’s shop In Collins-street now ! By careful
industry, he developed into an importer, got Into
Parliament, and made himself a name over the
Ballot Bill After the enactment of the ballot in
the Southern colony he went home —before Eng-
land had abolished open voting—and was lionised
as the “father of the ballot.” On his return he
re entered Parliament and assisted in carrying a
vote of want of confidence in the Healea Ministry.
The Government appealed to the country and
came back with a majority, but in a few months
broke up. and Nicholson succeeded as Chief Secre-
tary. The ballot is the only piece of legislation
with which his name la coupled, and but for lb ho
would have died in political obscurity
Yet another yam concerning “ Old
Jimmy Tyson,” the Australian millionaire. James
says he built his plethoric fortune on one shilling
Whan a little boy ha was employed by hin brother,
a butcher, to drive cattle from a distance of 120
miles, Hetoadtoo osstherlverMurray, andthefare
across in the punt for himself and his Pegasus was
one “bob.” “ Jimmy” held it, and wanted to ; he
therefore drove his steed into the water, hung on
bo its bail, and so landed on the other aide, and
saved the fare. He ascribes his rise in life to the
husbanding of that coin. He cannot now fix
within many thousands the number of hia sheep
and cattle, but he is happily cognisant of the
fact that his station-holdings include 14 of the
la-gest in Queensland. There’s no pride about
“Old Jimmy” The smallest “supe” and
roneeabout on Vs station can refer to him as
“ Old Jimmy Tyson,” and they won’t get fired
onb. It is only iu large towns that he pubs up at
hotels, otherwise he always travels in a spring cart
with a black boy, who does all the grooming and
cooking.
POLITICAL
POINTS
ALOther plum for Wise. N.Z. imports L j
1887, £6,759,000; exports, £6,866,000.
The Bedford, Portland, and Westmlnste
families own land in England to the value t f
£400,000,000.
The Queensland political Sphinx sti
remains dumb. Sir Thomas MTlwraith enunciate
no policy, and his followers are in confusion.
Victoria goes in for Protection against
Orangeism. The Melbourne dallies make it aiu
never to report Orange peals of brutum fulmen.
German labour is chopping the Brisban
bricklayers down to 4s. a day. Must the Europea*
Chinese go too ? Either that or stop them coming
Will Mr. Mitchell, the Foreign-Trade
candidate for Newtown, N.S.W., kindly explain
why that Petersham Railway Station Master ivas
dismissed the service some years ago ?
Twelve mil ions sterling of British capital
have flowed into Australia during the last 12
months. A million a month ! In the sweet by
and by the interest will have to be paid.
Macnatnara, of North Shore, says he has
heard a deal about Henry George’s “ Progress and
Poverty” of late, but what interests him most is
the progress and poverty of Henry Parkes.
Agricultural labourers in Essex, England,
are getting lOi. a week minus 9d. for each wet
day. Another instance of the “unparalleled
prog’ess" made by the masses under Freetrade.
Eighteen out of the 21 lots for village
settlement at Cordalba, near Buudaberg, Q., were
taken up oa the day they were thrown open.
This is the first attempt at practical Socialism in
Australia,
The Daly River Plantation Company of
Holy Adelaide has a nice little pl*oe of 100,COO
acres in the Northern Territory, and is getting
out 50 Chinese families to settle upon it. Comment
would toe an Insult.
77,774 Irish left Ireland during the 11
months that ended 30th November. The Tory
cook a-doodUnga over improved order in Ireland
reminds one of the Roman saying : “ You make a
desert and call it peace !"
The Noozb says: ‘A substance has re-
cently been invented which can be seen through
more clearly than glass.” This is probably an
allusion to Parkes’ proposal to lease the Sydney
tramways to a private syndicate.
The British Peace Delegation in the
States were addressing an audience in New Jersey,
when an amendment was raised that the British
had better begin that sorb of thing at once in Ire-
land, and carried unanimously. The British Peace
Delegation has gone home.
In a recent issue of the Melbourne Age
there appeared 75 advertisements for mechanics.
In the issue of the Sydney Morning Herald of
the next morning appeared an advertisement for
one, and for it there were a hundred applicants.
Pulsford, are you listening ?
Speaker Groom, of Queensland Parlia-
ment, goes straight for Protection at last. Groom
has represented Toowoomba for 25 years, and hag
trimmed bis sails so well that in all that time ho
has never once been “left.” The cause he goes
for is the one that Is going to win.
The printed Acts of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment are not “pointed.” By this we mean of
course, that there are no “stops” printed in. The
author of this novelty Is the Hon. John Stewart,
M.LC., who is a professional horse-doctor and
believes he knows as much about men and laws
as he does about quadrupeds.
A startling political metamorphosis is pos-
sible in Queensland. Sir Charles Lilley, the Chief
Jus 1 ice, may resign his post on the Bench and
take office under MTlwraitb, while Sir Sam would
retire into the dignified shades vacated by Sir
Char'es. At Hast, this is what Sir Sam is think-
ing of, if he sees he is in for a catastrophe.
Laurens, M.L. h. of Victoria, says “it
doesn’t require a classical education to detect a
nuisance.” Of course aot. There isn’t a man in
the reporters’ gallery who has ever been at a Uni-
versity except to copy the matriculat’on list, but
after a pressman has been in the Assembly just a
week he detects Laurens, and doe n’t report him.
Sydney D.T. wants Federation to be
left to the “ maturing influence of time.” But
what has “ the maturing influence of time ” done
for the D.T ? Softened its miserable brain and
dragged it down from sense and Protection to the
making and selling of miserable jokes and the
hawking of Freetrade platitudes. (Great ap
plause.)
Encore verae for the National Anthem :
“ God save our well-fed Queen,
God bless her people lean,
God save the Queen.
Send her grandchildren more,
Kept by her subjects poor,
Toiling ’mid trials sore,
God save the Queen.
Sixteen out of 19 Welsh members are for
Home Rule, 50 out of 60 Scotch, all the 150 North
of England members, and 86 Irish members. It
is only the shoddy Toryism of London and the
South that bolsters up Salisbury and the landlords
who spend their money in what Tennyson calls
the “gross mud honey of town" and the fashion-
able “sassiety ” sea-side health resorts.
Just before Christmas, the managing pro-
prietor of the S.M, Herald, in a sudden burst of
philanthropy, caused enquiry to he made by
members of his staff as to the extent to which
poverty existed amongst the mechanics, clerks,
&c,, of Sydney. The result was “an unmitigated
staggerer”; so much so that not a word about
the matter ever appeared in the columns of the
Herald.
If a hostile fleet held the seas for a few
months, incalculable amounts of Australian wool
and all our other natural products would lie worth-
lessly rotting for want of manufactures. Thup,
during the late war in the Southern States cl
America, so sc on as the blockade began, the oottcn
and tobacco crops, which were worth millions a
month, had to be lefc to rot. Such, dear friends
are the advantages of Freetrade !
At a recent banquet at Maryborough (Q.),
the new Queensland Minister for Mines likened
himself to a political mouse, and said he was
proud of a one-man Government, and didn't care
to belong to any other. After this he compared
Psalmyell Griffith to Moses, Joshua, and Bis-
marck, and wound up by asserting that the colony
was not big enough for him. What a splendid
“instrument’ he would make in the hands of
a certain Southern Premier 1
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen said at Belfast, Yic. :
—“ Many were fond of talking of Freetrade as a
principle, but this was absurd, as there was no
principle in Freetrade or Protection. The question
was simply one of expediency.” The humorous
aspect of this par. lies in the fact that the state-
meat, almost woid for word, is taken clean from
President Cleveland’s message which the Free-
trade Press is making suctucapi al of, and the two
men are, both of them Protectionists down to
the ground!
The S.M. Herald weeps in a recant
issue over the alleged fact that there are 100,000
unemployed in New York, and wants to know why
Protection doesn’t find them comething to do.
For the information of that bulky journal we
would mention that New York has for many years
received from 100,000 to 300,000 destitute paupers
from Europe annually, most of them from Free-
trade Britain, and, thanks to Protection, the
country has found work for them all except the
handful over which the Herald is eo badly
mortified.
Premier Psalmyell Griffith makes big
capital out of flaunting the “ black labour ” bogey
before the Queensland electors, although M il-
wraith has publicly renounced it, and Sir
Thomas is a man (unlike Sam) whose word can
be taken. But Sam himself was a “ black labour ”
and “yellow labour" man, too, till he found
which way the wind blew. He said, on July 7,
1874, in the House : “ I have no objection in the
world to the introduction of Coolie emigrants and
others, but the views I have always advocated
are that every person who liked to come should he
at liberty to do so and he added, “ I will not be
a party to putting a poll-tax on the Chinese ."
Queensland electors should know the worth of
Sam’s “ principles ” by now !
Sample of 19 th century religion, from the
War Cry (Sydney)
bhe was 83 years of age, and about to die. She came as
often as i-he could to the barracks and testified to following
Jeans for GO years She loved the Army; so does everyone
that s properly saved. Captain visited her deathbed, and
observing portions of a red under-garment and some yellow
letters, I said, Has she got a guernsey on ? Yes, said her
friends, and we can’t get it off Hallelujah! She loved ths
uniform, and died in it, and is gone to be with Jesus.
Dear Bulletin,- So the inspired Idea of that
fine aristocrat, “Noblesse Oblige,” has borne fruit: the
w rthy Governor Loch is to get an extra £6000 in order that
“ distinguished ” globe trotters may be able to hang up their
hats behind the door that leads into the shop. “Coming
events cast their shadows before,” and so, perhaps, these
titled gentry can see that their little game of spoliation in
the Old World is nearly played out, and they are giving Aus-
tralia a turn to spy out anything worth devouring. I deny
that the investment of foreign capital in our cities will enrich
the community; it simply means putting money in the l*nd-
lord's pocket, the rent or interest of which will have to be
paid to an absentee landlord instead of a local one. As for
the era of “unexampled prosperity," there are numbers
around Melbourne who can tell a different story. During
the last 12 months good tradesmen have been taking
contracts in the building line for prices that wouldn't
pay 5s. a day. An old friend of mine, strong, steady and
industrious, with a wife and four children depending on his
labour, has been glad to work for 33s. a week. Kighteen-
pence of tbis had to go for a railway fare; that left 31s. Gd.
to clothe and feed six—not bad in a land flowing with milk
and honey for the favoured classes, is it 1 Of course, hun-
gerors alter the crumbs that fall from the Governors table,
as I take “ Nobless* Oblige ” to be, like our M.sP., who
would give more of the taxpayers’ money to a man already
monstrously overpaid, never hear of these oases, and will not
than* anyone for making them public A little while ago,
when this highly favoured man asked for a rise, he was told
that labour was at a discount. Were some employers ques-
tioned as to their results for the year, they could say—with
the American manufacturer the great Henry George tells
about—that they had been specially favoured—material had
never been so cheap, nor labour so plentiful.—Yours, J.
Mayall, Coy’s Diggings, Rushworth, Vie.


A! r £i>/ojf£^
/sk
Pf'H 1
| Pi^
itf
/; Ji/t*
Sfil€T9o, HHPI /rlfi*
dfs
4
o 1
o7(Th7' f/ 'q 4/'I
/n fAuf- s~fp£e. I
€(/Ct I
I f#€ 7v€n, jjS.
dfs
The N.S.W. Parliamentary Prize Fight.


4*
a
dfsds
fi'lll /rnJff/Ttm \ \\\ \\
TmjffJf/
S, y 7 // \
lip
The Same Old Tune.
“Victoria is insolent, bombastic, uujast and inconsistent, and from her vanity incapable of seeing when she is treated
YOUNG NEW SOUTH WALES: “GET OUT! WHY DON’T YOU GO AWAY, YOU DREADFUL OLD BORE! DIDN’T I GIVE YOU £10,000 LONG AGO TO SHUT UP!"


FKECKIGBAtE.
The unparalelled success of this preparation in removing
Freckles Tan, Sunburn, 4c . has already caused a numb* r
of unscmpul: us persona to place worthless imitations on th.
market. Bev. are of such, and see the written signature P.
Moore Clements, in red ink across label. Reject all otherr,
or get indirect, post free, for 2s. lOd. in N.S.W. stamps,
iron Washington H. Soul and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney, or
the inventor F. Moore Clements 141 King-street, New-
town, N.B. W. Please report all oases of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate legal proceedings will be com-
menced by F, M. Clements, Newtown, N.B.W.*
The natural loveliness of our harbour has been the theme
of many a writer, and the rbh and lovely tints of the
Earth » flora have he n so cleverly imitated by the artist
that looking on the Bose Trays, and other beauteous goods
of Bray Bkos.. 402 and 404 George-stieet, one hardly feels
sure whether the flowers are real or artificial. Table and
Rooms can be furnished beautifully from their places.*
Claremont, Dailinghust Road, Sydney.—A private Medi-
cal and Surgical Home, established bv Dr. Tarrant, for the
reception and systematic treatment of patients of both sexes
The residents, who are provided with separate bedrooms,
derive the great advantages of a constant medical super,
vision with the care and attention of a trained nursing staff-
For particulars apply to the Lady Superintendent.*
J. B. Pack's and Oo.'s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
the moat delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by all
connoisseurs to be the most d lioate in flavour. Prepared so
that the combustion is perfect. Bums out to the last
particle with pure white ash. Try it.
Society
A snug little meeting convened by a reafc
little circular addressed to the very best people,
has baen held in ths Mayor of o irn
particular roo<n at the Town Hall The meeting
was chiefly ladies In their best clothes who came
to express sympathy with the domestic happiness
of Prince and Princess Tummy, and arrange for a
silver-wedding-glft on the 25th anniversary of
their nuptials. The Mayoress fell heavily Into
the chair. Lady Clarke expressed the sympathy in
a resolution, Mrs. Francis Ormond seconded it,
and a couple of K.C.M.G.S warmly supported it.
Just at this point Mayor Benjamin arose and men-
tioned, in a voice shaken by emotion, that he had
received a letter from Sir Edwin Smith, the Mayor
of Adelaide, asking what steps were being taken in
Victoria to meet the blessed occasion. This showed,
said Beni imln, “ that the other colonies were a’ive
to the matter .” Jehoshaphat! After cheering bad
somewhat subsided, it was resolved to appoint a
committee, consisting of (read this carefully)
“ Lady Clarke and all the other ladies preseat.’’
Sir James Macßain then went round with the
list, and collected £lOO from the Clarke? and £l6O
from the remainder of the meeting, which wasn’t
much, coas’dering that
the ladies present repre-
sented, according to Sir
George Yerdon, “ the
wealth of the colony.”
No language can tell the
utter thinness of this sil-
ver-wedding grovel. It
is destitute of the palest
shadow of a backbone.
One puffy Mayor sends a
telegram to another puffy
Mayor, which is accepted
as proof that public en-
thusiasm rages through-
out the colonies. Bahl
They’ve been caught
napping this time, and
got within a month of
the eventful day before
English papers advised
them of it. Even dear
Lady Loch quite forgot
about the silver-wedding
until it was almost too
late.
* * *
Daring ore of his
peregrinations round his
realms, Governor Lcch
and suite once lit on the
homestead of a “squat-
tah ” well known in Mel-
bourne “ eassiety.” We
will not identify the
landed proprietor further
than by Intimating that
he 'possesses an abun-
dant beard of the hue of
squashed tomato, and
a large red wife whose
peculiar deportment and lack of common culture
have afforded “ sasslety” much merriment behind
its hand and fan, you know. Mrs.-Squattah was
days preparing her palatial residence toiecelve
vice-royalty and its accessories, and when Sir
Henry and his following landed on the scene the
good old soul boomed down on the party, over-
flowing with gush and vulgarity. “ Ah, Sir
’Enry, how d’you find yourself ? An’ you, my
lady, are you first class?" she gasped effusively.
“ I’ve cleared me beat room for your ‘ sweetls-
It followin’ in a van?" The “sweet” had a
chill, and it stared blankly into the far, far away,
whilst Sir ’Enry plucked his beard, and started to
talk about the weather. His hostes: Imagined he
travelled with a suite of furniture In tow,
* * *
Lord Hindlip, better known by his his-
toric family name of Allsopp, has come out to
Australia for his health. If his lordship is in-
veigled into tasting our beer, the shock will kill
him.. Perhaps ha will kindly raise his hind lip,
and drink in these warning words
Thou brewer of ambrosial beer,
Great autocrat of Burton 1
Yours is the tap that any chap
Can safely put his shirt on.
To that transcendent tipple stick,
And never try “ colonial,”
If you would reign yet once again
In Hindlip’s halls baronial.
♦ * *
There was a crowd of peop’e at the Dune-
din office cf the Union S.S. Co., all anxious to get
tickets for the Tarawera’s last trip to the S junds,
and many of them positively swore when a shabby,
dusty, horsey-looking man with a fifth rate hab
and a face like a crying evil, elbowed his way
past them and said he wanted to see the manager.
The elegant clerk behind the counter siz d him up
as a stone-broke wanting a job, and replied that
the feeling wasn’t mutual and tte manager didn’t
want to see him. Then the shabby nun sail
sternly that he ivoidd see the manager, and the
clerk replied that he wouldn’t, ard when ho said
hat he was going to see the manager right off
and moved towards the door, the clerk got in
.ont of him and said that he wasn’t going to do
anything of the kind. The stranger said he would
be dashed if anyone would stop him, and the clerk
replied that he might be dashed if he wanted to,
but anyhow these premises weren’t the place for
any dead be vt to be dashed in, and he had better
leave. At this crisis, the manager put bis head
out of the door and issued his indignant nkase :
“Turn that man out,” and he went. Next d-y,
the irate boss saw his seedy visitor lolling on a
sofa in the Grand Hotel, and learned that he hai
fired out a comparatively Inoffensive British lord
who only wanted to get a ticket. The peerage
I has become so numerous In Australasia of late,
and it is so utterly impossible to tell a lord from a
barrow-labourer, that the Uppsr House is not
properly grovelled to half the time.
* * *
It was in tie good old times on the Ed-
ward River, that a Jackaroo—whom pa was a
bayonet, by Jove! and who had been accustomed
l;o have his horses looked after by a groom, don't
rou know—arrived on one of t*e stations. He
was sent on a message to another station, and
jiven one of the best horses on the plaae, with
jrders to take great care of his iromt He got
:o his destination all right, and next morning,
when the horses were brought in, he went with
;he rest to the stockyard to catch his horse. Ar-
ived there, his eye wandered hopelessly over the
nixed mob of animals, and, at last he diffidently
jot down off the fence and proceeded to catch a
torso which, by some accident, chanced to be his
iwn. The boss had seen his vacant stare, so he
letermined to try and “take a rise out of him,”
‘ Hi I ’ said he. “ what are you going to do with
hat horse ? What are you catching that horse
or?” “Isn’t he my home?’ gasped the new-
hum. “ Your horse !” said the boss, with sar-
HE LOOKED SO ENGUISH.
MR. REGINALD PORTERGAFF (who is quite imbued with the freshness of the morning.
and conscious of his own dignity): “GOOD MORNING, CHINAMAN.”
JOHN : “GOOD MORNY, BLITISHER.”
casm in his tone. “ They never owned a horse
like that one on ths station you come from. Your
her;e don’t appear to be in the yard, he must
have got away.” “Heavens! what shall I do?’
said the other, “ they told me to take such care of
him." “Well,” said the boss, “I'll send after
him, and I will lend you that horse to go home on ;
but you’ll haye to sign au agreement to return that
animal or £5O within a week, because I can see you
ain’t a man to be trusted with a valuable horse.”
The new chum accepted tho:e terms, and rode
home sadly, having borrowed his own horse and
agreed to forfeit £5O if he didn’t give him back in
a week. It was the same innocent who bo eight a
mare very poor, and turned her oub in a p tddoc’i
for a couple of years, at the end of which time he
found whafc he believed to be a strange mare, very
fat, with a yearling colt and a foal at foot running
In the paddock, and, filled with indignation at such
trespassers, he pounded ths lot. No one turned
up to c'aim them, so they were sold out of the
pound, and the new chum bought them, after a
spirited compstition with a little Irish horce-
dealer, for £l5. It was his own mare with two of
her progeny.
* * *
The Brisbane Courier Lady Fashioniat
says: “ Nobod r looks well in washed stays and a
time-yellowed flannel petticoat, and yet these gar-
ments are often ‘ too good to throw away.’ Now
could we nob ‘do up’ both with soft sateen and a
little inexpensive lacs afeer ths mode Invented by
the French corsetiere f We move an adjourn-
ment to remark than we could band wifi, and for
the future shall insist on tne whole staff following
our example. The appearance of ths office-boy In
washed stays and a tims-yel owed flannel pstti-
ooat hasjjlong interfered with our digestion after
lunch.
* * *
Hon. Trickett is moving for an inquiry in
the N.S.W, Upper House as to the names and
rank of the people who ate poor Lord Augustus
Loftus Into chronic in oivenoy at Govern man t
Hoase, Sydney. He also d’sires to know if there
was or was not a sum of £lOOO voted to the hen-
rearing Augustas to defray the cost of feeding
the itinerant nobles of Europe, and, if so, did the
I nobles eat more than the £lOOO worth, and if they
did why the deuce did he let them do it ? Ha is
further anxious to ascertain how many barons it
took to consume the quantity of victuals above-
described and how much victuals each baron had,
and whether Lord L. bought the provisions in the
cheapest market with a reasonable discount for
cash, or whether ho allowed himself to be im-
posed on only by local shopkeepers through sending
his aide-de-camp to the store in the next strert
whenever the supply ran out. If the bills for the
provisions can be found and produced It would
also be satisfactory to know whether the eggs
were bought by the orate c r wore supplied
from the gubernatorial poultry-yard, and, in
the latter case, were they charged for at cur-
rent ra'es or how ? Furthermo.’e, was the
ham as wall as the eggs produced on the
premises, and, supposing it was could tim
ex-Governor drive a pig through a gats without
the animal rounding on him and rushlcg against
him with Its muddy carcase ? Lor i Loftus him-
self asserts that it wa n’ ■ so much the distin-
guished visitors as those who thought they were
distinguished whrbnk' him up, ant it will bj
necessary to find out how he knew a distinguished
visitor when he saw him, and also how he kne w
one who only fancied that he was distinguished,
and, in regard to the latter, how did he know he
wasn’o distinguished it the visitor didn’t know it
himself, and why on earth didn’t he tell him so at
the time ? What is a distinguished visitor, any-
how, and what are his ear marks ? It is neces-
sary, of course, to draw the line somewhere, but
should it be done at the viscount who humps his
own luggage from the wharf, or at the peer who
arrives in a cab and tells the driver to charge the
fare to the Consolidated revenue, or at the K.C B
whom the Governor falls over and breaks his leg
while he is kissing the girl on the stairs 2 All
these questions will have to be looked Into it the
matter is to be satisfactorily fixed up, and, even
then, the results will noc be all that could be
wished unless the washing-bslla of that past date
can be resurrected from the file and laid before
Parliament, If it can be proved by these doou
meats that the dukes who put up at Government
House, Sydney, struck a fair average of one shirt
and 26 pairs of cuffs then there can be no possible
doubt that Lord Loftus was grossly imposed upon
and that N.B.W. has suffered an outrage which
cannot be washed out except in blood.
* * *
It has just occurred to us that, at a
wedding, the bride always takes the cake.
♦ * *
The Birmingham Daily Post states
The Q ieen has graciously forwarded, thnugh the Lord
Ohambarlaia, a quantity of old linen for the use of the
Windsor Royal lutirmary.
What the whole Empire stands up to ask is why
on earth should every action of Victoria have
that tattered, moth-eaten adveib attached to it.
From the moment when Her Majesty is
“ graciously ” pleased to get up in the morning
until the time when she “ graciously ” condescends
to go to sleep after a heavy supper, she hauls that
wil ed, dog-eared part of speech behind her, and
apparently she can’t get rid of it. We don’t wish
to be needlessly particular, but if Victoria could
contrive for once to do something or anything In
an ordinary commonplace way instead of doing it
“graciously” she would give a seriously exhausted
nation a rest.
* * *
A Northern diWl writes a column and a
ha'f c£ commonp ace in a recent issue, and then
remarks plaintively : “ A sofn sadness creeps upon
me as I recall these facts ” The journalist
is degenerating. When we used to mix with him
he was a boilerplate individual who never suf-
fered unless something larger and more material
than a horse and dray crept upon him, but no w he
gets a soft sadness on top of him and begins to
write washy sentiment when the unwonted emo-
tion is sitting on his head.
* * *
Mrs. Brown-Potter’s stage dresses are
said to be a revelation A local papsr naughtily
remarks that the more they reveal the b'gger will
be her audiences. We are now blushing for that
local paper.
* • »
A ountiry couple took up their bundles
and visited Sydney during the Centennial relebra-
tions ; and they put up at a Park-road boarding
“establishment” where the card har-gs against
a faded green Venetian between two smoky lace
curtains. They resolved to go to the cricket-
match ; and one afternoon, after having for a
whole morning concussed with the übiquitous
shop- talker and walked on the wrong side of the
pavement, they arrive! hurriedly at theiunoheon-
table just to’ave a snaok before ’eadlng for the
Association Ground. As they took their first
mouthful a persevering volunteer at the rifle-
butts let drive at the bull’s-eye, and instan-
taneously the lady from the provinces dropped
her cutlery and exclaimed: “ There, John!
they’re at it now ! I ’eard the bat strike the
ball!" Fact.
It is proposed to alter the formula of the
marriage-service to “ who will dare to take this
woman for his wedded wife ?" We don’t like the
Idea much. It reminds one too closely of chal-
lenging-night at a boxing-hall.
♦ * *
The dear creatures have it all theic own
way on the Darling Downs. (Q ). There are three
of them to each man in Toowoomba, and five in
Dalby. Hence the Toowoomba Debating Society
decides t hat women musn’b have tbe Franchise.
They're afraid they'd pass a Mormon law right off
and make a man marry three wives.
* ‘ *
At Newcastle (N'.S.W.), a few days ago,
there was a wedding which didn’t come off on ac-
count of the absence of the bridegroom. The
bride was there all right with her friends; the
parson was there and tho wed# n£ breakfast; a
lot of small boys were gathered round the church
door ; a genial dog-fight was in progress at the
very gate of the sanctuary; down the
road a horse was b siting with a loaded
dray, and in the adjacent yard the children
had tied two cats toge her by the tails
and hung them ac oss aline. Ks-eryth'ng was
provided for down to the smallest accessory, but
things hung flra f->r want of the bridegroom, and
the half intoxicated boy who had charge rf the
wedding chariot sweltered in the sun, and
cheeked the solemn piliceman on his
“bate,” and waited for something to ensue.
Thera was an awkward pause of several hours
duration during which the weddh g party shifted
uneasily from one leg to the other. Then the
bride spoke, with the beaming smile which had
captivated the heart of the young man who hadn’t
turned up. “ Bother the bridegroom,’ she said j
“let’s have the wedding br.akfast without him
Let’s go in for enjoying ourselves He never was
much account anyhow. Darn the bridegroom. I’ll
get another on* ; ” and with that a jovial party
started for home in the hired vehicle*, and fel
up*n the victuals. Girls who are so thoroughly
equal to tho emergency are rare, and about 10 or
15 eligible young men are already thinking of
marrying this one. Another young lady at
Melbourne went through a somewhat simi-
lar experience last week bub j net as the
performance was about to fall through, one of
the boys, with great presence of mind, ran round
to the bridegroom’s favourite pub, and fetched
him along to the altar, where he was stood up and
helped through the service with a friend shoring
him behind. He tot’ered a good deal at the criti-
cal parts of the proceedings, but the affair ended
satisfactorily, and they went home to live happily
ever afterwards.
When the emigrant ship Bulimba made
her last voyage out to Brisbane, the voy agents—
but more particularly the voysgeuses—had a
high old time of It, according to the doctor. He
says that the captain would order the piano on
deck and request the first mate—a captivating
youth with a fetching smile and Percy for a front
name —to bang the accompaniments for the girls,
who warbled “ Only, a Pansy Blossom," and
“ Pretty White Lilies " while tbe good ship delved
acro?s the wobbly. This, seems, isn’t the
official way to treat emigrants, and the doctor
and the cap'rain used to argue It out once a day
■>nd twice on Sundays with a marlinspike apiece
until they fell into the lee scuppers. The Marine
Board is now exercising itself over the matter,
and the doctor and the captain never speak as
they pass by.
* • *
The following little “ad.” is extracted
from an English religious paper. The reader who
is still in the bond of what’s-hls name and the gall
of the other thing may see in it only the appeal of
a saint out of a billet, but to the eye of
faith its deep inwardness will be at once appa-
rent
Pastor would like to hear from Saints meeting in tha
Name ol the Lord, where oversight is needed (1 Oor. is. 11)
Address, &c.
Saints needing oversight will please roll up at a
breathless gallop. A liw, common, ordinary
sinner would probably have put in a sixpenny
nodes—“Jb at shewing’’—but the
above reads a lot better, Nothing is said on the
subject of “ screw," but it may be taken for
g anted that the saints on’t absolutely wallow in
“ oversight” unless a screw of some kind is forth-
coming— th« pastor who wants to live on tbe ham
of faith and the eggs of the spirit is not yet
built. Of cour e, no one can object to the good
man advertising for the oversight of saints—we
tried to oversee one saint ourselv's once, and
when we happened to take our eye off him for a
moment, after >hree year.’ steady anpervjslon, he
took advantage of it to annex £8 19s. 7d , and
vanished like a meteor round the corner—bat he
might as well have put the matter rlsdnly so that
people who were unable to indulge in the luxury


Among the many improvements we have noticed iothe
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, comer of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
apposite Hyde Park. Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
BhaltkYi has spared no expense to make bis hotel the first
) o Bpdfc#.*
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whits
IPatknt Roller Flour. It is made In the colony from
the best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery,
Ibe Quality li exceptionally good, and the price yery low,*
Everybody lay*—and what everybody lay* mu»t be true—
that FemeU'i Snow-white Patinx Roller Flour ii the
bout in the market,*
Bterpbody ihould tins Pemell’* latest, best Snow-whits
Patent Rollrr Flour. II l» the greatest iuooom o( tbs
WW.*
of a stipondiary Mo sea would not be deluded or
led Into a waste of postage-stamps.
* * *
Me. Jones : “ Why is it that the ladles of
„ ponizregatloa always present the pas'ror with
embroidered slippers and braces V Mrs. J. :
‘‘The braces are to keep up hn trousers, so that
tie embroidered slippers can be seen. How stupid
you are!” # * *
Here's an authentic anecd ite of that scion
of British nobility, Lady Mnnro. Kate was reeling
a'ong hal!-;eai-orer down aside-walk in Sydney
Domain, the other day, when she saw a dts-eou-
tibie old Irishwoman equaled up against the
wall sacking at a bottle. Being rather dry, Kate
came over the grass and requested the other lady
to go whacks. The other lady refused. Whereon
Kate said, with considerable dfgal y, “Woman,
do you know who I am* Tm Lady Munro /”
The acushleen waved the bottle and replied,
nriiahln«ly, “Gerrout wld yer, woman! D’ye
know who -Tam? I m Lady !” That wa,
too much for Kate. She dropped a tear and
pasmd on. The grand old British nobility, there s
nothing like it!
* * *
Seme two years ago H. E. Wood, the
Adelaide Curator of Intestate Estates, became
suddenly afflicted with scarceness, and in the
velocity of his going off forgot to leave behind
him intestate estates to the value of £15,000,
which became more intestate still through the
ut*er impossibility of finding them after he had
stone away. It is not alleged exactly that he took
this property with him, but he f orjrot to tell the
owners where he had put it, A girl disappeared
at the time he left, and, though there is no positive
proof that she went away with him, it is admitted
that she was there before he went, and she was
gone immediately afterwards, which led a good
many people to suppose he had taken her. Wood
wasn’t anybody in particular before he went away,
but ho is now a magistrate in Northern Mexico,
and owns 100,000 a ires of land and lives in terrific
style, and ho has married a Mexican girl with a
pile of money. Under these circumstances he
seems to be ra her glad that he lefo, (hough the
glory of the swindle has squashed 100,000 good
old copy-book maxims past all recovery.
* * *
Mr. Badges, a*ho
attends Melbourne police
courts for the purpose of
translating Chinese evi-
dence into Arglo Saxon
lies, has received the
order of ihe sixth button
from the Emperor of
China. D essed ia«,the
garb tf bis mw nobility,
Hodges had a fly round
Little Bourke-street la;t
weeS, where all the lepers
called him blessed, and
begged that he would
dfign to wipe his patri-
cian boots with their
back hair. Bodges is
now next beat m;n to
Joss in these parts We
believe his six' h buttm
empowers him ti cut
off Quorg Tart’s eyelids
and stick that amiable
restaurateur in the full
glare of the noonday sun,
to which orb, by the
way, Hodges has become
distantly related. May
he live long, and rever
catth typhoid from eat-
ing Chinamen’s lettucee !
* * *
Melbourne Herald
asks : “Is it safe to
allow Russian sailors
about without any con-
trol, unable as they are
tounderstand orheunder-
stcod? This is a fair
sample of the twaddle
on which young Victoria
is spoon fed by the daily
Press, Scores and hun-
dreds of unspeakable
heathen arrive at the
port of London nearly
every day of the week.
They wander about at
their own sweet will, and
if they commence to back
one another with three-
foot knives in a busy
thoroughfare, the
lookers-on get dreadfully
mad when a policeman
stops the fun Where
the dickens is the darger
of not beieg able to
understand a Russian ?
ft * *
“I beg pardon,”
said the awkwark youth,
as he stepped on the hem of her flowing robe.
44 Don’t mention it,” she replied sweetly. All
trains are occasionally stopped by cattle.’
* * *
The Centennial reporter for the Argus
said “ there was th<m seen on the platform as
grand a display of snow-white hair as, perhaps,
ever graced any scene.” An active barber would
have robbed the ceremony of aU its glory in ten
minutes. It depended upon trifles light as ’air.
* * *
A correspondent says that a sensible girl,
on being asked by her father how she would like
a nice, respectable husband of 50, answered by
saying that she would rather have two of 25 each.
* * *
' Miss Evelyn Harris, daughter of George
Hurls, merchant, Brisbane, has just b*en engaged
to Mr R G Casay (candidate for the Warrego at
the general election in April), and partner of
Donald Wallace, of Melbourne, M.L.A. for
Clermont.
* * *
There are a good many strange features In
London journalism, For some years past a writer,
whose signature was “ Miranda,” furnished sundry
columns of irly • irly gossip every week to the
Lady’s Pictorial, and now it comes as rather a
shook to the readers of that paper to discover that
“ Miranda” was a male individual, and bore the
name of Archibald M'Nelll. Young girls, middle-
aged girls, elderly girls—girls of all sorts, in fact
—poured their confidences into “ Miranda’s” ear.
They wrote asking him to expound dark points re-
garding stockings and frilling ; they consulted
him on oosmsties and hair washes and things that
would remove plmpl s; they took his opinion on
the subject ot trimmings for delicate garments
which are worn in the silent watches of the night
and “ Miranda” answered them all and breathed
soft corfllences into the pink ea<? of the public.
Ttey all gave themselves away under the impres-
sion that he was a woman, and ho itain't a woman
after all. And now “Miranda” has come to a
sudden end. It would have been all right, doubt-
less, if he had confined himself strictly to writing
woman items, as that is au occupation at which
comparatively few men get mu dared if they are
ordinarily careful, but he went away to report the
Bmi th-Kilrain prize-fight, and a day later his d-jad
body was fo md In th ? Seine. The man who had so
long dispensed sage advice on stockings a*id car-
sets and other articles of underclothing had been
robbed and strangled by some “pug.” or other,
and had carried with him into eternity an exten-
sive knowledge of how the British female is made
up When last seen alone, “Miranda” was
mashing a barmaid and liquorlng-up, and ho left
behind him a large assortment of unopened cor-
respondence from girls who wanted to learn how
they could prevent white satin shoes from getting
baggy, and thus leaving an impression that their
feet were twice their proper size, mixed with
epistles from little darling I who wore anxioui to
know what effect asses’ milk would have if ap-
plied externally to a waist that was 17 inches
round. Some one else will have to settle these
points now, for “Miranda” is waving the dish-
cloth of fashion from the battlements of the
Golden Shore.
* * *
The poor commercials and bookmakers
who travel overland between Sydney and Brisbane
are whooping around for protection on that line.
Carriages filled with both sexes are allowed
to travel without lights at night time.
• *
No. 13 office ia certain chambers was used
as a city consulting-room by Dr. , and one day
a sweet little woman walked into No 11, aud sur-
prised the “ toff ’ in possession by pitching him a
plaintive yarn about a nasty swelling between her
shoulder-blades. Feeling sorry for this afflicted
AT THE POLICE STATION.
PRISONER (just recovering from a drunken stupor): “CONSTABLE, WHAT AM I HERE FOR?"
CONSTABLE: "WELL, YOU GOT DRUNK AND KILLED A MAN.”
PRISONER: “THANK YOU. I FEEL MUCH BETTER NOW. I HAD A HORRIBLE DREAM, THOUGH.
THOUGHT I WAS ONE OF THE RECENTLY-APPOINTED Ja.P.”
female he suggested a practical examination of
the nasty place. She blushed becomingly
under the ordeal, then fixed up her draperies
again, and asked No. II what he would advise.
The wretch heaved a contented sigh and an-
swered, “ I should advise you to consult a medi-
cal man. I’m an architect myself.” His myste-
rious visitor had called at the wrong office.
* * *
Age cannot wither, nor custom stale
Fair woman’s regard for the festive male,
If widows of fifty will hang by their necks
Merely for love of the opposite sex.
Miss Annie Hill, of Melbourne, inspired that
verse. She was a silly little, romantic young
thing of fifty—sweet fifty !—whose love was mel-
lowed by experience with a deceased husband.
But Annie laid the whole wealth of her affactioa
at the feet of a widower, and when ho married
somebody else Annie withered like a flower at the
end of a rope attached to the kitchen roof.
Wasn't it Theodore Hook who—for a wager—
stopped the oldest-looking woman ho had ever
seen, and asked her at what time of life ladies be-
came Insensible to manly beauty? The fossil
hobbled off on her crutches, mumbling, “You
must ask somebody older than me."
• * *
The portly form of a certain well-known
Melbourne attorney is now to be seen towering
over the crowd on the George street (Sydney)
Block. He used to be the confidential adviser of
a certain very charming singer, and one day when
it became the duty of an attorney’s clerk to serve
a legal document on him he went out and found
Mm at the delightful suburban retreat of the fair
cantatrice in South Yarra. The clerk had to em-
body tbe circumstances of the interview in an
affidavit subsequently read before Hlginbotham,
0.J,, and the mischievous wretch stated there-
in, with all legal solemnity, that ha found Mr. B.
in the garden swinging a certain vivacious soprano
in a hammock ? And, worse still, the newspaper
fellows went and copied the affidavit and
printed it,
James Berry, the British hangman, had
killed 113 individuals up to the 20th of last month.
Most of them died without a struggle, a few suc-
cumbed to slow strangulation, and one mans
head came clean away from his body in the ex-
citement of the moment Berry, as already men-
tioned in The Bulletin, is "‘a Tory, through and
throngh ’ ; so Is Mrs Bsrry. When baby will let
her run out for an hour she likes to attend an
execution herself, and see James drop ’em. Mrs.
B is 31 came next September, md considered
quite the lady in tier bonnet. Which reminds us
that Nosey Bob has a nice-looking nephew living
at Parramatta, who says uncle is a pleasant old
gentleman when you get to know him intimately.
And, while we are throwing off these social items,
it won’t be out of place to mention that Mr. Berry’s
latest victim was Dr. Phillip Cross, a Cork sur-
geon who poisoned his aged wife with arsenic and
strychnine, in order to marry a buxom governess
named Skinner, who became his very own a week
or two after the grave had clos id over the poor
old girl. Dr. Gross (who left £20,000, of which
£6OOO was willed to Miss Skinner) is described as
having had a fine martial bearing, handsomely-
cut features, and a bold, fearless countenance.
He was a splendid cross-country rider, and was
the son of a man whose will contained a clause
bequeathing “ his body to the hounds and his soul
to the devil.’’ Dr. Cross died apparently without
fear, and the executioner said that he felt more
than ordinarily sorry for his victim, who seemed
“ such a brave old man.” Never, perhaps, since
the extreme penalty was first enforced was a cul-
prit supplied with such a coffin as that used for
Dr, Cross's remains in the gaol Extercall/’'ha
coffin was of plain varnished oak, but internally
it was lined with linen, whilst the head of the
dead man rested upon a large pillow covered with
white satin Mr Barry, who does a very exten-
sive business in selling bacon on commission, is in
good circumstances, and was aocompan’ed on his
trip over to Ireland by his wife. Apropos of
bacon, perhaps it is jnst as well for the noble
British public that they are not aware that human
flesh is, in a certain South Sea Island region,
known as “long pig.”
. * *
At Willlamstown (Melbourne) an aged
bridegroom, named dark, has hanged himself in
order that his young wife might “erjoy the roving
life she had been used to.” No woman was ever
guilty of such an unseiflsh suicide.
* * *
Not one Melbourne girl in ten received a
valentine this year, nor did the Sydney postmen
grunt and swear under a weary load on the 14 th.
Sentiment is a delicate plant which grows slowly
in a young country.
• • *
Lord de Bressi Gassy Braasey suggest a
that a Royal Duke ami a military band should be
sent out to Melbourne during Exhibition time “as
striking evidences of Imperial interest ” in Aus-
tralia. The Dnke might be fixed up in a glass-
case while de band marched round him playing
“Rule Britannia!” An excellent recipe for
making loyalty.
* * *
A batch of Tar ar-looking sailors from the
Russian man-of war Rhynda were loiflng round
Melbourne the other night, and one of them was
taken in charge for insulting a woman. While
the culprit was howling foreign swears in the
policeman’s ear, his brother mariners thought to
settle matters peaceably by offering Robert half-a
crown. This shows that Russians are a lot further
advanced in civilisation than politicians want us
to believe.
* * •
It is now pretty plain that dear Bishop
Barry means to return to Husband. The reason
given is that the health of Mrs. B»rry, who is ow
a* - home, will not permit of her returning to Aus-
tralia.
* * *
They say that Slugger Sullivan haa com-
promised himself with an English duchess, but
we don’t believe that of—Sullivan.
** • *
Louise Chalker, a prepossessing damsel,
who was tried in Melbourne, the other day, for
battering another young person on the nose, sys-
tematically challenged all the aged jurymen
When remonstrated with by bis Honor, she
snapped, “Well. I suppose I can be tried by
young me?», if I like 1” Louße did not know much
of human nature, or she would rather have pub
her trust In the bald-headed,
*
About the smartest burglary that has sig-
nalised this season transpired at Terang, Vie., the
other night, when an enterprising yon h un-
hitched the tent from over a sleeping navvy,
folded it, and silently stole away, leaving the
brawny clay puncher snoring at the stars, and
dreaming he was a refrigerated jumbuck prepared
for shipment. The thief has received two months’
for robbery from the person, and precautions
have been taken to prevent him running off with
the gaol.
* * *
The power of the press has been ably
illustrated by Henry Main, of Baaconsfleld, Tas-
mania, who hugged his girl till her stay-busk
penetrated her side, nearly killing her.
* # *
Mr. Tiff and Miss May have rushed into
the holy bonds at South Melbou me It is safe to
conjecture this couple will have many little tiffs.
* * *
Frauk Lockio, of Oakleigh (Vic,), has
steeped his family connections in woe, and got
himself fined t ome pounds sixteen shillings, all
because of his amorous instincts. Fra ok dropped
in to see a lady and her daughter at their own
house the other night, and in his javia l , off-hand
way he chucked mamma under the chin, and seat-
ing himself on her daughter’s knee, cuddled her
earnestly and ki sed her in a most determined
manner. Frank had, he says, done these bold, bad
acts before on many occasions, and the arrange-
ment seemed to suit aU p irties ; but on this even-
ing he failed to observe that the young woman’s
otfcer young man was in com . any, and the result
was a good, old-fashioned row. F. Lockia was
told to get out, furniture was dumped down
on h’s head, his hair was weeded up by the roots,
and his facial aspect was impaired by large pro-
gre-sive scratches. He defended himself to the
best of his abill y, and scon succeeded in routing
the enemy with great slaughter, and covering the
o'her fellow with ignominy and widespread purple
blotches. Frank does not Lockin at that domicile
any more.
* * *
Batter has been selling ia Melbourne
auction rooms at Id. per lb., and local boarding-
houses were never stronger. It's a remarkable
fact that the strongest butter fetches the smallest
price, though the strongest cheese haa the nost
mite.
• ♦ •-
Apropos of the subscription list opened in
Melbourne for a suitable silver wedding-gift to
their Royal Highnesses ths Prince and Princes*) of
Wale 3. We may mention that we have
cn hand a most appropriate donation for
His Royal H'ghness on the occasion. It con-
sists of a verbatim report of the evidence in
the Mordaunt divorce-case, tastefully bound in
brass.
* * *
An interesting piece of society gossip
comes to us from across the-sea. The papers tell
us that the man who wove the s oc’tinga Her
Gracious wore when she was crowned, lived to
weave the pair wherein the rryal shanks were en-
cased on the occasion of the Jubilee ceremonial
at Westminster Abbey.
* * *
The other day Judge Forbes, of N.S.W.,
dropped down in all his maj ?styon War Hat, a poor
little Chinee, and sent him to gaol for contempt
of court, War Hat said he didn't understand
English, and Judge Forces, who had never set
eyes on him before, said he could if he liked, and
locked him up became he wouldn’t. What the
country wants now is some one who will send up
Judge Forbes because ho won’t speak Chinese
and then things will be about square.
* * *
Some time ago that noble peer, the Mar-
quis of Clanricarde, hid to pay £2500 on a vu’gar
libel-suit. The Marquis draws £23,000 a year
from his Irish property, which he has not seen for
13 years, and does a profitable shent per shent
trade in London to eke out his scanty means of
snbslsterce. He lives like a Chinaman, and a
cheap Chinaman at that, and the proceeds of his
three-ball enterprise are carefully invested every
year. Some time ago his starving Irish tenants
applied for a reduction of rent, and were told
through his agent—an unhappy bog-trotter named
Blake—that they might go to perdition, individu-
ally and collectively. Then Clanricarde declared
that Blake had given this answer on his own re-
sponsibility, while he himself was sitting in the
family “spout” devising means to relieve the
suffering peasantry, and some broth of a boy went
out and blew the agent's head off in the gloaming
of an autumn day. A lout named Joyce came out
from the wilds of Galway to fill the vacant billet,
and again Clanricarde was asked for a reduction,
and he replied as before, that the tenants might
elide into eternal fire. Teen, a month or two
later, he- sent along an explanation that
this answer was Joyce’s malevolent invention just
as the previous one had been Blake s, but the man
who fired at Joyca missra bis aim, and the Gal-
way agent sued his master fqr a libel that had
nearly ended in his vitals bepg paved with lead.
He got £2500, and since then Clanricarde haa
been more abjectly Chinese than ever in his
housekeeping in order to make up the loss, and
when young swells come to him in the endeavour
to raise the wind and are told that ho hasn't got
the money himself nut that he has a friend in the
city who might raise it a great raoiitloo, the in-
terest is higher than it ever w-s bef -re, and the
young men get sold up faster and can't rerow
without more endorsements on the back than in*,
the happy days before Joyce brought that libel-
action.


A NOVEL IDEA.
ORIGINATED WITH A MELBOURNE
UNDERTAKER.
A report has been circulated throughout t
city combination of Undertakers are to
formed to put up the price of coffins.
A meeting was held at the City Buffet Cater!
Company’s premises last evening with a view
ascertaining and exchanging ideas as to the bes
method for the advancement of the business h
Melville presided and there was a large atte
dance.
The chairman briefly referred to the rulno
depression at present existing, the prinoipa l
reasons assigned for same being that oi S
Henry Parkes' intention of closing the Devonshir
street cemetery, coupled with the ffiot that he h
given his word to our popular Governor that no
another tody wi 1 be interred, therefore tfcere w:
be no more funerals there j but the most
per bant and paramount reason being the immen
importations of the famous life-giver, St, Lou
Lagar Beer, winch, if s'eps are not taken to su
press its importation into these colonies, meat
“the death-blow to our business as Unde
takers.”
The Mariposa was detained in quarantine a fe
dajs simply because there was a single case t
small pox aboard. This great care taken by th
public health authorises end the won3erfu
quality and brilliancy of that far-famed Sb. Lou
Lager Beer compel us to state emphatically in th
words of Othello “our occupation is gone.”
It was also s ated at the meeting ard from th
vex-/ best authority that it is the intention of a
enterprising firm in Melbourne to open an agenc;
la Sydney and offer prizes to promote its businet
A case of St. Louis Lager Baer, with a coffin—a
extra coffin and a cask of the famous St. Lou
Lager Beer to anyone getting up a club.
Tha reporter left hurriedly, saying, “Isuppcs
your next meeting will take place Ressurectio
Day.”
NOTICE
THE AUSTRAL & SI AN TRUST MANAGEMENT
ASSURiNCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
Present shareholders who have intimated the!
Intention to increase the number of their shares
and those persons who have been waiting recelp
of funds in order to take up shares, must pleas
accept this notice as relieving the Directory from
any promises to holdback allotments beyond the
present month, but as ihe Company is in ample
funds and is only concerned in getting out the
balance of present issues to meet the requirements
of Parliament, PAYMENTS on account of al
NEW applications for shares may be deferred at
bank rate of interest for six months subsequently
to the GENERAL MEETING, to be held early In
March, after which no further shares of either
issue will be male, EXCEPT at a PREMIUM.
The “£1 CASH PREFERENCE SHARES” of
the FIRST ISSUE bearing a preferential dividend
of £8 per cent, per annum, and share of profits
(of which only a very few remain unsold) will no
be allotted save at a Premium of £2 10s. per
share.
The “£5 GUAR ANTE ED PREFERENCE
SHARES” of the SECOND ISSUE, which are
payable in cash or by instalments of Is. par share
up to £1 os per share, or in full at option ol
holder, and which bear a preferential dividend ol
£6 per cent per annum when paid up in foil and
share of profits, or a preferential bonus of £2 per
cent, per annum, on and while the £3 15s. remain-
ing unpaid is guaranteed by approved securities
and a share of profits after a payment of pre-
ferential dividends on first issue, will not be
allotted after the close of the current month, save
at a premium of £1 per share. And,
The “£1 PREFERENCE SHARES” of ihe
THIRD ISSUE, which are payable at option or In
full up to ss. per share in cash, or by Instalments
of Is. per share per month, and which bear a pre-
ferential dividend at the rate of £6 per cent, per
annum and share of profits after payment of all
other preferential claims, will not be allotted after
close of current month, save at a premium of ss.
par share.
*** All the above premiums may be increased
as to all applications made subsequently to notice
cf increase.
CHIEF OF (TICES :
Corner of KING and ELIZABETH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov*
ing all Impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
TB[EY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them moat
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S.
Fort Adelaide, October 30 1886.
England,
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row's Dandelion Bitters. 1 have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
aud been under several doctors for It without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 31, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily aliment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
"I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ M« eb t. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
V-
EMBROCATION
•3
EVERYWHERE
w 3
m
/OSEPHSOire OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT In the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE, But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUOALYTUS, now BO
famed throughout the world,
Josephson’s Ointment Is purely vegetable, and
GUARANTEED FREE FROM ALL POISON-
OUS QUALITIES. NO ARTIFICIAL COLOR-
ING, as the GREEN color is extracted from the
pure green plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
READ THIS LETTER, and TRY FOR YOUR-
SELVES.
Messrs. E, Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you
feel disposed.
I remain, yours, &0.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters snows they are superior to all
others, and equall d by none.
FACTS SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
STATUTORY DECLARATIONS.
“I, GEORGS HEWETT, do hereby solemnly
and sinoere'y declare as follows i—
“ That I fesl it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakn -iss of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION rr DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S ‘•SITTERS a day in a little water
and I hope others suffering from the same com-
plaint will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT
215 Pitt-street.
Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, befo
me,
’* (Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P."
Then try them, and ask for ROW'S STBANB
BITTERS, prepared solely by
BDW, ROW and COMPANY,
Aii Old Australian writes from England.
Dear Bulletin,—l lived in Australia for
many years. On my return to England it became
my habit to look upon “ home” matters from a
colonial point of view, and to compare the two
countries in their social, political, and climatic
conditions. The opinions I have formed, right
or wrong, are original, honestly expressed, and
may serve to amuse these who have been long
enough from “ home” to have partially forgotten
its distinguishing characteristics. Emigrants
generally leave England with regret, and retain,
amid thnr varying fortunes, a strong desire to
return. Old associations, tinted with the roseate
hues of hope and sentiment, have left indelible im-
pressions on their minds Separation has caused
them to dwell upon all that is best and brightest
in the picture, to the exclusion of its darker
The feeling is natural, but when pos-
sessed in an inordinate degree it has a tendency to
limit, if not to*mar, the success that generally
waits upon sustained effort and perseverance. It
induces haste in the selection, and recklessness in
the conduct of business. How many thousands
tell the tale of mistakes made and oppor-
tunities neglected in the hurry to make money
and get “homo?” When the object is achieved
jn how few cases does the reality answer expecta-
tions? Altered tastes, matured habits’, and loss
of sentiment, all help to dispel the illusion. In no
case is th* revulsion of feelirg greater than In
respect to our climate. Disappointment, deepen-
ing to disgust, is the first feeling on a revived ac-
quaintance with it. He who has lived In an
almost endless sunshine, unpleasant at first from
its monotony, hut which has grown upon him
until its prese r ce has become a necessity, is ill-
fitted to admire, or even to tolerate, the opposite
extreme of drizzle and fog for the greater part of
the year. In some seasons, from the middle of
October to the end of M*y, there are but few
glimpses of the s >n, and very little of what de-
serves to be called daylight Spring, about which
poets have raved, is sometimes' ushered in wich
two months of piercing east wii ds, which seem to
penetrate to the marrow, cutting through the
clothing ai though ’twere mere gos miner, drying
the country, and stunting the vegetation, much
as the “ hot wind ” does in Australia ; inducing
colds, bronchitis, asthma, phthisis, and a whole
train of ailments Bummer cannot be depended
upon, for oftentimes there are not more than
two or three weeks of really warm and bright
weither, and this is not certain, tor days’together.
With overhanging clouds, alternating from wet to
dull, and dull to wet, it often becomes a marvel
how crops can be grown and housed, Asa great
portion of your people have to live by labour,
some of them are probably discontented with their
lot. I will, for their especial behoof, attempt a
short sketch of the conditions under which thou
sands of men in England are condemned to live
and work Ic will show how great a “ faotor ”is
climate in the sum of bumm health and happi-
ness. Remember, I speak mostly from the poor
man’s point of view, Tne “Squire” jumps on
bis horse and goes hunting in rain and fog. Exer-
cise keeps him warm Excitement gives zest to
his occupation. Return! g home, he changes his
clo’hes, and ea’s and d inks of the best with a
t- emendous appetite. The rich man of Belgravia,
in his magnificent rooms, splendidly lighted
and warmed, feels an added- sense of c m-
fort by a comparison with the inclement
wea f her outside. Not so vith the poor fel-
low who sweeps the streets and shovels the
snow from his doors ; his heme is a wretched
house, with small, inconvenient apartments, and
not many of them, in a crowded eourt built in
by houses and high brick walls, green anl dank
with continued moisture, over which the sun can
rever penetrate. A yard, too small for children
to play in during the best weather, paved with
coarse, unsightly atones; the oflio s anda-oessories
dore to the dorr ; the man’e wages 18s. per week
to support him?elf, wife, atd family of six chil-
dren ; a stinted allowance of U cat. cf coal per
week, any excess to come out of t>- e already too
scanty supply of food. Time, winter: trow falling
and covering the yard and street with an inch of
slush ; darkness in daytime almost opaque ; the
children come in from school, blue nosed with the
cold, their feet wet and chill ; they huddle round
the poor apology for a fire ; in due time the father
arrives, wet to the skin, and, having litt’e or no
change of clothing, suffers in consequence. By
the poor light of a taliow-candle or humble lamp
the elder children, at the one table in the house,
attempt to work out their schocl-lessous while
sorely disturbed and annryrd by the squalling
and quarrelling of the younger branches. A
keen N.K. wind sets io, converting (he
slush Into solid ice, and, penetrating through every
nook and cranny, cuts Dke a knife; clothing too
poor and thin for the season, and the food poor in
quality and deficient in quantity, ill-dressed and
ill-cooked meat, a thing oftener dreamt of than
tasted, a bit of bacon or a herring or two in its
stead ; weather changes from frest to a drizzle of
two or three weeks’ continuance, during which the
wretched house is the or ly possible shelter ;
dirt and darkness everywhere ; the wife seamstress
can hardly thread her needle or continue her work
away from the lamp ; the washing to be dried at
the too-small fire, for they cannot hang the clothes
outside. Some cf the children fall sick, and as
the “parish doctor” is the only one within ths
means of the father, he is called in to prescribe
medicines, nourishing diet, warm flannel clothing,
extra blankets on the beds, and a fire ups’airs, and
this out of IBs per week ! Is It strange, that,
under circumstances such as ihese, the father
should cccaaionally find his way to the “ pub.,”
where there is always warmth, light, end a cheap
oblivion from the dull miseries that surround him ?
I should like all labourers in Australia to
have one glance at the damp, dark horrors
of an existence like the one described, and
which, I am sorry to say, is not overdrawn. Would
it not make them appreciate the difference of the
conditions under which they live, and teaoh them
to be thankful for the bettered prospects of their
children and connections? Of course, the pinch-
ing poverty and unwholesome surrounding of the
British workman are due not alone to climatic
differences. Pressure of population, monopoly of
land, and unlimited competition also play a tre-
mendous part, and) with the rapid absorption of
Australian territory by London syndicates, the
continual stream of pauper immigration to the
great colonial centres, it is only a question of a
few years and the condition of the Australian
workman will, I fear, greatly resemble that of his
English brother. If he only awakened to a sense
of the probable future and safeguarded his
present by expelling the Chinese, compelling
the Government to aid local Industry, and
nationalising all the public estate in land, he
might avert, such a doom But he won’t, and
Nemesis will come in due course. I would not have
you infer, from the above remarks, that I consider
the English climate, on the whole, unhealthy.
The rural population, who are exposed to it the
year round, are hale and strong, and would be re-
markably so were they better fed. The living of
the squire added to their labour would produce
fine samples of manhood. Artisans and persons
of sedentary occupations, who take the air in
homoeopathic doses, are the greatest victims to
climatic changes. The average Englishman at 40
becomes stout and portly, especially in the waist,
looks well preserved, and at least 10 years
younger than the Australian at the same age.
Women at 43 are stout and ruddy, with little
tendency to “ scrag and parchment." Premature
baldness and gray ness (though much on the in-
crease) is not so common in England as in Aus-
tralia. Some of the seamen on our coasts are like
knotted oak at 70 years of age. Theirs, perhaps,
may be cases of the “ survival of the fittest.”
You will be surprised to learn that the returned
colonist, who has got through the cold and damp
of winter, is sweating, panting, and pro-
strate at what he terms the heat of
summer. With the thermometer at HOdeg.
in the sun, he grumbles more than he would at
loOdeg. in Australia. In the winter we have
little besides fog—in the summer steam. When
favoured with a bright summer (like this last) the
appearance of the country is truly delightful—
such a wanton luxuriance of verdure studded and
variegated by the mixed tints of myriads of wild
flowers and hedgerow-blossoms sweetly scented.
Imagination in its wildest dreams cannot picture
fairer scenes. It is sad to think we get them so
seldom—their continuance is so short and their
occasional existence only purchased at the cost of
a maximum of discomfort and wretchedness. 1
have never yet met a returned colonist who likes
our climate. The dulness and continued damp-
ness ha», in every case, a depressing influence on
the spirits from which there’s no escape. We are
agreed upon two points—lst, that it forces on
emigration ; 2nd, that it teads to reconcile one to
death.—Yours truly, A Growler. London,
December 22, 1887.
+
Walgett (N.S.W.) annual races are fixed
for June 21 and 22. The prizes for the three
handicaps are 100, 50, and 30 sovs. respectively.
“We shall see,” is now the motto of old
Jack Robertson and his little crowd. Possibly
they will see—by-and-bye. Just now they are
very blind Indeed.
Ben Hoare, who ran that sickly Frae
trade paper, the Geelong Times, for some years,
has chucked up the miserable thing, and joined
the Melbourne D.T.
Thus Sydney D.T. : “The Minister for
Lands has been absent for several days from his
office, owing, it is said, to indisposition." “It is
said" is good—excellent, in fact.
A Melbourne paper says Madame Marie
Roze will visit Australia under engagement to
Colonel Mapleson. We guess it’s the other way
round. Marie Roza married the Colonel long ago.
Watery Justice Foster, of N.S.W., has
been congratulated on his accession to the Bench
by the Local Option League. But where would
Foster be if the lar had local option in the matter
of j adges ? Eh ?
The MacMlllion, speak'ng at Newtown,
said : “ We must nail the flag of Freetrade to the
mast.” The flag of Freetrade won’t stand nailing
—it is made of imported shoddy. You might as
well try to nail a shadow to the mast now.
Daniel Connolly, 8.A., London, who died
at Melbourne last week, was a remarkable man.
He was Professor of Classics in the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College, but was blind and had been born
so. He was erudite and courteous, and beloved
by the girls.
The Bulletin notices with much gratifi-
cation that on the list of subscribers to the
Prince of Wales’ silver-wedding fund appears the
name of a squatter who not long ago discharged
all the white men from his staMon, and replaoad
them with Kanakas and Chinamen. Also, that
the fund ha? been ac df d to by all the most noto-
rious professional usurers of Melbourne.
Mr. Jacob Ruseart, the Blayney (N.S.W.)
Dick Whittington, was one of the pioneers for
Cobb and Co. over the Blue Mountains long before
the iron-horss reached the big Zfg-Z Few men
could take a team over One Tree Hill as Jacob
could. He now handles the ribbons of the prin-
cipal pub. in ths town of which he was thrice Lord
Mayor, and his whisky is voted as good as most of
the “ pizen ” sold in the outer world of N.S.W.
Bishop Moorhouse, of Manchester, whin
at Melbourne had a weakness for roaming into
the bush and climbing hlHsand descending valleys
on foot. Shortly before he shook the accumulated
dust of Victoria from bis boots and gaiters, a
scoffing bushman stuck him up on the roadside
one day and ask»d him the shot test cut to Heaven.
“ Turn to the right and keep straight ” promptly
answered James Melbourne.
Robinson, of the Victorian Hansard staff,
was given as a valentine to hia sire in the year
A.D. 1837, and was called at the baptismal font
by the sweet names of William and Valentine.
On the anniversary last week, the Dundreary
Wheeler, tbe genial Hadley, and the poetic Lough-
ran assembled in an attic of the Parliament
House, and drank success to iheir smiling col-
league. Robinson was imported from England by
the Freetrade Argus many years ago.
The deepest place yet sounded is off the
coast of New Guinea, where bottom has been
found at a depth of 26,700 feet We devoutly
trust the place his been marked, and live in hope
that the magnificent Auckland (N.Z.) Harbour
Board will annex the territory, so that Dredger
No. 121 may have a chance of f stablishing a
colonial record for deep-sea mud-lifting. Besides,
it will keep tbe wl ite elephant out of mischief,
now that Calliopa Dock is un fait accompli.
The delivery-boxes at Sydney Gr.P.O. are
cloeed for three or four hours in the middle of the
day whenever an English mall happens to arrive
In the morning, and yet, in comparison, the staff
is twice as large as that at London or New
York. In those cities delivery-boxes are nob
doted even for five minutes when a foreign or
other large mail arrives. We notice, by the way,
that the Postmaster-General’s public-house—the
Crown and Anchor—is not closed when goods
arrive which require sorting.
Editor Bulletin. - Sir, —The big impos-
ing houses of Sydney are the bulwark of the Free-
trade party. Allow us to give you an example of
the genuine nature of these people. Recently
they signed an agreement to raise the price of
men’s colonial tweed trousers by 10 per cent. As
our firm is a comparatively young one, we have
to cut things liner and work more keenly than
these big houses, with their monopoly of trade..
Consequently, we could not see our way clear to
sign the agreement, and these champion Free-
traders have brought pressure upon the manufac-
turers, with the result that we have received
notice to day that we can no longer be supplied
unless we join the combination. Fortunately, a
large supply on hand will keep us going until we
may be able to overcome this unj nst, and, to ns,
most injurious attempt to restrict trade.—We are,
sir, yours respectfully, Cook, Rhodes, & Co.,
Wynyard street, Sydney. Feb, 18,
FANCIED SECURITY.
Some years ago a fine steamship was one stormy
afternoon running up the Irish Channel; she had
safely crossed the thousands of miles of ocean
between Australian and British waters, and in a
few hours it was confidently expected by those on
board that the end of their voyage would be reached.
The captain was a fine genial fellow, the officers
were favourites with the passengers, and before they
parted the passengers, invited the commander and
his chief officers to meet them in the saloon and
recjive their congratulations and thanks. Very
jovial no doubt they were, but while they feasted
the vessel was being driven out of her course,
and was slowly but surely steaming on to destruc-
tion. When their danger was discovered it was
too late; skilful steamship availed nothing, the
wind and sea proving too strong for them, and the
unfortunate vessel was dashed to pieces on the
coast, and the captain, several of the officers,
and many of his passengers and crew were
drowned. What was the cause of this
terrible shipwreck 1 Fancied security and con-
sequent carelessness and neglect of duty. Don’t
we beg of you, reader, if you have indications
of kidneys or liver difficulties dwell in a “ fool's
paradise” by reasoning with yourself that it will
soon pass away, or “ wear itself out, ” as too many
express it. Nay! it will wear you out and send
you to an untimely grave unless promptly grappled
with You must remember that the dread Bright’s
disease of the kidneys has no symptoms of its own,
and you maybe near to death’s dcor and not know
it until too late. If you have a deposit in your
urine, pains in the back, a restless uneasy feeling,
capricious appetite, no ambition, but rather, dull
and listless ; beware, as these are among the first
symptoms of serious kidney difficulty. Resort at
once to Warner’s safe cure and safe pills, follow
the dietary directions laid down, which accompany
the medicines, and you will recover. But neglect
these symptoms until they have aroused you by
manifestations that cannot be poo-poohed, and the
chances are against your recovery. As you value
your life do not trifle with disease, nor fancy your-
self secure, when your better judgment tells you
otherwise.


Centrauy
SITUATED
AND
ACCESSIBLE
TDAUTHE LEADHR
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
R|SBAN £
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
OF THE
EQUATOR
S 3
m
ii
OtfO 3
//H/h
ns
: T
I'/'iailii
,
;0
DAN
c>!
U.
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH ML THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS&c.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached for the convenience of Ladies. Ladies’ Drawing-room, with a mapiflcent view of the Brisbane River and
One-Tree Hill. Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hot and Cold Plunge and Shower Baths. if ? OOIIIROIAL ROOI.
Seitlemen’i Smoking, Reading, and Corresponding Room. All Letter* and Telegram* applying for Apartment* will receive prompt attention. C. B. PAWIBMw
£5O £5O
Sheffield Handicap.
ATHLETIC SP9RTS
Will be held at
331 a,37"n.e3r,
EASTER MONDAY
(2nd APRIL, 1888.)
PROGRAMME:
SHEFFIELD HANDICAP of £so.—Distance,
15'J yards. First prize, £35 ; second, £lO ;
third, £5, Nomination, 7s, 6d, ; Acceptance,
7e. 6 1
YOUTH’S RACE (Handicap).—For youths under
18 jears of age. ICO yards First prize, £1;
seccnd, 10s Fn*ranoe, Is.
THREE-LEGGED RACE —Prize, £l. Distance,
100 j ardr. Entrance, Is.
DISTRF.T H vNDICAP of £5. 130 yards. Open
true ideats within a radius of 10 miles from
Blryney. First prize, £1; second, £1 En-
trance, Is.
TILTING AT THE RING (on horseback). First
ir.za, £1; second, 10s. Entrance, Is.
BO ITS’ RACE (Handicap).—For youths under 14
years Distance, 75 yards. First prize, ioj.;
second, ss. Entrance, Is.
GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE, for half-an-hour. First
pr?za, £2 10s ; second, £1 ; third, 10s. En-
trsncG 2s 6d»
PUBLICANS’ R iCB (Handicap).—For all publi-
cans within a radius of 30 miles. Prize, £5.
Distance, 120 yards. Entrance, 4s.
HOP, STEP, and JUMP.—First Prize, £1 iOs. ;
second, 10s. Entrance, Is.
HURLING MATCH. (Special prize of £5 by Mr.
F. Mallon). Entrance, Is,
RULES AMI REGULATIONS.
Sports will commence at 11 a.m. sharp.
All competitors must appear on their marks re-
spectably dressed.
Any runner going over his mark before the
pistol ij fired vill be put back—first time, one
yard ; amond time, two yards ; third time, will be
di’cmiiftacl.
1 t o starters for each event or no race ; four
sta. Lers or no second prize.
Protests (accompanied with a fee of 55.) must
be lodged with the Secretary within ten minutes
after the event is run
Nominators for the Sheffield Handicap must
send in to the Secretary at the time of entry their
performances for the past two years.
Nominations for the Sheffield Handicap must be
in the hands of the Secretary not later than 8 pm.
on MONDAY, 19th March.
Handicaps to be declared on THURSDAY, 22nd
March.
Acceptances to be in not la'er than 8 p.m. on
SATURDAY, 31st March.
Post entries for all other events except the
Sheffield Handicap.
JOHN MELLOR,
Hon. Seo.
3DJR_ 33_ O’. BOY 1Z> 3
L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S. and L.M. Edin.,
registered in Great Britain and New South Wales,
late surgeon to H.R H. Princess Louise and late
Resident Medical Officer to the French Hospital in
London, specialist for the treatment of all Nervous
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter or personally free of
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8, Bligh-street, off
Hunter-street, Sydney,
THE GREAT TOORaK ESTATE,
comer of Toorak and Glenferrie Roads, TOORAK,
WILL BE
SOLD BY AUCTION
IN VILLA AND MANSION SITES
on SATURDAYS, 11th and 18_h February next,
TERMS: 10 per cent, deposit; balance, 3,6, 12,
and 18 months at 6 per cent.
TIT-E, CERTIFICATE.
Solicitor to the Estate:
W. H. LEWIS, Esq., 95 Collins at W , Melbourne.
Surveyor:
LLOYD TAYLER. K/q , 53 Little Colllns-st, W.,
Melbourne.
Auctioneers in Conjunction.
MUNRO & BAILLIKU, Colllns-st,, Hast.
r> S. TUCKRTT, Collins st. West.
THOS. F. GUMMING, Corner of Collins and
William Streets.
J. J. BRENNAN, Grattan st., Carlton.
From whom plans and all particulars can be
obtained.
The Hon. T. F. Cunningham, M.L.C., Austra-
lian Club, Melbourne, will purchase allotments on
receipt of instructions for country buyers who can-
not attend the sale at the lowest rates.
THE land is the best ever yet submitted by
subdivision around Melbourne, and it is
admittedly the acme and perfection of the most
fashionable, the healthiest, the most charming,
and the most romantic spot of Toorak, which, it
is needless to say, stands without a rival amongst
the suburbs of Melbourne. The Estate, which is
surrounded by Mansions, has a beautifully pano-
ramic view. For accessibility to the City the
Estate excels all other fashionable residential sites.
By road it is about t j miles from the Post-offlce;
by rail it is considerably less. The Glen Iris Rail-
way branches off from Burnley, and after travel-
ling one mile and three-quarters reaches the Rail-
way Station to be erected on Mr. Fergueon’s pro-
perty at the Glenferrie-road. This St ition is two
minutes’ walk from the GREAT TOORAK
ESTATE. By rail the City will be reached from
your breakfast-table comfortably in fifteen
minutes. The Toorak Tram, now in course of
construction, will take you from the heart of the
City to within eight minutes’ walk of the Estate
for Threepence, and the omnibuses from the Tram
Terminus to Malvern pass the Estate. Gas and
water laid on. Drags and Conveyances will meet
Intending purchasers at South Yarra Station.
TO PERSONS RESIDING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything In Sydney, send to
R. GIBBINGS & Co.,
jgLGhEHSTTS,
OF
331 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY,
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
The introduction of New Lines and Patents a
Speciality.
DR. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURB
for all Nervous Diseases ; price, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
and the Doctor will tell you at once whether your
case is curable or not. Address—
DR. RICHARDS,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams,-Tattersall's Hotel, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery;
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OF 3ST_S_'W_
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers. Private Dinners, Evening Parties, fco., are
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country ;
here also yon can have good company, good wines— in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and picnic parties provided. Table
ie Hote at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays. No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminster to make her visi-
tors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the Colony,
MRS. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH, MAWLT,
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION, 1888.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION BUILDING.
WILL BE OPEN OPENED on MARCH 14th by HIS EXCELLENCY Rt. Hon. LORD CAR-
KINGTON GCM G. &c . Governor of New South Wales; Under the auspices and the
patronage of Lieut -Governor Sir ALFRED STEPHEN, C. 8., G.C.MG ; The Hon. Sir HENRY
PARKES, G.C.MG., and the Members cf the Ministry; His Sir D £ R^ Y ’
Chief Justice; MAJOR-GENERAL RICHARDSON ; Sir WILLIAM MANNING, K.C.MG.; The Hon.
J H. YOUNG. Speaker of Legislative Assembly; The Right Worshipful the MAYOR of SYDNEY
and ALDERMEN; The Hon. K. H. D. WHITE, M.LC., Executive Commissioner; P. FLETCHER
WATSON, Esq., President Academy of Art. Fine Art Commissioner,
M, LEON CARON has been appointed Musical Director. Under hia baton his Cantata (expressly
composed) wi 1 be performed on the opening day.
o : o
The buildings have been declared as bonded stores. Protection of Patents exhibited will be gazetted.
o : o
APPLICATION for OUT DOOR and Anneve Space received until MARCH 1. For further
Particulars apply to Exhibition Building. H. B * HARDT, Secretary.
QKIIBRIO M THBA X K K.
Sole Proprietor ... ... Mr. John Solomon
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. A. L. Cunard.
OPERA BURLESQUE SEASON.
ENTHUSIASTIC AND BRILLIANT RECEP-
TION of Our
THIRD GRAND PRODUCTION,
A NEW and ORIGINAL COMIC OPERA,
Entitled,
DICK.
A PERFECT FURORE
from the rise of the curtain to the conclusion of
the opera.
One CONTINUAL ROAR of LAUGHTER and
TUMULTUOUS APPLAUSE was the rebut".
Business Manager ... ... Mr. Joe Davis.
Y
RACING CLUB,
ICTORIA
FLBMINGTON.
AUTUMN MEETING
Now Extended to Four Days.
SATURDAY, MARCH 3rd.
TUESDAY, MABOH 6th.
THURSDAY, MARCH Bth.
SATURDAY, MARCH 10th.
Added Money, £8875.
The arrangements for the Comfort of Visitors
are now the most complete in the world.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION FARES.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
COOGBB PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUILDING
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100 ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is. Children half-price
ASHFIBLD RECREATION GROUNDS AND
GARDEN PALACE.
GRAND LADIES’ BICYCLE TOURNAMENT
(by electric light) will be held on THURSDAY
and FRIDAY EVENINGS and SATURDAY
AFTERNOON, February 23 24, and 25.
Programme Two Miles Champion Race
(Ladles).—£l2, £5, £3. Entrance fee, 5s One,
Two, and Three Miles Handicap Race (Ladles).
Entrance fee, ss. Acceptance, 2s 6d. Half-Mile
Handicap Race (Ladies). —£10, £5, £3, Entrance
fee, sa. Acceptance, 2s. 6i. Half-Hour Tourna-
ment (LadiC3).-£2O, £lO. £5. Entrance fee, ss.
One, Three, and Five Miles Professional Race,
Handicap, Gentlemen riders—£lo, £3, £2. En-
trance fee, 5?. Acceptance, 2s. 6d. Kingsley
Bros, will perform each evening. Nominations
close Tuesday, 21st, F. Kingsley (Bennett and
Wood), Clarence-street. Acceptances close Wed-
nesday, 22nd. A. WYBURD, Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees Messrs. Rignold and Alllaor.
Doors open 7. i Performance 8. j Carriages 10.30,
GO AND SEB
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
. Box Flan at Nicholson's and Co.'s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Alhambra music halt.
Qetirge-atreei, Haymarket,
Proprietor and Manager Mr. Frank Smith.
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at 7.80,
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 38 Performers, 38 Performer?.
Under the Condnotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Anstlr.
Sittings as Usnal.
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr, FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington,
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COMB AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
ANNOUNCEMENTS. ANNOUNCEMENTS.—
The great Negro Delineator and favourite, CHAS.
FANNING, will appear on MONDAY NIGHT, on
which occasion we will present to the public a
New Original First Part net rr before dreamt of.
N.B -PERRY and LULU RYANS BENEFIT
on FRIDAY NIGHT.
TO NIGHT,
A NEW WORLD OF FUN.
Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, is.; Balcony, fid.
Til A T K B ROYAL
Under the Direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and MuigrSTli
Lessee, Mr. Sam. Lazar.
THIS (THURDAY) EVENING, February 9,
* and for a limited number of nights,
THE MIKADO,
written and composed by
W. S. GILBERT and Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN.
Prices t —Dress circle, 6a. i Stalls, 3s. i Circle, Is.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.80.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
o» Wbll-known Artists,
Artistically and Numerically the Strongest,
Under the Condnotorshlp of Mr, Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
The other day a well-known politician
from a northern colony went Into Hosie's bar and
had a drink. Taking a great fancy to a pretty bar-
maid, he entered into conversation with her, and,
after preliminaries, asked her to come out with
him one evening. Looking at him straight in the
face she replied: “No, Mr . That is not
what you taught me when I was a pupil in your
class at Sunday-school. ’ He left then wiping his
heard.
An interesting point arises in connection
with some jewellery left (concealed in a bustle) at
a Birmingham hotel. To all intents and purposes
the contents of the bustle are proved to belong to
a Melbourne jeweller, but neither the jeweller nor
Secretary Deakin will stand the expense of bring-
ing over the arrested parties. The Birmingham
police have no legal case. Must they not restore
the jewellery to their r risoners ? And what about
the bustle ?


CJAVK MONEY BY GOING TO LIWLKR’S
kl DURING THE FEBRUARY SALE
Hat and C oat Racks, extraordinary value, from
4|d ea h
Cornice Po’es, with ends and rings, extraordinary
value, from 3s. lid each
Bedro m Toilet Glasses, extraordinary value, from
2s. lid, each
Excellent Clocks, extraordinary value, from os.
each
Bu le ’s Wood Trays,-with stand, extraordinary
va'ue, from 13s 6d, e -ch
Effect ve Oil Paintings, extraordinary value, from
12 '. 6d. each
Horsehair Ctoth Couches, extraordinary value.
from 17s. Gd. each
Cret nne Couches, extraordinary value, from 275.
Gd each
Austrian Drawing room Suites, of 9 pieces, extra
ordinary value, from 160 s. each
Dining Tables, to seat 6 persons, extraordinary
value, fro n 14s. Gd each
Fancy Sitting-r om Tables, extraordinary value,
from 275. 6i each
Pier Glasses, walnut, with fancy inlays, extra-
ordinary value, from 12s 61 e ich
Marr le top Washstands, extraordinary value, from
19a 6d. each
Dressing Tables, extraordinary value, from 7s. Gd.
each
Toilet Chests, with glass attached, extraordinary
value, fro n 39s Gd. e ch
Bookcas s, with gtass doors, extraordinary value,
from 77s Gd each
Writing Tables, covered Tip , Drawer*, &?.,
extrao die ary value, from 355. eaci
Wa v robes, with silvered gl res doors, extra-
ordinary value, from 110 s. each
Chinese Balcony Lounges, ve y st ong, extra-
ordinary value from 13s. Gd each
Chinese Matting, full yard wide, extraordinary
value, from rtii yard
Hard-wearing Fibre Door Mats, extraordinary
value, from 3j, 6d- each
Fancy Door Slip Mats, extraordinary value, from
Is, 9d. each
Hearth Engs in Brussels, extraordinary value,
from 3s, 6 I. each
Chinese Balcony Blinds, strong green ones, ex’ra-
pidlnary value, from 5s 9d each
Superior Japanese Balcony B inds, rerr superior,
extraordinary value, from Bs. 6d. each
Window Blinds in Fancy Holland, specially good,
extraordinary value, from 3s. 93. each
Squares of Carpet, various styles, ex uaordinary
value, from 11s Gd. each
Really Excellent Pattern Tapestry Carpets, extra-
ordinary value, from la Gd each
Splendid B ussela C»rpe% choice colourings, ex-
traordinary value, from 3 s 33. per yard
Full yard wide Stamped pattern Kidder. Carpets,
extraordinary value, from 1?. 63. yard
Oilcloh for stairs or narrow par sages, extraor-
dinary value, from 4d. yard
Lace C -rta'rs —per pair, extraordinary value,
from 3Gd ter pair
Imitation Madras Curtains, per pair, extraordin-
ary value, from 7s 61 par pair
Tapestry Window Hangings, per pair, extraordin-
ary value, from I7s Gd per pair
Capital Cheff mi r Sideboards, extraordinary
value, from 42s 63. each
Sidebards in mahogany and oak, extraordinary
value, £l7 10s. each
Bedsteads, *o combine stretcher chair as well,
with cushions, from 19s. 61. each
Really excellent Key lets Stump Bedsteads, 2tft. x
6ft, f om 10s 63. each
Splendid line in Half-tester Single Bedsteads, 2Att.
by 6ft, Gin , from 17s Gd. each
Strong, full sized Haif-tester Bedsteads, from 41* ft.
x 6ft. Gin., from 255. each
An excellent Fourpost Double Bedstead, 4,lft. x
6ft Gin , from 27s 63. each
Beautifully mount d Black and Brass Bedstead,
. 4|ft. x 6ft. Gin,, from 90s. each
Astonishing Strong Double Bedsteads, 4 ',ft. x 6ft.
Gin., from 45s eaeh
Wire mattresse: —eight different qualities, from
14s each
Exquisite Comer Whatnots, from 11s. 61. each
The celebrated Java Super Kapok (if small quan-
tities), from la. lb.
Excellent Wool Flock, 3d. lb.
Palliasses o’ best straw, 6s. par pair
Flock Mattresses, In fancy tick, full size, from
18s each
Java Kapok Mattress, in best fancy tick, full size,
from 30s. each
Mosquito Net Curtains, in 120 in, neb, single size,
from 10s, Gd seC
Mosquito Net Curtains, double size, from 14s. 6i.
set
Beautiful Tea Sets in chinaware and gilt, from
19s. Gd. set
Very excellent Dinner Service, from 235, 83.
service
Mikado Dinner Services, from 90 3. service
Sots of wonderful value Jugs, from 23. 3d. set
Cups and Saucers, from 2s, per dozen
Filters, and really excellent they are, from ss. 6d.
each
Superior Glass Tumblers, from 3s. 63. dozen
Boots for Men, Sbrong Elastic Sides, from os. 3d.
pair
Boots for Sunday, very stylish, from Bs. 6 I a pair
Lovely coquettish Ladies’ Shoes, from on. pdr
Extra Stror g Boys' Laoe-up Boots, from Is. 6d.
pair
Strorg coppertoed Boys' School Boots, from 2s.
9d, pair
Ladies' lovely Lace up Boots, extraordinary value,
from 6 s 9d. pair
Ladies' beautiful Button Boots, extraordinary
value, from 7s. lid. pair
Children's Shoes, extraordinary value, from
pair
Boys suits in Tweed, extraordinary value, from
4s Hd. suit
Youths’ Suits in Tweed, extraordinary value, from
103. 6d. suit
Meffs Trousers, extraordinary value, from ss, Gd
pair
Men’s Trousers and Vests, extraordinary value,
from 10s. 63.
Men's Tweed Suita, extraordinary value, from
21s. suit
Ladies’ Coivets, immense assortment, extraordin-
ary value, from 2s lid. each
Ladies’ superior Frilling and Raffling, extraordin-
ary value, from si. yard -
Ladies Print Dress Material, extraordinary value,
from 2|d yard
Ladies Groves, rare chance, extraordinary value,
from 2s 9d pair
And after these prices and the list have been
carefully gone through go straightway and make
out a list of jour requirements and get them at
LAWLER’S Central Emporium, 608 George-street,
S; dney.
Those who are in the country and would like to
reap the advantage and hentflt of purchasing at
LAWLER’S have only got bo write in requesting
a copy of the Illustrated General Catalogue to be
sent them and it will go forward by the first post.
Call
or
Wrl'e.
ritablished 1860.
LAWLER’S,
SYDNEY.
Call
or
Write,
Lots of Peopla
get bilious, have heavy headaches, mouth foul,
yellow eyes, See., all the direct result of impure
blood, which can be throughly clear sed, renewed,
and enriched with dr bell’s (Kidney and Liver)
bitters. It acta at the same time on the kidneys,
liver and bowels, and has more real virtue in a
bottle than can be found in any other remedy for
the same class of diseases.
The Chinese in Victoria.— On many of the sheep-farms
and sugar plantations, Chinamen are employed to assist, and
the faith that the inhabitants of the Fiowery Land have in
the virtues of Freeman’s Genuine Chlorodyne may be in-
ferred from the fact that most cf the sheep-owners and
planters order onehundred and twenty dozen of Freemans
Chlorodyne at a time for the use of John Chinaman and .he
other employes. A ge-tleman, in writing to Mr Freeman,
says ‘ I have much pleasure in testifying to the excellent
curative properties of your Chlorodyne in many diseases
daring many years' residence in New Zealand. I have given
it repeatedly and always with gool effect, both on
Europea: s and Celestials, and have never found it fail to
give relief after two or three doses."—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ”
only Reject substitutes as they a'e worthless. Trade
Mark, an Elephant *
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottle*. Old wine. 410
George-atreet, near King-street Arcade.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair resto era and dyes md use Rowlands’
Macassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the beet pre-
server, s renglben r, and baautifier of the hair Sold also in
a golden colour lor fair-haired ladies and children. Row-
lands’ Kalydor remove* freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions and p« doces a beautiful complex'© i. Ask dealers in
perfumery for Rowland s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
BE AUTIFIERS.
Ladies, you cannot make ftir skin, rosy oleeks and spark-
ling eyes with all the cosmet’cs • f France, or g of
the world, while in poor health, and nothing will give ion
such good health, strength, buoyant spirits and beauty as
Dr Soule’s American Hop Citteis. A trisl is certain p-oof.
See another column.—“ Telegraph."
WORTHLESS STUFF.
Not so fast my friend; if yon could ser the strong, healthy,
blooming men, women and children that have been raised
from beds of sloknst s, suffering, and almost death, by tie
use of Dr. Soule's American Hoo Bitters, you would say
a Glorious and invaluable remedy ” See another column.—
Philadelphia Press.”
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects
Simple in application— surein effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burns powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, are at the same time most
destructive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams
Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown. Whole-
sale from Messrs Elliott Bros and E. Prosser & Co.*
You cannot do better, if you feel dull and languid, and
out of sorts generally, than to try Dunstonb’s Compound
Essence of Dandelion. A few doses will brace up the
nerves, dear the brain, and make you feel fit and well A
perfect blood purifier and strengthener of the whole system
Read testimonials wrappjid with each bottle as to the mar-
vellous efficacy of this preparation. A sure cure for all Liver
and Ktdney Disorde-s, as well as Gout, Rheumatism.
Sciatica, and ail Nervous Diseases. Sold by all Druggists
»t ss. per bottle. Wholesale agents: Elliott Bros Ltd
Sydney,
Fo iDP ■ r Consump nvss.—Scott's Emulsion op Puke
Cod Liv Oil with Hypophosphites op Limb and
Soda, is a most wonderful food for the Consumptive It
not only gives st'ength and increases the flesh, but heals
the Irritation of the throat and lungs It is very palatable-
children take it like milk, and in all wasting diseases both
f >r adults and children it is a marvellous food and medicine
Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. fid.*
Doctors
Are getting more and more into tte habit tf pre-
scribing proprietary medicines in their practice,
especially that known as Dr bells (Kidneys an i
Liver) bitters for diseases of the kidneys,
liver and bladder. They know from experience
ihat it is of more value in such diseases thai
prescription they can write.
any
f-
ds
inB
LARGEST
in the (jinny
SYDNEY.
SSSB
/W:
BBFGRB TAKING,
(FROM
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine."— Proverbs 17-c, 22-u.
GAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZIFIRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,”
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food. It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds. Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d,, from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the Manufacturer, W. F. GAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Camperdown, Sydney.
Beware of Imitation!, Take BO Substitute.
sM-j
m
AFTER TAKING.
(*■ol* un.)
H E HAS BEEN THERE.
Mr. G. W. Garrett, the well-known and popular
sub-editor of the Sporting Life, writes :—lt gives
me much pleasure to state that, having used St.
Jacobs oil for rheumatism, braises from football,
as well as for cycling accidents, and after hard
riding, I consider it the most perfect remedy I
have ever used. I can strongly recommend it to
athletes everywhere."
Y ET ANOTHER.
Among the many marvellous cures performed
by St. Jacobs oil which have come under the
observation of Messrs, J. W. Henley and Co,,
patent medicine vendors at 543 Commercial-road,
London, E., is that of Mr. S. Digby, formerly pro-
prietor of The King’s Arms, Stepney Causeway,
now of 34, Brook-street, Ral cliff, who, was an
intense sufferer for years with rheumatic gout,
during which time he employed medical men and
tried numerous remedies said to be specifics in the
case indicated, obtaining but little benefit, until
he used St. Jacobs oil, the great conqueror of
pain. A few applications of this marvellous oil
completely and almost instantly removed the pain.
As Mr. Digby expresses it: “One bottle of St.
Jacobs oil did me more good than anything else I
ever tried."
)U
1
THE SECRET OF ENGLAND’S GREATNESS.
“ W hat Is the sourae of England’s might?
A nd what is always true and right ? "
T he teacher asked. The answer bright,
“ The Waterbary 1 ”
“ E xplain how that may be, my lad,
R eally I think you must be mad ;
B elieve me you’ll feel very bad.
Quite shortly, very.”
U nhappy boy ! he turned and fled,
R emarking—“ Oh, the old gag’s dead,
Y on must have something else instead—
Try Waterbury.”
Pum Jtfaty and ffops<
fflausan’s
Jlfsw Qo&lf (Champagne £a£ez»
Phe pesft Peeond,
'
A
SO POPULAR
an article as Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet toilet
soap must be just what the public wants. Try it.
All chemists and dealers in perfume in the colony
keep it.
N.S.W. possesses 40,087,859 sheep, an in-
crease over the year, before last of 7,518 555 (not
reckoning halt a million which went to Q ie ns
land during the year); 1,581 078 cattle, an in-
crease of 213,231; and 389,119 horses, an Increase
of 27,186.
A Forbes ('ST.S.W.) alderman has been
fined £3 for calling a man “a bald-heaied Jew.”
There was an auction, and he stated that all
Chri«tians and b«ld-headed Jews were invited to
attend, whereupon the only Hebaew in the place
whose wool had departed and whose h= ad was a
dreary void sued him for reflecting on his shiny
apex. We would like to know now how much it
would cost to call a man a bald-headed Christian?
A TOUGH CHICKEN.
Evangelist Burnett has administered the
pledge to one of the gallant six hundred. One
less for Sergeant Dalton to shout for on next
Balaclava anniversary.
Three ladies were discoursing the question
of forgetfulness. “Well,” said one, whose hus-
band was a commercial traveller, “I think my
husband is the most fcrgetful man that ever
existed. He came home the other night after a
trip of several weeks’ duration. We had retired,
and as he was fat'gued he went off to sleep.
Shortly his hand fell to si roking my cheek. At
the same time he said, * Darling, won’t you please
tell me what your real name is ? ”
The old Sydney building, known to our
colonial forefathers as Hyde Park Barracks, with
all its black records of sin, sorrow, and crime, of
scourged hides and broken bones, has merged Into
respectability at last, and is in future to be known
as “Chancery-square.” Lawyers have taken up
their abode therein and where hides were flayed
before suitors will now be fleeced.
There was a time —not so long ago, either
—when the quiet little suburb of A»hfield (Syd-
ney) was a sober ul»ce, where young men went to
bed at half-past 7 p.m., and where everybody fol-
lowed Ihe teachings of that moral cade which
says that a man shall not marry his grandmother
and a lot of things besides. A sinful rink, how-
ever, has changed all that—we don’t mean, of
course, that young men out there marry
their grandmothers, but they nj longer
go to bed at 7.30, and their evenings
are spent in tearing round on rollers.
Almost everybody under the age of 96 now dissi-
pates on ginger-beer and skates at the new Re-
creation Ground, and old parties with one leg in
the grave fasten a slippery contrivance of wheels
and straps on the other one, and cut youthful
capers on i he treacherous asphalt. Mr. Wybutdhes
laid in 2000 pairs of the best skates to meet the
increasing demands of a demoralUed public, and
the way of the transgressor is hard, especially
when he comes down with the back of his head
sga'nst it.


o
m
AOOORDKONS, at 7/6, 10/6. 13/6. 16/-, 17/6, 111-
36/-, 30/-, 40/-, 60 66.
Speciality I Patent steel noted Aooordeon, double
bellows, 27/6. . . .
„ Patent German Silver Reeded Ac-
oordeon, double bellows, 30/-,
ITOTICS
thb o3sm."sT
MUSICAL 11STEUMEI
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
BEORQE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
TVBG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favours,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
on the
Ist. OF MARCH
They will remove to more commodious
premises,
8 DOORS FROM PRESENT ADDRESS,
Where they hope by kind and proper atten-
tion and with a new and complete stock of
Instruments and Fittings, to be favoured
with your patronage.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
WILL BE
658 GEORGE-ST., 658
658 658
658 COLONNADE, 658
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
4/8, 3/8, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 31/-, 18/-
80/-, 36/-, 40/-, up to 615.
Gsnuine Laohenal Anglo German ... ... 83/-
steel notes ... «. 6 °/.
7/8, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 26/-, SC/-, to 620.
pedalty I Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-.
LOOK at P AST and P OTUBE
advertisements in
“ The Bulletin.”
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
Ibe colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
p.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSBN,
m GEORGE STREET.
SYDN EY.
Frawnds Hablgle says he is going to get
out a lot of microbes. Frawnds possibly expects
them to come to him in a tank, and is, perhaps,
under the impression that each of them is es big
as a pawnbroker’s sign.
A stranger in far Awamoko
Was bisected white watching a saw go !
His name no one knew,
So they measured his shoe,
And shipped him away to Te Toko.
Sir Samuel Griffith, like Sir Robert Wis-
dom, says that it was his visit to Bngland which
made him a Protectionist, From this it would
appear that a hok at the only Freetrade nation
on earth is the ons dead sure thing to convert a
Freetrader.
Speaking of Parkes’ unblushing assertion
that he never read The Bulletin, the Campbell-
town Hekald (N.S.W.) says
The statement was a falsehood, as it is not so long ago
since we noticed Sir Henry smiling over one of that paper s
pictures at Parramatta, while in the waiting-room. VV e ton a
particular notice of the circumstance on account #r fair
Henry's deep interest in the paper, which caused him
appear oblivious to all around him. Strange, too, when the
train was ready for Sydney, Sir Henry still held fast to his
Bulletin as if it was something that wrs good. We should
not have taken so much notice only we happen to know how
much ’love' there is between the two. Sir Henry is evi-
dently one of the class the ancient writer referred to in his
haste.
A lawyer engaged a new boy recently, and,
as he had suffered t o some extent from the depre-
dations of bis former lad, he determined to try
the new boy’s honesty at once. He therefore
placed a five-pound i ole under a weight on his
desk, and walked cut without a word. Upon his
return, half-an hour later, the note was gone, and
half-a-crown in silver had taken its place. ‘ Boy,
when I went out I left five pounds under this
weight.’’ “Yes, eir; but you see, you hadn't
been gone five minutes when a man came in with
a bill against you for four pounds seventeen and
sixpence. I believe the change is correct. You
paid a bill? “ Yes, sir; there it is all receipted.
The man said it had slipped your mind for the
past four years, and so ” But the lawyer was
stricken insensible with horror. When he re-
covered, the boy was discharged it stanter.
DO YOU KNOW
That the very best Blood Purifier and Spring medicine is db.
bell’s bitters. . _ , n „ ,
That it cures Biliousness, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Head-
ache, and Kidney and Liver comilaints. _
Thai it is a wonderful medicine for restoring and sharpen-
ng the Appetite.
That it cures Scrofula, Salt Rheum, Boils, Pimples, or
other diseases of the Blood.
If you suffer from any of these affections, try db. bell s
bitters at once. , „ . _ , , T .
Db bell s bittees as a Blood Purifier has no equal. it
tones the si stem, strengthens and invigorates, giving new
U The highest Medical Authorities pronounce it the only
known Specific for Kidney, Liver and Urinary diseases, that
ic has no equal as a BLOOD PUIUFIKR, and that it is the
best safeguard against contaeious diseases, both acute and
inronic, keeping the KIDNEYS and LIVER, the great
organs of the body, in healthy condition, disease then being
npossible.
WMAT
WILL convince you of the wonderful cura-
tive properties combined in mi. bell’s
bittebs, if the remarkable cures that have
been effected by its use fail to impress upon your mind this
repeatedly proven fact. Thousands are using it, and all de-
dare that it is a
and even more than
if you are sick, or
WILL
medicine possessing, all
we claim for it. My friend,
in that condition that
sou cannot call yourself either sick or well, go and get a
bottle of DR. Bell’? bitters, and realise yourself how this
medicine hits the right spot, and
puts all the machinery of your body
into working order.
CONVINCE
One of our prominent business men said to us the other
day "In the spring my wife got all run down and could
not eat anything; passing a store I saw aKt of bell s
bitters in the.window, and, I get a bottle. After she had
been taking it a week she had a rousing appetite, and it did
her a world or good. She took three bottles, and it was
the lest investment ever made.
PKOYIDBNOB
Helps those who help themselves. Nature has provided
herbs for the cure of human ailments, and medical science
has discovered their healing powers, and the proper combina-
tions necessary to conquer disease. The result of these dis-
coveries and combinations is—
DR. BELL'S BITTERf-
For many years it has been tested in severe oases of Kid-
ney and Liver diseases, Malaria, Dyspepsia, Indigestion,
Weakness, Lassitude, &0., and invariably it has given relief
and cute. Thousands of testimonials have been given, and
it is most popular wheie best known.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOB
NEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND,
Sydney E. News speaks of a man who
“ parrlcided his progenit or." Perhaps it’s just as
well that he didn’t parricide his descendants.
Michael and John Cailinan experienced a
very cheerful ton minutes In a mine situated in
Bal arat East, one d-y a while back Michael
aad Join were sinking a shaft already 257 feet
below high-water mark, when Michael got his
fine lumpy feet mixed up with the tailrope of the
bucket just after the “heave up” knocks had
been giver, and before he could mention John
Robinson, or any other historical character, he
was upended lik« a jerked pig. His brother rushed
to the rescue j ust in lime to be caught by the wrist
batween Michael's blucher and the rope, Then
th*t awe-inspiring procession started for the sur-
face, Michael staring into the bowels of the earth
with bulging optics, and praying softly, and John
strung by the thumb, keeping an anxious eye on
the light above, and yelling like a fiend. They
travelled the 257 feet in this position, and were
eventually landed intact, but they couldn’t be in-
duced to try it again for a farm and two cows.
Fr >m sn American print
The chiracferistic climate cf Australia and the pugnacity
of the kangaroo makes hunting the hides dangerous. Winter
starts in May and ends in December in that country, ine
rest of the year the heat is intense, the thermometer fre-
quently reaching 140 degrees. Eight men hunt together tor
kangaroos They *rs called a ‘ set.' Wren brought to hay.
the kangaroo jumps like a flash for a hunter s hreas e , ana
tries to crush it in with his fore feet. To prevent this each
man weais across his breast a two or three inch thick mat-
tins. Armed with a spear, with a club attachment at the
other end, they ride upon swifc hors s into a herd. With toe
asilityandeqmp'iiseof circus-riders, they star d erect upon the
horses and use their spears and clubs. The kangaroo is able
to jump clear over a horse. As the game is bagced it is
Skinned, and pegged down to prevent shrinkage. Ihe flesh
furnishes meat for the camp. Each man places a private
mark up n his booty, and when they have 100 skins apiece
they return back to civilisation. There are 20 varieties of
kangaroos, among them the blue, red wallaby, black, grey,
and fo ester, the latter furnishing the beet leather, as it lives
mainly in wooded sections. When the shipping ports are
reached the hunters dispose of the skins by auction to tne
highest bidders, and realise about 70 cents a pound. K an "
gatoo-hunters make large profits. One man is known to nave
cleared 4500dcl free of living expenses in a single year.
Even the cable liar must sit down when that
enlightened American editor rises to address the
world.
Advertising Cheats l! 1
“ It has become so common to begin an article,
in an elegant, interesting style,
“ Then run it into some advertisement that we
avoid all such, „ . _
“ And simply call attention to the merits of Dr,
Soule's American Hop Bitters in as plain, honest
terms as possible,
“ To induce people
“ To give them one trial, which so proves tneir
value that they will never use anj thing else.
"The Remedy so favourably noticed in all the papers,
Religious and secular, »s
"Having a Urge sale, »nd supplanting all other medicine.
" There is no denying the virtues of the Hop Plants, and
the propriet y of Dr Soules'American Hop Bitters have
shown great shrewdness and anility.
“ Xn compounding a medicine whose virtues are so palpao
to every one’s observation-
Did She Die 9
“ She lingered and suffered along, pining away
all the time for years,”
“ The doctors doing her no good ;
“And at last was cured by this Dr. ..oules
American Hop Bitters the papers say so much
about.”
“ Indeed ! Indeed ! ”
“How thankful we should be for that medi-
cine.”
A Daughter’s Misery.
“ Eleven years onr daughter suffered on a bed
of misery, - ,
“ From a complication of kidney, liver, rheu-
matic trouble, and Nervous debility,
‘ ■ Under the care of the best physicians,
“ Who gave her disease various names,
“ But no relief, , t ...
“ And now she is restored to ns in good health
by as simple a remedy as Dr. Soule s American
Hop Bitters, that we had shunned for years he
fore using it." — The Parents,
Father is Getting Well.
“ My daughter says :
“ How much better father is since he used Dr.
Soule’s America a Hop Bitters.”
“He is getting well after his long suffering
from a disease declared incurable.”
“ And we are so glad that ho used your
Bitters."—A Lady of N.Y. -
£2TNone genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s nam
blown on the bottle Beware of all the vile poi
sc nous stuff made to Imitate the above.
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LICHTNER 3 Rid Co^
52 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
£S- srswaa sfsss; fsssstfwjas
th.irTnlentlon ot «Mm FRE ffi LESSONS in the Seductive Art to all purchasers of a Photographic
The services of a competent operator have been secured and beginners
S,tow Mm S umiTety about possible (alluro. The young are bomb, promoted Mm pro-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair.
Caraeias
By all the best makers from £3 upward, according to size and quality.
Lenses
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
o :■
STa-u-tters
Of every description, including the famed “GUERRY,” the best all round shutter
in the world.
THE YERGARA PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
NOVELTIES BY EVERY MAIL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
LICHTNER & OO
«.»
32 O’CONNELL STREET.
i\r K
W* TON AND LAMB.
VOXXNITURR »nd PIANCHPOK«»
WAREHOUSEMEN,
OABINKTM AKERS, UPHOLBTBRRS3?
AMD
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and 0 CONNELL STRKESS.
Large stock of pianofortes by th
MOST CELEBRATED MAKERS, NEW
TON and LAMB.
B
AGATELLB BOARDS Portable, variou
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-£eet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen.
Spring and O’Connell streets.
STIVE POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS BED
p ROOM SUITES.—The Economic Bedroom
Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washst and with
Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and two
Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
. NEWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable Early English
designs.—WARDROBE, i feet, with silvered
nlate-glass door; WASHBTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel Rail; TOILET TABLE,
with Swing Glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP*
BOARD and Two CANE-SEATED CHAIRS, 16
guineas-
NKWTON and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
d
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB
w,
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s 6d.
DrNING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet,
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS, 6 X 8,
8x0, 9 x 8, 10 x 8, 12 x 8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), flttod
with pulleya and cords, 6 x 8, 6*. Od, ; 8 x 8,
9a, ; 9 x 8, 93. 6d. ; 10 x 8, 10s. 6d. ; 12 x 8, 12®,
6d. ; 12 x 10, los. NEWTON and LAMB, Furni-
ture Warehousemen, Spring and O Connell streets.
E
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ddsfs
£JANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard
and Verandah,
Price very low.
NEWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE WAREHOUSEMEN,
SPRING and O’CGNNELL STREETS.
LAWN and PARK SKATS, 6 feel long.
Rustic Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
/GARDEN SKATS, I9s. Verandah Chair?*
Vj INDI IN LONG-ARM LOUNGES.
NKV TON and LAMB.
RATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from isl-
and large variety of Chairs, from 12s. 6d.
&c.; special designs, extra quality. Newton and
LAMB, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and!
O’Connell streets.
ds
C E C H E ;s T ;S,.
all slzss,
from 27a.
NEWTON and LAMB.
ś
JgIXCKLSIO R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
refrigerators;
Various Sizes, from 455.
—
171 ASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed'
2J rooms, new designs, oovered to order, iir
any material.
BKD8TKADS, all sizes, at! lowest pricer.
NJCWTON and LAMB, Importers, O’Connell'
street,
BEDDING, all desorlptilons at Lowest KaUfc
NEWTON and LAMB, O'Connoll fltreot.
SPRING MATTRK38KS, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
V1CWTON and LAMB.


A TALE OF THE PAST.
(BY ARTHUR GAYLE.)
If one were fool enough to try to walk
from Sydney to Parramatta, and so absolute an
ass as to turn aside from the ancient dirt road,
which owes its origin to the loud and blasphemous
race wto drove the bullock-teams in the early
days of New South Wales, he would probably
come across a few noteworthy monuments of the
early years of this century. There is a dreary
plantation there, for instance, where the somb e
pines grow thick, and any old band will readily
point out a certain spec in one corner on which
once grew a tree which did good service as a gal-
lows in the days of the buried past. It grew
upon Colonel Johnstone s Annandale estate, and
men were hanged there, and women when
men ran short, until at last the old pine whheiei
away under the curte of human blood, and the
place it had occupied was left empty. Nothing
has grown there since. A little lur her on, deep
down amid the thick bush that grows between
the road and the river, is a gruesome spot which
lies in perpetual shadow —a pises where the air la
always damp and cool, and which impresses the
stranger with its aspect of settled melancholy,
and makes him look around for the record of an
old time murder. Persons were very hands
with an axe in those early days— teste Mr. Lynch.
There is no record, however —no men oriri tablet
or cross cut on a tree, or stone with undecipher-
able Inscription, or any of those adjuncts of the
mysterious and horrible, that, in the story-books,
stand in the wayfarer’s path as the finger posts of
crime. But there Is a per don of an old stone
house crumbling away. Only the fragments of
some of the walls are standing—good, substantial
stone walls they were, for convict labour was
cheap to those who could command id, and they
built strongly in the early days. Great gnarled
trees grow all about, and thick underbrush clothes
the site of the foundations of which you can see
the stony outcrop here and there. All around is
solitude. The very crows that croak and flap
their wings in the bony branches overhead seem
to croak in your ears an old-time tale of horror
and crime. But you might listen to the crows a
long while, and gaze at the abomination of deso-
lation before you for many a weary hour until the
gloom of it entered into your very soul before
they told you their ghastly story as plainly as it
was told to me.
* * *
Many sunny days have come and gone
since Lieutenant Smith arrived in Sydney in the
beginning of the century, and received as a grant
the piece of land on which we now stand. He
■was the younger son of an Exeter doctor—a
gambler and a roue, who had spent his money,
disgraced his relatives, made a failure of his life
while he was still a young man, and then bought
a commission—or hid it bought for him—in the
New South Waits Corps. Of this gallant detach-
ment of British soldiers I will say nothing, the
Indelible dif grace of their career is a matter of
history. But Lieutenant Smith was worthy of
his company, and that is high praise, in a certain
direction. He toox change of a detachment of
tbs corps last recruited in England from the
hulks, which embarked as of a convict
woman's-ship at Portsmouth for Botany Bay.
♦ • •
I am not going t) describe the scene on
board that ship. God forbid that anyone should
strive to revive to the full its unspeakable
miseries 1 The women on board were of all
classes. There was the harridan, hardened in the
vice that was second natore to her, and totterirg
on the brink of the grave. There was the pro-
curess, thrown over at the last by her wealthy
patrons, and left to the short shrift of the law.
There was the lady’s-maid who had borrowed her
fine mistress’s laces, and who had a hell of lite-locg
misery in prospect as the cost of one Sunday's
finery ; the mined street-walker, who had walked
the broad way of Pall Mall or the Strand that, for
such as she, leads to damnation, and walked it
once too of .en ; tlere were the little girl-pick-
pockets and shoplifters, whom the hangman had
spared for a worce fate; and the country girl,
who was sacrificed to the cruelty of some
young squire or his gamekeeper. .All herded to-
gether—the good with the bad, the young with
the old, vice with innocence, and rural simplicity
with the cunning and crime of the great cities,
and the good ship went from her moorings, laden
with curses and weighted deep with her sorrow
and sin.
# * *
But the curses and the hideous aggrega-
tion of misery did not sink her, and she re lied
slowly over the waters ind left her track of
corpses behind her as a hundred other floating
tombs had done before. The officers, soldiers and
crew held high carnival, and the lieutenant was
in his element. Like the others, he had the privi-
lege of selection among the female convicts, and
his choice fell on the body and soul of a little
peasant girl. She was the daughter cf a farmer,
and bad been a servant in the house of a Suffolk
squire till, in an evil hour, she attracted the
honest admiration of the ton of a neighbouring
gentleman, who was expected to marry a daughter
of the house. Then the girl was “removed” out
of the way. With cold, fiendish malignity her
mistre s fastened upon her an accusation of thef ',
and the ch'ld-woman, who threatened to be an
obstacle to her mistress's schemes, was sent out to
do a long term at Botany Bay. But she had
brought with her her old-fashioned ideas of
honour and purity, and she rejec ed the li’u-
tenant’s advances in an agony of terror and
loathing. Then she was broken in to her sur-
roundings in the usual fashion of these good old
days. The lieutenant stood by and watched her
as her while,shoulders were torn and cat by the
cat, and amid her screams and piteous entreaties,
thirty lashes were Inflicted. She died under the
punishment, and her remains were thrown over-
board, as the quickest means of getting rid of a
creature who was disobedient and mutinous when
living, and who was only an unpleasant memory
when dead. .
• • •
Her successor in the lieutenant’s affec-
tions was a painted Jezebel from London—a lady
of a strangely different stamp from the girl whose
baby face and long dark hair were rising and fall-
ing cn the distant waves, and whose tortured
body had gone to perpetual rest. She had got
into trouble on a charge of murder. A young
man who had come up from the country and had
then mysteriously disappeared, was- awkwardly
enough—found dying In her house, and there
were circumstances about his death which made
her escape from the hangman a very narrow one.
But she was not born for the rope and the noose,
and soon she be ante a painted and bedizened
queen reigning over a floating pandemonium, and
under her sway the lash was kept ever at work,
and the tiall of corpses behind the slowly-moving
ship became daily more conspicuous.
It was a long passage, and for the lieutenant
and his paramour a merry one. But at last it
came to an end, and then a gang of assigned con-
victs built for their master a house between the
road and the river—the same whose ruins, crumb-
lirg and overgrown with weeds, can still be
traced, though the bush has spread over the con-
vict Arcadia, where the Jezebel of the convict -
ship once reigned supreme. There were wild,
weird orgies in that lonely mansion in these by-
gone times, and the convicts in their huts could
hear the roar of blasphemy from the rooms where
their master caroused with his guests, and whera
fiends Incarnate sang and danced, and cursed and
drank, and told stories of the horrors they had
seen, until the good citizens of Sodom and
Gomorrah would have fled from them in affright.
Round the house the air was thick with blood and
hideous atrocities, and the smoke of these ini-
quities reeked up In the face of God’s sky, and
bio* ted out all hope of mercy, either here or here-
after, in the souls of the crouching wretches
whom the law had abandoned in this seventh hell
of iniquity and torture.
» • *
Yet there was luxury within to compen-
sate for ihe squalid horrors without. Among the
effects of a wealthy colonist, who recently quitted
Australia for England, was a wide, deep bath
of polished marble, and two names scratched upon
it with a diamond revealed its original ownership
and showed that Jezebel was, in some sense, a
woman of taste and refinement in her day. Every
morning this ba*h was filed with milk, and in it
she used to lave herself after the fashion of the
sensnons queens of the East, in order to preserve
her beauty, and keep her silky skin white and un-
wrinkled. She appreciated the value of exercise,
too, and when she grew languorous amid her
luxurious surroundings and pined for excitement,
she would order a number of convicts, both mala
and female, to be brought out, and would flog
them until she was weary of the labour. Her
assis'ants in this amusement were the lieutenant
and his overseer—a convict thief who had been
this lady’s friend in the old days in London, and
whose nickname of Barabbas was a standing in-
sult to the Hebrew robber for whose release the
Jews clamoured on the day of the Passover -and
the trio enjoyed themselves gaily until the end
came, and then they enjoyed themselves no more.
* • *
There were plots and schemes innumerable
among the convicts, bub there was always some
one among them who vould betray them in the
hope of gaining the favour of the convict queen
who ruled the little settlement, and then it would
seem for a while as if a thousand fiends were let
loose in all their aggregate malignity. But mean-
while the orgies were growing louder and wilder
and more frequent, and after each debauch it
generally happened that the lieutenant and his
lady were incapacitated for a time, and even the
latter-day Barabbas would be heavy and somno-
lent. And so time went on until a day came
when the chatelaine gob daintily into her marble
bath for the last time, and the lieutenant enjoyed
his last carouse in his mansion by the river, and
Barabbas drowned his heavy, sodden brain in the
fiery rum which he would never taste any more.
When such of the guests as were sufficiently
sober had departed, a band of frenzied men rushed
the house, and the lady and her lord were seized
together in their bedroom. Then Barabbas awoke
from a heavy drunken slumber beneath the dining-
room table to find himself a prisoner, and there
was another orgie, at which the convicts drank
toasts to the eternal misery of their old tyrants
and revelled amid the fragments of the feast,
while their prisoners waited and died a hundred
deaths in appalling anticipation of their fate.
# » •
There was a weird carnival amid the lofty
pine-trees that night. The civilisation which
the white man brought to the great lone
continent for the moral and spiritual elevation of
his dark-skinned brother, had broken loose from
its conventional restrictions, and as the native
heard in the distant bush the shrieks and howls
that were borne upon the midnight breeze, he
fancied that the hell, which the pale-faced
invaders had told him of, had assumed a concrete
form on earth. The three prisoners were tied
each to a tree-trunk, and the convicts took turns
in flogging them, and danced round them, echoing
back their shrieks and curses ; the house was seb
on fire, and a gang of fiends, who had once been
men, whirled round and round in the flamelight,
and whooped, and screamed, and sang wild scraps
of hoarse melody, till at last morning dawned and
they prepared for flight. Then the lieutenant
was hanged from the limb of a tree which cast its
shadow over his door ; his paramour, insensible
and apparently dying, was bound fast to the trunk
below him ; and Barabbas was dragged away with
his captors as they started their retreat into the
almost unknown wilderness which stretched away
in‘o the west.
* * *
The soldiers, however, were close upon
their track, and after a short resistance, in which
the convicts fought with the fury of despair, they
were captured and brought back. Men and
women were hanged together round the smoulder-
ing ruins of their master’s heme, and, as usual,
civilisation triumphed, and the cause of law and
order was duly vindicated. But the rescue party
came too late to save Barabbas. All that was
found of him was a charred cinder which still re-
tained some semblance of human shape, lying
among the ashes of a camp fire, while some frag-
ments of wrapping showed that he had been sewn
in a bollock-hide, and then slowly roasted to
ashes. The leader in this final horror was a
woman whose daughter—also a convict—had been
flogged and ruined by the lieutenant's deputy
in the days when that personage used to enjoy
his simple, primitive existence in the mansion
among the clustering pines ; in the spirit of the
pagans of old she had offered up her daughter’s
murderer to appease the troubled soul of the dead
—but, then, civilisation had not taught her any
better.
•• • •
The lieutenant himself escaped. By some
chance he had left the house along with a number
of his guests, and, in the darkness, the drunken
convicts had sacrificed a roistering individual of
the same pattern, who had stayed behind to bask
in Jezebel’s smiles. Bub the tyrant was terror-
stricken, and, resolving to take no more risks, he
fled to England, where he figured as a reformed
character with considerable effect. As for Jezabel
herself, she recovered, and, for 20 years after, a
crippled beggar, beaten almost out of human
shape, might have been seen crawling about the
streets of Sydney, the wreck of the dainty lady
who once dreamed away a luxurious existence
among the groves by the Parramatta River. She
died at last, but where and when and ho v no one
ever oared to know, and, somewhere or other, she
found a grave. Her history was written chiefly
among the records of the “ drunks ” in the police-
courts, and her latter days were comparatively
harmless.
♦
Dean O’Hea (R C.), of Melbourne, was
travelling by the rail the other day from Mel
bourne to Sandhurst and got into conversation
with a genial Protestant gentleman, who offered
him his aromatic flask and then made some in-
quiries into the Dean's doctrine of future punish-
ment. Charles Adolphus explained the dogma of
Purgatory and the nature of indulgences, but the
genial gentleman of the pocket-pistol declared
that he couldn’t assent to the theory of a middle
state, whereupon the sturdy Dean had this parting
shot at him as he got out at Kyneton to have a
mutton chop: “ Well, my dear sir, if you don’t
believe in Purgatory you may go to Hell!” The
genial gentleman began to think there was some-
thing in this, and pub the flask thoughtfully to his
lips and found there was something in that, too.
“PRIVILEGED” REMARKS.
North Queensland Judge (to
prisoner); ‘ Before I pro-
nounce sentence upon you,
allow me to remark that,
of all the Villains that
it has been my delight
to send to the gallows
since I have sat upon this
Bench, you are the most
deeply-dyed. There’s
burglary in the gleam of
your eye ; there’s mur-
der in every gesture of
your brutal hands;
there’s perjury in every
twitch of those gross
lips ; there’s ”
Prisoner: “Come outside
and say it! ’
tLp%
BRIEF MENTION.
They now call it “Our Old no blllett-ee.”
P.M.G.—Publican, Market and George
streets.
Money Miller is dead, but the family will
go on milling.
Phrase never seen in an Australian news-
paper : “ A few well-chosen words."
Mud J. Haynes promises to save N.S.W.
by starting aj am factory. Orangeade.
The B shop of Adelaide has been sun-
struck. This, however, does not irdpair his effi-
ciency as a Bishop.
Ballarat Evening News call Sydney
‘'Sodom.” Well, if that’s so, Ballarat doesn’t
make a bad Gonlorrah.
Henry Giver, of Bealiba (Yic.), has baen
fined 20s for drunkenness and d sorder. The Lord
loveth a cheerful given
A N.Z. weekly has an article on ‘‘The
Uses of Snakes.” The reptiles have done niuch
good in the temperance cause.
“ Coming over with the Conqueror ,s
doesn’t mean mnoh in Australia. There was A
convict ship named the Conqueror.
A Melbourne youth has had his ear split
by being struck with an elevator. This might be
technically termed a lift on the ear.
Daniel Swan attempted to shoot his wife
in a Melbourne suburb last week. He will stand
his trial for an infringement of the game-laws.
The Sydney Evening News speaks of “a
hard-working but [poor man.” A distinct non
sequitur, Alfred, (inly those who work hard are
poor.
A rent in the ground a quarter of a mile
long and 18 feet deep is the result of an earth-
quake at Wolumbi. This is nothing to the ground-
rents in Sydney.
A Sydney daily, in reporting the annual
meeting of the Local Option League, says “ The
new president took the chair and the choir sang
“ Save the Drunkard.”
In Roma (Q ) three snakes have been
killed in the high street, and citizens are warned
that it is dangerous to get drunk in the gutters
during the summer months.
“In appearance he was something like
portraits of Victor Hugo,” kindly observes the
Auckland Herald of ,a man who came up among
the drunks for the 24th time. \
An old woman of 60 was sent to gaol last
week for two months for begging by a Sydney
beak. We know an old beggarman that that
beak dare not lay a wet finger on.
A friend who came out with the Duke of
Buckingham died in Melbourne, and was returned
to England in brandy. Buckingham himself
does not return in such good spirits.
The other day an eagle with an extension
of seven feet attacked the poultry of a Ballarat
hash depob. “ The eagle was speedily disabled,”
says the local Star. Shouldn’t wonder.
At Sydney Central the other day one
Teresa Stowe was fined 20s for assaulting Julius
Cte?ar. And yet the men who killed Julius were
disct urged without a stain on their characters !
This formula is stereotyped in every Aus-
tralian daily newspaper office : “Dr. was
called in to view the body. Cicse to the bed was
asmall box which had contained ‘ Rough on Rats. ’’
A London bine-ribbon parson told Salis-
bury that he “ could hardly ever find a teetotaller
living In a slum with his family in one roam.” Of
course nob. It’s enough to drive any man to
drink.
A Melbourne man, charged with damag-
ing a ladder and a dray, proved that he had a
right to do so, as orlgina’ly he helped prosecutor
to steal the articles. Prosecutor is now sorry he
spoke.
A Wilcannia (N.S.W ) alderman has just
been “ sent up " for four months for thumping his
wife. He probably mistook her for the Mayor
dnriog the course of a warm debate on the sewage
question.
According to an old superstition of the
Media;val Church, whenever a cock crows a lie is
being told. The reason that cocks crow so per-
sistently in the early morning hours is because
the morning papers are being set up.
A Welsh repoiter writes about the awful
fate of a man named Jenkins The murderer
was evidently in quest of money, bub luckily Mr.
Jenkins had deposited all his funds in the bank
the day before, so that he lest nothing but his
life."
A South Australian contemporary says
“ the cuddling month has made its appearance at
last." “ Codlin moth” was, of course, intended,
but, as this happens to be leap-year, the intelli-
gent comp, gob a deal cloier to the eternal truth
than usual.
An enormous land-tortoise has been found
rear Lake Wendouree at Ballarat. The local
Tramway Company have secured Its services, and
by running two trips where erstwhile they have
only run one, they hope to recoup themselves for
their outlay.
A Wanganui (N.Z.) hotelkeeper writes his
own bills of fare to save the expense of having
them printed. A recent one announced :—“ Coffy,
soupe, roste beef, fryed am, boyled and bakt
potatos, fried ooul pud din and minspy." An
apotheosis of phonetics!
We have it on the authority of the S.M.
Herald that “for fully fifteen years H.R.H.
Albert Edward has never done anything which
has offended in the slightest degree even a section
of the public.” From this we hurriedly come to
the conclusion that the British public is badly in
want of a missionary.
Pasteur’s nephew is coming to Sydney, per
Cuzco, to look after the rabbits.
The Sydney Corporation motto is “ I take
but I surrender." The priv ate motto of most of
the aldermen, however, is “ No surrender."
The Bulletin entreats the N.S.W. Free”
trade party not to say any more that, as they
thought it was all right at Newtown, they didn't go
to the poll. That ccck won’t fight at Saturday’s
election
The prize offered for a cantata for the
opening of the Victorian Exhibition brought in
250 poems, alleged poems, and screeds, and the”
committee waded right through them at one*
Bitting, at the rate of about a pome a minute.
