

The Bulletin
V01.9-N0.447.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 95, 1888.
Price, 6d,
ds
Ik
fs
A Storm Brewing.
WHALE (to Yankee Skipper): "IF YOU WANT FINE WEATHER YOU’LL HAVE TO CHUCK AH JONAH OVERBOARD. TAKE CARE OF HIM."


The Bulletin
ms National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i BULLETIN NEWSPAPER C 0 .5
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STRKBT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum • ®
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ' 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with it«-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
« The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
: 1 -/ —-
Bcnuett and Olliers v. “ ISnllclin."
Referring to the action brought by the pro.
prietors of the Evening News against The Bul-
letin, in respect of an article entitled “ The
Secret Source of Crime,” which appeared in this
journal on April 29th last, the proprietors of The
Bulletin desire to express their regret for the
publication of the article complained of.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 25, 1888.
Down Among the Coals.
If the long-pending conflict between miners
and mine-owners could have been settled by
the hard words of outside belligerents the
miners would some weeks ago have ex-
changed the gloomy regions in which they
spend their working time for a far more
darksome destination in which they would
pass a doleful eternity. For all the old gen-
tlemen who lay down the law in steamer-
cabins and railway-carriages and luncheon-
cars and club-smoking-rooms have been
busily ventilating plans for bringing them to
signal grief, and all the young fellows who
put on “side”and keep up style on a hundred
a year have been enviously abusive of
the workmen who contrive to knock
out twice as much and still have
claims which are unsatisfied. Such
schemes “for bringing out thousands of
first-rate miners within five weeks, sir ! Men,
by Jove, who would jump at the money
these chaps earn ; ” such asseverations that
“By Jupiter, sir! Capital has made up its
mind now, and these fellows will see who is
master ; ” such threats that “ a little starva-
tion will soon bring them round ; ” and such
assurances that “they had now done for
themselves, and would find that trades-
unionism was played out ” as have been
thunderously vented in all places of public
resort were probably never before heard of
outside Bedlam, Everybody has been quite
sure that the last limit of the mineowners’
patience has been reached, and all the
speakers have agreed that the settlement of the
question depended entirely upon the firmness
of the wage-payers. The wage-earners were
the naughty little boys who always will ask
for more, and the wage-payers were the
people who had given in too often, but
would do so never more. The daily
press has differed somewhat from the
speechifying fraternity in its method
of attack, although it has been in the
main on the same side. It h&s painted
in sombre colours the woes of share-
holders who get small dividends, the losses
of storekeepers when customers cannot pay,
the danger of diverting the trade from one
mining centre to another, and above all and
beyond all the deplorable effects which must
continually result from what heavy writers
never fail to call “ the struggle between
capital and labour.”
It would be a great blessing if this firing
of blank cartridge could be given up for
good and all, and if the people who have so
many brilliant plans for “ bringing working
miners to their senses ” would remember
that their being influenced by such threats
and exhortations as these would show that
they had no senses of any kind. No steady,
clever, prosperous miners already fully em-
ployed in England would come out here ex-
cepting upon such terms as would render
their labour quite as dear as that it was in-
tended to replace. No union among capi-
talists could turn inexperienced labourers
into competent miners, and no resolution
“ to let the men see who was master ” would
hold out for five minutes after the first rise
in the price of coal made it profitable to
yield to the men’s terms. Nor are the mis-
fortunes of shareholders factors in the calcu-
lation upon which a settlement must depend.
In many cases those shareholders have only
themselves to thank for their position. They
have voluntarily thrown away enormous
sums upon speculators, promoters, land-
jobbers, and Department-trotters, and they
must put up with the consequence s. Indeed,
they are not entitled to the public sympathy
they solicit. In most cases they have con-
sciously aided and abetted the wire-pullers
in whose favour corrupt Ministries have
alienated the mineral resourcesof N.S. Wales,
and they stand before the entire commuoity
as willing receivers of public property im-
properly acquired. The transfer of trade
from one mining centre to another will
hurt them more than it will injure
the miners. The miner can follow his
work. The mine must remain where it
is. To the coal-miners as a community it
would matter very little if they were com-
pelled to transfer their labour to other coal-
fields, and it would be quite possible for
them to enter upon other forms of mining
industry. A coalminer would gat on far
better in a gold-mine or a silver-mine than
a mine-owner of any degree would with his
mine idle on his hands. When the smoke
of the blank cartridges has blown away it
will be seen that in this as in many other
struggles between wage-payer and wage-
earner the workmen’s position is the stronger
of the two and that threats of retaliation are
vain and idle.
* * *
One fact of importance has come into
singular prominence during the preliminary
negotiations, and that is the permanent loss
entailed upon mine-owners who insist upon
fighting their men instead of agreeing with
them. The summer of 1885-6 was made
particularly lively by the strife between the
Lambton miners and the owners. What
was the result ? An almost entire loss of the
Lambton-mine Company’s customers, and a
consequent diminution of their output and
their returns! Mr. Croudace and his
friends used to dilate with unction upon the
large earnings of certain miners employed
by them, and to boast that no workmen in
the world earned so much money as
theirs. Now the earnings of their
men have dropped to an average of
30j. per week, not because the scale of pay-
ment is less, but because there is no longer
the same demand for their coal. Their
workmen are only employed for a portion
of their time, and the natural result is that
they have found work elsewhere. The total
output of coal is greater than ever ; the total
amount paid in wages is greater than ever ;
and so is the total number of men employed.
Therefore, the triumph of the Croudace
party, no very great matter in the beginning,
has turned out to be a defeat in the end,
and they would have been richer
to-day had they yielded to the miners’
demands and set themselves to work
by economical and energetic manage-
ment to decrease their working expenses,
and increase their total returns. They
carried coercion as far as it would go, and
succeeded in reducing the claims of their
workmen. But while they were engaged in
the operation their business rivals ran away
with their trade, and they had but an empty
victory to crow over. This is the inevitable
result of all such struggles. Step by step
the workmen come to the front, and insist
upon being consulted when wages are fixed.
They may not be able to make their imme-
diate demands good as against their first an-
tagonists, but they have the option of draw-
ing off their forces and, engaging under other
leaders and other conditions, leaving their
first opponents high and dry amid the worth-
less trophies of a barren success. No union
of capitalists can prevent this result, because
no such union can ever cover the whole
ground. If one Capitalist will not give
Labour its terms, another will, provided he
can see a profit in the transaction, and if a
union of Capitalists proves strong enough to
starve out the labour of a whole district that
union infallibly drives away the trade as well
as the labour,
• • *
Probably the present disagreement will be
settled by some form of mediation. It is
dei outly to be hoped that this will be the
case, and that the end will come quickly.
But it can never come if mediation is to be
based upon the assumption that miners are
not within their rights in doing all they can
to fix the rates of labour and to insist upon
full payment for all the real work they do,
whether that work is directly profitable to
the mine-owner or not. If the conditions
under which coal is extracted in any particu-
lar mine vary adversely from those under
which it is obtained elsewhere the mine-
owner must put up with the consequences.
The miner has nothing to do with them.
He has a right to be paid for every
stroke of his pick, and in the long
run this claim will have to be allowed.
He is not a partner in the mine to which he
sells his labour. He is an independent
party to a bargain. The time was, and not
long ago, when only a few theorists acknow-
ledged this truth. The time is when every
man who is not fettered by the feudal idea
that the employer is lord of the employed
realises it to the fullest extent. The sooner
the remainder open their eyes to the facts
the better it will be for them. For the
future in mining, as in all other branches of
human industry, the price of the necessary
labour will be the very first factor in every
enterprise, and this price can only I>9
fixed with the consent of the per-
sons who are to furnish it. It may
be possible to arrive at some sort of a
standard which shall fix the price for a de-
finite season. It would be quite impossible
to arrive at a standard which will fix it for
ever. A landowner would laugh to scorn
any one who tried to fix a standard price at
which he should lease his land or let his
houses. He takes every possible advantage
of the state of the local market and of the
demand for his property. He would sue
any miner for libel and get heavy damages
if he were called unprincipled for doubling
to-day the rent he gladly accepted five years
ago. He will have to allow the same liberty
he claims and must be contented to
see those who sell work to him
revise their scale from time to time
as he revises his own. If the miner
in New South Wales can earn more money
here than in any other part of the world,
why, so much the better for him. The same
may be said of the mine-owner. Where else
in the world can a speculator annex a coal-
mine for nothing, as he does here, work it
with other people’s money by means of a
company, and keep the greater part of it for
himself into the bargain ? These are the
considerations the mediators must keep in
mind if they wish their interference to be
successful, and these are the conclusions to
which mineowners must needs come in the
end.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
General Gooth and Modern Christianity.
General Booth may be only the managing
director of a religious Insurance Society, but he
occasionally hits well home in the interests of
humanity, and throws a clear ray of common
sense on the dark anomalies of modern social life.
It is the fashion for the well-dressed soi-disant
Christian who wears a top-hat and rents a pew in
a varnished conventicle to sneer at the red-shirted
“ Harmy ” as not being sufficiently “respectable,”
but if he took the trouble to think, that same
well-dressed pietist would admit that the early
disciples occupied about the same place in popular
estimation in ancient Judea as the Salvation
“Kapting” in the modern world. We are
not alarmingly pious ourselves, but if we ever
diverged from the broad path that leads to
Parliament, we should hardly know which to
choose, the “ Harmy ” or the Mormons. In ex-
tenuation of such c egenerate sentiments we quote
the following, delivered by General Booth in the
course of an address in the Newcastle Town Hall,
England:—
“ The topic of these two days has been the Christianity
of Christ— the only Christianity, as I remarked yester-
day, that is worth having in this life, the only Chris-
tianity that we sha'l care about when we come to die,
and the only Christianity that will stand us in any stead
when we take our place before the Judgment Bar. . . .
It, therefore, behoves us all to ask, ‘ Have I this Chris-
tianity V I find that man is very apt to lose himself in
the crowd -to sink his individuality. This is an age of
association ; everything is done now in companies. If
you want to poison a people with strong drink, the
fashionable plan is to have it done by a company, and
then saints and sinners rush to have shares in it. I heard
of a great saint the other day-—a saint who cries in a
religious meeting must be a great saint—rushing
to get some shares in the great Guinness’ money-
making company. He would not like to have set up as a
publican and to have had bis name over a board on which
was inscribed, ‘ Licensed to kill,’ although there was some
chance of his getting compensation and getting out of the
killing business when he got it. By-tb e-bye, these
murderers of bodies and souls will get compensation. God
Almighty will compensate them, and it will be a very
different sort of compensation to what the British Govern-
ment is just now laying down plans for giving. This
sainted friend of mine was not ashamed to do this in a
quiet way, because you know with a great many people it
is not sin if it is not found out. Being found out makes
the sin, and here again, paradoxical as it may appear,
nothing is so certain in God Is universe as that your sin
will find you out ; and yet people are such fools as to
think that they can deceive God Almighty, You cannot
get the best side—the blind side, as you call it—of the
Almighty God. His eyes are all round. He is full of
eyes, and can see every way and everywhere. I was remark-
ing that everything is done in companies now, and in this
company business we are apt to forget the individual.
Look to yourself now ; save yourself! As I said this
morning, if you want to be saved you will have to save
yourself. You can’t get saved by a company, by a
church, a parson—however good he may be—nor by
deacons, nor church-membership, you will have to save
yourself. Therefore, it will require a little attention, my
brother. Business, you say, requires great attention,
or else it goes to the bad. Your soul’s business,
my brother, my sister? You have neglected it
for a very long time. Turn your attention in this direc-
tion. You may drop down dead this very night. You
may be carried home on a stretcher, the cab will pull up
at your house, and your wife will go into hysterics when
she sees the lifeless corpse. Have you considered these
things ? That is what I want you to do to-night.”
♦
A Creature of His Time.
Another of the few remaining: human links which
directly bind Australia to the old days of darkness
has just been severed by the death of Sir William
Westbrook Burton, Knight Bachelor, who, it is
cabled, has died in England—at the age of 93.
Judge Burton was a Northampton man, and
entered the British Navy when 13. While serv-
ing his King at sea he studied for the Bar, and in
1824 was “called.” He practised for a few years
in English counties, and in 1829 was appointed a
Judge at the Cape of Good Hope. In 1834 he
came to New South Wales with an appointment
as a puisne Judge of the Supreme Court. Here
he remained till 1844 when he went to the
High Court at Madras at a large salary.
He remained in Madras till ’57, when he
resigned on pension, and returned to New
South Wales, and, entering the Legislative
Council, became its president, holding office
from 58 to ’Ol, when he finally retired,
and went to England to end his days.
There were some tough men in the olden
times of Australia. Bishop Ullathorne, for in-
stance, is not yet dead. Fifty-four years ago
Judge Burton went to Norfolk Island as a special
commission to try prisoners who had taken part
in an insurrection, and of these he condemned to
death no less than 31, of whom 13 were banged in
one day in the grim old convict fastness. At the
trial, one of the prisoners, before being sentenced to
die, exclaimed to Judge Burton : “Whatever a man
be when he comes here, they pluck from his breast
his Man’s heart and give him the heart of a
Beast! ” When the priest arrived at Nor-
folk Island six months after the trial to
shrive the condemned, the 31 under sentence of
execution were called out by the commandant,
who named the 13 finally-doomed men, and told
them that they were to be allowed five days to
make their peace with God —“and then,” says
Ullathorne, “they went down on their knees
and thanked Heaven that they were to be allowed
to leave that awful place. It was the most hor-
rible sight I have ever witnessed. Rev, Mr.
M‘Encßoe attended 74 executions in four years,
and on the scaffold, or on the way to the scaffold,
the condemned, as a rule, thanked God that
they were leaving Norfolk Island.” Of such a
system was Judge Sir William Westbrook
Burton, the outcome of the conditions of his
time, one of the instruments. He is dead, and
nearly all of his colleagues and subordinates
are dead. But the seed sown in their hideous
epoch blossoms and bears fruit in the criminal
laws of Australia, and, to the shame of the citizens,
it lives also in the administration of those laws—
at least in New South Wales. “The evil that
men do lives after them.” Had no Judge Burtons
ever lived —had there never been a convict system
in New South Wales nor a flogging-post on Norfolk
Island —then brutal laws would never have been
brutally administered under the eyes of a popula-
tion too ignorant and apathetic to even wish that
the local judicial system were assimilated to the
systems obtaining in the centres of the world’s
civilisation.
From Hart to “ Worser.”
Jockey Wood’s action against the Licensed Vic-
tuallers’ Gazette was the means of bringing
more ridicule upon that grand old institution, the
British Peerage. In the course of proceedings
counsel read a letter from the Duke of Portland
to his friend the Earl of Durham, which same
letter has smashed up our last fragment of respect
for dooks. Here is an extract: —
“ Jockeys, no doubt, are thieves, but, in iny
opinion, gentlemen who aid and abet them, and make
money through their misdeeds, are a great deal worser."
There was a burst of laughter over “worser,” but
it doesn’t appear that the learned Judge took the
miserable grammatical error (very different to a
mere slip of the tongue) as the text for an improv-
ing sermon on hereditary government. This young
peer has received such a scholastic and social
education as would thoroughly “ ground ” any
man of ordinary intelligence in the rudiments of
his native language. He hears the choicest Eng-
lish from the lips of those clevah fellows and
clevah women, who are always laid on at the
aristocratic tables where dukes—especially un-
married dukes—eat and drink. If you dragged
an innocent loafer from the gutter, and put him
in the place of His Grace of Portland for i 2
months, at the end of that time he wouldn’t write
“worser” —not even to another peer, who knew
no better himself. We may take it for granted
that the Karl of Durham knew no better or he
would not have brought forward Portland’s his-
torical scrawl to be laughed at in a public court.
We can picture this brilliant pair of nobles
vaguely wondering what the dooce those
demmed idiots saw to laugh at in one
gentleman’s letter to another, hang it all. And,
still wondering, they drove off to the House of
Peers, perhaps, in order to vote against some Bill
or other, about which they knew nothing (nor
could be taught to know anything) except that it
had something to do with the people, doncherknow
—confound ’em. To fully understand the moral
of Portland’s “worser” we must conceive the
possibility of a working man’s member of the
House of Commons using that word in debate.
The Tory daily papers would come out with
crushing articles, predicting England’s speedy
downfall if men of this stamp had a voice
in the management of affairs. The Arch-
bishop of Canterbury would shake his head
with horrible meaning when next he prayed
for her Majesty’s High Court of Parliament at
this time assembled. Punch would publish a car-
toon, representing Pitt and Fox as weeping for
their degenerate successor, the working man’s can-
didate. All these things would be done if a free
elected legislator, who had picked up what educa-
tion came in his humble way, were to make the
ridiculous grammatical error made by this high-
bred ignoramus. And they talk of reforming the
House of Lords so that the Duke of Portland,
and dozens like him, may keep their seats for a
few years longer in unmolested stupidity !
♦
The mental horizon of Editor CuenOW of the
S.M. Herald, is extending. He asks in a recent
leading article: “Is it certain that if the fran-
chise were confined to professional men, graduates,
and landed proprietors, we should eliminate all
the larrikins, the confirmed drunkards, and the
recently released prisoners?” There is the re-
cognition of a solid fact implied in this question.
People who dislike manhood suffrage think they
stab the theory to the heart when they point to a
drunken artisan or other workingman and state
how absurd it is for such a person to possess the
right to vote. The point they want to impress is
that if the drunkard, the larrikin, and the gaol-
bird, were disfranchised, the working-class vote
would be so reduced that legislation would be
more in favour of settled institutions. But, as
Editor Cuenow intimates, if drunkenness, larrikin-
ism, and convictism be made disqualifications the
professional, the learned, and the landed pro-
prietary classes must, as well as the working-class,
lose percentages of votes, and thus the all-round
elimination would leave the relative voting power
of the several classes where it is. This is a social
and political truth. But how long is Mr. Ournow
going to stay as editor of the Herald ?
*
When a New South Wales young man of low
degree commits an indecent assault he is almost
invariably tied up and flogged. The other day, at
Balmain, Sydney, a young man of rather high
degree indecently assaulted a little girl and —was
lashed? Oh, dear no. After pleading guilty
he was, “on -account of his previous good
character! ” discharged on his own recognisances
to appear for sentence when called upon.
When a young man is given a “ previous good
character,” as a rule it means that he wears
a well-cut coat, and that he has never been in gaol,
or that he has a rich father, or an uncle who is a
bank-director or a member of Parliament, or that
a few compassionate clergymen attend court and
speak for him. The Bulletin has always con-
tended that the flogging law is an undemocratic


law, that the lash is an instrument intended only
for the back of the workman and never for that
of the “gentleman.” Here is a case in point—
here is yet another instance tending to show that
no little heap of broadcloth “ duds” is ever seen
alongside a set of British triangles. Not, how-
ever, that we would wish in the earnestness of our
desire for the administration of even-handed jus-
tice, to see this licentious young man of “ pre-
viously good character ” flogged into wild beast-
hood —though that brutal and illogical institution,
the lash, would soon be abolished were the backs
of a few nobly-born youths from Potts or Darling
Point scored by the hangman’s hand. The
Bulletin’s argument in this matter is in nowise
affected by the circumstance that the Minister of
Justice, having had his attention called to the
remarkable clemency extended to the “ well-con-
nected ” young man, has had him formally called
up for sentence.
* -x- *
The argument used in Australia by “Good
Society ” aeainst the man who advocates the abo-
lition of the brutal British lash invariably is,
“ Oh ! mere maudlin sympathy with crime.” Yet
the late Charles Dickens once wrote :
“ I strongly question the expediency of advocating the
revival of whipping for crime. It is a natural and
generous impulse to hs indignant at the perpetration of
inconceivable brutality, but I doubt the whipping panacea
gravely. Not in the least regard of pity for the
criminal, whom I hold in far lower estima-
tion than a mad wolf, but in consideration for
the general tone and feeling, which is very
much improved since the flogging times. It is bad
for a people to be familiarised with such punishments.
When the whip went out of Bridewell, and ceased to be
flourished at the cart’s tail and at the whipping-posts, it
began to fade out of madhouses, and schools, and
families, and to give place to a better system everywhere,
than cruel driving. It would be hasty, because a few
brutes may be inadequately punished, to revive, in any
respect, what, in so many aspects, society is yet happily
rid of. The whip is a very contagious kind of thing, and
difficult to confine within one set of bounds. Utterly
abolish punishment by fine—a barbarous device quite as
much out of date as wager by battle, but particularly
connected in the vulgar mind with this class of offence—
at least quadruple the term of imprisonment for
aggravated assaults—and, above all, let us, In such c ses,
have no pet prisoning, vain glorifying, strong soup, and
coasted meats, but hard work and one unchanging and
'uncompromising dietary of bread and water, well or ill;
I and we shall do much better than by going down into the
/ d irk to grope for the whip among the rusty fragments of
the rack, and the branding-iron, and the chains and gibbet
from the public roads, and the weights that pressed men to
death in the cells of Newgate.”
After duly excising Mr. 0. Dickens’ tommyroti-
tudinously sentimental stuff as to its not matter-
ing about the criminal, it will bs well for the
community to take to heart the solid argument
about the degradation inflicted by flogging upon
the people at large.
Mu. Melton Prior, of the Illustrated London
News, has come a fearful cropper in connection
with that ghastly caricature of a picture called
the “Shadow of Death,” or the “Shadow of the
Cross.” Wrote Mr. Prior to the Argus : “Pass-
ing through the Art Galleiy at the Centennial
Exhibition this morning I was astonished to see
the magnificent picture of ‘The Shadow of the
Cross,’ by Mr. Holman Hunt. On approaching,
however, I discovered it was but a very poor and
weak copy. ” The superintendent of the collection
wrote to explain that “ the picture now being ex-
hibited is the original one painted in Jerusalem
1870-73 and from which the larger one and the en-
graving were made. ” So much for high art criticism!
Mr. Prior was looking at the “great ” work, the
“ inspired ” conception full of real J erusalem light,
and so forth, but not being properly informed on
the point his educated eye missed the magnificence
it would otherwise have affected to discover. It
is astonishing to find Mr. Melton Prior, an
artist who capably depicts things that are, assist-
ing to boom the crazy pictures of a man who now
devotes his time to painting what never was, or
could be. In a word, if Holman Hunt's pictures
are decent representations of anything to be see n
in nature, then Melton Prior can’t draw worth
a cent, and John Everett Millais has no more
idea of colour than a guinea-pig. What does
Miss Yon Finkelstbin think of Holman Hunt’s
pictures ? s
“Mr. Parnell, who was noticed to be looking
unusually pale, worn, and anxious last week, but
who has recovered himself since Mr. O’Donnell’s
refusal to go into the witness-box, has not pre-
served his usual haughty reserve with respect to
this trial.” That is how the S. M. Herald's Lon-
don correspondent makes his political bricks when
events deny him straws. Now, might not Mr.
Parnell have looked pale, worn, and anxious, be-
cause his liver was out of order, because creditors
were dunning him, because he had indulged over-
night, because he had been reading conservative
Australian papers during the dav, because his girl
had jilted him, because his teeth ached, because
his corns were troublesome, or because he had
been wearing tight boots ? And might he not
have recovered when any or all of these things
passed? The Herald’s man notes that the re-
covery dates from “ the refusal of O Donnell to go
into the witness-box.” Avaunt, fraudulent resur-
rectionist of Tenterden Steeple and the Goodwin
Sands ! If a thing occurs after it does not follow
that it occurs because.
Canada has made gambling in stocks and shares
a misdemeanour. Until Australiafo’lows suit her
laws against gambling will ba lop-sided. Why
should gambling with cards be suppressed and
gambling with bits of paper called scrip be allowed
to pass ? Either gambling of all sorts should be
pat down or the law should not interfere at all.
In some kinds of enterprises it is_ difficult, no
doubt, to tell where gambling begins, but the
difficulty should be faced if laws against gambling
are not to be the persecution of a class. The
Canadian law enacts that a person making a con-
tract for the sale or purchase of stock in any com-
pany, with the intent to make profit by the rise or
fall in price, and without the bona fide intention
to give or receive delivery of the stock, shall he
punishable by five years’ imprisonment and a fine.
There is no resting-place between some such legis-
lation as this over the whole field of speculative
enterprise and no Pgislation at all.
The New South Wales Cabinet has had its atten-
tion drawn to the Mount Rennie case during the
past week, but “no action was taken” in the
matter. Subsequently, Minister-for-Justice Clarke
chatted with Premier Parkes about the corres-
pondence which had passed between him (Clarke)
and Mr. Justice Windeyer. The present
Ministry is extremely unlikely to do anything
which will disturb the statuquoness of things in
general or of the Mount Rennie case in particular.
If public opinion were to find expression in a great
mass meeting the Government might feel com-
pelled to appoint a Commission to inquire into the
manner in which criminal trials are conducted in
New South Wales, but at present public opinion
seems at so low an ebb that it would apathetically
and passively submit to Egyptian bondage rather
than exert itself even after the most trivial
fashion in the direction of bringing about an up-
right and even-handed administration of that
justice which is supposed to be the right of every
citizen however poor he may be or however pre-
judiced his case.
♦
On a fast, true wicket, “All England” has beaten
the present Australian Eleven by an innings and
137 runs, after losing the toss The defeat was
somewhat more decisive than was expected, but it
fully bears out The Bulletin’s remarks re the
former “test” match, about which such wilful
misrepresentations were made by journals that
are for ever endeavouring to keep alive the Aus-
tralian reputation for “blow.” That same
“blow,” as sensible new-chums are the first to
admit, has very little existence except in news-
papers, and in nowise reflects young Australia’s
ideas upon a game so familiar to us all as cricket.
The Bulletin has never written about inter-
national cricket except on the solid basis of figures,
and figures show that the Englishmen are
just now superior to the Australians (we speak of
picked teams) at all points of the game except
bowling. Their superiority in batting and field-
ing makes them appear to be better bowlers even
on reliable turf. In this last match, for instance,
Barnes took altogether seven wickets for 50 runs,
and Briggs clean bowled five for 25 in the first
innings. They couldn’t have done mu -h better
had they been T urnek and Ferris on a wicket
exactly suited to them, but that proves nothing
except that the sixth Australian Eleven are
woefully weak in batting. They have never
run up a long score agdnst the best profes-
sional bowling, for in tne first Surrey match
(of which so much was made) it appears that both
Lohmann and Beaumont were disabled, and the
runs were made off such men as Abel, Bowlky,
and Walter Read with his underhand Io j-.
When h-avy scoring is impossible for either side
then “Our Boys” stand as good a chance of
beating All-England as of being beaten by a weak
county team (like Leicestershire), which includes
two decent bowlers. If enough rain falls at the
favourable moment it is even money on Turner,
Ferris and dashing M ‘Donnell winning the
forthcoming big match at Manchester. If the
ground is in good condition—which it seldom is at
Manchester—the Britishers will win very easily.
♦ : '
The Sydney D.T., in a moment of ill-judged
truthfulness, writes concerning the New South
Wales ruins in the Melbourne Exhibition :
“A sorrier, sicklier show than our poor New South
Wales machinery exhibits make could hardly be imagined.
Huddled away into cold corners, the absence of special
effort and energy is miserably apparent. Actually, out-
side of Hudson Brothers, you may say we have nothing.
. . . But when it comes to a question of touching on
Victorian machinery exhibits it’s dangerous ground. Tne
show of the latter is so big, so perfect, that it calls for
special comment all to itself. Besides, to do a quarter
justice to it, it would take a day or two’s most particuLr
study.”
A long era of glorious Ereetrade has left New
South Wales to be represented in the machinery
department by one rat-trap and a few primitive
contrivances for raising a dust. The Ereetrade
journalist who is compelled to mention the fact,
however, generally states that it is owing entirely
to intercolonial jealousy, or to the state of the
weather, or arrives at some equally imbecile con-
clusion, and then he hurriedly passes on from the
empty courts in which the “mother ” colony shows
her dependence and her poverty and proceeds to
spread himself on the splendid model of the
famous Eish River Caves. Caves are things
which get on irrespective of human brains, and
so the cave industry —like the beautiful ’Arbour —
flourishes in New South Wales. But unhappily
man cannot live on caves alone, and even the
splendours of -I enolan are a poor set-off against
the vast array of Victoria’s flourishing industries.
And besides, this much-boasted feature of natural
scenery would probably have been there just the
same even if New South Wales were trodden down
by the iron heel of Protection —Free trade doesn t
make much difference in the matter of caves. And
now that we come to think of it the caves are a
protected industry after all, for a bloated monopo-
list of a guide levies a duty on visitors and runs
the show on tariff principles.
“The Centennial Magazine."
On Ist August was published the inaugural
number of an ambitious “Australian monthly, ”
the Centennial Magazine, edited by Mr. Ernest
Blackwell, a clever young journalist who has
already made his name familiar to Australian
readers. The serial is neatly gotten up, well
printed, and fairly well illustrated, surpassing in
the last mentioned particular every previous pub-
lication issued from the Australian Press with
the exception of the Picturesque Atlas, which
huge concern has resources at its command for the
production of fine art engraving and printing far
beyond the reach of the publishers of the Centen-
nial. Among the literary contiibutions the
brightest things in the number are ‘ ’ By the N ght
Express,” by A.C.., a chatty paper on Music,
being an evening with Mr. Alfred Cellier, by
E. 8., “Pensees,” by Mr. Dalley, and a piper on
“ Realism,” by Francis Adams. It is noteworthy
that the most readable papers—those of A.C. and
E. B. —are subscribed by only the initials of their
respective writers, while the heavy artillery of
well-known names has been employed in firing off
blank cartridges. Mr. D alley’s paper—if it can
be called a paper—is bright. All Mr. Dalley s
work partakes more or less of this sunset quality.
It is also jerky, staccato, disconnected, it is an
articulated animal pieced together from the odd
limbs of half-thoughts. Considering that the
i ‘ Pongsays ” are the “ pongsays ” of a Privy
Councillor they are above par. The Sydney
D.T. calls Mr. Dalley’s paper “ fugitive
prose pieces banging together like pearls
on a string.” “ Pieces ” is good (there is
nothing rounded or complete in any single
thought). Like condemned from many different
climes, they are only brought together to be
hanged. It would seem that when asked for a
contribution Mr. Dalley gave only a few scraps
from his waste-paper-basket. Mr. Francis
Adams spoils a good paper with a painful streak
of morbid self-consciousness, which is, however,
only a partial blemish and gives a rather Rous-
seauish interest to an otherwise keenly-written
essay of literary criticism. The Centennial con-
tains, of course, the inevitable plea for art from
the pen of the übiquitous Mr. Julian Ashton, as
what colonial journal does not? Mr. George
Washington GbifhTn enthuses over a young lady
known in the first rank of amateur theatricals as
Mary Anderson, to whom he, or a brother of his,
bears some more or less distant relationship,
and the legitimate stage is also beamed upon by a
man bearing the patrician name of Smith, who
rises to prove, in an article entitled “Shake-
si’EAßE and the Rabble,” that the great Eliza-
bethan was a snob. This is the sin denounced as
unpardonable in Holy Writ; a greater offence
than that attempted by Ignatius Donnelly to
prove that Shakespeare was Bacon. Before
Smith dares again to attack a problem of this
magnitude and chvracter he should have his name,
by special Act of Parliament, altered to Caring-
ton. Somebody once said all the fun is
on the side of progress. Mr. Brunton
Stephens evidently believes otherwise, for
in a few patter verses—as unworthy his
pen as they are of a place in the Centennial
Magazine —he labours to extract a little lemonadey
fun from out of the “ Gentle Anarchist.” He
should next write Gilbertian stanzas on the
“Sentimental Capitalist” or the “Emotional
Pawnbroker.” The papers, probably unde-
signedly, thus appear to have been selected with
a view to the propitiation of the Mrs. Grundy’ of
aggressive respectability. By the way, Mr.
Gilbert Parker contributes a “ Proem ” full of
stereotyped phrases chinky with pocket-money,
“golden-hearted,” “golden panoply,” and other
alleged coin. To this effusion is appended the
name Gilbert Parker. We anxiously rise to
enquire if the Horatio has wandered abroad and
been lost to the uses of sonorous advertisement.
And, by the way, seeing that its own Parker’s
name was in the little list of contributors, ■why did
the S.M. Herald rear in its might to so spitefully
assail the new venture ? Was it jealousy in regard
to the editorship being occupied by a prominent
member of the staff of a rival organ? Is there no
prophet outside the Hunter-street conventicle ?
Amongst other contributions to the Centennial
the most ambitious is perhaps David
Dalston's “Twin Secrets,” a psychological
story ; the remainder of the number is
made up with a “ Visit to King Island,” by
Baldwin Spencer, “ The Poet’s Last Dream,” by
Lionel Frederick, a descriptive paper on the
Yarra, by Alexander Sutherland, “ Reminis-
cences of Horse Racing,” by John Lackey,
“Carved and Painted Rocks of Australia,” by
Dr. Carroll, and a short article on the “Centen-
nial Exhibition,” by a “Melbourne Journalist,”
The whole number is really well worth the modest
shilling at which it is published, but the literary
side of the magazine is rather disappointing—we
say this in no captious mood —inasmuch as though
many of the articles are bright, eminently read-
able and interesting, there is a lack of unity in
the serial as a whole. We think that there are
too many contributions dependent for their in-
terest on the attached signatures, hence many of
them are too short. There is a general impression
of scrappiness about this first number of the
Centennial which, for the sake of a really
deserving enterprise, we should have preferred
not to be compelled to be so conscious of.
A loung Australian Dramatist.
Mi:,-0. Haddon Chambers, whose portrait ap-
pears in this issue of The Bulletin, is, in the
words of the London Star “surely the youngest
playwright who ever bowed to an enthusiastic
London audience in the very height of the London
season.” Proceeds the same paper, referring to
the recent production by Mr. Beerbobm Tree at
the Haymarket Theatre of Mr. Chambers’ latest
play, “ Captain Swift ” : “ What a house ! what a
furore! After repeated yells for the author a
pale delicate lad appeared on the stage and took
off his hat to the audience. This young
man is a veritable mushroom, unknown and un-
heard of yesterday, to-day a hero. Never surely
was anybody’s hand so much shaken as his was as
he mixed with the distinguished crowd which
poured out of the Haymarket at about half-
past 5. , . . How in the space of 22 years is
so much power of passion, so much knowledge of
the human heart accumulated?” Mr. Chambers,
by the way, is 28, not 22 years, of age, and
although he probably looked pale, which was
quite natural under the circumstances, he is
not delicate, but is possessed of an excellent con-
stitution. The London press, as a whole, deals
with “Captain Swift” in an almost unprece-
dentedly eulogistic manner. According to The
Stale
The author has to a certain extent drawn on his Austra-
lian experiences, and weaving them in with English life
has produced a thoroughly original and powerful play in
which, from the vise o! the curtain to its fall, the interest
never flags ; and so cleverly is it constructed that, though
surprises are sprung on the audience, they are, after a
moment’s considera-ion, seen to be but a natural outcome
of the events occurring; nor was it possible to form any
accurate idea as to how the denouement would be brought
about or what it would be .... Io is long since so
young an author as Mr. Haddon Chambers has been ac-
corded such an ovation as greeted him when he appeared
before the curtain.
The subject of our portrait is, as The Bulletin
has previously stated, a native of Sydney, and
“Charlie” Chambers will be remembered as a
“bright boy” by many people who lived in that
city in the early portion, of the present decade.
He was always of an unsettled disposition while
anchored by force of circumstancos in Australia,
where brains are at a discount in a limited market
and literature as well as softgoods must hail from
“dear old England” to be appreciated by the
herd. For many years, during which he was con-
nected with the N.S.W. Survey Department
and other light employments, he used to yearn, as
other good men have yearned before and since
with a mighty yearn, to see something of the
world. At length the way opened and he went.
But it was only a trial flight, for after a compara-
tive! v brief trip, during which he visited the
North of Ireland—the home of his father’s family
—and other portions of the United Kingdom, he
returned to Sydney for a spice. In the latter end
of 1882 he once more found himself in London.
It was not until some time had elapsed that he
tried his hand at literature, and then his efforts
took the form of stories of unusual promise,
published in such publications as the Argosy,
Belgravia, Truth, Society, and the various
periodicals issued from the great house of Cassell.
Among his stories written at this time, “The
Pipe of Peace,” published in The Argosy, is a
particularly artistic piece of emotional writing.
His first attempt at writing for the stage resulted
in the production, in 1880, of “ One of Them,” a
farcial comedy which was well received and favour-
ably spoken of by the press, Then came “The
Open Gate,” a lever de rideau which the Daily
Chronicle described as “graceful and sentimen-
tal,” and the Morning Post as “ a pleasant little
piece of dramatic anecdotage, flimsy enough
in texture but entirely sweet and whole-
some in sentiment.” A greater effort than
any previous one was made last year,
when he, in conjunction with Mr. Stanley
Little dramatised Rider Haggard’s “Dawn.”
The result of their labours, a four-act drama
under the title of “Devil Caresfoot,” was pro-
duced at a matinee at the Vaudeville Theatre,
and was instantly pronounced a striking success.
But the reward was still withheld, for, owing to a
series of theatrical trickeries and disasters, Mr.
Chambers did not make as much out of “Devil
Caresfoot ” as he anticipated and deserved ; and
this play, of which great things were expected,
has not yet had a fair show on the London stage.
With “Captain Swift” it is different, for it has
already been announced that the play has been
accepted for the evening bill at the Haymarket
Theatre, that the American rights have been sold
for a large sum to the proprietary of the Madison
Square Theatre, New York, and that there is talk
of bringing out the piece in Germany.
The Land of the Grocodile.
Dear Bulletin, — Looking calmly at the
affairs of N.S.W. from an enchantment-lending
distance of 1500 miles, I behold a few pictures
which are, perhaps, not visible to your naked eye
so impartially as they are viewed through my
long-range telescope. You, who are under the
shadow of the mountain, are not likely to behold
its outlines so clearly as those afar off. Let me
regard you, however, as the Eurylochus, the one
wise Greek, who has turned aside from the potions
of the Parkesian Circe, and of those equally
Syrenian seducers who seek to raise monuments
to Governor Phillip and Dr. Lang. The friends
of the rugged and honest old Caledonian Presby-
terian will pardon me for incarcerating him in the
same Bastille as the exponent of convict philosophy
and the ethics of the lash. My only business
here with the old man is to quote the following
observation made by him about the year 1835.
He was then member for Port Phillip in the
N.S.W. Legislative Council: —
“It appears to me that if a tract of land of from ten to
twenty thousand acres were purchased from the Govern-
ment, at one of the Northern settlements of New South
Wales, say Port Macquarie, and a thousand families of
Chinese settled upon it in one body, either as tenants at
a rental in produce or as proprietors, and allowed to adopt
their own manners and customs without interference on
the part of the colonists, the tea-plant might be intro-
duced with every prospect of success. Were a House of
Assembly established in N. S. Wales, I have no doubt
that such a scheme would at least be attempted, and the
funds required be trifling.”
And now !
* * *
And, speaking of Parkes, reminds me of
the saying of Pyrrhus that he would “leave the
kingdom to the man with the sharpest sword.”
It appears to me that N.S.W. is leaving herself to
the tender mercies of the men with the woodenest
heads. Solon had no law against parricide and
sacrilege. These were unimaginable crimes, and
there are no laws against politicians who con-
template building State Houses and erecting
statues to Governors of the stamp of Phillip.
About 14 years ago some escaped lunatic gravely
proposed, in one of the Scottish papers, the erec-
tion of a statue on the field of Culloden to “ per-
petuate the memory of the House of Hanover !”
And all Scotland rose at once on its hind legs, and
swore by the Sacred Haggis on a tubful of brose,
"that it would give up whisky and die first! Let
the manhood of N S. Wales sit straight up, and
swear by the brindled kangaroo and the red emu,
that this State House and Phillip statue outrage
shall never disgrace the records of an Australian
state !
• « *
You have a friendly feeling for the pre-
sent party in power in Queensland, and it has
puzzled more people than myself to discover the
cause of your enthusiasm in that direction. Your
rejoicing seems rather premature. The word
“ National ” has probably captivated you. Griffith
went under by reason of the weakness of his col-
leagues and his followers. What victories or con-
quests could be achieved by a Ciesar or an Alex-
ander with an army of old women armed w ith
broom-handles and flat-irons ? I myself have an
admiration for MTlwraith’s abilities, bub would
have admired him more if he had rejected the
Imperial title with contempt and shown in the
past more sympathy with the working-classes and
less anxiety about syndicates and cheap-labour
capitalistic fortune-hunters. The painter, Zeuxis,
died laughing at the picture of an old woman he
had drawn, and it is not unreasonable bo suppose
that Sir Thomas is in some danger of dissolution
from suppressed hilarity at the credulity of those
who regard his Ministry as the exponents of
Queensland Democracy and the representation of
labour. However, a change was desirable, and it
remains to be seen if our “ great expectations ”
are to be fulfilled.
* * •
How many more of Australia’s statesmen
will have the self-respect to refuse these Brum-
magem Imperialistic titles ? Is it not a mournful
spectacle for gods and men to see these Austral
eagles soaring through the blue empyrean of De-
mocracy with those ridiculous Imperialistic pea-
cock feathers stuck in their tails ? The people of
Troas raised a temple to Apollo, because he had
expelled all the rats from their country. Some
day the Australians will carve their loftiest moun-
tain into a statue of the statesman who annihilates
Imperialism and establishes a true and noble
Democracy on a solid basis.
• • •
A North Queensland clergyman had a dis-
pute with a well-known auctioneer concerning
an allotment belonging to the apostle on
which a public-house was to be erected as the
most likely establishment to let at a high rental.
The name of the owner of the allotment was to be
kept a secret as profound as that of the graves of
Moses or Alaric ; but, alas ! there was a row
over the commission, and a law case exploded the
whole carefully-constructed fabric and scattered it
broadcast ! One day the clergyman met a friendly
son of Belial in the main street and confidentially
enquired if it would be “ consistent with his pro-
fession as a Christian to punch the head of the
auctioneer ” ? The Belialite at once replied,
“Certainly, my dear sir! Is it not the duty of
every Christian minister to knock Hell out of the
whole human race ? ”
* * *
An ancient gentleman named Pythagoras,
a believer in the circumlocutory cycle theory of
metempsychosis, or something of that sort, be-
lieved that he was present at the Trojan war as
Euphorbas. A Cairns merchant, W. D. Hobson,
was probably Nimrod or Bairam at a previous
epoch. He gave satisfactory proof of this on a
shooting excursion to Green Island, an appro-
priately named field for the performance of
eccentric sportsmen. Rambling round the island
he suddenly beheld on the sea-beach a mysterious-
looking animal that appeared to be a cross be-
tween a giant “go anna, ” and the glyptodon of a
previous geological period. Telling his awe-struck
comrades to “lie still and don’t move,” he stalked
the mysterious beast behind a derelict cedar-log
washed ashore from a departed schooner. Arrived
at the log, he rose and fired both barrels at a 20-
yards range with no apparent result. Believing
that the wonderful animal was sound asleep after
a journey from some other planet or an unknown
ocean on the other side of the Nevermore he re-
loaded, and emptied two more cartridges with
similar effect. Then the other warriors came up,
and they all marched on the mighty prey in light
skirmishing order, with their guns cocked and
their hearts in the inside of their boots. When
they discovered that Hobson had been emptying
shot into the skeleton of a dead crawfish of large
dimensions they sat down on the sand and gave
themselves up to a form of hilarity rarely ex-
perienced by any man more than once in a life-
time.
MAROOGALINE.


Sundry Shows.
Thbatbb Royal.— “ Gaiety Burlesque Com-
pany” 15,
Heb Majesty’s.— “ Lights o’ London ”
Obitebion. —“Jim the Penman ”
Alhambba.— Minstrelsy
Academy op Music.— Federal Minstrels
Mr. Charles Warner’s Hamlet was a very
intelligent conception of Shakespeare’s royal
Dane, but the mannerism of the actor occasion-
ally blurred his acting of the part. Mr. Warner
has a vicious little habit of spitting out invec-
tive in spasmodic monosyllables, of drawling out
sentiment with a dudeish intonation in a falsetto
voice which time and again reminds one unpleas-
antly of Plain Bill Holloway. In the philosophic
soliloquies he would linger like a rhetorician on
the copula of his propositions as if he were men-
tally passing in review various fine dictionary
phrases in which to sonorously formulate his pre-
dicate. Yet his Hamlet was complete and
harmonious and really fine in isolated spots. The
chamber scene with Ophelia, in which he rants to
the hidden King and Polonius and endeavours by
silent by-play to convey a different mean-
ing to his visible auditor, was especially
good. The play scene, and the scene with
the Queen, in which the rat-dirking situation
occurs, were also finely enacted. Mr. Warner’s
Hamlet is a compromise between his Coupeau
and his Claude Melnotte, with a leaning to the
latter. [No sarcasm is intended here.] He
was well supported by Mr. Herbert Flem-
ming as Horatio, and Miss Jenny Watt-
Tanner as the Queen. Mr. Vincent’s Ghost was
impressive according to stage tradition, and Miss
Isabel Morris was sufficiently colourless as
Ophelia. Nature ordained that Miss Morris
should glide through modern sensational drama as
a deserted and persecuted female with her back-
hair streaming out in the weird rays of the lime-
light ; and Shakespeare, who never wrote any
dialogue for back-hair or limelight, over-weights
the hard-working and earnest little lady. Mr.
Clitherow’s grave-digger had a fine gruesome
flavour about it, and Mr. Frank Gerald’s Laertes
was painstaking and conscientious, but the actor
lacked the voice, physique, and passion demanded
by the part. For the rest, kindness entreats
silence and our tongue lies quiet.
** * *
Mr. Warner’s benefit was an overpowering
success, and the bill was the most meaty the
patrons of the Royal have sat down to for many a
night. The attendance was ponderous and gor-
geou s 1 y at-
tired, and the
heart of the
urbane Good-
man bounded
rapturously at
the spectacle
of a dress-
circle choked
with decollete
costumes re-
lieved with
diamonds. Mr.
Charles War-
ner and Miss
Isabel Morris
gave in lieu of
oysters and
chablis the
time-honoured
old farcical
chestnut of
“ The Happy
Pair,” after
which Mr.
Warner made
a speech which
e verybody
seemed very
pleased with,
and then the
stage was
cleared for
the big piece
of the evening,
Tom Taylor’s
romantic dra-
m a of the
“ Fool’s Re-
ve n g e,” i n
which the
vanishing Coupeau played the part of Ber-
tuccio, the ducal jester. Barring his acting in
“Drink,” this was the most satisfactory of Mr.
Warner’s presentations we have seen. He got rid
of his painful little masherk ms, and played with a
savage earnestness and high-wrought intensity
t hat bore no likeness to his previous impersonations.
His jesting was a shade too harsh, and reminded one
now and then of “ Uncle ” Abigail’s alleged comic
singing, and he hissed out hisbons-mots withafervid
and revolting brutality that seemed hardly con-
sonant with a jester’s fooling. In the scene with
his daughter, in the scenes in which he reveals in
soliloquy bis hatred of Malatesta, and in the final
scene in which he discovers his victim to be not
his enemy’s wife but his own adored and petted
child, Mr. Warner’s acting was admirable. “ The
Fool’s Revenge ” is a terrible play, and leaves a
hideous impression behind it, but it is strong and
powerful, and seemed exactly to suit the capabili-
ties of a gifted emotional actor like Mr. Warner.
• •
As the wicked Duke, Mr. Herbert Flemming
had a fins vicious rdle, and sustained it to the
verge of a riot on the part of the audience.
Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner played the Duchess
with a cold fervour and an icy hatred _ of her
husband that one might associate with the
idea of the beauteous and naughty Borgia.
As the jester’s daughter, Miss Warner made her
first bow to a Sydney audience, and she was loved
and cherished on the nonce. Without being a
great actress she is pretty, graceful, and idyllic,
and creditably sustains the character of an inno-
cent maiden brought up in seclusion and then
suddenly flung into the seething vortex of proud
and courtly vice. For the rest, only Mr. Frank
Gerald, as the poet with a long Italian name, stands
out with any prominence, and be performed the
part with the assistance of hyacinthine locks of
blonde, and a guitar upon which he never played,
to the entire satisfaction of the ladies of the
audience. After the conclusion of the drama Mr.
Warner came before the curtain and spoke a
speech which was received with considerable ap-
plause, and then he took up his carpet-bag and
struck for a distant shore. By the way, in taking
farewell of Mr, Warner we wish to remark that
he has a bad habit of coming before the curtain
after dying in the last act. This is calculated to
heap contempt upon the stage and to destroy every
principle of poetic justice,
* * * *
On Saturday the London Gaiety Com-
pany opened to a bumper house at Sydney Royal,
with “Monte Christo Jnr.” As The Bulletin,
during this talented company’s stay in Melbourne,
gave exhaustive notices of this performance, ex-
tended remarks are now unnecessary. But we
give instead, on this page, the portraits of a few
of the company’s leading artists as they appear in
the humble garb of private life. During their stay
overflowing houses and a bursting exchequer are
safe odds for backers.
** ♦ #
The “Lights o' London” show no signs
of fading at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and the
water into which George Rignold falls every
night is not yet dried up. All the leading charac-
ters continue to prosper, and the minor acces-
sories, right down to the consumptive baked-
potato man, remain in good health. The seraphs
and others at the Alhambra have been reinforced
by a Japanese gentleman without bones, whose
name is either Koto-
mo or Smith, and
who can fold himself
up in six parts, while
another f oreignerf rom
the Land of the Rising
Sun bends himself
double on top of a
shaky pyramid of
cigar - boxes. The
Bondi Aquarium now
advertises albatrosses
and alligators in ad-
dition to its ancient
attractions, and the
enterprise of the
management thus
provides new and un-
exampled facilities
for the wicked uncle
of romance who wants
to drop the innocent
child that stands be
tween him and the
“ pile ” down among
the whales, there to
be swallowed up and
never heard of any
more. Also Miss Yon
Finkelstein has been
casting sundry new
lights on the charac-
ter of Jacob, who, it
seems, wasn’t quite
such a mean, under-
mining old shepherd
as is generally sup-
posed, and the much-
travelled Smy the
MISS LETTY LIND.
has received sundry
complimentary letters
from the Sheik of
Damascus and other
important eastern
parties, expressing
their admiration of
Miss Finkelstein’s
abilities and learning.
The Shriek —we
mean the Sheik —is
particularly lavish in
his expressions, and
this conduct on the
part of the Howl, or
the Shriek, or who-
ever he is, says much
for the genuineness
of the show.
'A' *W*
Hiscocks and
Friedman’s Minstrels
pursue their nefarious
track at Sydney
Academy, and as soon
as one novelty retires
raving owing to too
much success they
have another ready
to take its place.
Among the features
now on draught is
Professor Oanaris,
described as “ the
Great Greek Illusion-
ist and Wizard,”
whose speciality lies
in - stealing in with
a smothered tread
and showing you
something that you think you see but which
you don’t see after all, and just when you think
you see it he cuts off somebody’s head or does
something equally rash and is suddenly swallowed
up. His performances in Europe are said to have
created a furore, and he is bringing it along with
him. Business continues good at the Academy.
* # * #
“ Jim, the Penman,” at Sydney Criterion,
with its basis of forgery and elegant villainy, and
its superstructure of gilded refinement, policemen,
evening dress, boot-varnish, fraud, and quail on
toast, is a good subject to moralise upon. In the
remote fastnesses of the days gone by, when man
wore a coat of fur and flicked the flies off himself
MR. FRED. LESLIE.
MISS NELLIE FARREN.
MISS MARION HOOD.
PROMINENT MEMS ERS of the GAIETY COMPANY.
with his tail, such dramas as this would have been
impossible. For one thing, the hazy predecessor
with the tail had no signature to forge, and it was
only when he lost his tail and began to acquire
knowledge that he departed from the paths of
rectitude. In the period of his innocence he pur-
sued his caudal appendage without guile amid the
leafy shades of his native forests; his literary
efforts were confined to a shrill scream when he
chanced to be trodden on, and he had no effete
civilisation to prop up and no pocket-handker-
chief. In fact, we confess with grief that he
used a leaf instead. But gradually his hair was
rubbed off by long concussion against outward
circumstances; his tail was frittered away by per-
petual attrition or was gnawed off by rats while he
was asleep ; and he learned to build fires and sin
in a tall hat instead of being innocent up a tree.
“ Jim the Penman ” is a speaking picture of him
in his fallen state, and after looking at him from
every possible point
of view, we are in-
clined to prefer him
as he was some
500,000 years ago
when he sat on the
lee side of an herb
to dodge the blast.
These remarks are
not offered in any
personal sense, and in
particular they are
not directed at Mr.
Saint Maur, who
plays the part of
James Ralston with
remarkable ability.
Without any desire
to tear the immortal
truth we express our
conviction that the
character of the
shady hero could
hardly be shown to
greater advantage.
Mr. A. Lawrence does
some excellent work,
and there is a quiet
earnestness about his
delineation of his part
as Louis Percival
which shows that
cleaned out and but-
toned-up American
citizen to great ad-
vantage. Mr, Owen
Harris acts well as a
detective of morbid
and unhealthy cute-
MISS SYLVIA GREY.
ness, though his make-
up presents one or
two features of awful-
ness. Mr. Geo. Anson
makes a great strike
as a muffled baron,
and Mr. W. Bernard,
a new arrival from
London, an attrac-
tive and intelligent
rendering of a lord
with an open coun-
tenance. Miss Agnes
Thomas ranks along
with Mr. St. Maur as
the superlative glory
of the show. Among
the many good points
which she scores in
the course of the per-
formance perhaps the
best is in the third
act, when she bowls
out her erring hus-
band over a cheque
for £s—but if we ex-
pressed all we feel re-
garding this lady we
would probably de-
generate into bathos
and thence into drivel.
And weloathe drivel
above allthings.
* * *
The Coo g e e
Aquarium boasts two
new attractions this
week—Mdlle. Garetta
with her bevy of per-
forming pigeons, and
a trapeze gentleman
called Ouda who jumps 100 feet from the roof
to the floor.
#* # #
The Melbourne Opera House Company,
Limited, temporarily without a tenant, are filling
un a three weeks interregnum with a revival of
Miss Emelie Melville and other popular works.
Proceedings started on Saturday with some more
“ Martha,” put through in pretty cheerful style,
and marked by good singing on the part of Messrs.
Hubbard and Stockwell. The voice of Miss
Melville is not what it used to be, neither has. her
shadow grown less since she last appeared in Mel-
bourne, but her acting as the lively Nancy left
nothing to be wished for in particular. Miss
Colbourne-Baber was another pleasing feature of
a performance which prospered in spite of an
emaciated orchestra, and promised to be better in
the future.
«VA, «AA.
*7v* Tv Tv Tv*
At the Bijou there was a large and pro-
longed demonstration in honour of Mr. Robert
Brough and “The Magistrate”—not to mention
Mrs Brough and Miss Emma Temple. Pinero’s
comedy is already a twice-told tale at this same
house, which is probably the reason why every-
body wants to hear it told all over again as <of ten
as they care to come. Mr. and Mrs. Brough,
Titheradge, Boucicault, and one or two others are
immense in their old places. The changes in the
cast are, roughly speaking, a gain rather than a
loss, and the one weak spot seems to be Mrs.
Posket. Miss Lucia Harwood is too distinctly
juvenile in this part, which was written for Mrs.
John Wood, and can never be played to perfection
by any other woman on earth. “ The Magistrate”
will be sitting for three or four weeks, judging
from the state of the public barometer on the
opening night.
** * *
The Gaiety company departed from the
Princess’s to appear again in another part of this
paper, and the stage they left behind them is now
hallowed by that spirit of youth and beauty
known here below as Essie Jenyns. Essie is to
remain on the premises for six weeks, after which
she will spread her snowy pinions and fly away to
England, where the dukes and marquises are put-
ting a final polish upon their coronets preparatory
to laying them down at her feet. No new plays
of Shakespeare’s being available, Miss Jenyns
made her bow as Portia, supported by the com-
pany to which we have become inured and
hardened. Everything went on as usual,
except that somebody aimed a bouquet at Essie
during the progress of a scene (just as though she
was Nellie .Barren), and the offending blossoms
didn’t get picked up. A well-filled house hung
upon Portia’s every word and gesture with evi-
dent satisfaction. Bhe fetched them in the same
old places as ever, and if her sweet performance
was a little mechanical, and her voice was that of
another who shall complain. Shakespeare is*
elegantly mounted.
*# * *
A certain smart not to say wily and
remorseless member of the company originally
engaged to support an uncertain singer at a certain
place lately refused to go one night until the
manager handed up his watch and chain as
security for salary due. That man knows the
time o’ day, you bet.
It is ru-
moured that
there is joy in
store for the
English pub-
lic. According
to a whisper
which is going
round Miss
Nellie Stewart
accompanied
by her father
(Richard Ste-
wart, the eld-
er), R. H. Har-
wood, who is
something like
a son-in-law or
a distant bro-
ther or an aunt
to the Stewart
family, Rich-
ard Stewart,
the younger,
who is honour-
ed by the billet
of brother to
the peerless
Nellie, and his
wife, Miss
Constance De-
orwyn, may
all shortly de-
part for the
land of our be-
sotted adora-
tion. And this
is why we
move the ad-
journment of the House to say something
savage and malevolent about the practice of
throwing pearls in front of animated pork, as
more fully described in the Scripture, which
rushed down a steep place to get salted in the sea.
* * * *
“ Little Nell and the Marchioness ” froze
at Mt Ibourne Royal. This week they are play-
ing “Miner’s Daughter,” and next week Miss
Carrie Swain makes her farewell appearances in
the tank. There was a pathetic attendance at the
Alexandra on Saturday night to see Mr. Sidney
gi vearealß good performance of “Henry Dunbar.”
It is possible, however, that he will get a little
patronage for “The Mystery of a Hansom Cab”
to come off on Saturday next. The Halls are
doing fair business —but more on this subject
another time.
* * # *
In September Leitch and Boucicault will
stage a uew piece at Sydney Criterion.
UL qt un
TP Tv *7v*
The course of classical concerts at Mel-
bourne Exhibition is not running smooth, and
Conductor Cowen wags his baton with the air of
a fond father waiting to give his well-beloved son
what for. He brought a light to lighten our
darkness, but a lot of unregenerate savages, who
prefer to grope about in the old gloom, are trying
to blow out this light by driving nails into the
concerts with a sledge hammer, or tramping out
to get a drink in the middle of a large movement
in B flat. Seriously speaking, the man who hath
not music in his soul is reducing Mr. Cowen to
skin and bone and harrowing the feelings of the
public generally. They want to hear a symphony
(or think they do) and can only hear a fellow
thumping at a show-case outside. Just as
sweetest strains of music have lulled them into
slumber somebody wakes them up with a saw.
Every day last week the conductor had to stop
in the middle of a tender passage to call down a
curse from Heaven upon carpenters who said they
wasn’t going to knock off work for no bloomin’
“ sympathy” that took an hour to get through, and
on one awful occasion Mr. Cowen refused to
struggle on against 10 chisels and a mallet. There
was no more concert until next time. As regards
the debased creatures who can’t hear classical
music for long without feeling a burning desire to
take up their hats and walk, Mr. Cowen will soon
bring them to a sense of culture. He turns
slowly round in his box, and glares at the depart-
ing forms of those miserable wretches, until they
ought to perish on the spot. This evil-eye busi*


ness is bound to succeed when it begins to be
understood.
». * * * *
The Australian Natives in Melbourne are
suggesting a shilling subscription fund “ for the
assistance of Miss Amy Sher win in her present
financial difficulties.” Meantime, somebody has
got up a benefit concert for her American artists
who are stranded on a foreign shore, and one of
them has committed an assault and battery on
Miss Sherwin’s husband. By the way, if the
Natives had supported the unfortunate show with
their shillings there would have been no financial
difficulties for anybody at all.
*♦ * *
As the Y.M.C.A. Hall, and even the New
Masonic Hall, are much too small for Miss Von
Finkelstein’s audiences, it is easy to imagine the
expression the countenance of the Much-Travelled
wore as he read the following post-card :
“Dear Sir, —Would it be possible to get some compli-
mentary tickets for Miss Von Finkelstein’s lectures ? I
know some ladies who take great interest in such informa-
tion as would be obtainable from such able discourses,
but half-a-orown a lecture would be quite beyond their
means. An answer would oblige, if not trespassing too
much upon your kindness. Please address, Mrs. ,
** * *
Comic opera reigns supreme at Adelaide
Royal, and the houses have been large. “La
Mascotte ” was the opening piece with Nellie
Stewart as the luck-bringer. Aggie Kelton has
scored well, and Billy Elton, as the Duke,
makes all his points go, and gags in a
funny manner at every turn, Knight
Aston, Leumane, and Benham help in a great
measure to make things go well, and the show
altogether receives great attention. “Princess
Ida ” will be the next wholesome item. Tommy
Hudson is at Garner’s Theatre with a big troupe.
AT- -Y- -Y-
--'A' •W' w *3r
More mesmerists have arrived in Sydney,
one of them being a lady. A woman, if she’s nice
enough, can mesmerise any man in a sort of way ;
but how comes it that some mesmerist of the kind
who exercises absolute power over his subjects,
doesn’t make a specialty of seeking out rich men
and putting them under control, with a view to a
big cheque or two ? Perhaps the mere fact that a
man is rich makes him proof against mesmerism,
just as it often tends to make him unsentimental;
it certainly cannot be that no “ mesmerist” can be
found dishonest enough to take advantage of the
powers with which he has been endowed, for we
have within the last 15 years met with one or two
of the biggest rogues who ever ran loose, trading
under the mesmeric death’s head and crossbones.
** * *
Bush township barn-stormers will heave an
unavailing sigh as they read about the humane
treatment served out to a travelling theatrical com-
pany at Szentes, in Hungary. It seems that the
show, having pawned its last pair of boots in
Szentes, was voted 10 florins by the town council,
together with permission to collect broken victuals
and other necessaries from the citizens. At latest
dates the first tragedian and leading low comedy
man were going from door to door with an old hat,
kindly lent by the Mayor. The hungary pro.
doesn’t have such luck in Australia.
** * *
A New York paper tells a pretty little
story of sisterly devotion :
“ A burlesque artiste, who is forbidden an appearance
in New York on account of the exceeding scantiness of
her attire and the brevity, top and bottom, of her trans-
lucent outfit, excuses her comparative nudity by the ex-
planation that she is earning money for the purpose of
keeping her brother at college, where he is being educated
for a minister ; and the more money she makes the more
accomplished shepherd will he become ; and as nakedness
is more conducive to money-making than is full attire,
the young lady very judiciously elects to go naked. The
brother, meanwhile, purchases prayer-books and other
puzzles with the cash flowing from his sister’s tights or
over her well-filled corsage ; and, as he drags iniquity
through the mire and holds forth the sinful to the scorn
of his congregation, he tucks carefully out of sight, be-
neath his pulpit, the nine-sheet poster showing his
sister’s athletic proportions, Which she has just sent him
for his judgment on the arrangement of the colours.”
The young lady’s want of clothes may thus be
blessed as the means of calling many sinners to
repentance, and the lost sheep which strayed into
the wilderness may ultimately have cause to re-
joice that she hadn’t more on her.
♦* * *
The American interviewer having hunted
Mr. Henry Irving down and pinned him in
a corner, catechised him on the subject of
what the Saturday Review calls the Shacon-
Bakespeare controversy. Some of the actor’s
observations are thus reported : —“Have you ever
noticed how the portraits of Shakespeare differ
from one another? No two of them are alike.
Some of them represent him in a ruff, and some in
a turn-down col Lr. That is deeply significant.
Depend upon it they are all portraits of Bacon
disguised. My idea is that no such person as
Shakespeare ever existed. It was another case of
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Shakespeare was
merely Bacon’s other self, and being conscious of
the transformation, Bacon, while he was Shake-
speare, tried to let the world know through the
cryptogram who really was writing the plays. As
to the epitaph, it was another device of Bacon’s,
for the reason that there are no bones under the
monument at-Stratford. The two men being the
same could only die once.”
* * m? *
A French actress —Madame Cornelie Fau-
velle—recently celebrated her 80th birthday by
playing the same part which she had taken at her
first appearance when she was five years of age.
The mashers of the First Empire who had fallen
in love with her then were all gone to dust, and
their sons were dead, and their grandsons were up
the spout, and their great grandsons were getting
shaky on the legs and red in the nose, but the
old lady still held out and looked as fresh—when
carefully painted—as she did 75 years before.
»* » *
Henry Herman and David Christie-Mur-
ray have supplied Minnie Palmer with a new play
of the “ Silver King” type.
** * *
After an amateur performance. Budding
Thespian, mournfully : “Yes, it’s true, I had the
leading part, but the audience evidently thought
I was intended for a supe.” Stage Manager:
“ Why ?” B.T. : “ Because when I appeared
they threw vegetables upon the stage.”
»* * *
Locke Richardson has recently been in
India and, under the enthusiastic patronage of
Lord Dufferin, has done well.
*** * •
Annie Pixley’s late Pacific coast tour was
not a rosy success. Joseph Jefferson begins his
next season in the States, on 24 prox. Fanny
Davenport has done well in ’Frisco, at which
place our dear old friend D. Bandmann has done
correspondingly badlv.
Sara Bernhardt’s assets have been again
seized by her creditors.
* * * *
To people of sour and melancholy disposi-
tions, who never laugh except when a man falls
from the top of a scaffolding and goes to pieces on
the pavement or something of that kind ; to blase
persons who listen to the oldest jokes of the Min-
strels without a smile, even of recognition, and
gaze upon the gambols of the Gaiety company
with dead eyes as of fish, staring immovably
through masks of cadaverous calm; to all these
(and they are many) who happen to be in Mel-
bourne there are two entertainments that never
pall—one run by Dr. Youll, the city coroner, at
various places, as opportunities present them-
selves, the other by Mr. Call, P.M., permanently
at the City Court. Of these rival shows it would
be invidious to say which is the better. What Dr.
Youll’s show gains in concentrated, ghastly interest,
it loses in variety, which is the chief characteristic
of Mr. Call’s circus. But a pleasant hour may be
spent at either of them. And, best of all —they
are free ! Here a happy thought strikes us with
regard to the latter pantomime—Why not increase
the revenue of the Law Department by holding
the Court in the evenings, and making a small
charge for admission ? This would provide light
and instructive recreation for tuo public, but, —
but, ah, it would ruin the minstrel shows. Yet,
when we come to think of it, this need hardly be.
Why not let Mr. Call and, say, Frank Clark join
together and bring out a Grand Combination En-
tertainment, with some such advertisement as the
following :
THE CALL AND CLARK COMEDY
COMPANY.
Boisterous Burlesque, Hilarious Humour, Egre-
gious Extravaganza.
To-Night (Saturday).
Exciting Programme.
Owing to the Races —Celebration, or
whatever it might be, Messrs. Call and Clark
are happy to announce that the former will be able
to present the public with the
Choicest and Most Mirth-provoking Assortment
of Hard Cases produced this Season, com-
prising—
Plain and Ornamental Drunks (the latter in-
cluding some notoiijus uniform-tearers).
Deadbeats (some of them scions of the proudest
houses in England, and nearly all well-connected
—with the lock-up), besides Other Offenders,
too numerous and uproarious to mention.
The passing of sentence in each case will be per-
formed to an appropriate accompaniment on the
Banjo and the Bones. No guarantee is necessary
to those who have previously witnessed one of
these side-splitting performances, that the present
one will Riot in Repartee and Welter in Wit.
Rochefoucauld says : “ There is something not
altogether unpleasing to us in the misfortunes of
our best friends.” Roll up early and see them.
* * * *
At the London music halls a Mellican
man, named Fontaine, is walking a wire rope on
tall stilts. There is no saving clause in the shape
of a net to this sensational feat.
* # * *
Mrs. Shaw, the lady whistler, now in
London, is able to command 10 guineas for one
and 20 for two pieces.
AA,
W W
Warner, late of Hiscock’s—hot the
“Drink” Warner—opens shortly in Charters
Towers as an auctioneer. If he’s as good on the
stump as on the stage, biz. ought to be lively in
Charters Towers during the term of his sojourn
there.
* * * *
David Buchanan says Warner imitates the
D.T.’s extremely well.
* * * *
Thus an American paper on Mrs. Brown-
Potter, the latest addition to the roll of “Society ”
actresses :
“Of Mrs. Potter herself it is a difficult task to speak.
A thing of beauty she is, beyond doubt, but it would
hardly be a joy forever to listen.to that voice, whose
natural tone, indeed, seems pleasant, but whose use on
the stage is marred by all sorts of affectations, and which,
while now shrill, now nasal, now explosive, is somehow
remarkable chiefly for its monotony. Her facial expression
has the same monotonous character. As she comes on
the stage amid the roses of her garden in the second act,
she greets the audience with a smile which is really dazzl-
ing, and seems almost sensuous. But one soon learns not
only that this is not a sensuous smile, but that it is not
even significant; in fact, that it is absolutely unmeaning,
and comes and goes as if by sudden accident, with no
gradation of expression between it and extreme gravity 7.
Another childisn indication is the occisional pout of the
rather thin lips, which also seems to have no meaning;
and the third prevailing expression is that of terror, with
a liberal display of the whites of the ey-s and many
clutches at the breast. It is difficult to tell whether ail
this immaturity of dramatic expression indicates intellect-
ual poverty, or merely inexperience and bad teaching. A
visit a year or two hence will give opportunity for an
estimate of Mrs. Potter’s capacity for growth ; but having
begun her professional c*re.-r at the wrong end, it seems
likely that she will be an amateur throughout. Her face
and her wealth of bronze hair are very beautiful, but her
figure is not especially so. and her limbs are noticeably
long and her gait and gestures!ungraceful. Her bearing
and manner, of course, indicate the refinement of good
society 7, and there is about her a rare personal oQarm, with
which her m rit as an actress has little to do.
-At- -V-
-'A' *A* 'VV'
All the Sydney clergy are loud in their
praise of “Drink” as a highly moral drama.
And yet it is divided into seven acts, which
enables the audience to go outside six times to
“ see a man.”
# * * *
Hell may be defined as the state of mind
of the theatrical manager who, owns a wife
who cannot act for sour apples, yet insists on
having the leading part in every piece produced.
♦ ♦ *
It was at a N.S.W, country town, A
wandering nigger minstrel troupe were giving a
performance and the outlook for the speculation
was anything but satisfactory. The audiences
were numerically thin and frightfully unapprecia-
tive. The corner-man trotted out his best jokes
to be received with a chilling silence ; the usual
nigger minstrel conundrums with which Noah
amused the passengers in the Ark were sprung
upon this bucolic crowd in vain, and at last the
corner-man swore by all that was black he would
take a rise out of them somehow. So he advanced
to the footlights and said that he was going to ask
a riddle and he would give a prize to whoever
guessed it in two minutes. This roused the en-
thusiasm of the audience to a certain extent,
because whenever there was a chance of making any-
thing cheap that was the time they were best suited.
So they spread out the flaps of their ears to the
breeze and listened. “ What is the difference
between this audience and a greyhound-dog that
has caught a hare ? ” Dead silence. No one
could think of an answer, and with sickening
anguish they saw the chance of making a prize
gradually fade away. “ Time ! ” yelled the corner
man, and then he spouted out his answer : “ When
he has caught a hare the greyhound has his teeth
on the hare, but this crowd have hair on their
teeth.” Then the curtain fell abruptly amid the
howls of the audience and that minstrel troupe
melted away next morning for, other fields and
pastures new.
♦* * *
J. L. Toole, the comedian, who is said to
be coming to Australia, will find some difference
between prices of admission here and those
charged by him at his house. There he gets for
stalls, 10s. ; circle, 6s. and 4s. ; upper circle and
boxes, 3s. ; pit, 2s. 6d.; gallery, Is.
*♦ # *
Do the Sydney theatrical critics take their
cue from the size of the advertisement, the
graciousness of the manager, or the previous
repute of the actor ? Look at “T ” over “J ” in
the S. M. Herald of last week. Warner’s
“Coupeau” in “Drink” had been lauded to the
skies in the columns of the Herald. “T. J.”
held his tongue until it was withdrawn from the
boards, and then he designated it a “ disgusting
personation,” and one which in itself produced
an evil effect on the mind. But he naively
observes that he speaks thus, “now that no
financial harm can be done by frank criticism.”
This is degradation.
## * *
When Fred. Leslie was a very slim and
retiring sort of young man he played Lantier in a
travesty of “Drink,” at the Royalty Theatre,
London, G. W. Anson was “ Coupeau,” and
Marie de Grey (that lovely vision with a lisp, who
brought out an Old English Comedy Company
five years ago) kicked up her legs as tall Virginie,
not very high, however, because she interpreted
the character in a long black silk dress. It was a
poor burlesque, only recalled to disgusted memory
when Fred. Leslie made his farewell speech at
Melbourne Princess’. Without his war paint he
looked, for a moment, something like the Lantier
of yore, and we saw him dance with Marie de
Grey yet once again. And Anson chased green
tigers and blue dogs in his deliriums, but never
caught them, which was entirely owing to some-
body having the monsters on the end of a string.
Meanwhile Charles Warner (it was a morning
performance) sat in a private box, not altogether
believing in such irreverent jokes about the real
Coupeau then carrying London by storm with
his magnificent, &c., &c. After this picture had
dissolved into space, Charles Warner, London,
“Drink,” Sydney, Anson, Melbourne, and Fred.
Leslie became mixed up badly, and there was no
moral to it except that you never know and can’t
be quite certain if it used to be.
** * *
Mr. Dampier’s Company were last heard
of at Rockhampton on their way North, and in
passing they set the City of Transgression, Per-
spiration, and Grief fairly on fire. The Morning
Bulletin devotes two columns to an interview
with Mr. Dampier. Fred. Maccabe, with T. V.
Twinning as business manager, has returned to
civilisation after cleaning out all the country from
far beyond the alligator line down to the coaly
wilds of Newcastle (N.S.W.) “Signor Cam-
panini, the popular tenor, sang a high note with
such vigour as to force out several of his false i
teeth,” reports an inhuman brute of an American
pressman. The O’Kane, of Charters Towers (Q.),
was the victim of a ghastly, demoniac sell
in connection with the Jungfrau-Kapelle.
Some evil spirit induced him to write: —
“ Jung Fran Kapelie, of the Swiss Mountain
Singers, who is having a most successful season in
Brisbane, leaves for the North on Saturday night.
He will open at Townsville on the 30th.” There
have been few things to equal this since the death
of the man who wanted to know what “ the indivi-
dual Withers ” had to do with “ Locksley Hall.”
Mr. Anson, now at Sydney Criterion, tells a
piteous tale of how he once played the part of a
stern uncle while suffering agonies from rheumatic
gout which, we presume, is a disease somewhat
resembling consumptive wooden-leg. He cast off
his erring nephew with supreme contempt from
the depths of an easy chair, and when he had
ordered him never to darken his doors—or white-
wash his gates—any more, the outcast had to
carry him away. A well-known Australian actor
is said to have realised £3lss. in a Chinese lottery.
He has, consequently, relinquished the stage, and
"intends spending the remainder of nis life in
dignified retirement. Dion Boucicault says that
the people of the United States pay £40,000,000
annually for their amusements. Dion ought to
know. Thanks chiefly to Agnes Robert-
son, the wife whom he went back on
when her beauty began to fade, he has
annexed his share of these floating millions.
The Majeronis appear at Melbourne Royal on
September 1 in “ Mr, Barnes of New York.”
Mr, J. H. Deorwyn, one of the oldest of Mel-
bourne actors, and father of Alice and Constance
Daorwyn, died at Richmond, Vic., on August 6.
Grattan Riggs is en 'route for Broken Hill, where
the perennial typhoid, born of absent drains and
piles of decaying vegetable matter, is laying for
the first good man who comes along.
We give in this issue the portraits of Miss Nelly
Donegan (“ the child wonder ”), aged 10, and her
little brother, the inimitable burlesque wheeler,
aged four. These remarkable youngsters are the
two champion juvenile fancy skaters and trick
bicyclists of Australia, and perform nightly at the
Sydney Crystal Palace Skating Rink, where their
performances are greeted with enthusiastic ap- •
plause. Little Nelly was first taught skating by
Mr. Silvester, at the Lyceum Hall, Melbourne, and
after about six lessons made her debut as a fancy
skater at the Melbourne Exhibition Building in
1886. In bicycle-riding she was instructed by
Prof. Rollinson, and in this branch of her business
made her first appearance at the Geelong Exhibi-
tion Theatre on July 22, 1887, and astounded the
audience with her clever and intricate feats. She
has since appeared in nearly every town-hall and
skating-rink in Melbourne, Geelong, Bal-
larat, Stawell, Adelaide, and Sydney, while
her performances at the Adelaide Jubilee
Exhibition, and later at the South Sea Exhibition
at the Melbourne Town Hall, have confirmed her
as a popular little favourite. At the last-named
she was, last April, presented with a souvenir in
the form of a gold Maltese cross. Her tiny
brother is, when his age is taken into considera-
tion, a perfect marvel, and will doubtless achieve
a position as he grows in years and cycle-accom-
plishments as one of the foremost wheelists of
Australia.
S. P. Jones. —Small-pox Jones. Why hasn’t
somebody seen this before ?
The Victorian Government think of turn-
ing the Kew Lunatic Asylum into a residential
hotel.
“Nosey Bob” has had very little business
of late, but he keeps himself in practiceby hanging
round.
The backers of Bunn lost a lot of mony
over the Botany Handicap. Bunn was stale, of
course.
Trott is surprising even his most ardent
admirers by his consistent performances with the
Australian Eleven.
“Bylong ” Tindale, at one time a breeder
of horses and owner of Sir Hercules, has just
died in the Dubbo Hospital!
Premier MTlwraith has been nominated
as a member of the R. S. Y. S. He has had a boat,
the “ Harriet Ann, ” built in Sydney.
At the end of her Sydney season, which
will probably be prolonged, Miss Yon Finkelstein
is going to the Blue Mountains to recruit.
It is rumoured that bookseller Dymock,
in buying up 70 seats for the Gaiety leg-show’s
first night, acted as agent for the Social Purity
Society.
An Australian visitor is said—by the cable-
man—to have lost £20,000 by backing the Aus-
tralians against England in the second great test
match. Name ?
An Adelaide clergyman complains that the
churches are not feeding their flocks aright, and a
young woman at Kilburn died recently after eat-
ing 12 buns at a Sunday-school tart-scramble.
The N.Z. school children sent £5O to the
London School Board last year for distribution
amongst the pauper children of London, and this
year they have sent £25 along for the same
purpose.
owner of a N. Y. foot race track offered
the total profits of a day’s racing to the Sisters of
Charity, but they, by direction of their bishop,
declined to take the money. Bishops, like most
other fat men, don’t like running.
Mr. Walter Hall's interest In Mount
Morgan gold-mine is, according to market values,
worth at least a million and a half sterling. His
brother, Mr. “ Tom ” Hall’s, share in the same
magnificent property stands at over three millions
sterling.
The young Imperial tyke who now rules
Germany has just declared, in unveiling a statue
of Prince Frederick Charles, that Germany, witli
her 18 army-corps and 42,000,000 of people, would
{refer death in battle to the surrender of Alsace-
jorraine.
We read in an English paper that the new
Australian flagship, Orlando, “is a failure in one
important respect. The normal temperature of
her boiler and engine-rooms is between 160 and
170 degrees. Of course this would be simply un-
bearable in a tropical climate,”
Nat. Levi, the hero of a hundred election
fights, and one of the hardest nails at a bargain,
admits that he actually cried on witnessing Miss
Von Finkelstein as Rebekah parting from her son
Jacob. Just think of that! But, now we come to
think of it ourselves, the. Levites always weep at
“parting.”
Miss Essie Jenyna is farewelling at Mel-
bourne Princess’. It is understood that she
returns to Sydney “for a rest” ere proceeding
home. It takes Miss Jenyns a long while to say
good-bye. But where is the man who would not
like to take a long while in saying goodbye to
Miss Jenyns ?
Mr. Joseph Symes and Mr. Thomas
Walker have been addressing rival branches of the
Australian Secular Association in Melbourne. A
curious fact in connection with this split in the
Secular camp is that the name of the secretary of
the more virulent of the two associations happens
to be Love —John Love.
A few days ago a Tumberumba publican
sent a parcel of supposed silver ore to a Sydney
assayer to be tested, and this is the reply he re-
ceived by telegram, “ collect ” : “ Samples yielded,
lead, a trace; silver, nil; any amount of sulphur.
Don’t dig any lower. You must be close to hell ”
We have read something like this before.
It is stated that about 1000 pedestrians,
with their trainers, get a living in and about
Sydney out of the running “game.” In other
words, about 1,000 pedestrians, by not running
too fast every time, get a living for themselves
and make little fortunes for their “ trainers ” and
or about 2,000 bookmakers.
Lately a Brisbane sinner stole a pair of
pants and before he had got away half-a-mile a
constable named Trunks ran him in. Thus does
Providence move in a mysterious way its wonders
to perform. If he had taken a pair of boots the
chances are that, just as he sat down to gloat over
his ill-gotten gains, he would have been swamped
by a policeman called Socks.
Says a Sydney Foreign-trade journal :
“ Prince Bismarck knows how to fulfil his duties of
Chancellor without neglecting the safe management of
his private fortune. It will surprise many readers to hear
that this great statesman is also one of the shrewdest
business men in Germany,”
This, when read in N.S.W., is one of the most in-
genuous things imaginable.
Very recently the N.S.W, Orange lodges
quietly admitted to their ranks an ex-Papist who,
witha view to political advancement, abjured the
errors of Romanism and placed himself under the
aegis of King Billy. The yellow boys are now, it
is said, so suspicious as to the bona-fides of their
new comrade that they make it their business to
personally see that he eats meat three times every
Friday.
Dr. John Frazer Ewan, who died the other
day at Harwich, England, was formerly of Sydney,
N.S.W., where his brother, Mr. James Ewan,
and his brother-in-law, Hon. James Watson, still
live. The circumstances attending Dr. Ewan’s
death were, we are told, of a highly suspicious
character, but, in consequence of the body being
at once forwarded by steam-boat to Australia, no
post-mortem examination was made in England.
R.C. Priest (loq.) : “Michael Sweeney,
Mrs. O’Flaherty tells me you stole her favourite
pig. Did you ? ” Michael Sweeney : “ Faith Oi
did, yer riverence, and I ate it.” R.C. P. :
“Well, what will you say to Mrs. O’Flaherty
when you meet her in the presence of the
Almighty?” Sweeney (penitently): “ And will
the pig be there, too? ” Priest: “ Faith it will.”
Sweeney: “ Thin, yer Riverince, I’ll say, ‘Mrs.
O’Flaherty there’s yer pig, ye can have it.’ ”—Ex-
change.
In the report of the match between Cam-
bridge University and the Australians the Field
provides each of the home team a “Mr.” and
omits that prefix when referring to any of the
Australians, In short, the Field considers the
colonial team professionals, and yet furnishes W.
G. Grace, the highest paid cricketer in the world,
and W. W. Read, each with a “ Mr.” The former
received £l5OO when he came here, and the last
trip of W. W. Read to Australia cost the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club considerably more than “a
thou ” The Field is a charmingly consistent
paper.-—Sydney Sporting Like.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
HOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIFS.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery;
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Prankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horse* and ImKjfie* for bite.
Pepper
And
Salt
Rev. Dr, Bevan, of Melbourne, has taken
d new departure by praying for “ all writers ”
(press and otherwise) as well as for the Royal
families, and all who are plit in authority oVer
ils. In a reVerent spirit we are nOw twanging
the lyre :
In reference to Charles Lawrence, who
killed his three children and himself at Adelaide
last week, a writer in a Sydney paper says: “ The
man must have been temporarily insane, as the
deed was methodically carried out, and had evi-
dently been done in a deliberate manner.” Per-
haps psychological objections to this will run
better in verse :
We see that our esteemed evening contem-
porary, the Australian Star, is making efforts
to produce breezy reports of the proceedings in
the Sydney Police Courts. We would like to put
them in the way of success, so we volunteer some
examples;—
melancholy oration on undiscovered coal, volun-
teered to point out a place where members would
find an abundant supply of natural gas :
The best joke ever heard in the Victorian
Assembly was thrown off last week quite by acci-
dent. Temperance Vale, in the course of a
“I asked the courteous manager, Mr. Walker;
of the Grand Coffee Palace, if temperance people
were enthusiastic patrons of his establishment.
TOLD HIM TO WAIT.
MISSUS: “DID ANYONE CALL DURING MY ABSENCE, BRIDGET?”
BRIDGET: “YES, MUM, THERE DID. A BEGGAR CAME TO THE DOOR FOR
SOMETHING TO AIT; HE SAID HE HAD NOTHING TO AIT FOR
TWO DAYS.”
MISSUS: “WELL, AND DID YOU GIVE HIM SOMETHING?”
BRIDGET: “NO, MUM; AS YOU WASN’T HOME, I TOLD HIM TO CALL
NEXT WEEK!”
‘I should think not,’ said he, ‘they are our
poorest support.’”—“Huron,” in Melbourne.
Now, why should a question so simple be asked ?
We all know that the zealots of Temperance try,
As they cannot well drink, unless carefully
masked,
To smell the sweet nectar of James Hennessy,
And therefore they look for an aged hotel,
Where up through the flooring the luscious
fumes rise,
And at midnight they sprawl to a crevice and
smell
Till the vapour intoxicates noses and eyes.
Their vow is to buy not the poison or sell it,
But nothing forbids them to lovingly smell it!
Rev. Principal Grant, of Queen’s College,
Canada, is an Imperial Federationist, but has an
original cast of mind notwithstanding. On the
question of direct cable communication between
Canada and New Zealand he puts his ideas thus
to a Dunedin audience :
“ Two brothers left home. One went west from
Britain. He travelled 120 deg. Another started east to
New Zealand. He travelled ISOdeg. east. There was
only 60deg. between them with a little latitude to the
south. Well, one brother wanted to cable to the other.
What did he do ? Did he cable across this GOdeg, ? No,
he cabled round the 300 deg. Was this wise ? ”
On the question of a penny postage between Great
Britain and the colonies he is equally cogent. He
points out that a half-ounce of frozen mutton can
be sent home for the tenth part of a farthing and
cannot see why a letter should cost 6d. As a
lecturer the Rev. Grant should be a success.
Speaking aa chairman of a political banquet
at Cairns, N.Q., and in proposing the toast of
the “Press” Meston said: “We have in the
Sydney Morning_ Herald the largest newspaper
in the world, and in the Sydney Bulletin by far
the wittiest and most brilliant. (Great applause.)
Not only the wittiest but also one of the manliest
and most purely patriotic of the journals of the
present day ; a paper that exerts a far-reaching
and beneficial influence on Australian thought as
a merciless exposure of imposture and annihilator
of shams.” (Loud cheers.) Therefore despite our
innate modesty we seize the hand of the crocodile-
slayer across the intervening space and, exclaiming
“hooray!” several times, we request him to come
over the way.
Western Australia. Send for plans of Perth
Land to Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96
Bathurst street, Sydney.
TO ALL Writers.
O ! Brethering, who all do write
(And frequently do wrong),
Be sure you sing with main and might
The chorus to our song.
Though in a church (as you’re aware)
The press are seldom seen,
You’re now included in the prayer
For Bertie and the Queen.
And, thanks to Dr. Bevan,
We shall find a place in Heaven—
“ Think of that!”
The Doctor , doesn’t draw a line,
He doesn’t pick and choose,
He even pleads for aid Divine
For writers on the Noose ;
And those who do the leaders for
The Argus, yea, forsooth ;
They’ll sit around the Golden Shore
And learn to tell the truth.
Men may get to life eternal
Through the Town anD Country JOURNAL—
Think of that!
The Sydney Morning Herald staff
Will possibly be there ;
The chaps who work the Telegraph
For plumage can prepare.
And (though a proof of “ratting ” mean
Appears on every page)
Along with Bertie and the Queen
They shove the Melbourne Age,
And the Doctor’s supplication
Covers e’en the Australasian —
Think of that!
But, members of the Fourth Estate,
This warning, prithee, heed :
St. Peter will be at the gate
To criticise your screed ;
And many a pressman’s guilty soul
St. Peter won’t let in;
He’ll say “You never wrote, but stole
Bits from the Bulletin,
Not on prigs did Dr. Bevan
Call a blessing down from Heaven.”
Think of that!
This ethical scribe says a man is insane
Because he was able to do his work well;
Then it follows that he who’s unable to tell
The beginning or end of his plan has a brain,
That madness may’ve menaced, but menaced in
vain.
But where’s this we are, if such sayings be true ?
Is reason the gift of the bungler who thwarts
The conception he fashions, by making the parts
Misfit each the other one all the way through ?
If true, then we’ve no end of madmen in view !
Insane ’tis to think of a deed that will pain,
But sane ’tis to hold all the plan so in hand
That at last the conception accomplished will
stand;
Insane ’tis to meditate murder, insane
’Twere besides to make blunders that make the
plan vain.
“RUNNING THE RULE.”
A bushman came to the sinful city,
And drank as only a bushman can ;
Then he wandered away to the Park so pretty
And slept; nor cared he for any man.
But two Park loafers his steps had numbered,
And went through him carefully while he slum-
bered ;
And what does it profit them now that they’re
“lumbered,”
And gone for a ride in the prison van ?
“LANGUAGE.”
The moon was full in the cloudless heavens,
The tide was full on the sunless seas.
But “ Foul-mouthed Johnson,” alias Evans,
Was a good deal fuller than either of these.
So he lifted up his voice and he “ sworded,”
But the evident joy his remarks afforded
Was somewhat damped when the clerk recorded
“Two pounds, with the option of fourteen
days.”
Did we not know you, Vale, alas !
We’d think you meant to flout ’em ;
To smell a fine supply of gas
They’ve but to sniff about ’em.
And ne’er a man with common “ nous ”
A theme like yours to master,
Dare strike a match inside the House,
For fear of a disaster.
Why, when they rise to make a speech,
Or sit at ease a-gaping
(This is a solemn fact), from each
The gas is then escaping ;
Debates begin, proceed, and close
In wild unmeaning chatter,
But all that gas it never throws
A light Upon the matter.
The Brickbat.
[Stung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington.] .
A German of great intellectual scope and
vast research has recently published an exhaustive
paper on the Australian boomerang. The subject
is onfe which has beexi much neglected owing to
the hurried Way in which the ankious inquirer has
hitherto been compelled to get out of the way of
the object of his consideration, and the author
throws various new lights upon it and presents it
in aspects that it never owned before. Among
other things he states that (literal translation)
“ The reason of the dome-back-again-froni-the-plaoe-it-
was-throwiiativeness of this curious weapon is that the
inner side of Her is shaved thinly with a view to turn-
aroutidativenees which He—always it being kept in mind
that she gyrates upon, to us, an axis not being hi the way
of being understood—invariably obeys as a cosmic—to us
hidden and perhaps never-to-be-wanted-on-the-voyage—
law. This law is the law that rales the planets.”
This aspect of the case never struck us before,
and the overwhelming probableness of it as it
rises on the mental horizon makes us wonder
that we didn’t devote ourselves to the subject
earlier. But, after all, there is only one white
man extant who can comprehend the fathomlessness
of the Australian boomerang, and we draw Mr.
Horace Baker’s attention to this problem and in-
quire what he thinks of it. This gentleman is
accustomed to relieve the ceaseless grind of his
appointment on the Picturesque Atlas —whose
chief engraver he is—by shying boomerangs in
the Sydney Domain* and he has brought the art
to such perfection that he can fire a boomerang
into Waverley and it will return via North Shore
and graze his own back hair. Now and then a
lost, lorn nigger passes by and stares aghast at
the , white man who can wipe him out with his
own implement, and then the untutored son of
the desert comes up and says “poor pfeller, gib
it sixpence.” Mr. Baker now possesses some hun-
dreds of weapons whittled out of all sorts of tim-
ber, and if he could be persuaded to throw his
boomerang on behalf of some deserving charity
the takings would be stupendous. The Sydney
Domain, however, is not a good place to practise
in. At times as many as six dogs chase one
boomerang and begin to chew it, and the talented
owner is compelled to pursue them and haul them
off by the tail, thus bringing the show to a stand-
still. On other occasions a policeman stands in
the way and gets his uniform torn by a man who
is three-quarters of a mile too far away to be run
in, and sometimes a Lancer strays in the road and
is suddenly demolished and reduced to a heap of
mounted catsmeat. We offer these remarks in a
thoroughly dispassionate spirit, as we never throw
the boomerang ourselves, A large, ferocious dog
and a brick form a military outfit which has never
yet failed us in the hour of need, and We fill the
festive bowl with kerosene and drink to the
primitive weapons of our forefathers and to our
forefather himself, the ancient British savage
painted blue who gnawed his raw chop in a cave
and founded an empire on which the sun never
sets. He hadn’t anything in particular to do with
the case, but he is lugged in that we may get a
chance of alluding to the aforesaid empire
and the above-mentioned sun. Probably our
undressed ancestor who shivered oil the lee
side of a boulder in the spring, and
the equally undressed Australian who dusted
across the desert on his large dirty feet, looking in
vain for a patch of cool shade in a thirsty land,
started life with equal advantages, but as the
white man rose the coloured brother sunk until a
great gulf divides them and—but we will hold
this subject over for future meditation. Perhaps
when the sun looks down upon Sydney in the broil-
ing summer of 270,876 a.d , a copper-coloured
lord of the soil, eight feet high, and dressed in
cloth-of-gold, may be throwing a boomerang
weighing two tons and armed with a torpedo at
one end and a flash of lightning at the other
where Government House now stands, while the
last of the white Australians stands by in the
shivers of a bell-topper and a necklace of jam-tins
and tries to negotiate an advance of sixpence in
Yolapuk. And if he does we are prepared to bet
that he won’t get it. History is full of poetic
vengeance, and nations come down in turn with a
dull, sickening whop, and the dusty chroniclers of
the day gather up their remains in a bottle and
put them away for future reference. Then their
successors gaze on the bottled ruins and snort.
Sometimes, too, the historian forgets to put in the
cork, and then even the memory of the lost em-
pire evaporates, and its place is left a blank. And
here a sad foreboding comes over our soul that
future ages may leave the cork out of our own re-
mains, and that 200,000 years hence the Australian
nation may vanish out of the halls of remembrance
and its boomerang be chopped up small to light the
fire with.
* * *
A Melbourne paper has given way of late
to unwonted excitement over the importation of
American patent medicines, and it demands in
grief-stricken accents that somebody should do
something to crush the accumulating horrors of
the trade in the bottled water that the pigs’-feet
were boiled in. And meanwhile its advertising
columns set forth as usual that unless you get up
in the middle of the night and rush out and get a
four-and-sixpenny bottle of Dr. Hogblaster’s Cow
Exasperator, the chances are that you won’t live
till morning; and long, half-column notices rise
up to ask if you wash your feet before going to
bed, and, if so, are you aware that unless you use
Professor Biggerwhoop’s Secluded Corn Scare the
results may be fatal at any moment ? Also, do
you supply your dog regularly with Billing’s
Curse of Leviticus, and, if not, are you fully
aware of the tremendous mental and moral re-
sponsibilities attached to your position? Don’t
you feel well, young man, and what are your
views upon the liver in the spring ? Furthermore,
Boshemiter’s Hair Raiser and Scalp Infuriator is
the best thing for baldness, and will produce
moustaches on the butter and put long ringlets in
the soup. And meanwhile the editor whoops in
small print about the cussedness of American
patept medicines and asks that they should be
crushed by the club of infamy and hewn asunder
by the hoe of public scorn, and close behind his
admonition a little paragraph draws attention to
Gosh’s Balm of Gilead and Premonitory Corn in
Egypt at 13s. (id. a bottle.
* * *
In a little Victorian town lately a man
got drunk and fell into a creek, breaking two of
his ribs. As he crawled out he found a large
nugget, and he has now forsworn beer and started
business with the proceeds. If he had been a
sober, pious man who did not fall about drunk he
would never have found that nugget and would
probably have remained poor and respectable to
the end of his days. The Scripture states in
touching language that it has never seen the
seed of the righteous begging bread, but
they generally have to bustle like old boots
for weak tea and hard cheese. More-
over, the promise does not cover coal and
rent and clothes, and if the righteous have bread
but are forced to go out with nothing on but their
piety their lot is not a happy one. And speaking
of this reminds us that one of the richest men in
the neighbourhood of Ballarat (Vic,) made his
first start in life by whaling his wife. Twelve
years ago he was a cursing sinner in low circum-
stances and possessed of only one pair of patched
pants. He was fond of drink and gambling, and
used to swear loudly and fiercely over seven-up,
and one cold night, finding himself possessed of
£7, he sat down and “blewed ” the lot by a fatal
tendency to go nap on the queen and three
small trumps. Then, being urged on by
the devil, he remembered that his patient
suffering wife had £5 saved up, and walk-
ing home he welted the poor little woman
with a big strap till she broke down and sur-
rendered her hoard. With this new capital he
went back and broke the whole crowd of diggers,
and about 5 a.m. he reeled home and kicked the
whole house to shivers in his fiendish glee, and
scared his wife into a fit and then scared her out
of it again, and finally dumped down £.370 as the
wages of sin and went to sleep. He is now worth
some hundreds of thousands and his wife has
about £50,000 invested in her own name, and
when they give an entertainment in their gilded
halls and the lady, who is still comparatively
young and rather pretty, appears in evening dress
and diamonds, he generally takes the opportunity
to tell a confidential friend how he whacked her
till she was nearly dead on the night when he
made his first rise. And yet many a man who
never thrashed a woman in all his life is left with-
out a cent and has to scuffle at the back door of
the ungodly for donations of old boots. Somehow
the old copy-book maxims want to be boiled down
afresh and re-varnished.
The Argus has come down to publishing
“In Memoriam” rhymes. A recent issue con-
tained an assortment of pcems contributed by the
various relatives of a little girl who was called
away at the early age of 3i : . The lamented child’s
brother-in-law actually chipped in with a poem.


I have found Hr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nbllik Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown.
Obtainable (rone all Chemists Take no substitute ■
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-whits Patbnt
80W.su Pf>Ooß. and you* bread ed'l he «« uehite %“ ww
Western Australia. Send for plans of Perth
Land to Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd., 9fi
Ihithiirsb street. Sydney.
Personal Items.
Robert Brough is 32.
Sara Bernhardt’s father committed suicide.
Meston, the crocodile-slayer, thinks of
c niiing South.
In the German Reichstag there are 338
smokers and 3t» non-smokers,
M. Bavelot, the lately-deceased Victorian
aitist, left £7400 behind him.
Edison has invented a talking doll. Let
him keep it. We have women enough.
The bones of Daniel Henry Deniehy are
to be dragged down to Sydney this week.
Hon. James White is very seriously un-
well—from a heart-affection, it is understood.
Princess Beatrice will shortly inflict
another princeling on the British public purse.
Ex-President Grcvy’s sister has just died,
after 30 years’ confinement in a lunatic asylum.
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie’s other name is Annie
Bad ley Frost. A lot of people were badly bitten.
James Squire Parnell, sometime Premier
of N.S. Wales, is said to be hopelessly ill of general
paralysis.
A Melbourne bookmaker has named one
of his racehorses after a local footballer. This is
too much.
The European Mail says : “ The member
for Australia, Mr. Henniker Heaton, has been
seriously ill.”
Queen Victoria says she’ll smile no more.
This is as it should be. The British taxpayer has
left off smiling for years.
Her Majesty Queen Victoria is said to be
suffering from insomnia. We always thought the
old lady was remarkably wide awake.
Minister Abigail says the cates of office
are so great that he can scarcely call a single
“minute” his own. Abigail’s “minutes” never
were his own.
Mr. J. Jackson, a pioneer squatter of the
Wagga WaggafN.S.W.) District, has just died.
He took up Boree Station 50 years ago, and held
it to the last.
Illustrative of times that were. We find
that in 1834 one Edward Rielly had his ticket-of-
leave cancelled for repeated drunkenness while
confined in gaol for debt.
A well-known member of the N.S.W.
Assembly never drinks but is an inveterate smoker
of cigars which cost him lOd. wholesale. 1 )uring
the last 10 years he has puffed away a fortune.
When the Duke of Marlborough was the
other week married to an American income of
£30,000 a year by Mr. Hewitt, the Mayor of New
York, the Mayor “ kissed the bride in accordance
with custom.”
At the recent Townsville (Q.) Sessions,
Judge Noel told the jury they would not get any
lunch till they agreed, and intimated that their
verdict would be “all the more merciful for a
little fasting.”
Fergus Hume has told an interviewer that
“The Mystery of a Hansom Cab” was written
when he was ill and hard-up, and that, under
altered conditions, he hopes to do better with his
new work, “Madame Midas.”
Sir Hercules Robinson has made £150,000
out of a diamond-mine speculation, and is
anxious to give up his appointment at the Cape.
A certain Australian Governor, by the way, has
just landed £20,000 in a land-deal.
Mr. John Meagher, J.P., of Bathurst,
who recently gave the English footballers so right
royal a welcome, is said to have commenced an
election address once with, u Ladies and Min.
He knew his audience, but it lost him the election.
The late Mr. George Rouse, of Baaudesert,
near Mhdgee, N. S. W., was a native of the colony,
his father, Richard, having arrived in Sydney by
the ship Nile in 1801. He died in 1852 at 78 years,
his wife, Elizabeth, having died 12 years pre-
viously at 70,
Whilst the Victorian Premier was being
shown through the model dairy at the Centennial
Exhibition the other day, the lid flew off one of
the churns and Duncan was bombarded with
lumps of butter. The election is pending ;it will
be eggs next.
As an addendum to The Bulletin’s recent
paragraph on the ex-Chief Justice of N.S.W. it
may be added that of the three judges Sir Alfred
Stephen left behind him on the Bench, two are
now dead and the third has retired and gone
to England a confirmed invalid.
There is a popular R.C. clergyman in
Sydney now who is given away by his name,
which is Father Tuckwell. Victoria holds a
Protestant divine named Grubhardt. _ A porridge-
eating contest between these two divines ought to
rake in more spoil than a church bazaar or a fancy
fair.
The Stock-Keeper, a London print de-
voted to cocks and hens and other live stock,
alludes to an export of game fowls as having been
sent out by “ Major C. A. W. Lett, an Australian
gentleman well known in connection with the
Press, and principally with boating affairs.
Major Lett!
Lord William Neville has commenced
business in London as a wine and spirit merchant.
When in Melbourne as a guest of Governor Lpch
his Lordship, who is a ’vert to the R.C. faith,
attended St. Patrick’s regularly, and was under-
stood to be studying for the priesthood. However,
he is in the spiritual line, anyhow.
David Buchanan was blamed last week
for quoting passages of his own writing as ex-
tracts from the works of an unknown but able
■controversalist. If true, even then David would
not be original. It is a matter of history that
Thomas Carlyle played that game for many years
and Clarence Mangan and Father Prout gave
■their best work to the public in that fashion.
A well-known poetess believes that her
-genius for poetry is due to the fact that her mother
read a volume of poems a short time before she
i(the poetess) was born. In other words, she be-
lieves in pre-natal influence. So do we. Just
before Douglas Sladen was born a dog-house, fell
•upon his uncle. And to-day the nephew writes
the greatest doggerel ever scribbled outside of a
Government office.
Of the Royal Commissioners appointed
■immediately after the fight at Eureka Stockade in
1854, to enquire into the management of the Vic-
torian goldfields, only one remains in the flesh,
Mr. William Westgarth, the President, who is
now revisiting the colony after an absence of 30
years. The others—John O’Shannssy, John
Pascoe Fawkner, James Ford Strachan, and John
Hodgson—are under the daisies.
United States Consul Griffin took the
chair at a lecture on “American Humour” the
other evening in Sydney. This is about the most
humorous thing Consul Griffin ever did in his life.
It is the most humorous thing that ever happened
in the world since the pre-historic man made his
first joke. Death proposing the bride’s health at
a marriage feast or a newly-married pair spending
their honeymoon in a sarcophagus is nothing to it.
An item of interest to John Smith. The
titles of works written by various members of the
Smith family fill ten whole volumes of the
catalogue of the British Museum Library. Toe
Smiths have written 2000 volumes, and the record
of their literary achievements is twice as long as
that of Brown, Jones, and Robinson put together.
Indeed, the Smith entries are so numerous that
they have had to be supplied with a special index
to Smith, which fills an entire volume.
Queen Victoria’s third daughter, the
Princess Christian (Helena at baptism), who is
alleged to have become a Roman Catholic, is 42
years of age and the mother of five children. As
the Guelphs have very few brains, it really
matters very little about their theological opinions,
and the chief effect of the present ’version will
merely be to set the Freeman’s Journal cock-a-
whoop and to make the Sydney Protestant
Standard’s next few leading articles terribly
sultry.
“Mr. Chamberlain is suffering from a sharp
attack of gout.”— S. M. Herald correspondence.
Joe Chamberlain, we pity thee,
This gout is hard to bear;
Thy friends must melt in tears to see
Thee propped thus in thy chair.
Bub yet ’twas plain when thou didst go
A-dining with the lords
That thou wouldst taste the bitter woe
That Nemesis awards.
And so in politics thou’lt find,
Although “ Go on !” they shout,
That when thou’st satisfied thy mind,
Thy end will be “ Go out!”
In a Melbourne Directory for 18(!8, under
the head of “Municipal—Brighton,” appears the
following:—“Rate-collector and Inspector of
Nuisances, Mr. Thomas Bent.” This gentleman
is now leader of the Opposition in the Victorian
Parliament, into which he pained entrance by de-
feating the present Chief Justice, George Higin-
botham, for Brighton. Mr. Bent has also been a
Minister of the Crown, and is reputedly worth
ELECTRIC PH° EH e C°
MR C. HADDON CHAMBERS.
(See page 6.)
hundreds of thousands of pounds. When Mr.
Bent —whose recovery from a recent severe illness
was the occasion of sincere congratulations from
personal friends and political foes was Minister
for Public Works, many thought that, being a man
of humble origin, he could be imposed upon with
impunity. One individual, having business with
the Minister, did try it on, and failing to impose
upon Mr. Bent, made some not very complimen-
tary observations in re latter’s former occupa-
tion. Tom declared that, Minister or not, he
would be insulted by no man, and with a view to
there and then “taking it out” of his msulter,
doffed his coat. His interviewer took fright and
bolted out of the office-door, down the steps, and
up Latrobe-street, with Minister Bent, bare-
headed and coatless, in hot pursuit. The fugitive
is said to have eluded his pursuer by dodging into
Rigby’s, at the corner of Lonsdale-street, while
Bent returned to the Works Offics satisfied that
he had at least endeavoured to avenge his wounded
honour.
The annual profits of the three leading
brewing firms of the world are: Guinness,
£450,000; Bass, £340,000; Allsopp, £204,000.
Every convicted man in Hongkong is
weighed j ust before going to his cell. When his
sentence expires he is to weigh exactly the same.
If this be not the case, the whole of the officials
are censured.
That facetious little paper, the Sydney
Echo, had an article the other day headed “Boy
Inventors.” We didn’t read the thing, but we
presume it was a biographical sketch of our first
parents. They were the first to invent boys, and
they raised Cain when they were Abel to do so.
(This was sent to us on a sheet of note-paper
headed “Colonial Secretary’s Department.”)
POLITICAL
POINTS
David Gaunson says : “ Corruption is only
coalition writ large.”
Even theS. M. Herald confesses that Free
trade will not bring back prosperity to N.S.W.
In Bathurst (N.S.W.), represented by
Foreign-trade Cortis, there are 200 empty houses.
Thirteen millions have been spent on the
Queensland Railways, which only return 2 1-7 per
cent.
Mr. J. P. Abbott is “retiring” from
N.S.W, political life. This mysterious move
means something or other.
Haynes says the Italians are worse than
Chinamen. That is easily accounted for as far as
Haynes is concerned. The Pope is an Italian.
The public debt per head of Queensland
is now greater than that of any of the other Aus-
tralian colonies and even greater than that of N.Z.
The holding of an exhibition in connec-
tion with the Engineering Association of New
South Wales has been postponed for two years—
pending the inauguration of a Protectionist policy.
The Royal Commission on Education in
England has pronounced in favour of state aid to
denominational schools and denominational train-
ing colleges. Fourteen voted for and eight
against the report.
Abigail is reported to have said at Gunne-
dah that “a wave of prosperity was passing over
the country.” “ Uncle ” probably spoke in his
capacity as a “bank” director. When trade lan-
guishes the money-lenders flourish.
A London dally says;—“lt is our busi-
ness to see that those who leave our shores shall
be no more loss to us, but simply be as though
they had gone to a neighbouring town.” This is
the Foreign-trade question in a nutshell.
Two more N.S.W. Parliamentary conver-
sions to Protection are announced. Messrs.
Crouch and Fitzgerald have declared for the
coming creed to their constituents. Parkes will
very likely yet lead a Protectionist Ministry.
Thirteen thousand quarters of Australian
wheat sold in London at 355. ',)d. per quarter.
This is about 100,000 bushels at 4s. fid. per bushel.
Of course, none of it was grown in N.S.W. The
mother-colony doesn’t raise enough for its home
consumption.
Mr. Adrian, of Patrick’s Plains (N.S.W.),
proposes that the discussion of political questions
should be carried on in the newspapers and else
where outside the House, and that members,
when they meet in Parliament, should merely
vote A plebiscite would be more practical.
It is said that Sir Thomas Henry Grattan
Esmond, Bart, M.P. for South Dublin, Mr. T. D,
Sullivan, M.P. for the College Green Division and
ex-Lord Mayor of Dublin, and Mr. John Dillon,
M.P. for East Mayo, all members of the Irish
National Party, will leave for Australia in No-
vember to explain Home Rule to the colonies.
Baron de Worms, who is some kind of an
important grub in the British Tory Cabinet, re-
ports that he has carefully overhauled the existing
treaties between England and China, and that
they are all one-sided arrangements by which any
number of Englishmen may go to China while the
Chinaman receives no particular right to go any-
where at all. This is bully for Worms.
The European Mail wants to know how
many copies of the Centennial issue of the Sydney
Morning Herald Parkes’ friend, Mr. W. H.
Leighton Bailey, took home. Mr. Bailey de-
livered something like a dozen lectures, the at-
tendances at which ranged at between 600 and
100 persons, and each person got a copy. The
Bulletin will here add another question—Who
paid for these papers ? This will afford a nice
little subject for investigation when the N.S.W.
Parliament meets.
“ Do you know,” said Premier Parkes id
the children at the Hamilton (N.S.W.) school the
othe: day, “ I am perfectly sure there can be no
great human character with the love of truth who
would not sacrifice everything in the world rather
than tarnish the truth it clung to.” Thiicaipe
with particularly good grace from the leader of a
Government which has broken every pledge it
gave on taking office.
Sir Henry Parkes thus orated to the
people of Hamilton : “About 100 years ago, in
the year 1786, a man was born, named George
Birkbeck, and two years afterwards, just ICO
years ago next month, another man was born,
named Henry Brougham.” This is oratory
couched in didactic measure. The point it imme-
diately raises, however, is whether there were not
more than two men born between 1786 and 1788.
What will be done with the European
goods now in the Melbourne Exhibition ? The
fear that they will be thrown at half prices on the
Sydney market is by no means groundless. If
the owners do not take them back to Europe they
must pay duty in Melbourne or carriage to Syd-
ney. The latter is the less expensive. Hence
N.S.W. has not only lost all the good of the
Centennial Exhibition, but will have to bear all
the evil. Five le roi Parkes !
Premier Parkes declines to appoint a
Minister of Lands, and continues to administer
the department himself. He says that on the
ground of economy he considers the country lucky
in getting the business done for nothing. Very
well, retorts Dr. Creed, M.L C., why not dismiss
all the Ministry and let Parkes do the business of
the country himself? Not being sordid, he would
require no additional pay, and his present col-
leagues “ never would be missed.”
“ Zachary Pearce Pocock ” rears up in the
S. M. Herald to enquire “ why the Queen’s head
should be wiped off the N.S.W. postage-stamp.”
But even the fervent loyalty of a Pocock must
pale its ineffectual fires beside that of another in-
spired Jingo writing to the S.M.H. on the same
subject. Tie rather likes the new stamps, because
—but hear him : “ Who of us has not felt, when
accidentally affixing the Queen’s head topsy-turvy
to a letter, that he has unintentionally offered an
insult to royalty f’
Protection is making great strides in Eng-
land, but, unfortunately, the only people who at
present benefit by it are not the workmen but the
distillers. Ten million gallons of intoxicating
drink were exported from England to the Niger
district alone in a single year, hence legislation is
careful not to interfere in the cause of morality
with so paying an industry. The other day a negro
chief made a pathetic appeal to the British Resi-
dent on behalf of his countrymen who were being
destroyed wholesale by drinking gin, yet the Eng-
lish conscience remains as case-hardened and
callous in this direction —in the interests of what
is called British trade —as that of the coldest-
blooded murderer who stifles the shrieks of his
victim with a wet towel. When, however, a story
comes from South America that whole villages of
Indians had been poisoned by strychnine a thrill
of horror runs throughout the length and breadth
of the British Empire. There’s a lot of money in
gin, hence it is protected. “ Vested privileges ”
in the strychnine trade are limited.
A Prolonged Existence.
Death was nob man’s inheritance, but life !
Earth was intended fpr a paradise of bliss,
Unfading beauty, and eternal spring,
Till sin invited dire disease into the world.
“ No nation can be truly great unless its people
be healthy and happy, both socially and morally,”
remarks a modern writer ; and similar sentiments
have been expressed by the philosophers of all
ages, even if we turn back to the most ancient
people. ‘ ! A sound mind can but dwell in a sound
body,” said the ancient Roman. To be successful
in life men must purify their system before the
mind can have its action in motion, and rise equal to
tne battle of life. The fervid preacher of the
Gospel, the eloquent advocate of liberty, the
mariner exposed to the storm, the mechanic bent
double in his workshop, all are liable to invasion
of disease. Were ready means taken to re-invigor-
ate the system whenever its powers a,re felt to be
on the decline, disease could not invade the citadel
of life. Yet often, when one dies of physical
transgression, when a timely course of medicine
would have prevented the inroad of disease, and
prolonged life, we hear it proclaimed from the
sacred desk that the death is “ providential. ”
Aye, a serious mistake, for it lulls people into
security, and instead of arousing, quiets their
fears. It is true that the science of medicine has
nob always kept progress with the march of ci\ il-
isation. In this very age all seem to be running a
race—from the infant to the matured individual—
as to who shall first reach the grave ! But this
rock in our nation’s pathway has been observed,
and has led to the adoption of more vigorous
measures, among which the “Warner’s Sate
Remedies ” take a leading place. That firm’s
famous liver and kidney specific —the “ Warner’s
Safe Cure ’’—has by this time won such a general
reputation, due to the fact that it is the only
known cure for complicated kidney complaints,
and Bright’s disease. Its great efficacy is borne
out by a great number of strong and distinguished
testimonials, among which we find many well-
known heralds of the Cross. Among those who
warmly endorse “Warner's Safe Remedies, ” are
the Rev. Walter Roberts, M.A., of Scotland, now
in Brisbane ; Very Rev. Henry Plume, Arch-
deacon of North Queensland ; the widely-known
Rev. Wm. Poole, of Brisbane; the Rev. William
Powell, Methodist minister of Rockhampton; the
Rev. John Robson, of Molong ; the Rev. Rob. S.
Willis, of Manly Beach, Sydney ; the Very Rev.
Dean Mahong, of Penrith; the Rev, William
Campbell, of Dunedin, N. Z. ; the Rev. Ben.
Yanes, of Waikouaiti, N.Z. ; Rev. E. E. Cham
bers, Lyttelton, N.Z. ; Rev. Thomas Brassington,
Clermont, Queensland, Rev. R. Kelly, Yass,
Victoria. Testimonies, coming from such respon-
sible sources must awaken in every reflecting
mind the necessity of looking after our bodily as
well as spiritual health. Every individual inherits
a given amount of physical and mental strength.
We have no right to fritter away and carelessly
dispose of such a glorious inheritance as is strength
of body and energy of brain. Testimonies from
responsible personages, as quoted above, bearing
on the high efficacy of “Warner’s Safe Remed-
ies, ” should show our population the guide to
vigorous health, and open the avenue of attain-
ment of what the good and wise in all ages have
believed in, and what our sacred writings so re-
peatedly promise—a joyous, healthful, and greatly
prolonged existence.


ptw
' y
/&. Lus^-o
2- //c / U y J «
/oot~/r>q ) Tjfc- rfffra,fere. &/-
rfccf" /(L. Xoo/pert*-}? <jf' tyrctO/? /> °y
Ota)p*r- s ftp e^/? )'£
W/Z
A&cS roo'p
4f^~
OJJ - °/ Ar-U^
' k^*S-a^4
j:
« Ct cu&^/U
y l (
nj 7 / - J9' (rf-jr
ty X, </%/tW 0
iuM. tt lk pjts
f***
/3<>r '% r
7« j%pS
_ T
7
?<Mr
/ I'*' &-"J>
/o
S/J/'AuJUUf tuJr (Ko
S(Ujl brr iuuiUM &
l/h riuc o^.
j£-a-
A Boomerang Fiend.


'V,
“Lord Carrington is not going to resign the Governorship of New South Wales.” — S.M. Heiald.
NEW SOUTH WALES: “YOU’RE A VERY PLEASANT FELLOW, BUT PRAY DON’T STOP FOR MY SAKE, YOUR LORDSHIP."


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti-
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “ Essay on Deafness,’’
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, etc., who have been
cured by these Drums, and who recommend them. —Dr.
NICHOLSON, 65 William Street, Melbourne.
SWEET KOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. Gd.,
ss, and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOURNE.
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Perfumery Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on this Scent.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOK
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF'
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H PALING ft CO-, LU,
OEOROE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
Governor Carington has again denied that
he is tired of N.S. W. and thinks of resigning. The
widely-circulated rumour to the contrary has
therefore no more substantial foundation than his
Excellency’s yawn.
» * *
A S.M. Herald correspondent avers that
since the publication of the reports concerning the
.safety of the theatres, anxiety for the welfare of
his family has compelled him to visit these places
of amusement alone which afford ample means
of speedy egress. How will he manage to work
up a scare against drapers’ establishments when
the Spring fashions come in?
* • •
There is in Sydney a place of amusement
which Governor Carington refuses to visit on the
ground that he likes Lady Carington too well to
take her to a place from which, were fire to break
out, her ladyship would have no earthly chance of
escaping.
• • •
Rev. Macartney, of Melbourne, is now in
Sydney. He is the son of the nonagenarian Dean
Macartney, of Victoria, and is a young man who,
if he had his own way, would make life a thing of
beauty. Said he, at Ballarat, the other day :
“Worldliness was at the present time eating the life
out of the Churches. The commandment of God was,
‘Come ye out from among them, and be ye separate.’
He was no enemy to skating on the ice, cricket, &o. Let
young men row, run, wrestle, and swim, and he prayed
that God might bless them in such healthy pursuits.
Those who led sedentaryl ives were generally the most in-
fidel. But while believing in innocent recreation, he
(Mr. Macartney) was particular as to what amusements he
went to. He did not go where he could not take God
with him. For that reason he did not like to go to purely
secular concerts. He also objected to skating rinks.
(Applause.) He thought when the rinks were introduced
that they were going to be a blessing, but he found they
were a curse. They combined all the abominations of.the
theatres, ball-rooms, and low music-halls. (Loud ap-
plause.) As to dancing, Herod’s daughter was bad
enough, but she did not dance with a man’s arm around
her waist.”
Now, the Rev, Macartney objects to skating-rinks
biit he likes to see young men skating on the ice.
Why not young women? And what are we to do
in a country where there is no ice? Perhaps he
really means that people shouldn’t skate till their
blood is frigid and their young emotions have
frozen into blocks of piety. As to “ Herod’s
daughter” being “bad enough,” we take the
liberty of remarking that she wasn’t Herod’s
daughter, but the daughter of Herodias, his
brother Phillip’s wife. Why doesn’t Rev.
Macartney read his Bible ? “ Herod’s daughter
didn’t dance with a man’s arm round her waist.”
Didn’t she ? What modern belle would dance
for a prize of a man’s head in a plate, we should
like to know—or even a clergyman’s head ?
• *
The members of the Queensland Parlia-
ment who visited Melbourne Exhibition have had
their loyalty to the Throne and the representative
of the Sovereign sorely tried. On their return
from Sydney, a special train, with sleeping-car,
was placed at the disposal of about 16 representa-
tives of the masses and some four lady friends.
However, old Tony Musgrave and suite (consist-
ing of Lady M., his aide, his manservant and
maidservant) suddenly changed their minds about
returning to Brisbane in the steamer Lucinda and
decided to use the Parliamentary train. When the
Hawkesbury was crossed the legislators and four
ladies were astonished at finding that his Excel-
lency had “ jumped ” the whole of the sleeping-
car, and would not allow a mother’s son of the
great unwashed (literally) into their presence ; so
legislators and ladies had to camp the best way
they could all through the cold of New England
on cushions placed on hard floors in the guard’s-van,
&c. Nor is this all. At one of the refresh-
ment-rooms on the way, at dinner, the
Governor, his wife, and aide occupied one table,
and at the only remaining one fed the members of
the Assembly, their lady friends, and the Go-
vernor’s servants ! The members felt at peace
with all men when they found the Governor’s
lacqueys nicely washed and shaved in the morn-
ing, looking spick and span, and mentioning in-
cidentally that the night had not been cold, whilst
they had been shivering and groaning, having
tried to sleep in their clothes. This is the sort of
thing that makes us long for more imported Go-
vernors.
e * •
Sir Henry Loch’s hospitality, as it is
called, has been considerably gushed over by
newspapers which forget to mention that the
Governor is merely spending the £6OOO fete money
voted for “hospitable” purposes. Duncan Gillies
and Co. handed that amount of Victorian capital
to His Excellency, who kindly “ blews ” it in
balls and banquets, taking care that D.G. and
Co., receive every inducement, in the form of in-
vitations, to repeat their vote at the earliest
opportunity. All vice-regal hospitality is, of
necessity, run on these lines, and the M.L.A.’s
who provide Governors with special grants of
money are, in effect, inviting themselves and
friends to a few extra feeds and junketings to be
paid by the mvoluntary contributions of a public
who are kept out of the fun by strong bodies of
police. God Save the Queen !
• * •
Says a gushing inkslinger of the softer sex,
in a» Melbourne weekly, describing the appear-
ance of the Gaiety Burlesque fairies at a re-
cent race meeting : “ It was noticeable that, while
they had a large acquaintance among the men,
they were not frequently recognised by the
ladies.” We are going round the corner to give
ourselves a facetious dig in the ribs.
• • i*
In Melbourne a little while ago a certain
well-advertised speculator divorced his wife under
somewhat peculiar circumstances. The circum-
stances under which a man divorces his wife, by
the way, are ordinarily peculiar. And now, after
divorcing her, he has married her again.
* • ♦
Whilst the batch of Australian Governors
were languishing in the circle at the Melbourne
Princess’s the other night, the gallery boys put in
the intervals whistling “Home, Sweet Home.”
But a Governor never takes a hint, worse luck.
* . *
Referring to the vice-regal crowd at the
Exhibition opening, a “sassiety ” writer in a Mel-
bourne paper sadly reports that “ the want of
ardour on the part of the crowds during the entire
proceedings is inexplicable.” Not at all. The
privilege of paying for those gubernatorial gew-
gaws is sufficiently arduous.
* * *
There is no end to the large-heartedness
of Tom Bent, M.L.A., since he arose from his sick
bed. Thomas prowls around seeking whom he
can feed and liquor up, and generally making
friends with the mammon of unrighteousness.
This is a form of repentance which can be
specially recommended to all who are beginning
to think seriously, dear boy.
* * *
That good churchman, Judge Docker (who,
by the way, has just fallen foul of yet another
jury), the other day had before him at Bathurst
a case arising out of a coach-accident, in which a
lady was hurt. The doctor deposed that the
patient had a serious cut on the knee, the mark of
which (said he) she will carry to her grave. “ That
doesn’t matter,” drawled the judge, in his usual
style—“ no one will see it but her husband.” And
the Court, as in duty bound, laughed hilariously,
• •
On Thursday last Mr. Granville Nobbs,
M.L.A., interviewed Premier Parkes re a park
for Bankstown. “A park for Bankstown !” ex-
claimed Sirenree, as he felt his bumble-footed
e e
f ) L V
/ 9&
r<: t'Hoo'C i,
mV s J r^
\
Tj lL jfry
THE “MUCH-TRAVELLED.”
spirit of humour kicking him ; “ why, that’s quite
a Nobby idea, hain’t it?” “Yes,” replied the
interviewer; “call it the Nobby Park(e)s, and
that’ll fix it for posterity.” And these two gigantic
intellects smiled sadly at each other as they
thought what a splendid pair of circus-clowns was
lost in them when they entered the political
instead of the saw-dust and orange-peel arena.
* * *
Among the bequests of a well-known
wealthy citizen of Sydney, who died recently, was
£lOOO to a barmaid of a fashionable hotel.
* * •
We hear that at Lismore (N.S.W.) the
decent people are in a chronic state of astonish-
ment as to why the Executive does not interfere,
concerning the mal-administration of justice in
the Court of Petty Sessions and the disgraceful
scenes which are now an almost every-day occur-
rence, and are sometimes, it is alleged, caused by
an individual who, from his high official position,
ought to show a good example.
* • •
The historic church in Jamieson-street,
Sydney, built in 1823, or thereabouts, by John
Dunmore Lang, and on which it was proposed to
erect a steeple as a monument to the Doctor, has
undergone complete renovation. The old-style
enclosed pews have been removed, with one ex-
ception, and open seats substituted—the ex-
ception being the pew occupied for so many
years by Mrs. Lang and the Doctor, when
the latter was not in the pulpit pul-
verising his opponents. The widow strenuously
opposed any new-fangled notions respecting this
particular pew, and she carried her point. The
old-fashioned, four-sided, cushion-seated pew,
with its table in the centre and a plentiful supply
of soft hassocks for easy worship, remains as a
memorial of the old political war-horse and
minister of religion. Let us hope it will he
allowed to remain there, even as the pew of Dr.
Samuel Johnson remains to this day in the church
of St. Clement Danes.
• • •
The new Melbourne morgue, we regret to
mention, is not open to the public and meantime
all corpses who are run in for “insulting behaviour ”
have to roost in the old ramshackle tenement.
It was confidently expected that Melbourne's
long-felt want would be filled during Exhibition
week at latest, but it will require a big effort to get
all the furniture fixed up by Cup Carnival, when
a large influx of stray suicides is certain. Dead
’uns make dead ’uns, and Death himself rides a
horse which is often as “ stiff as a crutch.”
- a a
A reverend gentleman lecturing the other
day at Christchurch (N.Z ) remarked cheerfully
that “ the popular conception of a minister of the
Gospel set him down as a cross between an old
woman and a mummy.” This frankness was quite
unexpected on his part and the applause which
ensued was tremendous.
* * *
Sydney Smith, who belonged to the cloth,
used to say that when a man was unfit for any-
thing else he should becofne a parson. In the last
century the dullest boy was sent to the church.
And yet our foremost Australian journalists failed
as clergymen !
* * *
Murrumburrah, N.S.W., is a town
notorious for its practical jokers. Quite recently
all the lawyers practising in adjacent towns had
retainers sent them for a certain day at Petty
Sessions. Numbers of the “Devil's Own”
assembled, much to the astonishment each of the
other, some having journeyed miles to turn 'an'
honest penny—only to find the dock occupied by
one deadbeat charged with lush and “language.”
Thereat some of the hoaxed used language very
unbecoming to “gentlemen by Act of Parlia-
ment.”
* * #
The Bible says that “ the glory of a
woman is her hair.” Our opinion is that the
Glory of a woman (with a great big Q) is her Hat.
(N.B.—This is not from one of Miss Finkelstein’s
lectures.)
♦ * *
A London paper remarks with the un-
obtrusive pathos which characterises all great
minds that “since last November two emperors
and three aldermen have passed away.” “And
three aldermen ” is excellent.
* * •
When the daily papers report court cases
wherein persons are sued by usurers from whom
they have borrowed money, details of the trans-
action should, in the public interest, in every case
be given, so that the money-lenders may get
whatever credit or have to endure whatever
odium is fairly attachable to their charges. At
present the journals content themselves by baldly
recording the fact that J. Smith was sued by Mr.
Ohadband Lapstone or by Mr, Solomon Isaac
Abrahams for £26, “money lent with interest,”
but how much money and how much interest no
one ever gets to know, and the consequence is
that many cruel wretches who daily sell the bed
from under little children are allowed to pose as
tolerably decent members of society. The social
position of the professional usurer who tries to
squeeze blood from stones should not be one whit
higher than that of the hangman's assistant; the
man, be he Christian or Jew, who lends money on
household goods at extortionate rates of interest,
and then mercilessly advantages himself of his
legal position, is an enemy to humanity and should
be held up in the pillory.
• • •
At the recent Pan-Anglican Conference,
held in London, the divinely-inspired clerics de-
cided that the Anglican Church ‘ ‘ will not recog-
nise divorce without adultery.” The inference is
that divorce with adultery will be recognised;
therefore, people who may be contemplating
diyorce should carefully see that they have com
plied with the adultery proviso before sending in
their applications. “In a multitude of counsellors
there is wisdom ” —more or less.
• • *
Extract from evidence given at the police*
court by one of the prosecutors of Mrs. Gordon
Baillie:—
“ At the termination of'the interview it was arranged
she should bring her husband to see the place. She then
left in her carriage and pair. Her next visit was with a
gentleman in a carriage, and he was introduced as her
husband. He bad very little to say. He simply wore an
eye-glass and looked on, and only said ‘ yes ’ or ‘no
when she spoke.”
How characteristic of the husband of a “ fine
woman ” !
* * *
The number of “young widows” who ad-
vertise for housekeeper situations is surprising.
The only possible explanation is that the young
widow is a person of experience, and well aware
that when a housekeeper is comely and competent
it is as cheap to marry as to employ her.
• * •
A well-informed London correspondent
(Australasian) has been giving some strange
statistics of the drinking of the English aristo-
cracy. Guests at a party in a country house
always drink an average of a bottle and a quarter
of wine per head per day. Guests at a society
dinner invariably drink one-third of a bottle of
champagne per head ; at a Bohemian party half a
bottle a head, and at a theatrical ball two bottles
a head.
« * *
The Londoner’s proverbial ignorance of
everything that exists outside the New Babylon
appears to be denser than ever. Mr. Justice Kay,
one of England’s shining lights, recently sniffed
scornfully when a counsel mentioned Rotherham,
and wanted to know where the place was. It
was explained to the learned judge that Rother-
ham is a Yorkshire town containing forty thousand
inhabitants, at which information Kay frowned
wisely and thought it was strange he had never
heard the name before. This story is told as a
warning to the mayors of Australian towns, who
go “ home ” under the impression that they repre-
sent important items in tire grand old British
Empire.
* • *
Ladies’ hats for next summer’s wear are to
be composed almost entirely of flowers. We’ll bet
a hat that thrift will not be too conspicuous
amongst them. N.B,—Thrift is a small pink
flower.
* * *
Ad. from Melbourne Herald “Ladies,
gentlemen, every station in life, matrimonial ten-
dencies, immediately consult,” &c., &c. Cure
guaranteed, we presume,
• • •
A Melbourne Herald compositor made
upper-crust read upper-curst in a social item one
day last week.
* * *
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—As the artificial
language, “ Volapuk,” or World-speech, is attract-
ing some attention, the following six illustrations
of well-known English proverbs may prove in-
teresting to your readers ;
1. Stik bal timik savom zlil.
One stitch in time save nine.
2. Snat binom siienam gutikiin.
Honesty is the best policy.
3. If tanon fimiko o-tuvon sefik.
Fast bind safe find.
4. Bod golik getom vumi.
The early bird gets the worm.
5. Logol-iid blifo bunol.
Look before you leap.
6. Bod bal in gleip voladom tel in planam.
One bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
ARTHUR W. BATEMAN.
Rylstone.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Skow-wiiitr Patrnt Rotj.kr Ft.oitr is t.be
best iu tlie marbet.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-whitb
Patbnt Rot.lrb Flour. It is the crreatest success of the
Western Australia. Send for plans of Perth
Land to Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96
Bathurst street, Sydney.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
S'ven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing,
ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by Qnibtendon Bros., 11l Kusaell-
street, Melbourne
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 22, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
On 10th inst. Government House, Sydney, was be-
sieged by a mob of gorgeously-attired personages who
ail thronged to pump the weary hand and
enquire, “ 'Ow did yer ladyship like the Hexibition?”
Lady Caring ton, who looks not the least bit done up after
the round of Melbourne festivities, received her callers in
the red drawing-room and afterwards on the verandah,
wearing a quiet gown of dark-blue costume-cloth made
cn polonaise over a jupe of dark-blue velvet finished with
a frill round the feet. Bodice trimmed with collars, cuffs
and revers of the velvet. Her ladyship's accessories were
a rough black straw bonnet trimmed with dark-blue
velvet bows and strings and two yellow pompoms in the
front —white fall dotted, with black tan gloves (which
Lady Cariogton always wears under her sleeve), brown
fur boa and a crimson parasol of the usual
length, for her ladyship never carries an eccen-
tric, long-handled “ husband-beater ” by any chance
whatever. Most of the drapery was very gorgeous The
attendance was large, but comprised so few men that it
nearly degenerated into what the aides de-camp call a
“ cats' party.” The Baron wandered about in a black
billy-hat a little too large for him, and was weighed down
at the thought of the Masonic installation, or the coal
strike, or something. Hon. Rupert paid solid attention
to the ladies, and was helped out by three or four naval
officers. Coupeau Warner haunted the gardens for awhile
with his daughter on his arm. By the w ay, there was
one dignitary present who was great in the tea room. Up
he went to the buffet. ‘‘Tea or coffee, sir?’ said the
large-calved helot behind the urns. “No —brandy-and-
soda,” growled the pallid and sylphlike legistator. He
got it, too.
Compared with the elaborate and muoh-barbered crowd
of the London Comedy Company’s well-remembered days,
and with the horde of gorgeous dudes who nightly graced
the performances of Musgrove’s “ Tambour Major ” Com-
pany, the “chappies” who attended to witness the
Gaiety Co.’s first performance in Sydney were a rather
sorry litter. Those who showed most collar and shirt-
front were “in the money-lendinga friend of mine
counted for me no less than 28 well-known usurers, hard,
remorseless, grinding, uncompromising thixty-per-shen-
ters. Of these about 20 hailed from the East and had
sleepy eyes and long eyelashes, and the balance were
alleged Christians. One of the latter, lam told, stood on
the pavement while the audience rolled up one by one and
exclaimed to the fellow who acts as his tout: “ ’Ere they
come in cabs and carriages, and upon me word we ’ave
bills of sale over ’arf of’em—’aven’t we, Sol?”
The wedding of Miss Dennc with Lieutenant Forrester,
one of the Nelson’s irresistible crew, took place at
“ Singeons” (as somebody once spoke of ‘ St. John’s” to
me), Darlinghurst, one day last week, in the presence of a
fashionable collection of friends, relatives, and sympa-
thisers. The bride made an effective apyemnce in the
orthodox get up for the “ white funeral of the maiden
life”—but I shan’t describe her gown, as bridal-dress
descriptions are deadly dull reading. Rather a novelty
in this wedding was that at the conclusion of the church
ordeal the horses were unharnessed from the brida-
chariot, and 30 enthusiastic bluejackets drew it along
instead. I knew —before 1 got a glimpse of the team of tars
—that they were pulling the carriage because men-o’-
warsmen make the pace so much faster than the Sydney
hired horse. There will, no doubt, shortly be some more wed-
dings to chronicle, as the Nelson's approaching departure
for England is calculated to bring up with a round turn
some of the nautical gallants who have so long being sip-
ping nectar after the manner of their kind.
The Nelson will leave Sydney station on or about the
28th inst. Captain Hammill will remain and assume
command of the new flagship Orlando, and Captain Lake
will take the Nelson home. For a “final farewell” the
officers of the Nelson intend giving a big dance on board
the old flagship.
As Lady Loch, her daughters, and a bevy of lady
friends, were doing the Picture Gallery at the Melbourne
Exhibition, the other day, with a curled and scented aide
dancing attendance upon them, in the exigencies of staring
at a high hung work of art the aide dropped his eye-
glass on the floor and then stood and simply looked at it.
He never “moved or spoke,” like the warrior in the
ballad, until one of the ladies stooped to regain it for
him 1 Then he made one weird short struggle to bend,
when several ominous little sounds like “split split”
were heard, and the gallant aide flew back to a painfully
erect position whilst the girl handed him his lost pane of
glass !
Melbourne knows
What caused his woes—
Tight clothes.
A rival says
The trouble lays
With tight stays.
Anyhow,
He couldn’t bow,
And he pins his glass to his eyebrow now.
And, talking of eyeglasses, a correspondent informs me
that a well-known and well-dressed dude in the vicinity
of Walgett (N.S.W.), who wears an eyeglass and large
checks and otherwise tempts Providence in his costume,
received what is called a “ nasty jar ” the other day. The
“ union ” shearers’ difficulties were on, and “ squattabs ”
had no end of trouble getting men to work. One of the
station-managers was in Walgett with his buggy, up to
which stepped the local masher, who enquired patronia-
ingly: “ Aw—have you—aw—shear-awhs yet ? ” “ Yes,
lianks I’’ replied the manager frankly, “ we’re quite full
m sorry to say, so I really couldn’t take you on! ”
urbain.
The other day a fair and silly devote of “ Home” fashion
allied down Oeorge-street carrying a miniature toy-
errier with a lace jacket embroidered in gold thread on
;!—“Fido's ” spring get-up evidently. And just here let
ue remark metrically that—
The woman who paints her cheeks bright pink,
Or dyes her grey hair yellow,
Or spends her days at a skating rink
With a disbiog “ instructor ” fellow,
Is enough in her way of a moral shock,
But she’s not such a hopeless case
As the senseless female who does the block
With a terrier dressed in laoe.
>tow, don’t you agree with yours truly ?
At a time like the present, when the land is o’ermn
vith the frenzied ’cyclist on his infernal machine, a little
.necdote about a Sydney wheelman of amorous ten-
lencies may not be unacceptable. ’Tis a brief and cruel
vnecdcte. The cyclist in question was crossing a subur-
ban reserve, and at the gate thereof he encountered a
air and frisky female with a thick bang and a huge
bustle, at whom he winked as he opened the gate to let
her through. “ Don’t you think you ought to pay me a
toll ? ” he murmured, suggestively looking as fascinating
as nature would allow him to meanwhile. “ Oh, cer-
tainly, sir,” she responded with surprising alacrity, and
dealt him a sounding slap that nearly knocked his head off.
Those gauze fans now so general are pretty and all that
sort of thing, but they’re transparent, and so the
decollete question remains as urgent as ever. And
apropos of decollete, dressmakers call those narrow
strips of ribbon that form the sole shoulder of the evening
bodies, “ modesties.” Exceedingly modest, aren’t they ?
But Shakesbaconspeare has told us how little there is in a
name.
The Lights o’ George Rignold (that’s the way some of
the ads. read) are still glimmering at Her Majesly’s, and
Emily Fitzroy’s gown is the envy and admiration of every
woman present. The frock in question has a jupe of
cream satin thickly embroidered with seed-pearls and
finished at the hem with two thick fringes of the same.
Bodice and train of rose and cream figured moire in
broad stripes of each colour—the corsage dicolleU and
ornate with crystal beading. In the only scene vouch-
safed her, Emily Fitzroy, the “ Hetty Preene ” of the
electric e.£.c?
THE CHAMPION JUVENILE SKATER AND BICYCLIST OF AUSTRALIA.
(See page 6.)
drama, touches the key-note of the average feminine
ambition when she remarks scornfully: “I don’t want
men to admire me—l want women to envy me ! ”
The Victorian advertisement—l mean Centennial Exhi-
bition—is indirectly causing Sydney matronhood a vast
amount of carking care, for the publicans and thrice-dyed
hashhouse-keeping sinners of the marvellous metropolis
have decoyed all the most “ rekerky ” slaveys across
the Murray to help during the rush. And now the vast
majority of Sydney housewives are weeping (as they get
the dinner in the kitchen with their hands, whilst they
’tend to the hall-door and receive callers with their feet)
for their forlorn and help-less state. Apropos of servants
let me tell you a little “ yarn ” I heard the other day about
the Irish coaohy of a Sydney suburban doctor. Saw-
bones sent this echo of Killarney down to the railway-
station for Mrs. Sawbones on one occasion, and before the
lady could alight from the train, off it went and carried her
on to the next station ; upon which Barney drove back
to the house like fury, and bursting into his master's
presence gasped out: “ Plaze, sor, the mistress has been
overtook." I leave you to guess the effect of this state-
ment !
In the new style of playing cards—each card having a
picture upon it—one of the knaves is represented as a
man playing billiards ! Cruel, isn’t it ?
I read that, out of 2C19 “sweet girl graduates” in the
States, only 998 have since married. Most of the single
girls are past the marrying age. Now what inducements
are presented to women who study ? None 1
They say It’s an unaccountable thing that a certain
Australian Governor’s popular wife doesn't set the fashions
for local sassiety.
On the 13th inst. the annual ball of the Sydney Bicycle
Club came off at Needs’ Rooms, and over 70 couples re-
volved to very good music. The Mayor of Sydney, in his
purple and ermined robes of office, gazed on the proceed-
ings with an eye which appeared to say that he and balls
hadn’t much in common ; he melted away at an early
hour. Of the many tasteful frocks displayed, 'a wonga-
pigeon sort of get-up was of gobelin-blue, with gloves and
plumes to correspond; a Melbourne girl was petite and
pretty in shell-pink surah silk ; and an electric-blue silk,
with much glittering passementerie, looked very elegant.
Two screaming garments were a rose-pink satin, trimmed
with black velvet, gauze, red and white roses, pearl beads,
and indiscriminate passementerie, sported by a fat Potts-
Pointer, and a yellow satin, covered in patches with gas-
green tulle. Baumann catered.
“One of the saddest sights to be seen on ‘The Block’
to-day is a certain pretty girl trying to make a pair of
eye-glasses keep their seat on a roley-poley snub nose
with ho back-bone in it.” The other girl sent me this
item—heaven bless her for it.
“Agony” advt. from the S.M.H. “C.S. —Does 8.8.8.
mean B.A.”?etc. No, it does not. 8.8.8. means 5 ery
Soft and Black” and probably refers to the advertiser
personally.
TJiose leathern belts with three little straps as a fasten-
ing, which are so much worn with blouses just now, are
called ‘ ‘fireman’s belts.” And apropos of such fashionable
trivialities, picot-edged ribbon has given filabe to the
“tapeedge,” which is to be the ribbon of the spring.
Faultless weather favoured the August meeting of the
Rosehill Racing Club on 11th inst., and, as a consequence,
many ladies journeyed out to this popular racecourse,
most of whom had (in street phraseology) “got’em all
on,” in order to successfully promenade the well-kept
lawn to the strains of a band somewhat gone in the drum,
which performed at mercifully long intervals during the
day. A sage-green tailor-built, with black three-storied
wide brimmed hat ornate with sap-green ribbon and a
brown wing, looked veiy well on a slim-figured damsel.
A subdued and tasteful frock was of black cashmere
draped over a jupe of broad gray an 1 black stripes ;
equestrianne hat of black velvet with slate-coloured ribbon
bows. A grey-green cashmere with draperies of figured
brown and sage cloth, high Gainsboro’ hat of brown
straw, trimmed copper “ thunder and lightning ” ribbon
and brown plumes, looked really stylish without being at
all loud; and a gobelin-gray silk with honiton lace cuffs,
collars, and revets, would have been very nice indeed if it
hadn’t looked so decidedly summerish. Talking of “ Bum-
merish ” dressing, one woman turned up at Rosehill on
Saturday in a white open-work skirt and a “ cloud ” that
looked so like a Turkish towel that she produced the
effect upon me that she was en route for a bath. As
regards the management of the affair, everything was as
well done as it possibly could be, and the first home train
left punctually at the finish of the last race. Austin’s
catering was—lovely.
I read that “Mr. Gladstone’s lady followers are to be
credited with a very happy thought. They have taken to
wearing handcuffs as bracelets by way of typifying their
sympathy with the Parnellite M’s.P.! It is said that the
next freak of fashionable sympathy will be the ‘Broad
Arrow’ costume.” By-the-bye, our aristocracy cannot
wear handcuff bracelets however toney they become,
because it would look go egotistical of them, wouldn’t it ?
And if Claire Maude de Potts Point started to do the
block in a “broad arrow” costume she’d look so natural
in it that the police might run her in.
At the second “ state ball” (how Imperial we are !) held
at Government House, Melbourne, Lady Loch wore a
very pretty gown of bodice and train of pale-primrose
satin with satin jupe veiled with creamed gauze. Pearls
for ornaments. The Misses Loch (2) were in white China
silk and lace —two remarkably simple gowns, and wore
their hair in “ pigtails” tied with white ribbon. In Sydney
“ pigtails ” have rather gone out of fashion for young girls
and flowing manes mostly distinguish our young ideas
instead.—Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
At last a fire has happened in N.S.W. of
which the occupant of the premises had so little
notice that he actually got burnt. Wonders will
never cease.
Addressing the children at Hamilton
(N.S.W.) Public School, Premier Parkes declared
that he “had lived a long time now, and he had
no stronger belief than that there was no great
character who was not gentle and considerate and
forgiving to his fellow creatures.” “Go out and
bark with the other dogs!” “Withered taran-
tula !” “Crimps, thieves, and blacklegs !” “Does
yer mother know yer hout ?” Are we not quoting
from the gentle and considerate Premier Parkes ?
A Gippsland paper reports a big jump by
a thoroughbred horse, under 15 hands, at the local
saleyards. After clearing the ring fence 5ft. 5in.
in height he jumped over the drafting-yard fence,
(jft. high.
Bloodthirsty “ad.” from the S.M.
Herald
TP Mr. 0. A , Foveaux-street, don’t redeem
1 bodies within seven days from date, I intend to
sell the same at his risk. G. T. W , .
If these two gore-stained assassins are allowed to
communicate with each other about the mangled
remains of their victims in the columns of the
daily Press life will be no longer safe in N.S.W,
Mr. C. A. has evidently put the evidences of his
crime up the spout, and unless he comes back
and takes them-down again G.T.W. will sell
them—for boiling down purposes most likely.
Therefore we rise with a large club and demand
that the police should at once proceed to track
these twin fiends to their lair, and tear from that
festering den those decaying remnants of poor
humanity which are being financed upon by two
cold-blooded Thugs in the midst of a Christian
land. Common respectability demands that the
bodies in question should receive decent burial,
and that the outraged law should wreak its ven-
geance on C. A. and on that ghastly fnonster of
iniquity, G.T. W.
Mr. R. L. Seddon, the English Football
captain, who was drowned one day last week
at Maitland, New South Wales, was one
of the best-natured and quietest fellows one
could meet. The bulk of the team were very
“ hot members,” indeed. About two o’clock in
the morning was a fair time for them to go to bed,
and when they were starting for Melbourne one
of them wanted right or wrong to take over with
him two “perfect ladies” to whom he had
attached himself during his stay in Sydney,
The Englishmen, to put it very mildly, were not
addicted to sedentary pursuits ; and the life they
led while travelling round the colonies did them
no good in the way of keeping up their
form. But when a man has the build of Hercules,
united with the strength of a horse, and has a
head whereon whisky has no effect —why, not-
withstanding the foolishness of the operation, he
perhaps can “ afford ” to knock himself about a bit
more than a weakling. These men were true
examples of the English type—of the kind of
Englishman who could lick three Frenchmen and
five Spaniards before breakfast. Fancy a man
5ft. Sin. high weighing 12 stone of solid bone and
muscle, and going 40in. round the chest! And
more than several of these Englishmen did that.
O wingtothe demoralisation of the labouring classes
in the old country such men are becoming rare,
and we of Australia don't seem able to breed ’em.
Our boys were big enough but they carried a lot of
lumber. The Englishmen were square-backed and
very short in the flank, while our fellows all had
rather a drawn-out look about them—not “ ribbed
home,” as the racing men say. Our fellows were,
as might be expected, more active and might well
enough have won with a better knowledge of the
game; but for pure stamina, for a team that
could play the last half as well as the first half
and the second day as well as the first day, we could
not get a team like the English team in Australia.
Now and again the sturdy English type crops out in
our athletes, such as Beach and Searle, and when we
do get hold c f good men we encourage them right
heartily and so manage to beat the world with
them, but the average Cornstalk is not the man his
English father was. The writer has in his mind
an old Englishman who came out here for his
country’s good : six feet high, “broad-breasted
as twin gates of brass,” no flank at all, and tre-
mendous hips and legs. This man could work all
day up to his knees in watersinking a well and not
feel the slightest ill effect, and on one occasion
getting his two-horse dray bogged with a
load of sacks of corn, he unloaded the dray
and carried every sack on his back on to firm
ground, drove the team out, and then re-loaded
again singlehanded. This man had a son a
native, straight and tall and broadshouldered, but
flatter in the chest than his father, and longer in
the waist. For a spurt of work he was just as
good as the old man, but for endurance the father
could fairly wear him down, “He’s a strong
man, Bob is,” the old fellow used to say, in his
rude vernacular, “but he’s got no more guts than
a magpie.” That is just what is the matter with
allCornstalks—want of enduranceand recuperative
power which the old man concentrated in his
ancient English expression. Talking of Beach
and Searle, if you want a good straight tip about
a coming sculler pin your faith to Searle. He will
beat Sbansbury whenever he meets him ; he will
beat Nelson: he will beat Hughes : and if he is
not trained off his legs by the time he tackles Peter
Kemp, the writer will have his little bit on the
Clarence River sculler, and chance it.
SONG OF THE GENTLE CAPIT’LIST.
(After J. Brunton Stephens, in the CENTENNIAL
MAGAZINE.)
I am a gentle Gapit’list,
And love established laws;
I’m sure it’s wrong to use a fist
To further any cause ;
’Tis straight against morality
To hit one in the jaw,
But if a man must injured be,
Why, injure him by law.
I wouldn’t hurt his nose,
I wouldn’t hurt his toes,
But on him I sought to harm
I’d let fall the legal arm,
Which will damage more than toes and nose.
I am a gentle Capit’list,
And law is my delight,
I wouldn’t steal a bun or twist
From baker’s late at night;
I’d make them pay a pension both
To me and to my wife,
And if they failed I’d, on my oath,
Imprison them for life.
That is, the Law would see
That some such penalty
Was imposed on those who’d whine
At supporting me and mine—
That is, this righteous law would see !
I’m such a gentle Capit’list,
I weep when I behold
The sleety rain and heavy mist
That make a woman cold ;
But when the landlord throws her out,
Sick, friendless, and dismayed
Oh, he and I together shout,
“ The law must be obeyed !”
I weep for her, I say,
Her sorrow turns me grey ;
Why the devil was she not
Born among our favoured lot ?
I weep bitterly for her, I say !


A'RADICAL REFORM.
! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or, “rocking machines” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to oe rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The two above-described “ Steaming ” and
* 4 Rocking ” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. Whgp the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out* so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead o! the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 486 George Street,
SVTINVV
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Hookings, 410 George Street, near king Street.
S. FREEMAN & SOWS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Bitlo'e Baking Powders. Driest Square Site,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD St CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PERSIAN SHERBET,
&0., &0.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
Alhambra music hall,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr, Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
Life presery ation;
BY
Db, J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street Bast, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints,
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. fid. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
J>UZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the S eepy Nigger,
Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address NORTON WADE, care of A. LUSBY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular off Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quo tec’ at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
HURRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB j I
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Evbbt Bbanoh,
viz.
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes —• Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiap li and Sealskin
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Lavatory ani> Dressing-Room Provided,
It is cabled that the Duke of Marlborough,
who was married on the Continent on June 2 to
Mrs. Hammersl«y, a wealthy American widow,
has again gone tjhrough the ceremony of marriage
in London, It is not cabled that the wealthy
widow, having suddenly remembered all about
Marlborough’s fkstrtrier wife, thought it would be
just as well to« take precautions and make him
“ clinch the nail.”’
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Tramway Handicap, run August 25th, 1888. 4000
Subscribers at 10s. each. Frst Horse, £800;
Second, £250; Third, £l5O ; Starters, £250; Non-
starters £250 (divided amongst them), and 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. The Hawkesbury
Handicap, run September 15th 1888. 2000 Sub-
scribers at 10s, each- First Horse, £400; Second,
£200; Third, £108; Starter's, £lOO ; Non-starters,
£lOO (divided amongst them), also one of the £5O
Cash Awards of £2 each. Hawkesbury Handi-
cap, 1000 Subscribersat2os. each. The Melbourne
Cup, run November 6th, 1888. 10,000 Subscribers
at 10s. efAsh. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same,. and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. HugbDalveenj
Victor!a Cafe Hotel, inear General P"D Office
(Jnurp' Ssr*w>. Sydney, S.!l W
Business Announcement
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material,
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
A6ATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
B
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets,
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPRING STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Wabhstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
sd
A USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE,
A Vbbi Comp mu
Ahbobtmbnt,
Many quite new deslgne.
Newton & Lamb.
fsd
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
fs
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging apace
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
d
£1 ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah,
Price Very Low,
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bes
mftVn. also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.-
NEWTON and LAM
CORRESPONDENCE
“ One Who was Handy ” : Thanks. It’s hardly
worth while now to raise the question “ Bulli ”; To be
courted by the shanty-keeper while you’re in funds and
to be chucked out when you’ve spent your cheque is
such a common experience that it hardly merits mention.
To get two months’ gaol for falling on a hard spot is also
within the range of very ordinary human suffering....
“Susan” (Geelong): Received with thanks “S.E.”:
Why, Governor Phillip, to whom the N.S.W. Government
purpose erecting a statue, once hanged a lad of 17 for
stealing a pound of flour “E.A.”; The mere fact that
your neighbour has registered his dogs does not give him
the right of keeping animals whose noise is hurtful to
you. As well argue that because a man was licensed to
carry firearms he had a right to shoot anyone he met....
“ Oullard Pusson ” : Your letter of about 3500 words and
the eight foolscap sheets of poetry about the village
maiden who slithered with the squire have been dashed
into the waste-paper-basket “F.L.P.”: Metre exe-
crable....“ Starline ” (Newtown): Yes. Send in your little
bill “E. A.” :If so, you are as lucky as a fat priest....
“ Cockney” : Wrong. Haynes was the third.... “Phono ”
(P.): We have mislaid your extract. Can you oblige by
furnishing it again?. ..“Z.D.” (Auckland, N.Z.); What
do you want the colonial youth to be ? Why shouldn’t he
drink milk, why shouldn’t he like flowers ? “ A.J.S.” :
An improvement in business is often heralded by strikes.
The workman scents prosperity in the air and endeavours
to secure a small meed of justice on the off-chance of
compelling Capital to employ him at a higher rate of
wages or to submit to the alternative of having his money
lying idle with a consequent non-return of interest
“Democrat”: We cannot adore any Australian who ac-
cepts a title ; in that respect Griffith and M'llwraith stand
on the same ground, though M'llwraith excuses himself
for accepting a handle by the plea that he took it simply
to show that there was nothing in the Griffith party’s
taunt that he (Mao.) was regarded as a rascal by the
Colonial Office in re the steel-rails trouble. We favour
M'llwraith because he has sounded the note of Australian
Nationalism, which with us goes before all things....
“Waldo”: Nonsense. No maiden ever looked so shy or
blushed so deeply first as we did on popping our watch.
And now we coolly regard the ceremony as a mere ordi-
nary commercial transaction...." R 8.T.” (West Mel.
bourne): We sympathise with you in your desire to
abolish the State and the Parliament and things in gene-
ral, but we want to know what you are going to do next.
You must have some agency to keep the machine going,
and if the people have not brains enough to return a Par-
liament which does not consist of blatant howlers,
flunkeys, money-grubbers, and every description of
human selfishness, they have not brains enough yet to
do without a Parliament. Men must be judged by the
company they keep, and at present the Australian people
are in the company of Gillies and Parkes “ Australian
Native Your nine-page scream is too lofty and hystedcal
altogether. Be calm and hold on to something while
you write “ A.E.”: The Bathurst jurymen so
■mercilessly abused by Judge Docker seem to
have been reputable citizens, anyhow “Gee-
long”; It was traded off on us by some villain.
Only people who live in sleepy Geelong have time to post
themselves in the literature of the Family Herald
“E. Wilson ” (Cobden): If a woman h.ts you 700 miles
away from our office, why not get the nearest policeman
to run her in instead of writing tom in a small round
hand on both sides of the paper about it ? “ F. L. P. ” :
The poem about your deceased brother’s walk under the
wattles is too respectably solemn for publication....
“Susan”: Accept our blessing “H. G. E. ” (St.
Arnaud): Thanks for cutting, though the German joke
is rather deep and heavy for Australian soil “ Liberal ”
(Bundarra): If, as the authority you quote asserts, “ the
five least illiterate counties of England returned 31 Con-
servatives and only one Liberal at last election,” we con-
clude that the voters hadn’t their knowledge with them
on the polling day. Most likely the story is a lie, any-
how. If it isn’t, it doesn't matter. If it is, it doesn’t
matter either. [Many letters held over.]
Two youths were sent to the cells in Syd-
ney last week for having stolen a copy of the
S.M. Herald. It took two to carry it, and even
then they could barely move. A Sydney police-
man was able to overtake them.
Talmage says that Providence intended
that the profession of the reporter should have a
mighty share in the world’s Redemption. He
says St- Luke was the first reporter. Imagine one
of the Early Fathers sent out to “do ” a Divorce
Court to the satisfaction of —well, Editor Winter !
Sydney Bicycle Club brought off the first
day’s racing of their meeting on Saturday week.
Jenkins proved the hero of the afternoon, winning
the ten-miles championship in 35min. 39|sec., an
excellent performance on a heavy track. He also
won the two-mile event for the Milbrook Cup,
Mutton running into second place on each occasion.
William Richards, accountant of St. Ktlda,
has commenced an action for £5OOO for libel
against Melbourne Herald, for publishing ex-
tracts from a speech by Sir Henry Parkes and
others in the N.S.W. Parliament, reflecting on
Richards’ management of a certain company in
Sydney. This case should prove a most interest-
ing one.
The venerable Sir Alfred Stephen, Lieu-
tenant Governor of N.S.W., was picknicked this
week by his children and grandchildren, who num-
ber in all 98, If you would be picknicked at the
age of 86 by your children and grandchildren,
drink colonial wine in moderation, like Sir
Alfred Stephen, and brace yourself up in sum-
mer with Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
The Orlando, the new British flagship on
the Australian station, cost £266,814. Her dis-
placement is 5000 tons, as against the Nelson’s
7630 ; but her horse-power is 8500 to the Nelson’s
6640. She carries enough coal to steam at full
speed 2000 knots, or if her speed is limited to 10
knots an hour she can steam without re-coaling
for nearly 10,000 miles. .On her trial trip she at-
tained a speed of 19 "25 knots per hour, with forced
draught.


Hotels.
GHE-A-iTE J HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KF* MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
COSCROVC
?Xkxl
cm
i
if r
j
il
raw
Ladies* Drawing-Looms. Leading and
Smoking Looms. Night Porter.
D. COSGIIOYE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) Proprietress.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. R 1 gnold and Allison
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Priobs, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Mnsgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
MISS NELLIE EARREN’S LONDON
GAIETY COMPANY in Monte Cristo, Jun.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's
I SS
VON EINKELSTEIN,
. . - Who is attracting
OVERELOWING AUDIENCES NIGHTLY.
M
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of the
“ SARA BERNHARDT of the PLATEORM.”
Thursday, August 23.
HOMES and HAUNTS of JESUS.
Friday, August 24.
The BEDOUINS of the DESERT.
Saturday Afternoon,
At 3 p.m.
GRAND MATINEE,
For Children and Suburban Residents,
LIFE IN JERUSALEM.
R. S. SMYTHB, Manager.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
|>OTANY I BOTANY I BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Gband Saobbd and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
1 R 1 TE R I O N THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Inauguration of the DRAMATIC SEASON.
2nd WEEK 2nd,
and ENORMOUS SUCCESS
of
The late Sir Charles Young’s World-famous Drama,
JIM THE PENMAN
JIM THE PENMAN
JIM THE PENMAN.
Entirely New Scenery by Mr, W. B. Spong.
ADMISSION— Ss., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
LHAMBRA MUSIC HALL,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
oprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
*ge Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington’
VOX POPULI.
idINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
OUR BLONDINETTES
OUR BLONDINETTES.
EVERY EVENING.
MINSTRELSY,
OiiiO,
and FARCE.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony. 8d
MR. NEIL MACKAY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediately to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper Co,
Amusements.
COO6BB PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director —Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating 1 Skating 1 Skating I
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, la.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stoffobd, Snb Manager.
B
ONDI
AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Aaphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
The Great Double Company, 40 Numbering 40.
A CARNIVAL OF NOVELTIES.
FAREWELL APPEARANCE of Everybody in
this TBIUMAHAN F AND LEVIATHAN SHOW.
THE WORLD S WONDERS,
HISCOCK S and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening,
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
The Second Grand Juvenile Carnival
will be
POSTPONED ONE WEEK,
in order to give the Children more time to
Rehearse for the Grand March,
and will
POSITIVELY TAKE PLACE
on
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 31.
'Buses will leave Wyny ward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-streel, flxblbt-
•lon gates.
ADMISSION. l«
f^ RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
\jT SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
THE MOST FASHIONABLE BINK IN SYDNBX.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE CHAMPION JUVENILE SKATERS
and BICYCLISTS OF THE WORLD,
Miss NELLIE and Master DONEGAN.
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 24.
GRAND COMPLIMENTARY and FAREWELL BENEFIT,
Tendered by the Management to
Miss Nellie Donegan and Master J. Donegan,
Champion Juvenile Trick and Fancy
Skaters and Bicyclists of the World.
FRIDAY NEXT,
POSITIVELY THEIR LAST APPEARANCE in SYDNEY,
on which occasion Master Donegan will be
presented with a
GOLD MEDAL
by the Staff of Instructors of the C. P. S. R.
No Advance in Prices.
ADMISSION, Is.
Don’t fail to see these famous artistes.
Positively their Last Appearances in Sydney.
In active preparation,
Grand Fancy Dress and Masquerade Carnival.
Watch further announcementts.
ALFRED WYBURD, Bole Manager.
Business Announcements.
THE
‘PLUM’
Razor.
Wxs.’mmmc.
THE
“PLUM”
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground ; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor, 10s, 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
Nine Haircutters always Employed ! "tSA
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gasitttees, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Mediaeval Metal Workers.
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants,-Hose and all appliances.
ICON ACCORD WORKS, » Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stamnore Road, Petersham.
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURERS.,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
RVOU S D E
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
B I L I T T.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist In Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self Cube FOB Nbbvodb DIBIKIBX ABO
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addaess—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Karbeliat,
167 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
«gr
' '."V•-
’WN. .... ■
- ■S-v 1 •’■ *-& ■ - ■' »
. : - •; ■ .->>
■■■ \ ■ ■
■■~ \ '
Pfpparf &p¥i
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory,"
Specially prepared from Ripk Fbuxt, and la the beat ol
all Fruit Salines.
EULIB-HTIM, B-fREiK'NB, IPIGOSiIISB,
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor;
ITH. PARSONS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England.
Aqbnts:
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydnbt
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
©
LEA & PERRI N S'SAUC E
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY.
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &o.„ MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men-
tJy jTHS. CUES,B ALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS* BOWLS-
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
1, tittle George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, UNDO!,
fsd
Tn tonsequtnct of Imitations of THE WO RC ESTERS HIAff
SA l/GE which arc calculated h deceive the Public, and I Wd
have la request lhal Purchasers set that the Lat/d
bears their Signature thus^
without which HO bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SA UCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA <md PERRIES' Sauce, and set Ram* on Wrapper, Label, Botdo mm3
Stopper. Wholesale atid for Export by the 1‘ropmetors, Worcester;. Crota mm
blaekvetl , London, 6j*c., GTC.! and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the
»— — - - —i — — ■ ■ ■ '
Vktoto A tT' r f* MomrMn Joan 4 (Jm David dosa 4 c*.
A LOVELY SKIN,
fcauntUnl complexion, ioft, imooth and delicate neck, face, hand* and aim* can beet he obtained
iy discarding all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not bam* eitownS te
■ irn*s?> on th® skis cannot possibly hate any good effect on it, and by using
fgpwiandA’
Ralgaor
$ aooiing, soothing, Healing and refreshing preparation for the face, hands and arms of all
axposed to the heat and dost of summer or the cold and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
%ui, sunburn, stings, redness and roughness -qf the skin caused by cold winds or the use of hard
water, removes pimples, spots, discolorations, chilblains, eczema, etc., relieves inflammation,
burns, scalds, inflamed eyes, and renders a chapped and rough skin delightfully smooth and
Rleasant. Gentlemen after shaving will And it allays all irritation and tenderness of the skin ;
; is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredient*, can be used with impunity on the
akin of the most delicate lady or child, ..
4b. 6d. and Bs. 6d. per bottle; bottle* of half the nrM
air* 2s. M.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR Oil promote* the growth of the hair, ans
*i«r» sold hi a golden colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO whiten* the teeth, prevent* decay, and gives a
plying fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS’ article*, of 20, HattOA
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bbob., and B. Pbobsbb & 00., Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THH BRIGHTON OB 1 XT.B.W-
At the OIiARBNDON HOTEL, Banquets, Snpperfl, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most reoherehi
dinner von can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. TabU
to Htoi at 1 o’clock dally and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminsti* to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
■rs. KILWNSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Oppotit. ocean beach, manly.


Business Announcements.
tsr only ■»
WHIM lISTMEIT
Direct Supply Association!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
fi DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and will dc
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. fid. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355.
~ » ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
Q- ;■ Q.-3 ® Q Q V Q *
D
The finest show of ACCORDEQNS to be seen
in the colonies from 10s. fid. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel ~ „ ... 355. Od.
. 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
ROMAV Mil STSIieS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/-and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is, 3d, each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola Double Sass,
Zithar, k, k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
6, 6 or 7 „ „ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.U. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN, Manager,
658 George Street,
William’s Australian Insecticide Is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros ,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
E.C.ELEY
<y
a?
sJ 3
<3
&
&
$
O'
A
o
v
V
&
&
-#
■#
o
9
O
v
£
C?
*
o
<o
&
a
&
o
X s
O
V
&
o
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDNEY.
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Ronalllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,322.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors' Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1\ per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
fds
B2SSCTJTB IKTIDBiTTS
FOE ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE*
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 1
The Best Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS, ?
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lor the above for New Sonth Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery
imported Leathers, &o.; and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH'
NUBIAN BLACKING j Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms'
Business Announcement*.
ROW’S
DaaMoo Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS bo be taken bwi
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys. Is more reliable for remov
!ng all Impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 80, 1886.
Gentlemen, —I have great pleasure In reoom<
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for It without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
„ 0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tam worth, August SI, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned!—
“ I have for many years been obliged bo
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may bake advantage of them,
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
1 Messrs, Ed. Row and Company, Sydney,"
ows
%
Bow s Steane’s Wl io
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Bow’s Bteane's Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try It.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row B
‘Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M‘KILLOP, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1881."
Bow’s Steane's wins
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsnr
passed.
TRY THBM.
Hotel-keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW'S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW'S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW'S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW'S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW'S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUOHU BITTERS.
ROW'S ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company.
43, 45, 47 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
“No noose is good news,” said the re-
prieved prisoner,
A nine-foot coal seam has been cut by the
diamond drill at Merboo, Vic., 040 ft. down,
“I shooted all over de garownd,”—Re-
mark by Northern P.M., elevated to the Bench per
favour of de Yarman vote.
Mrs, Gordon- Baillie “left the police court
smelling a bouquet of roses which she had had in
her lap during the hearing,”
Plaintiff O’Donnell’s coats in the Times’
action are stated as £25,000. Jockey Wood’s costs
in his libel action were £2500.
Goldsbrough and C >., I/mited, and Mort
and Co,, Limited, have joined forces. This is
colonial federation in earnest.
For every four men in British lunatic
asylums there five women. The fifth woman goes
mad because she has no husband to drive mad.
Can a newspaper which pays 10 per cent,
“interim” dividends afford to tell the truth and
shame Parkes ? Not much —when Government
ads. are a consideration !
“ Yes, he (Sir Henry Parkes) said ” (in his
speech at Hamilton) “ God be thanked for books.’
Why, certainly. What would the poor tradesman
do without his account-books when he gets into
the Insolvency Court ?
Sydney is the pedestrian’s paradise. Ash-
field Recreation Ground management offer £350 in
prizes for a 130 yards’ handicap, to be run in
October. In England, the biggest prize of this
nature is given at Sheffield, where the winner gets
only £BO,
A Melbourne paper asserts on the authority
of a German professor that the heart of man is
two square inches larger than that of a woman.
Still woman has the advantage, for that which
she has not the heart to accomplish she can always
manage on her cheek.
A Mr. Ponsonby and party are now en-
gaged in diving for the specie (£250,000) which
went down with L’Orient flagship in Aboukir
Bay, and if they don’t land the cash they have at
least a chance of finding the historical boy who
stood on the burning deck of L’Orient, whence
all but he had fled. Something tells us that the
skeleton of that gallant child, standing bolt
upright, will be raised from the deep and sold to
Barnum.
The City of Rest,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stood in a beautiful city
When the sun was warm and bright,
And I dreamt a dream of the day-tide
Unveiled by the wings of night.
And I said : “I have found forever
What a heart of regret held vain,
I have found me a city that seerneth
Unsullied by strife and pain.”
So I wandered amidst its mazes,
And lingered in avenues green,
And the perfume I drank of its gardens
Where never neglect was seen,
And I halted where many a palace
And humblest dwelling shone
Alike in their marble whiteness
And glitter of bronze and stone.
Yet in never a street where I wandered
Was betokened abode unkempt,
For Beauty’s divinest presence
Was enthroned in the dream I dreamt,
And I looked in the faces that met me,
Yet never a sign could trace
Of malice—’twas love that rested
Upon every passing face.
And I said to my heart, “ Here abideth
The peace that thou yearnest for,
For the citizens here are equal,
And Love is their only law.
Oh, heart! thou shalt drink the measure
Of the peace thou hast sought through life,
Thou shalt dwell in this city beautiful
That knoweth no human strife ;
In this wondrous city tranquil
Thou shalt rest, oh, heart!” I said,
“ Thou shalt rest, where pieace is perfect,
In this City of the Dead.”
JOHN COLLINS.
Tam worth News remarks that “ onPremier
Parkes being questioned just before Parliament
broke up concerning the appointment of Mr.
Charles Lyne as Secretary to the Public Works
Committee, he stated that there were several
applications from Civil Servants for the position
but that no appointment had been made. That
was a deliberate misrepresentation, for several
weeks previously Mr. Lyne had been given it,
and had sent in his resignation to the Herald.
The Premier’s game was to keep the appointment
a secret until the Parliament was prorogued.” If
this is untrue, it will be worth Premier Parkes’
while to deny it.


Business Announcements.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.'
DR- RUHNEY
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will be happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE “WONDER” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 63,785 Miles.
The trip to ST. ALBANS is a perfect “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “Wonder”
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world. '
Ask at the Coach Office, HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for all particulars.
Feasts and entertainments for
THE INMATES OF DESTITUTE
ASYLUMS.
It is proposed during the ensuing month of Sep-
tember, should the necessary funds be available,
to give a FEAST and ENTERTAINMENT to.
the Inmates of each of the Destitute Asylums at
Liverpool, Parramatta, and Newington.
This laudable movement was initiated in 1885
by Mr. Quong Tart, and was carried out most
successfully during that and succeeding year.
The Treasurers of the fund have in hand a small
balance from first series of feasts, and which they
trust will be largely .augmented by donations from
the generous and charitable, so that the committee
may once more be enabled to cheer the hearts of
these poor helpless creatures.
Donations, either in money or goods, are
earnestly solicited, and will be thankfully received
by any of the undersigned.
HUGH TAYLOR, Esq , M.P., 'k
Parramatta
QUONG TART, Sydney Arcade j
Hon.
Treasurers.
ROBERT GUY, J.P.,.128 Vic-
toria-street
A. C. HEWLETT, J.P., 116
Sussex-street.
Hon.
Secretaries.
A MEETING of Committee will take place at
Mr. Quong Tart’s Tea Room, upstairs, Sydney
Arcade, on MONDAY EVENING Next, at 7.30.
LADIES SPECIALLY INVITED.
T>
oi
O
S
o
S
T
4
Scents,
DELISSAk PHILLIPS
3& 0 Barmck Street.
Western Australia. Send for plans of Perth
Land to Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd., 96
Bathurst-street, Sydney.
JMPORTANT NEWS.
“ A remarkable find of gold-bearing quartz has
been made at Yilgarn (W.A.) A large area is
covered on the surface with stone containing gold.
Specimens brought into Perth are of a marvel-
lously rich character, one of which, when broken
revealed gold in great quantities.”—S.M. Herald
Juiy 25th, 1888.) “ Arrangements have been
completed for the construction of the West Aus-
tralian Midland Railway.”—(S.M. Heeald,
July 17, 1888.)
Telegrams are appearing daily in the Press re-
cording rich gold discoveries in Western Aus-
tralia.
Now is the time to make a profitable purchase
of land in Perth, the capital of Western Aus-
tralia. It is offered for a mere song, but shortly
will not be obtainable except at much higher
prices, for Western Australia is certainly booked
for a prosperous era, and Perth property will
increase with rapidity even as property has done
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, &c.
EVELEIGH ESTATE, PERTH,
Elevated, good building land ; well-situated, and
only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting Go-
vernment road. Ten Pounds each lot. Terms—
£l deposit; balance, 10s. monthly. No Interest.
Free deeds absolutely to purchasers of five lots.
Title, Torrens. Pamphlet containing valuable in-
formation and marked plan of the Estate for-
warded to any address on application to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg tio notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & GO., CAIRO.
M. OADBMBNO, CAIRO.
We are bow offering these exceptionally Oholc*
Brands of
CIBi&ETTES, alio FINEST BRANDS sf CIBi&S,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
m Noti this Fbioi i
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—thi
11 SESOSTRIS ” Brand—ln Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
MT By baying from as you will save at least
16 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
ii mum street, mm
(opposite Savings Bank).
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS I
The concealed cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Pkice of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
i
v>
■i
LICHTITEK ds CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 Vie,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... ... £33,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 3 years .. 7 per cent.
For 6 months 1 per oent.
For 1 year _ 6 per cent.
For 3 months „ 8 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hbad Office—lo, & 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
Australian mutual provident
society.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
J. P. ABBOTT, EsqTSp., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer :
JAS. C. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent.. of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
.business Announcements.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
vjoiaiisr BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TATTERSALL’S
MDIESTES CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event*
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall's Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
SHIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain* it* Prestige and stand* pre-eminent amon
the host* of other brand* a*
TEN BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIFB OFFERED XO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforee the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
131 OLARHNOE-BTRBBX.
We base Large Shipments of this BRAND OF ERIA!
FIFES to hand and Regular Shipment* coming forwai
WHOLE SALK ONLY. * onrM
BRUI TO IT’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
O.D be obtained throughout New South Wale*,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... .„
BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
... 34 Pitt Sinaia.
...Edwaed Stbsht,
... Sfenohb Stbbht.
“An Old Station Manager ” writing to the
S.M. Herald recently concerning the inhuman
practice of shearing sheep in winter, says :
“ Imagine,, some thousands of these shivering wretches,
the wool shaved off during the day, turned out into the
shed yard, many—indeed, nearly all —having cuts, and
bits or pieces of skin snipped out on various portions of
the body and limbs, on one of these freezing winter
nights, as I have frequently seen done in the central
divison of the colony, nights when the water in buckets,
&0., about the shearers’, aye, ‘even inside the huts,’ has
frozen hal'd, and tea left by the fireplace over night has
been turned to a mixture of ice and leaves. It is a pitiful
sight to see these poor victims’ agony in the early morning;
the roofs, rails, &c., covered with the white hoar-frost.
They stand in unnatural attitudes, drawn up and distorted
by pain and intense agony, with drooping ears and run-
ning eyes, a shaking, shivering mass of tortured animal
suffering ; many of them having wounds (accidentally in-
flicted) that would lay up a human being for weeks.
Should wet weather set in, their case *s even worse, as
they have not the friendly sunshine by day to thaw their
frozen limbs and wounds. Owners who inflict this bar-
barity say that they must do it to avoid grass seeds
(that excuse is a convenient, but not a true one), it is done
when there is no grass seed, viz , in times of drought, also
runs where the seed does not injure the wool at any
time. Actually it is a breeches-pocket innovation, and
these same innovators are now arranging matters so that
the ewes drop their lambs also in the middle of winter.
Content they say to lose (i.e., have frozen to death) a good
percentage, because it will pay in other ways.”
The finding of some gigantic fossil bones
on Myall Creek Station (N.S.W.) recalls the fact
that the locality has a grisly history. In the
latter part of the year 1838, a “mob” of blacks,
men, women, and children, to the total number of
28, were cruelly slaughtered in cold blood on
Myall Creek run and their bodies burnt. Bight
white men, assigned servants in the neighbour-
hood, were arrested for the murders. The first
trial proved abortive, from the difficulty of satis-
fying the jury as to the identity of the particular
“black” they were charged in the indictment
with having murdered. A second trial took place
in November of the year named, before Chief
Justice Dowling, with John Hubert Plunkett,
Attorney-General, and Roger Therry (afterwards
Judge) prosecuting; while Mr. (afterwards Sir Wil-
liam) A’Beckett, and Chief Justice of Victoria, with
Mr. Foster and Mr. Windeyer, father of the present
N.S.W. Judge, defended the prisoners, of whom
seven were convicted and hanged on one day, in
December, 1838. While awaiting trial these men
were visited in gaol by a magistrate of the terri-
tory who used his position for the purpose, and
took the opportunity of delivering a violent
harangue against the authorities for causing the
prosecution, and all for “a few miserable blacks.”
He advised them to be true to each other and
keep their own counsel, adding that if they did
so no conviction could follow. If others higher
in the social scale were implicated, the unfortunate
prisoners did keep their own counsel and suffered
the death penalty for this brutal massacre.
“Thought is Marching Onward Still.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Tombs of tyrants—graves of bondsmen
Lie around us cold and chill,
Teaching by their silent warning
Thought is marching onward still.
Throbbing with the hope of ages
Hearts of blinded millions thrill,
Crowned with thorns, or crowned with laurels,
Thought is marching onward still.
Men may die upon the scaffold,
Bastille-dungeons, they may fill,
But, in spite of gyve or halter,
Thought is marching onward still.
Millions sunk in saddening bondage,
Other millions millions kill ;
Yet, amid the crash of armies,
Thought is marching onward still.
Striding o’er the world’s broad highway,
Slow surmounting adverse hill,
Strides the celeste-born immortal —
Thought is marching onward still.
Through the streets of steepled city,
Where the fever-fumes distil,
With its distant goal in eye-range,
Thought is marching—marching still.
Aye, dispelling mental darkness,
Aye, dispersing clouds of ill,
Aye, with unblenched brow and bearing,
Thought is marching—marching still.
Firmly fronting marshalled cohorts,
Heedless of the despot’s will,
Marching proud to Miriam-music,
Thought to victory hurries still.
ARTHUR DESMOND.
Half a bullock fell on John Murphy, at a
slaughter-house near Trentharn (Vic.), the other
day, and seriously deranged a number of his
fixtures. This is one of the disastrous results of
the late rise in beef.
Mr. G. A. Cruickshank, an Inverell
(N.S.W.) squatter, at a recent local railway meet-
ing said that “ the line proposed by the Govern-
ment was like their d d impertinence, and
rather than allow a bale of his wool to be carried
on the line he would employ every disengaged
bullock-team in the country.”
In a Northern N.S.W. town the con-
tractor for the local deadhouse recently applied
for an increase of remuneration on the funerals of
all “ Scotch persons.” This wasn’t a move on the
part of the local Protectionists. Oh! no. The
fact was that Sandy, with the usual foresight,
had selected the only dry ground in the local
cemetery—a bed of rock—and the labour necessary
to carve out sarcophagi ran away with all the
contractor’s profits.
There is a diver named Beer in the em-
ploy of Melbourne Harbour Trust. He is a “deep-
sinker,” we presume.
There are 25,000 total abstainers in the
British army. The Duke of Cambridge is a total
abstainer —from fighting.
Two showers of fish have fallen upon the
farm of one M'Dougall, near Coleraine (Vic.),
and now his dams are bream-full. Ha, ha, ha !
One of the most interesting sights in May-
town (Q.) to-day is a blind Chinaman who is led
round on his begging tours by a wild blackfellow.
“Where are our temperance big guns I”
queries a fiery zealot in a recent Melbourne
Herald. Recovering from the last burst, if we
may venture an opinion.
An Adelaide meenister who happens to be
in the swim slipped himself up a few Sundays ago
by announcing; “Dearly beloved, you will find
the words of my text this morning in Matthew,
lot 1, block 7.”
Margaret Catchpole, who came to Botany
Bay early in the century for some little trouble
connected with a horse, said : “ There are a great
many horses at Sydney and some very neat
whiskeys and little clay carts.’’ It will be noted
that “ neat whiskeys ” are still popular in Sydney.
Totally unexpected candour. Scene —the
shop of a milliner, who is doing remarkably well
in business and is consequently rather independent.
Lady Customer : “These bonnets of yours do not
suit me at all.” Milliner blandly : “ Oh, madam,
as you grow old you must not expect things to suit
you. Try something comfortable.”
A Melbourne telegram to the S. M.
Herald says: “The woman Greer, who threw
herself off the Victoria-street bridge, was rescued
by a young man named Roberta. No reason can
be assigned for the rash act.” What’s the matter
with the Minister for Justice that he doesn’t call
upon young man Roberts to explain why he made
such a meddlesome ass of himself ?
“ Spirit of my hog-eyed grandmother look
down upon me !” exclaims the pious Chinaman.
“I swear ever to remember that the eyes of my
ancestors look down upon me from the other
world, and I shall one day have to give account
to them of the glory and honour of the Army,”
calmly says the young German Emperor William.
Considering that with the exception of the young
tyke’s late sainted pa (vide Australian daily Press)
not one of the Honenzollerns ever did anything to
warrant their pegging out a free selection on the
Golden Shore, and considering also that they all
certainly committed crimes of blood enough to
warrant eternal incarceration in the dungeons of
the spiritually insolvent (not to pub too fine a
point on it), it would have been more historically
correct on young William’s part had he said,
“ The eyes of my ancestors look up at me from
he other world,” &c.


AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS
COMPANY, LIMITED.
Registered under the companies act, isei.
Capital; £50,000, in 50,000 Shares of <£l each.
Payable by Deposit, 2s. Gd. per Share on Application, and 2s. 6d. per Share on Adotment, Balance by Calls when necessary,
but no Call to be made within One Month of the previous Call.
20,000 Sib.©.res lra,Tre su.rea.dL3r "been, a-pplied. for-
Provisional Directors:
G. H. BENNETT, Esq. (ex-
Mayor of Richmond).
G. C. CLAUSCEN, E.q. (ex-
Mayor of Fitzroy).
F. GROSSE, Esq., Torringa.
R K. MONTGOMERIE, Esq.,
New Brewery.
W. MANNING FOSTER,
Esq., Melbourne.
L. KoNG MENG, Esq., Mel-
bburfie.
G: MAVgER, Esq., Mel-
bourne.
C. F. TAYLOR, Esq,, 8.A.,
Melbourne.
JOHN ROWAN, Esq., J.R.,
Merchant, Mount Gambier.
G. M. PICKLES. Esq.. Pickles
Carriage M Co.
COLONEL MORGAN, U.S.
Consul of America.
JAMES MOORE, Esq., J.P.,
Contractor, Melbourne.
W. H. MASTERS, Esq. (W. H.
Masters &Co., Importers).
. »
- • -?
■■
-if*
' ' •
im
m
ip
ELECTRIC PRO Emm
OFFICE :
NICHOLSON CHAMBERS, BWANSTON STREET.
Bankers:
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors:
Messrs. TAYLOR & RUSSELL
Architect:
GEO. R. JOHNSON, F.V.I.A
Auditors:
HOWELL & MUEHELL.
Broker:
W. B. LOVERING,
Nicholson Chambers.
Secretary:
T. N. CURNOW
THE AUSTRAL PARK & RECREATION GROUNDS
LIHVEIT-EID.
PROSPECTUS.
A Syndicate having purchased a large estate, beautifully situated on the banks of the Yarra, and close to the
city, have decided to convert it into a People’s Park Garden and Recreation Grounds. Melbourne being the only City
of any magnitude that does not possess grounds of a similar character.
OBJECTS.
It is proposed that the grounds shall contain every form of amusement that can possibly conduce to the
thorough rational enjoyment of the people ; these will include an Aquarium, Aviaries, Ferneries, Fountains, and
Ornamental Waters. The grounds will be laid out by an experienc'd landscape gardener, and planted with the
choicest flowers, shrubs, and trees, thus forming a charming r ‘sort where families or pic-nic parties could, at a small
charge, enjoy the beauties of nature and art, now only within the reach of a few of our more favoured and wealthy
citizens. Lawn Tennis Courts, Bowling Greens, and Archery Grounds will be provided for the visitors. It has been
suggested by some of the Shareholders tnat Bowling Breens and Lawn Tennis Courts should be added to the
attractions of the Gardens, and that the Grounds should he of a thoroughly neutral character, thus all Inter-
national Club Matches can be played on a Lawn and Court with all the latest improvements, so that the local
team may not have the advantage of knowing the Ground or Courts’ peculiar points, as against the visiting team.
TO CYCLISTS.
The finest Bicycle Track in Australia will be formed, so as to enable our amateur-cyclists either in private, or
in public performances, to compare their time records with those of England and America.
ELECTRIC RAILWAY.
Arrangements have been made with an eminent American firm of engineers to light the whole of the grounds
and buildings with electric lamps, and to lay down an electric railway to convey passengers around the gardens.
Light refreshment bars, and an efficient staff of waiters will be provided, and patrons, if they wish, can be
served in the numerous alcoves, ferneries and arbours.
TO MERCHANTS, MANUFACTURERS, WAREHOUSEMEN, Ac.
One of the main objects of the Company in forming these grounds is to cater for the increasing annual pic-
nics given by the warehousemen, merchants, manufacturers, &c., it being a well-known fact that, within 10 miles of
this city of Melbourne, there exists no spot where these gatherings can take place with any degree of pleasure, pro-
vision has been made in the shape of a large bwiquetting hall capable of accommodating two thousand people.
Kitchens, cloak-rooms, lavatories, <Sto., will be attached. A concert hall, large promenade platform with orchestra,
running grounds, bicycle track, and quoit, skittle and bowling grounds. With such great attractions and facilities,
and in such close proximity to the city, the management are confident they will gain the unanimous support of the
manufacturers, merchants, and others mentioned.
POSITION AND MEANS OF ACCESS.
The Recreation Park and Gardens are situated oa the banks of the Yarra, in a sheltered locality with lovely
surrouadings, and are easy of access by either railroad, tram, or river ; far those who prefer the latter mode of tra-
velling, steamers will run at short intervals between Prince’s Bridge and the grounds throughout the day and
‘evening.
ENT E RTAIN M EN TB.
The grounds for evening entertainments will be made very attractive by the aid of the electric light and illu-
minated fountains with changing tints, beautiful effects will also be produced by crystals, lime-lights, coloured glass
globes, Chinese lanterns, and different forma of Oriental decorations A vreat feature will be made of the grand pyro-
teobnical displays which will be seen on and near a large sheet of ornamental water, backed by a stage and scenic
representation 400 feet long. Noble terraces and slopes, also a grand stand will be constructed in front of the lake,
affording accommodation for twenty thousand people, A plateau will be formed on the summit of the terraces, on
which will be erected an imposing Byzantine pavilion 150 feet long.
A Bijou Theatre will be erected, and the Company propose to negotiate for any novelties suitable that may be
obtainable in the colonies, Europe, or America.
CLUB-HOUPE.
The Company also intend to bu’ld in a commanding position a Swiss Chalet, containing all the latest
improvements and conveniences for a Club-House. Members to be elected from amongst the shareholders, and they
will possess special privileges for a small annual subscription.
INVESTORS.
In placing the balance of the shares before the public, it is almost needless to remind them of the enormous
sums of money spent annually in out door amusements, such as racing, bicycling, fire-work displays and other sports,
and the profits derived from these gatherings are something enormous. It is also well known that they take place, as
a rule, under the most disadvantageous circumstance, there being no other attraction than the actual performance in
hand, and in nearly every oa»e, not half sufficient protection against either sun or rain. As an investment it is far
preferable to any mining or chance speculation. The receipts from the gates and the rents derivable from letting
the various portions of the grounds must pay handsome dividends, and perhaps the greatest feature is that the
Shareholders have an Interest in the Freehold of the Land Itself in proportion to the number of shares
they hold, and when it is considered that this large block of land is within Two Miles of the General Post Office,
and will cost the Company £17,000 ; its value in a few years will be almost Incalculable.
OPINION OF THE REV, DR, STRONG.
RECREATION FOR THE PEOPLE.
(To the Editor of the Age.)
Sir, —I have read with interest your article on Saturday last on recreation for our working-classes. The sub-
ject is one well worthy of attention. Would it not be well if something corresponding to the German Bier Garten
were adopted h°re ? Those who ta"e lived in Germany can appreciate the Bier Garten institution. In some modified
form it might, perhaps, with advautagehe introduced here. The great obstacle is the difficulty of obtaining a suitable
place for a Bier Garten, where, of an evening or afternoon, paterramilias and bi« household might spend a pleasant
hour or two, listening at intervals to good music. In our public gardens th°r« is a d’fficul yin the way of charging
ent ranee money without which a Bier Garten cannot be maintained very well; and land being, unfortunately, per-
haps, in the hands of private spectators, not a foot is to be had for such public purpose*, except at a large price. If
some philanthropic, and at the same time wealthy, citizen would take the matter up, I think he would confer a great
boon on many who are compelled m live in the city, and who really have no place of resort with their families on a hot
a'ternoon or evening, un'ess they trudge off to Brighton or St. Kilda, to broil for a few hours on the beach, at con-
siderable expense if there is a family.
Yours truly,
CHARLES STRONG.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
THE PROPOSED AUSTRAL PARK RECREATION GROUND.
Extract from the “ ARGUS,”
Mention has previously been made of a project in hand for the providing of a pleasure resort which will add
to the popular and reputable attractions of the metropolis The undertaking referred to is prompted by the Austral-
park Recreation Ground Company, who, having acquired nine acres of land abutting on the river at Sou h \arra, pro-
pose to lay it out ornamentally and erect on it handsome buildings, such as are found in attractive public gardens of
many of the old world cities. The idea is to establish a jilaoe of daily-amusement, available to visitors at a moderate
rate of admission, but it is contemplated to wholly let the park for such large pio-nic parties as may occasionally think
fit to engage it. The site is that of the old vineyard immediately opposite Law, Sumner, and 00. s Greracrne nursery,
and the land will cost the company £17,000. It has a frontage to the river on its northern boundary of 750 ft., and the
railway line forms its eastern boundary Tor a similar length. Mr. G. R. Johnson, architect, Little Collms-street, has
been entrusted with the preparation of plans, and it is intended that the work shall be finished m time for the opening
of the Exhibition next August or September. The designs provide for three entrances, one from a capacious nyerside
landing-stage at the north west corner of the reserve, and: two on the south side, namely, at Murphy-street and Darling-
street. The latter entrance will be about five walk from South Yarra station. A lake of considerable
dimensions will be a feature at the north-east corner of the ground, behind which will be a large fireworks stage.
Extending from the Darling-street entrance, there will be a drive giving a sweep around the lower portion of the
park. Overlooking the drive, the large lake, and the fireworks stage, a grand stand will be constructed, capable of
accommodating 5000 persons. On terraced ground to the rear of that will be budt in brick and cement a large
pavilion, containing a dining-hall 200 ft. long. The promenade in front of this will give a commanding view of the
entire park. Other permanent structures include an octagonal platform 100 ft. in diameter for ' al fresco concerts, a
bnou theatre near the river entrance, and at the south-east corner a large clubhouse, in the style of a Swiss chalet.
Along the south and west boundary fences a series of summer houses will be placed, and no expense is to be spared in
order to give to the gardens a tasteful and elegant appearance. Operations are expected to be begun m earnest forth-
with, and some progress has already been made in enclosing the eastern boundary.
Extract from Leading Article in the “AGE.”
There is not much fear of Australians ever becoming as absorbed in daily drudgery as the kinsmen in
America. Our blue skies offer a protest against it. As holidays go now, there is many a hard-working lather or
mother of a family to whom they only bring a change of occupation. This is in itself valuable, but it is not recrea-
tion The a°pecb presented by pleasure-seekers on one of our steaming Australian summer days—parents hampered
with the care of a possd of children dragged about to places which fail to interest them—cannot be viewed with com-
plete satisfaction. It is easy to picture holiday enjoyment of a vastly superior kind. On the Continent of Europe,
especially in the Sunny South, artisans and peasants in the painting expeditions, and in their social gatherings,
manifest none of that weariness so commonly perceptible among our excursionists. Family cares sit more lightly
upon them. What is wanted for our workers is to remove some of these cares Where is the charitable
organisation which will immortalize itself hg establishing an airg, cheerful and atlracliue crccho in Melbourne
