

ondon
l \jj
TAILORING COMPANY
OPEN !
AT THE
Corner of Sydney Arcade, George Street
and AMERICAN TAILORING COMPANY have BRANCHES nearly
all over the; World !
50s. SUITS k $3 PANTS
tDa.e Tails: of 537-d.2n.e3r !
Leave your Measure EARLY, so as not to be Disappointed.
SIX EMINENT CUTTERS CONSTANTLY EMPLOYED!
>ring Company in existence have earned such a World-wide Reputation as the
London & American Tailoring Company.
Call and Inspect the Largest and Most Varied Stock in Sydney of
■£®:r Pattams aan.cS. Clxart.
A
Feme & Norman McLennan
Managing Directors.
- - LONDON, NEW YORK, VICTORIA, SYDNEY.
HEAD OEEICE—
ASINGHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C,
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
ardman Bros.
ANUFACTURERS
Gotor^Sr/fi/pj
aa/o
Trcacii
RFf/NfRS
IIKP.EfII%LM
h€a& &Ffsc£ 3. Factory WiWTowN
BRANCH. JZFOPCF S r SYQNCY
■Waver ley Hotel,
OOLLINS-PLACE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
iamfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MBS. M. COLEB, Proprietress.
Business Announcements
s
SO
X
SIR ROGER
£0
Z
o
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office:
f©WNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
CHRISTIE’S
PlUm EMPLOYMENT AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
iolicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
fIOTSEA-WATERBATHS.
SHADY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Fains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and its after effects.
She curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marv silane. Fitted with Marble Baths.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS, We mean cured,
not merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures all
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
and DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
It is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Business Announcements.
HE
REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
r
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, ana eondeaaing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies map be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail bp the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kent-strMb.
T> M. RILEY
<iate of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY,
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of willß, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Rents and debts collected. From R. M. R.’s long experience
in the Deteotive Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and establii hed agencies in ail parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &c. A oopy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Sijs Fenny
Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
m
u
v
B CAN
B.
RECOMMEND
. gEUG^NE’!
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
Ad the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
la few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
Millar, carter and co„
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
a lomimf mm
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Dolorkux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTH AM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
Thu Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10s.
CUBE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous -bs-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the M jdical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. k. BOSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
[631 George-street, only.'
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., RIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c
<o
c
s
IRONMONGERS
<r>
<*/
t*
o
4
<5
REG
%
H
5>
Bails’ SsmtigHLaoßma, AVaa BaT^*m\»Y®axs\
KIjiKCTKO -BTLATBJD WARK, CTJTIiHR’X, looia, \
GAS COOKING STOVES I—BEQNIS FIiKTCHER’S 3BAKB. & WALKKR'B
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &c,, Sec,
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! a
AGAINST ALL BIS* P
BY TAKING
ROSE'S FLUID
gecre
It Cook the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of th®.
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OT
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c,, accompanying each
TAKE ONLY KBUS#
Sold in Bottles at is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. .
Wholesale Agents, Messrs, ELLIOTT
Giticuitf
-
5*
ificsema on Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
KIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
s^ssom:
vSa
*JF
PIMPLES roSCROFUI^
TmBMGURIim HUMORS, Humiliating Knip-
Jii’ tions, Itching and Burning Skim Torture*,
loathsome Sore*, and every specie# of Itching,
Scaly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
WBfi Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
of Hair, from infancy to old age, ar© cured by
Outicuba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
fiatarnally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Sqaf, the
£3B*at Skim Cure* and Beautifier*, externally.
Etching and! Burning Skin Diseases,
Baker* 5 , Barber*', Grocer*', Washerwoman’s Itch,
Stalling Pile*, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
C® both *exea, instantly relieved by .a warm bath
Cuticuba Soap and a *ingle application of;
'CPvmcUBA, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
clailjr* with three dose* of Cutiouba Resolvent,
speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skim and
Ctaalp* when all other means absolutely fail.
A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
OTith Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
solvent, Also, one hundred Testimonials, eol-
■imnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
i?#peat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
!?®r years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Save been obliged to shun public places by reason
isf my disfiguring humors, have had the best phy-
sician*; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
ao relief until I used the Cuticuba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
so pure as a child's. Send for our sixty-four page
9 ss How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases,’*
Australian Consignees,
■at. Towns Xr. fin.. W*>w-
/IOTIOTJBA ESSOLVBB
vj fler, Diuretic,, and Aperient* /“"i Jfo
and Perspiration of all
Elements, and thus removes th e aoO po
it cures speedily, permanently!) ®“
Cftrtictira, the G-bkat Ski®'
Jelly for external uae), instant ”
Inflammation, clears the Skin *
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys y e * n
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discbaos,
stores the Hair, and beautifies
€»ticnur» Soap, an exqui* jp%‘
and Toilet Requisite, prepared ,
indispensable in treating Skin t
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly
m
burn, and Bough, Chapped, or <
Onticnra Remedies are
Purifiers and Skin Beautified
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other {e e(i pi
table poison whatsoever C 1 1;' 1 ,, g,( m /■,
by the Analytical Ohemitf* /j?
setts,
Was Sale by all retail ehen
throughout Australia, r'
SJoAir.ud, CtmeOßA, 50 cents p e ;
CtmccßA Soap, 25 cents i.-goJ'’
inc l do jsp, 15 cents; Ctmcuß*- **
per buttle,
Pbbpasmp *t ***
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL,
#*'
THE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and others-,^ (5
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study. OpP^ei' 3
Hall. Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables, L
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE BOXES.
J. J. FALLON, Pr«


The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 435.
SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1888.
Price, 6d,
His Emine[?] The Chow’s Patron.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
n 70 a
Half-yearly - r r
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling- which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted, regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to. residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
ihSjZaUetca.
SATURDAY,- JUNE 2.
The British Imperial Heathen.
Thirteen months ago The Bulletin, in an
article entitled “ The Federated Chinaman,”
prophesied future Chinese complications as
the inevitable result of the political connec-
tion between the new land of Australia, and
the old, sordid, mercenary Empire of
Britain; and foreshadowed in the following
words the day when the Mongol, on the
strength of the citizenship which England
sella to all-comers, would defy Australia to
bid him go
“ The coming Mongol—the Yellow Brother of the
Future as distinguished from the yellow agony of the
present—is a being who has hitherto leceived hut little
attention in Australia. But the progress of events in
Burmah and the extension of the British territory towards
the Mongol borders must shortly bring the Empire into
closer relation with the Chinese nation, and the noble
labours of the bankrupt Mortim hr Franks wand others of
his tribe- if blessed with ultimate success—promise to
improve these new relations, and place the Yeilow Man in
Australia upon an entirely new and unspeakably objec-
tionable footing. The Jubilee Chinaman of 1887 will
blossom under the fostering influence of Imperial Union
into the Federated Chinaman of future years, an indi-
vidual whose apologetic biandness has been rubbed off by
Act of Parliament, and whose tendency to self assertion
is encouraged by the knowledge that he has received Im-
perial recognition as a man and a brother, and this corn-
in''- Asiatic deserves a certain amount of notice. When
heroines he will come to stay, and a Mongol who has
come to stay must necessarily be an object of interest.
Moreover, the continued presence of this loathsome
death’s-head will be one of the inevitable results of Im-
perial Federation, and it is wort 1 - while, therefore, to
study the appalling spectre which—if the party of
* Loyalty ’ should prevail will one day be chained to us
like a corpse to a living heing, as well as to devote a little
further attention to the policy which promises to make
this leprosy-stricken pilgrim a fixture in the land.
The Federated Chinaman has gained
strength since these words were written.
Amid all the stormy confusion of the past few
weeks this Incorporated Heathen has sat
peacefully beneath the shadow of Britain’s
imperial banner, and smoked his pipe and
grilled his dog, and dreamt pleasant dreams
of his flowery home in the far-off Mongol
land, and smiled at the impotent rage of the
abject “white devil,” who, even in his
wildest frenzy, d area .lot cast him ofl. With
a somnolent, leaden eye he has gazed on the
political gyrations of Mandarin Papkes, and
has rightly concluded that Mandarin Parkes
doesn’t matter much. In his own dull
Chinese way, he has understood that up in
the assemblage wheTe the white man tears
his hair' about pieces of paper that are
written all over in strange characters, and
then goes out and drinks and comes back and
tears his hair some more, and where one
man starts talking as soon as the other is
done, and it all ends in nothing, the incom-
prehensible European w r as sitting up late
over a Bill which had something to do with
the Chinaman, but for all this the Federated
Mongol cared not one diminutive “cash.”
As a British subject and an Englishman by
Act of Parliament he rose superior to mere
Australian law, and to him Mandarin Parkes
was only an empty voice issuing from be-
neath the ftrange hat which the white man
wears as a sign ( Miis deguadatim, and by
which Joss will know him on the last day
that his soul may be lost for ever in a future
state.
* * *
The British Chinaman has been recog-
nised hitherto in all anti-Mongolian legisla-
tion, and the various Acts passed to restrict
the southward march of the sons of the dead
Confucius have all missed their mark in con-
sequence. And for this same reason the Act
of 1888, should it ever be inscribed in th 9
labyrinth of the New South "Wales Statute
Book, will be, in some degree, a failure like
its predecessors. It was introduced in a burst
of impotent fury for the purpose of exclud-
ing the yellow man for ever from the shores
of the New World, but for all practical pur-
poses it is of little more value than a pawn-
ticket as a barrier against the rush of an
angry sea. The naturalised Chinaman who
has inherited from the British Government
the privileges of citizenship is excluded from
all its penalties and disabilities, and the
countless Anglo Chinese race which is grow-
ing up in Hong-Kong, the Straits Settle-
ments, Borneo, and other colonies, and
which will shortly take root in still greater
numbers in Burmah, where the natives of the
soil are fast being exterminated, is at liberty
to invade Australia as before, provided each
soiled Turanian carries along with him the
dingy scrap of paper which sets forth, truly
or falsely, he is a born British subject with-
out being any the less objectionable by reason
of the privilege. Clause 19 of the Bill
which I'aJvKEs built is a weird commentary
on Australian patriotism as viewed in the
light of Imperial grovel
“ 19. Notwithstanding anything in this Act contained,
any Chinese arriving in the colony who produces evidence
to the Collector of Customs or other duly authorised
officer that he is by birth a British subject, shall be
wholly exempt from the operation of this Act, and a cer-
tificate of the Governor of any British colony or of a
British consul shall be sufficient evidence of the claim of
such Chinese to exemption under this section.”
If the object of the New South Wales
Assembly was to assert the rights of a free
people it might as reasonably have suspended
its Standing Orders for the purpose of pass-
ing a pair of worn-out boots through all their
stages in one sitting and have dropped the
Chinese Restriction Bill of 1888 through the
back window to the contemplative goat.
The superstitious respect of Australian
legislators for the name of British citizenship
is an emotion which defies analysis. The
rag of paper which the incoming Shoo
Fly carries in the recesses of his spacious
trousers, or concealed in the bowels of
his queer hat, or interred in some other
part of his clothing, declares, in effect,
that he has been transformed into an
Englishman' and a brother ; but the bearer
of this certificate is obviously the same
obnoxious idolator whose signature used to
resemble a chaos of warring tea-chests in the
days when he dwelt beside the Hoaug-110.
In exchange for a cheap perjury and a small
fee he is provided with a document setting
forth that the lily has been officially painted,
and this inky fiction being duly initialled by
the department which is entrusted with the
duty of changing the leper’s spots he is
written down as a white man, and held by
the law—which has been ably defined as an
ass —to be such ; but for every purpose apart
from legal foolishness it would be as reason-
able and as effective to give a certificate to a
horse formally declaring it to be a cow as to
attempt to transform the crouching Oriental
into a sturdy European by recognising him
to be what he is not and what he never can
become. The rights of British citizenship
can be bought by anything a little higher in
the scale of morality than the ape, and the
recognition of the Chinaman’s privilege
means nothing less than the total
abandonment of our claim to be a nation
with a national life and national aspirations
of our own.
• * *
The refusal of Australia to regard the
adopted British leper as anything but what
centuries of national petrifaction have made
him may —or may not—involve this country
in a conflict with England ; in that matter
Australia must take her chance. China is
even now awakenings —in a political though
not a moral sense —from the stupor which
has benumbed her faculties for ages, and
with her awakening the tide of Mongol emi-
gration southward grows larger and ever
larger. So long as Britain, to her own
eternal shame, is willing to adopt the
tainted Mantchoorian, and so long as Aus-
tralia, in a spirit of slavish subservience, is
prepared to open her gates to the Asiatic
merely because a distant kingdom has en-
rolled him among her citizens, no legal mea-
sures which can be devised will serve to keep
the blood of the new nation pure and un-
defiled.. To England the Chinese question
is a matter of profit and loss ; the Turanian’s
vice, ignorance, and superstition all pay
lavish dividends to the Empire which claims
the Bible as the secret of its greatness ; his
foulness, his servility, a,nd his heathenism
are coined into money, and discounted and
organised and re-organised and floated into
shares and liquidated and financed upon and
bought and sold and imported and exported;
and no question of national sentiment is
concerned in the growing association of the
old, decayed, diseased monster of the East
with the younger and more vigorous life of
Europe. But to Australia the problem i||
one of life or living death, and her sons hav#>
to choose between the establishment of af
great nation and a new life, or the founding;
of a mongrel community, old even in itfflj
youth and decayed in it's very infant®
Already a course of intermarriage has coim
menced which is slowly and imperceptibly
sowing the seeds of future degradation, arid
so long as the Mongol is allowed to retain
his hold upon Australia, so long will this
process go on with,| ever-increasing rapidity.
Constant association with the now despised
leper will make him more familiar and less
repulsive ; the enforcement of sanitary laws
in the Chinese dens of Australia will give
him somewhat of the outward air of a
civilised being, and will diminish that senti-
ment of personal loathing which does so
much to keep the two races apart ; and
thus a system of hybridisation will begin
which will slowly yet surely taint the
comparatively pure blood of the Caucasian
race and fill Australia with an effete, semi-
Oriental nation that can never rise to
greatness until in the slow couise of cen-
turies it has outgrown the burden of Chinese
tradition and carved out for itself a new
destiny. The naturalised British Chinaman
is as great a bane as his brother fresh from
the slums of Canton. The hog which
wallows in the spring may be called by
another name, but it is a hog none the less,
and Australia, by recognising the fiction
of British citizenship, is giving away her
right to keep herself clean. Queen Yictoria’s
Chow is washed no cleaner than his father
was before he took the oath of allegiance,
and if he were it would matter little.
Twenty centuries of history cannot be re-
moved with soap and water, and it is these
centuries which have made the yellow
idolater what he is. Possibly in 2000 years
more he may have worked out his redemp-
tion, and when he has the Australian can
associate with him on equal terms. But not
till then.
* * •
. Mere racial hatreds cannot last for ever.
The mutual loathing between Israel and
Egypt, though founded on centuries of
wrong and oppression, quickly died away.
The scorn of the Greek for the barbarian,
the Roman for the Asiatic ;• the hatred of the
Saxon and the Norman, the Crim Tartar’s
detestation of the Russian, and a hundred
other national feuds which once split the
world asunder, have all vanished from his-
tory ; and, similarly, the Australian’s dislike
to the Chinaman—the slender sentiment
which alone saves the white race from inter-
mingling freely with the tainted tribes of the
Buddhistic adventurers —will fade in the slow
course of years, and then the purity of the
Aryan race in this continent will be a thing
of the past.' The blessings of British rule—
whatever these apocryphal blessings may be
—are a miserable excharge for the preserva-
tion of a nation, and peace itself —supposing
the issue to lie with Australia’s decision in
this matter—is bought too dearly by a policy
which fouls the life-blood, of future genera-
tions and infuses into their veins the sluggish
fluid that warms the hearts of a petrified
and animalised race.
o * •
Therefore we denounce Sir Henry Parkes’
Chinese Restriction Bill as one more addition
to a long list of comparative failures. The
Chinese subjects of Britain are multiplying
fast ; in Singapore and Hongkong the time
is near when they will crowd each other into
the sea ; in a few years, more the Federated
Chinamen promise to far outnumber the
Australians themselves ; and while the
road to the south is left open they
will continue to pour in. \ et, com-
pared to the apathy of Victoria and
South Australia the action of the present
New South Wales Government is energetic
and almost statesmanlike. The burden of
“loyalty” hangs heavily on this continent ;
a hundred years of ceaseless “salaam” to
the beloved mother-land has inspired her
with a servile reverence l 1 for eveTyhi.bg which
affects to be English, the
man who-.e dirt is sane the officii.
i his
heathen must go back wr hence he came.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cardinal and The Chow.
The die is cast, the Rubicon is_ passed, the fiat has
gone forth, and the Chinese Question has received
its death-blow from the the logical blunderbuss of
Cardinal Moban. Young Australia is henceforth
to welcome the slant-eyed leper as a long-lost
mother-in-law, and throwing h<=r round arms
about the saffron-tinted and bony neck weep tears
of joy upon, the grimy bosom of the Mongol. The
guardian of the collection-plate is not yet dead,
and when he heard about the troubles of the poor
Chow he arose and spake. The whisper, shooting
with electric speed through the- realms of infinite
space, entered the gigantic ear of the Church,
roused into activity that infinitesimal molecule of
semi-masticated jujube which it is pleased
to call its “brain,” and has at last been
made manifest to worldly ears through the in-
spired lips of His Eminence. Listen : ‘ The
action by which this country has endeavoured to
get rid °f the Chinese is unchristian.” Probably
it is, but it nevertheless bears a striping resem-
blance to the action of (i.opA chosen people when
they drove the tribes of Canaan out in order to
rob"them of their land. There are certainly some,
differences. For instance, the Jews were the in-
vading; .slacked were
hfigiiting iti-their owin'Country in the.case where
k . Providence intej.-fosed, while.: the ojspfosite is the
fact with.the Australians and the'Chinhse. Again,
we do not prupsiA to smite the meek and un-
Mhikeo 1) in and thigh, Aiigr to utterly
iPlpr off
nuudens among us, or vo give; an J P or '
tion of said divided maidens up to the
sole and exclusive use of the Tabernacle. As to the
agitation being, as alleged by the Cardinal, “ got
up by loafers,it is a somewhat surprising fact that
until the Cardinal spoke the aristocracy and the
clergy have been remarkably silent on the subject;
Further on in the Cardinal's Confession of Faith
we find that “there is plenty of work for men
who want it at 7s. (>d. and Bs. a day, yet many
prefer loafing about and starving for the purpose
of keeping up a trades-union." The Cardinal can
at least claim originality of thought. The idea of
a man who would prefer starvation to Bs. a day
probably never before occurred to any mortal man
other than a liai son or a lunatic. But right here
we bang our intellect against another chunk of
wisdom and a twelve-by-ten smile of ineffable
peace spreads itself over our features as
a brilliant idea hits us with the force
of a Spokfokth-slung brick.' It appears that all
the Chinese want in order to make them one of
the greatest powers on earth is the “impress of
Christianity.” Now, let us act on this at once.
Let Cardinal Mohan and all his parsons, curates,
deacons, etc. etc., unto the forty-ninth generation,
make a voyage to China and give the poor Chinese
this “ impress ” for which they are yearning. Let
them take all the Bibles and hymn-books and
collecting-plates and church bells with them—we
could on a pinch even spare a few Salvation Army
bands—and let them at cnce declare war to the
knife with Joss and all his relations. And if they
promise faithfully to do this in a reasonable time
and to start ‘ 1 impressing ” as soon as possible, we
will on our pare undertake to supply the necessary
rum, free of charge.
Linv and Equity.
The O’Connor v. North, case affords more valu-
able information as to the distinction between
legal justice and simple equity. In June, 1880,
O Connor sold 20 Broken Hill Proprietary shares
to North, the defendant firm of shareholders, on
condition of receiving a purchase-note dated three
months later, for 20 shares at £1 less per share.
To all intents and purposes Mr. O'Connor loaned
his sharebrokers 20 Broken Hills (receiving money
security) for three months, at £2O interest. When
the shares fell due they had so increased in value
that the brokers were unable to deliver, but they
asked their complaisant client to purchase at
market price and charge them with the loss.
Rather than do this Mr. O’Connor brought an
action to enforce specific performance of contract,
the New South Wales Chief Justice deciding in
his favour. Defendants appealed to the Bull
Court, and that mighty tribunal reversed the
former judgment, so that the unfortunate O’Con-
nor, in hot pursuit of his shares, has dropped a
round sum of legal expenses on the track. There
can be no question about the equity of Mr,
O’Connor’s original claim. In September, 188h>
he wanted his brokers to fulfill their signed con-
tract to return the shares he had obliged
them with three months before. He neves
undertook to buy those sliares back elsewhere
at an advanced price, on the chance of
his brokers making good the difference. But
the law, the immaculate law, now decides “that
he might, with the money which he would have
been bound to pay to the defendants had they de-
livered him the shares, have gone into the market,
bought the shares, and recovered the slight excess
of price from the defendants. ” O ! wise J udge !
How was O’Connor to buy those 20 shares with
“ the money which he would have boen bound to
pay ” if that money fell short of the market price ?
That same “slight excess ” was what he objected
to advance until his brokers chose to refund it,
and the law surely had no right to assume that
O'Connor could pay the excess, even if he had de-
sired. He undertook to find “the money,” &c.,
by a given date, but was not legally required to
possess an extra shilling in the world. How comes
it then that Mr.' O'Connor could not enforce his
bond to the very letter ? The law quotes a passage
from somebody’s book : “Where the person who
contracts to sell the stock does not either at the time
of making the contract or at the time fixed for its
completion possess any such stock, there is no in-
stance of a Court having entertained a bill for
specific performance.’’ Great Scott! The de-
fendants North did possess 20 Broken Hills
when they made the contract, for plaintiff had
just sold them 20. Yet it may be_ that
Judge Windeyer’s judgment, although obviously
stupid in construction when looked at by
an outsider, was. in strict accordance with
the law in its highest developments. Were
it never so cunningly expounded such law wouldn’t
be equity, and therefore it finds a solemn advocate
in the Argus. That faithful supporter of the
wrong thing thinks that the real
11 [ h-thsi easeJjjjhat to sharebroking transac-
<' u eat emptor will be found to
■imply. Certainly l- Buyers ought to beware.
Ail it was North who contracted to buy at a,
fi.wrt j;jce for a certain client by a
v ho. Are the Chinese ?
Pjl- _
CheonGj th,|k Missionary and lecturer in
Victoria, |“1 The Chinese and the Mon-
golians ar» ri, ended together. The Mongols
are very objectionable, the Chinese proper are not.
2. The Chinese do not want to emigrate, because
there is ample land for them in their own country,
and it is free. All vacant lands are open to any-
one who will reclaim them, and the reclaimer be-
comes without further ado the lawful holder of
what he reclaims.” General VVux.o Yung Ho.stated
also that the Chinese were a decent and peaceable
race, that they had no cause to emigrate in num-
bers, and that no Opinion could be formed from
the Chinese residing here, who were only of the
lowest classes. Xovv, putting these remarks tor
gether, we find the Chinese delegates saying in
effect that the Chinese proper find the mixed
Mongolian population a' nuisance, and ship them
off with their own criminals to these shores.
Briefly, what the Chinese themselves cannot
■ stomach they coolly demand that we, shall swallow
wholesale. An independent Chinaman, residing
in Victoria, says more. He vouchsafed the infor-
mation that nine-tenths of those in these lands
are criminals condemned to slavery and transpor-
tation ; that they are constantly under Chinese
surveillance, and are compelled to live and act as
they are bidden for a certain number of years,,
until they are free to return. Meanwhile the over-
seer or spy watches all their doings, and any breach
of the convict regulations is reported by letter to the
Chinese authorities, who punish the offender by
harder conditions of slavery, and usually by
flogging his mother. This precisely confirms the
inference drawn from the official utterances. The
following questions naturally arise : —l. Is the
Chinese convict population to be fed at our ex-
pense ? 2. Are we, who Were ready to go to arms
to prevent Britain from making a convict cesspit of
Australia, and who most assuredly brought England
to her senses by the fear of a rebellion —whether to
have been successful or not— are we to meekly
submit to Chinese convietism? 3. If the con-
vietism of our own race ii unbearable, is that of


'.ttitistrupV. ®? enor . rac 9 more or less so ?
chiefly 'm.iTu e nu isance consists of Mon-
*®!nselves ’w n „ \. se are too bad for the Chinese
everv their own statement, have
® e rsp ec j a [ s >t and diity, convictism and all
, ffeolutelv j K e - r J atK ' ns °ut of the question,
refuse having them
am 7 ■ Hongkong papers, inspired
**®jnre the otlt that d we Persist it
L?°t With pin C ' v . °h a few men in England
3 f re ™en in Australia to
coiio that °therl by Mongolian crime and
civ ' And if **?. another land may gain
fWto tK- English Government should
® al c °de do th t cons Meration, by what
»ate s ’. an d distnl'2 b , r ° thers - uncles, cousins,
atain ’Meed th,¥ Natives on tliat side of the
co„l' ,pres ume tn res Ponsible in the matter
si(h !lls ’ nephews lc t a te to their brothers, uncles,
distant relatives’on this
Went forth r ablb .ty and enterprise tlian
fc l PParent 0t t 0 build & uew home ? Had
Pp in m e n their Pn f ?° £> one forth we should
tan 1 K k* ourslf 8 ’ but because we have set
Hot! in snito S are forsooth their s-üb-
tothm 6 np=f ° ¥ e °i eare st showing as to
Perth are, it is evident that
°t to th e full f tla^ 10na l equality will permit
6 tul l for purification and defence.
Sih JiiiiaSK 11 subscribers to the fund in
tpby’n' 3 Publish h’pmf vu ab^ed s oidier of Rorke’s
Hs as r ' yr nes,lvi a „'l a balance-sheet drawn
Pnndprl CUst odian nf y 2u °T arramatta, who kindly
Wg U P date i s<? -> fund - The amount ex-
HeS ' lll Wt? £ 79 3a : 3d., and £74 14s. Dd.
0, 6 paid over to Mr. Roy in
IjjJ-' “ y UNEs lx ip",
Wt.l4, Dr. C ’ OIST WITU Editor of Bi lletin.
'* , " i - ?TT k C '' * ..d.
aa M : 3 ° °
“ •• 80 o o n fl p Bl u •• •• 517 0
u Butcher, baker,
grocer, &o. .. 10 2 0
I*4 oewing machine.. 713 0
Brapery .. .. 712 11
Ironmongery ~ 2G 4
furniture.. .. 19 1 0
Bemoving Boy to
Ash field .. 0 1(! 0
May 19.
Cash to Mrs. Roy
to date .. .. 22 If, 0
. - —_ Balance .. o i<; <)
fey. 80 o o
$L
’ ■ -
" ?3 is Q
V, att U
’ 24th 1888 OHARLES J- BYRNES.
o re Pubwp7^~
J°t>d hoisted a ?? nces by a Victorian
S&Cn dt °thinwf lb ° Urne lady that her
,\T' in s {? a } d for hv th bat r, one w bose early edu-
PtijH, as ."h a e Crown should dare to
%! %at 1011- The offending
Vl" ise > W(! U ' S tattler’s appeare< b was educated
feShooi 2 ?®t a most f xpense > but, assuming
“0 to C ! cho larSV )e^ tif ul doctrine. The
\ H c CXi? d ¥ every tie ot grati-
owes the ¥ th ? ’ Crown. ” To the
**? n lo bc > and the ,t SSm^s °t reading, writ-
Mefl/jtougfht of enterh? 01 ¥ e globes From
to k„ the rio-hj- a/’tate school he (or
oufm 0f fre « speech, and is
Psh¥not,u The iu the afore-
Hiihe * I'acteq tl, female’s doc-
SNofl be attyUtion it merits, for
ip ®°fter ber as an unique
SSI S olar be-Belf der ’ Either aK an ex-
v iiif 0 8 e for th’ °u as i'be product of a
{MI Hey ckle g e daughters of gentle-
M.j ' be tnn o 'J?® 6 she was taught
hn> e nts° r wild hl ¥, she has taught,
>2< p of ber vil llke to teach to
¥4' t {„ c Mo ll i2 tl o ne possiw 1 ’ It ,, lrf appalling
fo r f, 1 State snh i e la °ther of men
chL tlle protnnß° oh to be run by the
\S ije Vefe^ oUe r t ’ l ’ 0n If °L 1 - 0y f lt y to tbe
thft y likelv ,i„- tt this lady regards
V Revenue of « s ~~; t be Queen as sole
a < itliei{ a Pavf oc)d Uuneee’ n^n n d, even then she
Wof ?r the e f m c : s 'l ar dy. The colonists
n^ d Those coin a ¥ Q °f their children,
SKv Tlii for wh at ? ni T Would like to see
CSth' ll a vl SaXae ca el WOuld f ? fcch in an open
kSoh^king lew t° i lan bword ’ iudeed, is em-
ah,! infold m a ql ‘f upon the ignorant
©W? hay s rk tl on w i.°, a PPear as a kind of
cjbhfeoi S^eQlarvn f °¥ grants “ Crown”
Crovvu :V T>bnoan G-it.uks as
V(ile est‘ihr ,^ the inevitable
V ls, -d to-morrow l)rx-
f S^Mti2 ers arnj , <)U 'l be supported by
J dutiable
in jl! 1 its ,. 1 act T lSC ’ d suppression
a T bai Uent ll! 1 ? 8 ’ an d censured
mi sr ¥ d 111 Public meeting
S t, Wiai i V al 6s rtu Uatei v ? pr ' f' station. This
biui ? accT only too t° r tb e pohtical life of
oim p IUe ’ The only truth-
u r ° r n th aU the legiwla-
S£-« pages of Hansar,.,
p, auythi n dere c °uld be no re-
X e , Psople wft or anybody. Of
iJtwTMp , {4ed i ft «ern that a newspaper
it, Mhi 1 " WlhL ln ade 7/ T does not pay.
b«iVdn u h o4rffp bur BkuT or bush-
iJV fho pthat v ter ates u- ress to say of the
coyote J of the min-
» fol a w / r d-cat or a salted
*S,NtS. of ino¥i P ei 'i°dicilly and
hi! die 'a* wh 0(ln a r . ec titude around
*4 f 11 ' falutin . fl »P‘
1 i eVf ’ r , and the
V J itoS a ¥? f ( . mr birthright,
bfa\?° r °Usslv J^ ei 'ties, and other
¥¥ dfA^l&ht bltld ife 2 n a leading article,
V > sands , r K e P° r torial counter,
S\: sugar of Par-
' <>f political
tUe mollth
Nil* CtSat-Mie re Sll f a 7 lam desire for
IV? n bie at the
C M, "!: been 3 So
|\\ T Walbhhh dltGißij, pu blislied relating
« The m l,t 'agin¥! 1 All s retirement
S n (u 8u lt of ‘at tliis Coinmis-
Si sS been uiisunder-
Hi^ARQo H cgi NB( )-pj^ r v, d Vnlt , was
KhV3 l ty )V '; issuing. 2 T )bjected to
• *e r R 'nstrnctions on
th b T Bunutes of the
1 o tba t the President
Business matters
should be arranged by the Vice, with the promise
that all his decisions be subsequently endorsed by
the Commission. Mr. Sakgood, in short, was to
do the right thing right away, and get his col-
leagues’ formal approval at the first opportunity.
This being understood from the start, Mr. Sar-
good yet pretended that his hands were tied be-
cause he could do nothing without first appealing
to the President. On that ground, he resigned
his billet. A majority of the Commi-sion invited
him to come back and do, virtually, just what he
liked, upon the strength of which Justice Higin-
botham retired in disgust. When the scandal
first became public, only the Sargood story was
supplied to the Press. The President appeared
in print as a raging despot until he insisted upon
a few facts of the case being published. As Presi-
dent, Mr. Hh; in both am -was content to show the
shadowy nature of Mr. Sakgood’s grievance, and
as a high-minded gentleman, he declined to say
anything unpleasant. If anyone is dull enough
to think, that' this “misunderstanding” wasn’t
manufactured by the other side, and hasn’t been
aggravated by cunningly-concocted annoyances,
the late President will let anyone think what he
likes. The foremost man in Victoria (Governors
being classed among the gods) has washed his
hands of Exhibition management, and the Argus
scarcely troubles to conceal its joy over this miser-
able victory for the great Snob party.
Dr. O’Donnell, of Melbourne, recently read a
powerful anti-Imperial paper to his fellow Natives,
at a branch meeting of the A;N.A This
paper —logical as bright, comprehensive in details,
and skilfully put together—should be swallowed
and digested by those “loyal” Natives whose de-
votion to the Queen is a second-h and sentiment in-
stilled into their minds by worthy parents, said
parents having themselves left England while they
were still young, and regarded Her Gracious as a
solemn item in the Litany. The children of such
parents are brought up to believe that America is
a hot-bed of political patronage, corrupt judges,
and all-round jobbery. One passage from Dr.
O’Donnell's address will assist towards bursting
up this bubble blown by Tory cablegrams :
“ Whenever an American is met abroad
with an assertion that government in
the Republic is corrupt, he can safely say
that for one ounce of corruption there is a full
pound of avoirdupois in Britain; for every job
there, twenty yonder.” These are hard truths,
backed up by the incontrovertible evidence of
England’s Civil List. Where in America are to
be found ducal families which have absorbed mil-
lions in acknowledgment of their bastard origin—
princes drawing thousands for shadowy services in
sham positions—and nobles innumerable fatten-
ing, as John Bright put it, on a Government
system of outdoor relief ? The embezzlements of
all the American Mayors that ever lived wouldn't
total up to the sum annually squandered and
guz/.led by the corporations, guilds, and ancient
“ charities” of London.
In his recent celebrated address on “Literature,”
John Morley insisted upon the tentativeness of
politics. At best, he said, the science of Govern-
ment was the selection of the less of two evils. In
politics the right thing is seldom possible, other-
wise Mr. Dibbs’ amendment to Parses’ Chinese
Restriction Act has our hearty endorsement. The
very fact, however, that such an Act as Mr.
Dibbs proposed would never receive the Go-
vernor’s assent is enough to condemn it. The
amendment, which is National and Republican
enough to please any Australian —whatever Mr.
Dibbs’ personal views on the matter may be—is
as follows :
“ 1. That no legislation which does not provide for the
total exclusion of the Chinese immigrants will be accept-
able to this House. 2. That any legislation in regard to
the Chinese should, if possible, be the result of the united
action of the Australasian colonies. 3. That the Govern-
ment should withdraw the Bill now b-fore the Legislative
Council, which assumes to deal with the Cninese, with a
view of adopting the principle involved in resolutions
Nos. 1 and 2. 4. That this House is of opinion that it
would fail in its duty if it did not express its coniemna-
-1 ion of the late illegal acts of the Government in regaid to
the Chinese.” ,
Co-operation and Land [?]
Dear Bulletin, -Permit me to endorse the sen-
sible letter of “ Austral,” in your last is«ue, With
him, and with all who have fully understood the
economic discoveries of Henry George, 1 maintain
that, without the power of Monopoly, Capital
could not afflict Labour, and that if all land values
were taken to the State in taxation Monopoly
could no longer exist. It is only by preventing
Labour from getting access to natural oppor-
tunities, which abound in tenfold greater profu-
sion than the whole human race if left at liberty
could avail itself of, that the separate units of
Labour are forced into a competition with each
other for employment, which Capital naturally
takes advantage of. How could Capital, which is
the fruit of labour, be inimical, under natural con-
ditions, to that which brings it into existence ? If
the resources of Nature were everywhere thrown
open to such as would pay to the whole people the
fair value of such special natural advantages as
they wished to utilise, where could Monopoly get
a fulcrum ? Just as invention, the acquirement
of new knowledge in arts and manufactures, or
any other cause displaced Labour, it could find
new spheres of action. It could not be ordered off
the unused surface of the broad work! and bidden
to turn on itself and fight to the death in its own
ranks, as now. Nothing but the assumption that
the world is too small, or that wages are drawn
from pre-existing capital, would warrant a belief
that under Land Nationalisation injurious mono-
poly could secure a footing; and such assumptions
to-day wbuld justify the further assumption that
he who advanced them had not drunken of the
fountain of Knowledge. It is more than idiotic,
,it is criminal, to attempt, to fasten on Capital the
sins that arc Monopoly’s own ; and it is unmean-
ing bunkum to assert that Capital does not suffer
from Monopoly, or is not driven in its turn to
extract as much value from Labour as possible.
Rent is the force which keeps these two fighting,
and collects the gate-money. I cannot see how-
co-operation could do any good without Land
Nationalisation, or how competition is to be pre-
vented or lessened by it, under present conditions.
Those within any circle of co-operatiye producers
would benefit for a time, but as individual pro-
ducers found their markets narrowed, they
would be forced into corporation and competition
with the others, and the battle-field would be
widened out, that is all. And if the land were
nationalised, I can see no reason why competition
would be other than a great good, inasmuch as
any result of it would be divided between pro-
ducers and consumers. How could it be other-
wise ? Say land values were taxed away to-morrow
in New South Wales and all taxation taken off
industry. The result, I fancy, would be that the
sum now taken by landowners from Labour and
Capital as Rent would be divided between them
again. Wages and interest would be high, and
opportunities for employment practically un-
limited. This is so palpable (and this letter is
already so long) that I need not attempt to
demonstrate it. Say, then, that invention rapidly
decreased the necessity for human labour (and
please recollect that in doing so it would decrease
the cost of commodities). Say, if you want to,
that fifty thousand human workers were dispensed
with yearly. These would not be put into direct
competition with the others remaining in employ-
ment. The resources of the country would be at
their choice. Labour could not be forced to work
for a lower wage than it could’secure for itself by
occupying and using the best land then unoccu-
pied, and getting the whole of the return for itself,
not a mere tithe of it as now. And the cost
of commodities would be continually reduced
by improved production, which would mean
that consumers would be called upon to
give less dnid less labour in return for
the things they required. Every advantage
gained in knowledge, skill, invention and
science, would be an advantage to the whole
people, and competition, relieved of the deadli-
ness of a need that never rests, and the disability
of stone walls that fence it from the most generous
parts of the earth, would become a blessing.
Capital would show in its true features as the
friend, not the persecutor, of productive labour.
Now I want some of those who say that, even
under Land Nationalisation, Monoply could thrive,
to show, as briefly as possible, where it would
hurt anybody who could find employment as good
as the last any day, and command Capital to as-
sist him, as under such a condition of things he,
having the guarantee of two hands, and the cer-
tainty that the produce of them would come to
himself, assuredly could. I am, dear Bulletin,
Yours, &c., John Farrell.
Lithgow, May, 18, 1888.
The Heathen Chinee.
[A correspondent who cordially disapproves of
The Bulletin’s anti-Chinese attitude sends us
the following with a request for its insertion. We
consider the position of those who look with no
eye of favour on the Heathen Chinee to be so
strong and so just as to be practically unassailable,
nevertheless we are quite willing to commend the
latter portion of Mr. Gulliver’s verses to the
earnest attention of the Foreign-trade party]
A wave of virtue throbs alorig our shore —
The Larrikin and Hoodlum to the fore
Ride in, triumphant, on its ample breast —
Sad irony of Fate, —whilst all the rest
Look on, admiring, in the second place,
Following their leaders, blind to the disgrace.
Our shores are wide, our fields lack tillers, yet
We gnash our teeth, because we’re like to get
An alien handful- who will do the work
Which we, worse luck, are all too prone to shirk.
“ Death to the yellow stranger ! shall he dare
To breathe New Zealand’s unpolluted air !
To bring immoral customs—like a pig
To live, and seek alone some place to dig !
Our virtue'll suffer, and we hold that dear ”
So ’tis —at any price ; we need not fear
That any virtue we have got will fail—
’Tis small enough already. What a tale
This pig-tailed crew might tell, had they the art,
Perchance they have —Con Terns tyould start
In horror at the Christians’ rule of life,
Their vaunted love, whieh means but cut-throat'
strife.
These graceless Heathen ! better look at home—
For, we—we’ve not so much to boast of, come—
Th« Prostitutes and Drunkard haunt our streets,
Successful vice some sister knavery greets,
Sharp Practice is our watch word—truth a lie,
Our working god Respectability,
You’d hardly think if., —e’en our god’s a fraud—
A Brummagem production -so adored.
And yet our garments are so pure and white —•
Whitewashed, of course—that we deny the right
To these few waifs to dig amongst us here,
And earn a pittance which is oft full dear.
Has it then come to this ? We taught the world
Freedom’s proud l°ssons —we it was who hurled
Defiance at each despot—Freedom’s brood
Doing our work wherever freemen stood.
Are we to eat our words then,—give the lie
To what we are or have been ? Better die
And leave a place for nobler men than we
To carry out our farce of liberty.
Are we afraid ? Then say so—make it clear
That we are not the men our fathers were ;
But palter not with truth, or weakly feign
THe mock contagion of some moral bane ;
We don’t fear that—did we but scent some gain—
The least suspicion, say, of ten per cent.,
We’d hail the biggest horde o’er China sent
’Twould he a godsend to recoup our store
And keep the wolf of ruin from our door.
As for our souls we’d sell them any day
I f some one only would point out the way,
And tell us how to realise for cash—
Really this plea of saintship will not wash.
We mav deceive ourselves, but, not a doubt,
John Chinaman would shrewdly find us out,
And whilst we trotted forth Jerusalem
And our quite lamb like lives, he’d say, ahem ;
Borrowing the saimly phrase we teach him :
“ Damn,
Me jsabbse, this white man one topside sham.”
What brought these strangers here ? Let’s face
the truth,
Our greed of gold—our wanton acts, in sootli ;
We scented gain with our keen nose for trade,
So cunning treaties, as we thought, were made
In our own interests —British Interests—say ?
Opium and dollars did it, let us pray.
No doubt it seemed, we then had made a hit,
But now we find, too late, the biter’s bit.
We forced an entrance to their ports, and they
Demanded fairly equal right of way
To visit us—Proetrade-What’s sauce for me ”
(Our views of freedom don't at times agree)
Should cut both ways—but then, unhappily,
My freedom squares alone with what I want.
But if you claim the like, I say you shan’t.
Wring from the Heathen Chinee all we can,
Then, when he seek's a quittance—damn the man.
Such is our road to Heaven, if so--well,
We’d better try the shortest cut to h— !
E. H. GULLIVER. M. A.
Australasia’s Loyal Bards
Subjoined is an extract from a Victorian paper.
r Fhe unconscious humour of the thing has a subtle
delicacy which would be spoiled by comment
“ A Local Poet.— Few people in Echuea are probably
aware that they have in their midst a poet of exceptional
ability, but such is the case. The gentleman to whom we
refer is Dr. Alfred Percy Foster, the able chemist for Dr.
Eakins. This gentleman, it will he remembered, - com-
posed the beautiful song, ‘The Smile on a, Friendly Face,’
as sung with such great success by Mrs. Eakins, to whom
it was dedicated, at the recent hospital-fete concert. Dr.
Foster is now engaged preparing another song, entitled
‘Advance, Australia, Advanoe,' and, judging by the man-
ner in which he wrote the first-named song, a treat
is in store for the Eohuca public. It will be within the
recollection of our readers that in the early part of 1882
an attempt was made upon the life of the Queen, but
fortunately she escaped injury, and her assailant received
that punishment he so richly deserved. Subsequent to
this Dr. Foster composed a piece of poetry congratulat-
mg the Queen upon her escape. Copies of the poem were
forwarded to Her Majesty and other members of the
royal family. The following reply was received by Dr.
Foster from Buckingham Palace :—‘ Lieutenant-General
au' Henry F. Ponsonby is commanded by the Queen to
thank Dr. Alfred Foster for his letter cf' the 4tli just
Buckingham Palace, 7th March, 1882.’ Attached to this
is the seal of Her Majesty. Replies were also received
from the Princess Beau-ice and the Princess Mary)
Cambridge. The following are the lines of the poeiii
which were sent to the Queen, printed on white satin
Armagh, March 3, 1882.
hrom a N.Z. paper we clip the following equally
delicious morsel. The last paragraph of the letter
written by the “Poet Laureate of Westland
is so pathetic that a big lump comes into our
throat and our eyes suffuse with tears of sym-
pathy J
“The Poet Laureate of Westland. To the
Editor. Sir,—l have very little doubt that many
of your readers will be pleased to hear that the
loyal address which I composed in honour of Her
Majesty’s Jubilee has been duly laid before Her
Majesty by the Secretary for State for the Colo-
nies, and that Her Majesty has commanded his
Excellency the Governor to convey to me Her
Majesty’s best thanks for the address and the
loyal sentiments expressed therein. The follow-
ing is copy of the letter :
‘ Government House, Wellington, 25th April, 1888, Sir,
—With reference to your letter to the Governor on the
Bth December, 1887, I have the honour, by direction of
his Excellency, to inform you that he has received a
dispatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies,
stating that your address to the Queen on her Jubilee has
been duly laid before her Majesty, and that her Majesty
commands his Excellency to convey to you her best
thanks for the address, and her appreciation of the loyal
sentiments which it contains.—l have the honour to 'be,
sir, your obedient servant, Wm. Foiitescce, Secretary.’
“ This is highly satisfactory that after so many
delays it has reached the I loyal presence at last,
and received her Majesty’s approval of my loyalty.
What a pity it is Her Majesty does not know the
author s financial posit ion , .and what a boon a
small pension would be. —I am, sir. yours, &e.
John Cross, Poet Laureate of Westland.”
The Queen has sent lieiv photograph, with
autograph attached, 1o .Joe Cfaambemin, the
apostate radical. Joseph hast returned the com-
pliment by potting in his little howl for Imperial
Federation. Considering that the Pope wasn't to
be “ squared ” under a £lO,OOO present, we think
the Birmingham man should have stood out for a
portrait in oils.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.
Scarce has the knell of Garfield ceased,
The chaplets still are green,
When Britain’s heart is torn with pain
For her beloved Queen.
A cowardly wretch hath raised his hand
Gainst woman, mother, friend—
A nation’s cry proclaims the truth—
A nation’s prayers ascend.
With tears of sorrow and of joy,
Mingled praise and prayer
Are borne aloft on wings of faith--
Our Nation’s mother spare.
Oh, Gracious Queen, long may you live,
And peace be in your day,
Until your crown be changed for one
Which passeth not away.
Long may you reign in loyal hearts,
On loyal arms to lean,
While every voice and heart unite
To shout “ God save the Queen.”
We is H’eight.
After Wordsworth
( Whose word's worth no more than The
Bulletin's. )
1 met a boy without a shirt,
He was “ more than seven,” he said;
I scarce could see his face for dirt,
And dare not pat his head.
Mo shoes were on the horny feet
Of that neglected lad ;
His onion-breath was far from sweet—
It’s perfume made me bad.
“ Brothers and sisters, little man,
How many may you be ?”
“ You bet we’re h’eight,” the lad began,
And made a “ sight at me.
“ And are they well ? 1 pray you tell,”
He answered, “ We is h’eight :
There’s Mary Ann, and Jane, and Nell,
And then there’s me and Kate ;
“ And Jim is iii the pub. hard by
(Yer’ll see ’im in a jiff
He’s got a patch acrosst ’is h’eye),
And two of us’s stiff.”
“ There’s Mary Ann, and Nell, and Jane,
And you. and Jim, and Kate ;
I pray you tell me once again
How you can make it eight ? ”
Then did the gutter lad reply,
And gave a vulgar sniff,
•“ D’yer think as ’ow I ’d tell a lie !
I said as two wos stiff.”
“ But you’re alive, and can, my lad,
Pelt Chinamen with bricks ;
I f two are really dead, begad ;
Then ye are only six. ”
“ Their graves are dug, they’re nice and snug,
That grimy kid replied,
“ It’s bloomin’ rot to say they’re not-
-1 sor ’em dropped inside.
“ When things is goin’ slow in town,
And I am on the booze,
Upon the grave I chucks me down,
And has a quiet snooze.
“ And orfen in the mornin’, boss,
Wen I ’as time to spare,
Instead of goin’ for a doss
I h’eats my tucker there.
“ The first as snuffed was little Sam,
So full of fun and play ;
He tumbled underneath a tram,
And then he went away.
“ So he was buried in the ground,
And mother cried, yersee
He alius brought some money round
When he come ’ome to tea.
“ And one fine day a h’omnibus
Run over sister Loo ;
’Flie ‘ bobbies ’ brought her back to us,
An’ she was buried too,”
“ How many are you then,” I cried,
“ If two met such a fate? ”
The little urchin spat aside,
And answered : •“ We is h’eight.”
“ But they are gone, those two are gone,
They’ve reached the Golden (late.”
’Twas waste of time; the naughty boy
Said (using words I ’ll not employ)
“ Yer josser, we is h’eight.”


History of Botany Bay.
There is a fine well-crusted story told of a
certain bold free tyrant in old days whose
innocent delights at the expense of a virtuous
peasantry were sadly interfered with by
tendency on the part of a meddlesome elute 1
of prophets who dwelt in caves in tl
neighbourhood, to break out into the mo
rabid spasms of soothsaying, and other ui
gentle recreations. The periodical outburst
of these Cataleptic persons set the whom
district by the ears for a time, and th
deluded people hatched under their influenc
fleeting kind of public opinion, which
said to have taken the form of pikestave
and hayforks when the emissaries of th
bold free tyrant swooped down. But h
was a thoughtful person, this oppressor ; am
when not imagining new wickednesses h
could always put his quivering digits on th
springs of these popular disturbances. H
was humane, too, in his capricious way
when not in the vein for promiscuou
slaughter. “Let us hang a few prophets ! ’
he would say in his light way, and the resul
was always the return of the peasantry to a
more dutiful frame of mind. He thus cut
off public opinion at its source. His methoc
has always been very much in favour witl
rulers who find themselves out of sympathy
with the bent of the popular mind, and when
public opinion is going against them. 6nly
instead of hanging a few prophets the policy
is nowadays to gag the public Press.
* » •
This, as we have seen, is what Govcrnoi
proceeded to try to do. So long as
the official paper, the Gazette, merely
chronicled such of the official acts as would
bear the light, without daring to comment
in even the mildest form on the iniquities
and irregularities that went on every day,
and which it is everywhere the duty of
fhe public journal to decry and expose,' the
I less, such as it was, went on its way un-
molested. But when public opinion,
directed by capable heads and hands, began
to declare itself in a non-official publication,
vested interests were aroused, and a serious
danger to good government was at once dis-
covered. This was striking at the roots of
Law and Order,.and undermining the founda-
tions of society. It was necessary to hang
a few prophets, or at least to gag the Press?
This was the congenial task to which
Governor Darling addressed himself. When
the prosecutions against Dr. Warded failed,
and the official fangs were drawn by a pro-
perly-constituted jury, the proceedings had
been undertaken under some Acts specially
prepared by this respectable man and Ids'
advisers.
An infallible sign of an unhealthy sta
of public business and of the presence of
suspicious element in tilings generally,
an official attempt to stifle public enquiry
As the people look to the Press for the
information as well as for the publication <
their judgment on facts laid before them, tl
best and shortest method to render tha
judgment nugatory is to deprive it of tU
knowledge of facts to go upon first, and <
public expression afterwards. Public opiuio
is nothing without public expression; arc
opinion cannot exist if the publication o
facts is rendered hazardous or unreliable
llris is what is meant by the liberty of th
Press—not a claim to any privilege that th
public does not possess, and no sp.ecia
powers or prescriptive rights in any diree
tion, but simply the liberty to make knowr
what is going on, and to express a candi
judgment such as every individual is a
liberty to form thereon. ' Wentworth, Wai
dell, and Hall claimed no more than this
But this was exactly the liberty of wliic
Governor Darling was most anxious t
deprive them. At this point the old convic
officialdom and the awakening power o
public opinion first came into conflict.
* * *
Tbe Governor had already written home tr
Ijarl Bathurst, who was then Secretary o
State for the Colonies, complaining bitterly
of the attacks made on him in the public
Press. In that communication the case was
put strictly from the official point of view
and from the names of the first Legislative
Council already before the reader, there will
be no difficulty ip believing that the
Governor’s advisers most cordially concurred
with him in his statement of the case. The
result was that a despatch was received from
Earl Bathurst in November, 1826, in which
a suggestion was made to pass some colonial
enactments to deal with this vexed question.
( April 25 following a Bill was prepared
and passed by the Council, “ for preventing
th,e mischiefs arising from the planting and
publishing newspapers, and papers of a like
nature, by persons not known, and for regu-
lating the printing and publication of such
papers m other respects, and also for re-
straining the abuses arising from the publi
cation of blasphemous and seditious libels.”
Transportation was the penalty for a second
offence, under this Act, On May 3 another
Act was proposed, imposing a duty “ upon
ail newspapers and papers of a like nature
printed to be dispersed to the public.”
■* * *
It will be remembered, that, under the
Constitution introduced by Chief Justice
Iforbes, that official had the privilege of a
vote in the Council, and after a measure
was carried there, it became his further duty
to certify or not to its provisions, as he
thought fit, before it became law. Judge
Forbes was not at the meeting of the Coun-
cil at which this last measure was adopted,,
and on its presentation to him for signatur
ho refused his certificate on the ground o
its manifest illegality. The Governor
and again endeavoured to persuade or in
timidate the Chief Justice to give way, bu
always without success. A bitter conflic
ensued, in which the Chief Justice nobb
espoused the cause of justice and the populai
right, and honoured himself by his public-
spirited and disinterested action. What the
Governor failed to do by threats or per-
suasion he now attempted by slandering the
Judge to the Colonial Office, but Forbes met
and repelled all his charges. “I have been
appointed,” he said in one of liis letters to
the Colonial Office, “to discharge a sacred
dut3 T . 1 refused to certify the Governor’s
Bills, because 1 thought them repug’iiant to
law, because I felt 1 should compromise my
oath and my honour if I sanctioned them.
What legal righo lias tile Governor to press
me further, or to endeavour to alarm me
into compliance ? Does the correspondence
which passed between us in April and May
last present the calm, tire temperate* the
courteous application of one high officer to
another . , or is it the mandate of a
superior to an inferior, intimating his duty
and warning him of the peril of disobedi-
ence ? When the three judges' of Bombay
were brought to the consideration of the
same (question they discussed its merits in
open Court and decided against it, in the
heart of the Mahommedan' country. Iw as
called upon alone, under the bondage of
socresy— l will not, pursue the contrast T”
The Chief Justice found himself in con-
flict, not only with the Governor, hut with
the rest of the Legislative Council as well.
When this body was established, partly iii
deference to the exertions of Sir Janies
Macintosh and ex-Governor Brisbane, the
intention on the part of the Horne Authori-
ties-wa's to give the population of the colony
some share in the Government, which had
hitherto rested in the irresponsible hands of
Hie Governors alone.
The members of Coun-
cil were nominated by
the Crown, and a Go-
vernor like Macquarie,
or Brisbane during
the last year of his
rule, might have exer-
cised this right of
nomination julici-
ously, and with good
results to the colony
at large. No such
results were to be
expected from Darling,
however, and the first
Legislative Council
was, therefore, merely
a body composed of
Crown officials and
representatives of that
Vested Interest class
which first blossomed
into being under the
shelter of the New
South \\ ales Corps.
W hen we read of the
attempt to stifle dis-
cussion at this stage,
and to gag the infant
Press, we naturally
look for the name of
the man in this connec-
tion who has hitherto been always prominent
whenever the Vested Interests lie helped
to build up had an opportunity to exercise
their influence. And those who look for the
name of the übiquitous John Macarthur in
this connection will not be disappointed.
He is such a necessary part of every-
thing that is sinister in the history of
Botany Bay that the episode now under
notice would scarcely be recognisable
without him. He was Governor Darling’s
most active lieutenant in the Council, and
the proposals to stifle the newspapers in
their birth had his most enthusiastic concur-
rence. He out-heroded Herod in this
matter, and even went further than the Go-
vernor himself ; for lie actually proposed a
crushing tax of one thill mj ouch on every
copy of every newspaper published in the
colony. This was too much even for Dar-
ling’s distorted sense of justice. It was a
flight of imagination that required a trained
Botany Bay intellect to soar up. to, So the
tax was reduced to threepence. Macarthur
died during the term of the next Governor,
so that we will meet with him no more.
Through all this business, it is valuable to,
note the fact that every proposal to cripple
the advance, of the. colony either emanated
from, or received the most cordial support
of, the Vested Interest class, as represented
in the Legislative Council. Just as it
opposed the introduction of the jury system,
so it supported the attack on the freedom of
the Press, and so it will be found con-
sistently opposing.and distorting every mani-
festation of progressive public opinion to the
end of the chapter. .Of such are the Botany
Bay “patriots. It is satisfactory to have
to add that after the correspondence on the
newspaper tax had been digested by the
Colonial Office at home, a despatch was at
length received informing the Governor that
“ flip law officers of the Crown have reported
their opinion, that in. refusing to grant his
certificate to the Act for licensing news-
papers, Mr. Forbes correctly executed his
duty, and that the reasons assigned by him
for that decision were valid and sufficient.”
This despatch was a well-merited rebuff for
the Governor and his myrmidons, and the
Gagging Acta fall into abeyance. But the ha.
rassing nature of this conflict between his
sense of duty on the one hand and the
v ested Interest class and the Governor o
the other, proved a severe strain on th
health of Chief-Justice Forbes. He paid
visit home, and, strangely enough, considei
ing the way such honours were usually ap
portioned, he was knighted in recognition o: !
his high character and services. He returnee
to the colony and died soon after. Si
Francis Forbes was succeeded by Chief
Justice Dowling.
• * *
, Before he left Governor Darling succeedec
m making himself offensive to almost every
class in the community. This man was cer
tamly the most unpopular Governor who
ever held rule in New South Wales. At a
dinner given by the Turf Club in December,
1827, some speeches were made reflecting in
the most severe and direct manner On his
administration and on himself. When the
Governor’s health was proposed, according to
custom, the band played the significant air
of ‘ Over the hills and far away.” The in-
sult was marked} and even Governor Darling
could not fail to take it; He withdrew his
patronage from the club, and himself from
the colony in October, 1831. The populace,
which received him on his arrival in silence,
hailed his departure with cheers. Some of
the more demonstrative among the lower
classes of the population sailed round the
vessel m Which Darling and his family had
taken their passage, and these victims of his
misrule insulted him with their taunts there
as the vessel lay at anchor. Bonfires blazed
along the shores of the harbour as the ship
sailed away. The more reputable •in-
habitants were not so actively demonstra-
jvV°r > ie general feeling at Ralph
Darlings departure was one of a profound
sense of gratification and relief.
* * *
With the departure of this Governor the
second period of the history of Botaiiy Bay
may be said to close. In the first we saw
NEWS VERSUS NOOSE.
tlu; foundation of the colony, ancf its be-
ginnings taking shape. From the moment
that any form was discernible in the
inchoate material out of which the set-
tlement was first fashioned, the squalid
tyranny and oppression of the New
South Wales Corps on the one hand and
the hopeless misery of the convict classes on
the other were distinctly apparent. The
first 20 years was one chapter of conflict be
tween the Corps and the Governors, ending
in the temporary triumph of the Corps by
the deposition of Bligh. How the victory
was used it is not necessary to repeat. The
chief point to be observed is the foundation of
a \ estedj Interest class. The manner in which
that interest formed and developed requires
no further explanation. With the arrival
of Macquarie came the second historical
period. The Corps was drummed out, but
the A ested Interests remained- All through
this second period we find them at every
turn opposing first the Governor’s pro-
gressive policy and then every successive
movement made in the direction of popular
development and advance. Trial by jury, the
freedom of the Press, the right of public
opinion, enquiry into the iniquities of the
convict system, and every other essay at
progress was consistently opposed b,y the
\ ested Interest class. At the same time
there began to appear the first indications of
public intelligence— two popular newspapers,
the Patriotic Association, and capable and
recognised leaders of the people. In this
manner the way was prepared for the stage
that was to follow.
* * *
In the third stage of the colony’s history
we will see the popular cause taken up by
the best Governor who ever held office
in New South Wales. As Macquarie suc-
ceeded the misrule of the Corps, so Bourke
succeeded Darling. He. taught the people to
rely on their own power, by allowing them,
to feel their influence under favouring con-
ditions. He prepared the way in the most
direct manner for the abolition of transpor-
cation, and he effected sweeping reforms in
the convict system, pruning it of some of its
brutalities, and stripping it of some of its
most repulsive accessories of horror. From
his time onward the process of advance to the
granting of partial and then complete Respon-
sible Government is marked and regular, until
the first elected Parliament was called to-
gether in 1856. This will conclude the
tmrd part of our story, and will lead up to
the fourth period, which has lasted to the
present time. Every day the indications
become stronger that there is a fifth stage
still in reserve, to which this present is but
the antechamber. Perhaps, some day we
shall look back to the present stage of otir
history with the same historical interest as
that with which we now regard the first, the
second, or the third.
Correspondence,
" Countryman ” (Sydney): Thanks for cutting,
he only humour in those papers lies in the ad
vertisements “Bones” (Silverton-road) : obliged
for your observations “5.5.0.:” To suspend
Habeas Corpus Act was simply to abrogate the only 1
which prevents a man from making a false accusat
against you, putting you into goal, and letting you st
there. .“ E. Markwell: ” Queen Victoria's life history
emphatically not in all respects “an example worthy
mutation by all true women.” However, as your bel
to the contrary seems an article of religious faith it is
worth while discussing the matter “Fag:” Than
....“Ah Suey:” If the Governor agrees to” this Bill
will become law. He may, however, as this measu
involves a great question of Imperial policy, refer it
the Downmg-street authorities, Everything will dene
on the instructions cabled to him from England..
“A. Maxwell”: It is absurd to be seriously annoy
when a barrister slangs you in a speech addressed to
jury. He isn t game to “ say it outside.” « E Wa
ton ’ : Never accept a title. Parkes, only the other da
became a mandarin or something of China. Look at hi
now If the Chinese Emperor caught him he would p
* he Un S- chi --..“H.V.A.”: Many
extract, which we had already noticed. Your bid
ment in this matter confirms our own “ E.M.” •? ;
Mary’s Cathedral will, we believe, cost £300,000 in all’ ’
Gaspard : The « Kiama Ghost ” was the spectre raise
by Parkes, who, in a speech at Kiama, which he then r
presented in the N.S.W. Assembly, said that there wa
a b email plot against the Government of N.S. Wales
Currabubula”: How innocent are the clergy not't
now that, as .John Morley puts it, all politics are a con
proimse." Expediency is the breath of life to the ]it
eian... S.S.C. : Thompson and Moore’s story must b
a flam. Dynamite doesn’t necessarily explode when yo
put t into the fire... “ AirnOj Valifere de Jones ” : Thanks
; r ", x B ' B '” : Not yet Published....“ J.' B.
(Rochester, yc.); Thanks for dipping, which was, hou
ei er, a little too hot for table use.... “w G M‘K »
.nurkah): The matter sent will be’ considered
/eph : The “Psalm of Political Purity” is at one
,0th <( g °° d p” d bad - H wiU re< l uire considerable revision
.... Not Pure but Simple”: The Mongreal, as voi
in a ma', a trUly qualified advocat
m a man who spells Jingo with a “ g.”... j ame
Marsh (Bedourie): You shall learn more about you
Western* Oi TT h SOrted ° Ut; alvvays S lad hear fron
Western Queenslami.... “ W.S.”: We don’t know whethe
Charles Bradlaugh ever did or did not in the course o
his life vote for Insh coercion. We do know that he
about the last person on the face of the earth likely to
do so Tom Jones”: Wilkie Collins is just as
ai _ a o\e Hugh Conway as a novelist as Mark
IZV? a . b °v M r Adeler as a humourist; “ The Woman
heroes 6 ; + T’” and “Moonstone” are three of
the finest sensational novels in the English language, and
fr wrUt°en Way ‘Tv D ° m ° re oonstmcted such plots
evolved f n &8h thaD Max Adeler could have
nocents Ah" 1 h , IS , ' nner consciousness such books as "In-
nocents Abroad, Tramp Abroad,” or “Huckleberry
liild he d d Am0 < r, St ' K ' lda): deceived. Your joke is
bald-headed “P.P.W.”: Parkes’ reference to Mr.
;° 0d was extremel y cowardly. It was likewise quite
uncailed-for if we are to accept the plea so often urged
noth' 6 a h° Henry that a man ’s private doings have
nothmg whatever to do with his official character....
' m * Bh ' Thanks. Too personal “ R.N.W ”
£ p U p r T n’““,? liX ” (Brisba " e )> “Ananias” (One
' olnt )> J.A.8.” (Dunedin, N.Z.), “ Thos. B ”
(Dunedin, N.Z.): Received....“ Arthur Tyson” (Bell
\ < ar”& w £ a
creature, and warned of her impending fate
for' yom Ther is ' f 6 ,”’ ): T Will
fninnioi 18 , a httle book on Imperial and
series Bv the wav "ih 1 " Imperial Parliamentary
series. «y the way, the series is written bv Radical and
o^pS 1 .t te r t w i ; a hl We,1 r aS by -‘ he best 111 en a mmigs fth ei r
“An Old Td^!i btan £ ln ? lts compromising title....
° ld Identl ty” (Cairns, N.Q ) ; Hon W B
1 1 “ y Cam S Sy ?r ne l’ and - *’ e believe, in 1831.'
® arro,w • Undoubtedly.. “ J B Whit
“GeoSe 6 Dve’” W ° bli^ed for inforn®tion ..
LeSe g hafa plat& abn) -; 1 ; 0f °° urse the Protection
taxation iier h?.fd " l wrl . te t( ? secretary. 2. The actual
countn E Bffhea'? 8 ff hea '? m Victoria, because that
derived meet ex P e » d iture with
land to seff even h and 'l al s 8 ’ and Victoria hasn’t the
of N sw’snvein b * fc "; anted to ! hut what the people
colleotivp’lv - n a ? tua J individual taxation they lose
collective!-, m being deprived of their landed heritage.
Sydney Press carefully suppressed all
fht nt H n ° f th ul“^ning”that PibbsgaveParke*
the other night, when the latter taunted him with
having gone to gaol as a debtor.
The final returns of the Queensland elee-
n^fr< gl -mA h r e seat s “ore to the National party,
ft h haS - 10 lo .nger any reason for with-
holding the resignation of the “ Imperial '
, Ilwraith’s- paralysing success as the
champion of Australian Democracy ought to be of:
service in unfettering the mentally-gyved politics
of Victoria and South Australia, which, strangely
enough though farther from England than
Queensland, clutch in frantic fashion at the skirts
of the Imperial Joss, and Tasmania, still farther
off, is even worse m its spirit of grovel..
« Aft Society of N.S. Wales gave a
-- ke ?u ght ., in its new gallery in Pitt-street,
Sydney, the other evening, which was attended
by between 200 and 300 visitors. The programme
was hilariously gone through with ; it was
partly pictorial and partly musical. Mr. Daplvn
f I e j bal . ® ketch ,°f some artistic ad veil-
imfl Mot mi! T lth co “ lc char °oal sketclies by
Phil May. The funny element then found able
exponents. in Phil May, Prank Mahony, and
fii jpkms; and the sentimental landscape
allowed itself to get evolved per mediuir.uy F. B.
Schell and A. H. Fullwood. The m&g a eomdnot
disseminate until the small hours, /lhjro-, '-con-
cluding. moments were rendered iJlhcllfon-**. a
capital serio-comic recitation from JV- r > Titheradg^


FRECKLES
Frecklebane is the only
Post free from the inventor
Street, Newtown, N.S.W.,
P. 0.0. Sold by Washirigto
Beware of worthless imitations
oan be r ~y ot-hly eradicated by
ttaeuae mr *„ -jCuLLis’ Frbcrlbbanb.
reliabjJifc? pb „-fectly harmless,
ntor. ,S'fBNTS’, 141 King
yaseg yy stamps or
all chemists.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.—“ Dorothy ” p. 15.
Her Majesty’s Theatre. —“ Clancarty ”
Royal Standard Theatre.— Burlesque Company. „ „
Alhambra Music Hall.— Minstrelsy
Criterion Theatre.—“ The Pickpocket”
Gaiety Theatre.—" The Jungfrau Kapelle ” „
Haymarket.— Wirth’s Circus „
New Opera House.— Harry Rickards ~
Many years ago, in the dark days when
monarchs raised a dust and potentates of all kinds
were whistling to each other for assistance, and
the British seaman was still a fighting animal,
ready at all times to go out and kill somebody,
“ Black-Eyed Susan ” first made its appearance
on the stage, and a guileless race took it on trust.
In that bye-gone era the English tar was never
happy unless he was suppressing six pirates with
one hand and rending three tons of raging lion
with the other ; and his favourite amusement was
to wrench boa-constrictors asunder at tuppence
each, and then give the money to a blind beggar
who had eaten nothing for three days. He was
simple-minded and bashful, too, and rescued three
beautiful women from destruction every day, and
he spent much time in shivering his timbers. His
wife never ran away and left him, because to do
so, according to the rules of fiction, she would
have required to leave a note on the
dressing-table, which explained everything ; and,
as he couldn’t read, this scheme would have failed
in its infancy. Moreover, he never owned a
dressing-table, and his wife performed her ablu-
tions at the pump, attired in a simple white frock
and a pair of red stockings, and an envious cripple
with money looked over the fence at her while
she dried her bright young countenance with a
coarse towel and swore that
she should be his’n and that
her husband should be eaten
by a shark. The manage-
ment of Sydney Royal Stan-
dard have now put this
aggregation of honourable
maniacs into tights, and on
the whole they gain by the
change. The British seaman
of the burlesque goes to sea
in blue satin, and braves the
storm in a pair of pink legs
to the .sound of slow music,
and swearsgentle, culchawed
oaths in a plush-lined fore-
castle; while a captain in
pyjamas, with a frill round
each leg, glares on the
quarter-deck. The noble-
minded tar thus finds him-
self, forj the first time,
amid congenial surround-
ings, and damns his eyes
upon a scented sea trimmed
with velvet. The Standard
company has been streng-
thened a lot by the addition
of Edwin Lester ; and we
are glad to note that one or
two elderly girls who used
to figure in the back row of
the chorus seem to have
retired into the murky caves
of remembrance, where we
trust they are now carrying
bricks. Amy Horton, as
William, is a charming,
kittenish sailor very unlike
the mournful and poetic
animal with the large feet
who generally fills the part;
and Miss Rosa Towers,
another new arrival, has
developed a sweet voice, and
enacts the humble Susan in
a satin dress, regardless of
expense. Two sailors and a
midshipmite eat gilded salt-
horse under the command of
six admirals, and some fine
scenery with someshaky ditto
thrown in complete the show.
“ The Pickpocket,” a
tolerably well-known and
moderately-deserving come-
dy, which has been played
before in Sydney, is under-
going a revival this week at
Sydney Criterion. It is
cleverly propped up by Mr.
Dion Boucicault, junior, in
the capacity of the most
remarkable waiter who ever
dropped a plate of boiling
soup over the legs of the
crowned heads of Europe —
a waiter who owns a cough
which begins by a cry of
horror in the seclusion of
his chest and gradually
rises upwards till it bursts
out in shrieks and barks and
fragments. Mr. Titheradge has a part winch is miles
too small and commonplace for his abilities, and
Mrs. R. Brough’s pretty face and stately figure are
wasted to some extent in an imbecile course of'
unenthusiastic hugging. Cecil Ward gets a good
show in the second act, and cleans out all the
crockery for miles round in the third ; George
Lash Gordon makes a rather presentable doctor,
and Mis 3 E. Romer revels in the character
of a firmly-built aunt who goes out to die
when the hugging business come 3 on. W hen the
author of the “ Pickpocket ” gets hold of a good
joke he repeats it not less than 1.0 times, and JMr.
Harwood, who suffers most from this process,
makes little way with the audience until he slides
downstairs in the last act, and then he makes
rather less. One or two other sojourners supply
the balance of the long-felt want. The great
lesson taught by this comedy is that three police-
men ought to think twice before they do anything
more stupid than usual, and this teaching is
backed up by the orchestra until it becomes well-
nigh irresistible.
S ** # #
The “ Musical Comedy Company,” at
Sydney Academy, being strengthened somewhat
by the presence of Edward Lawler and Johnny
Cowan, have settled down into minstrelsy, and
present a “first part” consisting chiefly of songs
to which orphans and blind asylums can listen
without a blush. The rest of the evening is filled
up by the doings of a rather badly upholstered
and illustrated caste in the “Picnic Party,” a new
antiquity made up of old songs, old gags, ol'i-ram-
shackle jokes, outcast puns, and an attempted
plot which tends to obscure the huma,h gift of cal-
culation, and which ought to be chained up lest it
should kill somebody. An inspiration descends
on a party of barnstormers, who go . out
and roost in a muggy spot till they get tired,
and then take their feeble, abject, fifth-rate way
homewards, and in the intervals between these
deeds they sing hymns, and go through involun-
tary calisthenics, and indulge in harmless dialogue
which seems to be copied from the bill-of-fare of
an inferior restaurant. Leaving out a few case-
hardened actors of various degrees of alleviated
note the fun consists chiefly in sundry
gentlemen striking Illustrated Police News
attitudes, and asking each other to oblige
with a ballad, and the triple curse and
inflated anathema of the show is that they always
do oblige. Henry Power is entrusted with the
one original joke of the picnic ; he states that lie
once travelled with an educated pig, but he doesn’t
state where the pig has gone to. We suspect the
worst and demand a police enquiry into the
animal’s fate.
#* * #
The band of musicians from the rising
grounds Qf Switzerland, who have taken posses-
sion of Sydney Gaiety this week, have already
struck a patch on Australia’s arid strand. They
are fourteen strong, five being ladies; and their
voices have been cultivated to an extraordinary
degree of perfection on the slopes of their native
land. Switzerland has been known ever since his :
tory began as an uneven country, the upper parts
of which are conducive to patriotism, while in the
hollow regions of the Republic eminent citizens
have staggered the Austrian tyrant by shooting
fruit off their sons’ heads at a considerable
distance away. The sweet singers at the
Gaiety look as if tsiiey were descended from these
ancient heroes, and their melodies promise
THE JUNGFRAU KAPELLE.
(SYDNEY GAIETY.)
to take Sydney by storm. They dis-
course upon pretty nearly every instrument
under the sun, which has an unpronounce-
able name, including the xiloplion, guitar,
mandolin, harp, ocarma, glockenspiel, zither,
and a number more that nobody ever heard of
before ; and their music raises a whoop of ecstacy
every time. Also they jodel with facility, and
play the national airs of Europe better than
they were played by some of the people
who invented them. The programme is in the
main a collection of striking novelties, and
it appeals strongly to the better feelings of Mem-
bers of Parliament and other lost souls. Few
better entertainments than the Jungfrau Kapelle
have appeared in Sydney, and if Messrs. Hughes
and Jenlcin’s speculation should prove a failure in
the city of the Beautiful Harbour then it is time
to turn asse3 loose to graze on the tomb of Mozart
and use Beethoven’s dust as a medium for polish-
ing forks at 7s. fid. a dozen.
#* # *
Essie Jenyns returns to Sydney Criterion
on Saturday to play another farewell season of
four weeks, and a city which has been feeding on
desolation and east-wind in her absence is inflated
with an exceeding great joy. She opens with the
“ Merchant of Venice,” and “ Twelfth Night.”
“MuehAuO About Nothing, ” ‘-Romeo,” “Pygma-
lion and Galatea,” &c., will follow.
## # #
The ever-generous Johnny Solomon, sup-
ported by Messrs. Brough and Boucicault, has
organised a matinee at Sydney Criterion to take
place next Saturday, the proceeds to go to the
widows and orphans whose male relatives were
killed at Bombo (N.S.W.) the other day.
Lord Carington will patronise, and the companies
attached to the Royal, Criterion, Gaiety, and Her
Majesty’s will take a hand, backed up by Misses
Colbourne-Baber. Lucia Harwood, Louise Daven-
port, Acton Blair, Elsa Sherwin, and Messrs.
Rickards, Kowalski, Rainford, and others whose
names can’t be conveniently crowded into this
page.
## # #
Wirth’s Circus and New York Equescurri-
culum is playing to audiences even larger than its
name, at Haymarket Square, Sydney. Harry
Rickards’ clever combination is crowding Sydney
Opera House to the doors, and that long-blighted
establishment is looking up. “ Dorothy ” and the
Royal Opera season close together next week. The
Ooogee Aquarium still does a good business with a
magnificent swimming bath 100 feet in length,
though the season for this kind of exercise is nearly
over, and people will not wash themselves much the
next Spring. The Skating rink,however, is indepen-
dent of weather, and refreshments and music are
in demand at all times. The Ashfield Recreation
Ground also prospers, sports of various de-
scriptions being piled up in profusion.
Skinner’s Elite Skating Rink, in Elizabeth
and Bedford-streets, Sydney, has also broken
loose, and proclaims itself the largest amuse-
ment-palace in the world. As it seats 5000
spectators it probably comes quite as near to this
description as could be expected. Accommoda-
tion is provided for 2000 skaters, and an incan-
descent light above and a hardwood floor beneath
add considerably to the joys of the rinko-
maniac world. Mr. R. G. Agin ton, cham-
pion skater of the world, has also been “ en-
gaged at enormous expense,” and the Naval
Artillery Brass Band is in attendance.
“ Clancarty ” stills holds the boards at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, but Handsome George’s love-
making and Miss Kate Bishop’s appeals for mercy
will have to shortly give way to an adaptation by
Mr. Parker Goethe, called the “Vendetta,”
founded upon a weird sensational novel of the
wild and wasted West. Previous to which event,
however, “Two Orphans” will make their ap-
pearance and introduce, for the first time at this
theatre since her return from Europe and
America, an old favourite in the person of Miss
Maggie Knight, likewise Miss Lucia Harwood,
also Mr. Arthur Lawrence, and not forgetting
Mr. H. R. Jewett, who, we may whisper softly,
is so lucky as to be the husband of the aforesaid
Maggie Knight.
## # #
Simultaneously with the advent of a French
Comedy Company to Melbourne the buny ip awoke
from his long sleep among the reedy -marshes and
raised a melancholy midnight howl. From this
natural historical circumstance one may infer that
the bunyip is an intelligent animal, also the friend
of man. The French company is a moderate
crowd of unfiery Gauls performing wishy-washy
trifles within a miserable circumference of stage.
The Freemasons’ Hall, where they are sufficiently
well bestowed, is a barnlike chamber abounding
in echoes and fitted up with two escape doors,
which persistently bang just when somebody is
saying something that an insignificant section of
theaudience could translate into Eng’ish if they had
a fair chance. To the large majority, however, these
sudden reports come as breaks in the monotony,
vigorous in expression and easy of comprehen-
sion. Beyond the door-bangs there is little about
this uncalled-for show to hit the popular taste.
The company appear to have no resources except
talking French, in which tongue they hold fortli
to attenuated assemblages, numbering'as few as
GO souls on an off-night. But for educational pur-
poses the entertainment is hereby recommended
to the notice of schools and superior families.
Toorak maidens must be armed for any Frencli
cr .nt who come along. When the count says,
“"Meese Blanche, je t’adore! ” it won’t do for
Blanche to say, “Shan’t—shut it yourself. She
must be prepared to reply, “ Monsieur le Comte,
voire sentiment tres mutuel,” with the true
Parisian accent studied at the French plays,
dontcherknow.
* # *
After making due allowance for poet’s license the
above embodies something after the nature of a
fact. Charles Warner’s Hamlet, on view at Mel-
bourne Princess’s for one week only, goes a long
way towards justifying the violence of his boom-
ing by the Triumvirate. Barring a mashy pro-
pensity for making too many words terminate in
ah (he’s in Australiah, even now), and a trick of
rushing off the stage as though he saw his last
train about to depart without him —also barring a
disposition to gasp—Mr. Warner is as fine a
Hamlet as he looks. His soliloquies and speeches
generally would penetrate the dull understanding
of a bull-frog. With a pathetic wave of his ner-
vous hands he demonstrates that the melancholy
Prince is all right until he tries to think too hard,
a mental peculiarity pertaining to royal birth. In
a few other respects Mr. Warner is altogether
what’s-its-name and supremely thingummy. Miss
Isabel Morris stands out from a fairly competent
remainder, and the play scene is prettily set up in
the latest al fresco style.
“Taken from Life,”
another of Bland Holt’s
moving specialities, will keep
Melbourne Royal full of joy
and dread till Friday, after
which Miss Carrie Swain
chases poetic drama round
a tank filled with real water.
Carrie’s rendering of the
side-stroke is said to be c f
a most emotional character.
“ The Octoroon,” with Ada
Ward still at the head of a
plucky company, is fetching-
a good few people to the
Alexandra, and “Hans tie
Boatman ” continues to
navigate his trim-bu'dt
wherry at the Bijou. Kc-
bottaro, Armes Beaumont,
and a crowd of minor at.
tractions make a substantial
shillings-worth at the .Juve-
nile Exhibition, and the two
nigger-halls are thriving in a
deparate endeavour to knock
eacli other out of time. Both
shows smile a contemptuous
grin at those rag-shop-nig-
gers across the road.
We’ve seen some lean and podgy men, men red
and blonde, and men dark,
Apjrear in tights, on divers nights, to play the
Prince of Denmark—
Roar, shriek, or squeak the lines unique, yet leave
their meaning hazy ;
No gloomy Dane once made it plain if he was sane
or crazy,
Ere came to take the classic cake one Hamlet, we
as “ boss ” tick.
Read down the caps, his name, perhaps, is writ in
this acrostic.
The Pulph and the Beach.
Considering the expe-
riences we have had in
these colonies it is rather
refreshing to find, in onein-
sance, perfect unanimity
between the pulpit and i he
btneh. It must be within
the recollections of our
readers that not so veiy long
since a popular divine in
vited, or if he did not invite
he permitted, an eminent
judge to deliver an address
from his pulpit to sn
audience assembled in his
church. Unhappily, the
deliverances of the judge,
though learned and instruc-
tive, turned out to be not all
that the orthodox could
accept, that is to say, the
orthodox amongst, the defi-
cit patty of the denomina-
ti -n to which the minister
referred to belonged. The
subject afforded matter for
long discussions, which, un-
happily, were not conducted
on the lines of broad Chris-
tian charity which we
naturally expect from those
who are supposed to preach
the glorious doctrine of
“ peace on earth and
goodwill towards men,”
the result was that a be
loved pastor was torn
away from his sorrow
ing flock. These dissen-
sions, on what appear to
ordinary folks to be petty and trivial, not to say
hair-splitting doctrinal points, strike simple-
minded people as being sad. It cannot be gainsaid
that anything of the kind does more to destroy
the value of true religious teaching than anything
else. It is not always however, that the pulpit
and the bench disagree, and it is refreshing to turn
to examples showing the contrary, ‘ 1 One touch of
nature makes the wh"le world kin, ” and suffering
leads to a community of interest*. We cannot do
better, in order to illustrate this, than to quote
the incidents given below, from which it will be
seen that if “misfortune makes us acquainted with
strange bed-fellows,” diseases, too, through sym-
pathy bring what, perhaps, would otherwise be
incongruities together. One related to a minister
—and judging by bis r6ma v lvs, a \ cry charitable
minister too the other to a police magistrate, as
follows -.— Henry Plume, M.A., Archdeacon of
North Queensland, says -.—During my long bush
tours I have come across many wonderful cures
effected by Warner’s safe cure. For Fever, so
prevalent in the bush, it seems to be a certain cure.
I have never had occasion to try it myself, but from
what I have seen on my last trip, I shall ne\ ei
start on a journey without my pack being furnished
with Warner’s safe cure. Eobert Johnstone,
Police Magistrate for Tiaro and Howard, Mary-
borough, Q., writes:—For the past 20 years I have
been subjected to complicated liver complaints. I
suffered from general langour of body, weariness,
loss of appetite, and other painful symptoms,
charac 1 'eristic of a torpid state of the liver. I
despaired of ever getting well again. . Seven
months ago, when very ill indeed, I, at the instance
of Mr. Adams, M. L. A, procured Warner’s safe
cure. The first bottle made me sick, hut I per-
severed with it, and with the third bottle my cor, -
di*ion greatly improved. Last April I had al-
together consumed a case of 12 bottles of' the Safe
Cure, and ever since I have been in the of
health, in fact, I am enjoying much better health
than I did during the past 26 years of my sojourn
in Queensland.


{SUFFERERS FROM RHEUMATISM.
The CELEBRATED
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
A Patent and Pleasant Remedy.
This popular stimulant has been proved to afford
Great Keitel’ in RHEUMATISM and GOUT.
It SOOTHES the NERVES by its gently
d'ff’wivo properties, ALLAYS IRRITATION by
its quieting effects, and, TONING the SYSTEM,
STRENGTHENS the ORGANS so as to perfect
functional action.
£<W There is nothing known better calculatei to
invigorate the constitution than
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS I
Pepper
Salt
Dear Bulletin,— l waz born a white man
u ider difikulties ah’ hav alwaize endevord to ack
u : >p to the karaker thus forsed upon me by dint of
o ■ unless soopervishun an’ frekently wash in’ my
foot an’ utherwize sakrifisin to Moloch wich I be-
-1 v„ve was a heethen god an’ sins deceased, al flesh
b >ing gras that thy daze may be long in the land
ai’ the same, being pitched within an’ without
w ;th pitch. My rezon fer komin to this koncko-
aion wasarived at on a hors in the vicinity of
Br-okin Hil a few weaks ago an’ I woud have ritn
to you sooner to lett you no about it only that
stamps.ia skers an’ you have to hustle to gett one,
an’ if you say anythin’ to the dood in charge ib
is ten to 1 that he asks you if you will
luve it likked or dry an’ will he send
it for you in a bloomin dray, which I leggard
as cheek, an I stuk fast in the windo tryin’ to gett
through at him which made him laff. Tam now
konnsidderin’ the advizabbillite of underminin’
the bilding an’ cornin’ up through the floor which
will enabbel me to taik him in the rere when he is
s riilin’ at sumbodie else which hapend also to a
man j. n the skripchoor who was struck by a pillar
salt for three daze and 3 nights, the only
dipherens bein’ that he was a profit an’ this
dood wouldn't be any loss. It waz on the
okashun menshuned in the second parrygraf that
L mett the man hoom I forget to allude to in the
first, parygraf, and he tolled me that he had left
Wilkania on akount of it bein’ no longer a fitte
place for a white man to hang out in owin’ to the
Chows an’ then he melted into teers and so did
his horse. When he rekuvered a little he said
the rabits waz eeting the wire fenceing the
Goverrnment was proposing to send up, and when
I asked him how they cood be eeting it when it
was only proposed as yett, he explaned that
they were eeting the proposal, and that he had
ressolved to aply to be made an aklima-
tised Chineeman as lie hadent enof time to
B a white mail unless he sat upp all
nite and liighered anuther man to help
km to do it which sentiment in my opeemon
wont last miles keeped in a dri spott. As won
nioar proopli of this painful state of things T may
mension that the bos of a nabberin stasion has
boroad my last 2 bagz of chaf and when I askd for
them bale he sed he wood eat his hed first, which I
]),)]((| to )>e impossibel az 1 riont see bow he cood
get upp to it and upp to the time of ntmg which
Vs dun under difikultes ansm from a fii in the
imrk his hed is' ill rite. I trust thes fakts wil sho
v<V> that the Chineaz is a curse an that this
kuntry is langwishing under their mfiooens wich
must <T oe in order to manetane the soopremacy of
, mr bduved Gueen ajed W) an 4 feat indiammyter.
—Yoors trooly, Titus Salt.
“An officer in tlie Austrian anny, says a
Victorian evening paper, “ has left his fortune to
a nephew on condition that he shall never read a
newspaper.” Perhaps the Austnan Consul m
Melbourne will kindly cable this
Break, then, these fetters, Nephew, which would
bind
In bonds of ignorance your struggling mind—
Better be poor, enjoying freedom still,
Than wealthy slave of tyrant uncle’s will;
Hard toil is honest and the world is wide—
No doubt you’d earn some money if you tried ;
Bass on that fortune to the next of kin,
And claim your right to read—The Bulletin.
The Governor of German New Guinea —
an agreeable old military slaughterman who
doesn’t mean any harm—has issued a proclama-
tion in which he states that any unprincipled Ger-
man, “on payment of a small fee,” may sell guns,
ammunition, dynamite, rum, and miscellaneous
devastation to the natives of British New Guinea,
and any other colonies not attached to the
Kaiser’s dominions, but if the same man is caught
disposing of these baleful influences to his own
Imperial niggers he will be officially caused to sit
up. The spirit of modern civilisation shines out
in this little regulation. Her Gracious Majesty’s
uncivilised subject may carouse and whoop him-
self into a premature cemetery, and get lifted
right off the surface of the land through fooling
with things that are calculated to go off just when
the little heathen doesn’t expect anything of the
sort; and meanwhile the Teutonic idolator is. to be
nursed up and kept sober and have his feet put in hot
water by a paternal Government, so that when the
time comes he may foreclose on the lands of Vic-
toria’s dead-and-gone foreigner, and thus lead to
international complications. In the presence of
this underhand scheme it is time for Australia to
assert herself. If Lord Carington is equal to the
occasion, which he seldom is until two or three
years afterwards, he will at once issue a counter-
proclamation granting permission to N.S.W.
traders to supply beer, nitro-glycerine, boome-
rangs, and hash to the Prussian royal family, and
at the same time declaring it penal to transmit
these overthrowing exports to the British Crown,
and he will further prohibit any German
whatever from playing any curly brass instru-
ment in any part of the territory which
basks in his smile under pain of having his head
washed. The rising tide of German arrogance
must be suppressed. Under the privileges of our
glorious Constitution only the freeborn British
citizen has a right to
fill her Majesty’s
niggers drunk, and
then persuade them
to sell 4000 acres of
land in exchange for
a cast-iron rifle and a
lead axe, and when an
unlawful foreigner
intrudes on this walk
of industry it is time
for the Empire to
rise up in the re-
sources of its bound-
less ferocity and ask
him to stop.
We observe with
pleasure that the in-
fatuated Chinese race
is beginning to put
on heathen frills,
which, we trust,
will ultimately lead
to the overthrow of
a nation whose sins
are too numer-
ousto shake a stick
at. Pride —we quote
the pensive remark of
an old king who
ought to know as he
had 700 wives, and
800 ladies who need
not be more parti-
cularly described in
this paper—goeth be-
fore destruction, as
instanced by the De-
cline and F all of the
Roman Empi r e,
which can be bought
cheap bound in calf.
These reflections are
based on the con-
duct of Ah Him, of
Melbourne, a repre-
sentative Chow who
must be suppressed
by means of the
brickbat of public
execration, if the su-
premacy of the white
race is to be main-
tained in these parts.
A few weeks ago Ah
Him was looking for
a situation and his
sloping eye fell on an
advertisement for a
Chinaman, to be
generally useful in
the house, where-
upon he oiled his
pigtail and applied.
He could wash and
ilun, he explained
deferentially, and
cookee welly good,
and he was prepared
to dustee and sclub
floors and perform
other domestic duties.
He wasn’t particular
in the matter of
wages, and he undertook to worship Joss softly
out by the ash-heap where bis devotions would not
disturb the family, and when the lady explained
that she had been compelled to discharge seven
Irish servants in succession he murmured sympa-
thetically, “ Ki-la !” and added, “ Ilish no dam
good, Ah Him heap good.” But when it was
mentioned that he would have to wear the clothes
of the departed Tipperary maiden, including
her stays and bustle and bonnet, and would
be expected to answer when anybody hollered
“Bridget,” he rose and said sternly, “Blidget
makee me heap sick.” Then he accentu-
ated his revolt by wrapping his pigtail round
his head as a mark of disrespect and derision.
“Me no Ilish gil,” he stated, with a cold, arro-
gant look in his eye and smothered fury in his
voice; “me Ah Him; me cookee welly much
good—washee—ilun—clean up welly nice—but me
no dam Ilish. No petticoats, no bustle, not Blid-
get.” And with that he drove a greasy hat, that
looked as if it had been embezzled from a dead
body, hard down on his pigtail, and went forth,
dragging the door behind him with a crash. We
relate these facts calmly and dispassionately, and
we ask our friend Terence, who goes about wid a
bit uv a shtick, if he will endure this.
* * *
Riverton (N.Z.), a small one-goat town-
ship near the south coast, is troubled with a
nuisance on the subject of which we raise our-
selves with a loud voice and warn the great Aus-
tralian public to stand back and he low. The
affair in question is a danger to travellers who are
near-sighted or one-eyed or prone to abstraction
and absence of mind, or who are astride a revo-
lutionary horse which will tack before the Novem-
ber gale, regardless of being bumped with a club
or defamed with current blasphemy and other ex-
penses. It is a swamp of black mud disguised
with a thin veneer of hard-bake, which opens with
a Weary gape to take in the belated poley-cow and
devours the widow and the fatherless and the goat,
and slowly hauls them down amid circumstances
which preclude the possibility of their graves
being kept green, or decorated with daisies or
bouquets in jam-tins, and inverted oyster shells,
and violets, and tombstone?, and scripture texts,
and other solemn tributes to departed goodness,
such as the hand of man is accustomed to build
over the resting place of those who are gone be-
fore. Men in be-r and men in waggons have
wandered aimlessly to this spot and have never
returned; gaudy circuses have loafed for a moment
on the deceitful green surface, and have then
drifted silently down to the bowels of the earth ;
Sunday-school picnics and working bullocks have
stood there one moment and the next they have
been a corpse, and have left a vacant chair and
their sad fate has cast a gloom, and they have
been lost to view for ever and ever, amen. Once
—and once only—has the hungry swamp missed
its victim. One day last month or the month
before, a young person whose name we have not
heard, but whom we will describe as Belinda
Jones in order to save pronouns, was standing in
a reverie, when suddenly she found that her feet
were bogged in the mire. She uttered a few
appropriate remarks in a shrill tone of voice
and shook the landscape and the horizon
with the heave she gave, but her ex-
tremities refused to come out. Then she
plunged wildly, and began to settle down.
For many years she had read the “Family
Herald,” and had cherished a hope that some
young man with a love of a moustache and a duke
in his family would come along and claim her for
his own, and that she would settle down with
him, but now she was settling down alone, _ and
no one distantly related to any duke was in sight.
She whooped violently as she thought of these
pleasant dreams, and swayed and hauled and
IN VINO VERITAS!
BROWN (effusively and very much off) : “SMITH, OLD MAN, I’VE
KNOWN YOU FOR THE LAST TWENTY YEARS AND
WE HAVE BEEN VERY GOOD FRIENDS, BUT I’VE
NEVER LIKED YOU.”
wept, and the .more she hauled the faster she
sank. Night was coming on, and the lower half
of Belinda Jones was lost to view. Just then a
small boy came slowly down the hill eating a
carrot, and, after looking at her for awhile, he
volunteered to alarm the town for ninepence.
She offered him £150,000, and he accepted the
terms and started at a slow walk, still eating the
carrot. She entreated him to make haste, and he
bade her keep her hair on, and disappeared over
the edge of the adjacent hill; and still Miss Jones
continued to settle down. An hour later she was
up to the neck, and just then a crowd of men and
women and children and dogs streamed down to
the spot with screw-jacks and shovels and ropes and
steam cranes and other appliances, and by dint
of stupendous exertion and. great engineering
skill Belinda Jones was wrenched from her grffiiy
bed. She was then handed over to the police to
be swilled down with a hose and put through
other indignities, and a little later an astounded
small boy, who had presented a bill for £150,000,
V'is donated a shilling and ordered to s_kip.
Leo, the lion’s, share—Peter’s pence.
The Victorian Government steamer, Lady
Loch, has been put to a useful purpose at last.
It smuggled a batch of Chinese ashore in the cold
gray mist of early morning, and is now being dis-
infected, and fresh painted, in readiness for the
next Ministerial picnic down the Bay.
TO THE NEPHEW.
Ts wealth worth winning at a price like this ?
The poor man’s penny buys him perfect bliss
An evening paper stocked with truths sublime
Pertaining to the latest Ghastly Grime
V “ Shocking Death,” of “ Criminal Assault,
The Victim’s Body hidden in a Vault.
’Neath bold cross-headings, Brown and Smith may
The faithful details of some filthy deed,
And, wading on through literary slush,
1 hive scenes sufficient to make bullocks blush
Unfolded to their gaze by practised hands ;
The social garbage of far-distant lands
1 s piled in columns to amuse poor Brown,
And Smith, and all who plank their pennies down.
I hihappy Nephew !' Rich at such a cost!
Kml but one paper and you’re fortune s lost.
Now Uncle’s dead, dear chappie, nevermore
Vou'll gaze, in fancy, on a pool of gore—
On walls Bespattered by a Maiden s brains
(}n headless porters killed by luggage-trams.
All, all your money (here we pause to sigh)
That penny dish of horrors cannot buy.
The morning history of Last Night’s Debate
Must lie no more beiide your breakfast-plate ;
The Eastern Question, or a Ball in Wheat,
Or Further Shipments of Australian Meat,
Will send no thrill, O ! Nephew, through your
The while you trifle with a buttered roll
Only at clubs, or pubs., from comrade’s lips
Can you obtain the sporting prophets ‘tips,
Hear bald descriptions of the Slugger s spar,
Or learn how Someone potted at the Czar.
Aboriginalities.
This is a true story. Old Jimmy Brown
is a cook. We say that he is a cook advisedly ;
we also do so orthodoxly, because Jemmy was a
good man, and, although he is dead, we believe
that he has met with his reward in the sweet by-
and bye, and any reward which took shape other
than that of kitchen duty wouldn’t satisfy the
yearnings of Jemmy Brown’s soul. When he was
here, on this mundane sphere, he used to cook for
road parties, and survey parties, and shearers, and
such like of the lost and corrupt. And in all he
did he evinced the action of a logical mind. For
instance, when we knew him first he was cooking
for a road party between Bathurst and the Lach-
lan. He used to bake enormous dampers—one
lasted his men for a week ; and the way he made
it do so was by dividing it into six several sec-
tions, covering from Monday until Saturday. On
Sundays he gave them fresh bread especially good,
for, as I have said, Jemmy was a good man, and
took heed of the command to keep the Sabbath
holy. So Jemmy used to chalk his damper
into equal sections, and it was a point of honour
among the men to eat up each division and no
moie on the day appointed for its consumption.
It happened, however, that one day, when it came
on to rain pretty hard, several of the
men sought shelter in the hut. Two were
in high dispute concerning the relative
merits of Napoleon and Wellington, and as they
wrangled, they cut into the huge damper which
was set in a corner. As they did so, Jemmy eyed
them with marked disfavour; for it was Thursday
and the damper was closing up. At last one of
the disputants turned to him. “Jemmy,” cried
he, “ you’re about the best chap to settle this
matter. Now which was the greater general—
Wellington or Bonaparte ? ” and as he spoke he
cut another slice from the damper. “ Well,” said
Jemmy in disgust, “I’m if I know anythink
about your Wellington or your Bonypart; but
this I do know, mate, you've cut well into
Friday.” And so he had, and was fined nobblers
all round.
* * #
It was in the back-blocks, and meat was
scarce. Each member of the party was by turns
cook, and when Jim Brown was installed several
ugly remarks were made referring to the hopes
that his catering would be an improvement upon that
of his predecessors. Jim promised his fullest atten-
tion to the duties of his now position, and the sur-
veying party started off on their day’s trip to
return for dinner at night. They were greeted
upon their re-arrival by a large and genial smile
from Jim and a savoury odour from a steaming
saucepan, which combined put the whole company
into excellent humour as they prepared to taste
the first meat they had eaten for some days, pro-
visions having run short. Each one disposed of a
morsel and remarked knowingly, “ Pi neon, heyf
“ Pigeon,” replied their comrade, with a superior
air, “ Jolly nice old feller. Shoot ’em?” and com-
pliments poured on the beaming cook from all
sides. After the tasty dish had been disposed of,,
smoking was indulged in and one of the party
casting his eyes around espied a long snake
apparently watching them. Leaping to his feet,
for he was unpleasantly near the reptile, he yelled
“ Snake !” and in an instant the whole party had
sprung upon and knocked it until nothing but a
confused mass remained. This the curious ex-
amined, and found that a cruel hoax had been per-
petrated. The supposed snake was really a skin
carefully arranged in the position it was first seen
in. Of course Jim was the culprit, but was asked
when he had caught the snake, “ and what did
you do with the body, old man ?” queried one.
“ Pigeon, hey?” he suggestively remarked, and
with a gasp the diners realised it all. But, no !
we will draw the curtain. Snake is good to eat,
but nasty to think about.
Dear Bulletin, —A party of three fel-
lows (two old sports and a recently-arrived im-
portation from “The furst gin av the say ”),
went out shooting from Wardell. The tasty black
ducks were plentiful, so the aged sports soon
knocked over a tidy bag; then they thought of
giving Mick a shot or two —Michael had been act-
ing as retriever for them and they were justified
in giving him some little encouragement. Ac-
cording to Mick’s candid statement, he had fired a
gun off “ twicet in his loife.” The party trudged
along till they came to a part of a swamp alive
with ducks and swans. They handed Mick a
double- barrelled gun, and, giving him a few bints
about sneaking on to ducks, sent him off. Mick
got within range, raised his gun, took several
deadly aims, and, at last, drawing a rattling bead
on the black quackers, he pulled both triggers, at
the same time giving the gun a semi circular
sweep. Of course he didn't get any duck. “What
the Sheol made you spoil a beautiful shot by
sweeping the gun round that way? “Oh ! shure
Oi wanted to pepper the whole blissid dock.”
Yours, Oyster Johnnie.
* * *
Soulful wail from the Nyngan (N.S.W.)
Mercury :
“Sir, —Believing you will not refuse me a short space
in your journal, I desire to complain of the treatment we
receive from the Magistracy. Tney often keep us waiting
unnecessarily, sometimes for days together, merely that
we may chop firewood for the constables or clean out the
lock-up. Surely, the Government might make a lot of
men J.s P., and polish us off quickly.—Yours, &c., One of
the Drunks.”
* * #
A country paper announces that Kaye, of
the Hatfield bushrangers, died lately in Albury
Gaol. This reminds us of some strange events in
connection with the Hatfield gang, who put the
Balranald district in shivers some nine years ago.
They consisted of four young men —Gorman,
Kaye, Jones, and Hobbs —and, having stuck up
half the district, they were captured after a smart
fight by the police and some civilians who assisted
at Kilfera station. Constable Power was badly
wounded, and for this the four were sentenced to
death, but the sentences were commuted to im-
prisonments varying from 10 to 21 years. A
short w r hile afterwards Power blew his brains out;
Grainger, a young storekeeper, who assisted in the
capture, threw himself overboard on his way to
England in the .following year : and Senior-con-
stable Beresford, who led the police in the attack,
went to Queensland, where he was killed and
eaten by the blacks. Some two years ago Jor°.°j
the youngest of the gang, died of heart-disc 1 ; 80 m
DaHinghurst. Mr. C. G. Casey, of Quer nB Hnd,
made-himself conspicuous at the figh l - between
the gang-and the police, and nar, escaped
getting half-aff-ounce of lead in his A‘ tu -
A M Afeetuat, f er Qrban policerr suff'er-
. , -ofCLisjusN ation frown h,c*eitif you don’t
ing trie cure. Pei
like, &'• M. Clbm i. * *, ..
2s. 106 n ls agitating for
. rh Soul and eston (Tasmania), and a
his civ i .voted at the-local gaoL”
new gal


«l have founfob) W. F, Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to ~y <**«» I have used. It is
Quinine x PaIiMBR.” Prepared
tt u excelient Pharmao y, Camperdown
S££«Ti£ Si
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Holler Flour, and your bread wil be as white as snow.
Personal Items.
|, r d Dudley attained his majority on last
iy.
3V Samuel Hebditch (Congregational),
lelaide, left £12,000. “Of such,” &c., &c.
nother list of the Parkes relief fund
[shed, and yet the ten thou, has not been
led!
tmes Morton, one of the notorious City
las go w Bank directors, is dead, llis me was
red for £115,000.
Melbourne enthusiast says that Parson
■les Strong is a modern David. And David
in his haste, &c., &c.
ir. Brownless, who was made a C.M.(«.
Jueen’s Birthday, is Chancellor of the fvlel-
•ne University. Like all English Catholics,
“ superfine loyal.”
'he loyal Annus is trying to knock a year
the age of our beloved Queen. According to
tnnual glutinous leader, last Thursday was the
l.’s 68th birthday.
Irs. Langtry’s brother once studied for
Bar, but soon abandoned it for stock-broking,
is as well-known in the commercial world as
sister is in the theatrical world.
Verity-five years ago “Honest John
t ” was the beaming host of the Black Bull,
n the leading hotel m Bathurst, N.b.W. All
ilicans are not necessarily sinners.
Che statement that this is Sir Henry
ffi’s last year as Governor of Victoria must be ■
error, as the usual term is six: years, and bir
nry has not yet been at Melbourne four years.
Dean Cowper has, under the State aid to
gion regulations, drawn £4OO a year from t ie
AW. Treasury for the last 30 years, while
non Allwood has drawn £2OO a year since 18s,.
Mrs. Campbell Praed—Mbs Mu'rray-
ior, of Queensland—is engaged on a new play,
e intends to devote herself almost entirely for
3 future to the engrossing work of the play-
ight.
The latest from the Salvation Army is too
□d to be lost. A subscription is bemg raised
vards a wedding gift of five thousand pound i
r Miss Booih. . Nothing paltry about the
moral!
Count de Jouffray D’Abbaus, French Con-
l at Wellington, N.Z., claims descent from King
ovis. As the Count intends visiting the Mel-
urne Exhibition, Toorak is requested not to
eak all at once.
“Watty’’Adam, M.P. (Q.) is the oldest
.litician of the new Parliament, He began life a
-odboy, but gradually developed into a whisky-
indor, and at the mature age of 60 drifted into
,e Legislative Assembly.
Dr. E. M. James, of Melbourne, who re-
intly made a large fortune out of Broken Hi 1
lares, gave a “big spree at his Collms-street
Lansion on' 19th May. On that day the lucky
octor completed his 59th year.
Tom Holt, late of the Warren, Sydney,
id John Austin, late of Barwon Park Geelong,
dctoria, have each been debited with having in-
troduced the rabbit to Australia, but.we findL by
re cargo-list of the first fleet -in 1788-that five
unnies were introduced then.
Walter Hely-Hutchinson, who was private
ecretarv to'Sir Hercules Robinson when Governor
,f N.S. Wales, will in future be known as Sir
Valter,” so say the telegrams. Sir Walter is
irother to the Earl of Donoughmore, who a few
■ears ago married Miss Stephens, one ot las-
nania’s fairest daughters.
It is alleged that Duncan Gillies when he
ieard that the N.S. W. Supreme Court had grantee -
labeas corpus and sat on Parkes view of the legal
■ights of Chinamen already within the territory,
vired thus “ Sir Henry Parkes. You have my
varmest sympathy. I know myself what it to
lit down on a barbed-wire fence.—D. Gillies.
Memo, for the much-travelled. Berry, the
British hangman, is ambitious of emulating
Matthew Arnold, Oscar Wilde, and many another
■elebrity. He wishes to lecture m America or
Australia- —of course, on the subject of bis pro ;
'ession. He modestly offers to do a six weeks
- our for £l2OO, and for this sum to exhibit memen-
joes and relics of his work.
There died at Louisville, Kentucky, on the
12th March, Mrs. Ella Keats Peay, a niece of
John Keats. She had just returned home from a
public concert when she was struck .down by
paralysis and immediately expired It is said she
was a beautiful, amiable, and accomplished
woman, and with the exception of her brother
John, at present a prosperous Missouri farmer,
was the last child of George Keats, the poet s
younger brother.
One of the “institutions” of the N.Z.
Parliament is an old Scot named Simon Eraser
who lias a claim, nearly 30 years old, against the
Government for a reward for the discovery oLgold
in Otago. Simon has petitioned the House
regularly for 20 years without any redress and
now he means to stand their nonsense no longer.
He has sailed to Wellington from Auckland,
Skins with him his Highland costume and his
“ bogpeeps, ’ on which lie is an efficient performer.
Simon threatens to perambulate the lobbies of the
Hmise and play “ Ghillie Callum ” until the white-
winged dove of justice flutters in his.direction and
places some southron gold into htfi philabeg.
A T Clark, who, it is cabled, died on
board tile Oceana on her homeward voyage, was
Commissioner of Customs in the Black Wedne
flav” Ministry of Berry; when he resigned
bis position us a Customs official to contest Wil-
liamstown constituency he was unsuccessfully op-
Governs
B'irkiv* which fiovy hangs there. .V. 1.
lj.irK y y . . i - i. oarc i jus voice, and bis
SSS&tSTneX emc'ealert M.
the republioanfsnimncp got mm partu Uy t rse
whippedby>an^©l#idejingo, oneD.C.KMooRc.
gg k 000 1 Hh
!»Stnaf£kk«eldi. «* «*»
vate residence in Australia/
POLITICAL
POINTS
Dibbs calls Parkes a “ miserable reptile. ”
Snakes!
Wm. Smith, M.P. for Gympie (Q.), is a
Sydneyite.
Efforts are being made to re-start the
Internationale.
Yincent Pyke calls Stout “The titled
Apostle of Democracy.”
Hint for Parkes : Suspend the Habeas
Corpus Act as they do in Ireland.
In 1858 a Chinese Restriction Bill was re-
jected by the Upper House of N.S.W.
In 1822, Mrs. Riley bought 100 acres of
what is now Woolloomooloo for £2290.
The politician whom the gods wish to
destroy they first make Chief Secretary for Ire-
land.
A novel use.was made of a dog at the re-
cent Queensland elections. A Freetrade candi
HE HAT NO STATION.
BUSH MISSIONARY: “MY DEAR MAN, YOU SHOULD NEVER GRUMBLE. ARE
WE NOT COMMANDED TO BE CONTENT WITH OUR STATIONS IN
LIFE?”
“THAT YARN'S GOOD ENOUGH FOR THE SQUATTERS AND THE BANKS-FOR
THE FELLOWS WHO HAVE ALL THE STATIONS AND SUGAR: BUT IT
WASN'T EVER MEANT FOR POOR COCKIES AND RABBITERS AND
ROUSE-ABOUTS. IF WE HAD STATIONS, WE WOULD NOT GRUMBLE.”
date trained a big dog to bark “ hear, hear at! *
every pause he made in his address.
Minister Sutherland is like.afrogin solid
rock. The frog is nothing ; the thing is how in
thunder it got there.
The only friend the Heathen Chinee has
got in N.Z. is the Rev. Mr. Stobo, Presbyterian
minister, Invercargill.
Once more has’a N.S. W. member of Parlia-
ment punched another member’s nose m the 1 ar-
liamentary smoking-room.
' One of the Brisbane candidates pub up on
the hoardings : “ vote for Jones— not a lawyer !
He was all there. Griffith is a lawyer.
The number of slaves in the Brazilian
Empire was, in 1886, estimated at 1,133,221.
There are just as many in the British Empire.
David Buchanan on the Parkes Ministry
“The creeping things which crawl around Sir
Henry Parkes and which are calls 1 colleagues.
The Sydney daily press is now unanimous
ai to the appointment of Nimam Melville to the
Chairmanship of Committees m N.b.W. As-
sembly. . ,
A certain reverend gentleman m charge of
a large Sydney congregation says he would rather
have twenty Chinamen in the country than one low
Irishman.
Darin" his speech on Friday night to the
electors ol St, Leonards, Premier Parkes used the
personal pronouns I and me 300 and 100
times respectively.
Paris Figaro has an article on the grie-
vances of French fishermen, and sarcastically
I anticipates the time when Engle nd will say : “Is
that water salt ? Yes ; then it belongs to me !”
The boss of Bulcock’s saved and jubilant
penny weekly is Horsley, once editor of Melbourne
Wak Cry. Horsley is an ex-parson, and wrote a
bit in the Age. before he joined the Salvationists.
It may interest the Australian foreign-
trade party to learn that, with very limited re-
s )urces, so far back a 3 the year 1891, 303 yards of
blankebiug and 407 yards of linen were manu-
factured in Sydney.
M‘llwraith said that if he.was nottobe put
into power by the workmen then he did not want to
be put into power at all. The vast bulk of his un-
paralleled majority at North Brisbane, the Liberal
urban pocket-borough, were workmen.
The Austral working man—employed or
otherwise—should exercise some discretion in his.
choice of advocates. One of the most glib
speakers at certain largely-attended public meet-
ings is a thrice-convicted “false pretences ’’ man.
Dutton, who has been defeated by Paul, an
old employe, to whom he once gave “the push,”
and who swore “ a time will come,” was the only
really straight Democrat in the miserable crew of
land-grabbers that made up Griffith’s late “work-
ing-man’s Government. ”
According to cable, the anti-Chinese atti-
tude of the Australian colonies has incensed the
Pekin authorities. It would have been more diplo-
matic and more comfortable had we used the
incense on the Mongolians at hand. However,
no Chow will be the worse for being incensed.
At a Liberal meeting recently held in
Brisbane, an elector asked candidate Jordan
whether he was aware that there were hundreds
of men unemployed all over Queensland, and if he
could suggest a remedy for this. His reply came
promptly : “ Yes ! Let the unemployed keep from
the public-house.”
Sir Julius Yogel has again quitted New
Zealand. His connection with the island colony
will be remembered through his Public Works
scheme, which did come off, and Ins South Sea
Bubble, which did not. The latter was half a
missionary enterprise and half copra trade. J- iie
natives were to be converted at a guaranteed in-
terest of 6 per cent., and all over that was to be
net profit.
Only one of the Labour Candidates,
Glassey, Dutton’s friend, has got into the Queens-
land Parliament. This is due to two causes, -the
fir it is, that the time is not yet ripe for a Labour
party there, when the Nationalist programme is
(as MTlwraith pointei out) so nearly theirs, and
the second is, that the movement has got into the
hands of a small, earnest, but quite narrow-minded
clique who are doing the thing to death.
Griffith now sees that he was bluffed by a
small clique of Brisbane extremists, who per-
suaded him that they could pull him through on
the out-and-out Democratic ticket if he would
break with Bulcoelc and Dickson and the urban
land-sh'arks and foreign-trade monopolists. Ihe
vacillator could not make up his mind till the last
moment, and now he has gone down flat between
the two stools, both of which he has knocked over
with him. .
At the Wesleyan Conference, in Mel-
bourne, a reverend brother rose to support the
prohibition of Chinese. _ After prayerful wrest-
ling with the subject this wily brother concluded
that the conference didn’t want Chows to come
and do their work for £4O a year. -this is a pos-
sible result of Chinese competition which escaped
Presbyterian calculations when the blessed shep-
herds of that flock moved a resolution up
against ” Duncan Gillies. If the Christianity m-
dustry were swamped by the Chows it would bring
down Gospel prices to next to nothing at all, and
we would soon have bogus salvation hawked from
door to door in a hand-cart.
The defeat of Buzacott, the one-third pro-
priet r and managing-director of the Brisbane
Courier, Observer, and Queenslander, at the
metropolitan suburb of Oxley was inevitable. He
is more unpopular with the working-men than any
other Queensland politician. This comes mostly
from the ridiculous, rabid anti-Irish attitude taken
up in the Courier, and for which Feilberg was
mainly accountable, and also from certain little
administrative troubles in the office.
After caustically dilating upon the vulgar
meanness of Her Gracious, dwelling upon the
soulless sordidness and coarse extravagance of the
regal crew, headed by the supreme in grief, ‘"who
cannot be induced to support her own children
during life or even bury thein decently after
death,” a writer in Melbourne Herald sums up
with the graceful assurance that “ this is no
reflection upon the Royal Family of Krigland.”
Will somebody kindly give it*a name ?
Sir Alfred Stephen has for 15 years drawn
£lB2O per annum as pension for his services as
N.S.W. Chief Justice. Mr. F. L. S. Mere-
wether has for'32 years drawn £OOO a year as ex-
Auditor-General of N.S.W.'; while two troopers
Thomas Bevan and Kdward Wilson, draw respec-
tively £0 2s. (id. and £l4 18s. 3d. since July, 1850;
and the N.S.W. Government is generous to
Mrs. Hannah Pope to the extent of Is. 3d. per
day for her former services as housekeeper at the
Colonial Secretary's office. The N.S.W, blue-
books disclose some queer figures.
Thus Meston at Cairns :
“So far as the Naval Defence scheme was concerned,
he (Mr. Meston) was aware that many Democrats were in
favour of it, hut he was not —he was an uncompromising
enemy of those proposals. lie came of a Democratic
family. He looked forward to a United Australia from
the Barrier Reef to the Indian Ocean—from Tasman’s
Island to the Timor Seas. (Loud cheers.) lie looked
forward to an Australia free from the fetters of Im-
perialism, free from the tyranny of landlords, free from
the contamination of an alien race, free from the degra-
dation of cheap abour, and, above all, free from the un-
speakable curse of a hereditary and titled aristocracy.
(Loud and prolonged cheering.) ”
Mr. Meston is familiar to our readers under the
nom de plume of “ Maroogaline.”
The Australian Natives’ Association, at a
recent meeting in Melbourne, decided that the
toast of “ The Queen ” should, on all future occa-
sions, head the list, but they considered that they
had no right to interfere with the private politi-
cal opinions of any of the members. The recent
hubbub between loyalists and Republicans within
the inner pale of the A.N.A. conclusively proves
its futility as a political organisation. The
“ benefit ” element will not admit of honest and
possibly compromising sentiment crx the part of
a “ society ” lodge. If the members who really
entertain Nationalistic aspirations desire to make
their power felt politically they must combine m
an association founded on a similar basis to that of
the Nationalist League of Queensland and omi t the
doctor-and-a pound-a-week-when-you’re-sick busi-
ness altogether.
Sir Henry Parlies, according to a section
of the Sydney press, does not communicate with
the acting Agent-General of N.S. Wales whenever
anything affecting the relations between the dear
old mother country and the colony in question
comes to the fore. He then ignores Sir Saul
Samuel or Sir Saul’s representative, Sir Daniel
Cooper, and puts himself in communication with
Mr. J. Henniker-Heaton, the Tory member for
Canterbury in the English Commons, and that
gentleman writes to the Times and explains
everything to everybody’s satisfaction. The other
day Heaton was cabled anent the Chinese diffi-
culty, and the indefatigable advertiser immediately
wrote to the Times and assisted Parkes in ad-
ministering about the severest snub possible to Sir
Daniel Cooper, the present acting-Agent-General
for N.S. Wales.
I Bronson Allcott defined “actuality” as
the thingness of the here.” A Kentucky
urnalist, reading this, satirised it with “ the
ireness of the thing.”
Classical learning is at a low ebb in the
Z. Pres 3. The other day a Marlborough editor
rote of the “meum and tuumof one’s existence.”
he Te Aroha editor speaks of the “chief desider-
-sums.”
Overheard at Redfern. “To my mind,
ir Henry Parkes seems like a great Newfound-
md dog taking his majestic way in sublime un-
onsciousness of the crowd of yapping curs at his
eels.” “Exactly. I understand : you mean to
ay he is the biggest cur in the crowd.” And then
he train moved on.
The Dawn is the name of a new journal
lesigned especially for Australian Women. It is
v.-ll printed, neat in appearance and deals with
ilmost every question likely to interest a woman
roxn quilting a petticoat to the Div orce Extension
Bill, The Dawn is edited by Dora Falconer-
md published by Louisa Lawson, a near relative,
by the way, of Henry Lawson, the clever young
Australian poet.
The Spanish Sovereign always washes the
feet of twelve poor persons on Good Friday, at
the Palace, but this year, the tiny King being only
a few years old, his lady mother undertook the
job. It would not have been proper, according
to Spanish etiquette, for a Queen to wash men’s
feet (Mary Magdalene notwithstanding) so a
dozen ancient women were marshalled up for the
occasion. As to the ceremony, that is all pretence;
the old parties are put in soak a week beforehand
to insure their perfect cleanliness when Holy Week
comes round ; and the Queen kneels on a velvet
cushion, and dips the tip of a priceless damask
napkin in a golden basin of scented water, and
makes believe to wash the twenty-four poor old
feet held out to her Royal hands, one after
another. How symbolic of modern Christianity,
and its contrast to the sublime devotion of its
founder!
A miner, writing to the Sydney Radical,
says the jury selected to investigate a blasting
accident of a very complex nature consisted of
“ two tailors, one fruit-merchant, three store-
keepers, one shoemaker, two publicans, one hard-
up person (without any occupation), and two
miners ” And, as an example of how the enquiry
was carried on, instances the following “ Mine-
manager giving his evidence. Coroner: Is
there not a law in force to prohibit miners from
“ unramming ” a missed shot ? and if so, who is
responsible for its enforcement?’ ‘There is no
law of this nature. No one is responsible but the
miner himself.’ Coroner : ‘ln the event of a
shot missing fire, is there not a certain time
allowed to expire before it can be approached.
‘ Not as I have ever hee’rd on., A Juror : What
is a missed shot The writer adds : And all
the thm it was the dreadful death of a poor toiler
that was being discussed.”


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, JUNE 2, 1888.
A


O. 2.


CATARRH
is an inflammation of the mucous
membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless cured will destroy every faculty and function
of its victim. Oatarrhbane is an infallible cure. Sold
by Washington Soul ana all chemists. Full particulars
from F. M. Olkmknts Newtown, N.S.W.
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
spriijkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that ?’ meaning the liquid,
replied,- “ Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on the flowers.*
Among tne many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
Shai.vky, has spared no expense to make his hotel the first
in Sydney *
H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED
Established 1853.
Are aa usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prlcea
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention Is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments :
UEBEL ad LECHLEITEB PIANOS,
The Wonderful VIGTOE PIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
BRL! Co,
NeW And improved models of othef makers
just rerc'qived, also an immense assdrt-
-'UrSejphsbf new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
>Obtaineil Elsewhere.
V *V V;
Ilustrated catalogues'mailed on application, but
enquirers are to' give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument Required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable ? * >
W. H PAUHG %GO , W
358 GEORGE STREET,
from G.P.O,
Sociely
The carryings-on of certain of the clergy of
N.Z. must occasion much adverse criticism on the
golden shore. Until a few months ago a leading
Church was bossed by a reverend gentleman whose
principal characteristics, apart from his piety,
were a sandy beard and a nasal protuberance re-
sembling a sunset in a cheap chromo. This parson
did not prove a good “draw,” and the seekers
after divine truth waxed fewer and fewer under
his ministration until there was a big deficit in the
fund for the payment of the stipend. The parson
at last shut up the church, put the key in his
pocket, and seized the communion-service in lieu
of the salary due. After much bickering, the hat
was passed round, and the unpaid .divine was told
to send in the electroplate and he’d get his
‘ thirty notes.” Wise in his generation, however,
he would not trust his reverend brethren, arid told
them in effect to fetch along the coin and he’d
hand over the articles. It has now been arranged
that the parson and a representative of the Church
shall meat at a public hall and each get a fair grip
of the article of exchange, so that there shall be no
chance "of one or the other playing “low down.”
The Chinese of Melbourne are refusing to
admit unbelievers to the Albert Park Joss house.
According to all accounts, many strange rites go
on inside the’ temple, imitation Clistians being
brought before Joss and thumped until all the
sawdust runs out of ’em. After which the high
priest gives handfuls of Clistian remains to as
many lepers as are there present, who spit upon
the sawdust and say “ Allee samee lallikin, damee-
blastee, no fear.” Joss is in favour just at present,
but the lepers are a fickle crowd and will likely
enough thump their poor old deity before long.
Here’s a ne w wrinkle
for the poor clergy. In
America they now raise
money for church pur-
poses by means of a meet-
ing called a “Sociable,”
in which all Ihe young
ladies are put up to auc-
tion. This causes a great
attendance of youngmen,
also of old men. The
man who bids highest has
the privilege of seeing
the young lady home. If
a lady has a sweetheart
present he forks out his
last dollar rather than let
another fellow escort his
girl. Some of the
wealthy old deacons and
elders run the young men
hard in this way. This
all sounds very dreadful
at first. But when you
come to think of it the
girls are nearly always
put up to auction —by
their parents.
The other day there
came a thundering
rap at the window of
the ticket-office at the
Kyneton (Vic.) railway-
station, and with ex-
emplary rapidity the win-
dow was thrown open by
the genial ticket-clerk.
But he was lost in amaze-
ment when a buxom dam-
sel thcust her head in at
the window and ejacu-
lated—“ Brandy and
soda ! Quick, please, the
train’s coming.”
In Ireland recently a
young couple of the
farmer class were to be
married, but, at the lasb
m nnent, the girl’s parents objected to paying his
dowry. The bridegroom had be p n shot. at and
wounded some time previously, and was still under
police protection, and the bride’s parents argued
that if he were murdered soon after the marriage
the dowry would be paid for nothing. Finally a
compromise was effected, and the two were mar-
ried, the husband receiving £no down, and a
promissory note for £lOO, payable in 12 months,
if he were not shot in the meantime !
» • *
Apropos of servant-girls and jealous wives,
an afflicted husband remarks that his thorn in the
flesh considers ugly maids the most dangerous.
She argues this way : My husband makes love to
the pretty girls, while the ugly ones make love to
him.
Can’t the frogs and snails of Australia be
brought under the notice of Pasteur and Co ?
We might establish the industry of exporting
frozen frogs’ legs.
* *
On board a N.Z. coastal steamer which re-
cently stopped at Nelson for a few hours were a
West C >ast lunatic and his keeper, en route for
Wellington asylum. As time permitted, the
keeper, being a good sort, took his charge ashore
to have a look at the town. They also visited the
various pubs, and refreshed. When the time
came for embarking again, the happy pair were
seen going down to the wharf together in reverse
order to ♦h” tin which‘her quitted the ship. When
they 1n . , -uwp jr u.a Due lunatic in charge, but
on their return the “loony” had charge of the
keeper. The keeper was drunk, the lunatic
wasn’t. How mad he must have been !
* * *
Bustles and godliness are, according to the
Salvation Army, quite incompatible. Captain
T. E. Moore recently wrote to Captam von
Alexson : “I do not think your wife is at all ia
a condition to lead others away from the world
and sin, and must say I am astonished to think
you could uphold an officer, though she be your
wife, in dressing herself in the manner Mrs.
Alexson did. She was kindly reproved and shown
the wrong, but persisted in wearing a bustle on
her back that disgusted every decent person. Until
I see her in sincere godliness I cannot send her
to another station. ’
Of late they only drink one toast at official
spreads in Victoria. The assembled fossils rise
with a pious expression of c mntenance and say
“Her Majesty the Queen,” all together. To which
the waiters respond with a muffled “God bless
her! ’ and the banquet continues from where it
left off. Which reminds us that Her Gracious is
kept at the head of the poll, so to speak, by a sys-
tem of plural voting. The same old crowd of free
guzzlers go about from booth to booth drinking
her health and metaphorically plumping for their
fetich. And so that there may be no doubt about
the unanimity of this “loyalty,’ no man who
wouldn’t rise from his seat at the required moment
is allowed to have a seat at all.
* *
It is hard to take up a newspaper, nowa-
days, without clutching one pore proof of the
Queen’s womanly sympathy with somebody, and
without finding that she has graciously loaned her
blessed name to something that didn’t want it.
We now read how the Royal Humane Society of
Australasia has received her willing permission to
administer “ The Queen’s Medallion ” for profi-
ciency in swimming. No expenses attach to
this permission because the Society pays for the
medallions, which are distributed among schools
where the little boys play best at saving each
other from watery graves. There will now be
savage competition for the new medallion —a
touching indication of the Sovereign’s sympathy
with boys who can swim with their clothes on.
# *
Governor and Governess Musgrave, of
Brisbane, had been giving receptions to empty
drawing-rooms till Carington came as a sudden
draw. But now the Antarctics are sheol to the
Musgravian “ At Homes.”
. *
In 1829 a practice was established of
bestowing two square miles of land on each
native-born young lady on her marriage. How
many of our first families owe their independence
to this act of generosity on the part of theN.S.W.
Government ?
A BAD SPEC.
HUSBAND (at a lale breakfast) : “MY DEAR, DID YOU GO THROUGH MY POCKETS BEFORE I
GOT UP, THIS MORNING?”
WIFE : “NO, I THOUGHT FROM THE CONDITION YOU WERE IN WHEN YOU CAME HOME
LAST NIGHT, THAT IT WOULD HARDLY WARRANT THE TROUBLE.”
This is how they report a social event in
sunburnt Queensland :
“Tucker —Grub.—On the first of April, on the second
section of the Cairns railway, under special license and
exceptional facilities, Julius Caesar Alexander Chrysostom
Tucker, graduate of the Navvies’ College, P.H.J.Z., of the
Pick and Shovel Society, oldest- and youngest and only
son of Theophilus Abraham Budgery Tucker, and ninety-
third cousin of Baron Baal Gammon Tucker, of Pie-melon
Hall, to Octavia Laodamia Celestina Amaryllis Grub,
eldest and youngest and very unexpected daughter of
Cornelius Anaximander Plantagenet Grub, of Paw Paw
Lodge, and lineal descendant of the first Marquis of
Binjie. P S.—No cards, as no gambling is allowed on the
premises.”
• •
Mr. Phil. Gullett, late of the Sydney
press and now proprietor and editor of a paper at
Lancefield (Vic.) has had two serious troubles
lately. His mother died and his house and its
contents were burnt to the ground. Phil, had
gone to the railway-station to meet his wife and
children, who were arriving from Melbourne, and
when they came he had no home to offer them.
• * •
Alexandre Dumas has been stating his
views on divorce in the Pads Figaro. He is of
opinion that conjugal infidelity is the result of
preceding environment, and argues that as na< ions
never have better government than they bring
upon themselves, so men only 'marry such women
as they are capable of marrying. No girl, he avers,
marries without the fullest intention of being faith-
ful to her husband, an 1 it is he that fails to realise
her secret dream.
The “ poverty dance ” is a Murkan inven-
tion which is reported to be spreading fast down
the Pacific Slope, and which seems to be eminently
fitted for export to N.S.W. It is a species of
hard-up entertainment, which starts in the
kitchen and overflows into the back yard, and the
one conspicuous feature of the case is that nobody
has a copper. The invitations are sent out on
coarse brown paper, and bear internal evidence of
having been written with the stump of a villainous
pen moistened with the sediment at the bottom of
the ink-bottle which blossomed last spring.
Gentlemen cannot be admitted unless they have
several patches on their clothes, and all wear their
coat-collars high up round their ears to hide the
absent linen. Ladies are dressed in calico, and
all sport broken boots and stove-in hats. At
supper a weak and tired species of tea is served
up in pannikins, and the guests reach for potatoes
with broken forks. The festive scene is illumined
with guttering candles, which totter wearily in
cracked tea-cups and retired jam-tins, and drop
large blobs of grease into the mazy dance, and the
hostess jerks the coals into the grate with her own
delicate hands, while the gentlemen guests stir
the fire with their feet.
# * *
Miss Grant, of Creswick (Vic.), fell bOffc.
down a shaft, the other day, and escaped unhurt.
A girl like that might venture to marry almost
any M.P.
She was the relict of a squatter, an
illiterate gentleman who “ riz ” by his own exer-
tions, materially assisted by a perfect knowledge
of the art of dummying. She was large and red,
and displayed a great lack of aesthetic culture—
ate hash with a knife, and laughed like a braying
mule. Her sweet unsophisticatedness, combined
with her lump of land and comprehensive bank-
balance, won upon a Melbourne youth, who was
originally designed to ornament one of the profes-
sions, but fell short in the reckoning. He asked
her to be his. She “was on,” arrangements
were perfected, and the gay young man duly came
in for his property. Then he proceeded to trim
his prize, smooth her down, and touch her up,
preparatory to leading her into “eassiety.”
He succeeded, after much argument, in con-
vincing her that it was inelegant and
unbecoming a lady to use swear-words of
more than four syllables, but could not get his
pupil beyond that. She persisted in cutting her
H’s, and startling her new associates with obser-
vations which are regarded as useful in urging a
team of bullocks to united and energetic action,
but are de frop in the upper circles. When
her ma-in-law, her sisters-in-law, and several
other lady friends were in company an article of
furniture was accidentally overturned, and it
dropped its sharpest angle deftly on to the fane
corn of the squatter’s relict. Naturally, “To -—-
wid th’ thing! ” was the first remark of the
aggrieved lady ; then, noting her hubby’s pained
expression and admonishing forefinger, she ob-
served with great humour: “ What, Geordie !
droppin’ me h’s agen ? ”
• • •
Ah Loy, a highly-respected heathen who
has his habitat in the vicinity of Echuca (Vic.),
became matrimonially inclined some time ago,
and he sent an order home to Cathay for a sweet,
young, girley-girlev pagan, with a pink com-
plexion and three by one feet. She arrived just
before the anti-Mongol outbreak, and the other
day the happy pair were welded into one, accord-
ing to the holy rites of the church of Joss; on
which occasion the heathens of the district congre-
gated together and raped with great violence and
held high revel, carousing over roast hog and pickled
pussy, and other delicacies, and littering the dis-
trict with licee and printed congratulations. Ah
Loy accepted the situation complacently and
beamed sweetly, and mopped up the provisions
with great gusto, till a red-headed unbeliever came
along, and whispered in his ear that the Victorian
Government would pile a great weighty poll-tax
on every blessed little heathen introduced into the
colony as a result of the union. Then bis face
fell with a flop, and hung limp and tearful. He
bade his countrymen no more rejoice, nor warble
te deums, but chant funeral songs, and wail the
plaint for lost souls, whilst he hid himself down a
hole, and sorrowed so severely that his pig-tail
turned grey in a single night.
* * *
A Melbourne paper makes marital law
“ martial” law. It’s all the same, but we just
thought we’d mention it.
A woman with a conscience hasvtranspired,
and at holy Adelaide, above all other places. The
S.A. Treasurer has received £2 3s. from some
female unknown, as conscience-money. Already
75 young men have, visited Playford’s office to try
and ascertain if the woman has any marriageable
daughters. Her honesty might be hereditary.
You never can tell,
* * •
Mr. David Walker, the energetic secre-
tary of the N.S. Wales Y.M.C.A., was presented
with 315 sovereigns and a gold watch and chain
just before leaving for England by the Oroya.
No mutual-aid association can exist anywhere
without doing much good, and it is incontestable
that Mr. Walker’s society has been a good and
kind friend to many an otherwise friend.'ess man,
who found himself workless and a stranger in the
land. The unpopularity of the Society outside its
own limits is caused by the fact that the good
work done is often neutralised by the hypocritical
tilt given to bm-iness relations through the instru-
mentality of the Y.M.C.A. If you advertise for
a clerk you will receive scores and scores of appli-
cations informing you that your correspondent is
a godly young man with a hymn-chanting connec-
tion and a predilection for knee-drill. Quite a lot
of people are so crass-minded that they don’t like
to see religion used in commerce.
• • *
A very mysterious case came before Sydney
Quarter Sessions last week in which a young man
named Albert Lush was accused of stealing a
pocket-book from the manager of a Life Assur-
ance Society. The evidence for the prosecution
was that Bush was seen to take the pocket-book
and pass it to an accomplice. Constable Curtis
endeavoured to arrest both Bush and the man to
whom he had given the pocket-book, when a
struggle took place in which the prosecutor was
severely kicked, Mr. Cohen, J.P., almost strangled,
and the constable had his thumb twisted out of
joint. Both defendants were, however, eventually
overpowered and taken to the lock-up. Williams,
the other party concerned, failed to put in an
appearance, but Mr. Bush explained that at the
time of his arrest he had £BO in cash with him,
and that he was not at all likely to commit a rob-
bery in respectable company, as he had plenty of
money of his own. This plea proved lo be so
reasonable and cogent that the jury found him not
guilty.
• • #
A good deal of literary style has been
wasted at times over the pompous, over-dressed
female who goes shopping, and after looking at
goods of all descriptions for two hours, ultimately
buys one square foot of calico and has it sent
eighteen miles and three furlongs to her residence,
which is down the three-hundredth turning on the
left; and it will be gratifying to many to learn
that the lady has at last been crushed. A London
draper ha,d been worried for years by a bloated
widow who gave herselt' airs on the basis of a large
stone-front mansion and a promising bank-balance,
and when at last this patron turned his shop up-
side down for a whole day and then ordered a reel
of cotton to be sent to her residence, he cast off
the yoke and rose in open insurrection. That
evening a huge four-horse waggon struggled into
the square "where the customer resided, and in it
stood six brawny labourers holding on to some-
thing which seemed to be struggling in a frenzied
manner at the bottom of the vehicle. After much
swearing and manoeuvring the caravan was backed
into the pavement opposite the house, and then'
the widow ascertained from the window that her
reel of cotton was standing up on end in the centre
of the dray, with six men holding it down for fear
it might break loose and spread devastation down
the street. At this juncture a long pause arose,
and the six men argued for upwards of half-
an-hour as to the best means of getting
the cotton on to the pavement without
shaking the houses down. Ultimately two
of the party let go, beseeching the others to hang
on like grim death in their absence, and skipped
away in quest of a p’ank. This being brought,
the reel was let down by a rope into the street and
upended on the kerbstone, and then the whole
party tackled it and fought to get it up on the
doorstep. Five times it proved too much for
their combined efforts, and the gang went down
in a heap on the footpath, but the sixth effort was
successful, and the cotton was safely landed on
the step. By this time the square was blocked
by spectators, and the widow’s residence had been
a holy show for the public for two whole hours,
while the owner of the property foamed inside and
tore the hair which she had bought cheap at an
insolvency sale. But when the circus outside
came to an end she suddenly boiled over, and,
going to the door, red and swollen with rage, she
solemnly kicked the cotton into the middle of next
Jubilee. She also refused to pay for it, but the
draper has about 1000 witnesses to prove delivery
and proceedings are threatened.


J. B. Pace’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
the most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by
all connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flavour. Pre-
pared so that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to th e
last particle with pure white ash. Try it.
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patbnt Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whit* Patbnt RoM.na Floub Is the
best In the market
Everybody should use PemeFs latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller, Floor. It is the greatest success of the
age.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 30, 1887.
My Dear Moorabinda,— “ Dorothy ” continues to at-
tract us to the Sydney Royal, and the solitary lady in the
orchestra, who manipulates the instrument which a per-
verse generation always associates with Tara’s Halls, is
still the recipient of much close and silent scrutiny.
There isn’t anything wonderful in a woman playing a
harp, that I can see, and yet nightly dozens of lorgnettes
are focussed upon that Theatre Royal harpist until
wonder how she can maintain her self-possession unde
that “stern and steadfast, withering glare” from th
D.C. Bless the D.C. ! It hasn’t any more “ manners,
sometimes, than a crow, and it looks like a crow in its claw
hammer coat! Apropos of “ Dorothy ” —I never befor
knew Nellie Stewart to choose such unbecoming colour
for her dresses, and its “more power” to her dimpled
elbow that she is just as bewitching in them for all that.
Apropos of “ Dorothy” once more. Were 1 Nellie Stewart
I believe that, as I looked from the stage upwards to th
circle and thought of old times, I could see, no matte
how full the house might be, many a vacant chair. Poo
old B , who in the “Tambour Major” days o
yore, was stick a swell and always in the front row', wher
now' is he ? Still hiding in Honolulu, I wonder ? Anc
dark-eyed “ Jack,” with his Mephistophelian face ? Dead
Many of them are dead and gone. On the night befor
the day on which Jack was found drowned in the Alber ;
Park Lagoon, at Melbourne, a friend of mine was walking
on Manly Pier. In his hand w r as a cane which he hac
carried for two year 3 at least, and which had been made
present to him by Jack aforesaid. As he rapidly pacec
the pier the stick slipped between the boards and fell int
the water below. “lam very sorry about that stick,” h
exclaimed to his companion, “it was a souvenir of ou
friend. I wonder where he is now ?” Next morning bu
one at breakfast he read in the Herald that the giver o
the stick (which w'as never recovered) had been founc
dead in the lagoon, at Melbourne, and it appeared fron
the evidence at the inquest that “Jack” very likely
walked into the water just about the very time when th
stick w'as lost in the sea. Did you ever hear of a strange
coincidence ?
Kate Bishop wtars a lovely gown in the second act o
“ Clancarty”—a pale-blue brocaded velvet bodice and
train, white silk 'jupe thickly embroidered with pale-blu
passementerie, ending in a dense glittering fringe round
the feet; diamond bracelet, necklet, brooch, and ear
rings. Miss Bishop spoils this dress, to my thinking, by
the addition on the train of bouquets and trails of gaudy
red and yellow artificials. It may be in the make-up, bu
those gay posies oppress me. In the third act Mis
Bishop assumes a peignoir of ivory-white Spanish lac
over an Indian muslin petticoat, trimmed at the foot with
Valenciennes ; a girdle of huge pearls and a diamond
brooch complete a costume that becomes her to a marvel
I hear that Miss Bishop is about to take the rest she sadly
needs, and that she will be succeeded as leading lady a
Her Majesty’s by Miss Myra Kemble..
What a cosy custom some pretty Australian society
women have of drawing the curtains of their theatre-box
together and flirting in the semi-darkness with handsome
actors who haven’t to change during the intermission
Even if poor, dear hubby suddenly came from the office
into the house, he couldn’t become aware through those
baffling wdsps of lace that “ducky” was artlessly chatter
ing with a handsome much-perfumed Thespian, in the
becoming trappings cf some hysterical role that has
just appealed strongly to her feminine imagination
How women do doat upon the “mummers!” My
own idea, after a very considerable experience of actors
and actresses, is that one should not destroy the illusion
by knowing the barnstormers off the boards. I used posi-
tively to adore a certain young lady, in whose presence
male humanity prostrates itself in the dust—until I saw
her at supper, eating in twenty minutes more beef-olives
and boiled onions—ye«, boiled onions —than I could dis-
pose of in twenty months. And I—who once adored
robust tenors—have positively abhorred them all since
poor old Massartic, the Marseilles Frenchman (now dead)
who w'as once ballet-master at Melbourne Royal, assured
me that a certain Italian, who used to board with him,
was in the habit of eating a whole Muscovy duck and
drinking two bottles of Burgundy at dinner. And what
havoc that same Italian played with women’s hearts in
Sydney !
The Sydney Hunt Club met on the 19th at Homebush,
and had one-of the most successful runs of the season.
The master (G. C. K. Waldron) is a thorough enthusiast,
and is g'radually communicating' his enthusiasm to his
supporters, who whoop along after the hounds with a
noble disregard of spills that is'simply delicious.
A personal advertisement in the S. M. Herald said
(inter alia) : “ What would Lovey do if Duckey died ?
Lovey would die tco.” Enviable state of constancy ! Of
course he would. Dye his hat-band probably, and mourn
“Duckey” despairingly for quite half a day! lam
sceptical as to the depth of feeling that prompts such
public sentimentalities !
One of the noticeable features of the German Fair was a
huge blue shoe—large enough for the proverbial old
woman u'ho ran the census up so—in which sat a “ real
live ” little girl, with such a pretty frightened face, nurs-
ing a doll. As the shoe with the mite in it w'as on one of
the stalls perhaps they were both for -sale. I suppose
they do it—“ abroad ! ” I wonder whether in Germany
the newspapers are allowed to advertise for people willing
o adopt babies and give “ £l2 premium ?”
Rosehill Club had a day’s racing pn the 22nd in the
presence of a large number of spectators, including a
great many ladies, none of whom, however, wore any
specially attractive dresses. The meet was rendered a
somewhat sad one by reason of the fact that the jockeys,
one and all, wore crape badges out of respect to the
memory of honest John Tait, and these acted as a regu’ar
“ memento mori” all day.
The Natural History Association of N.S.W., under the
leadership of Mr. Whitelegge, went specimen-hunting over
the oozy Waterloo swamps last Saturday. Twenty-nine
members followed the zealous leader, and after they had
all been bogged dozens of times and escaped awful chances
through crooked sticks jumping up in their faces—and
the ladies had been frightened to death by slimy lizards
Hitting under stones—their leader proudly unearthed a
minute bug which he impaled on a pin—and the Associa-
tion cheerfully went home to tea.
We are all pretty well accustomed to displays of
abysmal ignorance with regard to Australian topics on the
part of the London press generally, but the following
statement (in re our so-called Centenary), which I clip
from a London “Society” paper, shows what a dreadful
mystery w r e must be to those across the sea :
“ On the 24th, Lady Carington, the popular wife of the
Premier, unveiled a bronze statue of Her Majesty.”
There now 1 And I'm quite sure Sir Henry Parkes
thought all Europe knew' his name wasn’t Carington. I
am thoroughly certain, besides, that Lord Carington
believed that the whole world was aware that he was
Governor, not Premier, of New South Wales! The name of
the society paper in question is The Lady, and it is pub-
lished from the office of that atrociously Tory print,
Vanity Fair. So, if the Tories, who profess to be deeply
interested in the Empire, don’t know Parkes from Smith,
what can we expect from the “ common ” people of dear
old Hingland !
The wife of a well-known Sydney citizen is a victim to
GETTING MONOTONOUS.
YOUNG SLIPRAIL (taking his newly-married bride, an erstwhile pantomime and burlesque
fairy from London, over his squattage) : “You see we get on very well here
and only go to town when the clip’s off.”
FAIRY: “What in the name of goodness do you eat?”
Y. SLIPRAIL : “Oh, mutton and damper, and—and—damper and mutton.”
FAIRY : “Doesn’t it get awfully m’nuttonous, old boy?”
Y. SLIPRAIL: “Just a little—but—but it’s always hot mutton, you know.”
FAIRY : “Yes, I see, mutt’n’otonous! eh?”
Y. SLIPRAIL : “Yes, I daresay; I don’t know. That is— hum !”
kleptomania. The other night a gentleman spent the
evening at her house. When he rose to leave, his hat
was missing. His friend had to lend him one. Next day
the lady’s-maid found the heaver secreted in the klepto-
maniac’s wardrobe. However, a hat is a very harmless
thing to find in such a place.
A cricketing man, very well-known in Sydney—a limb
of the law, by the way—was a little while ago united in
matrimony to the girl of his choice, who happened to be
barmaid at a King-street hotel. lam told by many male
friends of mine that she was as popular and amiable as
the gentleman who is now her lord and master. This
item in a roundabout way reminds me of the fact that
two tolerably well known Sydney gentlemen have re-
cently married attractive Hebes from a somewhat historic
caravanserai, which is not situated in King-street. Each
of these ladies has since made a contribution to the popu-
lation of New South Wales, and in both cases the contri-
bution in question consisted of twins.
A matinee concert was given on the 23rd by the pupils
of the Clergy Daughters’ School (a benevolent institu-
tion which assists ministers with limited stipends to
educate their daughters) in the presence of Lady
Carington and a supporter. Clergymen’s daughters,
like clergymen’s sons, want a lot of looking after,
probably because as the Evil One cannot (presum-
ably) get hold of the gander, he exerts himself to
get hold of the goslings—and succeeds occasionally. A
certain wicked judge, who lived in Melbourne and played
the fiddle, once told me that the poor ladies who used
to come up before him in Court all said they were the
“ daughters of clergymen.” At the concert given by the
parsons’ daughters Lady Carington wore a gown that I
have described before, a smoke-grey tulle bonnet, and
scarlet parasol. Her Ladyship was handed a purse con-
taining the extravagant sum of eleven sovereigns, to be
evenly divided between the Queen’s Fund and the
Women’s Industrial Exhibition.
Lord and Lady Carington spent the afternoon of the
24th on Randwick racecourse, at the meeting of,the S.T.C.
Her ladyship wore a quiet costume of black silk, draped
over a pale primrose silk jupe covered with black lace ;
a black bonnet, “touched up” with cream satin ribbon
and strings, complexion-fall, tan gloves, and, occasionally,
a black embossed velvet visite bordered with deep brown
fur. There w ere present on the grand-stand the usual
crowd of excited female metallicians, who carry their
pencils in their mouths and shriek deliriously when
their “ fancy ” leads at the finish. Indeed, on Thursday,
one sweet creature in pearl-grey, in the delight of victory,
began balancing her race-book on her chin, and succeeded
to a marvel! Miss Dundas, who drove out with Lady Car-
ington, wore a simple dress of dark blue and white, narrow
stripes, covert coat of grey cloth, grey fur boa and conical
dark-blue straw hat trimmed up the front with dark-blue
velvet and white silk. A navy-blue parasol accompanied
the dress. Several very handsome and tasteful toilettes
were exhibited. A grey-silk, ornate with striped grey
silk and steel, bonnet to match, was well carried by a fair
and festive damsel. A crimson plush jupe over-draped
with fawn cashmere, crimson bonnet with fawn aigrette ;
a dark-green serge embroidered round the feet, sleeves
and loose fronts with gold passementerie ; full vest of
white silk. A dark-blue velvet with wide Boulanger hat
and dark-blue plumes, and a striped black and white-silk
with full front of white silk, looked best amongst the
promenaders. Three outre costumes were a bright yellow
satin with profuse matching passementerie, worn by a
lady vast enough to hire herself out as a feather-bed in
her old age ; a thin white liberty-silk which cried out
loudly for a visit to the wash-tub ; and a royal-blue plush
of such a very cerulean tint that the bright blue sky
looked green beside it!
Saturday afternoon at Randwick—where I strayed for
a brief period to see if Pentagon would win the Bracelet
(after all he was scratched !)—was by no means remark-
able for good dressing. Amongst the most prominent
costumes were : —A heliotr ope cashmere with handsome
side panel of exactly matching passementerie—bonnet and
parasol marvellously en suite. A brown cloth pinked out
over cream colour- slashed on the shoulders over cream—
“beef-eater” hat and plumes to correspond. Black
velvet costume with r est and jupe of white plush boldly
designed in black—“ magpie ” hat to suit, were among the
best. On the “other side of the hedge” a gorgeous
creature in crimson skirt, red cock’s-feathers, and blue
“gamp.” A print frock which showed underneath a
velvet-and-fur dolman, and (“ honest Injun ” this !) yet
another who did the “larn,” grand-stand, and paddock,
in an unclean-looking neutral-tint dust-cloak with pins
supplying the place of missing buttons, untrimmed,
battered straw hat and bare hands ! were amongst the
most astonishing. The last described may be a million-
aire’s wife for ought I know'. One cannot go too much on
appearances, nowadays.
The gifted Essie Jenyns returns to Sydney Criterion
next Saturday evening.
“ Clancarty,” at Her Majesty’s Theatre, is a fearfully
pathetic drama, and women who go in with nice pink and
white faces get streaky with weeping, and wash all the
rouge ofE their cheeks on to the tips of their noses, and
consequently aren’t very beautiful after the second act.
In the first act Miss Bishop wears a crimson plush dress,
draped high on the left hip over a coppery-pink jupe;
gold cord, and heavy tassels round the w aist, and crimson
plush hatwdth plumes to match.
Governor Carington’s levee didn’t exactly draw a
house on the 26th, but the starchy swallow-tails
who attended were well put through by “E. W.,” who
ntrochiced several novelties in the formalities and scored a
success. Lord Bertie hovered, like an unquiet spirit, on
the verandah, wrestling- with the public bpdies, and seve*
ral individuals who had found out at the last moment that
their dress-shirt wanted a button were, it follows, “un-
avoidably ” behind time, and missed the chance of claw-
ing “ The Baron.”
Everybody is asking why men don’t marry. Not being
a man, I can’t answer this knotty question, but I think
the reason why the girls who went to a certain suburban
Amateur Athletic Club’s sports on the 19th inst. don’t
marry, is because they aren't brave enough to link them-
selves to so invalid and declining a generation. When
these noble athletes stripped for the fray, a sorry scene
of pipe-stem legs, “champagne ” shoulders, faces pale as
pie-crust, and hollow coughs, prefaced most of the events.
A man requires muscle to be married. If you don’t think
so, ask a certain newspaper-man who took his wife to a
recent ball. At this whirl of gladness a total stranger of
the sex that shaves behaved to Mrs. Newspaper Man in a
manner which failed to meet the approbation of her
hubby, who, having inveigled the clownish one by soft
words and gentle wiles into a private room, then and
there administered what has been described to me as “a
grandfather of a licking.”
I hear that recently J. C. Williamson—“ John Sfcofel”—
gave £7OOO for a house at Elizabeth Bay.
Yet another “ servant-galism.” A Sydney woman was
accosted the other day by her high-waged housemaid,
"’ho, taking the crumb-brush off the sideboard, ingenu-
ously remarked, “ Oi ’spose, mum, oi’ll swape the hearth
wid this thing- ?” Another high-priced exile on being told
to address her master’s children as “Master ” and “ Miss ”
So-and-So, broke out, “ Oi will, but they mustn’t be afther
calling me ‘Mary,’ thin 1”
A professional man recently arrived from abroad tells
this story. He was at a high-toned Sydney dinner party-,
where a number of social lights—gilded fossils, legislative
antiquities, and oilioial relics of the past, and the wives
and daughters thereof, were gathered together, and in
the intervals of energetic dining- a few ponderous observa-
tions were passed round. Journalism was talked of
among other things, and the stranger languidly
remarked: “Tins Bulletin is a very amusing
paper” he stopped just there and looked around,
for the air had frozen. Everybody's jaw had
dropped right down under the fable, and consternation
was printed on each elongated countenance. Then a
weighty man of several hundred years of ago breathed
hard, and spoke in solemn accents. “I trust you will
spare us any mention of that paper, sir. It is most dis-
loyal—absolutely disgraceful, in fact-very bad taste-
should lie suppressed, don’t you know- suppressed at
once. “ Well,” said the new arrival, with a vague idea
that he had put his foot in it, “ I didn't read much of it,
you know, but I thought it seemed rather amusing.’’
“ Mr - !” said the other man, leaning over the table,
and laying his forefinger down impressively, “ you don’t
knuw you really don’t—what an awful thing that paper
is. Are you not aware—have you really never heard—
sir, here his voice sank to a husky whisper of intense
horror, that it actually' writes about—good Heavens !
it is hard to believe such a thing '.—it actually makes
nasty remarks about the Prince of Wales!”
A children’s ball to celebrate the birthday of little Miss
Juba Nelson eventuated lit Marianne, Victoria-street,
Darlinghurst, on the 19th ultimo. A Gunsler
supper was negotiated 1 by the throng of young people
in a marquee lighted with Chinese lanterns and
adorned by hanging baskets, fairy lamps, and tree-ferns.
Of the grown-up guests present—Mrs. Nelson (the hostess),
in black arid diamonds ; Mrs. Caporn, in black silk, Mal-
tese lace, and Indian embroidered overskirt; and Mrs
Jamieson, of Warialda, in watered silk with panel of pas-
sementerie, were most noticeable.
I'ncle Sam intends to celebrate the 4th of July, in
Sydney, by a garden party at Botany. The occasion will,
I presume, afford us, as usual, an opportunity of seeing
the gentleman who always figures as a “ Canadian ’ upon
s Birthday seek shelter under the star spang-led
banner on the “ glorious Fourth.”
In Sydney, when they want to be very Battering,
they invariably “mistake you for an Englishwoman,
my dear.” Heaven forgive them !—Yours affectionately,
Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fasnionahle intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bull ktin Office.
Lady,—who is to be seen at every toney
gathering, assures us that she was a great sufferer
from nervous headache until she discovered that
by taking a tablespoonful of “Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine ” immediately on returning home this
disagreeable companion left her.
The Broken Hill silver mines still con-
tinue to yield thousands of ounces of silver, but
the supply of florins is wonderfully unequal to
the demand.
Social reformers will be glad to hear that a
Labour and Direct Exchange Association is being
formed in Melbourne. The system will include
the wholesale purchase of goods and their supply
to members at net cost with only the expense of
distribution added, the manufacture of produce
by co-operative labour, and the exchange of the
products of each other’s labour among the members
by means of written agreements or acknowledg-
ments, which can be exchanged for those of other
kinds of work, and eventually cancelled against
each other or honoured in labour at the request of
the last holder. Due provision wiil be made to
assure discharge of the notes in the event of the
incapacity, from death or other causes, of the
giver. All monetary business will be conducted
on the cost principle, as laid down in the above
instance of goods, and it will be understood that
members will pursue the same course in their
individual dealings with one another. '
Mr. Robert Byrne, who has just unsuc-
cessfully contested the seat for Melbourne Pro-
vince (Vic.) with Service, is a very old-time poli-
tician, and was, for a limited period, a Minister
of the Crown in Victoria. He was a member
of the large furniture firm of Beauchamp and
Byrne in the early days, and has been an advocate
for native industry for 30 years. There is a
pathetic incident in Mr. Byrne's life. We have
seen him in the witness-box in the Supreme
Court and in tears, whether of joy or sorrow we
know not. He was called by the late Dick
Ireland, Q.C., to speak to the characters of Mount
and Morris, convicted of participation in
the Carl “ blackbirding” expedition—promoted by
the notorious Dr. Murray. Mr. Byrne expressed
the belief that when Mount and Morris joined the
expedition they were unaware of the nature of the
business, adding, with tears flowing down his
cheeks, that, but for an accident, his own son
would have formed one of the party. Mount and
Morris were sentenced to 14 years’ transportation,
but were brought up on a writ of error, as trans-
portation had ceased, and on this technical point
they were discharged and fled the country.


Business Announcement.
JS"
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
ARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by the
i most Celebrated Makers.
NEWTON and LAMB
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
A
USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Very Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
®c
w,
CIANVAS FOLDING
j COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. fid.; BxB,
9s. ; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 455. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
A :
MERICAN PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging- space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
c
ANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
Gr
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
i
z ~
I
CE CHESTS,
All Sizes,
from 275.
NEWTON & LAMB.
JgIXCELSIOR
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 455.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices.
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
OJPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
80 make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON and LAMB,
If you want a suit of clothes, which, for fit,
style and finish, cannot be beaten, go to Leuschner
and Maguire, 72 King-street. *
At Marie Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
The City Provident Dispensary, 603 George-street, Brick
field Hill, between Liyerpool and Goulburn streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpence. The Resident
Medical Officer (a Legally Qualified Medical Praotftioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand,
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays 9to 10, Evenings 7to 9.
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Queen’s
Birthday Cup, May 24 ; 2000 Subscribers at 10s.
each. First Horse, £400; Second, 200; Third,
£100; Starters, £lOO ; Non-starters, £lOO (divided
amongst them), and 50 Cash Prizes at £2 each.
Also The Queen’s Birthday Cup, 3000 Subscribers
at 20s. each. First Horse, £1,500; Second, £600;
Third, £300; Starters, £300; Non-starters, £3OO
(divided amongst them). The Winter stakes, run
June 9th. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £BOO ; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please registrar all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dal veen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TATTERSALL’S
HQH37ES CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Frircipal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
‘‘ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities Ie
“Evening Nows." Address, “Tattersall’s," oare
of George A dams, Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery j
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the ether for result of drawing.
Government Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
The Chief Justice. I v _> s '
In the Matter of the Petition of
.1 OH ANNE LOUISE WILHELM INK
REIN HOLD, falsely called CA RD-
WELL, of Brisbane, in-the Colony of
Queensland, praying for a Decree of
Nullity of Marriage with THOMAS
ALFRED CARDWELL.
Victoria, by the Grace of God, of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen,
Defender of the Faith.
To THOMAS ALFRED CARDWELL,
otherwise THOMAS ANDREW CARDWELL,
formerly of Brisbane, in the Colony of Queens-
land :
We command you that within one month after
the service of this on you, inclusive of the day of
such service, you do cause an appearance to be en-
tered for you in our Supreme Court of Queensland,
at Brisbane, then and there to make answer to a
petition wherein JOHANNE LOUISE WIL-
HELMINE REINHOLD, falsely called CARD-
WELL, claiming a decree of Nullity of the
Marriage solemnized between you and her is the
Petitioner and a copy of which petition sealed
with the seal of our said Court is herewith served
upon you. And take notice that in default of
your so doing the hearing of the charge thereof
proved in due course of law and the pronouncing
of sentence therein will be proceeded with your
absence notwithstanding.
Witness—The Honorable Sir Charles Lilley
Knight, the Chief Justice of Queensland, this
First day of May, in the fifty-first year of our
reign a.d. 1888.
(1.5.) ALFRED DOWN.
Deputy-Registrar.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
In the Matter of the Petition of JOHANNE
LOUISE WILHELMINE REIN-
HOLD (falsely called CARDWELL), of
Brisbane, in the Colony of Queensland,
praying for a Decree of Nullity of Mar-
riage with THOMAS ALFRED CARD-
WELL.
\ypDNESDAY, the 9th DAY of MAY, 1888.
..Upon motion to this Honorable Court by Mr.
LILLEY of Counsel for the above-named Peti-
tioner, and upon reading the case on motion and
the affidavit of THEODOR REINHOLD filed
herein this day. It is ordered that a copy of the
citation against the Respondent herein and a copy
of this order be advertised twice at an interval of
one week in each of the following newspapers,
namely, the “Telegraph” and “Queenslander,”
published at Brisbane ; the “Bulletin,” published
at Sydney; and the “Leader,” published at Mel-
bourne. And that a copy of the petition and
citation herein and a copy of this order he sent by
post addressed to ALBERT CARDWELL, of
Paisley-street, Footscray, Melbourne, Victoria,
with a letter requesting him to forward same on
to the Respondent. And that compliance with
this order be deemed good and sufficient service of
the said petition, citation, and order upon the
Respondent.
Dated this 22nd day of May, 1888.
J. HARRISON BYRNE, Associate.
(1.k.) CHARLES LILLEY, C.J.
Business Announcements
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES,
— + —
3EC A. 3T 3MC A. Iff ’ S
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUND.
The most certain and speedy remedy for Coughs, Colds.
Hoarseness, and all Disorders of the Chest and
Dungs. It has proved itself the most successful prepara-
tion ever offered. The sale is increasing daily.
IT HAS A MOST PLEASANT TASTE.
In the nursery it is invaluable, as children are fond of
it Immediately it is taken Coughing ceases, rest-
lessness is gone, and Refreshing Sleep ensues.
No lady who has once tried it would ever afterwards be
without it. Prepared only by
A. HAYMAN & Co. (late of Neath),
15, Albemarle St., London, England.
Price Is. lid., 2s. 9d., 4s. 6d., & 11s. per bottle.
not in stock your Chemist will procure it:
1111 ———————,
BRUNTO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOXJR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wale*,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Stbbbt.
BRISBANE Edwabd Stbket.
MELBOURNE Spencer Stbekt.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spenoer-btrbet
"ISITORS patronising the above hotel, whicj
has lately had an addition of over 100 roomt
will find all modern improvements, such as light
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, showe;
and needle baths passenger elevator, electrii
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, no
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rel>
upon being called for early morning trains. Letter!
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices verj
moderate
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
Hotels.
ALACE FAMILY HOTEL
*- Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
I irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor.
C CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA
) N.S.W. First-class Family and Commerda’
Efotel. Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meet>
lYery train. J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Gkiod Sample Rooms
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
I, CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)
CONDUCTED on the same prinoiple as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A verj
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows!—6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6d.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE.
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor,
HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in abort
lown, situated oorner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
Is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brandß
illy. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies,
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
YORK HOTEL,
BROKEN HILL.
A. OLIVER ... Proprietress.
The Yoke Hotel affords all the comfort of a
Home; civility and cleanliness, combined with
Moderate Charges, being a speciality.
The Hotel is centrally situated for Visitors to
the Mines or Township. All the rooms are lofty
and well ventilated, and luxuriantly furnished.
Large BILLIARD ROOMS, in which are Two
Splendid Tables.
IST All Telegrams or Letters forwarded will
receive Mrs. Oliver’s immediate personal attention.
First-class Bath and Sample Rooms.
Something New in Sewing machines.
THE
BEALE PATENT MACHINE.
WHAT IS THERE SPECIAL ABOUT IT!
THE restless march of invention has enabled us
to bring before the public improvements of
immense value, to some short account of which we
beg your attention for a few moments. Our calling
s to relieve the home-mother of all that may weary
her in sewing, and to make the same throughout, a
pleasure. That we have during the last seven
years succeeded in so doing, scores of thousands
will testify. And to-day we are supplying a
machine whose range of work is absolutely com-
plete, transcending the hopes and dreams of years.
The construction and form are such as to place it
altogether above and beyond competition, for the
truth of which assertions, as of the following, we
humbly request that your own eyes may be the
judges.
We produce a FAMILY AND BUTTON
HOLE MACHINE in one. There is no other in
this market. There is no other in this world.
The “Button Hole Appliances,” so called, which
have from time to time been brought out in
America (we believe there are none here), and
which are advertised as attachable to any machine,
are all utter humbugs and utterly useless. THE
BEALL PATENT is a Button Hole Machine,
which presents exactly the same front appearance
as the Family Machine, but is expressly con-
structed and fitted to make Button Holes in addi-
tion to all the other work. There are three needle
channels, special needle plate, special shuttle, and
a most wonderful actuating mechanism in the
head. All this is the subject of an exclusive
Patent (Gutmann’s) purchased by us for the sum
of £7500. The whole cost of the Machine, extra,
tc the public is, cash, eighteen shillings. We
freely admit and openly declare that this special
mechanism is supplied without profit in the hope
of inducing larger sales of the machines. So far,
the plan has been attended with brilliant success.
By the Button Holer you may make very beauti-
ful Embroidery; a herring-bone stitch for
blankets, woollens, or other materials ; you may
do over-casting or top sewing—never before pos-
sible with Sewing Machines—as fast as you can
feed the work. And, above all, you can make
single barred or double barred button holes and
eyelet holes with the most marvellous precision
and perfection. Herein, the fingers of the
practised seamstress cannot with the greatest ex-
penditure of time and labour, produce work of
similar quality. And remember, the Machine-
made button hole, in addition to its beauty,
is inherently far superior, for each stitch
is Locked. Button holes which ought to
embellish a garment, are often only a disfigure-
ment. Look at our samples and judge the effect
of fine work for yourself. By all means have
good work instead of bad, especially when you
can make six perfect Button Holes while you
would otherwise make one imperfectly by hand.
Get a BEALE MACHINE, practise it —we will
teach you at any of our shops as often as you like,
and be satisfied only with completeness.
THE IMPROVED HIGH ARM. A great
desideratum with ladies has been ’he raising of
the arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods
to be sewn freely to pass underneath. This had
to be accomplished without increasing the weight
of the machine. In fact, the Beale runs with
wonderful ease and rapidity. It is almost silent,
all clicking sounds having been obviated. As is
well known, a good test of the finish of any
mechanism is its silence when in rapid motion.
A LARGER RANGE OF APPLIANCES is
provided than with any other machine. Samples
of work performed upon these we are prepared at
all times to submit, whilst an elaborate Instruc-
tion Book is supplied, which is alone sufficient to
explain their uses and their applicability to every
requirement.
NICKEL PLATING.—In our climate the ex-
posed parts of the machine, and the appliances,
need to be protected from rust. We have, at
considerable expense, added a handsomely nickeled
wheel, nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-
bar and cones. Heightening the appearance,
these improvements also tend largely to preserve
the parts. This plating is imperishable.
A MUCH LARGER DRAWER has taken
the, place of the cramped and clumsy contrivance
of former years. When closed it securely fastens
the cover, and is provided with a lock and key.
THE WOODWORK is handsomer than ever,
being always of selected and inlaid Walnut. All
of it has been exposed for weeks in the drying-
room of the Factory to a temperature reaching as
high as 170 degrees ; thus, when kept out of damp
and sunshine, it will endure our most trying
climates.
A SELF-THREADING SHUTTLE, of solid
steel, saving the trouble of threading by the end
of the cotton. It has an excellent tension, is
strong and simple.
The BOBBIN-WINDER is a marvel of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by itself,
as evenly as upon the reel whence it came, and
stopping of its own accord when the bobbin is full.
We have been told that the next improvement
will be a speaking apparatus. .No, the Beale
Machine will always be silent. It is a servant
that will never grumble, never rebel, never want
nights out, willing even on washing days. It
only asks for a careful cleaning now and then, a
snug dry corner, and a little genuine sewing
machine oil. Any other oil will make it sick,
and dirt of all kinds it abhors.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484, and 486 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Catalogues and Samples Free by Post.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE, we will
supply you with a Sewing Machine upon EASY
TIME-PAYMENT.
The Centennial year of Australia has been
marked by the bestowal on the part of the Queen
of a G.C.M.G.-ship upon Sir Daniel Cooper—a
man who spends abroad the profit of his fat Aus-
tralian acres; and a C.M.G.-ship upon a Mr.
Hunt, an Imperial officer. It takes many and
many a long weary year for Downing-street to
awaken to the fact that this is just the kind of
thing to alienate the Australias entirely from the
British connection.


Amusements.
Gr T K- E
Barry, and Herber
Messrs HTTr 'vrwo the , Mana B'ement of
, , ■ i ® J 1 HUGHES and JINKINS.
CARRIAGES ordered at 10 30
THE EVENING
™ E JUNGFRAU KAPELLE.
SWWS Band ’ fountain Singers, and Tyrolese
An „ J odelists.
AC teK£Ss-£s«r.
in their National Costume. 1
a distinctly novel entertainment
V„„- . . . Winch for
™ t^f£ y * anc K«? i “! l silence, ha,
never been Equalled in Australia.
Prices
Box Plan at Nichnlson’s
55., 35., and Is.
-HTolo
D °° n ’ open 7;
EAST TWO NIGHTS OF
10M TAYLOR’S IRISH HISTORICAL PLAY
CLANCARTHY. CLANCARTHY
m Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
J° P M SrmJ N a h n*”?" 16 ta ’ m 10 to *•
• MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
T H E rf
Mesara der tlle Management of
Lessee M7s T mBon ’ £ arner > and Musgrove.
Open at 7.15. Commence aUpCa Goodman -
18 ‘ Carnages at 10.20.
A»» , s?s i v ! a 6
?*” Y
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s!
STANDARD THEATRE
9th
WEEK.
FRANK SMITH’S cjfcj,
burlesque company. WEEK.
-To-night, Thursday, to-night
BLACK-EYED SUSAN
BLACK-EYED SUSAN.
ohit BRIOK
Me Proprteto M , g
Mr rrcttod® Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
£j-ST 2 NIGHTS
LAST 2 NIGHTS
“ H snd ggfr™
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL ON RECORD.
TO-NIGHT THURSDAY, MAY 31 i 8 8S
.I 'OEWMfeL
n
m^lv thecretai Y. entitled
THE PICKPOCKET.
Business Manager _
Mr. Joe Davis;
c A D E ii Y
Lessee
Sub-Lessee
O P m U S I C.
Hiscocks.
Miss Rose Clifford.
THifl SUCCESS of
JsSsfSfSV
B °hem lA n o^ca L roMKin-
Enthutiastic Bgg Cotnedian,
PART, entitlpH
c „ ROSIE S TWENTY Ftrst
o °w ed by the comedy,
>I,IZABETH E aM bSoRDSTREETS
' lir “ y , opposite Exhibition Bwldin* IBL
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening
a nd Co., Proprietors.
Ihe Largest Amusement Palace in the World
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent T,v,u
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seat W 5000
spectators. A Perfect floor of ®■* i
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors 8
Skates purchased from us will be 1
others will be charged The
ZpssSESSSiSSf -a*—
SlonThe mlle glVe exhibitio ? s of Ms wonderful
N 9 pa' nT he BRaIsBAND oTthe 8
aftmioon^andfevenii^ 11^1 bob?e Selections every
m^Sf^thfSik rynyWird ' sqn,,re ev -y **
tion e gates ntramS St ° P at Bedfor d-street, Exhibi-
ADMISSION. i
<£so Given Away
To Purchasers of the N.S.W.
CENTENNIAL ALMANAC,
which has been pronounced by the Press to be the Rear
Aimanac ever pubhshed in the colonies the Best
-hacn Alinanac contains a Coupon entitling the hnlfW
, Centennial Almanac Prize Distribu
M C Vf», place ou tlle 30th June.
«*.«>«*.».»*,«, **
Send Six Penny Stamps to
BATSON & CO., 195 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for a copy, and thus stand a chance of their Gift of
£2O for Sixpence
Amusements.
Alhambra musio watt
S°Mfn treet ’ Haymar^ efc ' ’
Stage Manager
minstrel shows° PULI *
COME AND GO,
b UT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
4th year FIELD and jfu
4th year FIELD o,!a xf a 4th year
FLOOR to CEILING with OUSE . “ PACKED from
audience. an exci ted and delighted
POPULAR PRICES,
2a..Stalls, la., Balcony, 6d.
K E w
L “ S " e Thirt wee? S n S’h?A'- K - B - Wi ™“
. , u . harry eicklrds*' 80 '
1 Adnuatnon—Dress-Circle, 35. , S, 2s. . Pit, i s .
\\ 1R T H ’ S G B AND CIR CUS
NEW YORK EQUESCURRICULUM.
Location : HAYMARKET SQUARE.
Every Evening at 8.
Gigantic Success !
Houses Crowded to Overflowing !
Hundreds Turned Away !
BEST CIRCUS EVERJWEn IN SYDNEY !
4 LADY EQUESTRIENNES! 4
It wm be something exciting' in the extreme.
** FOR IT!
Prices 35., 2s. and Is.
anfSATURDAfcrfoM WEDNESDAYS
admitted for (id Fntrn c i ric i; .All Children
in Hay-street, and to KHnPßtSreet.
ALEXANDER, Business Mai
iheatre royal, K^MPSEY^
me?tXS^S n i eU ' fi^ed Placeof amus °-
adjoining the Royal H^^“ P compTeted!
bAsfisft
CARL BASCHE,
Proprietor.
yiCTORIAN ARTISTS’ SOCIETY^
aasr
Entrance from Little Lonsdale-street, E.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Admission, Is. Catalogues, Is.
A shfield^creatioFl^^
*- AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating Every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
SKATING!
SPORTS !
SKATING !
SPORTS!
SKATING!
SPORTS!
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
gOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Orand Sacred and Classical Concert oe
Well-known Artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest f
Under the Conductorahlp of Mr. Chas. Austin
Grounde, Ib. Children Free.
FRANK BMTTFT. Director
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM BATH*
and pleasure grounds. ’
GlG ™° SucCE f of the Palace Skating Rink
Fin Jf h rin ßK^ T S^™ MINGt b ath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia
Entertainments Every Afternoon
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price
A. E. STOPFORD, Manage.
Co., e i4i a Su’ m g d st Sr B “ es - P - B - iVey i
WANTED, by a YOUNG LADY, an Em
gagement in an Opera Company For
mrms and particulars, apply M. E J GP O
1 Rockhampton. ’’
pIOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages
Bullion Office ° OVe RiverB ‘ APP I ?’
Hotels.
GUREMDOFHafELIbiiir
THB BRIGHTON OF
nnvr
JEf JENi Kcj Vv"
ort S > °°“' 6B^ 9 “ ete ’ I ‘^ P^i 2 I HS| DI BMa “I™ 1 " 8 p ” Mes ’ «»•. am
here aim joT hava baloon l“ the magnificent ?iow of the S”.‘“a™ 8 a “° st
S-g-K-“ £3 £s SSS&ffiS
«£ss=srsf£ss
Mr.. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
wr BEACH, MA>
THE SPEARING HOTELS
Sorrento and Echuca, *
‘Victoria,..
Thk CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 63 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies
Baths. Beverages Iced.
iik B, Sjiaiiig h Go,,
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
royal hotel, deniliquin, n.s.w.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, Is 6h .
eading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Strict. Mr . Rfi BPEARINGIS
Thirty Years experience as a Public Caterer Is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
s deration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive. *
Prime Apartments. Private ana P„b lloßaUu
J- I. 3. Spring,
-Business Announcements.
NERVOUS DEBI L I t
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK. * 1
Will r’ 8 ™ 1 " 1 “ Ne ™" S D “ e “ es ’
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of Sufferers. * SE Add,™ s-° R Nervous Debility
Danish HerbaHst
■<?
1
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark “ The Greenwich Observatory ”
«- «<*
mrnim, remim, imornm,
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
A.P.S., Englaml-
, lT „ Agents:
W. H. FLETCHER * PIA C„, Srm
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
A li UVHu ±j x oUL 1 N
'jwaTJtofot Domplexion, soft, smooth and delicate «
n “ «* a™, ot all
of hard
s ? S£lS"™?^
:l " * 8 ” 6,1 lnd sa «• *■» **>™®: stiles of half a® anu>
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL
nnlri'S*" for WrVSSd JSL”' promot ‘“ the frowtfc «*»® »*ir.art
ROWLANDS’ ODOfJTO V,
& ,ss-»wsi «•
wholesale and Retail Agents Elliott Eros., and E. Peossee & Co., Sydney
©
=ss
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FAPTfiRV
bicarb CUSHIONS, &c., made on the premises TORY(
Old Tables re-fitted by our own
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS
BURROUGHES & WATTS
1, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDON
LEA&PERRINS'SAUCE
T o a rTnv Utt l Ce r °f Imitations °f THE WORCESTERSHIRE
■iiAC/CA which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Pertini
f q o st iha/ - Pur * haser * see that the label on ever? foul*
ban their Signature thus— '
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Stopper. LE w£usaifindfcr £xpo% the /W ° n t J Vr *{s* F ' ***& BottU ***
WWmtot&utii MoNTsnomt. Joss™ & ckT! d*vu> “C eTdnsT


Public Notice.
THU BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from tha Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces —
Religious Interference In Polities.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is fonnd
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
Influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once he seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
I From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
üblication its success was assured. It had at
nee a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
f which even took, so far as was possible, its
ame. They are now all dead, while The Bijl-
■etin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
ocal and distinctly universal Australasian news-
taper.
The hullbtin proprietary have, during the
ast year, spent some thousands of pounds in
itting their buildings with the latest appliance?
lor high-class printing and the production of ihus
irations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
.n an entirely new form—printed with hew type
jf improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus
hralian journal which, throughout its career, hat
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the \ only Aus
tralian journal wh .ch denounced the Soudat
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forcefxil summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now afflicts Bntisb
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of mattei
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin h
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by iti
own unequalled stafF.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated ot all paper*
published south of the equator, and is the onlj
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar,
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
■Ranges A paper which -is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of Tkk
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able^ S-easily ascertainable .from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
Other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleoo, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial comment
iftUons to be vldr**in<d to J f AncHiutu
In December, 1836, three public-houses
and one shoemaker’s shop formed the nucleus of
the city of Melbourne
A man lately purchased a piece of land
from a Sydney syndicate for £5O. Before his title
was completed he paid his lawyer £4otees
This nearly wipes out the philantbopic banks.
Ob, My Back!
That lame back is caused by kidney disease.
Stop it at once by dr. bell’s (Kidney and Liver)
bitters.
man’s Original and Genuine Ghlorody p years
Siese maladies manhSt themselves, at once arrests their
they are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.
* t ovfly and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob-
A LiO\ kl dawt ivbs’ KaiaYDOR, an emollient and
“rSisitE sss
sunburn, tan, irecKies, reu. d so ft f air an d
cutaneous eruptions, &0., P cosmetics, which
delicate skin. tooth;
p°owd«, wSl”n.SSteeth. Aek chemist. ior RoWL.mx
articles.
MRS. PARTINGTON SAYS
Don’t take any of the quack rostrums « thsyweje^i.
A Melbourne policeman deposed at the
inquest on Gillet for poise,mng whom-accKlen^
ass? r? 1 :
had hannened.” For presence of mind m a
moment l of peril you can’t pack a policeman.
TWO ORGANS.
ills that mankind 18 heir to, m this > j thing that
toJe two
or How'm M G r~ Strength. Take after each
remedy‘for 'con-
this diet, is truly ma • d £ ronc uitis, is un-
SSA'S.©" 1 Aw
75*2 Rou.illon, Madeira,
Old Port Claret, Hock “ngd High-class Wines are
S to’be had y from Hockinos of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death msecta.
Simple in powder, being certain death to
genuine In , 8 ? 0 * ®5 s st^ ile g it harmless to animal
ls. boxes y Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
sis as <«» “«»™° ti b, “"
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Good News
On edit to be told, and it is good news that dr.
bX bitters has cured the worst of kidney
diseases, and can do it again.
L’BA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
II
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
ANTI PAY
AND PAY _
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
A CHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, HETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
Me Agente te Queenilmd.
AIM Importer, ol RwrMle. “S'ES
Fnv "" rab "'
Business Announcements.
Hours
Dandelion Site
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken tw®
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity fdr children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affectidns.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known. ,
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will nrd
these Bitters invaluable,
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two cr three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the Quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,-1 have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for, affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
nroducing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for-so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Rh
: is
3
W
\f \.SOi,D
leverywhere
Bow’s Staane’a Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to he followed b? greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Bow's Steano’s Win©.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row s
1 Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often u?ed in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates. , .
(Signed) JOHN M‘KILLOF, Analyst.
“ Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Bow’s Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur
passed*
TRY THEM.
Hotel-keepers ail keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW'S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROWS YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROWS ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROWS ASSORTED WINES
Sole Proprietors,
Edward Row & Company f
♦3. «S. 47 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
I KfWyj'iU Mas £ /w. l l i'o 1/ *#*
a Lock h/kkt PeA J
j^ A y wCAif if“ hea ßT 9
|v1 AT Tr't’-oF- Fact frffl . '' I' n l ,i<us
fo of?L/Cf£ /otA f}©y,' IffeAiLy tf
f c Spo’L "TVf t fhEST w> Cj / w )vy CoUPCfi°f/ t


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
Renewable or withdraw-
- able on notice in
terms of Prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8,10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George Street, Sydney,
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and Silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,*
Cutlery Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING.
Is still the most popular Brand in the Market,
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG and AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, lls.,
145., p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American), flnelv flavored,
best value in the market. Jib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREYAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AIT AIN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 . and 682 George - street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY.
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.
THE KIDNEYS.
Thousands of
people have taken
bottle after bottle of
medicine, under the
impression- that they
were suffering from
Bright’s Disease, or
some other' Kidney
malady. A correct
diagnosis or examina-
tion, in nine cases out
of ten, would dem n-
strate the fact that the trouble lay in the Liver, the
Stomach or the Blood. This delusion is conse-
quent upon the varied, startling, or alarming ad-
vertisements bearing upon Kidney Disease, which,
in embracing the symptoms of Dyspepsia and
Liver and Blood complaints proper, are regarded
by thousands as proof positive that they, too,
have fallen victims to Bright’s Disease, or some
other forms of Kidney affections. In ninety-nine
cases out of every hundred, when you experience
the symptoms found at the head of this article,
you will find that Impure Blood, Dyspepsia, and
Biliousness are the fathers of the symptoms ; and
any remedy that will give tone and healthful
action to those organs will remove the last vestige
of Kidney Disease. In a large majority of cases
the Kidneys suffer purely from sympathy, as do
other organs. Purify the Blood, rouse the torpid
Liver to action, strengthen the Stomach, and
it will invariably disperse all traces of Kidney
Disease. It is a proven and substantial fact that,
with a healthy Stomach and Liver, no such thing
as Kidney Complaint was ever known, bell's
bitters will relieve and cure you.
lITHIII ’ISSt t tl,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES
AND QUEENSLAND.
SYMPTOMS.
Pain in Loins
High Colored or
Colorless Trine
Incontinence
Fever in the Parts.
Home Items and Topics.
—“All your own fault,
If you remain sick when you can get Dr.
Soule’s American hop bitters that never—Fail.
—The weakest woman, smallest child, and
sickest invalid can use Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters with safety and great good.
—Old men tottering around from Rheumatism,
kidney trouble, or any weakness will be made
almost new by using Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
SW My wife and daughter were made healthy
by the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
and I recommend them to my people.—Methodist
Clergyman.
Ask any good doctor if Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are not the best family medicine on earth !
Malarial fever, Ague and Biliousne js, will leave
every neighborhood as soon as Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters arrive.
“ My mother drove the paralysis and neuralgia
all out of her system with Dr, Soule’s Hop
Bitters.” Ed. Oswego Sun.
Keep the kidneys healthy with Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters and you need not fear
sickness.”
—lce water is rendered harmless and more
refreshing and reviving with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters in each draught.
—The vigor of youth for the aged and infirm is
Dr. Soule’s Hop Bitters ! !
f —“ At the change of life nothing equals Dr. 1
-! Soule's Hop Bitters to allay all troubles
l Incident thereto. J
“ The best periodical for ladies to take monthly,
and from which they will receive the greatest
benefit is Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
—Mothers with sickly, fretful, nursing children,
will cure the children and benefit themselves by
taking Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters daily.
—Thousands die annually from some form of
kidney disease that might have been prevented
by a timely use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
—lndigestion, weak stomach, irregularities of the
bowels, cannot exist when Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are used.
A timely ■ ■ • use of Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters will keep a whole family
In robust health a year at a little cost.
—To produce real genuine sleep and child-like repose
all night, take a little Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
on retiring.
None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Keci.-u.s.sltes_
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
38 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES' BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS PREE.
LICHTNER - & CO.
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, ANb
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undei fc kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—who . (there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaric trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symp toms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to he a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and Yoik
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office houis
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—" IMPERIAL."
AH Grooers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
50 CtARENOE-STBEET.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of •
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
MARSHES, also FINEST BUM of HEARS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices !
Kf Note this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette— the
“SESOSTRIS” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHIULIMGS EACH!
43T By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent,
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
ii sarrace steest, mm
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD. (SBO. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
ttoffiSSMSES* “«»■
THE BEST QUALITY BRTAR RIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons Imitating the brand. B
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE-STREET.
»BD. ass.
pt^wS*! 6 £”*? of this BRAND OF BRIAR
WHOLESALE'ONLY 8,1 ShipmeßtB ocmi “S forward
rjIHOMAS buckland.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
„ „ Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vio.
Hotels.
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very-Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
Paris Figaro says: “The most observed
of all Queen Victoria’s entour age is a grey donkey
she brought with herirom England.’ Who is he ?
A touching story of prison influence on the
human mind comes from Hungary. Seventeen
years ago a fellow was shut up for murdering his
mother. He was released last month, and left
jail an “ altered man. ” He didn’t want to murder
his mother .any more, but went straight to the
house of the judge who sentenced him and shot
M i r - S V' Tudge in mistake f or the other fellow. After
which, the altered man relieved his chastened spirit
by firing at everybody within range. At latest
dates he was still uncaptured, and understood to
be blazing away at the moon
It is not accurately known where poor old
Kaiser William has gone to, but wherever it is
there is a chance that he may meet the founder of
his hard-drinking line in these latitudes and have
a chance to compare notes. Some 500 years ago
the old Emperor Sigismund went round to“6he
international pawnshop of the first Hohenzollern
and raised £lO,OOO on the province of Brandenbu g,
and the ticket was filed away among the archives
of the empire. When it run out it chanced that
times were bad and it was a hard winter for
European monarchs. Sigismund himself was
hustling for plain food, and the empire was in a
harrowing condition and filled with dull, sickening
thuds and funerals. The Imperial sovereign him-
self had to come round in disguise with the
interest for fear he should get killed, but this was
only staving off the evil day. Finally one cold
morning he didn’t settle up in time, and the
economical forefather of a line of kings foreclosed
the mortgage and started business as a potentate.
Sigismund by this time was too thin to remon-
strate, and so the new dynasty went ahead and
prospered and overshadowed Europe, but even yet
the Prussian kings sit down at times to contem-
plate where they might have been if that ancient
Emperor hadn t floated a bill 500 years ago.
The N. Z. rabbit is avenged upon his
enemies and now he elevates his tail and smiles.
Somewhere about a year ago Mr; Chamberlain,
M.L.C., of Auckland, evolved a device, consisting
chiefly of spikes, which he proposed to fix arouiid
as many male rabbits as he could catch. This
scheme was put into effect about a month ago.
Sad to say, tin Only thing that was damaged was
the talented inventor. How it came about no one
knows, but in the morning Mr. Chamberlain went
out to experiment with his heartless patent, and
in the evening he was found dead, with his feet
on a bank of vegetable mould and his head in a
water-logged burrow.
Dear Bulletin, —I have a grievance. I
am a South Australian, and although pretty well
acclimatised to the back blocks of N.S.W., am
yet woefully ignorant of the wonderful laws
which govern the conveyance of passengers on the
local railways. Having accumulated by “hard
graft ” on the Darling back-blocks about £5O, and
being very ill, I determined to visit Sydney to
see a doctor. I arrived in Bourke on Saturday,
and found that I could go no farther that day
than Dubbo. By consulting various complicated
pamphlets and other literary productions tacked
up at the station I ascertained the price of the
tickets and found that I would by breaking the
journey en route have to pay nearly one-third
more than by going right through to Sydney.
Now, in Victoria, you can buy a ticket for any
station, and you can take a week to perform the
journey, extra charge, thus giving a
stranger the privilege of seeing the country.
Being unable to stand the wearisome drive of
24 or 25 hours in a second class-compartment, and
being unable to pay a first-class fare, I had to
stop on the way and to pay extra for so doing,
notwithstanding that I travelled no further.
Surely this state of things can’t be generally
known or the country people would buck a little.—
Yours truly, “ Crow-eatek.”


2 lift, &yt
of. £2cro/o<L, ' - ye-CL-r,/-
- So A Tf> Turkey roosT- fSf ~
« 1 d l d^'r
■MI Tot
a****’
f,Lcfe d1 ° *'
"V;; *
i>) *“+ L n\ /**
, V'* J-o]MW"m
r 1 m //!
,i v? i M la
ro 1
////[ tyZysfifiTi/pAWKP'
1 7 -' J /%s
/’ Oo?,r
?% O.
V. 4.4
%y\ v
Sh%\
Sfir
m
f'ir r- V
r ‘
{£
AUSTRALIAN FRUIT IN
LONDON.
London, Saturday.— The shipment of
Kew South Wales apples which arrived liava
proved of "very inferior qualify and are
mostly worthless,
; P / ip
/ J il ' u wtx
4ft*
xa. y Y i
, v s >
VW v ’>-
Things in General.


BfiHe Vue Motel,
P «,® RISBANE ’
ent Houses, Botanical Gardens,
aad Queensland Club.
FAMILY HOTEL.
ORATION FOR NINETY.
A Walt
' Br ® eo ts every Steamer.
please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
u 8 *■ Me a o j A L
1 ToWn^, U 1 A L HOTEL,
VILLE >' QUEENSLAND.
for Commercial Gentle
Phi„ Private Sitting-room without
S2**)• Fip R K„? 8 and Shower Bath. Billiards
W to*' Ch !' f - Charges strictly
Sisen. aad Spirits of the best brands.
HAN Ran, Junr., Proprietor,
NOTICE.
v T K T ± n T
N tL toiaf otm tIS® firm of Howry & Bouton)
h >Jf % v ni Y? erous friends of the Firm
to tat Ub ii c that he has gone to
yJ?* e charge of the SUNBURST
JV, n ‘ l 1 s uper V i O i eilcefort hhe carried on under
’ L/?', Sunburst Hotel, Mount
p ated > and facing the cele-
-B r ®ons vis itiug the celebrated
,on thciJ ery coln fort and convenience
JfO rw e! l.arrival. -
BILLIARD TABLE
STABLING
HORSES, and
walk of
fo Rock-
?w.?* THI RTY hors
S«0« ' Coache-i n“l five minutes’
v, th „Pj from and \
Ml 0^ ae address-
Jot th e i A E L BOLTON
N R u'l? 0f Q L °wry & Bolton),
Mor gan H ° T
L,
SI ~ HOTEL,
hket, Rockhampton,
h.. *W»« SS Eamily Hotel.
*2** Shower Hath.
ilin» QOm ’ wit hout extra charge.
J 4g 8 ' Ever y accommodation.
’ W ILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
2, 0;p WALES’ HOTEL
3 ST<
fronting
a, and within five minute
Rot and cold baths withoi
011 ART HOTEL,
«J?*BSto A ° KAY -
fta velii C a commod ation for Com
h Cr uers and Famiiw
, fc h f lr ' ““ u
cHEir -
%rt of -f r ® VERY Steamer.
a Special Study.
Rooms.
„ / V - ROBINSON, Proprietor.
i HDT R •OULBURN, N.BA
%> aiifi otwi° d n tlon for commeroit
U . M5$B S Private sitting roomt
}o - 8 SIM ONS, Proprietor.
SL,
» «fST-STREET, ROCI
X V p ro p r j e tor.
\ “Western Chan
A re Com - western unai
friends Rockhampt '
fc. ‘ Vr
— __
QUEENSLANI
Patronage of His E:
* sr^ 8, T\vn Accomm
«? tey buildings. Fro:
0f of W ? an he obtained i
' co mi)ll fl d . and within a fe
t, ~4 Wa v dail ~ Pany g Works, PnsSßTicri
i
•Sf O y9 <'«“ t ' atreet '
~ c”'
|v T WARE,
«w nrS**® AND SPIRITS
Jf °% to^SNTfor
° ld Sth? KR and SONS'
KWaad Whisky.
00, 8
S4ss*» s
4, J^wMWi
*^ssasar
Business Announcements
E. I) MILKS,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT.
Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
§?&*«** ft WMR4
/
oac£ it
W
a*
U^OR!:i.IAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOJn
and
Hate your Umbrella Frames -p*
core red, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equ-v;
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,'
Bnckfield Hill, between
Ijirerpool and Bathurst Strer*-
Parasols made to match c ■■
turces. Repairs neatly execnt-
T> OBE R T BUTCHER & CO.
XAj have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine aiid
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING
HATTERS
GEORGE
m
REET
m
Y
s
D
EY
MPOftTERSdFAtITHE
HI WEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
t H E ORI GI N a'l
SAKfN'c p r
a*
OBTAINEB A
v&
. 7.
k iy':;
&■<■■ t
ISTHE BEST INTHE WORLD!!
HONL OTR£R OUT
WAUC H 5
KZ2t • V t;) THE iNTCRNAI lON A l
f> R I T E M EDA L
sSABUfAcruit£o at Jakes Qwmm
Oakbcuk <& r -sro«»T
SaldbjrAO CnecsfSNyl
High-Class Dentistry. at Reform Prices
ARTIFICIALTEET4
PLETE SFT f l
*R & lo** *» ' J
A' t~~ J i]!
A
MARSHALL BRO
DENTISTS *
133 ELI Z AB Efl
T £$
Teeth painlessly extracted under nltr .» oxide
w i u daily at 11,
Business Announcements.
M
0 H U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iran Tomb Sailings,
Design* and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CTMSISKHAM,
MABGABM-STBEKT, WYNYARB-SQUABE, SYDNEY.
k WOIDSKFU MIMI
BEECHAM’S PILLS
%
r
-
Are admitted by 1 hou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, lo’ss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams',
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first doge will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in .thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
sor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be u ithout them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECTIAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound apd robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD Of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes o f society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beet-ham's Phis have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the'world.
BEEC HAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty-
in Breathing,' Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &e., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Astlnnatip and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled 'with any of the above complaints give Beecuasi’s
Coosa Plains a tei»l.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution. —The publid arc requested to notice that the
words “ Bbbciiam’s Finns, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-,
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 3d. each.--Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sypn.by Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital V.. . .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canaan, nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’leoted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIJ Acting Manager.
CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY or other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Oh. M„
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical 'Boards..of Victoria arid England, find the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”
53, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affeotions, Scrofulous Humors, Eruptions,
Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study or Business,
Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affections, and all morbid
conditions of the system. It matter's not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. It it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a ease unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing- for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that Ido not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address--
anmuui medical institute,
53, Funders Street W., Melbourne.
MP JV«> e&nnection with any other Mmiioai Institute in
Amt ratio.. Sox B*3, 0.P.0.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY.
WO t m
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
' W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney
of-jSydn£^
j£NQU^mfZSJ^miOUNrAINS&
WE can recommend the Imperial Haib
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
BRIDGE'S
rO©D
m INFANTS am INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
is now being introduced inti) the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should got a supply H
as every wise mother will certaiply
use it .
ROYAL FOOD MILLS*
LONDON. ENGLAND,
[ASTHMA? BBONMTIS.'cO UGH3~
AND ALL CHEST A ERECTIONS
AaTal'Lfr- I
iTTHA I
NLV ev <36,!
N« HAM.f
O C' K HAM FTP IN ■ u i
icpAueo o
NIAS i
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE
Syjta Ml Water Ge.,
IS CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
Perfeot Purity Gnaranteed.
! ' m"wVoiJi jj. oMtich# aim wmskirs,
Capurighua,
■EFOHS AfTW
Boyd*o Beard Mixiy did thin,
)«««4 do it on either bald
'head or bare face- Forma
heavy Mouetaeh* in from 9 to
4 tore kit and never fails, 20,000
. - young men
beards , having used lto 3 pkts„ file injury „ easily applied e certain:
in effect* Packets , It. 64. each, .3/or 3*; 34., paM„ #e»g unde-r
saver 0 free from AMre*s„ Efaamk ßMmfflfcSfl #£>fc -4gon8 M
goa- ■no, <g; m,, , *y.&»»"
s.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maketl
296 PITTfSTREET.
m
Marqttesß on Hire.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
«W!p#**e« all others forite lasting and natural
fragrance,
THnT.E Goto MEHitJI—
■?ARIS,IB7B, CAI,OUTTA,IBB4,
teff fr#-emlnent excellence of quality,
Atkinson's celebrated
BAIT B£ COLOGNE.
a* unequalled for its strength and delightful
fragrance, It far surpasses the numerous
compounds sold under the same name,
ATI.iHSQH'S OLD BROWN WINDSOR SOAP.
This world-renowned soap is superior to all
others tor cleansing and softening the skin.
It is strongly and beautifully perfumed and
. very lasting m use
Of all Dtaltrt, and of the Mannfactureri—
i, Sl E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond London


ftOYALttWA|
6
Pur@o
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
Nrcw South Wales.
—E»_ IR-
IMPOBTBB O?
MT WINES, SPIBITS, BBBE S, &C-, &0,, ■**
George: and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wtee’a
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
Ot The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t3T All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
m- SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
rasmss udies' ieueii boom ui imteit,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores - gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
aSTEJW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VENI,
VIDI V® l '
- H g jjgtaM
For Artißbio Posing and®hrilUaßOTi ttie
CHARLEM9NT &
royal ARCADL s)
STAND PRE-BMINENTL^^
th® a
T
HE WONDER Qg
COLEMAN® AND 30^
Pure Volatile Euca yP wor]
the only Genuine EucalyP t 0
GOLD MEDAL ADELATO®
—* -
those surra ring -vr euraig**’ ;ll »
lumption. Eheuinatis ’ aintSi 0;
Kidney and Gravel Co P
DIE a SAFE CURE. °^ al £or»«^*
MENT stands without a n
aasds and Bad Eyes, & 't
testimonials than any r eoeipt
escimoiuais * rpceiP L l %
Posted to any address Qintu lB^’ C
,f Oil, Is. 6d. and 2s. W., 9 ub^
, Is. 6d. and M.^■ » &ni 9 ud
d. Agent, for Sydney p ar k, --Xjl
T
he sc IE N C a E kbß) >O,
By W. Knox
, Old
A Book for Young _and u -
■pmipmpvßH an ov er
jound in cloth, and ca ?? a 33, Bi-
llons. Price, post P a L’ riß g ttf. o
(ample free. Those 1( j send .* >
mustion and Diseases ; p oo tor ‘ ,flli
raluable work. Addr * g o u r^
Post Office Chambers, cor
treets, Melbourne, VIC -_—-
0l -
FI There is not a country^
.e healing virtues of thes u gere*»' Liotiiii
cognised by thousands of ben efloJ
hnents of humanity then go pj)U /
gnised. Fullest dneotlonß, o» J
•Wry disease IF YOU
ctured only at 78 ° a bel <® f tot 1 * 0
lasers should l o °k to th h . gireo t,
the address is not 628 ux
>urious
G-'SEAT SiULE ©3T
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
■-»«'^ijsssssss: ■"“*
BULLARI), 343 GEORGE
"XXTTT ,T.T ATVT
CO.,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL &
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &0.
Grass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmith!"g, Blacksmithing. Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumacio Bell-fltting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH," “VALVE,” and “ PAN CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Cowls, Gas Fires, Meters,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PUCE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application,
ALFRED LAWRENCE
gi plTTo**'
g*DN**
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
BARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Crating, Soda-water, Wine and Cider
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vignerons for lees, Can
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting, Album 011
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakes’ Liquid
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Draw g,
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventitive of fustines** w
family use; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or^_
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon in country dis _ jj o yiio
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Kxtrac
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, ”,
niustrated Catalogue Post Free on Appliout
MT Publishing Office of “ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ J° UK^ l0 8
WINE AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW." Specimen dov
loylorßro-
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer &. Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
-.SOBTSS’S
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK'S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
SUCOX'TKZ’S
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
IVCOXTXC’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole Agents •
Mathey, Nathan & Co.,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
registered in Great $
late surgeon to W&Jg&tLP-
Resident Medical Officer 0
London, specialist for to t
and Heart Diseases, & * gt
Consultation by $O. *
charge, at Edgar House-
Hunter-street Sydney
— j *
* 0 i
L.R.C.P., Edin., ' ,»«1
uK
R I
0
0
D K *
Send for large B°u» pri® 0 ' //
for all Nervous His 0 ®
age, 6d. in stamps. a*®
and the Doctor will 60
case is curable or not. a fty,
DR. R I( 2
JSPBINaSTf^
rERALD BROS., o/W*
a advance), Six S f
uarter, or One PouuO .v
-« ua 0^
Thb Bulletin win ot
the office, George -81
the street.
V
Commercial Hoteli
THE above iB OJ« W lu
Squatting B® ro<>&'
reasonable. Sampl '
Superior aoooniiu .
Mrs. v
TO
A few of the many reasons for this bold assertion
HE most perfect Theodolite Tripod in the world is “ Wieaaner’S New Patent" with traversing head. M xew or me many reasons ror
the leading Government and private surveyors of the present time; it is lighter than the old style ; possesses ample traversing motion; cylindrical stem with broad steao. y
101 l and alternately of sun metal and brass): can be made any length from less than four to upwards of six feet ; any numoei
T
culars, or send caps of old legs along to WIESEYER’S STEAM EACTORY and OIRECT IMPORT STORES, SYOVEY, by far the largest concern m this lme m Aus
Most Improved Goods can be inspected or. Manufactured.
