

I LOOS OTJT FOE
“The BULLETIN’S”
ANTI-CHINAMANI
special itetlibee.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
Slb.OTTT'ira.g' "W'lei.sr
IE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
U> ensure supply, distant agents will please mail their orders at once
TtlJi EMPIRE HOTEL,
I |<|y CORNER OF
l,ter & Pitt streets, Sydney.
b?s* lin '— ——=— ■■■-.
first on rooins > Private buites or Apartments, Jt>est or Attendance,
nSl<^era^on ’ Position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
atfc ®&ti o if ments I )er i ec t. Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
SAUCE
J n c
'^l/Gp Uence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE?
have 7(> hick are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea and Pcmns
ht *n tU e^ eSI that Eutvhasers see that the Label on every bottl*
r Stature thus—
-I, Jith 0
no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
> 4*V. ; anaby Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
’sfxorb, Joseph & Ca; Davu> Cohen & oT SJyda&g.
THIS
“ PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR."
F
OR private use la unsurpassed. Ge» nine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use. Nevec
requires grinding, and we guarantee it fjr two (2) jears. PRICE, 10s. 6d. each. Send P. 3. Order,
a,aa.<±
POTOSI HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
680 GEORGE-STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
A LOVELY SKIN,
inanMfnl nomnlexlon, soft, smooth and delicate neck, face, hands and arms canbeet be obtained
all leaden and greasy cosmetics and cheap soaps, which, not being allowed
ridn any good effect on it. and by using
ftowlancLV
K&lgdor
• cooling, soothing, healing ai
exposed to the heat and dust of
and refreshini
summer or
.ration for the faoe, hands and arms of ah
and damp of winter; it eradicates freckles,
*• ' ■ T ’ the use of hard
endera a chapped and rough skin delightfully smoocn ana
pleasant, Gentlemen after sharing wiU find It allays all irritation of the skto;
ft is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, can be used with impunity on the
akin of the most delicate lady or child, _u
Is. 6d. and *a. 6d. per bottle; bottle, -jt oau the jsuas
alar at to. 3d.,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL promote. the vf tW hair ***<&
ip > »«.M m » colour for fair-haired people.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO
piw*Ming fragrance to the breath. A«k ai .
h t./"• » "i. anH! avoid che«n imitations
Wholesale and Retiail’Ao'enfcs— Elliott Bros., and E. Prosser & Co., Sydney.
whitens the teeth, prerent* decay, .od «WJ» '
Ask anywhere for ROWLANDS* article., ». Uattcw
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
TOBACCO
DIXSON & SONS
TOBACCO WORKS,
SYDNEY.
DIXSON & SONS’ CONQUEROR FACTORY
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES THE
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF, imported
into New South Wales, and hence the great sale
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco i*
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No. 1 machine made,
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian leaf
and Paris rice tissue. Full size, sold by all
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettes.
ARD MAN BROS
Go idfh Syrup.
AND
iRfACII
m
*i.«uTluiHu
Rff/NfRS
esro
jnnrrm^«n«rt'n<i*»lfti^i''"n >l,w w |Wll,|,,| y / 333
Hum
mITiOiRS
UQVjOa
HCA9 erncc * FACTORY, MWTQWH
BRANCH. ££ORCE S T SYONEY
Q
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD CUSHIONS, &c., MADE ON THE PREMISES,
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES, BALLS in stock, also CRICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
7, Uttle George Street, SYDNEY, H.S.W., and Soto Square, LOHDOS.
COLLINS-PLAOE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
[NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
to Visitors Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard' Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
to Visitors, attended to> Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MRS. M. CO* ES, Proprietress
CatJ HI E33STSI-.-A. IST 13-
Millar, carter and c 0.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office-227 Queen-street -
Sydney Agency— John Bros., 1/ Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay. T ,, ■
Melbourne Agency—T. H. \oung, Phcemx
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Business Announcements.
~WT E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
Aa the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city,
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address—
-96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doers from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office :
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND,
aganun ” mom mol
* general information office.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HBILTMTS
FRUIT
J,iTill COMPLAINT pcßUvely cured by MCKTLTOrTS
VnUIT PILU4 We non eured, not mewl? relieved, '»*»
(-jj .mre what we ref. There «re oo failures »»d »•
MOOLTON'9 PKUIT PILLS else cu"
SI^UUOUSNKBS, prevent CONSTIPATION *n<t DYs*
I'EPS LA, wrenoW DIGESTION relieve
«*Ung, correct DISORDERS of _ thu
■OtmXkto the LIVRU, regulate th<r BOWBLK, &nd 11 B 1
THB BLOOD. The Cheapest end Beet Pamily
Jksowtt, purely Vegetable (made of the &*!«£*<*
a* pearly perfect ae It la poaelhie *or a Pill to
(i*lo Irarywkere, I*r»«« H M.
c. f MOULTON Sol 9 Proprietor.
PILLS
Business Announcements.
The remington type-writer.
: sr n
Saves la bour, stationery, and time,'[writing mnoh {faster
than expert pen-men, at a condensing matter to less than
one-hair the space oocupied by nen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kenb-sbreeb.
RM, RILEY
• (late of Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. From K. M. K.’s long experience
in the Detective Foroe of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduot all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
rj»rr prescriptions «n to
rliCik be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFK,” for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De*
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address—
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hnnter-street, Sydney,
l SOVEREIGN REMEDY
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days ?
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION. >
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. RISE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 George-street, only.
Hotels.
Belle Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NINETY.
"A Waiter meets every Steamer.
Letters and Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
Mining exchange hotel,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
hiiQinPQQ
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
Commercial hotel,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
First-class Accommodation for Commercial Gentle-
men and Families. Private Sitting-room without
extra charge. Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards
(Alcoek’s). First-class Chef. Charges strictly
moderate. Wines and Spirits of the best brands.
Man meets every steamer.
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
JMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mr. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry & Bolton)
wishes to inform the numerous friends of the Firm
and the travelling public that he has gone to
Mount Morgan to take charge of the SUNBURST
HOTEL, which will henceforth be carried on under
his personal supervision. Sunburst Hotel, Mount
Morgan, centrally situated, and facing the cele-
brated mountain. Persons visiting the celebrated
Mountain will find every comfort and convenience
to greet them on their arrival. BILLIARD TABLE
and PIANO on the PREMISES, also STABLING
for the accommodation of THIRTY HORSES, and
a good PADDOCK within five minutes’ walk of
the Hotel. Coaches Daily from and to Rock-
hampton. Note the address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
Mount Morgan.
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath,
Private Sitting-room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
h irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS Proprietor.
JAY'S PRINOH OF WALES' HOTEL,
ST. KILDA.
THIS first-class Hotel offers superior accommo-
dation to visitors and residents, being in a
healthy and central position, fronting the Bay,
near Esplanade and Baths, and within five minutes
walk of the St. Kilda Railway Station. Private
suites of apartments, ladies’ drawing-room, gentle-
men’s smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
u
MACKAY.
NSURPASSED Accommodation for Corn*
mercial Travellers and Families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy Meets Every Steamer.
I make comfort of Travellers a Special Study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
N.S.W. First-claas Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets
every train. J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton),
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6d.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
JjIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Cburch Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiskjr, Proprietress.
Hotels.
UUNMtKUIAI HUTfcL, 80HLIURN,M
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for
gentlemen and others Pnvate^ng
sample rooms, JAMBS SIMONS,
Masonic hotel, bast-stree^^,
HAMPTON.-T. MURPHY, WOP &
Wayside Gleanings : —The w ■ <
pion says : “I can recommend th e
Masonic to my western friends.
M
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL,
Under the distinguished patronag c co#
cellency Sir a. Musgrave K.C.M- i ’-, ( jj ll gs. ""
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey d o ] )ta in
the balconies a splendid view can
the celebrated mountain of gold, an‘ pas'
minutes’ walk of the company s wo
and mail coaches dady from
Kibra railway-stations. W. MG
prietor, of the firm of Monckton an
Business Announced
iiits
T
iHK AUSTRALIAN BANKING
LIMITED.
PIT?
HEAD OFFICE CORNER pF gy
MARKET STREETS, £
Incorporated by Act of ExECuW
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLW
BOARD OF DIRECTORS"
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq./M.L.A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
v£.v&%
mold
The Bank transacts all usual Banking
accounts opened, Bills discounted, , » AS! e9C S»J l i'
upon all kinds of Commercial Securities. graO%*f'
don and throughout the world. Overdr . *
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. g
at call, 3 per cent.; 3 months, 4 per’ 0 { the
cent.; 12 months, 6 per cent. By ora
Directors. H. M'NAMARA, Secretary.
HOMA.S
oS-lV
»T A Ci
T
MINING, MACHINERY, AND
Chabtebs To webs- , d ,
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, o
„ „ Langland’s Foundry
E. T). MI
MINING AND COMMISSION
Mining Exchange
CHARTERS TOWERS, QUKK^ S
fCO
TUDY
5
”S^J?
ave
r. StJL^istr^
o »-> ** ' s«VJ
541 <je°sll,
Br>cicnc>“
wsfSS. *
THE ORIGINAL
BAKING PG^
WAUGH!
FIRST CLASS A'^ A
O R
.HI
CHEST DECREE ° F
WAUC H
F. rZZ iV i) THE INI
PRI T E
M C?
MARSH
TONIC NE
m
TONI c
Trade Mark
vj;
ARSHALL’S TONIC
p r o
Improves Digestion
Cures Nerv'O IIS
Sold by all Chemists and Stor
Prepared
MARSHALL B
Stdkht, N.S.W. ; LorfP
lOl*'


The Bulletin
Vo 1 . 427
SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1888.
P ice 6d
The Republican Q.C.


NOTICE.
By sending direct fo The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may 'pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note,-or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have Tim Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ivhoiji wd do not wish
to interfere.
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO ,
Limited
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ••• Hi 0 0
Half-yearly 0 Pi 6
Quarterly ' {> (> ®
Cheques, Drafts, etc., ami all Business Communications
to be addressed tv William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary Cum in anications to be addressed to J. K
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘■‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
■whether in tlie form of Political , Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short. Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not .exceeding, two columns in
length, or say $OOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission,
of such MSS.
ihsJ%aUetCa.
look OUT FOR
"The Bulletin's" Anti-Chinaman.
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PRO FUSEL Y ILL USTRA TED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
WILL BE PUBLISHED ON
Thursday Next, April 12.
To ensure supply, distant agents wilt please mail
their orders at once.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
SATURDAY, APRIL 7.
The God of Parochial Politics.
“ An honest god is the noblest work of man”
was the remark of a bitter agnostic of modern
times as he passed in review the tangled
wilderness of latter-day creeds, the great
dismal waste of arid dogma, and the bristling
forest of theories and orthodoxies and hetero-
doxies which man had built as so many
ladders with which to scale the skies. Around
him raged a world of warring sects and frag-
ments of sects which split hairs lengthwise
about miserable figments of ancient super-
stition, -find consigned one another to endless
perdition over the private differences of the
varied Stigginses who figured as the apostles
of each ephemeral church; and as each church
arose its own especial Stiggins constructed a
god to suit his own theories, and capsized
angels and archangels, and pulled down old
heavens and built up new ones, and carved
eternity into new shape to suit the little
knot of ignorant fanatics who propped up his
Bethel and worshipped at his shrine. They
were strange gods, too, who were built up by
these apostles of the slums. The mission of
each deity was generally to consign to undying
torment all who reviled or disbelieved the
new faith, and if only ten faithful souls
rallied round the Smith or Billings who
held forth from an inverted cask in a disused
stable the one central idea of that little band
was that they alone were the elect, and that
the mighty universe which had rolled on for
countless millions of ages had been built
expressly that they at last might find
the light of Truth, while the untold
multitude who had lived and suffered and
died on this little planet, and the innumer-
able billions who had tenanted the myriads
of worlds which revolve through -the...ini-,
measurable abysses of space would be lost—
for ever lost. This one idea was, and is the
central dogma of almost every creed, and as
each ungrammatical bigot in succession
erected a new distorted divinity, whose mis-
sion it was to save his own little gang of
followers, and damn all the Universe besides,
what wonder that the agnostic philosopher
exclaimed in bitter derision, “An honest
god is the noblest work of man!”
■* * *
Consciously or unconsciously every man
builds his own god. To the philoso-
pher and the man of science, the Unseen
Presence is a great, impalpable Law to be
sought out in the workings of the Universe
—a mighty Influence, which dwells in the
smallest leaf as distinctly as in the myriads
of burning suns—the central point of the
Cosmos—the great secret from which evolu-
tion started at the beginning of the everlast-
ing ; but the ignorant demagogue or the vul-
gar fanatic demands a personal deity whom
he may use as a missile to hurl at his
enemies, and in whose name he may perpe-
trate dirty jobs for his own personal advan-
tage. The impalpable Law of science is too
cold, too vague, too remote ; what lie seeks
is a supernatural power which he can use to
curse by, and whose thunders lie can invoke
against opponents whom he dare not kick—
a lord of clay who will serve • to overawe the
multitude at elections, and in whose name
he can get a billet. And, therefore—with
all reverence be it spoken—the God of the
Nineteenth Century is built by man. The
great and glorious Presence which was con-
ceived by the rude, fiery, yet poetic tribes
of old Palestine, and which they have handed
down to serve as the foundation-stone of a
once noble but now woefully debased faith,'
is not the figure which even the most
mercenary blasphemer could drag through
the mud of parochial squabbles, and so
each man, and particularly each politician,
erects his own Jove, and the land is filled
with divinities of common earth. In each
the character of the maker is reflected, and,
consequently, honest gods are scarce.
The Foreign-trade party of New South
Wales now professes to be the army of a
new crusade, and Pakkes, Abigail and
Haynes are the constructors of their deity.
There is something wildly, weirdly grotesque
in the idea that the most utterly despised of
all Australian politicians should be the
authors of a new Providence, but the fact is
indisputable. The tottering cause of foreign
labour and foreign shoddy was sinking to
oblivion and ruin, and the three apostles of
insolvency, usury, and vulgar buffoonery
conceived the brilliant idea of infusing into
it fresh life and vigour by proclaiming it to
be the cause of religion and holiness, and
rallied a band of faithful bigots under the
banner of imported pants and eternal salva-
tion. The Protestant faith for which men
of old fought, and suffered, and died, they
declared to be endangered by ad valorem
duties, and the wrath of the knock-kneed
idol which vaiidy attempted to pose as the
Gon of Abraham was directed against all
who wished to tax shovels and galvanised
iron tanks. “This is not a question of Free-
trade and Protection,” said the prophet
Pakkes to the electors of Cumberland, and
then followed the old dismal story of the
blessings of Protestant supremacy, with
eternal life in the distance, as the reward of
adherence to the party of German and Belgian
and Chinese cheap labour, and the curse of
Holy Roman slavery with sheol stalking be-
hind as the result of an attempt to protect
native industry against foreign competition.
It mattered nothing in an argument of this
kind that many of the foreigners against
whom the people of New South Wales desire
protection are themselves Bapistical, and
most of the remainder worshippers of Joss,
and probably few of Parke, s’s auditors
stopped to consider this point. A man
whose written assurance has been repeatedly
proved to be of dubious value on the back of
a bill gave them his verbal assurance that
the God of the Protestants was with the
doctrine which paid him his screw ; the
politician, whose knowledge of earthly things
stops at the letter “h,” informed them, by
implication if not in actual words, that he
had probed the fathomless mysteries of the
Unseen—the mysteries which prophets and
sages have pored over for countless ages
without lifting the veil by so much as a single
inch, and that the blessing of J ehovah rested
on his efforts to run an alleged Freetrade policy
and yet to collect more from the nation in
the shape of Customs duties than the most
protective of all the states of Australasia.
A new divinity and a new religion have been
built to keep Pakkes in his billet, and the
boss usurer and the man whose ears were
pulled in the House of Assembly are proud
of their position as the artists who have
assisted Parkks in preparing this handy
scheme by which the importer of shoddy
may be saved simply because he is an im-
porter of shoddy and nothing more.
♦ *
It is impossible for a vulgar, narrow-
minded bigot to produce a noble ideal. The
Chinaman, from the depths of his wooden
intelligence, carves out a dingy Joss, which
never rises beyond the dignity of a gilded
and varnished Punch, and the New South
Wales Freetrade leaders, in their efforts to
combine Freetrade and salvation, fashion an
invisible Joss to suit the spiritual needs of
the new crusade, and to scare a nation which
is weary of them back to the fiscal creed
which finds them in bread and tall hats and
.articles of vertu. Possibly, if such incurable
hydroeephali can exist upon the surface of
the earth, they may even possess some glim-
mering of faith in their own doctrine —it is
difficult to say. To three such dismally
parochial minds the possibilities of folly are
almost boundless. The ignorant fanatic in-
variably believes that the Lord exists for
the express purpose of damning all save his
own little sect —the inflated fanatic fre-
quently imagines that the laws of creation
were framed with the object of damning all
save himself. Outside the little world in
which Parkes revolves are countless billions
of times more worlds than the grains of sand
which make up the little spot called earth.
The smallest speck in the star-dust of the
heavens is probably a thousand times greater
than the globe in which Parkes himself is
only the shadow of the lost soul of an in-
visible decimal, and each speck may be the
centre of solar systems which stretch away
beyond the reach of human imagination, and
which, even then, are merely as a drop of
water in the shoreless ocean of infinity.
Overshadowing the whole is the immutable
Law which man, in his inability to'compre-
hend the abstract, has crystallised into
the idea of a Supreme Personality, and
which he worships as God, and somewhere
in the outermost bounds of the unfathomable
depths in* which His works revolve floats
the little mote which sums up all
that we actually know of the mighty
universe. Its narrow bounds are filled
with hundreds of hostile sects. Two-thirds
of the earth’s inhabitants are Buddhists
and miscellaneous pagans who, charitable
Christians declare, will one day be consigned
to perdition owing to their religious views
and their inability to comprehend other
views, which -few of them ever heard of.
Of the rest, about a fourth are Mohamme-
dans, who also are said to be going to per-
dition, and who are themselves convinced
that all the rest of the world’s population are
bound on the same road. Another section
belong to the Greek faith, and proudly
term themselves orthodox. Like the rest,
they are assured of their own salvation, and
they also cheerfully trust to see every other
creed on the everlasting gridiron. Then comes
the solid phalanx of the Catholic Church—a
band which is perhaps more thoroughly con-
vinced bn the question of all-round perdition
than any other ; and behind it that hetero-
geneous mass of human beings who make up
the Protestant faith. These consist, on a rough
estimate, of two hundred angry churches,
each one of which is more than half assured
that the other 199 will be damned ; its one
bond of union consists in a deep-rooted
though perhaps unexpressed conviction that
Mohammedans, Papists, and Pagans are
considerably more certain to be damned than
the rival branches of its own faith ; and
its creeds cover every thing between Pome
and atheism. In the little spot of earth
which has heard of Parkes are gathered
something more than half-a-million Protes-
tants, a great number of whom, owing to the
internal differences which make Protestantism
a mental labyrinth rather than a creed, be-
lieve each other to be lost. And, amid this
almost invisible fraction of one of the smal-
lest and most divided of all creeds, gathered
together in an obscure corner of a planet
which is lost amid an infinity of worlds, a
microscopic minority turn out to bang a big
drum once a year in honour of the time when
their faith licked another creed in battle 200
years ago. It is this latter section—this
ephemeral shadow of an absent fraction—to
which Parkes appeals. It is written in his
new creed that the Power which controls the
stupendous machine of the universe will
stop to consider their nothingness so long as
they vote the Freetrade ticket ; that the
colossal Agency which has governed the
springs of life for billions of ages, and which
will govern them for billions of ages to come
has quitted the lever to pander to their un-
healthy appetite for foreign-made boots ; and
a miserable handful of shallow fools have
accepted this doctrine and are prepared
to believe that a special Providence
watches over Freetrade and Parkes. It
matters nothing to Parkes’, s auditors that
almost all Christendom is Protectionist
—in their overwhelming egotism they
blindly accept the mission to lead the
van of Christianity by keeping the ports of
New South Wales open to foreign manu-
facturers and by being hungry and unem-
ployed while foreign Catholics, Protestants,
and Pagans grow rich upon their folly. It
is possible, just possible, that Parkes and
Haynes and Uncle Abigail themselves
credit the stupendous rot which they preach,
and if they do no pyramid of jackass-skulls
can be too high to heap above their tombs.
# • *
The combination of religion and politics is
an unnatural and an unholy alliance. Religion
in its true sense is a refining and ennobling
ideal, and it was never meant to be bound
up with a pursuit which, as followed in New
South Wales, is a compound of lying,
hypocrisy, hopeless selfishness, and every-
thing else that is debasing and vile. No
man possessing a religious sentiment superior
to that which animates the devotees of Joss
or Mumbo-Jumbo would drag it through the
mire of political life ; he would as soon
think of opening a fan-tan den with prayer
or of placing a family Bible on the counter
of a gin-shop. The dismal and blasphemous
effort to harness the magnificent dream
of the prophets and sages and martyrs
of old to the drays which drag the
products of Chinese slave-labour from
the Sydney wharves to the overgrown ware-
houses of York-street is the last and lowest
depth of mental degradation," ’ Tire* great
ideals of the past are now expounded by the
boss usurer of an obscure pawn-shop as a
divine revelation which was promulgated to
keep him from being biffed out of a profit-
able billet ; the poetry of the ancient
Hebrew king is garbled by an “ h ’’-less in-
solvent from Birmingham as a means of
crushing “withered tarantulas” and
“thieves, crimps, and 'blacklegs.” and the
teachings of the great Peacemaker who
came out of Nazareth are dished up as
a means of inciting riots at back-blocks
elections to serve the ignoble ends of
Haynes, who came out of Cork and who says
that his brother is a Chinaman. The creed
of the new politico-religious party in New
South Wales is that there is only one true
faith—the faith as it is in Abigail— and that
the outward and visible sign of grace is to
vote the Freetrade ticket so long as Parkes
is on the job. It is the old, old axiom of
Loyola which has been borrowed out of his
grave —the axiom which declares that the
end justifies the means. And it seems
almost blasphemy to write it—the means is
Gon and the end is Parkes.
When we view this monstrous circliln-
stance we are brought back to our starting-
point—Parkes and Uncle Abigail and Ah
Haynes have built a new god, and they have
built it according to their own ideal. The
old sages of Asia also had their ideal—they
conceived a magnificent, shadowy Omnipo-
tence ; a Presence which filled all earth and
heaven and space.; and the deep poetic fervour
of the Orient was lavished in the noble
legends which had their centre in this one
stupendous figure of the Everlasting. But
the thing worshipped is the reflex of the
worshipper, and therefore Parkes and
Abigail and Haynes construct an earthy
divinity to suit their earthy souls. Their
god is a clay parody—a deity to be driven in
the shafts of an electioneering waggon, an
earthen mockery to be appealed to in miser-
able parochial rows, and to watch over a
cause which lives upon selfishness, rene-
gadism, and Billingsgate. And as the times
change so will the divinity. Mumbo-Jumbo
himself is changeless and eternal by compari-
son with the gods of politics, -
The Halo of Royalty.
“ Herbert W. Hamilton ” writes us an indignant
note thus :-*■ *
“Sir, —Assuming that you really believe iu the truth of
the insulting remarks you make about the Queen, and
about her predecessors and relatives, you might have the
'decency to suppress anything of the kind, which is so dis*
creditable,.as loyal people do not like to read such things
as you often print.”
This is an excellent sample of a class of letters
which we constantly receive from wrathful
correspondents. Protests of this order are
based upon the assumption that loyalty to
a temporal ruler is more to be esteemed
than adherence to the cardinal virtues. If
we are not to voice disparaging truths concern-
ing a sovereign, the evident inference is that the
sovereign is more to be regarded than national ex-
pediency, or even truth itself. This estimate of
monarchy is consistent with the old dogma which
asserted the sovereign to be the direct representa-
tive of the Deity, appointed by Heaven to rule
over men, and inspired with Divine guidance in
all things, whether of State or private concern.
The theory itself has long since gone down before
the forces of enlightenment, but the influence of
the buried dogma is still plainly perceptible.
Driven from the heads of men, it lingers in
their hearts, and promotes a species of
idolatrous worship—reasonable enough when
the mediaeval doctrine of divine right was
upheld, but utterly without justification in the
face of the abandonment of that dogma. Methods
of thought, however erroneous they may be, are not
reversed by mere proof of their incorrectness ; the
habits induced by the operation of the old creed
are continued, although the creed itself be dis-
carded as false and vicious. As the reformed
opium-eater craves for his drug long after his reason
has convinced him that he must not touch it, so
Herbert W. Hamilton and others of his stamp
try to discover a divine halo round the royal
head, long after they have learnt to acknowledge
that it is not there, and grow vehemently wrath-
ful when less superstitious mortals refuse to join
them in their idolatrous worship.
•
There are two distinct bases upon which venera-
tion of the monarch may reasonably rest, and
similarly two grounds upon which criticism of
royalty may be constitutionally and lawfully ex-
pressed. Only when the subject is favourable to
the continuance of the monarch as an Estate of
the Realm and also able sincerely to applaud the
personal qualities of the existing occupant of the
highest position in the State, can he be reasonably
loyal: if either of these conditions fail, it is a
treason to the State or else to the moral code
to assume a reverence which reason repudiates.
Dissent expressed in the method which the law per-
mits is in such case the only honest and consistent
alternative. There is no more disloyalty in ob-
jecting to Royalty as the first Estate of the Realm,
than in urging the abolition of the House of
Lords, which constitutes the second Estate. A
Republican Englishman could use his voice and
vote for the abolition of the Monarch and heredi-
tary peers without being in any way disloyal to
the constitution of his country. The essence of
the Bi’itish Constitution is its representation of
the will of the people; if the popular will lawfully
expressed declared for a Republic, that form of
Government would then be necessarily adopted.
The Constitution is not the State; it is merely the
machinery by which the State acts. True loyalty
regards the welfare of the community; Toryism
strives onlv to uphold the existing form of Govern-
ment, and deigns not to enquire whether the
action of each of its parts conduces to the general
good. The consistent Tory,—the “Loyalist ”of
the Herbert W. Hamilton class, does not trouble
himself to leai’n whether the engine of State is
_improvementhe seeks not to know
whether its action is beneficial ; "Tie duly knows


that -it is there, and that it has certain parts, and
while he has a voice left him, he will howl at those
who examine its workmanship and criticise the
equality of the work it turns out. “ Whatever is,
is right.” So says the Tory, “the machine may
lose the gold of prosperity it was erected to save
the quicksilver of labour may “ sicken ” with the
sulphur of the hereditary system; the amalgam
we take up may be worth less, as you aver, than
the mercury bestowed upon the plates—-all these
things may be so, but you must not say they are.
Our ancestors constructed the machine in their
age of ignorance, and it is therefore sacred to us.
Reasonable loyalty to the monarch, besides
being assured of the usefulness of the system of
monarchy, must, as we have said, be satisfied with
the conduct of the sovereign for the time being.
The laws, written and unwritten, which eyery
sovereign swears to observe, demand certain acts
and forbearances as the conditions upon which
Royal authority is exercised. One Statute, for
instance, provides that the king or queen must
profess the Protestant faith ; if, therefore, the
Queen should become a professing Romanist, the
contract of Royalty would be broken, and the
people might rightfully declare, through their re-
presentatives, their unwillingness to permit the
further exercise of an authority that had ceased to
be lawful. And all subjects have a right to know
whether this condition is kept. So with all the other
conditions. The contract with the Sovereign is bi-
lateral, and each of the individual units of the
people may form his opinion as to the complete-
ness with which the obligations incident to regal
power are discharged. The people in former
periods of English history have decided that the
King had ceased to merit their support. Charles
I. and James 11. both lost the Crown because
they repudiated the obligations it involved, and
George 111. was deprived of power when he was
found to be a trifle madder than most of the
Guklphs. So now Victoria holds her sceptre only
by support of the nation ; her tenure is durante
placito —as long as the people who entrusted
her with power shall be satisfied with the
manner of its exercise. We freely admit that
Victoria is certainly the least objectionable speci-
men of her family yet appointed to the throne,
and has, we think, wrought a less amount of direct
injury to the State than any of her predecessors.
This is faint praise, and we do not hesitate to
accord it; yet, while admitting so much, we do not
abate one iota of our claim to enquire as to her
conduct, and that of other royal personages, and
to publish any information concerning her actions
which we may deem it necessary and beneficial for
subjects to know,
* * *
Arguments such as the foregoing may be unin-
teresting as a twice-told tale to the more thought-
ful Australians, but they, if we may judge from the
hysterical, royalty-fawning tone of the Sydney
daily papers, form only a very small minority of
our population. To the large majority, depths of
vice befitting a Little Bourke-street Chinaman
would be transformed into mountain peaks of
virtue ; lust, sufficient to brand a Mormon elder
with ineffable disgrace, would appear as gentle
courtesy; and stupidity unheard-of outside a lunatic
asylum, be reckoned as marvellous wisdom if
touched, with the hallowing influences of royalty.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Pulstord and Potatoes
Mr. Pulsford, the Freetrade secretary, lias fairly
outdone himself in dealing with the question of
potato-production. To justify his oft-repeated
assertion that Protection does not benefit the
Victorian farmer, he had the singular misfortune
to quote a passage from a report attached to
Hatter’, s Y ear Book for 1887, respecting the potato-
crop of the Warrnambool district. In the report
it is stated that the failure of the crop combined
with low prices had resulted in a loss of about
£lOO,OOO to the district. Had Mr. Pulsford
taken the trouble to make inquiries, he would
have ascertained that Protection had nothing
whatever to do with bringing about this result.
In the first place, the season was an exceptionally
wet and unfavourable one. In the second place,
the majority of the potato-growers of the
Warrnambool, Koroit, and adjacent districts, are
at the mercy of two or three large land-owners
who exact most exorbitant rents. In some cases
/the rent for an annual lease is as much as
the owners originally paid for the land,
and in other cases it is three or four times
as much. This state of things existed long
before the Victorian Parliament imposed im-
port duties on agricultural produce. Under all
the circumstances, the wonder is that the potato-
growers have been able to make a living. It is
certain that, but for the protection they have en-
joyed of late years, they would have had to .suc-
cumb. Mr. -Pulsford tries to explain why New
South Wales is almost entirely dependent on
Warrnambool or Tasmania for her supply of
potatoes, while she has, especially in her South
Coast district, large areas of almost unused land
quite equal to any in those colonies for the growth
of potatoes. Here it may be observed that the
Warrnambool potato-growers give the lie direct to
people who say that the Irish tenant-farmer is in-
dolent or is never happy without a grievance.
The writer can assert, from personal knowledge,
that the potato-growers of Warrnambool—who
are Irish to a man—are a patient, plodding, per-
severing, peaceable set of men, who toil early and
late for a bare subsistence, whilst their landlords’
families revel in the luxuries of life at Toorak and
other aristocratic suburbs of the Southern capital.
The Wool-Kings ami the Chinese.
A r r the instance of Mr. R. W. Thompson, the
New South Wales Assembly has appointed a
committee to investigate the Chinese question,
but as the result of the absurd custom of conduct-
ing the proceedings of ' committees in secret —a
custom which does not prevail in any other colony
--the public are kept in ignorance of the proceed-
ings. We know that Mr. Thompson’s sympathies
are in the right direction, but, as his actions are
shrouded in mystery, how are we to be sure that an
exhaustive investigation is being made ? If the
report of the committee is to be of any value it is
desirable that the truth should be exposed in all
its nakedness. To demonstrate the danger of the
yellow plague it is specially important that the
numerical strength of the Chinese in various
occupations should be ascertained, and with
that view some suggestions are here offered to
Mr. Thompson. In support of Garrett’s Land
Bill it is alleged that the concession of com-
pensation for improvements to the squatters
" ill open an avenue of labour which will absorb
all the unemployed in Australia. In this
instance it so happens (kindly take a note of this,
Premier Parkes) that New South Wales is Aus-
tralia ! Assuming that the squatters will be in-
duced to make extensive improvements —which,
let it be l’emembered, will provide only temporary
employment—it is fair to ask what class of labour
will get the preference ? To get an answer to this
it is reasonable to make a deduction from existing
circumstances. Is it not a fact that those hells
upon earth, the Chinese camps in the interior
(particularly those at Narandera and Hay) are
maintained out of the earnings of Chinese who
are engaged by squatters to “ lingybaky tlee and
clea’um sclub ” at prices which would hardly keep
white labourers in tobacco ? Is it not a fact that,
taking an average, the price paid to the Chinese
for ringbarking is less than half the amount which
the squatters are allowed by law to claim for the
“improvement”? Is it not a fact that the
Chinese have an entire monopoly of this and other
work on the runs, excepting the destruction of
rabbits? People who live in the city and
suburbs have some idea of the inroad which
the leper has made into the cabinet-making
and “ lettucee ” and “ libbon ’’-hawking busi-
nesses, but it rests with Mr. Thompson’s
committee to find out what proportion of the
Chinese population is temporarily employed at
squatter’s work, which it is assumed will be of
such immense advantage to the colony. The
Chinese population of New South Wales is larger
than that of any other colony, and if an honest
effort be made to elicit the truth, we have no hesi-
tation in stating that it will be discovered that
nearly one-half of the Chinese are at present em-
ployed by squatters in various capacities. Perish
the white man ! Live, the Chinese—and the
sheep !
♦
" Sideway , and I p and Mown.”
The voice of the people agitating for social reform
is beginning to be heard. Here is a panacea for
popular wants
“ Dr. Gatling,” says tlie New York Sun, has “ invented
another gun, which he calls the “ police-gun, and which
is designed for us ine riots. It is brass, "weighs 781b v is
mounted on a tripod with a universal joint, works very-
much like the Gatling gun, and will deliver 1000 shots a
minute in any direction —sideways, up and down.”
This gun is for use in riots, and, you observe, will
shoot sideways, up and down, besides delivering
1000 decisive replies to the social riddles pro-
pounded by 1000 people at once. Civilisation has
little more to offer after that. It is to be observed
of this little weapon that there is a great deal of
candid truth told about it. People are not
asked to admire it as a gun to be turned
against the foe. Nothing of the kind.
That was the old story. When people
had to be deluded into paying army-taxes
formerly, they were told that it was to protect
their homes and hearths, and their wives and
families. Then war wasn’t declared at all, and
the first-robbers of the State “ scooped the
boodle. ” If war was declared it was for the pur-
pose, as often as not, of making foolish people
fight against their own interests. Put Dr. Catling
is not that kind of man at all. He just goes to
the root of the matter and invents a little gun to
be used on the people themselves. The plain
English of a “gun for use in riots” is -“a
gun to be used on people when they
come into conflict with the upper classes.”
Every day the popular grasp of popular
questions is becoming firmer. People are asking
explanations of social anomalies every day more
earnestly and more peremptorily. The demands
of every age produce 'inventions to answer them,
and the questions that social philosophers have
given up are to be answered by Dr. Gatling’s
invention. This reminds us of a story of another
doctor famous in history. Dr. Guillotin invented
an instrument to cut talkative persons’ heads off.
It cut them off very expeditiously and very neatly
indeed. - But by the time it came into use the
people whose heads it was invented to cut off, used
it for cutting off the other people’s heads. Dr.
Gui llotin’s head was one of the first to be cut off
by his own invention. Perhaps in the same way
the people who give the order for Dr. Gatling’s
gun will be shot with it some day at the rate of
1000 shots a minute themselves—sideways, and up
and down 1
4
There are numerous signs of a complete dissolu-
tion of the New South Wales Parliament. The
sectarian dogs of political war have been let loose;
Parkes has arranged a stumping tour over nearly
the whole colony ; and wherever he has gone so
far he has offered the bribe of single constituencies.
There is great discontent among the Government
supporters, who complain of the half-heartedness
with which the business is proceeded with, and
Parkks’s irritation under their criticisms does not
tend to strengthen their allegiance to him. At pre-
sent the Government are being kept inexistence,
not on their own merits, but on the demerits of
their predecessors. With the Assembly so absolutely
beyond control, as it is now, it is unreasonable to
suppose that the Land Bill, the estimates, and the
taxation proposals, indicated in the Budget speech,
can be disposed of before,Christmas. If this Par-
liament continues it will be necessary, under the
Constitution Act, for another session to be com-
menced this year, but the chances are that the
next session will be the first of a new Parliament.
It behoves the opponents of the Government to be
on the alert, as any day may bring forth a surprise.
The only obstacle in the way of such a move-on
the part of Parkes is that no provision has been
made for the governmental expenditure of the
year, but that is hardly'likely to trouble him very
much. If he thinks that his own purpose will be
served by having a dissolution, the public servants
will have to do without salary for a couple of
months.
4
Ml’ Lord Portman is a gouty old person of four
Score years and eight, and far richer than a suck-
ing pig fried in batter. Now that the shadows of
death are closing round this venerable gentleman,
he has decided do make his peace with God by re-
fusing to renew the lease of the Samaritan Free
Hospital, which has long been the most respect-
able establishment on his Lordship’s vast London
estate. The Hospital committee represented to
this nice old man that it will be extremely- awk-
ward for the sick and afflicted to turn out into the
street all of a sudden, but it was no go. Port-
man will not have a lot of diseased
women and children trespassing on his land for
one day longer than he can help. He darkly
hinted to the committee that he would soon have
to meet his Maker, and he was quite sure his
Maker didn’t believe in hospitals while there were
decent medical men ready to prescribe at 3s. fid.
per visit. So the Samaritan Free Hospital will
immediately be turned into a music-hall, or a
skating-rink, and Lord Portman can await witli
confidence the inevitable summons to the Great
Squaring Up. He brought nothing into the world
and will take nothing out, except a few curses.
I hk Australian Natives’ Association,- a branch of
which is now under .weigh in Sydney, has good
reason to keep a wary eye on some of its presum-
ably irresponsible sucklings. Their society has
been formed “ as an antidote to Imperialism,” but
they must look after their young Tory friends,
otherwise they will be seriously compromised in
the estimation of the public. For example, at a
meeting of the {Prahran (Melb.) branch, a person
named Church worried through a paper on Aus
traha s r uture Judged by the Past, a study of whic
past had taught the genius that, with the increase o
emigration vice began to show itself in this erst
while pure young British dependency. Then he
went on to announce that “a tendency
socialism m the colonies would have to be checker
with a strong hand.” The meeting began to jil
just here, so the hopeful Native explained that by
socialism he meant “an undercurrent of revolu
tmn manifested in the lower grades of society, by
Labour trying to get the upper hand of Capital. ” I
is true that the doctrines of this particular Churcl
proved to be rather unpopular, but what is to
be thought of an association in which such danger
ous creatures are allowed to roam at large ? More
o\ er, in maintaining that vice came with emigra
tion the speaker was, doubtless, in touch witl
many other anti-new-chum Natives, who forgei
that their forefathers must have been free vicious
emigrants, unless they were sent out for doini
something they didn’t oughter. If a people may be
judged by their literature, then must the A.N.A be
judged by the papers (we won’t call them litera-
ture) read at its meetings. And if its sucking
authors advocate the suppression of Socialism anc
the keeping of capital atop of labour, then this
Association'has no claim to the prefix of “Aus
tralian Natives.” Bah! The Bulletin wouldn’t
buy such Natives as Mr. Church at sixpence f
dozen.
L’o what base uses, &c. Also the party who scoffec
remained to prey. He stole Archbishop Carr’s
purple bag containing in the shape of gorgeous
surplices, cassocks, birettas, and mitres, half the
mystery of the Church of Rome. And pawnee
them ! Pawned them for a feeble sum we cannol
demean ourselves to mention. Spent the amouni
m the most degrading brand of rum, too ! This
will show you how the sacrilegious serpent ol
scepticism is marching in seven-leagued boots
around the land. The purple property was valuer
at £7O. Let us see. Peter, Paul, James, 01
John, would never have lost that much. They
never had it to lose. We doubt considerably if
their salary altogether as advance-agents foi
bringing light to the world and laying tin
foundation of the Great Christian Company
L minuted —which has supported in splendour,
we forget how many hundreds of popes,
how many thousands of cardinals, how
many hundreds of thousands of bishops anc
priests in the old Church, how many millions oi
preachers, and teachers, and fat dignitaries, and
all that have sprung from her, from Nestorians to
Nonconformists, from Arians to Anabaptists—
amounted, all told and paid reg'ularly per quarter,
to as much as these little prelatical ornaments of
Archbishop Carr are valued at. But there !—it
is a repetition of the same old story. The original
discoverers of a mine rarely ever get anything out
of it. 1 ancy the effect it would have even upon
the most callous of Christian capitalists if he dis-
covered that such a postscript as the following
had been appended to, say, the Epistle to the
Galatians and subsequently suppressed :—“ And
we beg of you, dearly beloved brethren, to watch
carefully one Cleophas who hath, with story
that there was great rain in the streets, bor-
rowed from us a murex-dyed umbrella of
Tyrian fashion tasselled with gold and a
pair of perforated silver pattens .mounted
with balas rubies, and -see that he returneth the
same to the house of Simon the Cellarer, in
Smyrna, at once to avoid prosecution. N.B.—lf
the matter hath gone too far, purchase from him
the tickets and then deliver him over to the cen-
turions to be disposed of according to the laws of
Rome.” More would be mockery.
Mr. Clarke, the New South Wales Minister of
Justice, lias utterly backed down over the main
feature of tlie Mount Rennie case. A Sydney
paper says: .
Speaking to our representative this morning, the Minis-
ter of Justice said the evidence before him left no doubt
in his mind that the girl Hicks was of a previously bad
character, and that she had gone with the cabman to the
place where she made the acquaintance of the bogs with
the view of allowing him to commit an offence.
And yet all this time Svveetman, the cabman, is
serving out a sentence of 14 years’ imprisonment
for taking an innocent girl away by force with a
view to committing an offence upon her, and but
for the state of his health he would have received
two floggings as well. A study of the very evi-
dence, on the strength* of which Judge Windeyer
passed that ferocious sentence, has convinced
Minister of Justice Clarke that Sweetman is
legally innocent, yet his sentence is going on all
the same. A fter this what is a Minister of Justice
good for ?
+
Gear Bulletin, When the modern Australian
legal machine commutes a death-sentence it
generally makes a compromise between detention
and torture. There is always an idea, seemingly,
that the best mode of instilling into the mind of
the prisoner who is one day to he let loose on
society- -a respect for human life and a kind regal'd
for the human person is to make his own life nigh
unendurable, and his own person a bruised mass
of human wreckage. The other day, in Mel-
bourne, the death-sentence - passed on one
Grocock, a groom, for murderous assault and
robbery, was commuted to 15 years’ imprisonment
with two floggings, and in Adelaide, recently, a
man was sent to gaol for life, with three floggings.
Of course, it is difficult to know why, if torture is
the thing aimed at, a man shouldn’t be repeatedly
hung and cut down before he was dead, and after
he had, like game, been hung long enough and
often enough to make him good, he might be sent
home. He might, for instance, be hung every day
for a week, and dismissed with a tract on
Sunday morning, a reformed and altered
man. Under the present mode of punishment it
looks as if the authorities objected to hang a man
because it put an end to his sufferings. There is
in hanging a man by the neck until he is dead,
a finality of torture, which must be very disgust-
ing to the judicial Bashibazouk or legal Choctaw.
So a man is kept alive-reprieved from the gal-
lows—and locked up in a stone cell, and his health
looked after for the purpose of his being flogged.
He is fed like a prize porker—for the triangles—and
fattened for the lash. If the authorities really
want to get rid of criminals dangerous to the exis-
tence of the present condition of things, why do they
not make an arrangement with Baron de Lessees ?
He wants men to complete the Panama Canal and
cannot get them, for working on the Panama Canal
means tolerably certain death. Thus could the
Case-hardened criminal meet his doom in a respect-
able and human fashion, while he would die with
tlie consolation of knowing that he was in some
sort retrieving his past, and doing something
calculated to lie of real good to humanity instead
of uselessly and expensively dying on the scaffold.
There is little fear of the punishment not proving
fatal. It has been well tried. M. de Lesseps has
caused already more deaths almost than war.
Some 250,000 human beings have so far been
sacrificed to his insatiable canalic ambition, and as
things look at present, another milliofl must
follow before the Panama Canal is finished.
I hen why not send every man unfit to live in
a civilized community to work on dk Lesseps’
canal ? The Isthmus of Panama spells death,
and no one save a nigger or an acclimatised
American can exist in its fatal atmosphere.
Englishmen or Frenchmen die in a few weeks
like rats. So awful is the climate that
body-clothes, when worn a day and thrown into a
corner of the room, turn green with mould
within twenty-four hours ! Only one man of the
original party sent out still lives, and I ask if it
would not be the place of all places on earth to
which to send the irreclaimable of mankind ? Of
course, the very men to hold up their hands at
the inhumanity of this proposal would be the fero-
cious judges who are not content with chaining
up a man like a dog for a term of years, but
obviously want to flog him into a dog as well and
make of him a savage, bloodthirsty, untameable
dmgo. For Heaven’s sake let us be logical and
do one thing or the other !
Anti-Callows.
Parliamentary Privilege .
Dear Bulletin, —There has been another
“outrage ”in the N.S.W. Assembly, and the press
of Sydney has been excitedly howling for the blooc
of the offender. Before satisfying its appetite foi
the gore of political reputation', would it not be
well to consider whether physical violence is, aftei
all, the worst form of violence? I think that the
outcry raised over these little personal encounters
is not only unphilosophical, but it is a measure,
also, of the utter degradation of the public and
social life of the colony. The people wink at tin
most dastardly attacks upon personal liberty ; tin
grossest violations of honour and private faith are
daily perpetrated ; assaults by tongue and pen
upon private character are supinely allowed to
pass unchallenged ; justice is tinctured in its ad-
ministration by the social status of the offender,
and the forms of justice are set aside in the in
terests of the well-connected, or strained to their ut-
most to punish the poor and socially ostracised.
People are not governed by realities, but by
names. Everywhere is this-tbe case, but nowhere
more so than in the Legislative Assembly of
N.S.W. Insults of the most dastardly and
malicious character are permitted. The only pre-
caution a member of the N.S.W. Parliament need
take is the spreading of his calumny over a suffici-
ently wide surface. You must not directly call a
man a “ liar, ’ or a “scoundrelor a hypocritical
press holds up its hands in horror. Wrap up tin
same meaning in a sentence (which, perhaps, only
carries its real meaning to a cultured brain), in-
stead of a phrase or a word, and you can tug at
the heart-strings of your political foe, and goad
him to madness within the limit of parliamentary
privilege. The verbal “outrage” is far more
terrible in its effects than the physical “ outrage.’
And the verbal outrage, provided it is sufficiently
diffuse, is a constant weapon in the hands of tin
vermin following of Sir Henry Parkes—the same
Parkes who is so piously indignant at prize-fighting.
The most irritating p;lrt of the whole tliingis tl iat you
have no redress without descending to the same
bestial level as that occupied by your calumniator,
and sooner than do this, you would step into tin
prize-ring, or the prisoner’s dock, and yet feel youi
position more endurable than if you took up the
weapon of a poisonous tongue. In the olden days,
cowards and curs were kept within bounds by the
fear of a challenge to mortal combat. Nowadays,
the cowards and curs have no such fear. The
rules of debate and the privileges of parliament
protect them, and they stand behind this barriei
and spit their malice, their coarse vituperation,
their reptilian innuendo, and their slimy invective,
without let or hindrance, like that loathsome
creature whose name fitly describes its human
analogue. Flesh and blood break down under
the strain, and then an “ outrage ” ensues atfwhich
the apathetic public—which will tolerate anything-
in the shape of “outrage” on the spirit, but not
on the form of solidarity—holds up its
dirty hands in holy horror, and babbles
about disgrace; the disgrace which, by its own
selfish and grovelling indifference it has brought
about. It is often quoted, that those who cannot
control themselves cannot control others. This is
a good maxim for an Imperially-garotted com-
munity ;it is out of place in a democracy. Tliei e
is no merit in hypocrisy to one’s own nature, and
tyranny over the natures of others ! This platitude
is the expression of rule by diplomatic intrigue
and military terrorism. And it is, moreover, a
fact that the man who gives way to occasional
outbursts of temper is generally a warm-hearted
man with a big nature, and wide human sympa-
thies. There is hardly a man in the N.S.W.
Legislature more impulsive, and likewise more
sincere and kindly-natured, than G. R. Dibits.
Parkes can control himself- -when it suits him
But Parkes is the coldest, the most calculating,
and the most hypocritical of all who sit in the
shadow of his mane. In Japan, in the
old days, an insult was once levelled at a
Maku of rank in the Imperial Tcherina,
whereupon the insulted man whipped out his
dirk, and, advancing to the offender, with
a deft turn of his wrist, disentangled his heart
from the rest of his viscera, and, hurling it with
haughty defiance in the face of the officer to whom
the dead man owed political allegiance, he re-
peated the opprobrious words but a second before
inflicted upon himself. I admit that such a course
would be impracticable in N.S.W., simply be-
cause most of the members of the Legislature in
that unhappy colony have no hearts to rip out,
the place being usurped by a yawning vacuum or
a wooden plug. Nevertheless, if N.S.W. really
desires a reformed parliament, it must reform its
own life, and live from within outwards. There i, no
exclusive disgrace in physical violence which has
been stirred up by brutal verbal outrage, which, in
turn, is only the parliamentary expression of the
awful degradation of public life.--Yours, Once \
Member.
St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, is to be
illuminated by electricity. Pity it isn’t to be
illuminated by real Christianity.
The Tasmanian Government Geologists
say of the Scamander silver deposits : ‘‘The
characteristics of these lodes is highly character-
istic. ” Which reminds us of Punch’s conventional
dude who lucidly remarks “that, dontcherknow,
I always notice that whenever there’s a notable
change in the weathaw ’tis quite noticeable.”
A man was in the dock the other day
before Mr. Wardell, 11. M., of Wellington, N.Z.,
on a charge of failing - to provide for his wife and
family. Prisoner :“ 1 would work, your worship,
if I could get anything to do.” Peak : “ I’m afraid
you’re too lazy to even look for work - let alone
perform it when it was found.” Prisoner: “Will
you give me a job how, your worship ? " Beak :
“ I’m afraid I .shall have to give you a little job
for a time.” Prisoner: “ Very well, then, I will
take it.” Beak: “You will go to gaol for six
months with hard labour.” Prisoner : “Thanks,
your worship, very much. I was" afraid you were
going to set me to work ”


HISTORY OF BOT ANY BAY.
Macquarie- saw little difference between
the convicts and their gaolers, except that
the one class wore fetters while the other
did not. As soon as the irons were knocked
off there was nothing to choose between them.
He therefore saw no reason why the eman-
cipist should not have the same chances as
the Pure Merino, so he made no scruple
about appointing ex-convicts to the magis-
tracy, and inviting them to dine at his own
table. Evil communication with the upper
classes of the settlement had corrupted his
manners to such a degree that he thought he
might as well dine with ex-convicts as
with his gaoler, and with a better chance
of finding himself in honest company.
Wherever lie saw encouragement he emanci-
pated convicts, therefore, and those who
prospered more or less honestly received
the same recognition as those who had pros-
pered dishonestly and had not been convicts.
Tie reasoned that the settlement of Botany
Bay was a penal settlement, and he failed to
see that its gaolers had any further social
claims than other turnkeys he had heard of.
The ex-convict had some claim, for he was
on his own ground, and when his term had
expired ho was entitled while within the
colony to all the social rights and privileges
ho had forfeited on British soil by his
offences. All this was very simple. But it
did not please the Pure Merinos or fall in
with their views at all.
» *
Macquarie had not been a month in the
colony before he made his first advance to the
Emancipists. There is a story that the Gover-
nor found it necessary to say something
caustic to Colonel Foveaux —a worthy man
who barely escaped being hanged by the
neck for an atrocity committed by him at
Norfolk Island. Foveaux in revenge ad-
vised him to encourage the Emancipists,
knowing that if lie did so he would at once
incur the remorseless enmity of the Pure
Merinos. Macquarie took the advice offered
him, which was in accordance with his own
impulse, and made Andrew Thomson a
magistrate. This man’s story is a fair sample
of a large class in the colony. He was trans-
ported while a mere boy Aat the age of 16,
for setting lire to a stack of hay. This
meant that for a boy’s freak he was taken
from his home and his mother’s roof and
sent to herd for life with murderers and
cut-throats, 16,000 miles away. The original
design of the settlement offered some chance
that when his sentence expired he might at
least regain civil rights, though he could not
leave the colony. But the Pure Merinos
denied these poor wretches even that small
mercy. For one thoughtless act done by an
idle boy in a Scotch hay field near his own home
he was doomed to crawl for life on his hands
and knees under the lash of ruffians whose
crimes were a thousand times worse than his.
But Macquarie came and rescued him. He
had been a labourer in the stonemasons’gang
at Parramatta, and possibly some of the
stones in some of those dismal old buildings
that still reek with foul memories of the past,
yet bear the mark of Andrew Thompson’s
pick. AVlien his sentence was done he went
to Windsor, kept a shop, and sent boats down
to Sydney. By hard work he became rich,
and lent money tq the Hawkesbury farmers,
besides giving them credit for their supplies.
When the floods came, instead of closing on
the homeless wretches as the Macarthurs
of the settlement did, he gave them assist-
ance and time. He thus acquired great in-
fluence among them, and they learnt to trust
him in preference to the officers who op-
pressed them. This was the man whom
Macquarie made his first emancipist magis-
trate. He could not have chosen a man more
distasteful to the Pure Merinos. When
Foveaux found liis advice taken, he said, in
his elegant way, that “he had now placed a
blister on Governor Macquarie that he would
never be able to remove.”
* • *
It must have been a touching spectacle to
see Andrew Thomson take his seat at the
table of the Governor, among his former
gaolers. Pleasant reminiscences did they
doubtless discuss over the walnuts and the
wine—that is, if there were any walnuts, or
wine, or any other beverage besides rum, in
Botany Bay settlement in those days. The
officers of the 73rd Regiment also admitted
the new magistrate to their table, and the
Pure Merinos’ withers were wrung once
more. But the familiar demon they blas-
phemously nicknamed Providence, who
seemed to have deserted them lately, again
looked after them as before. Andrew Thom-
son died. He was only a magistrate a very
brief while. And the Governor set up a
tombstone over the grave of the mau who
burnt a hay-stack when he was a boy, and on
the stone he had an epitaph inscribed, which
set forth “that it was in consequence of his
character and conduct that he appointed
him to be a magistrate in the colony, and
that by that same act he restored him to
that rank in society which he had lost.” It
was all the good-natured Macquarie could do
for this rustic victim of savage British laws.
There were no post-mortem examinations at
Botany Bay in those days.
• * / *
Alarmed at these serious encroachments
on their privileges, the Pure Merinos had
recourse to their old tactics. They wrote
anonymous letters, and slandered Macquarie
xehind his back ; and then they used their
nfluence at home to get the Colonial Office
m motion to have him censured or recalled.
The same tortuous ways they followed to
disgrace Hunter and King, and to slander
Bligh, were crawled over once more to ruin
Macquarie. The result of their scheming
was that Mr. Commissioner Bigge was ap-
pointed to proceed to Botany Bay and
inquire into the condition and prospects of
he convict population, and the working of
lie transportation system generally. This
man Bigge Avas signally unfitted for the re-
sponsible duties committed to him. He
lad as much qualification for his com-
nissionership as Phillip had to bring out
the First Fleet, —a duty, as Ave have seen,
fir which his superior officer said he Avas not
it. Perhaps Bigge Avas appointed for the
same reason; certainly appointments to
Botany Bay were not much run after
n those days. He seems to have
'alien into the hands of the Pure Merinos
Tom the start, and they so hIeAV out this
pitiful bladder of a man Avith stories about
heir own virtues and the A r ices of the ex-
convicts that he nearly burst with the in-
'ormation that he absorbed. Mr. Bigge
was morally garotted by the ex-officers
he moment he set foot on shore.
He Avas exactly in the position of a distin-
guished visitor to-day Avho visits the colonies,
perhaps, to Avrite a book. He, too, falls into
She hands of a class ; and goes uAvay Avith an
impression that Australia is populated with
purblind lickspittles, avlxo give good dinners
and don’t knoAv how to serve them. This
Avas the case with Mr. Bigge. He discovered
that Botany Bay Avas peopled Avith angels—
these Avere the ex-officers of the Ncav South
Wales Corps ; and Avith fiends —Avho Avere
the ex-convicts. He reported accordingly,
and those who remember Macarthur’s
anonymous letters and the shameless slanders
about Bligh, will not require to be told Avhat
that report .said in detail. The burden of it
Avas that A’ested interests and the rights of
property must be maintained.
.
All the slanders that could be raked to-
gether against Macquarie’s administration
Avere put into that report. His very activity
in building and roadmaking Avas made a
charge against him, and his efforts to reform
the convicts by giving them some encourage-
ment to live honestly, Avere turned into an
accusation against him. The grounds on
Avliich this Avas done are too characteristic to
be omitted. It Avas said that many of these
derelict creatures, Avhen they got grants of
land or wages for labour, at once turned
them into rum. This Avas horrible. But
not so horrible as the fact that the Avhited
sepulchres Avho sold the rum to these
Avretches for their wages or their land, and
enriched themselves further by the fact,
Avere the same people Avho virtuously pointed
out this state of things to the fatuous Mr.
Bigge. Their moral indignation at the
methods they themselves employed to make
their fortunes would put the Scribes and
Pharisees to shame. But the Australian
“first families” have never been of the
kind of botanical specimen that delights to
blush unseen.
This case of Andrew Thomson is a repre-
sentative one, and it demonstrates the tactics
of the ex-officers better than anything else.
Mr. Commissioner Bigge, Avho censured
Macquarie in his report for making Thomson
a magistrate, SAvallowed all the officers told
him Avith gudgeon-like avidity. His report
set forth that Thomson was said to have been
a man of immoral life and an illicit still-
keeper. Macquarie, on his tombstone,
eulogised his character and conduct. There
is, therefore, a conflict of evidence betAveen
Macquarie and the ex-officers. When it is
remembered Avhat adepts at slander these
men had ahvays proved themselves, and Avhen
their command of every channel of calumny
from the anonymous letter doAvn to Mr. Com-
missioner Bigge is also considered, the verdict
becomes a very easy one. But the matter is
settled Avhen it is further remembered that
these British officers and gentlemen Avere
so notoriously profligate in their lives
as to keep and maintain harems
of convict Avonien, Avho, Avhen they
had served their turn, were drafted off
to retail for their oAvners that rum which
was illicitly distilled for them by their con-
vict servants when the importation of spirits
was forbidden by King and Bligh. When it
Avas necessary to hunt up some charges to
blast the reputation of an unhappy Avretch
like Thomson, these ex-officers had only to
look into their oavix lives to find abundant
colour for their fancy pictures. Yery little
indeed was left to the imagination.
ft*
One thing all the machinations of the ex-
officers failed to conceal, or to prevent from
getting into Bigge’s report. This was the
fact of the aAvful misery and unspeakable
dereliction of the convict classes in the
colony. Horrible stories and horrible inci-
dents of everyday so forced themselves on
the Commissioner’s attention that he could
not but leave some record of what he heard
and saAv. Macquarie had indeed done
something to cut out of the system some
of that bai'barism that the New
South Wales Corps had introduced.
But it is to be considered that Mac-
quarie Avas himself a man bred to a career
which at that time was anything but a
philanthropic one. His personal character
impelled him in the direction of humanity in
his rule, but his training was against it.
Moreover the long rule of the Corps had so
corrupted and demoralised both the free and
the convict population that humanitarianism -
in the ruler would almost have been out of
place. So the hanging and flogging went
merrily on ; but Mr. Bigge’s report went
home and began to open Englishmen's eyes
to the cess-pool of legalised ruffianism they
had established under their flag.
“The Conventional Lies
of Our Civilisation.”
Wk intend from time to time to publish in The
Bulletin translated extracts from Max Nordau s
great work, “ The Conventional Lies of Our Civili-
sation. ” John Stuart Mill once asked: “Whether
moral and social phenomena are really exceptions to
the general certainty and uniformity of the course of
nature; and how far the methods, by which so
many of the laws of the physical world have been
numbered among truths irrevocably acquired and
universally assented to, can be made instrumental
to the formation of a similar Ixidy of received
doctrine in moral and political science ! And it
is this question which Max Nordau, in the volume
from which we take the following, endeavours to
answer. The Imperial Council of Vienna has pro-
hibited the further sale of this book in Austria,
and has confiscated all copies of it to be found.
The official decree condemns it on account
of the “ crime of insulting the members of
the Imperial family,” the “crime of dis-
turbing the public peace by attempting to arouse
contempt or hatred for the person of the Lmperor,
&c,, the “crime of denouncing religion,” the
“ crime of inciting to hostility against religious
communities,” &c., and, in conclusion, the crime
of insulting a Church and sect recognised by the
State.” The author replied by denouncing “ every
word of these indictments ” as a “ calumny from
first to last; ” but it was no good. He is now
living in Paris and using his pen in such a manner
as to cause him to be more hated than ever by the
Austrian authorities :
THE ROTTENNESS OF EUROPE.
“ MAN never is, but always to be blest,” and per-
haps at no time was he so far removed from the
actual attainment of happiness as at present.
Culture and civilisation are spreading and conquer-
ing even the most benighted regions of the globe.
Those countries where darkness reigned but yester-
day, are to-day basking in a glorious sunshine.
Each day witnesses the birth of some new,
Wonderful invention, destined to make the
world pleasanter to live in, the adversities
of life more endurable, and to increase the
variety and intensity of the enjoyments
possible to humanity. But yet, notwith-
standing the growth and increase of all conditions
to promote comfort, the human race is to-day
more discontented, more irritated and more rest-
less than ever before. The world of civilisation is
an immense hospital-ward, the air is filled with
groans and lamentations, and every form of suffer-
ing is to be seen twisting and turning on the beds.
Go through the world, and ask each country you
come to : “ Does contentment dwell here ? Have
you peace and happiness ? ” From each you will
hear the same reply : “Pass on, we have not that
which you are seeking.” Pause and listen at the
borders, and the breeze will bring to your ears
from each one, the same confused echoes of con-
tention and tumult, of revolt and of oppression.
In Germany Socialism with myriads of tiny
teeth, is stealthily gnawing at the columns that
uphold the structures of State and society, and
nothing, not even the allurements of State and
Christian Socialism, nor the countless traps set for
it by the laws and the police, nor the state of siege
in the capital, can disturb for a single instant, the
secret, noiseless, untiring work of this insatiable
subterranean destroyer. The Anti-Semitic move-
ment was merely a convenient pretext for the
gratification of passions which do not venture to
show themselves under their true names—among
the poor and ignorant it cloaked their hatred of
property owners, among those who enjoy privileges
inherited from mediaeval times—among the aristo-
cratic classes, it disguised their jealous fear of
gifted rivals in the race for influence and power,
and the romantic idealising youth saw in it a
means of satisfying a certain extravagant and
false idea of patriotism that longs not only for the
political unity of the German Fatherland, but also
for an ethnological unity of the <Jerman people. A
secret longing that has been hinted at a thousand
times but never fully explained, drives thousands
upon thousands away from their homes to cross
the ocean. The stream of emigrants pours forth
from the German sea-ports like the life-stream
from a deadly wound in the body of a nation, jet
after jet, in constantly increasing volume, and the
Government is powerless to arrest or control it.
The political parties are waging a barbaric war of
extermination upon each other; the prizes for
which they are contending are the conditions of
the Middle Ages and an absolute monarchy on
one side, and on the other, the Nineteenth Century
and the right of popular suffrage.
In Austria we see 10 nationalities arrayed
against each other, each seeking to injure the
others by all the means at its command. In every
state, even in every village, the majority are
trampling the minority under foot. The minority
succumbs When resistance, is no longer possible,
and counterfeits a submission which conceals a
secret intensity of rage that makes them long to
compass the destruction of the Empire, as the only
possibility of relief. In Russia there is a
condition of affairs that can only bg described
as primitive barbarism. 'The Government is deaf
to every suggestion of mutual rights and advan-
tages ; the public official has no care for the in-
terests of the country and of the people that are
confided to him, but thinks only of his own,
which he shamelessly promotes by robbery or
theft, and by corruptibility and prostitution of
the laws. The cultivated classes in their despair
have grasped Nihilism as their weapon against the
present insupportable state of things, and risk
their lives again and again, with dynamite and
revolver, with the dagger and the torch of the in-
cendiary, to precipitate the country into that
bloody chaos, which, in their delirium, they im-
agine must precede the establishment of a new
system of society. The statesmen who are called
upon to devise a cure for this horrible disease
propose the most astonishing remedies. One
guarantees a cure if the Russian people be de-
clared of age and invested with the right of legis-
lative representation; another has confidence alone
in a decisive leap backwards into the slough of
Asiatic intolerance, and demands the eradication
of all European innovations, with all exten-
sion of the sacred and inherited despotism
of the Czar ; a third believes in the efficacy of a
counter-irritant, and recommends a brisk, merry
war against Germany, Austria, Turkey, or the
whole world combined, if need be. The dark
mass of the people, however, entertains itself by
plundering and killing the Jews, during these
tedious consultations of its physicians, casting
greedy glances at the castles of the nobility while -
it is destroying the taverns and synagogues of the .
Hebrews.
In England the ground appears solid and the
structure of State firm, to a superficial observer.
But if he lay his ear to the ground, and listen to
the muffled strokes of the subterranean giants as
they hammer away at the weak points in their
dungeons; and if he examine the walls closer, lie
will see that underneath the varnish and gold-
plating, dangerous cracks extend from top to
bottom. The Church and the Aristocracy of rank
and wealth are well organised and firmly allied-to
uphold each other, with a true appreciation of the
identity of their interests. The middle classes
bow submissively to the written and unwritten
laws of the dominant caste, are outwardly emi-
nently respectable, show reverence to titles, and
swear that those things only are seemly which the
upper ten thousand approve, everything else being
low and vulgar. But the labourer, the tenant,
stand outside the bonds of this conspiracy ; they
demand their share of capital atid land • they forth
clubs of free-thinkers and republicans; they shake
their fists at royalty and aristocracy, add Tib Ghb
seeks to reftd the flttUre of England, hot iil the jfcea-
groiulds, but in the eyes of the English Working-
man, will find it dark and threatening. ‘(,)f Ireland
i need ilot speak. Tile revolution against land-
lordism is in full swing there, murder rules tile
highways, and if the English Government does
not succeed ill drowning out, the inhabitants in a
sea of blood, it Will lie obliged to witness the
forcible depoSsessioh of the land-owners in favour
of the landless class, which will present all ex-
ample that would speedily be imitated in England,
and afterwards in many other countries,
In Italy ft feebly-rooted monarchy holds its own
with difficulty against the rising flood of Repub-
licanism. The Irredenta sets before the young
men of the country, a new ideal to.long and work
for, to take the place of the old ideal of Italiail
unity which has now become a reality, Tile
secret sufferings of the masses are revealed by
isolated but dangerous symptoms,. sUch as the
Camorra and Maffia in the solith, While in ThsCaii.y,
they assume the form of religious fanaticism, aiid
of the communistic principles Of primitive Chris-
tianity-.
France at tiie present moment caff congratulate
herself Updh the best condition of political health
of any European country ; but how many incipient
symptoms of disease are to be seen even there —
the germs of coming evils. On every street-corner
in the large cities, excited orators are preaching
the gospel of Communism and violence; the
masses are preparing to get possession of the ..
government and drive the ruling bourgeosie out of
the snug offices and sinecures which they have en-
joyed since 1789, and to take their places in the
legislative assemblies. The parties of the old
regime see the day of this inevitable conflict ap-
proaching, and strive to prepare for it by half-
hearted plots and counterplots, jesuitical, mon-
archical and military, but without energy, without
hope, and without combination in which alone
there is strength.
There is no need to speak of tiie smaller coun-
tries in detail. The name of Spain brings up be-
fore us a vision of Carlism and petty insurrections.
In Norway every one is absorbed in the conflict
between the present Government and representa-
tive legislation, within which lurks a future re-
public like the stone in a peach. Denmark has
its Peasant Party and chronic ministerial crisis;
Belgium its armed Ultramontanism. Alleoun-
tries, the weak as well as the strong, have their
own special ailments for which they vainly hope
to find relief, by sacrificing countless millions year
after year upon the altar of the Military, "like
those persons in mediaeval times who hoped to en-
sure their recovery from some dangerous disease
by presenting their wealth to the church.
Parkes says : “ Let us have a great Aus-
tralian Empire.” The Sydney D.T. says: “Let
us have a great Australian Empire.” Purves
says: “Let us have a great Australian Empire.”
The Bulletin says : “Let us have a great
Australian Republic. By this phrase, Young
Australia, shall you know your friends. Like the
Jewish tribe of old who fell upon and slew all
those who could not say “ shibboleth,” let us fall
upon and slay all those whose mouths are power-
less to say “Republic.” If they don't say it,
it is because they don’t really mean it.
The somewhat celebrated Hero (Star
River, Kennedy, NAj-) silver-mine will shortly
lie floated as a £150,000 limited liability concern
under the auspices of some well-known Sydney
men. Which recalls the story of the unfor
tunate prospector, Koledas, by whom this valuable
property was discovered years ago, and who was
deprived of the results of his industry and luck by
means of a mere technicality.
Dear Bulletin, —“ Superintendent Cham-
bers, second in command of the Victorian police,
stated at a recent official inquiry that some mem-
bers of the police force stick at nothing and swear
anything to prove their charge.” This intelligent
officer also forgot to mention that bobbies in-
variably wear blue when not habited in another
colour ; that they are invariably absent when not
on the spot, &c. Chambers, old boy, please give us
some news. A constable in N.S.W. once deposed
in court : ‘ ‘ Promotion comes from mention in the
Gazette, mention only from convictions which,
in many cases, can only be obtained by perjury.”
Scotty the W.
Alfred Bennett, of the Sydney L. News,
is a member of the Australian Natives’ Associa-
tion, and is most enthusiastic over the matter —
when he is in Victoria. When he’s in Sydney he
does the other thing. He has taken a leaf out of
the book of bis brother-in-law, J. Henniker
Heaton, Esq., M.P., who, in Australia (when he’s
not packing away a lunch at Potts Point or
Toorak) is a Liberal, but who, at Westminster,
votes agamst Irish Home Rule—and belongs to
the Carlton Club. The Evening News is run on
similar lines to the Sydney D.T., which generally
publishes in every issue a Republican leader and
an Imperial leader. To show its extraordinary
impartiality, and to indicate that it is only a
matter of courtesy of a commercial brand, the D.T.
publishes the Imperial leader first one day, aiid
next day, the Republican leader first. Thus the
bourgeois and local preacher advertisers are not
shocked, and the paper evinces the breadth of its
mind and its freedom from anything like a political
principle,


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal.— “ Pinafore” p. 15.
Her Majesty’s Theatre.—“ Faust ” ~
Criterion Theatre.—“ Sophia ” ~
Royal Standard Theatre.— Burlesque Company... ~
New Opera House.— Professor Kennedy ~
Alhambra Music Hall. — Minstreisey ~
We have tried hard to disguise our senti-
ments on the subject of a Bulgarian atrocity
which was offered to the public last Saturday, at
Sydney Royal Standard; and we have succeeded.
We, therefore, present the said sentiments
in a disguised condition and offer a few
smothered remarks and muffled observations about
one of the saddest incidents in a long and
chequered career. “Don Juan, Junior, is a
midnight crime divided into two sins, and it is
credited in the programme to Mr. Byron. The
first scene is a patch of open sea aggravated by
vegetables and situated amid the Isles of Grease,
with a number of elderly and middle-aged girls
making bad puns on the sand. By dint of putting
the least awful of the girls in front and the other
ones behind, the audience is induced not to hoot,
but it is a close shave. Presently, however,
the heroine comes on in the person of Eva
Clements, and eases off the rush of public
vituperation. Her father, a Greek tinker,
disguised in soot and dirt and kitchen-fat,
owes a bill printed on calico to the commonest
pirate who ever fell over a sleeping cow and went
home crying to his ma, and the pair sing hymns
at each other in the effort to collect the cash.
There is also some trouble owing to the presence
of Don Juan himself and a hunky warrior in spec-
tacles, who follows him in his desperate career
without any coat or waistcoat on, and the first, act
terminates with chaste nursery Thymes by the
washerwomen—we mean the pirates, accompanied
by sundry other human olothes-props set to slow
music. We retreated at this stage and danced on
our programme outside. “ Don Juan, Junior ”
bears some traces of having once been a little
less calculated than at present to make a -man
wish he were a shirtless heathen god, but at the
Royal Standard it is filled with funereal local
allusions, and is in the last stage of decay. Also
we would rather be plain cook to a hangman than
the author of some of the songs. One or two
redeeming features were present in the shape of
that cleyer and attractive little lady, Amy Horton ;
also Fred. Dark, and Eva Clements, all of whom
played well and deserved better fortune. /We
left, as already mentioned, filled with noble and
beautiful thoughts, and had to ask the policeman
outside if he knew who we were and where we
lived. Fortunately he did ; if he hadn’t it is hard
to say what would have become of us.
Beer is mighty, and will prevail. Thea-
trical companies of a more or less seedy character
may play “The Woman of the People” till the
world is empty and bald and blind, and a melan-
choly spread of soup-bones and butchers’-shops in
low dresses may sit in the circle and assimilate
the great moral lesson and reflect upon it, and
scatter it more or less over the earth, but all the
time the god of liquor marches steadily on. And,
years and years hence, when “The Woman of the
People” is merely a vanishing speck sliding in
tatters over the remote horizon of Time, drink
will be found imposing on the human race in the
same old delusive style. For this reason we
appeal to Mr. Dampier and the company at
Sydney Gaiety to turn the whole tiling up,
and bounce this drama out of their re-
pertoire. It is slow, meditative, and pensive at
the best of times, and the Gaiety company doesn’t
make it bound worth a copper. The temperance
characters are sad moaning individuals with large
feet, while the drunkards are gay and cheerful
except when the teetotallers come tottering round
after them, and telling them that they are making
beasts of themselves. There is nothing to liv'e for
in the whole drama except one swivel-eyed infant
which wants to get its toe in its mouth and can’t,
and the hero of the story has this little animal
suspended over his head by a hair all through the
story. He reforms at last from horror at hearing
that the sticky and cantankerous offspring has been
sent somewhere where it will get comfortable
board and lodging until it grows up, and in his
wild repentance he vows to live on cold water and
turnips until he can recover the infant and leave
it to skirmish for its dinner as before. Meanwhile
another man gets the infant out in a way which
breaks up probability and common sense. But
we have said enough about that infant. Let it
go away and grow up. The Gaiety company, so
far, have not distinguished themselves in “The
Woman of the People.” They have dragged
her up to theatrical maturity, and then thrown
her on and off the stage at intervals in a
discouraged sort of way, and they wear a hurt
expression all through. The exceptions to this
state of things are Mr. Leston, who looks cheerful
amid the prevailing wretchedness, Miss Lily Dam-
pier who plays her part well but looks miserably
tired and overworked, and Miss Annie Marsh. The
last-named lady with the swampy cognomen has
distinguished herself once or twice of late, and
unless she is crushed out of human shape by
dramas like “The Woman of the People,” should
do something good later on.
## # #
“ The political and supernatural drama,
* Faust.’ from the pen of Mr. Gilbert Parker,”
is the announcement which thunders in an awful
blast of big capitals at the head of the programme
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. We were struck in
the eye by this fact as we entered the premises
on Monday night, and when we got home we ate
the corner off a chest of drawers in our exaspera-
tion at the protracted swindle which had been
played upon us. For years and -years we have
imagined that “Faust ” was written by a German
named Goethe, and now we find that we have been
taken in, and we rise to annihilate that swindling
fraud from the Fatherland with an ocean of
curses and a mountain of loathing and scorn.
What was Goethe, anyhow, and who authorised
him to put his name to. Parker’s work, and trade
on Parker’s reputation ? Also, why didn’t Parker
go for him and knock his head off ? Furthermore,
why doesn’t Parker expose him as an old literary
delusion of the first magnitude, and show up His
meanness in dying of old age and fright when he
heard that Parker was going to be born, in order
to get out of the way of that justly-incensed
coming individual. We are trying to be calm;
we are doing our best to maintain an attitude of
judicial serenity, but we want to go out with an
axe and pound on Goethe’s tomb in far-off Ger-
many, and ask him if he knows what an unspeak-
able pirate he was when he was alive about a
hundred years ago. We have endured Goethe
long enough, and we demand that he should be
crushed by Act of Parliament, and stopped from
imposing any further on a green and unsuspecting
generation. Let him be hauled out of the sarco-
phagus and confronted with Parker, and then let
his skeleton take to the hills and he seen no more
among men, and let his tombstone be put in the
waste-paper basket. Fellows like Goethe who
trade on the stupendous intellect of gentlemen like
Parker require to be put down with a strong hand,
and Goethe is going to be put down if it takes us
all we are worth to do it.
Our feelings have carried us away to such
an extent that we have little space left for mere
criticism. What we have to say is almost undi-
luted praise. Mr. Parker’s comprehensive brain
and poetic genius have conceived a brilliant ideal,
and it is carried out almost to perfection. He is
the first man, now that Goethe is squashed, who
conceived the idea of making Satan the hero of a
drama, and Parker’s Satan, as played by Mr.
Rignold, is a grand conception splendidly ren-
dered. Parker’s Faust, too, is a fine character,
though Mr. Brian Darley’s huskiness prevented it
appearing to the fullest advantage; and Mar-
guerite, a lovely feminine figure, which must have
cost Parker a world of thought, and which is en-
trusted to Miss Kate Bishop, is nobly drawn, and
played in a way that is worthy of it in every
respect. How Mr. Parker ever came to dream of
three such grand conceptions it is difficult to
imagine. His brain must amount to tons to have
endured the strain. Nearly 20 other characters are
unavoidably held over till next week, but in pass-
ing we must remark that their .stupendous
grandeur and impassioned fervour bear the stamp
of Parker in every line. If Parker had never
lived to write “Faust” the world would have
suffered a loss which could never have been re-
paired. The scenery at Her Majesty’s is very
fine, though it might possibly have appeared to
better advantage if it had been painted by Mr.
Parker, and the theatre, which, we believe, was
built by Mr. Parker, is admirably suited for the pro-
duction of dramatic works on a scale of great mag-
nificence. There were a’few trifling hitches in the
AN AUSTRALIAN “NATIVE.”
“THE MAN WHO LAUGHS.”
arrangements on the opening nig'ht, but Mr.
Parker, we believe, has now taken charge of this
department in person, and also looks after the
lime-lights and carpentery business, and prompts
Mr. Rignold, and takes the tickets at the door, so
the continued success of the piece is fully assured.
It is rumoured that “Hamlet,” by Mr. Parker,
will be presented shortly.
** * #
And it kem. It was small.
It was dreamlike and weak.
It wore store clothes. That’s all
That we knew, so to speak,
And it called itself “Billson, Thought-reader,” which
wasn’t half a name for its cheek.
Professor Kennedy lias got through the
holidays without disaster at Sydney Opera House.
Thoughtful and affluent visitors from Melbourne,
who have come over to Sydney at this festive sea-
son of buns, have been much struck by the circum-
stance that most of his subjects appear to
be identical with the faithful followers who
formerly ate candles and lamp wicks, and
kittens and carrots at his bidding in the Victorian
capital, and one or two of them have mentioned
the fact. Other gentlemen of independent means
have also made insinuations of a low and debased
character about the genuineness of the show, but
we decline to repeat their observations. The
Professor moves on at the end of the current week
when the mesmerised subjects will enjoy a change
of air and diet.
* * #
At a time like the present, when we may
hear any day that a European monarch has been
choked by his own shirt collar while endeavouring
to help a tottering dynasty down the greasy pole
of history, when emperors are appealing to each
other not to hit them when they are down, and
dukes are liable to be found dead at any moment,
it is refreshing to note that “ Pinafore,” which re-
appeared at Sydney Royal on Saturday last, has
proved an unalloyed success. This grand
old salt-horse opera has been produced
in the same city on previous occasions under
many exciting circumstances, but its glory has
now culminated and the apex of its greatness
has been achieved. The cast is strong enough to
move a block of city property for a considerable
distance. Mr. Howard Vernon and Mr. Edwin
Kelly take the character of Sir Joseph Porter
alternately ; Mr. Woodfield represents the captain
who was mixed up in early life, and Mr. Duncan
Young reveals a hitherto undreamt-of power of
looking beautiful as Ralph Rackstraw. Miss
Leonora Braham is a particular daisy as Josephine,
and Maggie Moore’s Little Buttercup—a character
which in moments of haste is frequently described
as Gutterpup—is better than most of the perform-
ances which she has bestowed upon her admirers dur-
ing the present season. Any soul who is hungering
for the flowers of music and poesy will find them
in stacks at the Royal, and simple pathos is as
common as hash. Yearning affection also is laid
on by the 1000 cubic feet, and there is so much
noble self-sacrifice and fond affection that it is
difficult to find any place to put it. Also, the
scenery and the orchestra are up to the mark.
“Princess Ida” will follow—an opera which has
never yet been produced in Sydney, and which
ought to rouse the “ first families ” to enthusiasm.
y. ,V-
Melbouvne theatres burst forth in un-
common splendour on Faster Saturday. Bland
Holt’s revival of “ New Babylon,” after seven
long, weary years of waiting, filled the Royal with
everybody who could find a seat, and a few hun-
dreds who couldn’t. This tremendous work is put
on in a style that strikes calculating criticism
dumb. What are called moving incidents move
mighty fast when Bland Holt is shoving them
along, and the present show keeps at a gorgeous
gallop all the time. “New Babylon” starts on
the Atlantic Ocean and finishes up in Seven Dials.
It includes the sinking of a steamer, a horse sale
at Tattersall’s, a Derby, and a ball at gay Crc-
morne. This last is about the liveliest scene of sin-
ful pleasure that a fellow can hope to enjoy when
he isn’t in it himself. Mr. L. St. Lawrence, who
lias not been seen in Melbourne for a long time,
takes first-class honours at the hall and shows a
real genius for getting uproariously “tight.” He is
about the most moving incident that ever danced
on two legs. At divers times and places Messrs.
Bland Holt, G. W. Anson, J. L. Hall, B. N.
Jones, and half-a-dozen others are more or less
immense, and a galaxy of talented beauty com-
prises Miss Agnes Thomas, Mrs. Bland Holt,
Miss Ida Herberte, and a giddy little thing with
a name that suggests gambling tables. Mrs.
Walter Hill, who plays . a battered edition of
“ Lady ” Munro, is also useful without being
ornamental. “ New Babylon ”is so liberally and
cleverly put before the public that it must be a
howling success. The Opera House languished
under the blighting influence of “ Nobly Won,” so
it became necessary to hurl Grattan Riggs into the
breach once more. That healthy product of the
distressful counthry is dispensing his beneficent
smile as “ The Shaughraun,” but just at present
Irish drama is in a parlous condition. It wants
writing up to date, with Parnell, a “ boycott” and
a dynamite explosion well in the foreground. Miss
Essie Jenyns and suite are turning away solid cash
from the Bijou dress-circle and stalls, “Twelfth
Night” having caught on to the ladies like a dis-
senting minister at the annual picnic in connection
with his little chapel. The luckiest individual in
this show is the young man who represents Viola’s
twin-brother, and is required to assimilate his
beauty with Essie’s. One night a fuddled dood
may chuck a bouquet containing jewels and pre-
cious stones at the wrong twin.
Mr. Knight Aston was being borne
away from Melbourne Princess’s in a
hansom cab last Thursday night. The
horse, after the manner of its kind,
fell down, leaving Knight Aston and the cab
in imminent peril of meeting their doom at
the hands of a tram-car. Fortunately, ladies, the
car pulled up within one inch of the cab, and the
horse, pale but unconcerned, continued its
journey. The popular baritone was saved !
# * * #
The Triumvirate’s boss comic opera com-
pany has left Melbourne for a six-months’ fly-
round, and “School for Scandal” filled the bill on
Saturday night. Mr. Charles Warner’s appear-
ance and the buoyant mannerisms which distin-
guish his comedy playing’, suit Charles Surface to
a nicety. Mr. Warner is about as good as can be
in a part which advertisements state he “ played
for several hundred nights at the Vaudeville.”
The Bulletin begs to be sceptical on this point.
When “School for Scandal” had its historical
success at the Vaudeville handsome Henry Neville
was Charles Surface. Mr. H. H. Vincent runs a
powerful Sir Peter Teazle on rather unconven-
tional lines, but the rest of the crowd —barring
Mr. Marsh, as Rowley—are not so strong as they
look on paper. “London Assurance” is to be
tried next Saturday. .
# # # #
Another management is fighting an uphill
battle at the Alexandra, and deserves a good word
for its pluck. Proceedings were started on Saturday
with a drama showing how a fair sinner had
hitched herself to a dreary old man whose only
extenuating circumstance consisted in getting
stabbed through a vital part by his wife’s other
fellow. After the old nuisance was stuck he lin-
gered on until he had entered particulars of this
circumstance in his diary, but, somehow, they ran
in his hungry son for the crime. Then the hungry
son came into the property, and the other people
were either hanged or died of their own accord
“Olivia Vera” is not an exciting play,
except when blood is being shed, but if the
management will set up something else in the
same good style the Alexandra luck ought to turn.
It usually takes a month to make the Melbourne
people understand that the big house isn’t shut
up. The names of G. P. Carey, Augustus Glover,
Harry Taylor, H. N. Douglas, Miss Emma
Fischer, and the beauteous Miss Blanche Lewis
scintillate on the programme. A truly remarkable
infant, Gertie Palmer, is thrown in. (lertie can
give 50 points in a hundred to any other pheno-
menon breathing. Frank Clark’s All-Star com-
bination have turned up again at Victoria Hall,
from whence the Silk Stockings have departed on
a pilgrimage. And Coghill Bros, boom as usual
at St. George’s.
* * * *
Herr Reisbach, of Berlin, lias invented a
machine for deadening the sound of pianos. The
crying want of the age, however, is a machine
which will deaden pianists.
* * * #
Frank . Clark’s company has had a most
successful time of it at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide,
where Cellier and his “Dorothy” next produce
themselves. Miss Nellie Stewart goes with them.
A lot of other shows pull through in the saintly
city at this time, including Fred Maccabe, witq
Miss Minnia, at the Albert Hall; Tommy Hudson,
at Garner’s Theatre; and Mme, Schiller, with
Signorina Rebottaro, Signor De Alba and Mr
Armes Beaumont, at the Town Hall.
** # #
After the production of an opera upon
which they are at present engaged, it is rumoured
that Gilbert and Sullivan will dissolve partner-
ship, The cause of the friction is a lady. It is said
that most of Gilbert’s “ leading stars ” have been
proteges with whom he was connected in a Bara-
long sense. ' The feminine bone of contention be-
tween himself and Sullivan is a notable exception.
The Federal Minstrels announce that a
“farewell benefit” will be given to Mr. Hiscocks
at Sydney Academy, “under the patronage of the
Australian Natives’ Association.” It seems to be
rather early in the week to start running the
Association as an advertising move, but if that
enlightened body is for hire, the fan-tan heathen
might arrange with them to support a benefit in
Lower George-street in aid of Ah Chow. “ Sophia ”
still rolls the chariot of success along the path of
human observation at Sydney Criterion, and a,
diorama’of Scotland, 50,000 feet long, is on view at
New Masonic Hiil). George Leiteli proposes to play
“His Natural Life,” the “ Pearl Divers,” and
“Harbour Lights” at Brisbane Opera House
when “Human Nature ” dies out. Sydney play
goers are beginning to realise that, after all, there,
is nothing very wonderful in the circumstance of
“ Faust "being written by G. Parker, and not, as
it used to be, by Johann Wolfgang Goe,the’; Onida.
once wrote the biggest part of a long description
of the Melbourne Cup for the Sydney Morninc;
Herald. Lachlan M‘Gowan, formerly well-
known in Australia, has arrived in Sydney from
Auckland, and proposes returning to the stage.
In connection with the Prince of Wales’s exhibi-
tion of himself at the Opera Comique, it is noted
as somewhat remarkable that his Royal 1 Ugliness
started to raise a row just when an allusion was
made on the stage to the necessity for an improve
ment in the morals of the upper classes. Thou ho
commenced to tell turfy anecdotes which gave
away his own morals to the whole house, and
those of half the members of the Lords as well.
James M‘Mahon is doing great business with
“Held by the Enemy” at Brisbane Opera
House. That red-hot Frenchman, Rochefort,
recently sat on an actor rather heavily
in his paper, and the crushed tragedian
gently took off the. journalist’s hat in the street
and spat in it. Next day Rochefort informed his
readers that “as the aggressor was too vile to bo
challenged and too ignoble to be handed over to
the police, lie left him his hat so that the actor
could at least boast that for once in his life he had
come honestly into possession of property.” Mrs-
Digby Willoughby has definitely broken with St.
Maur. Carl Feilberg once described her as “an
interesting divorcee who acts drawing-room
comedy and breaks blood-vessels.” Sundry ancient
windbags, in whom the milk of human kindness lias
dried up, are calling each other, names in Melbourne
Herald over the question, ‘‘should Christians
attend theatres?” and one enlightened vessel
named Mrs. Trestryil declares that playgoers are
“Imps of the Devil.” Christains of her sort cer-
tainly-shouldn’t go to the theatres. They shouldn’t
go anywhere in fact. At a Christian bazaar in Mel-
bourne recently, a number of church members were
dressed up and exhibited as wax works. I t was a
mean, low sell, and realised 235. But then it. was
quite different from going to the theatre, don’t
you see.
The export of Cape diamonds* for .1887
was 3,500,030 carats, of the value of £4,251,837.
The New Zealand Government intends to
legislate in a thoroughly Protectionist fashion next
session.
Poet Tennyson is noted for his long finger-
nails,. which lie seldom cuts, much to the discom-
fort of his friends.
The Fairfaxes own several papers and
quite a number of carefully assorted opinions.
Their Echo bluntly says: “ Imperial Federation
would be but a rope of sand.” Their S. M.
Herald is careful to say nothing’ of the kind. 1 1.
warns the public against the sinister designs of
the Messageries Maritime* Co., while the Sydney
Mail, likewise a Fairfaxian organ, lauds the
French steamers to the skies.
The Shanghai Mercury has beaten all
previous sensational records
“ Charles Parnell, some time M.P. for Cork city, and
three prominent Anarchists have been executed at Kil-
mainham. A small detachment of cavalry was in readi-
ness, but their services were not required.’ ‘A Hill
abolishing' the official designation of Ireland and assimilat-
ing the laws of the United Kingdom has received royal
assent.’ ‘ Mr. W. E. Gladstone was found dead this
morning, through an overdose of morphia.’ ‘ Writs have
been issued for the arrest of Morley and two other con-
spirators.”
That editor is simply wasting his time in Shanghai.
Market-street, Sydney, fairly shrieks for a man of
such genius.
Mr. Goschen gave way to a burst of child-
like confidence the other day, in the Commons.
Speaking of the Australian Naval Defence Act,
he said
“The bargain which had been entered into was an ad-
vantageous one for all parties and was decidedly satisfac-
tory from an Imperial standpoint, as it was the formal
establishment of the principle that the colonies agreed m
assisting the general revenue.”
There is an amount of truthfulness about Goschen
which will one day result in the loss of Ids billet.
Other British statesmen have pounded away per-
sistently at a story about the great sacrifices which
England is making on behalf of Australia, and
while they are exerting themselves to drive in this
fact Goschen artlessly crows about the lunacy of
the so-called statesmen who have pledged them-
selves to pay for a navy which somebody else will
command, and the chief employment of which will
probably be to boss themselves into subjection.
Dear Bulletin, —A year ago \ gave my
opinion (in your columns) that it would be advis-
able for the (lawyer)-judge to convict or acquit,
and the jury to allot sentence or damages. The
action of a certain Sydney newspaper, in appa-
rently close relation with a certain N.S.W.
Supreme Court judge, move than ever confirms
my respect for courts-martial, provided always
that the members are gentlemen, or, more broadly,
men, and not M.L.A.’s, C.M.G.’s, or promoted
pettifoggers. The conclusion of the oath of a
C.M. (not («.), if my memory serves me rightly,
is : —“And you shall not divulge the sentence of
the court-martial until it shall be duly.approved,
neither shall you, upon any account at any time
whatsoever, disclose or discover the vote or opinion
of any particular member of the court-martial,
unless required to give evidence thereof before a
court-martial or other court of justice, in due
course of law. So help you God.” After which
we kissed the questionably correct and unques-
tionably immoral history of the Ten Tribes and
sat down in judgment. Hiram A hike.


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller. Flour. It is the greatest success of the
a are- i r.W.I
Pepper
And
Salt
A fiery epistle signed “ Ellen Trestrail” ap-
pears in Melbourne 11 khau i, in answer to. a
‘Clergyman” who said lie had patronised the
.Royal one Saturday night, and found that it was
good. The effusive Ellen states that she is “con-
strained to sound a note of alarm to those under
the pastorate of clergymen who can thus prosti-
tute the eve of the precious Sabbath by spending
it in a theatre, instead of being shut in with God
and feeding on the Word.” We have our shadowy
doubts about the genuineness of -that Herald
“clergyman,” but he’ll do to hang a moral lesson
on to, so here goes :
Select and lofty gush on the subject of the
late Emperor of (lermany. From the Tasmanian
News
His appearance at 1 o'clock in the afternoon was one
of the principal sights of Berlin. People came from the
provinces to g-ain a glimpse of the hood old man. There
was a breathless silence as the time drew near ; and when
at length the white head appeared at the window hats
flew up into the air and everyone joined in the cry : ‘ God
bless the Emperor !’ He always slept on a portable iron
field bedstead.”
Just so. “He was a noble and enlightened
patriot- and had large ears,” was all that was
needed to round off the sentence of perfection.
In discharging the men concerned in that
Melbourne fight (which ended in the sudden de-
cease of a fish-hawker) Judge Williams said there
was a vast distinction between a fair and honest
“scrap” and “oneof those brutal, disgusting exhi-
bitions —a fight for money.” Exactly! The dis-
gusting part of a prize-fight, nowadays, is that no-
body ever gets hurt.
O ! Ellen Trestrail, where’s the harm
(That fills your soul with wild alarm)
In rolling up to see a play
The night before the Sabbath Day ?
A parson can’t (you’re most absurd !)
Be always feeding on the Word—
And, now and then, a change of food
I s bound to do his liver good.
Come, Ellen, is’t a shameful thing
To hear fair Nellie Stewart sing ?
To see a nigger dancing jigs—
To spend an hour with Grattan Riggs ?
Must clergy, with averted eye,
The play-house door go slinking by
Instead of turning in ? Odds bodds !
The Royal is a house of gods.
Friend Ellen, we feel pretty sure
That all things are to parsons pure ;
They find a sermon in the whirls
And muslin skirts of ballet-girls ;
When weeping Virtue tears her hair
The parsons offer up a prayer,
And when at last the villain’s floored
They hurry home to praise the Loard.
So, if the clergy think it best
To give the precious Word a rest,
And swop an everlasting crown
For ‘ ‘ circle ” ticket, never frown ;
Pray, understand the theatre’s worth,
It offers sinners piece on earth,
And better, purer prayers they pray
Whose eyes have looked on Essie J.
SOME THEATRICAL MEMORIES.
(By AN EX-CHITTC.)
I am writing this article in a state of
misery bordering upon desperation. There is a
miscreant living next door to me whose sole occu-
pation in life, when he is not working at his trade,
which I take to be body-snatching or something of
the kind, is wrenching sorrow and bitterness out
of an accordeonr Every evening, as soon as he
has devoured his dinner, he sits down with that
malignant instrument on his knees, and stolidly
grinds away at it for hours, an expression of wooden
enjoyment on his face the while that is maddening
to see. Ino longer wonder why regiments go into
battle with bands of music in front of them. It is
not, as has been erroneously supposed, to inspirit
them or fill them with patriotic fire, but to work
them up to a pitch of murderous frenzy. I think,
too, this will explain why it is that there are so
few—if there are any—instances of Highland re-
giments retreating before the enemy. Scotchmen
naturally attribute this to their superior bravery,
but, with all respect to it, I think there is a better
reason, which is, that the skirl of the bagpipes
rouses the Highlanders to such a fury that they
charge forward blindly, and never stop at any-
thing till they have killed the pipers. If this
theory be wrong, then all I can say is that it is a
very curious thing that nearly all the pipers of a
egiment are killed off in every engagement.
* * *
This reminds me that when the Black
Watch (I believe it was the Black Watch) returned
from the Ashantee War a Southampton poet read
an ode of welcome to them in the theatre. I re-
member these lines occurred in it -
, . . . The Ashantees fled dismayed
When Scotland’s bagpipes through the forests
played. ”
No sarcasm was intended, and no sarcasm seen in
this. After all the best wit is frequently the un-
conscious sort.
* * *
Speaking of music I met a minstrel—a
- motley minstrel—in the street the other day whom
I had known in the old light-hearted times when
he was young and gay and blithe to behold, and I
had still a few illusions left. He is no longer
young, or gay, or blithe. But he is fat and sleek.
He told me that he was Treasurer and chief
secretary to a new association known as the
Society for the Reformation of Corner Men.
Seeing him reminded me of the gay old times
which, as I have previously remarked, are no
more. I could almost weep with mingled shame
and sorrow to think of how T then used to go to
minstrel shows night after night and curl up with
laughter at jokes which made the cave-man think
life was not worth living countless ages ago. I
am ashamed to think how little it took to amuse
me then, and sorry to think I think so. It is a
bad symptom—a sign that all is not well -within.
I have observed that, speaking generally, a man
never knows he has a conscience till he is on the
undertaker’s side of 30. It sometimes happens
that he doesn't know then. If there were such an
institution here as the Monthyon Prize for virtue,
as there is in France, and T were chosen as one
of the judges, the first question T would ask a
candidate would be, “Do you laugh when you go
to see the minstrels ?” If he replied in the nega-
tive I-would say, “Stand down, you cannot pos-
sibly be a good man. ”
• * •
One day there appeared in the paper for
which I was writing a notice of the minstrels
which did not err on the side of flattery. That
afternoon I was in a bar quietly sipping my little
glass of sugarwater, when four of these trenchant
troubadours came in and surrounded me. I in-
ferred from their looks that they had not come to
: present me with a gold watch and chain and a
( free pass for ever, in token of their respect for my
moral character and inflexible adherence to the
unadorned truth. With singular presence of
mind, I asked them what they would have. They
gave their orders gloomily, and drank in ominous
silence. “ Blood afterwards, but beer first, ” was
evidently their motto. I saw that I had lavished
my gold in vain, and tried to slip away with an
airy jest. But they had come there on business,
and were not to be put off in any such way.
“What did you mean by writing that article
about us ?” said one who seemed to be the First
Murderer of the crowd, taking a copy
of the paper out of his pocket and placing a large!
black finger on the article in question. In that
perilous moment 1 forgot the admirable moral
story—which I made a present of (illustrated) to
my boy the other day—of George Washington
and Ins little axe and—well, I diverged—l
meandered. “ Sir,” I replied, with an expression
of mingled sorrow and indignation, “ it grieves
me more than I can say to think that you believe
I could be capable of writing such a ruffianly re-
port—it must have been that scoundrel—(meaning
my colleague) who did it. He is capable of any-
thing.” “ Capable of anything ! ” I heard echoed
ANOTHER BOND OE KINSHIP.
A recent cable thrills us with the news that the Prince of Wales has employed an Australian Artist to
teach his daughter Water-colour painting.— Another step toward “Cementing those indissoluble ties which
bind us to the Empire,”
from the next bar, and in came my brother critic
in the midst of another posse of scowling song-and-
dance men. He had been saying precisely the
same thing of me that I had said of him. The
situation was too professionally fine not to appeal
to the instincts of our enemies and the ending of
what promised to be a first-class tragedy was a
march all round and a general breakdown.
Talking of minstrels puts me in mind of
the following story I heard from Charles Taylor,
who runs the “Stray Leaves”, company, about
Harry Lester. The latter was very ill at one
time —so ill that he had to be taken to the hospital.
His life was despaired of by his friends, and he
himself believed that he was dying. Taylor went
with him to the hospital and saw him carefully
put in bed. In the next bed there was a sick
gentleman of colour. Lester saw him and said to
Taylor in a feeble whisper : “Charley, old fellow,
will you do me one favour before I die ?” “ Any-
thing I can, old man—you know I will,” replied
Charles with tears in his eyes. “ Then,” said
Lester, pointing a wan finger at his sable neigh-
bour, “ tell me how it is that when I come in here
the first man I see looks black.at me.”
* * *
Did it ever strike you how a savage in his
war-paint must look after he has been fighting
two or three hours on a hot day ? If you have
not, then you can get a pretty good idea of
what his appearance must be if you have seen an
actor in his dressing-room after playing a heavy
part. I saw Sheridan (peace to his ashes !) come
off the stage one night after playing “ Lear.” He
was simply inhuman to look upon. Every pore of
his exposed flesh was a fountain of perspiration,
and this washing channels through the paint made
him a sight not good for weak eyes. I hazarded
a remark that it was easier work carrying bricks
in a hod than going through the performance he
had gone through. “Shakespeare,” he replied
quietly, “the divine William—when he wrote this
play he meant murder.”
The souvenirs which Sheridan prized most
were a pair of rapiers which had belonged to
Fechter. He could use them, too. It was a treat to
see him in the “ Corsican Brothers,” fighting with
Chateau Renaud. None of the old-fashioned
cross swords, thrust, parry, thrust, walk round,
thrust and parry three times, and “ Mon Dieu, 1
am slain! ” business. ft was a real duel, wanting
inily the element of malicious intent on the part
of the performers. 1 forget who was playing
Chateau Renaud then—l believe it was Herbert
Flemming—but whoever it was, he did not hold his
rapier “ like a toasting-fork.” It is said, by the
way, that Irving insists on all the members of his
_company, who play with him in such parts, learn-
ing to fence. 1 should think so. When Richmond
rushes on the stage with the red fury of battle in
Ids eye, and engages in deadly combat with
Richard 11 1. it spreads a gloom over the audience
to see the pair beating time.—one, two,'three
one, two, three —with their swords, like a couple
of schoolboys with laths, and when Richard is
slain with an outrageously easy thrust that a goat
could parry it looks too much like an arranged
thing. You naturally think the haughty inonarchs
have agreed to divide the gate-money.
'* * •
When Maccabe was here I called round to
see him. I had spent some pleasant half-hours
with him in the sunset past, and wished to see if
the years had told upon him as they had upon me.
I remember how one day he discovered in the
upper room of Hodge’s Hotel in an old leather-
covered book a song he had himself written and
composed in London long ago about the time of
the battle of Waterloo, 1 believe. JThere was a
touch of pathos in his voice as he said : “ Yes,
boys, when I wrote that 1 was dreadfully hard
up.” I believe he regretted the time.
* * •
I told the doorkeeper what I wanted and
waited in the vestibule a few minutes. Suddenly
I felt my shoulder touched, and a voice said,
“ You wish to see me, I believe.” I turned round
and looked at the speaker, and then observed in a
.tone of sarcastic solicitude, “Young gentleman,
you should not be out so late. Your mother will
be anxious about you. My business is with Mr.
Maccabe.” “That is my name,” was the reply.
“ Well, well,” I said, shaking hands with him
effusively, “and I never knew he had a son.
Young man, I knew your father.” Here my
emotion almost choked me. Before I recovered,
and could ask about his father my young friend
had vanished. I went to Mr. Pollock, the busi-
ness manager. “On your honour as a man,” I
said, “is that Fred. Maccabe’s son?” “On my
honour as a man and a theatrical manager, he is
not,” replied Mr. Pollock. “ Then who the mis-
chief is he?’’said I. “ Fi’ed. Maccabe himself,”
said Mr. Pollock, and he smiled abysmally. I
never went around to the show after that. There
was too much of the uncanny about it. In the
course of another generation or so I suppose the
same Maccabe will be back here drawing crowded
houses as The Infant Prodigy.
Cases of sickness Crates of imported
microbes.
Last week’s run of the Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) Proprietary Co.’s mine gave 65,9520 z. of
silver from 1816 tons ore.
At Sandhurst (Vic.) a young man has been
fined for having blacked his sweetheart’s eye. Yet
we thought the boxing love was legal.
There are about 50 State-paid armed con-
stabulary stationed at Opunake (N.Z.), and all the
military duty they have to do doesn’t stop them
from farming much land and doing well out of it.
Even the Chinamen can’t compete against these
nobl§ defenders of the soil, and have left the dis-
trict in disgust,
’ The following question is put to candi-
dates seeking employment in the public service of
Victoria :—“ Why cannot there be two eclipses of
the moon in one month? ” A man who wanted a
billet as warder in the Yarra Bend Asylum re
plied : “ N.B.—i want to be a warder in the
asilum, not ha pay shunt.”
Dear Bulletin, —The Great Panjandrum
does not read us, but, perhaps, one of his tide-waiters
may earn distinction by inventing a very old way
of identifying.niggers,'as exhibited in the double-
barrelled Chinee frauds who personate their
cousins and thus evade the poll-tax. Parkes and
his head rabbiter won’t answer my letters, but
he may come to hear that every man, woman,
and child carries an unalterable, non-trans-
ferable sign - manual on his thumb (or any
other chosen finger). The corrugated convolutions
of the epidermis are different in every individual and
were used as identifientory marks by such a shrewd
customer as Runjeet Singli, and 1 believe afterwards
by Nana Sal ii b. Hub a sticky inkover the part where
the vermous coils concentrate, and j wesson the paper.
Do the same in the year 1900, and the signature is
the same, unless you have been cicatrised in the
part used. Now as regards Chinese names, I see
that the Mongol, who signs the note from the
Pekin Government, is called Lew ta Jen, but
signs himself Lew. This sets me thinking,
for I like knowing the ins and outs even
of Chinkiology. 1 can find no parallel in
Australia. Is Lord Huntingtower called Mr.
Quong or Mr. Tart? Is the fat director of the
Bank of Victoria, Mr. Kong or Mr. Meng? I
know that a white shop-hand on the Meroo calls
his boss Mr. Fong. But it grieves me concerning
the poor, dear ladies. Do their dear friends talk of
Jeannie Meng or Jeannie Kong? In a divorce
case would the witness be Miss Bung or Miss Hi ?
Perhaps, again, Ta Jen is a title, just as Bob
signs Carington, but then he uses the last
word, not Robert (ain’t it Rupert?) I have
by me a document signed “George.” Vic. was so
pre-eminently pre-eminent for years that “ her
trusty and well-beloveds ” had to' be content with
“ Nunky’s ” signature to their commissions and
“Sonny’s” paw at a levee. At any rate to in-
candescence with Lew-ta-Jen and the lot of them!
May their shadow become as that of Peter
Schlemel! Yours, Scotty the Wrinkler.
The Sydney Jewish
Sabbath Schools’ Com-
mittee have decided to
give young Daniel Levy,
winner of the prize given
by Hordern Bras., a Uni-
versity education. Mas-
ter Levy is a scholastic
wonder.
One of the most sug-
gestive incidents of the
AustralianNatives’ meet-
ing in Sydney last Satur-
day night was the en
thusiastic ro a r with
which the word “ Separa-
tion” was greeted.
Dear Bulletin :
The poor, dear Sydney
Echo says there is dan-
ger “ which cannot be
ignored ” concealed in
the “ courteous diplo-
matic ” note of the Chin-
kies to the Government.
I shall tell you how 1
treated a “ courteous,
etc.” It was couched in
these terms: “Sir, I
am respektle marchir.t
and not to be tackled by
your bully dog.” This
was the result of a visit
from a persistent hawl« r
who frequented my house
in Mooltan. Next time
he came, he was tackled
by two bully dogs, one
retriever, three hybrid
pups, and a black-and-
tan terrier. Verb. sap.
—Hiram Abiee.
“ Vaurien,” in the
S.M. Herald, actually
instances London Punch,
poor thing, as a comic
1 taper. The only thing
comic about London
Punch is its pretention
to be considered a funny
journal. “ Vaurien” is
“ further of opinion that
comic papers only thrive
at the seats of Empires, ”
such as London, Paris
Berlin, Vienna, &c. This
is an error. The exclu-
sively comic journal is a
chunk of heavy weari-
ness when conmared with
even the S.M. Herald
There are only two
uniformly comic journals
on the surface of the
whole earth, and they are the Christian World
and the Church or England Messenger.
The only knees the Bulletin ever goes
down on is the Chi-nese.
At the recent Bathurst quarter-sessions a
man named Green was charged with horse-steal-
ing, and being asked by Judge Docker if he had
anything to say to the jury, artlessly replied,
“No, yer Wusshup, I ain’t much of a speaker,
but I’d be much obliged if you’d say somethin’ to
them for me.” Eventually his Honor said he
would make it three years, and Mr. Green’s belief
in the efficacy of the learned Judge’s eloquence
has dropped to about 450 degrees below zero.
Soon after Victoria had elected her first
parliament two candidates of equal popularity
were contesting a Southern agricultural constitu-
ency. The result of the contest was so uncertain
that each would have done anything to win a
doubtful vote. Both canvassed the electorate
on foot, and one morning a well-to-do Irish farmer,
while milking his cows, found himself stuck up by
one of the candidates. The politician, to show
what a really good fellow he was, volunteered his
services and finished seven or eight cow’s, after
which the farmer offered him whisky. Then the
candidate for the first time broached politics. The
farmer was asked which would make the better
representative. “ Well, you are both foine fel-
lows.” “What! have you seen anything of
Mac ? ” “ Bedad, I have —he came here
an hour before you, and he’s away now over in the
paddock beyant digging spuds and fading the
pigs. He says he will stop there a week if I vote
for him. But if you will milk me cows every
mornin’ for a week I’ll form a better opinion of
your political capacity and give my vote accord-
ingly. ” He did not remain, and lost the seat by
one vote.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The N.S.W. Master in Lunacy is erecting
a private mansion in Glades ville.
Lord Castlerosse, late of Melbourne, is
figuring as a ruthless evictor on his Irish estates.
A Tory journal’s joke on Mr. Gladstone is_
that “ he is the (k)nave that separates the (a)isles.”'
Doctor Arthur Renwick, M.L.C., N.S.W.,
was the first man to take the B. A. degree at Syd-
ney University.
A block of land lias been sold in Brisbane
(Q) by Archdeacon Jones for £35,000. Of such is
the Ringdom of Heaven.
Inspector Secretan, who, years ago, was
in charge of the Melbourne detectives, now keeps
a public-house at Prahran.
Mr. Purves, Q.C., President of the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association, was born at Mel-
bourne, New South Wales.
William John Wills, the explorer, gained
his colonial experience as a shepherd on the
Edward River, at £3O a year.
Lady Napier Broome is writing a novel,
descriptive of Western Australian life, for the
“ Leisure Hour ” Publishing Co.
The health of Mr. Howard, C.M.G.,
H.M.’s finisher'-of-the-law in N.S.W., is in such a
condition as to give great anxiety to his friends.
The new chime of bells in Melbourne City
Post-office tower will play “God save the Queen ”
at noon—-the time at which Her Gracious lunches.
Mr. Arthur Willis, the new traffic-manager
of the N.S.W. Great Northern railways, is brother
to the eminent English Queen’s Counsel of that
name.
“Vigilant,” the Melbourne Sportsman’s
turf-prophet,' weighs 25 stone. There is a legend
that he once was a Derby-weight jockey, but no
one believes it.
Mr. Beckett, a British M.P., is travelling
round through the—er—kawlinies with his wife.
The old man is now winking at scrip and sweet
little allotments up North.
Some of the elect are posting Scripture-
texts and tracts to Melbourne actresses. About
three times a week Nellie Stewart is invited to
consider, “ Are you prepared to Die?”
Captain Panter, who brought out the
“Cerberus” monitor to Victoria, and whom
Graham Berry Black-Wednesdayed, is squatting
between Cowra and Burrowa, N.S.W.
The Emperor Frederick’s coronation lias
been postponed until June. He had better hurry
up, for not only has he a malignant disease of the
throat but he is close upon 60 years of age.
Mr. Willard Verdon was selected from
among 73 applicants, as the new librarian for
Melbourne Public Library. Bless our soul ! What
a pleasant surprise for Sir George Verdon !
Residing at Berry’s Bay, Sydney, in tran-
quil retirement, is an old gold-miner who figured
prominently at the Eureka Stockade, Vic., on the
eventful morning of Sunday, December 3, 1854.
Lady Florence Dixie is coming out to see
the poor dear “colonials.” She is a lady who
vamps up travel-books for London publishers,-apd
advertises herself by bogus attempts at “ outrage.
Rev. J. E. Tenison-Woods, the well-known
Australian geologist, was a member of the Estab-
lished Church beforebe joined the Church of Rome.
We wonder how he reconciles Genesis and geology !
A correspondent asks: “Did William
Charliss Wintworth, the earthly god of Mr.
Daniel O’Connor, Im Pay, write any other poem
than that known as the prize poem on Austra-
lasia ?”
' James Hingston, the globe-trotter of the
Argus, was once introduced to a deaf old lady,
who acknowledged the Wanderer’s polite bow
with, “ Dear me, what an extraordinary name—
Inkstand!”
“Christ Church, founded by. Captain
James Wallis, of the 46th Regiment, 1817 ’’—such
is the legend to be read on the building at New-
castle (N.S.W.) where adherents of the Anglican
faith worship.
The first locomotive made in Victoria was
designed and constructed in 1857 by a youth
named Errington. The latest monument of his
skill and ability as an engineer is the Auckland
N.Z. Graving Dock.
From the Sydney War Cry t —“A Come
Event. Rejoicing with those who rejoice, we are
glad to report that Mrs. Spratt has presented
Major Spratt with a fine boy cadet. Both doing
well. Fire a volley for the Northern Division!”
Mr. Rider Haggard is writing a sequel to
“ She.” The S.M. Herald remarks that he is
“a member of a good county family. That
being so it’s quite a wonder that he writes so well.
It’s most fortunate for literature that the Haggard
blood is not very blue.
Of the six ex-Speakers of the N.S.W.
Assembly, two were English, one Irish, one Scotch,
and two Natives. Of the Victorian Chair all the
occupants prior to the present one—who is a
Native —were Irish, and all still live, while three
of the N.S.W. men are dead.
An ex-soldier (formerly in the Bth Hus-
sars), while “ on the wallaby ” in Central Queens-
land, left his swag, containing, among other
things, his bronze medal and V ictoria Cross, by
the side of a running stream the other day. W hen
he returned the swag had disappeared.
They say that one of the partners in a famous
English firm gets cruelly fleeced by the fallen angels
up South. He is a perfect boon and blessing to the
sisterhood, who relieve him of all his portable
property regularly every day, and twice on Sun-
days. However, his income will stand the strain,
and it’s all good for trade.
Editor Winter, of Melbourne Herald,
says: —“After careful consideration we cannot
express ourselves altogether satisfied with the
settlement arrived at on the New Hebrides ques
tion ” This beats the famous warning of the
Skibbereen Eagle : “ Let Lord Palmerston be-
ware—we have our eye on him. ”
Justice Williams, of Victoria, who is just
now holding a flogging orgy down South, when he
was at the bar only once appeared in the Criminal
Court. After a prisoner had been convicted of
stealing goods which he pawned, Williams was
instructed to apply that the pawnbroker should
get back the goods, and he was successful.
Howard Willoughby, of the Melbourne
Argus, intends, it is said, to launch into politics.
In the meantime, he is gently introducing him-
self to. the gracious public, and wherever Howard
orates he is religiously reported by the Argus.
Willoughby’s latest appearance is in connection
with the Jubilee present to Mr. and Mrs. Tummy.
The first four Presidents of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council were lawyers; the last two,
lawyers. No lawyer has ever filled that office in
Victoria. The first in that colony was James
Palmer, a medical , man, who gave up physic to
manufacture cordials. The second, a ruined
squatter : the third, an ex-Commissioner of Police,
and the present is a Scotch merchant.
The Dutch raised a statue to the man who
first salted fish in tubs. Burdett Smith and Dan
O’Connor, Ms.P., while they are agitating for
statues and tombstones for all hands, might as
well consider the question of raising' a monument
to one O’Brien, of Yass, who, in 1843, saved New
South Wales from blue ruin by hitting upon the
manufacture of tallow through the boiling-down
process.
Most European thrones seem well-drained
and healthy. The late German Emperor was
over 90 when he died ; the present is nearly 60 ;
the Queen of England is getting on for 70 ; the
Kings of Holland and Denmark are 70 ; the King
of Sweden is 60 ; the Emperor of Austria 58; the
King of the Belgians 53 ; the King of Italy is 44 ;
the King of Greece is still younger, 43, which is
also the age of the Czar ; the Sultan is 46.
Prince Bernadotte’s private income is
about five guineas a week, and Miss Ebba. Munck,
the young girl he has just married, is poorer than
a church mouse. Oscar’s pa tried hard for some
time to marry bis bantling to a daughter of
Tummy’s. The papers are trying to make out
Miss Munck is-very beautiful. Her pictures,
however, all represent her as a determined-looking
young person with a squa'fe and heavy jaw.
Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P. for Canter-
bury in the Commons, has been the subject of
special health-bulletins for the past few weeks in
the English dailies. Henniker‘didn’t often manage
ENGAGING A MISTRESS.
MRS.DE SMITH: “I HAVE NO CHILDREN. YOU MAY GO OUT EVERY
SUNDAY, AND FOUR NIGHT’S IN THE WEEK.”
BRIDGET : “ALL RIGHT. MUM, YOU’RE ENGAGED AS MY MISTRESS.”
to raise health-bulletins in the Australian dailies,
but we do remember hearing of the celebrated oc-
casion on which old Sir John Robertson is re-
ported to have said : “ Heaton, my dear friend,
I’ve only thanked God twice in my life and once
was when I heard you had recovered..”
Oscar Bernadette, who it is cabled, has
given up his rank for the sake of bis sweetheart,
is a direct descendant of Charles Bernadotte, the
first of the family to fill a throne. Charles was
the son of an innkeeper. He became a soldier of
the Republic, and took part in the riots of the
revolutionary period. He was a staunch champion
of La lanterne. He followed the eagles of Napoleon
to victory; became a marshal of the Empire, and
King of Sweden —and when he died and was
stripped for burial, there was found on his shoulder
the tattooed picture of a guillotine, with the legend,
“ Death to Kings !”
The Royal House of Germany is in a bad
way. The old Emperor is dead, the new Em-
peror is dying by inches, and the Crown Prince is
suffering from the development of a disease which
carried off the late King of Prussia after render-
ing him insane for the last few years of his reign.
He is the victim of a succession of abscesses which
form in his ears, and the physicians who are his
constant attendants have ever before them the
prospect that inflammation of the brain will ulti-
mately set in. His left arm is withered ; and he
goes about with pale face, bleared eyes, and masses
of coloured wool in his ears. What a monarch he
will make ?
- Boyd H. Morehead, the Queensland poli-
tician, on one occasion appeared to address a
meeting of electors, and the chairman, a prosy
individual with a head as destitute of hair as a
scalded cat, rose to offer a few introductory
remarks. He was hideously long and dismal, and
'as he slowly and sadly dug exasperating observa-
tions out of himself, the audience grew restless
and shouts of “Morehead!” rose in various
quarters. At last an Irish voter raised his voice
in a thin and bilious protest. “ Arrah ; whisht
wid yez now,” be remonstrated; “it isn’t more
head the gintleman wants. Tt’s more hair.” The
chairman sat down suddenly.,
Joseph Bragge Slack, who for a quarter
of a century appeared before nearly all the legal
tribunals' in Melbourne as his own lawyer, has
been succeeded in the role of amateur jurist by
one J, J. Main, a retired sheep-dealer. Poor old
Slack worked his way up from Petty Sessions to
Banco, worrying all the jurisdictions except the
Insolvency, which he avoided by keeping clear of
attorneys, and in the long run he even contributed
a wretch to the gallows. Banies cut Slack’s throat
and in return got a hempen cravat for his own. The,
Main law is not directed against liquor, but against
alleged illegal holders of property, governors of
gaols who don't show their authority for keeping
people in durance, proprietors of newspapers who
publish alleged libels, and so forth.
From the Hawk
“The last report in the American Press is that the
Prince of Wales often makes a flying trip to New York,
incognito, for the purpose of obtaining a little rest and re-
creation, his secret always being carefully guarded from
the time he leaves Marlborough House till he returns to it
again. On one of these little jaunts his Royal Highness
is said to have been the guest of Mr. Franklyn, formerly
connected with the Canard line of steamers, and related
to the Canard family.”
The Mr. Franklyn alluded to is, of course the
illustrious Mr. Mortimer Franklyn, formerly of
Melbourne, who, it was once alleged, was for-
merly connected with the Canards company in a
humble capacity which shall at present be name-
less. Mortimer, according to all accounts, is
slowly edging up to the Marlborough House set.
He will, no doubt, be ultimately heard of as editor
of the Queen’s Court Circular.
Here is another story of .Jimmy Tyson,
the Australian Croesus. On a station fronting
the Lachlan, two sundowners were reclining under
the shade of a gum-tree, while their thoughts
were being wafted across the paddock to the
kitchen, for they intended to “touch” the cook,
in addition to accepting the regulation allowance
of a pannikin of flour. Seeing a shabby horseman
approach, they enquired whether the station be-
longed to “Hungry Tyson?” That evening,
when the storekeeper was about to serve out the
“dust,” this same horseman appeared, and
ordered them into the kitchen. He then bade the
cook give them two square meals each, and fill
their “ tucker bags ” in the morning ; and, turn-
ing- to the “ travellers,” said, “ Long Jim Tyson
lives here, but Hungry Tyson is not known in
these parts. ”
W. M. K. Vale, the financier of the Mel*
bourne Exhibition, is going “ home ” again. Vale
is one of the few water-drinkers at the Victorian
bar. A quarter of a century ago he kept a little
stationer’s shop in Ballarat. Some ten years since
he went to London and got called to the English
Bar, and when, after three years’ absence, he re-
turned and addressed a big meeting in Ballarat
he was altered out of recognition. He talked in
his usual bombastic style about things in general,
and a Bungaree savage, who years before had been
one of Vale’s strongest supporters at Ballarat elec-
tions, and didn’t now identify his ancient guide
and philosopher, and was indignant at the sup-
posed stranger’s flippant way of talking about
local things, sang out : “ Who the blanky blank
are you ? What the blank do you know about
it ? ” When Vale was for a brief period Attorney-
General of Victoria he crept into the various
offices under his jurisdiction in all parts of the
country when least expected, and played the mis-
chief with easy-going Civil servants. When he re-
tired from office the whole service rose like one
man and exclaimed— Vale!
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
POLITICAL
Imperial federation is only an effort to
keep “ the colonies ” under Loch and key.
M‘llwraith has “ paid a passing tribute to
the ability- of Sir Henry Parkes. Bertrand
Barere was an able man.
Patrols are to be sent out along the
Queensland border to arrest any Chinkies tripping
over from Port Darwin.
Father Huggard, who forfeited his bail in
the Bourke abduction case, boasts that “he has
not viewed himself in a mirror for 20 years.”
According to the Economiste Francais,
over £400,000,000 worth of wine has been lost to
France through phylloxera—just double the war
indemnity after 1870!
Not a single member has put up for
(Griffith and British grovel in the Queensland
Central District, the “stronghold” of alleged
Queensland Liberalism.
Salisbury is “fully prepared to admit”
the fallacies of the Freetrade policy. The N.S. W.
importers’ ring and the S.M.H. and D.T.,
naturally enough, are not.
Canada is negotiating for reciprocity for
natural products with the U.S. The next thing
is to cut the painter, and let the water-logged
British tub drift its own way.
The N.S.W. Supreme Court lias decided
that a colour can’t be registered as a trade-mark,
How about yellow and green, the trade-marks of
live-sixths of the local politicians ?
On a recent journey from Gosford to Syd-
ney, out of eight passengers in one Government
railway car compartment, but one and a-half fares
were paid. The rest were dead-heads.
The Russians have run their railway to
Bokhara. The loop line to Pendjeh, a few miles
from Herat, will be complete in a year and a half,
and the struggle for India will be imminent.
Queensland ex-Speaker Groom says that
‘ the Germans are no better than Chinese.” Didn’t
they show this when, at the late elections, their
vote put him into the House and the Speaker’s
chair ?
Premier Parkes says that nothing is to be
done with regard to the erection of the proposed
N.S.W. State House without the consent of Parlia-
ment. According to this, the State House will
never be built.
There is now only one workman engaged
in the Goulburn (N.S.W.) Government railway
workshops, but as he has to obey the orders (if
four overseers it is very evident his time must be
fully occupied.
Bulcock has had a circular, advocating
gentle measures for the Chinkies, printed and sent
round to every paper in Queensland. The Holy
Bull runs a Y.M.C.A. Brisbane weakly and houses
some of the local yellow trash.
Sydney E. News describes David Brown
Walker, now in gaol, as “a most respectable look-
ing attorney.” The standing rule in the News
office is—whenever an attorney gets into trouble,
jump on him with all your boots.
Mr. T. C. O’Mara, M. L.A., says the
Orange institution is not religious, but political.
Mr. O’Mara is in error. In N.S.W. the L.O.L,
is nothing more nor less than a society established
to obtain Government billets for its members.
The extra-police tax for the county of
Kerry, which is a howling waste of some 100
square miles in the south-west corner of Ireland,
has tumbled into £32,387 for the past four years.
A coercion Government has spent this in driving-
out 4000 odd families from their houses and homes
in the interests of five or six absentee landlords.
Lord Salisbury has been waited upon by a
deputation of Irish landowners, re the falling off
in their unearned increment. The noble Premier
assured his weeping brethren that he sympathised
with them in their “deep and undeserved distress,”
and would endeavour to think of a means to
alleviate their horrible sufferings. What new Tory
robbery is in the wind ?
At Labuan, in the British Crown colony of
North Borneo, there are two English officials,
Governor Leys and Lieut. Hamelin. The latter
gentleman is a veritable Pooh Bali—he combines
in himself the offices of Colonial Secretary, Post*
master-General, Treasurer, Magistrate, Inspector
of Police, Inspector of Prisons, Chief Commis-
sioner of Works, Colonial Engineer, and Master
Attendant, and in these various capacities h
gravely writes from himself to himself m the most
stately official style.
It is cabled that John Bright, speaking at
Birmingham, on Wednesday week, said that Im-
perial Federation was a mere dream; that the
colonists would not share the cost of England’s
wars; and that he doubted if N.S. Wales and
Victoria could ever be induced to federate. If
Mr. Bright means that it wouldn’t suit the
Parkeses and Gillieses to federate, he is quite
right. Australasian federation will always be a
mere dream until the task of accomplishing it is
taken right out of the hands of the present race
of politicians—“and that,” says the Australian
Natives’Association, “is the work we are now
entering upon. ”
Another of Sam Griffith’s turncoat changes!
Before he went to England and hobnobbed with
the coercionist Marquis and Co., he spoke up
for the Irish. On his return all was changed.
Thus he enunciated at San Francisco:— “Glad
stone is in the wrong ! lam a Liberal in politics
but the Tory administration is pursuing the right
policy in trying to establish law and order in
Ireland .” And again: “The Coercion Bill in
the right remedy for the existing state of affairs 1
and I hope it will pass—in fact there is very little,
doubt but that it will." (S. F. Daily Examiner,
June 3, 1887). Let every Liberal in Queensland
remember this.
Character by Writing.—Professor. Alcott, Graphiolo
gist, will, on receipt of sample and Is. stamps, forward
full clearly defined character of the writer, answer
questions, and recommend the most suitable occupation
without extra charge.—Address, Prof. Ilron Alcott,
G.P.0., Sydney.


'//{ay ' A ?ct. yaga Tjycse* /ya r/j y?sy/er /+}
frap c "
Loudon, Saturday Night.-It i» iut«i]
that the French (Jorernmeut have advertised
lOO yonng women to proceed to Noumea,
to marry emigrants at that place. The
wow.an aro offered n (Tea passage to flew
Caledonia and a grant of 100 frame# each.
//er Af/tsssry- /*» &
S?T* j e/ L ' af/rr fry/([ts
Jo/rre s/ha 7/cu/ hfffrc «\T /6&r
Ccc6/r -y /</ (Jar*?,
/>ry Cro*t)p /~*cerrcf/£"
If*- fafrsyfi xfcrfe// f eft? 7T
S/y<. 7c£ /Ai c>. d//~ etcp r /~get- ‘/f- ■
&/y y> o4»J~ctf / *
£a STSfi 7~A*
°/f y er 7
The position of the Association doss not vat
fieem to bo quite clear!y defined • but, as far
as we understand the explanations
oatorday, there is no desire to transfer the
governmento;' the colonies to Westminster
I? 11 h 7 uld be difficult; perhaps, to de-
ans precisely what that means'; but, at anv
rate, Mr. Purvej condemned the idea as
• preposterou s.” But is it desired'that there
he a speedy cutting of/ th^pain ter,?,
perhaps not The intention /seems rather to
be to keep the operation well in view to
sharpen the knife,and to be/quite ready for '
emergencies ; and, judging from some of the
‘T-Ptay at the meeting on Saturday, the
Association may be for that reason a railyine
point for those who ' would welcome
separation.
'p*? /.s <x /VaZ/iZe
fa %/ y<^
Jii w/er "
/ /s< jfer/x??-
//? <! cc /0/<ic a ' r
C' X /-/&&/$ "
|
f /%c(//>*r-
'/>OS • a -r».
f %
\-i, Vi'
si*s
Things in General.


THE QUEEN AND AUS-
TRALLAN WINES.
OUB SPECIAL MESSAGE
__ Lomdox, Thursday Kight.—Her Majesty
y tha Queen has been recommended to drink
Australian irincs, apd she is now trying -•
them.
//c ?• A/oj Cr / ou S -
(f 7~///S 2
/fos* efc.eSc - ||
.//t? r- e p? ,
Ar f eg) -CcJf) a J Cdfff/
jie C*lont<JM"l' taT ' t/ ~
f'f'J Pc/ipc/
rr-
?o f f /S
Jo/tr?
f
\
\
(
\
Jencks s>o
Qj&rfJN " v Q jh
URt'rt
(ftOWWi Ju frptiZct (Jtj
' sj}orh ijoh cc -
f(h( no- r a~Y, TZt^J
• >< of 7fi<e cc /£ct jtf/ejrra/p
/S~/j & O/ <J/ S’/ 0 X 0 Si/'A/y
c S 3 &-y?y <? a? e y
A Serious Crisis.


We axe told that the first Pme Apples known m England
were sent as a present to Oliver Cromwell, but history
mention the kind of Dishes and Plates on which
ser ved They could not have been like those at
Br.;v Bros., 402 and 404 George-street, flor most of these
are auite modern productions. It is a pretty sight to see
those two shops opposite the Australian Joint htock
Bank lighted up at night.*
FRECKLES.
These unsightly subcutaneous
discolorations can be effectually
eradicated by the use of Clements’ 'Frecklebaxe, andby
no other preparation. Harmless, safe, and effectual.
Beware of imitations which are useless. Sent post free on
receipt of 2s. lOd. N.S.W. penny stamps or P.O.Q. by F.
M. Clements, 141 King-street, Newtown, Sydney ■, or from
the City Agents, W. 11. Soul & Co., Pitt-street, Sydney/
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A- private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff. For particulars, apply to the Lady
Superintendent..*
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED.
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prieea
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments :
UEBEL and LECHLEITEE MS,
The Wonderful VICTOR HAM
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTEY A So, AMERICAN OWL
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING & GO-, Ltd
356 GEORGE STREET, tnree Doors from G.P.O.
Society
During the tumult of the storm which
raged over Sydney on Sunday week, passed away
our old acquaintance, IVtr. Samuel Levey.
His death occurred at the Oxford Hotel,
which had been for many years his home.
Mr. Levey was quite a celebrity in Sydney,
where he had a large circle of friends and
acquaintances, and he was never more pleased
than when entertaining them with the reminis-
cences of his early life, spent principally on the
Continent. He admitted having attained the ad-
vanced age of 84, but when we come to recollect
many of his anecdotes which we have listened to
we cannot help thinking that several decades must
be added to this long-drawn span. Of the Penin-
sular war and the French occupation of Berlin he
spoke as events of yesterday, and we are not clear
in our own mind that he has not regaled us with
scenes from the French Revolution as an eye-
witness. Young in manner, courtly according to
the bearing of the ancien regime, charming in the
society of ladies, and amusing in conversation to the
last, truly his years sat easily upon him. Mr. Levey
was a bon vivant in every sense of the term, and, as
every travelled gentleman should be, a great
admirer of the gentler sex, over whom he held
sway when his friend the late Madame Vestris
was queen. In his early days he was engaged
as an emissary of one of the largest financial
agents in London, while until a few years
ago he held a position in the local Custom-
house under the Government of New South
Wales. Latterly he had led a life of well-
deserved ease, which he has now resigned for one
of eternal rest. Samuel Levey will be missed by
many, and sincerely regretted by all who had the
privilege of his friendship.
* • •
Tasmania was disturbed a good deal re-
cently by a row between a Parliamentary gentle-
man described as “hon.” and another gentleman
said to bo a captain. The daughter of the
“ hon.,” it appears, married the captain, and, not
finding him up to sample, she afterwards went
home to the villa of her progenitor. This led, of
course, to trouble between the captain and the
progenitor, and the former was ultimately given
mto custody for trespass. The report makes a
column of pathetic reading in the local paper, but
its beauty is somewhat marred by the curt an-
nouncement, at the tail of the proceedings, that
“several other small cases for pigs, cows, and
geese being at large were dealt/with.” Several
other cases.
# * *
LEAP YEAR—HIS REVENGE.
“ I’m sorry, Clara,” the young man said,
“ Yet I fear it would not do;”
And the maiden bowed her head as he gulped,
“But I’ll be a son to you.”
When Sir Alfred Stephen was Chief
Justice of N.S.W. he had a respectable
elderly man as tip-staff. Sir James Martin,
when he succeeded to the chair, continued
the same man in office, and when Sir
James made way for Sir Frederick, the
latter followed his predecessors’ lead, and
kept the trusty old fellow in his place. It
has been the custom to continue this class
of official in office with successive judges,
but Mr. Justice Foster has thrown over the
old man who was Judge Faucett’s tip-staff
and appointed a man of his own. Judge
Faucett’s man possibly did not dig with
the right foot. # #
When Farnell, of the N.S.W. Assembly,
can lift the husk of his mighty intellect from his
bill for making it criminal to be found within
three miles of your grandmother, he might bring
down his brain with a thud upon some scheme for
the protection of the miserable male citizen.
Something of the kind is badly wanted ; if Farnell
doubts this fact, let him lend a large red ear to
the following story. Somewhere in the vicinity
of Sydney stands a goat-infested suburb known as
the Glebe, and in this neighbourhood a respectable
old widower recently owned a house. For many
years it was let to an elderly and methodical
clothes-horse of regular habits, but ultimately this
structure sent in her resignation and the in-
fatuated proprietor leased the premises to a beau-
tiful grass-female whose husband was understood
to be ploughing the deep in pursuit of liis calling
as a captain. The landlord never saw him, and
he has his doubts if there ever was such a person.
The grass-widow never paid any rent; the stumpy
collector called regularly, only to be bluffed off, and
the arrears mounted up till they got almost out of
sight; and at night there were sounds of hilarious
larks in that respectable neighbourhood. These
things preyed on the landlord’s shattered mind
for three months, and at last he went down to re-
monstrate with his tenant, and see what she meant
by it He got a pleasant reception, and walked
riffht to his doom. A beautiful vision of curls and
violet eyes and pearly teeth and nice clothes
van down to welcome him; she was so glad
to see him, and it was so nioe of him to
come himself instead of sending that horrid
collector, and she would pay him the rent at once
as the captain had come home, and would he come
in and sit down and have a glass of wine, and oh !
would he look at the room upstairs where the
water came in through the roof. It was such a
shame to trouble him, but perhaps he wouldnt
mind a bit. The dazed old fossil tried to explain
that to go in and look at the place where the water
came through the roof was the one unutterable joy
for which he had been pining for ages, and with
that he lumbered ponderously upstairs and into a
little apartment, and then the lady descended on
him like an avalanche, and grabbed him by
the waistcoat and the hair, and rushed him
all over the room, and sereamed hre and
murder, and went into hysterics, and besought
him in accents that could be heard m the
next street, to spare her. There was an answer -
ng howl from below, and a valiant young male
boarder charged manfully upstairs, and knocked
the landlord into a crumpled heap of clothes and
stunned human being. The lady fainted into the
boarder’s arms, and he stood holding up his lovely
burden and hurling' -anathemas at the torn pro-
prietor. Several other cheering incidents fol-
lowed, but ultimately the lady, in a spirit of
Christian resignation, forgave the owner of the
house and forbore to hand him over to the police
in consideration of £lO cash and a receipt for the
rent, and t'lie young male hoarder witnessed the
agreement, and expressed his admiration for the
fortitude with which she endured her sufferings.
The proceedings were closed in an informal man-
ner. We present this incident to Mr. Farnell for
his consideration, and shall he glad to know what
he thinks of it.
* *
We see that the Chicago Inter-Ocean
prints, apropos of leap-year, a list of more than
500 names of eligible bachelors residing in that
city, for the perusal of ladies who may wish to
exercise their privilege. Each name is accom-
panied by a short description detailing the owner’s
matrimonial advantages !
The very latest S.M. H. advt.: —
WANTED, cheerful Christian HOUSEKEEPER or
Gen. Servant. Apply by letter, B.H. Herald
Office.
The girl who brings this under our attention
wonders whether a cheerful Jewess wouldn’t do.
An aide-de-camp item. At a country
hotel where one of the genus was staying lately
lie roused the whole house up just before dinner,
and when they answered his furious hell-pulling
he calmly said “ serve my —aw--potatoes in their
—aw-—jackets!”
Melbourne society item. A demure damsel
named Mary Solomon appeared for a maintenance
AN ILLUSTRATED ADVT.
order against her loving hubby, W. IL feolomoti.
The latter defended, and deposed that he could j
earn no money, inasmuch as his devoted wife had ,
knocked out one of his eyes, and “jabbed” the other
to blindness with a pair of scissors. Application
dismissed.
* * •
A few days ago a certain wealthy J.P.,
who has never spent five years at any university,
entered the office of a certain insurance agent,
and tossing a paper on the counter, said to the
clerk, “That’s run out, and I want to get it re-
newed.” The clerk unfolded the document, and
with a snigger enquired, “Are you sure it s run
out?” “Oh, yes,” said the J.P., “my wife told
me it had run out yesterday.” “ Well, lam sorry
for you, but we are not taking that kind of risks
now,” responded the clerk, handing hack the paper.
It was the J.P.’s marriage-certificate, and his
Worship knew no more until he was safely in his
own home with a wet cloth round his head, and
the door locked.
•* * "
There is heard in Queensland the sound
of a deadbeat blaspheming by the shores of the
solemn sea. He was a young’ Biigiishman with a
pa, and when, a few months ago, the pa went to
claim his halo, he received a long paragraph from
a London firm of solicitors stating that a legacy
of £7OOO awaited him, and if he would kindly for-
ward his receipt for same the money would arrive
by return. He sent the receipt, and last \v eek the
old man’s estate arrived in the shape of a draft for
£260. The London solicitors accompanied this
with a regretful letter, in which they wept bitter
tears over the fact that the costs had absorbed the
other £6749. They added that they did not fur-
nish a detailed bill of costs because they loathed
the idea of putting the heir to any further expense
—a candid and considerate action upon their part
which filled that young man with suppressed
gratitude. He is going home shortly to thank
them in person.
• •
A Melbourne tobacconist has been fined
£S for selling a twopenny cigar on the Day of
Rest. It’s about time that the Young Australian
left off saying he lives in a free country, or else
some supercilious new-chum will darkly hint that
the truth is not in him. If the down-trodden
Londoners couldn’t buy a smoke (or a drink dur-
ing certain hours) on Sunday, they would rise as
one slave and make a bonfire of the British Con-
stitution. The Sabbath regulations under which
these colonies groan would bring about a French
Revolution in 10 minutes, and burst up United
Germany in less than a week. But in “ free coun-
tries” religion is a boss tyrant. Our recollection of
New York is of a city where boys- who made no
noise—were prosecuted for hawking newspapers
on Sunday.
* • *
Mrs. Hugh Gibson, the lady who nursed
and tended Miss Carmichael after the Loch Ard
disaster, died the other day. Every matured
Australian remembers the wreck of the Loch Ard,
and how Miss Carmichael was saved from a
watery grave (or supposed to he) by a guileless
youth'named Tom Pearce, the only male survivor.
Rumour shed a halo of romance round that rescue
and a thumping big collection was made for
Thomas, on the unexpressed understanding that
he intended to take Miss C. to his luvin’ heart.
The lady happened to he several years older than
Thomas, who wasn’t a marrying hoy just at the
time, hut he didn’t plead “ not guilty ” to the soft
impeachment. He calmly scooped the national
tribute to hi* devoted heroism, and then departed
to Lord knows where, leaving the supposed bride-
elect with Mrs. Gibson. A model of young Mr.
Pearce (in the act of looking -for somebody who
requires rescuing) adprps Melbourne Wax Works,
and the last tjnje \ye were lured into that weird
show we saw a placid -looking stranger wink at the
dummy, and deliberately dig it in the ribs. The
stranger must have been Thomas himself.
A big bookmaker has given five guineas
thirds “Tummy’s” silver-wedding grovel, be-
cause dear Lady Clarke called on Mrs. B. with a
subscription-list, dontyersee. One touch of snob
bery makes the whole world kin 1
* *
Another yarn about Lord Deerhurst.
When that stone-broke aide-de-camp was having
his little flutter around Melbourne he bought an
£BO buggy from Stevenson and Elliott —on tick.
Deerhurst, it is alleged, converted the buggy into
cash, and now Messrs. S. and E. are appealing to
his noble pa —the Earl of Coventry— to settle their
account. But we don’t fancy that the Bari has
much more money than Beerthirst. He dropped
it on the turf 20 years ago.
* * *
We notice that the notorious English
! swell who bears the courtesy title of Lord Cour-
: tenav, has filed his noble shovel once again.
Debts £5850, and assets nil. Tradesmen have
i endured much at Courtenay s hands, foi mlBio
he paid a shilling in the pound on £lOO,OOO, and
j eight years later he parted another “bob divi-
dend on £20,000. In the palmy days of his credit
he never had any money) this scion of an ancient
race belonged to the Marquis of Hastings’ “ plung-
ing ” set, and his betting liabilities ran into tens
of thousands before the ring refused to .do any
more business with him, except for cash down.
Even when Courtenay’s name stank on the
turf, a valet would attend him to race-
meetings with a change of light kid gloves.
Lavender and lemon were the fashionable
tints in those days. On the appearance of the
valet, his noble master would change gloves, care-
lessly flinging tire scarcely--soiled pair away, while
his bookmaker creditors offered up a prayer for the
victimised purveyor of “Dent’s best.” After the
first great smash, Courtenay came down to one
pair of gloves per day, the second brought him to
one pair per week, and now he is doing without
gloves until he succeeds to the earldom of Devon.
Then this perfect gentleman will sit in the House
of Lords, and vote against any amendment of the
Bankruptcy Act. How is it that he has not yet
come to Australia as “a distinguished visitor?”
* * *
A rich Melbourne undertaker recently
gave a swell dinner to 30 of his best friends. The
company consisted of four doctors, eight chemists,
and 16 herbalists. Business prevented two tram-
drivers from accepting the invitation.
• *
Things will be pretty lively in Melbourne
when the new clock at the General Post Office
enters upon its wild career. Twelve bells are to
mark the fleeting hours by discoursing a sequence
ofJunes —whether with or without variations is
not yet settled. We would suggest no variations
just at the outset, because a plain, straightforward
melody every 60 minutes is about as much concert
as a man wants during business hours. Moreover,
elaborate variations might bring the end of one
tune so near to the beginning of the next, that life
would he all music for those who labour in the
vicinity of the Post Office. Country visitors to
Melbourne are not alone to he considered in
this matter. Even the plaudits of titled
globe-trotters will he too dearly earned if
the new clock-peal drives commerce from
its legitimate centre, and bursts up the
city property boom. And while we are addres-
sing these words of friendly warning to the
Victorian Postmaster-General, we must also tell
him that his provisional selection of tunes will
not do anyhow. This is the suggested programme :
God Save the Queen, God Bless Tummy, Rule
Britannia, Cheer Boys, Cheer, Men of Harlech,
Home, Sweet Home, The Last Rose of Summer,
The Bluebells-of Scotland, The Harp that Once,
Emperor of Austria’s Hymn, Auld Lang Syne,
St. Anne’s Tune, The Old Hundredth. Pooh !
Take this list down, if you please :
At Noon. The Marseillaise.
At 1 o’clock. A Glass of Bitter Beer.
~ 2 ~ Work Boys, Work.
~ 3 ~ Fair on the Job.
~ 4 ~ La-di-dah (Civil Servants’ Hymn).
~ 5 ~ When Johnny Conies Marching
Home.
~ 6 ~ He Always Caine Home to Tea.
~ 7 ~ Tn that Arm Chair.
~ 8 ~ On the Strict Q.T.
~ !i ~ She Danced Like a Fairy.
~ 10 ~ I'm Living with Mother Now,
~11 ~ After the Opera is Over.
~12 ~ Put Me in my Little Bed.
The Queen’s Widows’ Fund still continues
to hob up at intervals in Melbourne with a
dolorous sob and a convulsive spasm. On its last
public appearance the committee begged to observe
in an apologetic tone of voice, that they really
couldn’t commence to relieve any Widows until
they had at least £lO,OOO in hand, and they were
still considerably in the rear of that sum. Any
widows who want relief in the meantime will have
to resort to the old remedies.
• *
The scene was laid in a N.S.W. country
hotel. The hour was 1 o’clock a.m., and the per-
sons concerned were a new barmaid,' a particularly
handsome and muscular girl, who was resolved
not to endure any impudence from anybody, and
a rich politician—the drunkest and most ioose-
jointed politician who was ever struck by light-
ning on a Friday. They formed a moving array
of two on the staircase —the girl leading the way
with a candle and cheering the politician on to
make a last effort to reach his apartment, and the
statesman crawling behind her on all fours, and
every now and then falling down and flourishing
his hoofs in the air. He interspersed these pro-
ceedings with amatory remarks, too; at one
moment he would he lying head downwards on
the steps, and while she hung on to his feet to save
him from sudden death, he would beseech her to
come into the garden, Maud ; and then he would
slew round into a sitting posture, and gaze at her
with swivel pyes, and ask her if she would —hie —


p? Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
Siiat.vet, has spared no expense to make his hotel the first
n Sydney *
J. B. Pace’s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking- Tobacco is
the most delicious smoke in the world, acknowledged by-
all connoisseurs to be the most delicate in flavour. Pre-
pared so that the combustion is perfect. Burns out to the
last particle with pure white -ash. Try it.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
--that Pemell’s Snow-wiiite Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-wiiitb Roller
Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
elope with him and be his bridesh. These pro-
ceedings lasted for 15 minutes, and at last the
pretty barmaid got the customer to the head of
the stairs, but just as he struck the top step he
went down once more, and clung to her dress
to save himself. This was too much, and
the girl turned round and delilierately
kicked him off. “Mr. Thingammy,” she ex-
claimed indignantly, “ what do you take me for
Thingammy looked her all over and gave it up.
“Shudshing from the shize of y’r bustle,” he said
in contemplative accents, “I’sh — hie —I’sh takesh
’r t’be womansh, but shudshing from the kick—
hie —kick y’ gavesh me shinksh y’ mus’ be ’sh
cow.” The barmaid took up the light and left,
and Thingammy, M.L.A., passed the rest of the
night on the stairs.
* * *
He got into a ’bus intended to carry 13
inside. There were 12 already, and a stout lady
and four-and-twenty parcels and her dog occupied
four feet of one side. “Is this seat engaged?”
“Don’t you see it is?” replied the stout lady.
The man-brute immediately laid violent hands on
the four-and-twenty parcels and the French
poodle and piled them forcibly on the floor, re-
marking pleasantly, as he took up the space thus
cleared and gently squeezed the stout lady up a
little, “ Pretty comfortable kind of a sty, ain’t it ?”
Sir Charles Lilley, the Queensland Chief
Justice, says that the girls of his country are
‘neither lithe nor graceful,” and, were he not
.compelled to sit all day in judgment on Queens-
land litigants, he would open a gymnasium and
patriotically devote his life to female physical
adornment.
• * •
The young Duke of Newcastle doesn’t
waltz. He wears a cork leg.
« » «
There is in Sydney an articled solicitor’s
clerk who could not pass his final examination if
he were promised the Chief Justiceship when next
vacant. But this failure has given him little
trouble compared with what he has suffered from
the mother of a sweet girl with whom he badly
wanted to link his future. The old lady did not
fancy him possessed of sufficient brains, and so
refused him her daughter’s hand. Fate, a few
months ago, led him into a mining-exchange, and
made him invest fifty pounds in silver shares.
Recently the scrip realized £BOOO, and the old lady
now deems the lover the smartest man in the city,
and the one most eligible for her daughter’s hand.
The day is fixed.
Father (who has just given his consent) :
“I hope, young man, that you know the value of
the prize you will get in my daughter ?” Young
man (rubbing his hands) : “ Five thou’, isn’t it?”
_# •
The Melbourne cabmen had a picnic last
week, and who should run down, just to smile
upon their innocent little pleasures, but Sir Henry
Loch ! The moody cabman on his solitary box is
apt to make vulgar remarks upon the pomps and
vanities of vice-royalty.- Jehu turns in silent dis-
gust from the spectacle of the Gov.’s fat coach-
man, tooling two fat horses harnessed to a 200-
guinea barouche, while an orderly rides behind the
carriage in case Lady Loch should fall out,
or one of the fat horses should have a fit and
require a smelling-bottle. Cabmen, in fact,
lean towards Red Republican principles; there-
fore Sir Henry was advised that it would
be as well if he “ did their picnic and
made himself very affable, doncherknow. ” It
pains us to admit that the diplomatic mission was
a disgusting success. His Excellency took great
interest in a trotting race, “ chatted with the
members of the committee,” ate a morsel of
Eicnic, and finally shook hands (the Loch grasp is
istorical) with the most distinguished cabmen
present. His victory was complete. Every Jehu
on the ground swore that this was the usefullest
Governor they ever seen in their lives, and when
the Vice-Regal Salary Extension Bill is passed by
Duncan Gillies the Melbourne cabs will be illu-
minated in honour of the event. Sir Henry Loch
is now thinking about getting up a conversazione
for ’bus and tram-car men —
• •
The Brisbane Courier Lady Fashionist
passes from yellow corsets to the complexion of
the everlasting female in this way :
“ The face should be moistened witli water, and a
thimbleful of meal rubbed thoroughly into the pores. It
leaves the skin as soft as velvet, with a fine, imperceptible
and fragrant oil, which is the best wrinkle-preventive in
the world. It - eaves the face kissable and sweet, too, and
not in the least greasy. Any man who has ever detected
a suspicion of t nlet-soap about the perfume of his wife’s
cheek, I am sure would find the almond odour far more
pleasing.”
We intended launching dUt into an ocean of com-
ment on this, but, perhaps, it’s enough to say
We’ve ordered a sack of meal to be sent round
somewhere, .right away.
* •
A man reported the loss of, a wife and a
pair of boots to the Richmond (Vic.) police. He
betrayed a good deal of anxiety about the boots.
“ Lord and Lady Fitzgerald have arrived
from Calcutta at Adelaide.” And who are Lord
and Lady Fitzgerald, and what have they ever
done, anyway ?
* * *
The Marquis of Lome and the Princess
Louise are likely to succeed the Caringtons at
Sydney. So says the London W»epd. No
meaner couple exist, now that her Gracious is
alone, except Edinburgh and his Duchess.
* *
A thrilling incident transpired at a funeral
in Bungaree (Vic.), the other day. The pall-
bearers and. other officials were in the act of bear-
ing the remains of the late lamented from the
cemetery gates to the grave, and the friends and
relatives followed sadly iii the wake, allowing
their bitter tears to filter through large handker-
chiefs, when a one-horned, bony cow with a fiery
eye and an elevated tail bore down on the cortege
and butted the gentleman who bore the coffin into
a condition of rags and incapacity; then she
skipped about, frolicked along sideways, trod upon
the procession, and wore holes in it with her soli-
tary horn. After which the remainder of the
mourners sought comparative security on top of
tombstones and in other elevated positions, leaving
the dead and wounded on the field of action. The
grave-digger subsequently diverted the cow’s
attention with a spade and the funeral terminated
with a prayer.
WOREING THE SCREW.”
A most affable governor (copying Bob)
His humble vice-subjects is working.
Wherever he goes he is fair on the job—
In a chronic condition of smirking ;
For years the delight of the true uppah ten
(From the pa’s and the mi’s to the babbies),
Now he’s “kidding” all sorts and conditions of
men—
Sing hey ! for the Gov. and the cabbies.
He has ever a smile for theatrical “stars,”
A word for the saints and the sinners ;
He goes with the missus to chapel-bazaars,
And ain’t he a terror for dinners !
He prattles to infants respecting the Queen
(A topic on which quite a “dab ” he’s),
And at last, sure enough, the dear Governor’s
been
To a picnic along with the cabbies.
What is in the wind —what’s he going for now ?
What game his attention engages ?
Begorrah ! you bet, it’s that other five thou.
They mean to add on to his wages.
Then hey 1 for the nicest and ’cutest of barts.,
Whose oft-shaken hand on the grab is ;
’Ere he touches their pockets he touches their
hearts —
Hurrah ! for the Gov. and the cabbies.
To-operation and land Nationalisation.
Dear Bulletin,— -For years you have
lifted up your voice in the vast wilderness of
ignorance and prejudice against land monopoly.
Do you not think that the hour has come to advo-
cate Labourer v. Capitalist, along with its true com-
plement Labourer v. Landholder, in real earnest ?
Combination we have nearly realised in its best
sense. Now, then, for Co-operation. Believing
as I do—believing it, too, as a Christian believes in
his God—that every forward movement, every ad-
vance of science, everything, in short, that brings
Brobdingnagian Nature beneath the power of Lilli-
putian man is but a manifestation of an immu-
table law working oiit the final destiny of our
species, I, for one, distinctly' condemn those op-
timists who tell us that the Capitalist is not the
dog! on the wheel of Progress, but the lubricant
which maketh smooth and easy its revolutions.
What is the goal of
our endeavours ? Hap-
piness ! What is happi-
ness ? Who can tell ?
But one thing we know.
Where care and toil are,
vice takes the place of
happiness. The march
of scientific progress is
the battle that com-
menced not, and will not
end, that of mind over
matter. Mind is win-
ning as it has ever and
will ever win. But our
pretorian leaders have
snaffled the multitude in
the past, and yet re-
tain the mastery. The
spoils of bygone vic-
tories have been seized
bv the strong, instead of
being devoted to helping-
on the good cause.
Modern philosophers
smile grimly as they
turn from the pages
whereon are recorded the
gigantic strides of the
last century —strides that
Bacon himself would
not have dreamed of—-
to read in a news-
paper of a labourer
working 15 hours a day ;
of a child of six blasting
its fair young life; of
a lost woman clasping
with frantic eagerness
the death that was the
only alternative to the
life to which “society”
condemned her.
* • *
Do not tell me that
the people are not yet
able to receive the divine
doctrine of “ co-opera-
tion. ” I know what the
word means with me, for
it implies all that is
highest and best in human
nature; all that is good,
and pure, and beautiful,
and true; self-denial, self-
sacrifice, a love for good
men beyond all loves
that men can feel, and a
ready and overflowing
charity for the poor, the
fallen, the unfortunate.
I know the people, for I
am one of them. I have
lived, worked, and starved with them. And because
I know them, I love them. Preach, then, that
grand truth ! Tell trades-unions that their work
is not to make any terms, however advantageous,
with a class which can never justify its own
existence. Tell them that the amalgamation of
unions should have for its end the establishment
of co-operative companies, in which wages-men
should be unknown, and all receive the full benefit
of those inventions whose palpable intention is
the emancipation of the masses from grinding toil,
and the full reward of that industry which now
goes to fill the pockets of the capitalist.
I know you do not agree with those land
reformers who profess to love the capitalist and
hate the capitalist’s brother in robbery—the land-
holder. It is time the people knew once for all
that this struggle will be a futile one, if it be''not
founded on truth and morality and confidence in
our fellowmen. They must destroy the capitalist,
not by brutal struggles, but by assimilating what
constitutes his power. It will be a slow process,
involving trials, and dangers, and failures. But
it will be education in charity and self-sacrifice,
that will make future civilisation strong in its
grand morality, as it already is in its almost
divine intelligence.—Yours, &c.,
Charters Towers, Q. Enigma.
A sweet tale of baby .simplicity on the part
of an Australian bush-maiden comes from the
Sydney tea-rooms of that valued brother, Quong
Tart. A yearning girl thing from Coonamble
(N.S.W.) strolled into the establishment last
Tuesday week, and ordered a cup of tea. Being
asked by the angel of glory in charge if she would
have anything with it she glanced down the bill-
of-fare and said she was awfully fond of pastry,
and would have just one Quong Tart. That was all.
“ Mrs. Langtry has been giving her views on
dress to an Atlantic contemporary. She says
A thing that always annoys me is the hay-bag
question. It makes no difference whether the
woman who is to wear the dress is big or little, or
with a long back or a short one. When her dress
comes home there’s the same sized hay-bag sewn
in the back of it. Oh ! sometimes when 1
go by the shop-doors and see the ‘ Langtry
bustles ’ rattling in the wind, or even hanging in
the windows, I just long to put my head out of
the window and tell everybody ‘ not to believe a
word of it ! ’ The Langtry, bustle, what there is
of it, is perfectly natural so far, and J. have no in -
> tuition of changing it.
“ Of course, 1 am a tall woman and not a large
woman, and of course, too, I spend more money
on my clothes than a great many women care to,
or could—with me, I have to but it certainly
seems, just the same, as if every woman who has
any time at all for dress ought to study herself
and know herself from top to toe. I really think
I know every line of my body, and can tell in a
minute just what I can or cannot wear, and I am
sure the time it has cost me has been a cheap in-
vestment. A woman who does study herself can
dress much more cheaply, has no dresses to wear
out that she knows make her look a guy, and has
always the satisfaction of looking and feeling per-
fectly well-dressed.
“More than this, she not only studies her
figure and' complexion, lint she studies her posi-
tion and the places where she wears her different
dresses as well. If she is a society woman, she
does not Wear a carriage dress to church, but some
simple cloth gown or soft silk. If she is an actress,
she does not go on promenade in a gown that is an
advertisement of her profession, but rather in the
most inconspicuous dress of a lady. If she is a
business woman, and. particularly if she is forced
to go into the lower part of the city a great deal,
her gowns and bonnets are chosen with the one
idea of being always well dressed and tidy, with-
out drawing any one’s attention to the articles
themselves.
“BY HEAVENS, SIR!”
“ There is one way, though, that I do believe in
having things alike, and that is in underwearand
in general outline. Ido not like to see any
woman that I care for, now with a bustle on as big
as herself, and again as straight and slim as a
Puritan. I think it breaks the charm to see a
woman play tricks with her beauty in that sort of
way. More than that, I object to the bustle on
general principles. I believe in letting the ma-
terial of the gown do all the disguising that it is
necessary should be done. It is the only way that
will allow a woman to look well either sitting or
walking. The hard ‘ hay-bag ’is bound to keep
the one who'wears it either leaning back in her
carriage or chair in the most undignified attitude,
possible, or sitting bolt upright. In either case
she is going to be extremely uncomfortable herself
and make her misery known.”
“So you really wish to go on record as a strict
anti-bustleite ?”
“Ido. There are some little women who cer-
tainly look very well trussed up in tight tailor-
made suits with skirts draped on the usual swing-
ing case, but they would look exactly as well if
they Were able to lift their arms, turn their heads
without almost cutting their throats over the high
white collars, or sit in peace in a low chair. My
ideal dress is a thousand times more clear in my
mind as far as the back of it is concerned than at
the front. It is made so that the long Greek
curve of the back from the nape of the neck to the
broadest part of the hips is clearly indicated, if
not defined. From there the skirt falls to the
ground, not full enough to be clumsy, nor yet
scant enough to be round, but just full enough
and long enough to follow the wearer and not go
with her.
“The same rule applies to every dress, whether
trimmed elaborately or left very plain. For every
use, except for walking, pure and simple', it should
at least touch the floor. Otherwise that graceful
sweep that so completely eharacterises the grande
dame is lost. Another thing 1 believe in is wear
ing as few underclothes as possible, and letting all
the extra clothing be put on and off in the wraps.
American houses, American cars, and theatres as
well, are all kept fully at summer heat. Why,
then, should woman go about all day in such
heavy clothes that she is uncomfortable, against
the time when she shall happen to go out? How
they can avoid taking horrible colds I really
cannot see. Can you ?
“ I carry out my own rule by wearing pink
batiste underwear-—not very heavy material, you
know, at least not as heavy as the American red
flannel—and going from cloth to fur outdoor wear,
just as the weather requires. When I wear stays,
which is by no means always, as you know, I wear
just the same kind exactly that 1 wore when I was
a schoolgirl—all in one piece and laced up the
back, and the stocking-supporters at the side, like
a little girl’s. Ido not think the double row of
heavy steel clasps in most stays are a good thing,
and I think the simpler fashion is infinitely better.
I believe, too, in always wearing the same style,
whatever that may be, having plenty of pairs, and
having them made to order of the veiy best
material. It is an unmistakable economy to do so.
They last enough longer and keep their shape
enough better to pay, besides keeping one’s
dresses so that they always fit as they did when
new. \
“ Black silk stockings are the most appropriate
as well as economical kind for general wear. The
colour of the evening-dress, of course, dictates the
colour of stockings and slippers to be worn with
it, but a loud, fancy stocking is at any time in
very bad taste, it seems to me. The shape of
slippers and shoes is another of my fads.
The misery that some women will endure
for the sake of a slipper a grain too
narrow is beyond my comprehension. I want a
slipper or boot as short in the vamp as possible,
and full enough so that I can walk or dance or
even stand still without tottering about clumsily
or stopping now and then to hold up one foot to
rest it There has never been anything so pretty
made for a woman’s foot since I have known any-
thing of such matters as a bronze slipper and a
bronze silk stocking. To me they are the most
thoroughly ‘feminine’ things in the world.
“ When you get to the skirt, you find my one
foible, and that is not so much of a foible as it
might be. In my silk skirts, for both street and
house, there are two or three reeds run in to
hold out the dress. These skirts do not come
up the waist, but button on the lower edge
of the corset, to save the extra thickness around
the waist.. Just below the ‘pocket-hole’ comes
the first small reed, lower down another, and
usually one more. You may laugh and say ‘anti-
bustle ’ as much as you choose ; it is only to save
the extra weight of the material it would take to
produce the same effect that I use it. Heaven forbid
that anti-bustle should necessarily mean a dress
resting on one’s heels !
“ Starched white skirts, flounced up the back,
can be used with the same effect, but 1 do not like
a noisy skirt, and choose the other. The reeds
can easily be taken out, and the skirt cleaned per-
fectly.”
The Mudern Man of Ross.
“Dm you know —?” we once asked a friend
who had been a squatter in the Western district
of Victoria in the early fifties. “No,” was the
answer, “ but I knew his public-house.” It seems
to have been the fate of the subject of this sketch
to have, at every, period of his career, lost his in-
dividuality in bufildings which bore his name, but
perhaps the explanation is that the Man of Ross
had never much individuality to lose. Whether
engaged in the beneficent labour of mixing cool-
ing drinks, or as'an agent (a money agent only)
in administering draughts from the pure spring of
knowledge to-young Victoria, the man has been
nothing, and the lath and plaster all. Not inten-
tionally, however. Passers-by on the Sydney road
wonder at the huge pile of buildings which tower
over the rival Trinity and Queen’s; very fresh
freshmen mistake them for the University; but
no one who knows anything about it mistakes the
founder for an unostentatious philanthropist, or
the institution for anything but what it was
described as being by a witty ex-Chancellor of
Melbourne—“ A fine hoarding for a big adver-
tisement. ” Let us not be unjust, however. Use-
ful work is done within those walls by industrious
students and good fellows who have a ready cheer
for every man and cause with which they sympa-
thise, although the combined efforts of half the
Presbytery of Melbourne can scarcely elicit a
croak from them in honour of their founder.
At present the Man of Ross is engaged on
another and a notable scheme. Previous ex-
penditure seems not to have brought in the return
expected from it. In vain have large sums been
given to the Anglican Cathedral, and to the Pres-
byterian Jubilee Fund ; in vain has the professor-
ship of the trombone been founded, and the first
stone of the new Victoria wing laid. The heavens
continue as brass. Lo ! he turns to the Gentiles,
he seeks the precious mineral in the lowest strata,
and the Workingmen’s College, “a hall infernal,”
horrifies the indignant aesthetes of marvellous
Melbourne. A clever conception is the Working-
men’s College, and very well executed, especially
m the happy-thought of leaving it in ail
unfinished condition. Already the institution
has had an anniversary, celebrated by a dinner,
and such a dinner ! Education was represented
by Sir .James Macbain and a number of members
of the Assembly (the lecturers at College
were, with a delicate appreciation of the fitness of
things, left out), the Man of Ross in the chair, and
a learned professor there to express his hope
that the University of Melbourne would become
the great polytechnic school of the colony. Ye
gods ! If anything will stop the benevolence of
this man (and we believe something might lie
found to do it) will someone in the name of suffer-
ing humanity kindly administer the remedy ? Per-
haps Governor Loch might be able to arrange
matters with the Colonial Office.
According to a cablegram in a. Sydney
daily paper, Bismarck and others deliberately
conspired to have the present Emperor killed by
the doctors in order to prevent his accession to
the throne. The plot is said to have been un-
masked by Dr. Morell Mackenzie. This is indeed
complimentary to the German medical profession.
The present German Emperor delights to
tell the story of' a Yankee traveller in Saxony
who - was presented to the Sovereign of tha
country by the American Envoy, and received an
invitation to one of the Court balls. He arrived
there late, when the dancing was in full swing,
and putting his hands in his pockets, sauntered
around, until he reached the top of the room.
When he got there he made straight for the King
of Saxony, and held out his hand in the most
affable way, saying as he did so, “ Wal, and how
do you do, King ? Guess you don’t dance, eh ? ”


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney,
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED.
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
Oth. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
witli nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals,
tin The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods ; they can be,
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
s- r
m
3
SMf/XML
BEALE PATENT NEW FHGTI-A'iM SEWING M ACHINE
rr Special Qualities and Improvements.
IjOO.se wheel ; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust ; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle ; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened ; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-,
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
■.
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle ."H
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted.; The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. 1 hus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments. . . ,
Catalogues and Price Lists I ree by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,'
482, 484 and 486 George Street, Sydney.
The Australian Natives’ Association.
About three years ago Australia —using
Parkes’ definition of New South Wales—was pre-
cipitated into a nation. The temporary lease of
the reins of power turned a man’s weak brain,
and, like Phaeton in his day of heavenly outing in
the chariot of the Sun, he overturned the borrowed
equipage—“ precipitate ”is a good word. One
paper, and only one paper, stood up in the in-
terests of Australian Nationalism, and attacked
the Machiavellian policy of the Imperialistic
Dailey in his efforts, while in temporary posses-
sion of a post of trust, to weld Australia on to the
Empire and make her a sharer in the various
Jingo intrigues which are a disgrace and an in-
famy to the history and the policy of England.
The Bulletin proclaimed that the Soudan fiasco
had in truth precipitated Australia —not Parkes’
definition of New South Wales this time —into
a nation. More, it had blown into flame the
smouldering spark of Australian N '• n-P. -n.
The Soudan highway-foray was the p
towards a great Southern Republic. \v hen
the New South Wales Contingent left Cir-
cular Quay they carried a message to
the President of the United States of Austra-
lasia—though they were perfectly unconscious
Mercuries. The entire Sydney daily press tooted
the bugle of military Jingoism, vaunted the
prowess of British arms, and pseaned the great-
ness of the Empire. Not one paper—save The
Bulletin —stood up to denounce the monstrous
act of despotism that attempted to hand ns over
as mercenaries and bond-slaves to a policy of Im-
perial intrigue and foreign war.
. * *
The Sydney Daily Telegraph was one of
the loudest-voiced amongst the servile crew that
unreservedly flopped down on all its journalistic
fours to lick and slaver the hand of Empire. At
that time it “paid” the D.T. to grovel to the
powers that be, just as it “paid ” it to grovel at
the Jubilee period to the people who forced reso-
lutions on a meeting in which every motion was
proposed by ball-cartridge and seconded by a
bayonet. Since then the Republican party, the
Australian National party, has been growing,
growing; becoming stronger and stronger. It is now
a power in the land, and the D.T., after the manner
of all land-syndicate advertising sheets, hastens to
propitiate the rising divinity. It has not, however,
the courage to proclaim its policy. It does not, it
dare not say, “We are Republicans and our
dearest wish is the consummation of Australian
Independence.” Its policy is the policy of the
temporiser. It endeavours to realise as its ideal
the character of the trimmer as painted by Macau-
lay in his masterful portrait of Halifax. The
Sydney D.T. is the Halifax of the Australian
Press—which is a collection of Halifaxes. While
Republican in theory, the wavering statesman
believed it would be advisable to outwardly sup-
port a Monarchy. The D.T. supports both sides
at the same time. There is an advertising ques-
tion involved. It dare not proclaim, as The
Bulletin proclaims, and has always proclaimed :
“The Republic first ! Let us be a people, a nation,
a power built upon the basis of Liberty and Peace !
Independence before Protection, before Land
Nationalisation, before anything and everything
which savours of parochialism !”
* * »
With delightful irony Robert Thomson
writing in the D.T. remarks : —“The Australian
Star is so’’—National Australian —“as far as it
dares, consistent with its fear of being excom-
municated by the kid-gloved and cocked-hat sec-
tion of the Protectionists.” Writing in the
columns of the D.T. this correspondent could not
say that this latter paper was Australian Nationalist
as far as it dared, consistent with its land-syndi-
cate and auctioneering-advertising requirements.
But it is idle for the Sydney D.T., or any'other
paper, to gloze over the truth. It is absurd to
talk one thing and mean another. To whisper
liberty to your heart when no one is listening, and
phrase specious sentences which can be interpreted
two ways when the crowd stands by with ears
acock. Australia is steadily going towards her
destiny, and she will reach it—if she is not over-
whelmed by a Chinese invasion before she gets
there.
The idea of Australian independence un-
consciously shapes itself on the American model.
As well be ruled by a foreign as by a native emperor.
The Republic, the Commonwealth—not the Em-
pire—is our ideal form of government. Then why
not bravely say so? The political cowardice
evinced at the meeting of the Australian Natives’
Association is only the measure of the cowardice
of the interestedly Republican papers. If we had
an empire of our own to-morrow we should be no
better off. The Irish tenant, as a landlord over
his countrymen, is no improvement on the aristo-
cratic landlord of the past. A great deal worse,
rather ! And the people of Australia feel this,
and willingly seek their future in a government
based on the rule by the Democracy.
The Bulletin has the satisfaction of know-
ing that it was the first of Australian papers to
voice the sentiment of Australian Nationalism.
No one can accuse it of Imperialism or of Sec-
tarianism. It has never—like some of the soi-
distant liberal papers —advocated the policy of St.
Jingo, nor has it advanced excuses, like the daily
press, for the continuance of Orangeistic and
Hibernianistic manipulation in local politics. Yet,
notwithstanding, most of the writers who have
bent their energies to do all in their power—limited
though that power might be—to forward in The
Bulletin the cause of Australian Nationalism,
are, through the misfortune (?) of birth, disqualified
for membership in the only association on the face
of this continent which pretends to phrase that senti-
ment. Notthat The Bulletin would pledge its sup-
port to any society which failed to recognise in its
essential constitution some political aim, some
ideal which should influence the development of
the one movement it regards as paramount over
all questions of mere political expediency.
* * •
Though we are excluded from such an
association we criticise its aims and aspirations in
no captious or selfish spirit. We have noballot-
box to conciliate —we have no dream of entering
“public life”—we are content with the ob-
scurity of the bystander. We are willing and
anxious to gain support for the National movement
from any organisation, and the criticism of The
Bulletin is very different from the rail-sitting
criticism of the daily press, which is always in
favour of encouraging the party which has the
most money and is most willing to advertise in
its columns. And it was in this spirit of friendli-
ness that we attended the meeting of the Austra-
lian Natives’ Association the other night, for we
had heard so many conflicting accounts of its
policy. It was in turn accused of Toryism and
lauded or denounced for its Republican aspira-
tions. But at this preliminary meeting we found
small satisfaction. Everything was where it was.
There seemed little or no decision. The Associa-
tion denied any pretensions to be considered at all
political, and emphasised in a peculiar manner the
political cowardice of the Australian public. The
thing which the Association, as it is at present
constituted, seems most to want is a reason for its
existence. It yearns—and we say this more in
sorrow than in anger—it yearns after a sentiment,
but by the very peculiarity of its constitution a
seirii-aeut is just.th-i thing in the boundless uni-
verse it cannot lay its hands on.
• •
The basis of its organisation is a mistake.
It is a benefit society with ambitious claims on
social and public attention. To justify its exist-
ence as a benefit society it is compelled to disclaim
all political intentions or aspirations of a National
character save of the vaguest and most child-like
description. If it renounces or puts itself outside
politics it ceases to have any claims upon public atten-
tion. It makes a fundamental error in excluding as
members those who are not born on Australian
soil. It is guilty of a second mistake in building
itself up on a basis of Oddfellowship. To replace
its lack of an Australian National sentiment it
voices the absurd wailings of the Australian
Jingoes who look longingly across the water to
the French possessions in the New Hebrides and
New Caledonia and the German territory in New
Guinea. It panders to the Parkesian notion of an
Australian ideal in which no foreign element
should obtrude. It slights a lesson in contem-
porary history and forgets the tremendous gift of
Teuton blood Germany has made to the united
States. It flouts the Germans as it flouts the
French, and yet these great nations might be
counted upon to furnish a substantial portion of a
vigorous people, and to present many a salutary
example to the lethargic and narrow Johnbullisin
which has rivetted on Australia a hundred brutal
laws. The Association desires to conserve this
continent for the English, the Irish, and the
Scotch.
# * *
There was, too, throughout the meeting
a great deal too much ‘ ‘ God Save the Queen. ” This
phrase has, and can have, no meaning to Austral-
ian, to Republican ears. Her Gracious “ Majesty, ”
as the figure-head of a political system, is no more
to Australia than Mrs. Jones. In a social or per-
sonal sense we are not privileged to know the
Queen, therefore we cannot give cheers for her,
save as a political entity. We are, or pretend to
be, Republicans, and the acknowledgment of the
Queen is not only a sop to Imperialism, it is an
act of perjury towards our own political deity.
A “Great Colonial Empire” was once or twice
alluded to, particularly in a telegram to the chair-
man from a young man named Wise, who, we
have been informed, was once Attorney-General
of New South Wales. Now, “agreat Colonial Em-
pire ” is just the very thing we do not want, and
will—if need be—take up arms to prevent. Eng-
land is—or has been—a very fine country ; a very
great country. But the greatness of England is an
indelible lesson to any nation under the sun who
would also be great. She has many warning-
beacons to exhibit across the sea of time by which
Australia may profit considerably. Her past has
been a stormy one, and her troubles have been
wrought by her kings and by her “nobles.” And
this one lesson is so tremendous that the aspira-
tions of every true Australian should be that this
Continent must never be used as the stamping-
ground of any dynasty.
• * *
An Australian Association which would
sink the “Native ” phase of the present organisa-
tion, and which would deny membership
to those who would not solemnly promise
to help in stamping out all sectarian-cwm-
politico movements—Orangeism or Hibemianism
—while advocating the Australian Republican
sentiment, would be an extraordinary power
in the land. All Australians could then
take part in the shaping of a National develop-
ment, and the accident of birth would not count
to a man’s disadvantage. The exclusion of the
French and Germans from these seas should be no
part of Australia’s policy. The New Hebrides
and New Guinea can never be great centres of
political power, and they would be gradually
absorbed by us—if we ever wanted them —just as
Canada will be absorbed by the United States.
We are going steadily on towards five millions
strong, and nothing—except the Chinese —can
overtake us. The French and German possessions
lie in the tropics. They are ineapable of breeding
or supporting a great race. If German trading-
firms like to employ coolies in farming them what
should it concern"us? Political power always
gravitates to the great centres of population, and
the New Hebrides and New Guinea are as much
ours as if we had them on a conditional purchase.
•
Nevertheless Mr. Purves gave utterance
to sentiments of genuine Australian Nationalism
and Anti-Imperialism, and whether these senti-
ments are held by the Association or not we were
pleased to hear them, and heartily endorsed them
as our own. But turning from its President to
the Association itself we are compelled to recog-
nise the fact that it must be one thing or
the other. If it would command public atten-
tion it must in its very nature be intensely
political. It is, in fact, a political power already,
as every great combination of voters must be, and
no good can be subserved by denying its political
character. As a benefit society, it is an incon-
gruity. It is an effort to combine romance and
pork-sausages ; poetry and prase ; national senti-
ment and a weekly dole when one is sick. Aus-
tralians of the class who are born on this
continent but educated at Oxford are not
wanted. They are a source of weakness. They
are pledged m advance against the very cause
they pretend to favour. Mr. B. R. Wise is not
an Australian. He is an Oxford Englishman—a
Liberal reared on lexicons. Even Mr. Purves
himself, the President of the Association, cannot
go heart and soul as far as his sentiments might
otherwise urge him. He signs Q.C. after his
name and cannot, therefore, while holding his
present position, be regarded as altogether outside
his Imperial-official character.
The papers who write down the Associa-
tion because it has a Victorian origin, and who
turn round and apologise when it is evident
that it will probably take strong root in
New South Wales are amongst the most
insidious and deadly foes to Australian
Nationalism. We have, however, one con-
solation : The very men who now pose as Im-
perialists are not genuine. If their commercial
interests were threatened to-morrow they would
become Australian Nationalists. Indeed the
cause of Republicanism in this continent is so far
advanced that it wants only a match to explode
the mine. More urgent is it, therefore, at this
crisis for the Australian Natives’ Association to
display its hand, and declare unequivocally for
the right.
The pote Whiteman, of Melbourne, is at
present engaged in the contemplation of the Beauti-
'ul Harbour.
“ The Tory party is a party which, on the
morning of creation, would have said, * Let us
conserve chaos. ’” — W. T'. Harcourt.
“ Twenty Australian Natives, ” writing to
a Sydney print, remark :
“ It is the Sir Henry Parkeses who are endeavouring to
perpetuate old-world injustices, and the Mr. Daileys who
would drag us into European complications. The Im-
perialism of Mr. Gillies has ruined that gentleman's
chance of ever again being Premier of Victoria.”
In the neighbourhood of Bathurst (N.S. W.)
many hundreds of acres hitherto cultivated will
this year be allowed to lie waste. The farmers
are overwhelmed by arrears of rent, debts due to
storekeepers and banks, bills-of-sale held by Free-
trade politicians, and other troubles, and on top
of all these difficulties they can find no reliable
outlet for their produce, the market being
swamped by grain imported from protected Cali-
fornia. As the reverse of the picture one Sydney
firm alone, of no particular magnitude, brought
in last season 130,000 bushels of maize, which were
carried thousands of miles by sea at ballast-rates
hardly exceeding the cost of 100 miles of inland
railway transit, and landed free. Free trade
Secretary Pulsford might kindly furnish a few
more of his explanatory explanations in this
matter.
From the S.M. Herald :
1 /tHINA Boy wants Situation, general useful, good
waiter; highest refs. Apply Herbert, “ Herald”
Office.”
We ask with considerable emphasis that this
earthenware youth should endeavour to be more
explicit. Does he mean to imply that he is a
citizen built of ci-ockery, or is he an importation
from the land where the tea-plant blooms ? In
the former case how did he come to be so, and in
the latter why is it, anyhow T ? For we have never yet
seen a Mongolian child, and we have come to
disbelieve in the existence of such. We have
occasionally come across crinkled little Chows
who squalled in the arms of lady Chows, but they all
looked like their own grandfathers viewed from afar
off, and they invariably proved to be 100 years old
or more, and none of them could remember having
ever been children. Consequently this China boy
promises to be a curiosity, and it is possibly on
that account that the S.M. Herald, which pi;o-
fesses to be a feebly anti-Chinese paper, sinks its
washy principles for the sake of his grimy infected
sixpence, and allows him to advertise in its
columns for a chance to deprive a white man of a
job.
Here is a story of real life. A Melbourne
attorney who was born before his parents called
upon the parson, got married to a strong-minded
woman, forgetting to mention to her that little
incident in his birth. A certain old midwife from
Collingwood Flat, however, who had fallen out with
his parents about her allowance of gin, hugged her
terrible secret with fiendish malice till the child
had grown to man’s estate and taken to himself a
bride. She then went straight and told the bride
that her husband was merely—well, merely the
offspring of a marriage performed according
to the rites of the Baralong tribe. The
bride tore her back hair in wrath, and
when the husband came home from his toil
that evening she “went for him,” and reproached,
insulted, and wept by turns. The miserable hus-
band in vain protested that he knew nothing of his
own knowledge, and if it was true, he had no hand,
act, or part in it; but the gentle bride goaded him
on to such a pitch of madness that he caught her
by her magenta locks and swung her round till the
hair gave way, and a lock was left in his clenched
fist. This he cast carelessly upon the carpet, but
it was presently snatched up by his luvin spouse,
who, holding it aloft in dramatic fashion, swore
that, she would bury it with him! Well, years
rolled on, and the other day the attorney died,
and while his mother was having her last gaze
upon the features of her dead son, and Alfred
Sleight, the undertaker, was standing by respect-
fully waiting to close the coffin, in stalked the
afflicted widow with tragic strides, and ostenta-
tiously deposited a roll of magenta hair with the
corpse. Then she addressed her weeping mother-
in-law : “I waited till you were here to do this.
I swore, years ago, that I would do it, and I have
kept my oath !” Then she retired.
PROFESSOR KENNEDY NONPLUSSED.
As Professor Kennedy was leaving his hotel the
other evening a fine, dashing, stylish-looking lady
touched him on the arm and said, “ Professor, do
you think you could mesmerise me?” “I think
so,” replied the Professor. “ '•re you married?”
anxiously asked Kennedy. “ Yes,” softly and re-
luctantly answered the lady. “ This is my little
daughter.” Childlike, she commenced to torture
the Professor : “I was in to see you the other
evening,” said the child, and saw you change
castor oil into the St. Louis Lager Beer. Can
you do it again?” “Yes.” “Mamma has a
bottle in her basket. She bought it to give me.
Change it, Professor, into St, Louis Lager Beer
and I will remember you in my prayers. I will
take all of it —that is, if Mamma doesn’t want it.”
Mamma exchanged mesmeric smiles with Ken-
nedy. Then he left, singing in a low tone of voice,
“ The Sweet Bye and Bye.” *
Dr Alfred Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Great
Britain and by the Medical Board of N.S. Wales. Specialist
in diseases of the kidneys, bladder, skin, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases
a special study through life, and he has had the very
great practical advantages of a large private as well as
hospital practice not only in Great Britain and America,,
but the Continent of Europe. Consultations either per-
sonally or by letter. Eldon House, Phillip-street, near
King-street, Sydney.*
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. Sydney Cup,
run April 2nd, 3000 subscribers at £l. First horse, £l5OO
Second, £6OO ; Third, £3OO ; Starters, ,£3OO ; Non-starters,
£300; divided amongst them. The Australian Jockey
Club Plate, run April 7th, 3000 subs., at 10s. each. First
horse, £7OO ; Second, £2OO ; Third, £lOO : Starters, £l5O ;
Non-starters, £l5O ; divided amongst them. One hundred
cash prizes sf £2 each. Also Queen’s Birthday Cup, run
May 24th, 3000. Subscribers are requested to apply early
and enclose two stamped addressed envelopes for reply
and result, v Address, “Australia,” care of Mr. H.
Dalveen, Victoria Cafb Hotel, near General Post 0«<»* r
George-street Sydney, N.S.W.*


A musements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
£ ole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and A llison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.30; Carriages 10.45.
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST.
Me. Geo. Rignold as Mephistopheles.
Miss Kate Bishop as Marguerite.
Prices, os., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Alhambra musjc hall,
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barrington.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
MORE CHANGES! MORE CHANGES!
Attractive Programme.
“The Park Rangers” and “Blue Glass.”
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Balcony, 6d.
Theatre royal
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrovo.
Lessee. Mr, S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10,20
Grand Revival of
H.M.S, PINAFORE! H.M.S. PINAFORE
In Rehearsal —PRINCESS IDA.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's
ipOYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
PAR EXCELLENCE!
FRANK SMITH’S BURLESQUE COMPANY
IN
H. J. Bryon’s London Success,
DON JUAN, JUNIOR.
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag
niflcent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
FIELD
RECREATION GROUNDS
and
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings,
The Grounds and Skating Rink can bo booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, See.
Coming Events:
April 7—Grand Opening Run of Bicycle Clubs of
N.S.W.
April 12 —Great Skating Carnival (invitation only)
April 14—Horses v. Bicycles, Warner and Wiburd.
April 21—Newington College Sports.
April 28—Summer Hill Bicycle Sports.
May 24 —Manchester Unity of Oddfellows Fete.
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBUKD, Manager.
Amusements.
c
RITERION
THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon*
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
GRAND COMEDY SEASON.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
Sydney Endorses the Verdict of
LONDON AND MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
COMEDY
SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA
SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA SOPHIA
Mr. Joe Davis.
Business Manager
E W
OPERA
]N\
Lessee and Manager ...
Manager for Mr. Kennedy
HOUSE.
F. E. Hiscoeks.
H. P. Lyofts.
THIS and EVERY EVENiNG, at 8.
LAST NIGHTS!
Professor KENNEDY,
The World’s Greatest Mesmerist!
Professor KENNEDY,
The King Laughmaker of the World
Professor KENNEDY,
The Eighth Wonder of the World !
Prices, 45,, 35., and Is. Box plan at Nicholson’s.
Business Manager, L. T. LOHR.
B
OTANY.
BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred aNd Classical Concert OF
Well-known artists;
—Artistically ahd Numerically the Strongest !
Uhdfer thb Condubtorship of Mr; ChAs; Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
COOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM, BATHS
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
A uctions
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
MOUNT GILEAD,
Situate upon the Great Southern Line of Railwa;
four miles from Campbelltown Railway Sta
tion, and less than two miles from MenangL
Station. Divided by the Nepean River (0
which it has nearly two miles frontage) fron
the FAMOUS CAMDEN PARK ESTATE.
AREA, 2063 ACRES,
TITLE, TORRENS' ACT.
MILLS and PILE have received instruction
from Edmund B. Woodhouse, Esq., ii
consequence of his intending departure from thi
colony, to submit to auction, at their rooms, 13
Pitt-street, Sydney, on THURSDAY, 12th April
at 11.30, the above
MAGNIFICENT FREEHOLD ESTATE.
MOUNT GILEAD is distant from Sydney onl;
two hours by rail and road, being only 30 minutes
drive from Campbelltown Station by an excellen
metalled road. The property is unique in charac
ter, and the auctioneers can unhesitatingly de
scribe it as one of the most valuable and highl;
improved properties ever submitted for sale in thi
colonies. About 1600 ACRES have been cleare*
of dead wood and unsightly trees, leaving onl;
valuable living timber, giving the Estate a Park
like appearance, resembling an English Countr;
Seat.
TWO MILES FRONTAGE TO THE NEPKA?
RIVER, and ONE MILE FRONTAGE TO
GEORGE’S RIVER.
MAGNIFICENT ARTIFICIAL LAKE
WELL STOCKED WITH ENGLISH FISH.
BOATHOUSE AND BATHING-HOUSE,
Homestead of 10 rooms, extensive outbuildings
stables, granaries, billiard-room, undergrounc
tanks, &e., &c. Water laid. Gardens, Orchards
&c. Elevation above sea level about 600 ft.
CLIMATE SUPERB.
VIEWS GRAND IN THE EXTREME,
extending to the Blue Mountains.
%* It being impossible within the limits of ad
vertisenient to do justice to a property lik<
MOUNT GILEAD, a descriptive ILLUSTRATEI
PAMPHLET is in course of preparation.
The Estate will be submitted in one lot, anc
should the proprietor fail to obtain a price com
mensurate with the value of the property, it wil
then be submitted as per Plan of Subdivision in
FARMS FROM 50 ACRES to 400 ACRES EACH.
Intending buyers may inspect at any time upor
arranging with either the Proprietor or the
Auctioneers.
TERMS AT SALE.
Hotels
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, wh;
has lately had an addition of over 100 root
will find all modern improvements, such as lig
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large pub!
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, ahov
and needle baths passenger elevator, elect
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, r
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can ri
upon being called for early morning trains. Lett*
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices v«
moderate,
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and conveoieueb of
modern times for tie travelling public,
Business Announcements.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny's Baths, St. Kilda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression cf Spiritp, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths.
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS. &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
i :
Sydney, N. S. W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Marshall Broth kts,
Gentlemen, —Not feeling woll, I procured some
of Marshall’s “ Tonic Nervine,” having been ad-
vised to take it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of its grand staying and strengthening properties.
Yours very truly,
Ex-Champion Oarsman of the World-
W ANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulietin
office.
Business Announcements.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grecerp, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers,
The SYDNEY SOAP aid CaNDLE Co., Ltd,,
50 Clarence-street,
GBD. GBD, GBG.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BBIAXt FIFBS,
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BR'AIt PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The uni 1 ersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLD SOB MIDT & CO,,
231 OLARENCE-STREET.
GBD. GBD.
We have Large Shipments of thi3 BRAND OF BRIA fe,
EIPES to hand and. Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
r
HANUfAC'U*£R»
t (M»O,ATERS or
TO \
HATS CAPS&<
438 CEORCE S T
3VDNEY <
or
Amusements.
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EX II IB IT I ON.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
NOW OPEN. 1000 INTERESTING EXHIBITS.
BROCKS GRAND FIREWORKS!
Every and Friday Evenings.
CARON’S FASHIONABLE CONCERTS !
Every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons.
Hotels
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTONT OF NSW.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinner*, Evening Parties, etc , are
served on the ihortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rccherchc
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of (he sea and suriou dug country ;
here also you can have good company, good wines—:'n fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tabic
de H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilmjnster to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
T7*xctoria,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Lining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ghas. B. Sfiuiig S Co.,
proprietors,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.B.W,
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. B. B. Spring,
PROPRIETOR.
BRIEF MENTION.
Immorality—-Hymn-morality.
A man of station—-a squatter.
The Rechabite Order—raspberry and
lemonade, please.
The latest.—The Crown Prince’s throat is
as it was before it was not.
A shower of fish is reported from the
Gwydir country, N.S.W. Star-fish, we guess.
In Sydney, one Heaven has gone insol-
vent. The other place continues to pay 20s. in
the £, as usual.
The Rev. John Da we has been “ called ”
from Melbourne to Brisbane. Jack Dawe is a
good name for a parson.
A Melbourne trooper wears a Wellington
13 inches long from stem to stem. He ought to
belong to the foot-police.
A witness in a cattle-stealing case at Too-
woomba (Q.) objected to be sworn because he
never saw a book like the Bible before 1
S.M. HbKALD advt. ! —“ An experienced
sUrgedrt Would like to hear.Of ail Opening.” We
fespectfiiiiy suggest the Cariiigtoh yawii.
tlier'e is in ARighiHan circles A strong pre-
judice against the PaStedriaii rabbit renieay.
Mike Robe-—the nanie is obndxiohsly Papistical.
AtMelbburnehyoung man lias been charged
Vvith striking his nia on the head with a pound of
butter. This is the very mildest kind of son-
Stroket
Mr, BeVill is Hying to introduce the new
language, Volapuk, into Sydney. “Bat” is
Volapuk for father. It is also, we presume, Vola-
puk for Bevilh
A Sydney journalist was recently knocked
down and robbed of about £lO in notes. His
assailants are now lying in a precarious condition
dUe to frightful astonishment.
The Melbourne Juvenile Exhibition is
strongest in A class—for jtiVeniles “ OVer 2i yeats
of age,” We shall expect to hear that that hunky
kid, Dhncan Gillies, has scooped all the first
prizes-.
A Melbourne paper is ‘ ‘ gbtd to bllrdnicle
tile .fact that the local Y.M.C.A-. .shows no dinii-
hution in its numbers.” No orie is better pleased
to liote the late decrease of absconding defaulters
than ourselves.
At the hearing of a recent Tasmanian
mining case the geological expert described the
rock specimen, before the court, as “a breccia
composed of angular fragments of magnesian
limestone and feldspathicquartz impacted together
by a silicious base, strongly impregnated with
oxide of iron.” Then the other side went and
swore it was only “ puddingstone.”


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
-under 12 months.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upward*.
NOTWITHST ANDING fall in Bank Rates, (his
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years 'A With Cash Bonus if renewed
£6 „ ~ 12 months lat the rate of £1 per cent per
£5 ~ „ 6 months f annum, or withdrawable on
£4 „ „ 3 months J notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments ovor term i of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers,
Read this announcement. It largely affects your
interests.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George Street, Sydney. '
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted).
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct, from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
ARMy
/vaV
• |
ill III:
M
l:, p »
•I 1
I v mij
i'iiiii
illfi'S
tm
ft i
m
| Ml "
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING,
- Is still the most popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRaIG AND AITKEN.
r'INE AROMATIC VULCaN RUBY, 11s., 11s.,
p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOBiCCQS.
VULCAN MIXTURE ( An erican), finely flavored,
best value in the market, fib. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in fib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavoured.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality.
CRAIG and A I T K E N.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash promptly attended to.
Pay Particular attention to the Address :
CRAIG and AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
680 and 682 George-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY Tobacco
and Cigarettes. Price List on application.
Merited Pjaise
The universal praise bestowed upon t>R. bell’s,
bitters as an invaluable remedy for all disorders
of the kidneys, liver and bowels, is well merited.
Its \4irtues are universally known, and its cures
are reported on all sides. Many obstinate cases
have succumbed to it after they had been given
up by the doctors, and a thorough treatment will
never fail to cure. Sold by all druggists.
If tiie Sufferers from Consumption, Scrofula, and
General Debility, will try Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod
Liver Oil with Hypophosphites, they will find immediate
relief and a permanent benefit. The Medical Profession
in the various countries of the world, universally declare
it a remedy of the greatest value ; and as it is very
palatable, it can be readily taken by the most sensitive
stomach, and will never fail to give relief and comfort to
the sufferer. Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.“
You cannot do better, if you feel dull and languid, and
out of sorts generally, than to try Dunstone's Compound
Essence of‘Dandelion. A few doses will brace up the
nerves, clear the brain, and make you feel fit and well. A
perfect blood purifier "and strengthener of the whole sys-
tem. Bead testimonials wrapped with each bottle as to
the marvellous efficacy of this preparation. A sure cure
for all Liver and Kidney Disorders, as well as Gout, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, and all Nervous Diseases. Sold by all
Druggists at ss. per bottle. Wholesale agents: Elliott
Bros., Ltd., Sydney.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair,—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan., cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
NOT A BEVERAGE.
“ They are not a beverage, but a medicine with curative
properties of the highest degree, containing no poor
whisky or poisonous drugs. They do not tear down an
already debilitated system, hut build it up. One bottle
contains more hops, that is, more real hop strength, than
a barrel of ordinary beer. Every druggist in Rochester
sells them, and the physicians prescribe them.” “ Evening
Express on Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.”
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
The main cause of nervousness is indigestion, and that
is caused by weakness of the stomach.' No one can have
sound nerves and good health, without using Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters to strengthen the stomach, purify
the blood, and keep the liver and kidneys active, to carry
off all the poisonous and waste matter of the system. See
other column. —“ Advance.”
The Haiti ness of Millions.— On what does the hap-
piness of populations or individuals depend ? On that
inestimable blessing—Health. Ought it not then to be the
study of every Colonist to ascertain foi himself the best
means by which this priceless boon, once attained, can be
for ever "preserved ? The answer must be in the affirma-
tive. A large number of Colonists in New Zealand are
aware that there is a medicine which not only wards off
Disease, but rapidly cures all maladies that occur there,
wnd actually prolongs life. This invaluable medicine is
Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne, which cures
and arrests, in their very earliest stages, all the Diseases
that happen, not only in New Zealand, but in all the Aus-
tralian Colonies.—Sold everywhere throughout the
Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject
substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an Ele-
phant.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by' all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Their Name ia Lesion
Legions of people have had their lives made
miserable by piles. This painful difficulty is often
induced and always aggravated by constipation.
Dr. bell’s bitters is the great remedy for all
affections of this kind. It ac’s as a gentle cath-
artic, promotes a healthy action of the bowels, and
soothes and heals the inflamed surfaces. It has
cured hundreds of cases whe r e all other remedies
and applications have failed. Sold by all druggists.
tea and eastern merchants,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SI
E22EC TJTE IaiTIDEiTTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
before taking.
(FROM LIFE.)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine." —Proverbs 17-«, 22-®
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORI2EFIRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food. It has no equal. It feeds the Bram. Blood,
Nerves, Cures Diseases of .all kinds. Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Re stores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effect upon the
whole system, removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d. From all respectable Chemists, or sent
direct from the manufacturer, W, F. CAUNT, the
Pharmacy, Campeidown, Sydney..... ...
• Beware .of Imitations. Take no Substitute; ,
m.
AFTER TAKING.
(FROM. LIFE.)
Business Announcements.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or time times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
s nailer quantity for chi d'en.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affect ionp.
The action of Dande'ion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than aoy other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will iind
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One v ineglass two cr three times a day after
meals, dilu ed with same quantity of water. For
young tecj le about half the quan ity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHiT A MEDIC »L GENTLEMAN SAYS
A BOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
W ith thanks for forwarding me a bottle of jour
Row’s Dandelion Bitter 0 , and consider them mos"
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours far hfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886,
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a diffc’ ent
man. I can, therefore', with truthfnlnes o , advise
all who suffer from ltvcr complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tam worth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indiges ion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, tut all w thout
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
hor/ibly depres cd feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been m -y take advantage of them.
“I remain, dear sirs,
' \ “ Respectfully yours,
' “MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
ows
SOLD
JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD, BAIL NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as.well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief froin
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
TUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory"
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows : —-
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I .have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW'S
STE aNE S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope-others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pit-t-street.
“Declared at Sydney. 12th August, 1881, before
me. '
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.”
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
. , EDW. ROW. AND COMPANY,
A GLOOMY FORECAST
REBECCA : “It’s a nice Good Friday, Pa! The nicest Good Friday I remember for
years.”
MR. MEDCHISEDEC : “The Goot Friday vosh very fair, ma tear; put vere shall vee pe
next Goot Friday if Mishter Abigail’s pank doshent proke? He’s prought it
down to 200 per shent, ma tear, and vee shall all pe shtumpt.”


Business Announcements.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street.
THE 03STX J 'Sr
IRItU lISTEUUEVT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
BEG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favors,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
Musical Instruments
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
instruments for our new premises, and can
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGSQRDEONS
is something marvellous.
i
PATENT BRASS NOTED ACCORDEONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-. 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 10/-,
50/-, &o.
PATENT STEEL NOTED ACCORDEONS,
30/. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 42/ , 45/-, and 50/-.
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACCORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, np to £5 10/-.
PATENT GERM \N SILVER ACCOBDEON3,
30/-, 32/6>, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to £4.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-’,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Laehenal Anglo German 35/-.
„ ~ steel notes 50/-.
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood box, lock and key,‘complete
for 21/-.
SHIM
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last Amerioan Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 1 5/-, 20/-, 30/-, up to £l5 15/-,
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE:—
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 . „ „ „ i 10/-.
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zampinani’s at 6d , 9d., and 1/-, each.
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewington’B at 6d , 9d., and 1/-, each.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
.the colonies.
Enquiries, attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEM,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY,
Human life is very cheap on the European
Continent. This is why Russian reformers be-
come Nihilists, and blow up the other crowd with
dynamite. If the Russian reformer lived in Eng-
land, where property is very considerably res-
pected, he would steal the bloated capitalist’s
umbrella or forge his name for £5OOO as the surest
means of working him injury. But a man or so is
not of much account in Europe. The other day
the wolves in Hungary pursued a carriage, and
the coachman carefully kicked his master into the
road so as to give them a meal, and thereby save
himself, and in Russia, a little while since, a man
flung his son to the wolves in the same way.
Dear Bulletin I have just read through
“The. Day we Ought to Celebrate ” in your Cen-
tennial issue, in connection with the Eureka
Stockade, Ballarat. I was present throughout
the affair, and at that time a youth of only seven-
teen years of age. I had a share in a rich claim
opposite the London Hotel, kept by Hassall. There
was a now deceased individual on the field, who
fleshed his maiden sword at the Eureka Stockade ;
a cur I knew well, and of whose doings I recollect
the following:—He it was who, with some
troopers, - slaughtered a perfectly inoffensive
digger, more than three-quarters of a mile from
the scene of the struggle. This digger was a quiet,
harmless man, ovho had taken no part, either in
the demonstration against the license-hunting or
in the fight. _ In fact, he had only just arrived
from Creswick. The valiant heroes, who had
seemingly kept well out of the way of the bullets,
came across this_ Creswick miner standing at the
door of his hut listening to the firing, and wonder-
ing, what it was all about. They charged at him,
and shot him in ever so many places ; when their
ammunition was expended, they cut at him till
they were tired, and finally left him for dead. He
lived, however, for some days after this brutal
outrage. _ He died in the most terrible agony, an d
was buried in the old cemetery at Ballarat. I
knew all about the riots of the miners preceding
' the outbreak, and I was in the Stockade the whole
of the time. —Yours, A.C.
A Voice from the People,
THE GREATEST CURATIVE SUCCESS OF
THE AGE.
''fcT© medicine introduced to the public has ever-
A-’ met with the success accorded to bell’s
bitters. It stands to-day the best known cura-
tive article in the world. Its marvellous renown
is not due to the advertising it has received. It
is famous by reason of its inherent virtues. It
does all that is claimed for it, It is the most
powerful, speedy and effective agent known for
the building up of debilitated systems and general
family medicine.
Ophir, N.S.W., Dec. 9th, 188(5.
Bell’s Bitters Manufacturing Co. —Gentlemen—
/ have been a sufferer for seventeen years from
the effect of a cold I contracted while at work
under ground. I have tried almost everything, I
have also been to several doctors and have not re-
ceived any benefit, at times I am able to work for
a few weeks then get bad and for as many months
am confined to the house. I got a bottle of your
Bitter 3 last week from Orange, and took it within
a week, for every time the cough was trouble-
some I took a little, and I am glad to say I am
greatly improved, for I am able to do a little
mining since.
Ed. McConnell.
Ophir Diggings, via. Orange, N.S.W.
Bell's Bitters has been before the public but
a few months, yet the remarkable success which has
attended its use in the many hospitals and asylums
where it has been tested, has resulted in its being
placed on the list of regular supplies needed for
the daiiy use of the institution.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
ABKNTS FOB
NEW SOUTH WALES AND OUBKNBLAND.
Melbourne Daily Telegbaph, commenting
on the death of Kaiser William, remarks: —•
“There was a grand old Christian monarch show-
ing the world how a king may die —a king who
has faithfully done his life’s work, and who is at
peace with heaven and man.” This reminds us of
the old savage who, when dying, was exhorted to
forgive his enemies. “I have none,” grimly
replied the man of blood; “I have eaten them
all.”
Mr. Poulton, ex-Manager of the Commer-
cial Bank at Orange, N.S.W., is dead. It will be
remembered that lie resigned his position and,
constituting himself prophet-in-ordinary to the
wild and wicked West, preached to the. passers-by
on the highways, and held prayer-meetings in
every bush shanty. Poulton was no ordinary re-
ligious enthusiast. He was a thorough master of
the Bible, and he was moreover an elocutionist far
superior to the prelates who. drone out their dull
anathemas from many metropolitan pulpits. Boul-
ton’s cathedral was bounded by Wellington,
Parkes, Orange, and Warne of the globe’s cardinal
points, and the clear blue of an Austra-
lian sky domed his spiritual sanctuary, but
his prelatical palace was a bush hut. He gradu-
ally drew around him' followers, and put them
through fasts and penances innumerable, so they
found the path to heaven a particularly-rocky one.
Troublous times came, however. At one of his
religious demonstrations, on the Molong railway
platform, he indulged in a few extra spiritual ex-
travagances and was promptly “run in” by the
kical police. He was fined, but refused to recog-
nise the supremacy of Mammon by paying. A
medical certificate of lunacy sent him to Glades-
ville Lunatic Asylum, where a diet of perpetual
prayer and a course of never-ending fast soon puf
a stop to his earthly career. Of course, he was
mad ; but indeed he was not more so than every
religious enthusiast of this or any time. To put
it briefly, he was not quite in harmony with his
environment of villainy.
Words of Warning and Comfort.
“ If you are suffering- from poor health or
‘ languishing; on a bed of sickness, take cheer,
‘ if you are simply ailing-, or if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited,
‘ without clearly know-
‘ ing why, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
‘ will surely cure you.”
If you are a minister, and
have overtaxed yourself with your
pastoral duties, or a mother worn out
with care and work, or a man of business or
labor, weakened by the strain of your everyday du-
ties, or a man of letters toiling- over your midnight
work, Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters will
most surely strengthen you.
It’ you arc suffering from over-eating or drink-
ing, any indiscretion or dissipation, or are young
and growing too fast, as is often the case,
“ Or if you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
. ‘ that your system needs cleansing, tom
‘ ing, or stimulating, without intoxicat-
‘ ing, if you are old,
1 blood thin and impure, pulse
‘feeble, nerves unsteady, faculties
1 waning, Dr. Soule’S American Hop Bitters is what
. ‘ you need to give you new life, health, and vigor.”
If you are costive, or dyspeptic, or suffer-
ing from any other of the numerous dis-
eases of the stomach or bowels, it is your
own fault if you remain ill. If you are wasting
away with any form of kidney disease, stop
tempting- death this moment, and turn for
a—cure to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
If you are sick with that terrible sickness, Ner-
vousness, you will find a “Balm in Gilead” in Dr.
Soule s American Hop Bitters.
—lf you are a frequenter, or a resident of,
-—a miasmatic district, barricade your system against
—the scourge of all countries, Malaria, Epidemic,
—Bilious and Intermittent Fevers by the
use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow skin, bad breath
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters will give you fair skin,
rich blood, the sweetest breath and health. £5OO will he
paid for a case that they will not cure or help.
a. Lady’s Wish.
“ Oh, how I do wish my skin was as clear and soft as
yours,” said a lady to her friend. “ You can easily make
it so,” answered the friend. “How?” inquired the first
lady.
“By using Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters that makes
pure, rich blood, and blooming-'health. It did it for me
as you observe.”
None genuine without a hunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.
LICHTNEK & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Fla.otogrra.pln.ic Feq/u.isltee.
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
3 2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES iND PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
Business Announcements.
ewton and lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & Q’CONNELL STREETS.
Large stock of pianofortes by "the
most Celebrated Makers.
NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-* ee t Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen.
String and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with lowel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 lbs.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
Austrian bent-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Vert Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
C-IANVAS FOLDING
J COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
O 6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.: BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 455. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATENT
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space.
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Q ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Eurniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s'.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Eurniture Warehousemenj Spring and
O’Connell streets.
I
C E CHESTS,
Ale Sizes,
from 275,
NEWTON & LAMB.
UXCEL S I o R
UPRIGHT
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, fr®m 45a.
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, «r Bed-
rooms, new designs, eovered to order, in any
material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, (PGtonell-
street.
BEDDING-, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each,
NEWTON <fc LAMB


the Prince and the Pressi
Til? latest English sensation, the Tummy-Beere
l.tnhrdglio, was thus summarised by a London
Radical evening paper :
" Suddenly, as people were straining every ear to catch
every word from the pallid lips of Mrs. Beere, there came
from the Royal box the loud hum—nay, that is not tile
V'ord--the loud sliduts Of conversation. At first even the
IVelbtrnined alidienee ill the {stalls was startled out of its
propriety, aiiti looked ardUncl with a shoCk. It tVfts Soon
seen what was the matter. In the presence of the whole
audience the Prince of Wales was speaking, not ii! the
natural tone of conversation, but in such a voice as you
would expect if he were shouting' from one end to another
of a large field,”
Concerning this matter, which Ims a special even
if indirect interest for Australians, inasmuch as
the play at which the trouble occurred was
Written by Mrs; Canlpbell-PraCd (ilee Murray-
Prior, fdbnierly Of Queensland), ail organ of the
greet!'-rootn aristocracy has the following
u Most Of the subjects touched on by tile radical rags
Are absolutely oiitsicfe the knowledge of clean-minded and
Ulean-handed. nleri;We liaVe to candidly admit that the
r.vWj Made. Gazel'Dl lias riiofe opportunities of obtaining
jljsqhitelj'' .aiitpeptic information from Eliza Jarrett about
the vilest of the, vilp, and fnoia, Jennies as to whether ser-
f apts bet than we have. It would toe quite impossible,
indeed, for us to compete r witln thfem, for they have the
monopoly of everything that is disreputable and dirty.
You have to be born toi the manner of Bill Sikes and
Nancy before you can mix with them. In the same way,
ydu must be born a gentleman before you can feel like
one, to say nothing of mixing with them. Once a cad, a
cad for ever. If you were born in a hovel, and grew up
with a snub nose, high-cheek bones, a strong dialect, and
splay feet —good clothes, six lessons in French, a nose-
machine and tight boots are simply wasted on you, and
you will never cither look a gentleman or feel like one.
It is the same if you are born of gentlefolk, and are
brought up and educated among decent people, you never
succeed in getting away from your early breeding and
training. You may do a great many desperately wrong
things, and mix with exceedingly questionable company ;
hut you never quite manage to get out of a gentleman s
skin, and you always have the instincts of one. Ido not
or one minute intend to insinuate that to be born a ca<l
las not many more advantages than to be born a gentle-
nan. I merely wish to point out that the breeds are as
distinct as that of cart-horses and Arabs. That is not my
point, lam only anxious to preserve the fact that cads
are cads, and gentlemen are gentlemen, and that they do
l!ot nlix aiid cannot compete on the same platform, for
the, simple reason that they do not understand one
mother. It is for this reason that we seldom understand
dun Radical papers. Occasionally, however, they try to
anderstapd gentlemen, and then it is that they become
i;eally amusing'. .It is singular the effect that the sight of
a gentleman has upon the Red rags. They become raving
triad, dash into anything, and lose all control over them-
selves and over the English grammar. A singular in-
stance of this occurred on last Wednesday night, at, the
Opera Comique. The Prince of Wales occupied a private
box, and early in the first act was noticed to turn his hack
< nthe stage and start talking. If everyone else had done
he same, it would not have been surprising,
tr the play was intensely dull and nasty. The
Prince, however, not only showed his good sense, but had
very just cause for making a public protest against a
direct insult which was publicly offered to him in the pre-
sence of some hundreds of people. He went out of his
way to honour Mrs. Bernard-Beereby patronising her first,
night, and only theatrical managers know how valuable
the Prince’s patronage is to them. Th< fact of the Prince
having visited a theatre puts hundreds of pounds m a
theatrical manager’s pocket, and managers naturally do
all they call to induce him to come. The Prince of Wales
is a busy man, but there is no better patron of the drama,
and he' has often and often put himself out, and bored
himself by sitting out a stupid play, in order to give a
theatrical manager who wanted it a leg up. The Prince
of Wales is the leader of fashion, and has always shown
himself not only the best of judges of good taste, bu,
considerate and forgiving. At tjie same time, he verj
properly resents a liberty, and objects to be made a butt,
of to please anyone. When a certain actor so far forgot,
himself as to" sing an indecent song at Marlborough
Moiise, the Prince snubbed him publicly, by turning his
hack and starting talking. At the same time, when it
reached the Prince’s ears that the snub had b ten noised
abroad, he made a point of not only going the very next,
night to tile theatre where the. actor in question was
playing, but actually took the Princess with him, so as
to allay the scandal, and show he bore no ill-feeling.
An almost similar insult was offered to the Prince at the
Opera Comique on Wednesday night, and he very properp
again administered a snub, by turning his back, and talk-
ing in a loud tone of voice. One of the characters in the
play had to say: “ There is Mrs. So-and-So, who is always
pleasant, and always has a smiling face,” or words to that
effect, and Mrs. Oampbell-Praed, in order to show how
conversant she is with good society, gave the lieioine
these words to say : “ Yes, ail Illustrious Personage one.
told her she had'pretty teeth, and she has been on the
orin ever since.” Everyone who is not a Radical joui-
nalist knew at once that not only was the Prince refened
to, but that a piece of gratuitous impertinence had been
offered to a well-known la!jdy in society, and was not m
auv way surprised at the Prince’s otherwise unexplainable
conduct, The Prince of Wales did, as he always does,
precisely the right thing. Indeed, there was absolutely
nothing else that he could have done under the circum
stances. He, good-naturedly, came to the theatre to do
Mrs Beere a good turn, and he was alluded to with the
vulgar familiarity with which a lion comique addresses
his%al, the chairman. The theatre, however, is not a
music-hall, and Mrs. Beere had no more right to allude
to the Prince and his friends than she would have to
allude to me or anyone else in the boxes or stalls.
From these remarks a lot of things become appa-
rent all at once. For one thing, it appears that
Wales is in the habit of making remarks to his
lady friends regarding their personal appearance
-if he were not, the allusion to the Illustrious
Personage would lose its point, especially as the
capital letters are not expressed in conversation.
For another, when the Prince is offended by a
public performance it is “the right thing for
him, instead of leaving the theatre as any average
gentleman would do, to “holler out, and thus spoil
the enjoyment of others who have paid for their
night’s amusement. In his capacity as a gentle-
man—which the Tory paper so carefully points
out is an entirely distinct animal from a cart-horse
—and from the high moral aspect of his character,
he feels himself called upon to bawl, m the
presence of a large audience, in order to drown an
unwholesome play. Mrs. Beere, whom he thus
endeavoured to smother, was formerly a barmaid
in the employ of Spiers and Pond, and her
speciality is pourtraymg the heroines of divorce
cases on'the stage, and Mrs. Praed s strong point
lies in writing dramatic balderdash of a character
which is unhealthy to the verge of absolute im-
morality. The moral Wales knew, from the con-
i unction of two such stars, what kind of a show he
was going to witness, and, having attended dozens
of similar plays before, his screaming can only be
accounted for on the basis of an innate inability to
conduct himself decently or a sudden and incon-
siderate repentance combined with a resolve to
live cleanly and abjure ballet-girls for the rest of
his life.
The Rev. Jefferis will lecture shortly on
“Bars and Casinos.” It is alleged that the
reverend gentleman intends relating several racj
personal experiences in the course of his remarks.
A certain small Central Queensland town-
shin of 350 inhabitants has one magistrate, 13
justices of the peace, and 13 public-houses,
which each pay an annual license ot too.
In aN.S.W. country newspaper a Registrar
notifies a licensing meeting, and adds to Ins signa-
ture the following list of ms decorations
P M C.P.S., C.L.A., L.M. end R. How they
do love baubles in a democratic country!
This is the pretty little pantomime per-
formance that is played at least once a day on the
tram lines Woman With satchel enters car, sits
down, adjusts biistle; guard approaches, ask®
fare ; woiflati opens satchel; takes out purse, shuts
satchel, opens purse, takes out sixpence, shuts
purse, opens satchel, puts in purse, shuts satchel,
offers sixpence, receives thl-eepenCe change, opens
satchel, takes otit pUrse, shirts satchel, opeh*
purse, puts in threepence, Closes purse,' opens
satchel, puts in purse,- closes satchel; car stops,
and out she skips’;
Rather a novelty in the way of disputed
wills has just turned up in London. _ It appears
that one Henri Meynard, a materialist ot de-
cidedly original notions, willed all liis property to
ids own dead body, ordering all bis motley to be
spent for its glorification in the shape of a splendid
mausoleum. The judges, however, decided that
property cannot be bequeathed to subjects hat-
mg no regular civil existence,’ and therefore
quashed the will; It would be interesting to
know how this decision would fit the ease of the
late Archpriest O’Meara, Of St; Franeis, Mel-
bourne, who bequeathed £lOO fw the Celebration
of masses for the repose of his soul:
“Mining and Sfe'pdrdtibn in N.Q.” is tile
last of three books successfully published tit Hus-
band by Mr. A. J. lvimev. It is the voice of the
leading* men of the north heard for (me first time t
claiming their right of self-government, as op-
posed to the present expensive farce of tins bane
misrule. An overland trip to Croydon, and a
description of that field, with the crushings to the
end of February, is a leading feature. The expo-
sure of the notorious kanaka commission, and the
details of the Central Mill fiasco at Mon, should
mean a good deal now that Griffith is trying to
get another five years of autocratic power by the
same means as in 1883. It is very likely that
“Mining and Separation will be republished m
London.
“ Let us be honest,”
says the Sydney Daily
Telegraph. All right.
Anything for a change.
In a trade journal
we read that the reason
that sherry has drifted
out of the list of fashion-
able wines is the almost
exclusive use of cheap and
inferior “German ’
alcohol.
Bismarck’s life was
once saved by his dog.
The lives of the sons of
Fatherland will continue
to be saved by dogs as
long as the German
sausage is a national in-
stitution.
While the Local Op-
tionists are busy reducing
the number of public-
houses, M‘Cra c k e n’s
brewery, Melbourne, is
being floated into a
limited liability company
with a capital of
£2,000,000 sterling.
A correspondent to
one of the Sydney daily
papers calls attention to
the fact that in every
benefit friendly society
established in New South
Wales a candidate for
membership must declarfi
his allegiance to the
British throne, and the
members must pledge
themselves to assist m
preserving' the union
which exists between
England and the
colonies !!!
Two Inglewood
(Vic.) policemen, after a
desperate struggle, suc-
ceeded in capturing an
old woman of 70 years
of age. On being ironi-
cally complimented con-
cerning their prowess,
one of them exclaimed
angrily, “Dammit! ye
can talk as ye like
wasn’t she oulder than
the both of us put to-
gether?” This reminds
us of the story of the
young man in Ballarat
who had a quarrel with
an old man, and pro-
posed to settle it in the
usual fashion. Some
body whispered that the
old man was over £0
years of age. “I don t
care a d ,” replied the
young man, “Id knock
the stuffin’ out of him if
he was 90.”
A ton of diamonds is worth £0,000,000.
The Potts Pointers should make a note of that so
as to prevent the diamond-dealers working off the
coalman’s 17-cwt.-to-the-ton dodge upon them.
A Maitland (N.S.W.) man advertises:—
“ Fifty pounds reward will be given to any person
that can prove that lam a married man. We
know several men who would cheerfully give fifty
times fifty pounds to anyone who would prove
they are not married men.
A certain admirer of our Hairy Bismarck
calls him the “Father of the Country, winch re-
minds us that the Parkes Relief Fund Committee
intend to invest the result of their shameless cadg-
ing for the benefit of the ’ero hof the breadless
’ome, although he solemnly declared he would not
touch a penny, but give it all to his children. As
a very small section of the said children we most
emphatically protest against our greedy go-
vernor’s ” grab.
Down South one of the newly-macle J s. r.
is already reported to be “doin’ splmdidly.
Whenever an acquaintance meets him, and inci-
dentally refers to any impropriety on the part ot a
fellow townsman, the new Dogberry at once
breaks in, and says : ‘ Whisht, an Oi 11 tell ye/
fwhat t’ do. Take a summons out fur mm, an
Oi’ll be on tli’ Bincli meself, d’ye see, now. And
when he is on the Binch he invariably makes it
“ foive pounds or a month ■’ for all that come
before him.
Parkes says that it is no part of the duty
of the Government to find employment for those
people who are importuning him fox- work. Henry
George—who, by the way, professes a fiscal
faith which Parkes only prof esses to profess-says
that it is t the sole duty of good Government to
provide employment for or/e o i the god-eiHSq
that is able tb wort, arid to further assure to' such
workers a sufficiency of fbod, clothirig, ?hd s'helteri
After all, in a young country like Australia, if
this not a statement of the whole question of Free-
trade versus Protection ?
According tb Mr.- Cughldn, N.S.W.
Goveriinient Statistician, the fdlltwkg . figures
represent the cofriparatße populations of
and Victoria -.New Soiitli Wales : Males, 57 1,912 j
females, 408,907; total, 1,042,919. Victoria:
Males, 550,050; females, 486,060; total, 1,030,110.
The great faith-healing game is not pros-
pering at Wellington (N.Z.) A convention was
held some little tune ago ill that windy city for
the purpose of breathing through red flanilel pfi to
damaged and decayed brethren and magnetising
ruined human fabries, but it broke Up suddenly
owing to the discovery that the. whole batch of
delegates did not possess enough faith, among them
to cover a penny doll, let alone sufficient to clothe
a good-Sizcd Keristian beriither weighing 18 stone
and filled with btiiis, hope, charity, muffins,
brotherly ldvte,, biittered toast, arid six cups of
strong test. The Circums'tahCes of this break-up
were painful in the extrehic. There was a large
audience o,f.paralytics and others, and preparatory
to the business qf tpe evening, a piedj.tative
Ixmnder .was, delivering an address,, on Jaith re-
garded as a, cupe for measles, mumps, shipwreck,
sudden death, premature baldness, hypochondria,
dog-bites, goats, and pursuing crocodiles. The
chairman was dozing in the seat of honour, and a
number of sober sisters were gathered around
him. Suddenly a dense smoke began to rise
from the slumbering gentleman; a crackling
sound was heard, and a cry went forth
that the superintendent of the new sect was a
THE VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE NATIVES.
combusted office-bearer. The chairmans coat
tails had been dangling in the jaws of the gas-
stove and the devouring element had attached
itself to the garment. Then the brotherhood for-
got all about their power to heal the singed part
of the sufferer by the exercise of faith, and
streaked in wild terror for the door, treading
cripples and paralytics underfoot as they went.
The sisters girded up their bustles and sliddered
from the platform on top of the apostles, and
the apostles fell over the disciples, and there arose
a great shove among the halt, the maimed, and
the blind. All sorts of diseases were cast
out into the gutter, and the chairman was
left behind in a state of wild conflagration
vainly reaching for his coat-tails m his efforts to
extinguish the holocaust which was going oil at
the back of him, and kicking himself with both
feet in a badly-scared endeavour to alleviate his
sufferings. His fate promised to be a lamentable
one, but at this awful crisis a big cripple stumped
resolutely up to the platform, and whacked out
the flames with his crutches, his wooden leg, and
his hat, and having got the patient down, he
poured the contents of the water-bottle over his
smouldering frame. Then the fire brigade ap-
peared on the scene, and turned a 50 horse-power
stream on to things in general, knocking the
cripple over, and washing him to the other end of
the premises. A little later the pallid
healers began to straggle back, and wanted to
breathe through red flannel on the soaked and muti-
lated one, but he rejected their kindly offers with
scorn, and said if he couldn’t be dried by faith, he
would abandon the whole thing, and ivith that he
stumped away with derision in his eye. Ihe con-
ference shortly afterwards adjourned indefinitely,
and the hall was swabbed and purified, and adver-
tised as being to let*
ORRESPONDENCE
‘ K.M,” : (Wallendbeen) : Received “ Tlie
Horse-breakef ” : Specimen of common ordinary stupidity
froni the back-blocks.... “ J,8,A,” ; Tub Bim,ktin is
not influenced either by Patties' taunts or by bis threats.
It is fully cognisant of the secret move made against Hby
a certain politician after its Jubilee Issue.,,. “ L.A,” ; 0.)
Tiiß RutiLfctiS has HOW been published for over nine years'#
(2.) We cannot tell tf01i. ...“ 0,1).” (tffeSp Creek): Vcfl
start, what looks like it good story, and thett so\i tail off
into desolate nothingness and leave,yout hero drunk and
jumping in the rtit. ttid he eonte down again?...." Tap
quin ” (DtisbstWe): fllad to Hear front ydU.. .. " Mac*
Lo.Ughiin ” : (j 00 d idert..... 11 J.P.8.” : Meld over...-.-
“ w.i;;”: The exact words wef'e “The English lam
guage has never jjraSh'eft piji A tb'feigH latighdgk that
language was, supported .by a fiteraitide and a civilisa-
tion.”— “ Mrs. i( , K. ”,(Tasniaiiift) ( in'co'h'efeht..
“ A. 8.” (Rylstone): The abounding wastes cjf i j' : ou?
ghastly etymology are to |Cpntemplate
“A Bushman”: Noble sentiments. Idiotic | verse..
“ Koreelah ” (Fairfleld): Revoltingly parochial item...
“ Demos ”: It is absurd to imagine that health altogether
compensates for poverty. Of what value is health to
those who cannot earn a living? Does not the fact of
being in excellent health even aggravate the suffering
caused by want of money ?...." Anonymous ” : Rather a
pretty jingle. We will give it a corner :
“ You ask for a verse written out of my head
Instead of a verse from a poet,
But if I complied, w hen my verse you had read
In the fire you would hastily throw it.
And as I don't wish for that fate for my verse,
I will not w’rite a verse if I know it,
But instead of a verse written out of my head,
I will write you a verse from a poet,
.. “ Republic ” (Silvertcm) ‘ Major Atkinson’s scheme for
disbanding the N.Z. volunteers, and replacing them with
imported English troops is dfily another proof of the
undermining influence of a title: If the Major's dochia
tion had come from C’Hinff instead of fchgland lie Woftid
probably want tp bring in a fevv regirifehts Of BlaOk liagS
to defend the eoiqhy. The degradation is much the sat’d
in either case. When a country begins to rely oh foreij ii
mercenaries for its defence it is always oh' the do\Vh gthtl
.. “T. Love ”: The Victorian farmer, as you adpiit,’ has tlih
command of his own market, which says a lot for Pro
tection. The N.S.W. farmer liasn’t a show at. all in his
Own market, because it is cheaper to bring wheat from
San Francisco to Sydney than from the interior to Sydnei •
Of course, as you point out, the Victorian farmer has to
sell his surplus grain outside the colony for what it wilt
fetch. Whenever a country, whether Freetrade or Pro
tective, has a surplus of anything—raw material, mami
factured goods, or even human labour—it lias to he sold
for what it will fetch. What else is to be done with it ?..
“ Henry Hutchison ” (Richmond, Vic.): Many thanks....
“ S.S.L.” : We are not “ colonials,” we are Australians...
“ Drover ” (Bundarra): Your item about the infant who
swallowed a piece of meat has dropped into the waste-
Daper basket. We don’t pan out much on half-choked
nfants.. .. “ A Beer Fittler”: Your letter came to the
wrong place. It should have been addressed to Gladeo
ville Asylum. That, however, is not where we work....
“ H.A.L. ’’: Received verses ; will read.... “ Helix ” (Boyne
[., Gladstone, Q.) : Cartoon idea especially good..
“ A.B.”(Rylstone): Your etymological lucubrations handed
toour etymological editor.... “Ranob ’’(Maryborough, Q.);
Poverty, it is possible, cannot be utterly abolished, hut
nineteen-twentieths of it certainly can. In England, for
instance, the taking over of the land b\ the State, com-
monly known as Land Nationalisation, Would yield to the
Government a revenue Which would ehable them to tit-.
terly abolish all taxation, Whether ioeal of general.
Taxation in Great Britain ainoUhts th £125,000,0(10 per
annum, so that the proportion for a family of eight in d
London slum is—excluding the few taxes which affect
only the rich—some £26 per annum. Is there not in this
matter alone some explanation of how penury can be alle-
viated, if not abolished?...." E.A.” : Suttor was not re-
jected at Bathurst because of his Native Trade policy
He was thrown over by the Orangemen because ie
joined the Jennings party and refused to ; o
into Opposition at the tail of Parkes
"Anti-divorce”: Your contention that with increased
facilities for divorce there would be fewer and few, r
unions of life-long happiness, carries its own refutation
on its face. The facilities for divorce have been denier’,
yet men and women, many of them, live cat-and-rh g
existences; men run away from home with the woman
who is more agreeable than the nagging wife ; the young
bride deserts the antique bridegroom for the handsome
young man with the moustache. Sentimental life-unioi s
there will always be, simply because men and women are
built that way. Abolish marriage entirely and there would
possibly be more life-long unions based on sentiment
because then there would be no legal barriers in the way
of mating with the individual who made up the eon)
plement of one’s nature. There is nothing sacred about
marriage as it is known to conventional society. The
marriage and divorce laws of any community are only the
social recognition of an attraction and a union between
the sexes which will eternally endure in default or even in
defiance of social recognition “ T.Y.” : You write
“ Yes, I’ll shoulder my swag and go on the track
When I’ve turned these thoughts into rhyme.”
That sort of thing won't do “P.8.G.”: What do you
mean by—
“ How many a form on life’s dark storm
Wastes but to give you joke ?”
“G. L. Seymour”: What practical good can a “de-
mand” for Home Rule, made in the columns of a colonial
paper, accomplish ? Why not look nearer home ? We
have a, young Republic to build up on Australian soil
whicbought to exercise every spare energy of everv Aus
tralian “Hibernian”: You do well to use such a Hour
de plume when you w rite about a “ fresh eternity.”
“Thomas” (Melb.): Thanks...." Lord Protector”: A
poetical idea, but not dexterously expressed. Try again.
“Austral”: You ask why does a reformer turn dog
on his fellows ? You might just as well ask why Abigail’s
Bank asks 200 per shent on a blood-sweating loan to a
necessitous workman.. .. “ Subscriber ” (Queensland):
Maitland takes in “ Higher Law,” a different set of con-
ditions altogether from those at present existing. Have
you never read of the matrimonial relations of the
ancient Spartans ? “ Wallaby Track ” : Next week.
“ Joe Plianacki ”: It may be very interesting, but we
can’t read it.. “ J. H. Stewart” (“ The Mount,” Bathurst):
Will publish your letter.... “ Subscriber ” (Sydney): The
handwriting is so parochial we could only get at your
meaning in gulps “ New Chum ” (Ivanhoe): Isn’t vour
grievance a very local one, now? “A. H. Briice”
(Moama): A lively little fiction but rather too “ previous.”
“ Freethouglit ” (East Molong): Will consider vour
long and badly scribbled letter “ Gum Leaf ” (Brecza):
Will probably print your prophecy “ Walter Wilson ” :
Mr. Wise says lie “ believes that the future of Australia
is in union with Great Britain.” This utterance stamps
Mr. Wise for ever as an anti-Australian. Mr. Wise, we
presume, is an honest man, and honest men always act
upon what they really “believe.” “ J. J. Lander'” : Re-
ceived. ..." W. 8.” (North Shore): Thanks for clippings...
“Jonah Mayall ” (Bailiestown, Vic.): Will read letter.. ..
“Ed. Massin”: Gladstone could have eventually beaten
the Boers by force of numbers, hut, recognising the in-
justice of the British cause, he declined to go on -with tin;
■war even after the Dutchmen had routed the Imperial
troops and captured cannon which they refused to give
up and which they.retain to this day.'...,“ J. Walton ” :
The Sydney Evening News is a venal rag which gots
cold-bloodedly for money “Anxious Mother”: Tilt-
official records cannot be altered, but you may call the
child what you please, always keeping in mind, however,
for legal purposes, its real name Liberator ” (Mejb.);
thanks?


Business Announcements.
McXJBAIf BROS., RIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 STBEET, SYDNEY.
o
VJ
o
9
IRONMONGERS
512
X
p
o
Oa l REG 1 ?
<>•
<
SPECIALI TIES t
Davis' Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Carbon Light
* ELECTRO-PLATEB WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS’COOKING STOVES i-LEONIS FLETCHER’S. JEANS & WALKER’S,
BRADFORD’S WASHING MACHINES, &0., &o,
1.
COMPOT INI)
iSSEICE OF DiHDEUO!
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
Mpsliit. Livtr and Sidney liioritu,
Eead testimonials wrapped with each bottle and yon will be convinced.
NE’S LIVER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and tonic In conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
ONE'S ESSENCE OF DANDELION, sa. per Bottle.
Box. Of all Chemists.
LIVER PILLS, Is. per
Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
Qiticura
on Soup.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
aoroful* on N»ckw
InMPLES to SCROFULA
HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
’ Etching and Burning Skin Torturea,
Sormfi and avaru anAnlaa At Ttehinfif.
iC*iy. Pu ? or ®*» and every apeciea of Itching,
jWe lnherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
- 6* °* the Blood,.Skin, and Scalp, with
from infancy to old age, are cured by
Insolvent, the new Bio ~
Hood Purifier,
gL?' *ud Guticuba and Cuticuba Soap, the
Cures and Beautifiera, externa
gjj«r»» n JP »nd Burning Skin Diseases,
' Grocers’, Washerwoman's Itch,
■£. o°th and Delicate Irritationa peculiar
S3 l Instantly relieved by a warm bath
Soap and a aingle application oi
»tol J'v ® K reat Skin Cure. This repeated
a. l*Peemi hree doaea of Cuticuba Resolvent,
cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
other meansabaolutely fail.
Ilf!? 1 Popular Work on the Skin,
Re-
sol-
anv vJouT A'opuiar wors on me i
re A Plates, ia wrapped about the
iw ^, oi °ne hundred Testimonials,
fjj e st ««* to before the British Consul, which
* t°ry: I have been a terrible sufferer
tf I? been Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
w-Pty to shun public places by reason
kc ***; ?^ Ur ing humors; nave had the best phy
>Ki fe lief ,f Ve npent hundreds of dollars, and got
•u ‘ c h I ÜB ed the Cuticuba Remedies,
klPttrs ® cured me, and left my skin and blood
uj. a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.’’
Australian Consignees,
' T °Wr u ff Co New s ou th Wales
CUTICURA RESOLVEN , the new Blood Puri- j
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleaned the BloM
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE. Hence
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cnticura, the Gbbat Skin Cpbb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), Instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cnticura Soap., an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun-
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cnticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
<U uggbrts throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
JSealMid. Ctjtig'UßA, 60 cents per box, large boxes,
OtmcußA Soap, 25 cents; Cdtiouba Shav-
ing ioxp, 16 cents; Cuticuba Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Pbupabbd bt m
Potter Drug ft Chemical Co., Bsitea, U.I.A.
ST
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
SIDIITBTJBG-B.
ft, OUNYNQHAMB, Bond-itwet, Bydn«y,
In bulk
and case,
Beat BEER
In fcheJMarket,
w i mu:*
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
Business Announcements.
M
0 N 17 M * V T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railing*.
Design* and Estimates forwarded on request-
J. CURAINfiIiH,
MABGARKT-BTRXET, WyNYAB.D-BQUA.RK, SYDNEY
A WONDERFUL MEDIUSNE,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
CH4
%
0
&
PATENT
PILLS.
w
3*
®»
*
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for theyjhave done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills,' and they will be acknowledged to be -
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular, system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bebcham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time he re-
moved.
Cautiox. —The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Bkkcham’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. ©n
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beechain, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ljd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and
Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING MATTES;
6EORGF STREET
SYDNEY
'•* PORTERS OF All THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
6*iPITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
w * Paid-up Capital ... .. £1,000,000
a, Reserve Fond ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, «an offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred't.
y Drafts issued and Bills ctUected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be
application.
N. F. GIBLIt, Acting Manager.”
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
203 to 269 Kent-atreet,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK* Tfor
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
Business Announcements.
'
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
FIRST QUALITY,
0 W*a :my/
stssi>
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnson & Co,,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney*
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor,
rKIDUES
FOOD
INFANTS «m INVALIDS
'•las an enormous sale in Engla'nd,
nui is now being introduced Into tire
Colonies.
Svery Storekeeper should get a suppiy ,„
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
■XT.RIDGE'S ROYAL POOD MILLS,
LONDON»SNGLANt
X
BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
m
AS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
HAHUB
n j
AS
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE J
Syjhon Mil Water Co.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY,
Perfect Parity Guaranteed.
«rm wmi Mottit»ch> wd VMitwi. »uo»i «nw
kßoyd’t Board XUtrtr did (kit,
land trill do it on either told
“head or hart /act- Ferret
heavy Mouetaehe in from 9 to
* 4 teeeht and never/aUt. 9o,ooo' . .
trepyrighted. young men already wear /nil Copyrighted,
beardt, having need llt 3 phti. No injury, tatily applied,
- • r \teni
, Sole Agent,
in tftet. Paehete, It. id. each, i/or St. Sd., poet paid, ten! under
cover,/rte/rom obeervation. Addreet, Fr«nk Uuutlu, r
Box wo. a. T. 0., Sydney, N.B. W,
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker,
296 PITT STREET.
s.
JNJmpferz?
Marquces'on Hire.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Thrik Goto Menses—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA, IBB4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRffiA & TOMEIDIUM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents,
ATKINSON’S
odour It far surpasses the numerous com-
pounds soid under the same name
ATKINSOIfS FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Vtalcrt, and of tht Manufacturtrt —
J. A K. ATKINSON,
M, Old Bond Bt*xst, London.
-Trade Mark —“White Rose'' on “ Golden ,
Is Lyre.’’


POWDER
Absolutely Pure®
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Pewder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Baking
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
P. R. LARKIN,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT ANB IMPORTER.
The Famous 13 Case of ASSQ&TES WINES aid SPIRITS
CONTAINS
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
Total ... 18.
Securely Packed and Delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3,
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
FHIE OF ILFS’ HOTEL, corner of George ad Gippe Streets.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George Street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
GO CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
VENI, VIDI, TIGL
BUHiI
For Artistic Posing and Effectira
combining softness and brilliancy.
of
GHARLEMONT ft CO.,
ROYAL ARCADE,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY ALONS*_
T
OF
TH*
HE WONDER
COLEMANE AND S° NS \
Pure Volatile fucalypte Oii^
the only Genuine Eucftlyptejn ** jjjjg
GOLD MEDAI. ADELAIDE J
exhibition.
All those suffering from Asthma, WfJ
sumption, Rheumatism, Neuragf ’will
Kidney and Gravel Complaints, Ol tfrJo^
OIL a SAFE CURE. Dise^
stands without a rival for “JLji aA e teehDO®*'L,
Bad Eyes. We have more bo “® p oB ted u
than any medicine in the woriO- flt oil. $
address on receipt of stamps.
and 2s. 6d ; Ointment, 2s. anijs bo. mCfl0 H«
Sydney and Suburbs, W. C. SMI •
Moore Park, Sydney, —&
HE SCIENCE W
By W. Knox Parker,
M.P-
T by w. A»—- wurztf
A Book for Young and Old " r ioo P re .ldf<
bound in cloth, and contains Deflec-
tions. Price, post paid, _ 3s. • jj er vo«" $
sample free. Those suffering . oaC e
haustion and Diseases should 96 yr %. f
valuable work. Address:
Post Office Chambers, corner Born*
streets, Melbourne, Vic.
A Blessing in every Fuuul.' •
OLLOWAY’S ’ PILLS - 4Slised^fe
the healing
recogtiised
ailments of
’ There ts not a country ****ss£s&
aling virtues of these grand”" In
H
■ ’—; virtues ui uwac & L “‘ r n an
by thousands of sufferers, tion > s *j r u3 e {
! humanity their beneficent; (or the r jftjJ
cognised. Fullest directions are sUPP 9 P®
every disease IF YOU $ &
factured only at 78 New Oxi' oi^ u ' s n T he *
chasers should look to the Libel on Loll doi>-
If the address is not 523 Oxford-str ,
spurious.
G-aEis.T SALE or
TJ&-
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Hhart-.Hno. rflrtnntfon* for a limited. nerlod for Cash only. In oon«equenoe of the Premises having been sold and great alterations pending.
Startling reductions PJggjk®" °“ ITH R EM WluL BKCBiVK PROMPT ATTENTION.
COUNTRY UKUBU3, V»un ■■ ■ ■
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 <IED K Q-E STREET.
CO.,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL &
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithl"g, Blacksmithing. Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH,” “VALVE,” and “ PAN ” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan Fowls, «as Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT STREET,
Sydney.
BREWERS and Crated Water Makers’ Machinery and Appliances. Books °“ t" mia n
making. Dr. Griefendorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorff’s Boh tf
Dr. Griefendorff s Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorff’s Quinine Wine. Utica a
Bittera. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Presses and oiher sorts.
and casks. Boakes’ Liquid Albumen Wine Finings. Thermometers, O OP
Ammonia and Ether Ice Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, &c. Illustrated Catalogue, post free on application.
Publishing Office of „ rT vrir A>^
1 THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, MINERAL WATER, WINE
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also „ „
“ THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE.
■ffl
Tanloffiro 5
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneers. Real Property Sales ran,
ROCKHAMPTON.
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute. _
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
JVEOJSTjB^B
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
IMiOXTSZ’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole .agents -
Mathey, Nathan & Co,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Collins Street East, Melbourne.
IDJEI
L.R.C.P.,
registered in
. j- ' & °s.
Kdin., L. R. C. S. Jpd ?
Great Britain, , 7
registered. m ureat cnuuu,„ r,C)U <
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princess .ji
Resident Medical Officer to the 0 f a*
London, specialist for the treatm pi
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter or P gjjgb'; j
charge, at Edgar House, No. >
D E - 11 -roo S K «* 3 ,»
Send for large Bound *OU inch* t>° V
for all Nervous Diseases; P rl . L, coS ts ,.he“
Hunter-street Sydney.
eases ; i’ 1 n co^jm
age, (id. in stamps. Consults i \vt*®
and the Doctor will tell you at
case is curable or not, Addres
DR. RIOHA^V
7 SPRING STREET. »*
Are
TATTERS ALE’S . jlfjJ j
MONSTER CONSULT* 1 ...JV
Are open upon all the.Pri 1 ® 1 ?,
throughout the Year. For t ftlgo P'jrtr fi
“ Town and Country Journal, 4i rrat^Ve)'/;
“Evening News.’’ Address,
of George Adams. Tattersall 3»“ t s*»“
sons making applications for i S‘ l * e iiC ,
to register their letters to en e & of / {
also enclose two addressed sta 0 f ca
for reply and the other for res
Commercial Hotel, 6ymp ie
Ti
Squatting Hotels m
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation.
Mrs.
compi gN^
d
the
g°“7 V if
T. F. WIESENER,
INDSBD, the Industrial Hive at 334 GEO RGE
life and unaffeobed by Old World Com oebiblon.
20 year a ago, on the sound principles of PLAIN
|T. F. W.'s intimate aid personal knowledge
and materials for their manufacture In Sydney are
Field Glasses, Levels, Theodolites, eta
O?- 3T „ WIBSHNE E, 33
Instrument
Scientific
Optician
Jeweller,
Watchmaker,
and
STRQBT
The
Special Goods made to Order at the Import Depot and Steam Factory of
4 GBO RGB S T R 11 B T , S ~ST
■sr-
nsr b
Ej
