

JOUR
FOR
FJRY’S MALTED COCOA.
3. 8. FRY & SONS, Bmunoit, LOmsok akd Stdsk. - »»*" " -=['
"Ad ordinary cup oontaint men active propertlm ei mail than a pint ei the beet Ale ei Pertei."—Lamtat
the Finest Estate yet Offered to the Public,
aribyrnong
Park,
and a-half miles from the Melbourne General Post Office.
One mile from Ascot Vali Station
This superb Estate will be offered in allotments each Week until disposed of.
S.
THE
Magnificent water frontages,
VILLA SITES, MANSION SITES,
|y
6 been the theme of constant admiration, and when you remember that C. B. Fisher,
*'> Weil known in raeing and squatting circles, ’spout ,£4D,ODDJin improving the land,
|you will all rush for Plans and Passes to
» ' jm
'j & -*JLm . ’*!. _.-.-aacsa
Shevill & Co,, Auctioneers,
In conjunction with E. SHATXOCK, and J. J. RENDLE.
SURVEYORS:
**srs. Terry & Oakdsn and J. S. Jenkins.
SOLICITORS ;
Messrs. Madden & Butler*
The Bulletin


am) mar Bros.
I*»*
ANUFACTURIRS
nrrififßs
1/ o]NiTiR T AC“'T'O H S
m
&YM£Y
m
TOBACCO
r
El
IXS UNISONS
*
a
o
v
ISIRROGERI
u
DIXSONS
Excelsior hotel, charters
TOWERS.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
NOULTMTS
FRUIT
SIVER COMPLAINT p witlvely cured by
BOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured
lot merely relieved, and we can prove what we say.
rhere are no failures and no disappointments.
KOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures al
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
ind DYSPEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
llstress from too hearty eating, correct DIS-
3RDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
fjIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
tfedicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Ixtract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
I la possible for a Pill to be.
Bold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
0. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
ILLS
IFB PRESERVATION!
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lokbdaxb Stbbbt East, Mb&soubrb.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mall 3s. 6d. (any oolonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
McLEAN BEOS., EIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
61* GEORGE BTRKET, SYDNEY.
*
*
dPKOiMiii
Dirts' fcewiii*, Usollxis, ksisstss IVzs-Dmt ¥t\&V UYtt D*x\ws\Ai)ft
KLKOXKO-FIATKD WJUU, QCTUKI, TOOU,
52 SAB OOOKINO BTOVKB i—XjKONIB VUmSBKB. 3BAMB fc WiLKWI,
BRADFORD*B WABB3MR MAOHIMRB, fctt., fco.
INSURE YOUR HEALTH! „
AGAINST ALL RISKS"
MB’S FLUID IUBIESIL
1 — G
ft Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the P e
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Di gea
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTR^ P
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, «tu, accompanying sack bottle)'
TAKE ONLY KRUB#
Sold in Bottles at Is 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each*
l O,
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION.
m COLLINS STREET EAST.
latMCrtM Capital
Pald-ap Capital ~ -
Vatal liMiu« Lut Half Year •
£549,151
£340,554
£509,534
mOSITS i In till to TWELTE KOITBS.
AVINGS' BANK BRANCH.
To F«mu who desire to putt by small sums of uncertain Amount, and
pfeo wlab to aware INTEREST upon such sums at a FAIR RATE, and for
JVERY DAY THAT THEIR DEPOSITS REMAIN IN THE BANE,
A 4» BRANGI offers the very best opportunity. Depositor* In this branch
4*aeiT* FJVM par cent, per annum upon their Daily Balance.
4KPII rns lor Borrowers. TESHJ LIIE&AL
m
L
1
PREMIER
BUILDING ASSOCIATION^
54 COLLINS
£25 Contributing Sha re * f
nt
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ANY TIME upon Bay" l6 1 ‘
Share Entrance Fee, and the Payments upon these
per Fortnight until such Payments, together with Comi )0
■ hold^ 0
amount to £25, whon that sum is paid over to their
red & a:
tribu
ted
The holders of the First Issue of these Shares receiv
1885, £26 Is. 9d., towards which sum they had Con
£l4 65., at the rate of Is. per Fortnight for 11 years-^^.
Bon. JOBS Sin.no, U.P., J.P.,
JAMBS Mill AMS, M.P., J.P.,
-----
V:-' -
THE
Federal Coffee
PALA ( '
COKNEK OF
DSLae-g: Colllzas Streets, Mellso'O. 1 ' 55 '
Containing 800 ROOMS, ia now replete with every convenience for the comfort of Visitor**
PRIVATE SUITES o! ROOMS, Magnificently Furnished'
• * fIjJV
SPECIAL LINING SALOON for LADIES, sumptuously furnished, with Cuisi ne
FLO0 fi -
LARGE PUBLIC DINING HALL « GROUND
With excellent Menu, presided over by an experienced Ch&f, assisted by a civil and obliging staff*
BILLIARD, SMOKING, READING and RECEPTION
r£>o
HOT, COLD and SHOWER BATHS.
NIGHT PORTER ALWAYS IN ATTENDANCE.
George Cohen
TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS PROMPTLY R
giai*


The Bulletin
Yol 9—No 458
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1888.
Price, 6d.
“Tom” Garrett.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tire Bulletin 0 ffl.ce Twenty Shillings
Sterling— which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
tan have T> i Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
nty The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
fhe National Australian Newspaper.
88 Australia for the 'Australians,”
tf'KOPBlKTORg s BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK...
4H.X PlTT-BTRKET, SYDNEY, NlW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
'Set- Annum ... ... ' £-1 0
Half-yearly ■ ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
cc oe addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
ARCHIBALD.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
L Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
V erse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing urith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
t&ngth, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
ysmmunications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
pit address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
aesire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
Oi such MSS.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1888.
The Cheap Impelled miner and the London
Syndicate.
We are frequently told that trades-unionfim
ia on its trial, that the workman’s combina-
tion to keep up the price of his labour has
proved a wicked and iniquitous effort to
wrong society and to rob the poor capitalist
of his Sunday beer. All the world over, the
workman has been standing up for his rights,
and in many instances he has secured such
substantial victories that hard-headed men
of the world of commerce foresee the day
when Capital will no 1< nger rule the destinies
of nation?. In a vain and spasmodic attempt
to infleeb and modify somewhat the result of
Labour’s triumphs, the subsidised press has
been set In motion and syndicated greed has
engaged in a laborious struggle to convince
the world that it is trembling on the edge of
a commercial catacljsm which will shake
society to its very centre. In New
South Wales the miners have entered
the lists with the mine owners, and
these latter, feeling their position very in-
secure, have commenced ti deal out threats
of a bumptious and dictatorial character
which, knowing as we do the democratic
temper of the Australian people, could not
be carried into practice without deluging the
country ia blood and convulsing s rniety in
the throes of a terrible internecine war.
• • «
At a recent meeting in London of the
Scottish and Australian Coal Mining Corr.-
puiy—which company, by the way, ownßthe
Lambton colliery in New South Wales—the
chairman of the board of directors announced
that trade had so greatly increased during
the second half of the year that he felt
justified in recommending a dividend ac the
rate of 15 per cent. The chairman then
proceeded to allude to the Newcastle
(N.S. W.) strike, and stated that the wages
paid to the miners were very high, tbat the
men r ought to gain the mastery over the
colliery owntrs, and that as a consequence
trade in Newcastle was wasting away. He
hoped tbat it won,ld not be necessary for die
company to import miners to tvorl. the Lamb-
ton colliery , but unless arrangements were
made for an immediate resumption of work
the company would certainly import men as
they were determined not to allow the miners’
union to have the mastery in the matter. It
is interesting to note that the remarks tf
the Chairman of the Scottish and Australian
Coal-Mining Company were loudly cheered
and that the report and balance-sheet were
adopted.
» * *
The historic Plug, son, the manufacturer,
in the immortal address to his workmen, is
made by Carlyle to say : “ Noble spinners !
we have gained a hundred thousand pounds,
which is mine ; the three-and-sixpence daily
teas yours. Adieu, drink my health with
this groat each, which I give you over and
above.” The Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Scottish and Australian
Coal Mining Company not only withholds
the groat ; hegrambles at the men by whose
labour he is enabled to declare 15 per cent.
He do as more than grumble ; he threatens
to displace them by deported “black-leg”
muscle, and his threats are “cheere d ” by
his brother spoilers. Just at present, too,
by the financial manipulation of the
Semitic Goschen, British bonds are bear-
ing only 2b per ctnt. Waggon loads of
money can be boirowed throughout the
length and breadth of the United Kingdom
at 3 per cent. The Scottish and Australian
Coal Mining Company has declared a divi-
dend of 15 per cent., five times the normal
rate of interest on safe investments, and
coal-shares have hitherto been as safe as the
Bank of England. Had the company de-
clared a dividend of 50 per cent, the outcry
against dear labour would have baen the
same, for is not the workman in the eyes of
the British capi'a’ist even as a weed ?
* * *
Cheap labour is the quicksand which
swallows up national prosperity. Cheap
labour is the parent of thrift, and thrife
should be unknown In a prosperous com-
munity. Prudence, finely /emarks the poet
Blake, is an ugly and ancient spinster, but
very rich withal, courted by Incapacity.
Blake might have added that she dwells
only in the land where Fre9 Competition is
a feverous frenzy and Want stalks at noon-
day. Cheap labour means natioi al damna-
tion. Cheap labour is cheap living and
emaciated workmen, struggling tradesmen,
paralj sei enterprise, a sordid press, a de-
graded people, starvation, misery, and white-
waistcoat a fencing in some dozen or so s’ave-
holders who batten on the universal woe.
Where wages are high and wealth widely
distributed, morality and independence are
the watchwords of Progress, money japidly
changes hands, stomachs are full and the
people happy. Nobody saves because Want
is afar off; nobody starves because muscle
cm be readily coined into food and clothes,
or the equivalent of feed and clothes. Cheap
labour in Australia means England and the
horrors of England transposed to this
southern land Introduce cheap labour, or
allow it to be introduced, workmen ! ar.d
you import all those hideous social con-
ditions which drove you from the country of
your birth—social conditions to escape from
which you courted voluntary exile and en-
dured the miseries of an expatriation that at
the time must have wrung your hearts almost
in twain.
Workmen of New South Wales ! you must
stand in this matter shoulder to shoulder!
The Government will not help you. When,
but recently, you sought to maintain the
price of your labour, the representative sys-
tem that rules through your sufferance and
by your votes endeavoured to bring you to
subjection with the assistance of military
coercion—swords were unsheathed ; work-
men who were pledged as volunteers to
defend their adopted country were insulted
by being deprived of their ammunition ;
armed police patrolled j our streets ; inoffen-
sive citizens were arrested, and the ordinary
forms of justice were perverted to obtain
their punishment for acta which the evidence
failed to show they had committed ; the
Press attempted to direct public opinion
against jou ; Nordenfeldt guns and iifl.es
loaded with ball-cartridge were brandished
in your faces, and the Premier of your
country went out of his way to prejudice
your case by the publication of hyper-judicial
opinion ; you were goaded into rebellion,
but nobly refused to rebel. Workmen, the
Government will not help you ! You stand
alone, but you must stand firm. The im-
ported “blackleg” must never put his foot on
Australian soil ! Never !
* * •
Only a few weeks ago the Judges of the
N.S. W. Supreme Court were set atmought by
Sir Henry Parkes ; the whole British nai it n
was defied, and the Governor of New South
Wales was threatened with deportation.
Why 1 Because the Government of the
moment sought popular favour by excluding
the Chinaman. To day a worse thiDg is
threatened, and the Government stand, and
will stand, supinely by. Only the other
night the New South Wales Premier, in
pathetic tones, depicted the sorrows of the
interesting “blackleg." The infirm wife and
the decrepit family were trotted out to point
a moral and adorn a tale. Ia your interests ?
No ! In the interests of the sweater, the
breath of whose nostrils is cheap labour.
The battle of the toiler, so hardly fought, so
dearly won, for your wives, for your chil-
dren, for generations yet unborn, is to be
relinquished, to be irretrievably lost, because
there are men too selfish to see any
interests but the interests of the in-
dividual. The man who cuts down the
price of his labour, hurts not himself alone,
not alone the infirm wife so frequently
dragged into the sickly prominence of parlia-
mentary debate, or the decrepit family to
which is given an unhealthy oratorical pub-
licity. He harts his fellows—all the work-
men in the couatry. He injures the small
and struggling tradesman. He wounds the
community in its most vital part. He in-
flects the prosperity cf the nation and draws
a post obit on futurity. The prospsrity of
any country, says Frederic Harrison,
never rises higher than the prosperity of its
working-class. The working-class is, after
all, the real people. Those who do no work
live on the labour of those who do work,
and they can, therefore, be easily dispensed
with. The country In which the life of the
workman is not worth living, is a counlry
not worth living in.
* * *
In the days of the past, when Parkes
was seeking vo'-es and voices, that wily
political acre bat x Vased the popular clamour
of the time against the importation of con-
victs. He put himself at the head of an
angry democratic agita’ijn and dared the
Government of the day to land any fresh
cargoes of Britain’s sentenced sin. The
attempt, he said, would be fol owed by a
rising which would sweep the bn.ad-arrow-
bramied victims of England s criminal
code into the sea. Yet, tj-day, were
the threat of the Scottish and Australian
Coal-Mining Company to seek practical ex-
position, this old-time rebel and ex-Chartist
would brandish a fire-lock in jour faces
and dare you to resent it, But you must
resent it, nevertheless The future of this
country depends upon you, and you must do
your duty, for io is your duty. Ttie men
who have undertaken to frame for you a
future, to give you laws, to fashion to your
use a system of society, have imported, with
all their hideous anomalies and heartless con-
tradictions, all their injustice and century-
built-up wrong, the modes and manners, the
faiths and fashions which to-day are making
of the old world a hell upon earth. To
escape from them you have come here.
Here you have formed the nucleus of a
nation ; here you have built a home. Keep
that nation vigorous ; keep your home pure
and clean !
* * #
Lst England take care of her own paupers !
Why should we offer her a solution, even
though it be but a temporary one, of her
social problem !■ We have our own troubles
to look after, cur own streets to sweep.
America has long bsen used as the rubbisn-
heap of Europe, until America has become
almost a second Europe. One such experi-
ment ought to bo enough for so small a world
as ours. Let us learn by other people’s
experience, else had it been better we were
born blind. America, too late, is a vakenir. g.
She is legislating against theE jropean dead-
beat as she recently legislated against the
Chinese dead beat. Let U 3 profit by her
example but with the additional advantage
of doing a day btfore the fair what she is
doing a day after the funeral ! We shall
never gei such another chance ! England
most bo taught that she has no right to shoit
her rubbiih on this continent. Too long
have we received her moral failures ; now
we are threatened with her financial and
industrial wrecks. Labour we can take
plenty of : the land is hungering for human
muscle ; but we will take it on our own terms
and in our own fashion, in our own goed
time. To make fat dividends for London
syndicates we refuse to allow our people to
become the bond-slaves of capitalised greed.
* * #
What is a fair day’s wage ]—As much as
ever a man can get. No, says Capital, as
little as he can live upon in such a style as
will enable him to make us profit without
leaving him anything over. If the workman
is satisfied with 5?. a day, beat him down to
2s. 6j. If 2s. 61. is enough, so is 2s. If he
will work for bread, try him with garbage.
Tf he can live tn air, pay him with kicks to
keep him from getting fat and to make him
spry. All the world over, wages tend to the
bare subsistence point—and below it. All
the world over, the capitalist demands as
much profit as he can wring out of sweating
toil. In dull times the percentage must be
kept up just as in prosperous times. How
can it be done ? Easily ! —cut down wages ;
reduce production; make the workman eat
less and the consumer pay more. What is a
fair percentage of profit ! Two-and-a half,
says Tory Goschen. Fifteen per cent.,
says the chairman of the board of directors
of the Scottish and Australian Coal-Mining
Company ; 50 per cent, if you can get it.
Two hundred billion per cent., if the Lord
is willing, bellows the capitalised dollar-
hunter throughout the eternal ages.
* * *
The trades-union has made the lot of the
workman endurable. It is the arm inter-
posed between the descending lash and the
trembling slave. It has grown and blos-
somed into a gigantic institution which bids
fair to overshadow the earth. Its future is
big with the workman’s fate. It must, how-
ever, gradually change its functions until
from a combination of workmen against the
tyranny of Capital it becomes a combination
of capitaliet - workmen who will employ
thlmsclres on the basis of co-operation. In
Australia, in New South Wales, at Lambton,
it has at present one stern duty to perform.
If the Scottish and Australian Coal Mining
Co. should carry its threat into execution
and deport to these shores the “black-leg”
labour of starving England, not one of those
miners must be permitted to land— not one.
To accomplish this it is hardly likely force
will ever be required. Moral suasion and
political organisation will be all sufficient.
If force should be necessary the Government
of New South Wales must look to it. They
have sown the wind ; they must be ready to
accept the whirlwind. But it is hardly likely
that the workingmen of these colonies will
be so blind to their own interest as to allow
the thing to grow to a practical attempt at the
realisation of such a dastard threat. How-
ever that may be, Australian workmen have
historic precedent to go upon—precedent
furnished by Sir Henry Parkes, poet and
ex Chartist, against convicts, against Chinese,
though not against a greater enemy to the
community—the “blackleg.” But precedent
or no precedent, the threat of the 15-per
cent, coal-grubbers of London •will never be
carried out ! We would not allow it ; the
miners would not allow it; the combined
workmen of New South Wales would not
allow it; Australian democracy would "hot
allow it !
Blanke, [?]llas "Magra[?]"
Dear lb u.KTiN, Tub appointment to the Go-
vernorship of Queensland of a man who earned his
promotion by doing the dirty work of the British
Government in Ireland does not seem to please
any party in Bananaland. The Irish, of
course, have a warm welcome in store for “ Mr.
Terence Macrath who has contrived to amuse
English readers and promote his own interests by
drawing his “Pictures from Ireland ” in black and
white, with a preference for the black. They also
remember that when the emerald isle was divided
into districts, by the late lame ate i Buckshot, for
the purposes of coercion, Mr. Hunky Blake, one of
the Divisional magistrates with autocratic powers,
shewed that the Venom which tipped the point of
many an anecdote of Terence Magkath was no
passing quality. On the contrary, that, with the
sunshine of Government favour, it had ripened
and matured into the correct thing in tyranny.
As for the “loyal” inhabitants of Queensland —
we must take the word “ loyal ” in its comparative
meaning when speaking of them —they are pretty
much disgusted that the tradition of the diplo-
matic service has been broken, and that a man is
being foisted upon them for having taken a
prominent pai-j in the gutter politics of
the mother-in-law o.untry. They think that
their colony i3 of sufficient importance to be
treated to a Governor who has had some training
for the billet, or that at least it is as worthy of one
with some pretensions to respectability. Instead
of that they find themselvis and their £5000 a year
(w itsh pickings) thrown as pay to a broken-down
understrapper from Dublin Castle. Hence their
tears.
* * *
But perhaps the most prominent position of all
is that assumed by the born and bred Banana-man
towards his new “boss.” It has come to his
knowledge that Blake is an Irish policeman, and
as he is strongly of opinion that Queensland has
already a too-generou3 supply of the ‘ Foorce,”
his disgust at the appointment is as unstinted
as the vocabulary in which he expresses it. If his
words could only be translated into action, and
the action bottled up until Terence made his bow
in Brisbane, it is highly probable that His Excel-
lency (save the mark!) would be very glad to return
forthwith to his modest billet (£1500) in Ireland
with the congenial occupation of evictiog the low
peasantry and burning their filthy homes. How-
ever, even with a liberal discount, it is certain
that there is still enough “unpleasant’ feeling
among all sorts in that condemned Northern
colony to make it very warm for Saynyer-
Constable Blake when he arrives. And
this is quite as it should be. No doubt the
Colonial Office thought they were giving
MTlwratth a pretty hard smack in the face by
sending him Terence Magrath for Governor in
return for the disagreeable hunks of humble pie
he made them swallow lately. If so they have
not learned yet how not to do it so far as “ ouah
kawlonies ” are concerned. Blake is just the man
all Australian Nationalists would like to see re-
presenting British Imperialism in their midst. He
is a very fungus growth of Imperialism and sprang
up suddenly during a time of popular misery
and despair in an out-of-the-way, dark, and
noiseme spot called Dublin Castle. The off-spring
of an old but degraded family he sought to nourish
his fortunes by doing work for the Ca3tle at which
t ie stomach of many an honest constable rebelled.
There are men in Australia now, worrying
through life and experiencing to the fullest how
hard is the struggle for existence, because they
refused to act towards their kindred with the
loathsome cruelty which Blake’s party adopted
and for which England is now givieg him his re-
ward. If there is a spark of manhood or a ray (f
reason in the wretched “colonies,” they will chafe
and fume at having to be the price for which the
vilest Imperial abominations are done.— Anti-
COERCION.
Rajah Inglis, the New South Wales Minister of
Public Instruction, has conceived another great
and glorious idea. It has always been understood
that the male teachers of his department are
forbidden to take an active part in any business
outside of their ordinary avocation. The tiger-
slayer has evidently gone one better still, however,
for some good-natured friend recently brought
under his notice the awful fact that the wife of a
certain public-school teacher up North was engaged
in the capacity of book-canvasser, and the lady
promptly received an intimation to the effect that
she must not engage in any business that could be
regarded as competibing with other persons in the
district as long as her husband was in the service
of the Department. This is a highly prudent
precedent, of course, for the woman who would
canvass for books to-day might canvass for
Indian tea to-morrow ; but the difficulty will be
to decide what comes under the head of competi-,
tion. The public school teacher’s wife who puts a
new ceiling to her husband’s pants may be said to
enter into competition with the local tailor ; if she
makes up her own dresses, she competes with the
local milliner ; if she raises “chookies,” she runs
against the interests of the poulterer and grocer;
and if she should be fortunate enough to add
triplets to the population she may be severely cen-
sured by the canny Minister for unduly competing
with other ladies who may be anxious to secure
Her Majesty’s liberal £3 trophy. Mr. Inglis’
ukase against a married woman earning anything
to lighten the burden of the poor pedagogue, her
husband, looks like a cheap electioneering dodgje
to catch the votes of the bourgeoisie. And it is
an insolent and pig-headed contravention of the
modern principle that a married woman is entitled
to a separate estate. The school-teachers of New
South Wales will get level with Inglis and Co. at
next general election.
The Senate of Sydney University expended £500,
interest on the Fisher bequest, on books for
various departments of their library last week.
Chemistry got £80, medicine £80, physics £80,
natural history £80, literature £80, and mental
philosophy and logic (together), £15. And yet
people wonder how it is that batter ways of
governing men are not adopted in New South
Wales! The human mind must ba understood
before it can be wisely ruled. If we feed a man
according to the above scale and put him on the
Bench we defy him to trust to any other formula
of amelioration than the rope and thong.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest best Snow-whits
Patbnt Uoli.ru Flour It is the greatest suooess of the
asre.


Foreign and colonial exchange
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Limited.
CIRCULAR QUAY (opposite custom house).
Directors t
R. H. REYNOLDS, Esy., Chamman.
E. C. V. BROUGHTON, Esq, ; T. JONES, E'^.
This Bank underbakes the exchange of money
of all nations in addition to all usual
business. •
L\XEEEKT-Dls’ -v to
3
3&v'- Ift l .'
' " .• i
T. §, Richardson Managing Birector.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lesson of the Presidential Election.
Grover Cleveland had two planks in his
platform but he wisely, as it turned out, only
showed one at a time. The first was official purity
and that floated him into office—the second was
Free-trade and that cost him his re-election to the
presidency of the United States. The American
people are heartily sick of official corruption and
are prepared to go great lengbhs to get rid of it,
but they are not prepared to sacrifice the com-
mercial system upon which the prosperity of their
count ry is built for the sake of it. On the con-
trary, the official “steal” which disgraces the
American political system, is indeed it does
our own, is a nuisance the Americans submit
to as the price of their power over the whole
bureaucracy. Every corrupt official knows that
he plunders the country with a rope round his
neck and that the nexb political charge may not
only displace him but call him to a severe account.
When Gkoveh Cleveland pinned himself to the
abolition of official corruption he became for the
time the most popular politician in the United
States, and though the Democratic party which
he headed was the weaker, he went in with flying
colours. When he announced himself resolved
upon a revision of the tariff he settled his own
business for ever. The American view of his
programme may be summed up in the nursery
rhyme which says
It's better to have oiumbs for the mioe to steal
Than to have no crumbs at all.
But for her tariff, American industry, which even
now has all she can do to absorb the flood of cheap
labour which debouches upon her shores from
Ireland, England, Germany, Sweden, and Den-
mark, would be swept out of existence. As it is
tire average wages of the American artisan are
nearly twice those of his British competitor. The
skilled English mechanic averages 31s, per week
wages if he can get a job—which greatly depends
upon his moral character, i.e., whether he attends
the same Little Bethel that is patronised by his
boss. The American mechanic averages ■Ms. fid.
per week in New York and 50s fid. in Chicago,
and no one cares the odd fid. what his moral
character may be. Taking all the industries of the
country into consideration, male adult labour's
average earnings in America are 28s. per week,
and in England male adult labour has to be satis-
fied with an average of less than half the sum, or
12s. fid. per week. It is not, therefore, wonderful
that GhoveK Cleveland lost his election. The
Americans have a surplus .revenue of 28
millions. Grover Cleveland would have had
them divide it between the English and the
Germans in the shape of a remission of
Customs duties 5 Harrison will counsel them to
keep it at home and divide it among their own
people by remitting internal taxes. The victory
of Cleveland would have meant the revival of
British trade and the downfall of American
industry. The victory of Harrison means that
American men will be able to earn food for their
families and that England must look after her-
self. That is the lesson of the Presidential
election, and that is the reason why our Freetrade
orators hold their tongues about it. Had Cleve-
land been re-elected we should have had oceans
of eloquence poured upon us to convince us that
“ the creature Protection’,’ was defeated in her
stronghold. As it is, all our Freetrade orators
could do would be to convince us that Freetrade
and official corruption are proved in New South
Wales to be quite as compatible with eacli other
as Protection and official corruption have shown
themselves to be in America, and that is a lesson
which, for obvious reasons, they do not care to
inculcate.
♦
“ Protestantism First."
NOYKIM isEfi sth and the preservation of that
British Constitution—which has for so many ages
slowly broadened down from precedent to prece-
dent—from the only skyward influence that ever
offered to give it a hoist in the direction of heaven —
are always seized upon by the yellow pup of a trans-
ported Boyne for a super-sonorous snarl. Gun-
powder treason and Orange gas seem to be cor-
relative. The one generates the other, and this
year no doubt on account of the impending
drought and the increasing deficit —the snarl was
a double-barrelled one. The Rev. W. S. Frackel-
ton spread himself on the recent occasion, and won-
dered why Mr. Dai,ley was not righteous even as
he, Frackelton, was righteous, and then he swung
round to remark that he intended to tell the
wicked, worldly Government of New South Wales
—which, by the way, the L.O.L. is never abso-
lutely sure of having on sectarian toast - that
“ once and for all they would vote for Protestant-
ism first.” Good, Frackleton, and so say we,
but you don’t mean what you say, and we do.
“Protestantism first! ” What does it mean?—
Sectarian bigotry, century-lived hate and all uu-
chaiitableness, low, calculating, Christless cunning,
political knavery, underground engineering and
caucus dodgery, distrust of one’s fellows, lies,
misrepresentation, and all the evil that hangs like
a huge tin-can from the tail of pitiful yellow
pup who yelps and snarls and howls in an “h”-
less dialect at the heels of progress and cannot even
bark grammatically ! Is this Protestantism ? It
may be, according to the man of quarantine-
advocacy, the Frackelton of Australasian in-
tolerance —not according to that first of free-
thinkers and free-fighters who loved woman and
wine and song and took a foremost place in front
of the front rank of the advance army of
thought, and laid about him sturdily in
the cause of progress and reason. Old
Luther was the Tyndall, the Spencer, the Max
Nordau, the Darwin, the wholesale iconoclast of
his day. He destroyed what he considered to be
shams, and rehabilitate d on its throne that Reason
of man's which bad been too many centuries de-
posed by Faith. With Luther, Protestantism
meant being ahead of your period—a hundred
years ahead. With Frackelton, Protestantism
means lagging in th-i rtar t joir period—a
hundred years a-rear. “Onw aid!’ shouted Luther,
“ look towards the dawn !” “Backvaid !” screams
Frackelton, “thesun has set, look behind you !”
“ Toe Truth ! the Truth !” cry all the brave Pro-
testants of Science and Progress, “ no matter how
revolting or mul-searing it may be, let us have
only the Truth.” “Remember Boyne !” shriek
the renegade advocates of what they are pleased
to term Protestantism, “ and to Hell with the
Pope!’’
The Xeiv Vice-Regal Policeman.
The Colonial Office in London has risen in its
dignity to resent the demand made by Premier
MM I, wraith for a share in the appointment of the
new Governor, of Queensland. The dignity of a
British “ department ” is a huge and awful thing,
and the departmental dignity has been damaged.
The feelings of the Secretary have also been hurt
and his moral corns have been trodden upon.
The appointment, of Sir Henry-Blake is the
response of the Imperial Government to the
reasonable demand put forward by a democratic
community that it should have some voice in the
selection of an officer who is paid out of the
national treasury to be a shining stumbling-block
in the path of national progress, and the question
to be decided is whether Queensland will accept
this dull mediocre Tory as the ideal leader of the
young nation of the North. The past record of
Governor Bi.akk stamps him as a fifth-rate failure
of the deepest dye, and his promotion seems to be
intended merely as a declaration in practical form
that the Secretary of State for the colonies “ will
do as he darned well likes.” Iti his earli°r days
Blake was a boss policeman in the bogs of his
native land, where he attended to the business of
running down his brother Irishmen when they
wanted to have a band in the management of their
own affairs. From this position he rose through
the exertions of his brother in-law, who happens
to be a duke, to the office of police-magistrate,
and for some years he sat on the bench and sent
the sons of the soil to gaol when they assumed a
menacing attitude on account of the rint. Then
the duke gave him another shunt, and he assumed
the Governorship of the Bahamas. He super-
intended the affairs of these scattered rocks in a
manner which brought the public anathema down
on his head, and he retired from his next billet—
in Newfoundland —with the derision of that land
of fogs and cod-fish piled on top of the other
malediction. From first to last, in fact, the
record of Governor Blake shows him to be an
unduly elevated policeman who, if left to rely
solely on his own merits, would speedily drift
back into the “cop ” from which he sprung, and
his instincts are still those of the ordinary or
garden constable who drifts round to the back-
door in pursuit of pie. His appointment to the
Governorship of the colony which leads the way
towards republicanism and independence, and
which promises to be the first to shake off British
influence and dispense with Governors for all
time, is a joke of such stupendous dimensions
that it requires consideration. If Queensland
is—as the British Tory fondly hopes —to be re-
tained even for a little time longer as an integral
portion of the empire, its future Governors must
be men of brilliant genius who can tack between
conflicting parties and steer a steady course
through every storm ; the occasion is one which
demands a statesman of the highest order, and
the Colonial Office fills the gap with a glorified
policeman. The first result of this policy has
been to compel a practical fusion between the
opposing factions in the Queensland Assembly.
Lord KnutsForp’h despatch, in which he main-
tains the old Tory doctrine that the people of
the colonies must lie low and accept any kind of
Governor which it pleases Providence to inflict
upon them, was considered by a council of two
composed of MTlwraith and Griffith, and the
reply, in which the Queensland Government ex-
pressed its indignation at the appointment of the
gilt and varnished constable to the vice regal
office, was drawn up jointly by the two leaders of
popular sentiment in the northern colony. Sir
Samuel Griffith’s action means the practical
abolition of the decaying party of “loyalty”
as a poli'ical power in the North, and if
Governor Blake ever actually assumes office he
will be a lonely satrap abandoned by all save
that occasional flunkey whom we have always
with us. The feebleness of the instruments with
which the battle of Imperialism is being fought in
Queensland is a solemn commentary on the in-
tellectual capacity and resources of the men who
use them to support the cause of British Toryism.
Musorave and Wright- the costly pair of broken
reeds who staked their dignity on a question of
salary in advance and a problem concerning two
pairs of boots—were alike miserable failures, and
Governor Blake— the decorated “slop” who is
related to a duke —has failed before the ink on his
commission had time to dry. With him, however,
political ruin is evidently chronic. A man whose
temperament is such as to call down upon him the
curee of even the peaceful Bahamas, s bands a fair
chance of being received with violence when he
endeavours to stem the fiery current of Queensland
democracy.
♦
Tlic Toymakcr on Ills Brother Arti/.uns.
“Search the annals of the world in ancient and
modern times in Europe or America and you will
never find a people so well off that a large body of
them can refuse 10s. a day of eight hours labour ;
but that is what has happened in this country.”
These are wise words from the lips of a renegade
representative of the masses in the New South
Wales Parliament. And then he goes on not
satisfied with having opened his case with a false-
hood —he goes on to execrate the white slave at
Newcastle or elsewhere, who, combined with his
brothers, should ever dare to hope for a better
state of things than he has read of, forsooth, in
“ancient or modern times 1” Coming from the
pale-faced, kid-gloved descendant of ages of so-
called “Noble Ancestors,” we of this New South
World might possibly find .time to ridicule such
statements. Emanating from the lips of a man
whose only excuse for being in the Parliament of
his country is that he was put there by the
labourers and ar biz a ns thereof, the utterance
quoted is far beyond the sublimest realms of
sarcasm.
4.
A Very Civil Servant
No wonder Treasurer Burns hesitated to lay
upon the table of the New South Wales Assembly
the papers on “ Crown Lands, Hornsby,” which
were reluctantly dragged out of him on Thursday,
for a perusal of those documents shows that Minis-
terial wreng-doing has had the effect of actually
blinding the servants of the Crown to the dif-
ference between right and wrong. The earlier re-
ports from Messrs. J. W. Peeking and Gordon
simply describe that which has often before been
described, namely, the improvem°nt made on the
estate of Messrs. Burns, Withers, and Smith,
M.sP., at the public expense, by utilising the
labour of the unemployed in grubbing and clear-
ing roads through the lands owned by those
gentlemen. Mr. W. C. Bennett, however, is not
satisfied merely to describe the process whereby
the thing was worked. He boldly attempts to
justify it. He says:
Had this land been reserved Crown lands not to be sold,
all the roads would have been desirable .... And I
fail to see why the possession of the property by private
individuals should be a bar to necessary improvements
because they incidentally enhance its value.
Bravo, Bennett ! You fail to see why public
money should not be used to improve private
property. You fail to see why the owners of
private property should be left to do it themselves.
You fail to see that if these roads “enhance the
value” of “the property of private individuals,”
as they assuredly do, that private individuals
would have made them for themselves if there bad
not been obsequious Government servants to
remember that these private individuals were
public men, members of Parliament, Ministers
and future Ministers—persons worth toadying.
You have arrived at the right point of
official blindness, doar sir, and have
proved yourself so far invaluable. Bub the
mistake you have made is in openly writing
down a description of what you have failed to see.
That is the foolish part of the business. To be
blind is a valuable qualification for office, pro-
vided you say nothing about it, but swear all the
time that you see clearly. Had you said, for in-
stance, that the road a quarter of a mile off, which
did belong bo Government and did give access to
the Crown lands, and was sufficient for its pur-
pose, and was bartered away by the Government
to those same “private individuals” for permis-
sion to txptnd public funds on the improvement
of their property-had you said that this road a
quarter of a mile off was too distant for the
delicate people who buy unimproved Crown lands
to travel, you would have been invaluable.
♦
The Leasing of the X.S.W. Tramways.
At no very distant date, the heterogeneous collec-
tion of pawnbrokers, rum-sellers, and chronic in-
solvents who assemble in Macquarie - street,
Sydney, to curse and throttle each other, may be
called upon to decide whether the snorting,
double-decked, bloodthirsty street railways of
Sydney shall pass from the possession of the
people into that of the White Waistcoab party.
This affair [threatens to mark the initiation in
New South Wa!e3 of the great struggle against
Monopoly, which may eventually lead to
the reconstruction of the “ social fabric.”
Once let the system take root in Australia
and soon its monstrous growth will over-run the
whole continent: the railways and telegraphs, the
telephones, tramways, and places of public amuse-
ment will slide from the feeble grasp of the
People into the capacious maw of capitalists who
will coalesce to raise freights and fares and thus
build palaces and hang their women with dia-
monds on money wrung from the pockets of the
stupid and unthinking people who only work.
What is to prevent at the present juncbure a syn-
dicate, which is wealthy and daring enough bo
purchase the cumbrous juggernauts that poison
the atmosphere of Sydney, from endeavouring to
bias the votes of the men who are to decide
the question, at so much per vote ? Of course we
are aware that the Government is composed of
men who have repeatedly proved the purity of their
motives and the unselfishness of their principles.
We would hardly care to assert that if the neces-
sity for a second Judas should arise he would be
found in the ranks of the New South Wales
Legislative Assembly, for we have had evi-
dences in the past that no member of Parlia-
ment would ever take a bribe—though he might
unthinkingly accept a present at a time which,
being honest and truthful at heart, he would be
ready to subsequently admit was suspicious and
ill-chosen. The tramways of Sydney, under the
existing system, are as ugly and inconvenient as
they can well be; but still they are the property
of the people, and a Government which has shown
its incapacity to create and sustain a system, ex-
cept as an eyesore, and at a dead loss to an im-
poverished exchequer, has no right therefore to
pawn the property of the people or make it a
source of emolument bo a horde of rapacious
monopolists. This is a subject of vital import-
ance to the people of New South Wales and of
Australia, and it will decide whether Monopoly, the
born foe bo all liberty, social and political, is to ob-
tain a foothold in a land already groaning be-
neath the weight of abuses, introduced coevally
witn the bond-slave system of assigned convict
servants.
The Clergy on Gambling.
At a somewhat incongruous gathering of repre-
sentatives of piety and politics, held at Melbourne
recently, resolutions were passed deprecating the
prevalence of gambling, and the Government
was urged to refuse postal and telegraphic
facilities for betting purposes, while the authorities
were also asked to make the publication of all
betting transactions a misdemeanour. The Bul-
letin opines that after such an emphatic expres-
sion of opinion from the assembled worth of Vic-
toria, that papers like the S. M. Herald and the
Argus will consider it their duty to suspend the
publication of reports of race-meetings, betting-
market quotations, &c. Of course, when we say
that we believe they will do this, we are writing
in a fine vein of sarcasm, well knowing
that, with these papers, when it really come 3 to
a tug-of-war between the God of Bethel and the
God of Mammon, the last-named is a “dead bird ”
everytime. At the gathering to which we have
referred the Rev. W. H. Fitchetjc editor, by the
way, of the Melbourne Daily Telegraph— might
have been heard Cassandra-like “prognosticating
woe” on the colonials because of their wicked
partiality for having their “little bit” on “a sure
thing,” and we are told that he quoted a number
of statistics proving the immense disproportion
of the racing provision and racecourses as compared
with the population of the colony. This we admit.
When we remember that there are some hundreds
of racing clubs in these colonies; that each of
them holds two or more races in a year, and that
some of them race almost once a month ; that
scarce a week passes that some new course is not
opened; that nearly every barber’s shop bas it 3
totalizator; that almost every tobacconist lays the
odds; that some of the largest streets in our
large cities are filled with Chinese gambling
shops where fan-tan and opium smoking hold un-
checked sway; that in Sydney big professional
pedestrian gatherings are held nearly every week ;
that almost every other man you know keeps a
pad. in training chained up in his back yard, just
as one would keep a bull-pup; that go where
you will you meat the same class of young men
of the professional pedestrian-caw-larrikin type
with the same curly brimmed hats, the same cut-
away coats, the same tight pants, the same boots
with heels right under the instep, and, worst of all,
with the same depraved minds—dwelling ex-
clusively on the one absorbing subject of gamb-
ling — when we consider all these things, we
wonder how it is four-fifths of our population
manage to keep out of gaol.
Judges or Partisans?
The demoralising character of the New South
Wales criminal code is clearly shown by its in-
fluence on many of the dignitaries who are its ad-
ministrators. These individuals seem to be in-
capable of maintaining a calm, judicial aspect
when human lives are at stake or a decision deal-
ing with the conflicting interests of the monopolist
and producer is required. After the Crown had
removed some of the alleged Northumberland
rioters for trial toMaitland, which (rial was delayed
by every possible means, while bail was altogether
refused, the failure to secure a conviction so
annoyed the presiding judge, Mr, W. J. Foster,
that, abandoning all semblance of hi 3 judicial de-
meanour, he declared, with all the appearance of
a partisan, that, in order to secure convictions in
future, it would be necessary to change the venue
to Sydney At Deniliquin, recently, Judge Win-
deyer insulted a jury tor failing to return a
verdict in accordance with his desires. Some days
later, at Wagga Wagga, the same uncouth func-
tionary, while sentencing the Union shearers, had
the bad taste to compliment the jury on thsir
decision, which, he said, was in marked contrast to
that of the Deniliquinites whose conduct was
most reprehensible Now if the system of trial by
jury be considered as a safeguard against despot-
ism, a vehicle for the expression of public opinion,
and one of the bulwarks of democracy, it is surely
necessary that jurors should be defended from the
insults of politically-appointed officials, who,
a,rmed with a power they are personally ill-quali
fied to wield, with instincts which too often seem
to be wholly on the side of the dominant class,
assume in court utterly unjudicial attitudes. Such
conduct not only dims the calm serenity of atmos-
phere encircling the bench, but is likely to defeat
the purpose of trial by jury through the coercion
of pliant jurors by biassed arbitrators.
The V» liitecliapel Murders.
Had the victims of the Whitechapel murders
belonged to the superior classes the whole
resources of England would have been pledged
to avenge them. As it is, as they belonged to
that great army of starvation which seeks in daily
infamy the means of daily bread, the Home
Office is tranquilly passive and the Treasury is
quietly inaccessible. The city police authorities
are aroused and the people of the metropolis
are indignant; but Government, always Con-
servative in administration, no matter who may
be in office, sees no reason for action. Yet
in the bare fact that such lives are possible
lies an indictment which should make the official
world tremble and affright the superior people
officialism represents. For these outcast women
who have been slaughtered in the purlieus of a
city cf palaces are not the only sacrifices to
London’s greatness. Her growth is manured
with the blood of the wretched, and the roots of
her prosperity are mulched with crushed
humanity. Officialism tries to trample misery
out of sight, and wealth devotes to the attempt to
hide it much of the means which should be used
for its alleviation. There is a conspiracy to keep
it invisible which few travellers penetrate and
many residents never suspect. Guarded gates
and portly beadles shut it from the squares,
and the police, with a continual “ move
od,” chevy it from the highways, and
well-paid sentries beat it back when it
attempts to excite sympathy and implore assis-
tance. When you, the Australian visitor to Lon-
don, turn into one of Si’iEKS and Pond’s big Lon-
don restaurants, do you ever guess why those
gigantic servants stand in livery at the door ?
They are to prevent the famine-struck beggar from
beseeching your well-fed Lordship to give him a
penny when you contemplate reviving yourself
with a meal; to drive him off when lie tries to
peer through the plateglass at your plenty, lest
his. wolfish eye 3 and famished face should spoil
your appetite and limit your expenditure. Do
you know why lofty gates enclose the squares
and streets and terraces that call the J)ukp of
Bedford owner ; that belong to the famous
Sir Henry Doughty Ties borne, to Lord
Portman or the Duke of Portland? It it so
keep the sores of L i/.ARUS from the sight of Dives
that those gates arise. Did you ever wonder why
the sturdy policeman breaks his stately gait now
and then to dodge and dash after the rat-like
ragamuffins that scuffle and scuttle away down
byways and back lanes at his approach ? It is to
keep them oat of sight, that’s all: to drive them
to such a distance that their rags shall not come
between the wind and your nob lity. There are
a quarter of a million of paupers in London in whom
the official dole barely keeps the breath of life
alive. There are 300,000 people out of work in
London who never know where their next meal
will come from, nor where they will lay their
heads at night. There are two millions of men,
women, and children in London whose utmost
struggles barely buy them food enough to keep
them on that border line which separates a life
of continual starvation from death by famine out-
right. Upon this great substructure of misery
are founded the fortunes of Freetrade commerce and
unprotected manufactures engineered by sweaters ;
and from beneath this substructure is squeezed
the human refuse upon which the Whitechapel
murderer or murderers have played their ferocious
tricks. These were not gilded Traviatas, splen
did in velvet and shining with jewels. No ' The
last poor, murdered wretch was identified by the
pawn-ticket of her protector’s undershirt found
upon her person. He, poor brute, had pawned
his boots to buy the last meal they had shared
together, and she bad sallied out to te c k in sin
the means for their next repast In sin ! Who e
is the sin ? Is it the sin of poverty clutching at
existence, or of wealth living by the premedi-
tated creation of misery ? As the Faubourg
St. Germain emptied itself upon Versailles
to, some day, will Horrible London empty
itself upon the West End Then, when
fair women find scant mercy, and gentle
heads are bowed in blood, some daughter of the
people will speak in the vengeful spirit of Thkrksk
Defarge : “We have seen these things done to
our women, we mothers and wives and sisters of
the poor, and no one heeded our misery. Why
should not your women suffer, and why should we
heed your downfall ? What is your wretchedness
more than ours ?”
The S. M. Herald defends a statement made in,
one of its late leading articles by saying that “the
same thing has been said hundreds of times
before. ” Without looking up the statement, the.
defence may bs taken as thoroughly honest. Un- -
less a sentiment or opinion had run the gauntlet
of hundreds of forms of publicity it would be
looked on as too revolutionary for approvedser-
vice in the Herald’s leading columns. In fact,
the firat thing that paper would have felt bound
to do with anything not a hundred times ac-
credited would be, if it had to touch it at all, to
condemn ib as a doctrine fraught with incalculable
danger to society. But, all the same, it strikes
the average healthy mind that it is unfair to offer
it in a pretentious leading article a thing “ which
has been said hundreds of times before.”


The grandeur of scenery seen from Fred. Wil
ken’s Beaconsfield House Hotel is equal to the
Blue Mountains, being 1200 ft. above sea-level.
N.B,—Only two hours from Melbourne.
JOHN M'EWAN & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
Land and Estate Agents,
Business Brokers c& Partnership Agents,
41 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
45-page List Country Properties, Farms, Grazing
Properties, &c., &c.
35-page List Melbourne and Suburban Properties, Villas,
Mansions, Cottages, Allotments, &c. ’
Printed List of Businesses for Sale issued Daily.
All Lists posted F ree on application.
CORREPONDENCE
“ Miles ” (Rochester, Vic.): Please don’t send
us any more Items like the last. Take a rest “ R.S.”
(Sydney): You may be original but we don’t think your
poem i 5....“ Nemo ” : Held over for further contempla-
tion “J. H. Molyneux”: Your half-ton of rhyme re
the alien Chinee person has many good points, but it is
woefully bumpy in construction. We will revise it and
smooth it out when the cold weather comes 0n...“ A.N.”:
We respeotfully refuse to “ give a list of all allowances
from the Queen downwards.” This is a newspaper—not
a book in 18 volumes, and we decline to supply ljcwt.
of figures to please anybody.. ..“T.S.” (Sydney): There
is a jagged look about your poem which vexes u 5....“ E.
M'Lennan” (’Frisco): Look up Heaton’s “Dictionary of
Dates” for information re Gardiner....“C.W.”: Your
monody on the memory of Dailey would not disgrace the
"In Memoriam" columns of the Noozh. Nothing so
muoh resembles the rhythm of the production as the
struggling of a fat man over newly-laid road - metal,
unless, perhaps, the stumblings of a timber-toed inebriate
up wooden stairs. Poor Dailey ! You allude to him as
“Our Will.” The name of “Will ”is enough to kill any-
body. Nobody on earth was ever known to call Mr. Dailey
“Will,’’and even his oldest friend rarely called him “Billy.”
“Democrat Junior ”: First-class Walter Park”:
Those women who object to smoking in the Inner Domain
probably do not objeot so much to the tobacco-pipe as to
the expeotorating larrikin who is often attached thereto.
....“ Zero ” : If drink were abolished people would not be
happy. Look at Knapp. He never drinks, yet he is always
writing to the papers...." E. Leston ” : We are no more
in favour of allowing the Salvationists to torture the
publio with wind-instruments and sheepskin than we are
in favour of allowing the orthodox parson to jangle his
bell on Sunday morning. It is just as bad to annoy a
man with hideous noises as it is to kick him in the
eye. However, we don’t want to see the Army in gaol.
Let the police arrest the big drum ; that is the vital point...
“A Bit of a Liar Myself” (Tumut): Your contribution,
“ Awful Stretchers,” to hand. It certainly indicates
an elastio conscience...." Henry S. Dowman ” : If we can
sweat your par. down to something under fist, we will
utilise it... .“Native Bear ”: If you will write to J. A. 8,,
Box 2, Newtown Post-office, he will give you the required
information—“ Forester” (Bathurst): Your 26 verses
are now keeping each other warm in the w.p.b “J.
M'Gee ” (Ipswich, Q ) : Your verses have a good 18-carat
ring about them, but “gliiing up” doesn’t rhyme with
" wide enough,” nor “ chase ” with “ state.” We will try
to polish ’em up, however.. “ John Collins”: Yes, it pay s..
“A.W.S.”: Months ago The Bulletin drew' attention to
the employment at the public expense of the “unem-
ployed ” on Treasurer Burns’ private estate at Hornsby...
“PEG.”: Even the knowledge that you are a kindred
spirit cannot induoe us to print those verses... .“Grit ’:
You virtually ask us to calculate the incalculable. When
a man starts to estimate “ the amount of speculators' and
mine-owners’ profits which arise from the increased value
of other people’s land and the capital expended thereon,”
he attacks a problem compared to which the mystery 1 1
the hen and a half that laid an egg and a half is absolutely
nowhere....“ Publica n” : No doubt there may be places
in N.S. Wales where there exist 10 hotels to supply a
population of 175 drinking adults, but we have never
struck a locality whioh ran things so strong as this
Wnere is the plaoe, anyhow?.. ..“B.B.B.” (Brisbane)-
Just hearken to a sample stanza :
For you see these great baronials
When they’re shunted off out here,
They fleeoe us poor colonials
Of big salaries each year.
....“ N C.” (Newtown): Your friends poetry is horrible
beyond all earthly comparison, and his sketches are in-
human in their awful vilsness.. . “ Warra ”: No, but we
believe that Charles Warner has purchased the Australian
rights of “Captain Swift.”....“Fireplace”: Tnata just
where those verses have gone to “8.5.”: Yes done
before he wenb....“StockweU”: A little too blue ...
“ J.H.” (Sydney): The first 22 pages of your poem are
really good, bus it fails off a lot in the last 12,728 lints
and this makes us feel inclined to hesitate for upwards of
three months before we publish it “A. Ward”:
Effusion on the eight hoars’ question has been rent asunder
and dropped on to the floor “ Dash Dot, Dash Dot ” :
Your. story impresses us favourably, and when we have
read it several more times we may possibly begin to com-
prehend what it is about.... “Anon” : Your poem on the
Hairy Bismarck’s Little Boy is over-lively, but much to the
point, nevertheless. Send it along to the old man, who
dearly loves a joke of that sort.... “Blighted”: Will be used
soon, but we can make no promise as to the others.
“Denny”: In your attempt to scratch the Irish back
with the quill of flattery re the refusal of an Irishman to
quit loading small coal at the request of the hewers, you
are only obeying very parochial instincts. The chief
feature of the Irish race, their intense nationality, blinds
them to the fact that toilers in other lands besides that of
their birth are suffering under oruel injustices. So pur-
blind in this regard is the ordinary Irishman that in the
British Parliament the Home Rule party have repeatedly
voted against measures introduced for the benefit of the
toilers in England. Precisely the same thing has occurred
inN.S.W ; men have actually come hot from meetings where
large sums were subscribed to assist the Irish Land League
for the purpose of speaking against local measures em-
bodying the very principles the League is struggling for.
Miohael Davitt seems to be almost the only eminent
Irishman who is sufficiently cosmopolitan to recognise
that the Irish Land Question affects the whole civilised
world. Church rule and centuries of oppression have
somewhat narrowed the Irish mental horizon ; with hap-
pier days they will assuredly lose that insular and racial
political selfishness which is their most deplorable charac-
teristic. That their intelligent leaders, journalists and
representatives, continually pander to this weakness is
most unfortunate.... “ G.C.W.” (West Melb.): Thanks.
“Alpbard”: Received. Will consider “ P.K.” (Kar-
umba, Q.): Thanks.. ..“Lieutenant” : As regards your
question, “If a person be coarse, is he not necessarily
vulgar, too ? And if the same person be vulgar, is he not
coarse also 1 ” we are of opinion that the person in ques-
tion is beastly “C.C.”: But the end of the matter
will simply be that if England sends Mr. Blake to govern
Queensland Mr. Blake won’t get paid. ..“Louisa Parsons ’
(Wentworth, N.S.W.): Please write to Editor of Lloyd’s
Newspaper, London, mentioning The Bulletin and en-
closing threepence for postage. Lloyd's will notify that
you have been heard from and will forward to your rela-
tives any letter which you may address to their (the
newspaper’s) care.... “ K.N.” (Wallendbeen): We haven’t
received the paper. Please cut out extract and send it
under cover....“M. Carter”: We published the late
Kong Meng’s likeness because Kong was a very good fel-
low and in many respects an example of what a merchant
should be. But should it please you to think that no
Chinaman can possibly be a man, then you are welcome
to assume that we published Kong Meng's likeness in
order to prove that even a deoent Cninaman is a ghastly
thing to look at...“ An Advanced Irish Democrat ” (North
Queensland): We quite agree with you; but no good end
would be served by inserting your letter “ Thos
O’Donnell ”: Received..: “H. Arnold” (Berwick, Vic ) •
What are you giving us?.. ..“Buttons”: Thanks for
clipping. We cannot indulge the vanity of the character
you mention".. “ Possum ”: Ideas good enough, but
your metre feels like driving [over cobble-stones. “H.
J. M'C.”: To hand,
The Referee.
Four times in the last five years has the
Melbourne Cup winner previously finished first or
second for the Stakes. Three times out of those
four a couple of horses placed in the Saturday’s
race have also been placed in the Cup, the Stakes
runner-up pulling off the big event on each occa-
sion. As a further coincidence, we find Dunlop
and Mentor successively carrying the same
weight, under similar conditions, in their respec-
tive years. And we also find that the Melbourne
Suortsman— a journal peculiarly fatal to wretched
backers—went out of its way to show the “ unre-
liability of all Melbourne Stakes form.” The
“sporting” Mokanna who perpetrated this per-
version of real facts subsequently selected six
horses out of the 12 that stood any paper-show of
winning the Cup. Not one of the Prophet’s half-
dozen struggled into either of the first four places!
There are not many more genuine sports-
men in Australia than Mr. T. L. West, the “ up-
country ” owner of Tradition. In preference to
making the dark ’un a <,: dead bird ” for a sequence
[?]LETRIG PHOTO-ENG, [?]., SBRIDGE-ST SYDNEY
MISS ADELAIDE DETCHON.
of minor handicaps, Mr. West pluckily went out-
right for the two biggest events of the year.
After the Caulfield Cup he —although a compara-
tively poor man—declined several offers for his
horse. He stuck to his own method of training,
and himself gave Tradition an occasional breather.
Finally, Mr. West wouldn’t have his champion
spurred home, not even for a Melbourne Cup, and
Tradition came back to scale without a scratch on
him. But when a good old-fashioned horse is run
in good old-fashioned style it is described nowa-
days as a “ sensational animal.” (N.B.—Tradition
was sold by auction on Monday last and realised
3050 guineas.)
* * *
Many of the “best” Melbourne ladies
avoided the Cup for fear of an unholy push, but
the whole sex—both sexes, in fact—conspired to
bring off the most successful Oaks Day ever
enjoyed by the V.R.C. The attendance was
nearly up to average Derby form, for there were,
say, 20,000 people on the ground. But as the
Government House party consisted entirely of
men, who stuck strictly to business, sassiety did
not do the Lawn with much ardour. Neither was
the great Exhibition Cup Day—newspaper reports
notwithstanding— at all remarkable in this respect.
The Lawn was at no time thronged, nor were the
bulk of the promenaders skilfully dressed. To
sum up the show, it was more remarkable for
quantity than quality.
• • *
Twenty-eight horses ran for the Melbourne
Cup, and the books, at starting prices, could
get round ”by laying eleven of them. It is only
fair to state, however, that most of the seventeen
possible “ skinners ” had no chance of winning
except through a visitation of Heaven.
• * *
The public generally had a pretty fair time
at Flemington on Oaks day and the “ cracks ” for
the time being ran well up to form. That Carbine
could canter away from the boss Maribyrnong Plate
horses in the Flying Stakes only goes to prove »he
two-year-olds’ lack of eicellence, because former
years have produced youngsters equal to lowering
such performers as Cranbrook or Malua, when
Mr. Inglis’s horse was at his best. A faint aroma
of greatness always hangs about the Oaks, yet
there was little real interest attaching to this
year’s race, apart from its title. Pearlshell had
beaten Volley over the same distance on two
previous occasions recently. She looked e qual to
doing it again. O’Brien rode the New Zealand
mar a as though he had a soft thing and she ran
up to expectations. As regards the Mentor-Cy-
clops dead-heat for the Royal Park Stakes there
is no question that Mr. Cook’s horse had the Cup
winner settled at the finish, a result which was
strictly according to calendar. Mentor was giving
away eight pounds more than in the Cup, and,
furthermore, he was giving Cyclops a long start.
The one-eyed gentleman slipped his field when
they were going at half speed, and the effort of
catching and passing the leader so told on Mentor
that he dropped off a little at the critical moment
when Cyclops was experiencing a second coming.
In estimating the form of these two tough oppo-
nents it should he remembered that Mentor is only
a big little horse, to whom a few pounds of Weight
over nine stone would make more difference than
to Cyclops.
* * #
The Fiemington meeting finished up in a
blaze of glory on Saturday. Backers opened pro-
ceedings with a misguided plunge on the showy
South Australian horse, Aldivalloch, for th'e
Maiden Plate, but from that timte forward the
men who followed form Were mostly happy. Car-
bine won his rate in a style that made the Derby
running look Very wrong. Savanak squeaked
home ih the Flemington Stakes because he got the
be3t of an outrageously had start. The Steeple
was a fiasco in favour of favourite Flashlight, and
Bravo won the V.R.C. Handicap on his merits.
Nothing was going better for the Cup at
It mile, and here Bravo met his old opponents on
many pounds better terms. The pretentions of
Whakawai to be other than a flashy flyer were
crushed in this event. They allowed the gay de-
ceiver to gillop away after his training-track
custom, and he did gallop beautifully until the
pinch came, after which Whakawai whacked
away no more. Mentor added more lustre to The
Bulletin’s Cup tip by beating Cyclops and the
Peer over three miles, yet there was such a sneak-
ing prejudice against Mr. Wallace’s deep-chested
hero that the books never tired of laying 2 to 1.
Mentor has fairly proved himself the best horse
in Australia for the time being, but as regards
his easy defeat of Australian Peer it will be well
to remember that Mr. Gannon’s horse was trained
too light for a long journey ; also that he seemed
tender on his front toes. Although looking as
handsome as might be, the Peer was not the mus-
cular animal seen at Randwick. The Free Handi-
cap—or getting-it-all-back stakes—was a real soft
thing for The Queen, and every man from N.S.W.
had got it very, very straight. Here endeth the
great Exhibition-Cup Carnival.
• * •
Now that “ starting-price ” betting is be-
coming an established gambling medium in Mel-
bourne, it is remarkable how short are the starting
prices— according to certain daily newspapers
by which the bookmakers elect to pay. Let the
guileless public look to this matter, or—as “ start-
ing price ” betting grows—they will discover that
every winner throughout the year will start (in
the newspapers) at half the odds obtainable at the
scene of action.
* •
There are gentlemen walking about Mel-
bourne who are proud to admit that they backed
Mentor for the Cup, wholly, solely and entirely
on account of “ That ‘ Loafer ’ ” in The
Bulletin rhyme. At a big sporting dinner, to
come off in Melbourne this week, said rhyme was
set down for recitation.
• • *
Mentor is full nephew in blood to old
Commotion.
* • •
If you are a horse-owner never allow a
stranger to pat your “ prad ” before a race; he
may have a hypodermic syringe concealed in the
palm of his hand.
* • •
A correspondent who went into abstruse
calculations on the time-test, proved conclusively
to the readers of the Australasian, that what-
ever might win the Cup, Mentor could have ho
earthly chance.
« •
On Cup day, Tom Hales rode four out of
five flat races, and won three of them.
* .
Hon. J. White seems to be fond of unsee-
ing his horses. Pippo, Plutarch, and ftpdolph
are geldings, and so was the unfortunate Ensign,
and it is said that no less thah eight yeArliftg cwts
belonging to the Squire of Kirkhahi aVe to be
colts no more. The chief object of racing is stated
to be the improvement of the bree'A of hor£ f e3, but
it is difficult to sete how this desirable end is to be
attained by the indiscriminate production of geld-
ings. Had Ensign been a colt his broken leg
could have been set, and he would have had a
chance of making a name at the stud. The aboli
tion of the allowance to geldings in weight-for-age
races would probably be hailed with satisfaction
by those who really have the welfare of the turf
at heart.
• • •
The Down am> GuMtkee jVRNtt of fcb’e
10th publishes a large picture of the sthrt for trie
88 Cup, and pictures just 13 horses. Cortecfr, as
usual.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —In re your par as to
Jewish fighters, I may tell you, if you don't
already know it, that a good percentage of the
Australian “yidden” can use their “mauleys”
'1 he winner of the Queensland amateur middle-
weight championship, Mr. L H. Nathan, who
weighs only nine stone, is a Jew. He is not only
a good boxer, but a capital all-round man, well-
known in the athletic world. A clever profes-
sional lightweight, who has fought several good
battles in Sydney and Melbourre (although nob
calling himself Aaron) is, like Jack Thou p od,
one of the persuasion. I could name two cr tbrte
more lights of the fistic arena who should sign
themselves, as does yours, &c, “A Jew,”
Brisbane. Aprop>os of this we are reminded that
Mr. Keesing, a Hebrew, is the champion amateur
heavy-weight of Auckland, N.Z.
• *
Some delightful stories are in circulation
along the Sydney water-front in connection with
the departure of the crack N.S.W. yachts to Mel-
bourne for the Centennial regatta One yarn is
that the owner of a most toney craft was paying
assiduous attention to a bucket before ihe ves*l
got to the H-ads, and that the frequency with
which ha ye led out “Europe!” when near the
lighthouse caused the lightkeeper to think he was
in doubt as to his whereabouts, and to vouchsafe in
stentorian voice, the information, “No, this is
Horsetrailyer!” At last, in response to his agonised
appeals, he was landed, and went to Melbourne
by train. Another amateur Viking bild. ’tis said,
put in somewhere down the coast, and solemnly
swore off “ yotting ” there and then. In a thir d
case the amateur crew, after a bad attack of mal
de-mer, deserted almost en masse.
• *
There are 1450 entries for the Centennial
Rifle Meeting at Melbourne.
* •
Eight emplojei in a well-known Sydney
establishment subscribed 2i. 6d. rach fora ticket
in one of the recent £lO,OOO sweeps. They drew
Mentor. At least so they say. The finest liars
on hand just now are the people who allege that
they hold “big tickets.” The snake-perjurer,
cnee supreme, has been wiped out.
• * .
Strange to say the Victorian Derby this
year had not a single Victorian-bred horse in it.
* • •
The cyclists’ mottc—Tri before you bJ.
• - .
Amongst other Jubilees now beir.g cele-
brated is that of the Victorian turf. In 1838 the
first race-meeting was held in Melbourne on the
flat under Batman’s Hill, where Spencer-street
railway station now stands.
* * *
On December 1, Messrs. Seale and SandaiJ,
>t 6 o amateur boxing champions of
N.S W. and N.Z. , are matched to meet in an
eight-round encounter at Eoley’s Hall, Sydney.
Sandall has improved vastly since he first showed
in Sydney, but in tackling Mr. Seale he is meet-
ing a phenomenal boxer who has never been
bested for science, although pitted against the best
talent available in Sydney, amateur or pro
fessional. Tighe, Steve O Donnell, Eogarty, and
New Zealander Pettengall, have been clean
knocked out in public by the amateur, and
in scientific displays with Jack Hall, Peter
Newton, Tom Lees, Costello, and Jack Burke, he
would have been awarded the palm had the de-
cision gone on points. Sandall can “take his
gruel; ” he is plucky and a hard hitter where he
can get home, but the writer has an idea that he
will be outclassed by the Sydney champion.
* • m
In the cricket match played between the
Hamilton Juniors and Stockton “Our Boys,” at
Hamilton (N. S. W.), on a recent Saturday, the whole
of the Stockton team were dismissed in the second
innings for one run, and even that was a bye.


PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wines from
Bookings, 410 George Street, near King Street.
Exhibition Visitors ought to oarry handkerohiels beoause
they oan get those useful articles perfumed gratia with
Crab Apple Blo»»om at the Crown Pnrfumbry Co.’s
Stand* in the Melbewrw* SiMWHm. All Melbourne
Is on this Soent
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM,
The Leading Pleasure Resort of Australia.
Gigantic Success of the TOBOGGAN RINK-the greatest
speed and most delightful sensation ever experienced.
The Magnificent SWIMMING BATHS. Open Daily for
* Ladies and Gentlemen.
The Wonderful PERFORMING SEALS and Finest Collec*
tion Of Marine Curiosities in Sydney 1
Special Notice.— The entire grounds have at great ex-
pense been vastly improved, including the erection of
lummer-houses, Outdoor Refreshment Rooms, new Lawn,
Band Stand, etc.
Sudij Btit—Tit Potilir Aftaooa Concert.
Ineluding Numbers from the Popular Operas.
OLIVETTE. DOROTHY. MONTE CHRISTO, Jcn.
The Quintette String Band will perform on the Lawn
during the afternoon.
Prices as Usual. « «T Frequent Trams.
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. —“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” ...p. 14.
Her Majesty’s.— “ The Rajah ” >•
Criterion. —“ The Butler ” •••••••• ••
Y.M.O.A. Hall —Miss Adelaide Detchon „
The cool, sequestered shade of an awful
emptiness spreads its leaves over the Sydney
theatres. For weeks past this disease has been
growing like the liver in the spring, or like the
premonitory symptoms of that internal disaster
which prevents the young man of the present day
from feeling well, and it is growing still. When it
began Sydney was filled with shows of a joyous
and mirthful description, and now that they
have mostly gone to seed it keeps on just the
same. On Saturday night Rignold and Allison
rose to combat this prevailing woe by putting
“The Rajah ” on the stage at Her Majesty s, but
after one night of gaudy prosperity the audience
began to stay away almost as much as ever, and the
only satisfaction that remains for the management
is that the public aren’t there to an even greater
degree at the rival houses and nobody seems
to know where they have gone to. “The
Rajah ” is a pale, brownish-green spot in the midst
of this desert of adversity. It is not distinctly a
comedy, for the only comic incident in it is an
unratural fat boy who is always eating and who
carries nourishment in his hat; and it does not
fill the bill as a drama, for there is only one
dramatic scene in the whole four acts, when a
large, slow man with property gets a son of toil
down on the ground and mauls him and drags
him about and tries to tear his shirt off. The
Rajah, who gives his name to the proceedings, is a
behind-hand sort of person with a pale-green
umbrella, who moves his reluctant limbs as if each
of them was an abandoned lead mine filled with
water, and drags his weary frame around after the
fashion of a sinking ship loaded with pig-iron.
He is the chief cause of the drama, and he gives
rise to it solely because he makes half an observa-
tion at long intervals, and then breaks down from
sheer exhaustion and tries to think the rest, but
tails off into vacancy while still endeavouring to
clutch the thinking process, and leaves the final
end of his inspiration in ruins, thus giving occasion
for misunderstandings. He is too tired to mention
why he spoke, and he falls asleep while striving
to remember why he is making an effort to think ;
and he carries his head far back, partly that it
may rest on his shoulders and thus relieve him of
part of its weight, and partly in the hope that he
may one day see painted in the air in letters .a
foot long some coherent observation which will ex-
plain to him why he is there. This character is
tilled with a good deal of success by George
Rignold, who drifts through his part with an air
which suggests that he was started by some ex-
ternal force and had found it an awful bore, but
had never since been altogether able to stop him-
self so much as he would like. He also suggests
that he was born leaning against a tree, and
stayed there till the tree wore out, and then went
and leaned against the nexb one. A more attrac-
tive feature is the charmiDg Miss Kate Bishop as a
lovely, joyous, wilful, insurrectionary maiden,
who lives in a sbate of chronic warfare with the
Rajah, and longs to throw something at his head,
but is restrained by the conviction that she would
die of old age before he awoke to the consciousness
of the concussion. Another insurgent girl is kept
alive by Miss Roland Watts-Phillips, and Messrs.
Greville and Tolano are required to make mirth
where mirth is not as an individual of the Stiggins
order and a sketchy person whose indefinite out-
line has been embezzling money. Mr. Jewett has
a mean little part, and has all he can do to avoid
losing his shirt, and Mr. Sweeney is a badly-
painted fat boy with a stupendous bun. The
“Colliers’ Strike” was evidently run in as an
alternative title to make the audience believe that
the drama is about something, and some of the
best scenery yet produced in a theatre where the
paint is always provided with a lavish hand im-
presses the public with an idea that the events
happened somewhere, or, anyway, that if they
didn’t happen the management was careful to pro-
vide a place where they could have happened if
they had wanted to.
** # *
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” is again the pre-
vailing affliction at Sydney Royal, and we are
called upon to weep as before over the belaboured
African who hadn’t sufficient go in him to hit
back. The humble psalm-singer and amen-snorter
who appealed to our feelings in the days when we
were boys together is trotted across the stage of
public grief once more, and his harrowed carcase
casts its shadow over the valley of the Red River
as it did in 1860 and upwards. An attempt has
been made by expanding the part of Topsy and
making her turn somersaults and sass her pro-
prietor in public, to lend an unnaturally comic
element to the tragedy, but the effort falls
flat, for all the time we suffer from an
awful impression that somebody is bashing
Uncle Tom behind the scenes, or that he is
tied up to something and languishing m cap-
tivity. After a while this fear expands into a
morbid craving to see Uncle Tom bashed, and we
want Eva to hurry up and die so that the assault
and battery may re-commence. Even Topsy gets
wearisome at last, for her presence appears to
make people reticent about hitting Thomas with
fcha large piece of leather which they carry about
for the purpose, and Maggie Knight’s fine acting
in the small part of Eliza seems like an intrusion,
and we rise to ask why, if she is not going to
pound the much-walloped slave herself, shedoesn t
clear out and make room for someone else who is
prepared to keep that persecuted person in a
proper state of martyrdom. Yet when the piece
is ended we faintly realise that the over-worked
and underfed Baptist wasn’t whaled so very much
after all, and then we feel that we have been
swindled. Uncle Tom always 1« *«•« lf h « had
just been admonished with the end of a hard rope
weighing at least 801bs., and as if he was just
going away to be admonished again, but this len t
Che reality that the public crave for, and it doeen t
fill the bill any more than the sight of an overfed
man can fill the place of a dinner. One hundred
and eighty-seven other objections are held over.
The cast at the Royal shows that a large amount
of talent has been recklessly thrown away, a
few items in the general waste being Game
Swain herself, Maggie Knight-whose brilliance
is lost upon a frozen river—Messrs. Carey, r orde,
and O. Harris. A lot of scenery, which would
have made excellent table* clothe, is also expended
on this disappointing drama. In our private
capacity, we regard the entire show as a publica-
tion which ought to be tied to a truck at a goods
station where a drunken official is superintending
the shunting, and allowed to take its chance, and
if the chance proved to be a bad one we would
celebrate the occasion by going out to drink the
health of anarchy and eternal smash.
Mr. Foley, of the White Horse Hotel and
the Gaiety Theatre, Sydney, also retired oham-
pion boxer of Australia, and various other things,
has become the owner of a daughter. The smile
which pervaded Mb face during the last few days
gave rise to an impression that he had won a
£500,000 sweep, but this rumour was unfounded,
Mr. Foley’s joy being based entirely on the cir-
cumstance above-mentioned.
## # *
“The Butler, 1 ’ at Sydney Criterion, pur-
sues the even tenor of its way,
** * #
The Melbourne shows wallowed in such a
slough of prosperity all laßt week that managers
generally decided to remain in the middle of it
for a while longer. Under these Carnival circum
stances nothing in particular happened on Satur-
day except at St. George’s Hall, where the usual
company did something rather fresh in either of
three trifles, more or less new. An inconsequen-
tial delirium, described as “Patchwork,” consti-
tuted the main body of an entertainment which
appeared to afford great satisfaction to a crowded
house. The latter portion of this eulogium is bor-
rowed from the daily press of Australia, the
United Kingdom, and several other countries
under the British Flag.
## # #
A further continuation of “Mikado,” at
the Princess’s, has dealt a cruel death-blow to
The Bulletin's childlike faith in Messrs. Wil-
liamson, Garner, and Musgrove, and a rumour
that this distinguished firm doesn’t properly un-
derstand the nature of an oath is gradually gain-
ing ground. Only the other day, W., G. and M.
were inviting particular attention to their comic-
opera time-table, setting forth a sequence of pre-
arrangements from which nothing might, could,
would, or should induce these gentlemen to
swerve. They gallantly stuck to their protesta-
tions for three solid weeks, but when ‘' Mikado
had completed its allotted span, the Serpent
tempted them, and they fell with the historical
dull thud. Instead of putting up “ Mascotte,
they held on to a sure thing. They burst up their
unalterable plans for the sake of money (mere
dross), and that conscience-torturing time-table is
already an obsolete publication. Barring bloated
business, there is little about this latest perform-
ance of “Mikado” calculated to atone for the
Triumvirate’s breach of promise. Miss I anny
Liddiard distinctly fails to be funny as Katisha,
and Mr. Leumane can’t rub in the necessary local
colours. Also, the Japanese potentate gives one
the idea that he ought to swop his sceptre for a
quiet pub. But Miss Nellie and other originals
are about as good as they were before, and the
prevailing effect is quite too altogether.
.* * #
“ Carmen ” lingered peacefully on at the
Opera House until Tuesday, but “The Bohemian
Girl” was to suffer a further resurrection last
(Wednesday) night. After Friday, however, that
venerable charmer will return to the oblivion she
is best adapted to adorn, and Mr. Simon sen pro-
mises “II Guarany ” for the first time in these
parts. At the Royal there is still a steady demand
for “Hands Across the Sea,” and the Alexandra
finds customers for “The World Against Her.
This drama wrestles violently with the question
“Is Marriage a Failure?” but a six-act contest
terminates in a draw, as usual.
#* # *
“Sophia” holds on tight at the Bijou
until Saturday, when the Brough- Boucicault
talent purpose paralysing their adherents with
“The Squire,” best of all Pinero’s serious comedies.
It is worth mentioning that this particular
“ squire ” is quite a different type of creature to
Squire Western. This one wears a bustle. Wirth s
Circus continues to gallop round the arena amidst
shouts of horse approval, and the Federal Minstrels
have a nice time at the Hibernian Hall. Like-
wise Frank Clark’s crowd are still getting there
or thereabouts at the Victoria. But those tuneful
Jodellers from the Jungfrau leave Melbourne
almost immediately, with their wild ocarinas slung
behind them. They will take a second innings in
Sydney ere returning to the snow-clad peaks of
their own beloved home.
#* * *
Since The Bulletin hurled a series of
honest curses at vice-regal command nights
those miserable pomps and vanities have tempor-
arily dried up. Either Sir Henry Loch has with-
drawn his august patronage from performances in
which he was advertised to sustain the leading
character, or else that observant emblem ot
monarchy has given his lessees and managers to
understand that he preferred taking a show just
as it came, without issuing any “ commands at
all. Anyhow, Melbourne theatrical advts. have
been purged of the nauseous headlines for many a
day, to the deep distress of all whose supreme ob-
ject in life is to catch the vice-regal eye. Three
representatives of Victoria Regina were on hand
during Cup week, yet the old theatrical grovel
never came off once. Hallelujah !
** # *
Mr. “Private Secretary” Thornton was a
passenger from England by the Ormuz, which
reached Adelaide on the 7th. He is under engage-
ment to Messrs. B. and B. and will shortly appear
in his new piece, “Sweet Lavender.” He has also
secured the rights of “ Mamma,” an adaptation of
“Les Surprises du Divorce.”
*# # #
George Darrell and his company have
finished their season at Broken Hill, and have
done altogether good business, but they are not at
all in love with the silver town and its tropical
surroundings. When the heavy fire occurred the
other evening the theatre could not be occupied,
although Mrs. Darrell’s benefit was advertised,
and a good house was anticipated. Instead of
acting, however, the members of the company
were sworn in as special constables, donned a blue
badge, and did yeoman service in preventing the
expansion of the flames.
*# * *
All the fearful and hideous sensations of a
life ‘ ‘ Alone in London ” have been crowding round
the Adelaide Royal, and the prayerful citizens
have roused themselveß to a sense of terrible dread
for which Bland Holt is entirely responsible.
Realistically staged and completely acted the joint
effort of Mr. Buchanan and Miss Jay has been
well received, but it gives place shortly to “New
Babylon,” which will be put on with all its start-
ling and giddy scenes.
** # *
Mr. P. J. Duggan, a Melbourne amateur
actor of the deepest dye, has atoned for his many
histrionic offences by rescuing a drowning boy.
Duggan’s latest performance was instinct with
noble nature, and above cold criticism.
* # * *
We publish this week a portrait of Miss
Adelaide Detchon, elocutionist, ventriloquist and
vocalist, who is delighting Sydney audiences at
the Y.M.C.A. Hall just now.
# # * *
Manly Aquarium is to be taken over by a
company for £15,000.
# # # #
lb is again reported, this time from India,
that Frank Weston is dead.
* * # *
That well-situated property (one of the
largest Sydney blocks) on which is situated the
Academy of Music, is, we understand, open to ne
leased for a long term.
• * « *
The receipts of Daly’s American Company
for 81 performances at the Gaiety Theatre, London,
amounted to £14,500, which is quoted as a remark-
ably handsome sum. Unless ohe Gaietyburles-
quers showed a bigger return than that, the
Triumvirate can have made no money out ot their
plucky venture.
# # # *
We see from the Scarborough Post of
September 14 that when the mail left Mr. Dick
Aspinall (son of the late Butler Cole Aspinall,
Q.C ) was playing at the local Londesborough
Theatre in “Little Lord Fauntleroy. He took
the part of Higgins with much success.
# * # *
The Gaiety Theatre Burlesque Company
(Eng.) will be much strengthened for the coming
winter season by the inclusion of Fanny Hobina,
(who, with her sister, there made her first notable
appearance during the regime of John J 1 ollings-
head), Florence St. John, Jenny Dawson, Jenny
M‘Nulty (Amurkan), and a new dancer, Lilian
Price, from the Liverpool boards. Leslie, Danby
and Co. will be ably assisted by Messrs. Lonnen
and Stone. *•**
Some moss-eaten relic of the by-gone
theatrical Eons, criticising, in Lloyd’s Weekly
(London), a greasy olla podrida, The btill
Alarm,” running at London Princess s, jerks his
pre-Noachian theories thusly Few opportu-
nities for acting were afforded by the piece,
though Miss Mary Rorke displayed many charms
as the heroine.” Acting! Great Scott I What
would he have ? The “ display of many charms
is all the acting the antipodean dude and Elisha
gasp for, any way. If Babylon s bald-heads can
appreciate Mary’s charms, let her come on to Syd-
ney by first Bteamer, with her trunks or without
them. „ „
* * * *
A tableau, illustrative of the popular idea
of Sheol, will be a feature of one of Isaac Selby s
forthcoming Freethought entertainments at Bris-
bane. Isaac complains that a Brisbane paper re-
fused to insert an advt. about one of his lectures,
“An Evening with the Devil,” on the ground
that the title was impious, but on bLe titie at°re-
said being altered to “ An Evening With Satan
the journal collared the 33. fid, and inserted the
advt. This delicate respect for the feelings of His
Nibs is quite natural in a country where the lower
thermometer reposes in Satan’s bosom.
* * * #
It was merry Christmas time at a certain
English provincial theatre, and they were playing
“ Forty Thieves.” Business did not admit of a
very lavish expenditure in the matter of supers, so
the management cut down the robber band to four
souls, all told, which four were required to march
round a tree ten times. The tree was so artfully
situated that there were never more than three
robbers in sight of the audierce, and all mig
have gone well save for the unhappy fact that one
of the desperadoes was afflicted with a game leg.
The “ boys ” stood it for a couple of rounds, but
after that each successive entrance of the lame
man became the signal for an encouraging shout
“Bravo, Hoppy ! put in another lap.
The London D.T. received 26,000 letters
on the question “Is Marriage a Failure ”
Oa the Clarence River, N.S.W., there is a
J.P. who officiates as barman at a wayside pub.
The epicurean Hkvknin’ Nooze says
“That rare delicacy, a genuine sole, was .caught
at Parramatta yesterday on the ebb tide. Poor
young man ! Probably didn’t see the old man
coming.
The William J. Rotch, a vessel now in
Sydney harbour, is named after the captain of the
Boston tea-ship, the emptying of whose cargo, 100
years ago, was one of the incidents of the great
War of Independence. .
The holder of Mentor in Tatter sail’s
£50,000 consultation fell into a swoon on hearing
the result of the Cup race, but was immediately
brought to with a dose of Marshalls Tonic Ner-
vine, and was soon as well as before he won the big
prize.
Among the many attractions of the Christ-
mas number of The Bulletin will be a Pictorial
temperance-sermon in jim-jam colours, by Mr.
Phil May. Everybody who has been there will
testify to the excellence of this fine work of
imagination.
The grand old Australian art of inexpe-
ditious hanging-the looped sweetness long drawn
out—has not been forgotten in Queensland, as we
notice that the judicial murder at Brisbane this
week of Sedin, the Malay who run amok at ’Nor-
man ton, occupied just 15 minutes.
The best and gayest sporting ballad
written in Australia during the last 18 years will
be published in the Christmas number of The
Bulletin. It is entitled “ Old Pardon, the Son
of Reprieve—a Racing Rhyme, and is from the
pen of a Sydney limb of the law who m these
columns chooses to be known as The Banjo.
To the great amusement of the populace,
the S.M. Herald people continue to grind out bi-
weekly in their journal great columns of Morell
Mackenzie’s maunderings about the late German
Emperor’s throat. When, the other day, we saw m
the Herald three colossal engravings of objects
like drainpipe-couplings, we thought that the
paper, which weighs three-quarters-of-a-pound,
was devoting its attention to a new scheme of
sewerage or water-supply, and were very much
sold to find that we had spent part of our little
twopence on plans and specifications of the
deceased W. Hohcnzollcm s larynx.
The Auckland (N.Z.) Bell newspaper,
recently defunct, was for a time a ‘‘real live
paper,” and with a team like George M Cullagh
Led, R. J. Kendall, and Grevdle. Smith was
absolutely a menace to the old-established and
well-conducted Star. On one occasion Reed
struck a genuine sensation in the form of the
alleged murder of a seaman on a Yankee whaler,
and served it up night after night in such a hot
and startling manner that the circulation o
paper nearly doubled itself in a week. rlao
Henry Brett, of the Stab, was at his wits-ena
for a counter-blast to the sudden popularity o
rival jerk, and it is said that he ,P r ay e '“ ,
earthquake, which forthwith came in the form
the Tarawera eruption. The Stab people wen
that eruption for all they were worth. Li y ,
Philp, and others were despatched to the scene
the upheaval of nature and columns of norn y*
ing details” and “blood-curdling adventures
were wired through, the telegraphic charges alon
amounting to many hundreds of pounds. -*- n
Bell’s murder sensation wilted like a trodden-on
geranium and the smart little paper soon aftei
“ went where the woodbine twineth. ’
The convalescent hospital to be erected on
the shores of the Parramatta River— to provide
which the late Thomas Walker bequeathed a sum
of £loo,ooo—will shortly be an accomplished tact.
The buildings are to consist of 10 cottages facing
the river, with out-buildings, lawn-tennis courts,
bowling-green, and quarters for medical otticers,
matron, and staff of attendants, dining-roomß,
bath-rooms, library, concert-room, and other ac-
commodation, and the total cost is estimated a
£30,000, leaving £70,000 as an endowment for the
institution. Mr. Walker had long contemplated
the foundation of a convalescent hospital, put m
was postponed through pressure of other business
and he died leaving nis idea for others to °ar y
into execution. The following clause in hiß
bequeathed his benevolent design to his heirs :
For a considerable time past I have had it in®):® 1 "
to establish in part of my land here (Yaralla) a hospital
a somewhat extensive scale for the reception and reatora
tion to health of convalescent patients from the hospita
of Sydney and elsewhere. But the pressure of other
claims on my time has prevented me from r y
projeot into effect. Should this still be the Btate of the
case at the time of my death, then I hereby enjoin the
trustees of my will and my daughter to accomplish
design as soon after my deoease as it maybep ,
to do so. With a view to enable them to do this. Iherebi
direot my trustees to appropriate and set aside* *
estate not less than £lOO,OOO for I wsumethat th.ssum
may be sufiioient for the building and maintenance of t
hospital I have in view to establish.
The hospital on the Parramatta River will be
Thomas Walker’s best monument.
Dear Bulletin, —King Kalakaua, of the
Sandwich Islands, means to visit Melbourne Ex-
hibition. Some vears ago I had the pl eaBU ™
a trip on a Pacific mail steamer from Sydney to
’Frisco, having on board a small but singularly
well-assorted complement of passengers, which
included, besides the usual collection of gushing
widows, ardent youths, staid married c ° u Pl® B <
and the inevitable baronet, a world-famous astro
nomer, whose unfortunate contretemps with i re-
nder Parkes over his Sunday lectures will never he
forgotten as an example of Christian toleration,
ana who, under the able conduct of the ! nuc ,
travelled ” Smythe, had just cleaned Victoria and
N.S. Wales out of their spare cash and so de-
pleted the pockets of all N.Z. that the colony has
never been able to attain a financial equilibrium
since, a well-known Australian actor who will
easily be recognised under the name of the
“genial George,” and a young Englishman, a
cousin of the inventor of the hoary-headed to
pedo. These three with the writer made up a
quartette, who, after the labour of the day (eating
and sleeping, mitigated by whist and nap ) was
over, were accustomed to while away the midnight
hours in the saloon under the then liberal rule of
the P.M. Co., which left a light burning all
night. At Honolulu the passenger-list was
increased by the addition of his Majesty
King Kalakaua, and suite, and a very sweet
suite of American adventurers they were, too.
The state-cabin on the upper deck, made famous
by having been occupied by General Grant on bis
trip round the world,’’ was occupied by
Nibs ” and the adjoining cabin by his suite, the
district being immediately christened Cannibal
Square” by the irreverent. Kalakaua himselt
was a very decent fellow—for a king—not at all
of the same kidney as the Thakombaus and others
of the South Sea Island genus, whose most
striking exploits on their visits to Sydney have
not appeared and never will appear in print, while
the Obscene Publications law holds sway. He
was then a tall, handsome, portly gentleman,
speaking French, German, and English, in which
latter language his accent and intonation were
equal to that of most cultivated Englishmen or
Americans, and quiet, modest and unassuming in
spite of the efforts of his suite to make the com-
mon (white) mortals on board “kotow to him.
“ His Nibs ” soon heard of the enjoyable evenings
(and early mornings) passed by the ‘all star
and three-star company, and although desirous
to become a member it was not until the night
before our arrival in ’Frisco that he was able to
escape the vigilance of his attendants and join the
festivities of the four. A pleasing sight it was to
see His Majesty at the head of the salloon table,
carefully keeping within reach a bottle of fine old
Bourbon, beaming on the gang and taking
his turn in merry yarn and lightsome jest,
while his ame damnte, nicknamed Oount
Robert,” hovered like a restless ghost in
the background, vainly endeavouring to get
the monarch to bed, to which destination His
Nibs ” steadfastly declined to proceed-as long as
there was any whisky left in the bottle. But the
climax of the fun was reached when the astrono-
mer-now, alas, no more '.-looking at his Majesty
with a round-eyed and innocent expression ot in-
genuous inquiry which all who have seen him can
readily imagine, asked, in the words of Artemus
Ward “Well, how do you like being a king as far
as vou’ve got ?” His Majesty did not know at
first whether to order Mr. Proctor off to execution
or to laugh ; his aide-de-camp nearly fainted with
horror ; but his Majesty took the milder course
and cachinnated, finally replying that he thought,
on the whole, that being a king was the most
desirable line of business going (he has changed
his mind since). The seance rose at 4 a.m.-b.b.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
Is more Wholesome, than
BRANDY or WHISKY,
And is a
Pure Refreshing Beverage.
Be Careful you obtain Wolfe’s.
£1 Deposit will secure Good Building Site.
Everleigh Estate, Perth, West Australia.
Don’t neglect this opportunity of making money.
Plans, W. .T Douglas, 9fi Bathurst-st., Sydney.
Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
(given for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing.
.Dress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
.attended to by QUITTENTON BROS.. 11l
Russell- street, MELBOURNE
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, olose to sea
bath*. Horses and hno’C’les tor hire
PEPPER
Solt
They clapped a screw- jack under Milton
(N.Z.) Presbyterian Church the other day, boosted
the sanctuary on a lorry, and wheeled it away to a
new site. Immediately the sacred edifice was off
the ground the meenester and two elders flopped
on hands and knees to fossick where the founda-
tion-block had been for the coins usually deposited
in such places. The meenester, with professional
dexterity, was the first to strike colour. With a
yell of holy triumph he grabbed the coins. The
pom, rather. “ Hechsirs !” he said, with a rather
elongated smile, but with an anticipatory smack
pf his lips, ‘ 1 ’tis bub the price of a wee drapp—
that is, brathran, it’s joost a saxpence.” Then,
while the elders sab back on their heels and blas-
phemed in Gaelic, he added, “ May the deil tak
him that poot it there —it’s bad ! ’ The Tuaßeka
Times, in recording these sacred incidents, or
some of them, pokes unregenerate borak at
the impecuniosiby of the Miltonian faithful
when that church was built, suggesting that
they were hard up for generosity or money.
The son of Caledonia stern and wild who grinds
out-the Bruce Herald, in reply, with chilling
gravity gets upon his hind legs to declare,
that “The Tuafeka Times is quite mistaken.
Money was more plentiful then than now, bub
the church was built by a thrifty race, who
did nob believe in depositing their money
where it would yield no return.” There is a cold-
blooded level-headedness in this declaration
worthy of a pawky and
pious Scot. We painfully
dse to suggest that the
devout should, on future
similar occasions, put a
largeish cheque under the
foundation stone. A
cheque payable, say, to
Angel Gabriel—to hir
order.
• * *
When the man who
writes this was a young
reporter he used to be
sent; round to morgues,
and police-courts, and
sermons, and tea-meet-
ings and other cheerful
places, anl when he went,
as he often had to do, to
godly bun-shivoos, he was
much embarrassed by the
warmth of the welcome
extended to him as a
“brother in the Loard”
by clerical authorities
Who, unaware that he
had come on a merely
business visit, extended
to him that vice-like grip
of fellowship with which
the clergy always greet a
new customer. It seemed
hideously ungracious to
turn round, after being
received with so much
empresseimnt and say :
“ Excuse me, reverend
sir. but I am not a Hard-
shell, as you seem to
think; ” but on the other
hand the mere idea of
pretending to be piously
interested in the proceed-
ings suggested the basest
form of hypocrisy. But
the poor scribe very soon
discovered a remedy—ha
found that the formula of
the elders of the journalistic profession on such
occasions was, “Ah ! good evening, sir ; I repre-
sent the Morning Snoozer.” That always
froze them right off at once. When they got to
know you were a pressman they never expected
you to believe in anything—even in themselves.
They invariably accepted you as a fellow-humbug.
» * •
NO SHIRTS.
“A Lady Visitor” rushes a great, hys-
terical shriek of mingled pain and rage into the
columns of a Melbourne daily, anent the shocking
depravity of the French gallery at the Exhibition,
and the immoral tendencies of one or two pieces
of statuary in other places. She also dwells
fiercely on the marriage question, and signifies
that the sbyle of matrimony in vogue is a heap of
infamy, and expresses her sorrow that the sexes
are heaved together so promiscuously. She would
hold the young people asunder till they were old
enough to know better, and consecrate marriage
to the greater glory of almighty snuffle. Let us
unite in singing hymD, one, ought, one
*' Last week an interesting little boy came
under the notice of Premier Parkes. ... Sir
Henry described him as the finest little fellow he
had ever seen. . . . The hon. gentleman has
made him the subject of a short poem.”— Eciio.
We have been favoured with a copy of this
pome. Here it is :
More (■allows.
George Syme, for killing his mother-in-law during
a quarrel, has been hanged at Melbourne. He
leaves behind him a wife and seven children, who
have been socially hanged by society on the same
gallows as their father. Thus have eight murders
been committed by the law in order that a system,
to the efficacy for good of which the experience of;
a hundred ages has given the lie, may be main-
tained. And two men convicted of murder were
hanged at Brisbane on Monday. Let us cast our-
selves 20 years into the future and sing
We read that in Texas recently an owl
mistook a sleeping man’s head for a chicken, and
fastened its claws into his scalp. “Wal, what’s
the matter now, old woman?” said the assailed
one, as he awoke.
The Government medical officer sent to
report on the recent typhoidal outbreak in the
beautiful and fertile district of Koroit (Vic.)
attributes the disease to the filth of the inhabit-
ants. He says that there every prospect pleases
and only man is vile.”
It has been discovered, very late in the
day we admit, that “ records ” of convictions are
not admissible in evidence on re-conviction. A
conviction must be proved by eye-witnesses. How
many prisoners are serving loDg sentences now
against whom the “records ” were admitted ?
Great art thon, O Staggerjuice ! Shares
of 20s. paid up in Tooth and Co., Limited,
Sydney, floated six months ago, are now at a
premium of ss. (id. We are told that before the
imposition of the present excise duty a certain
Sydney brewery used to return £lBO,OOO annually.
The champion long word Is German, and
—take a long breath—is Constantinopolitanlsche-
fiinfundeinhalbprocentizf didelsackmachergeselle-
nheiberbergsactienversicherrungsgesellschaft. It
means : “ A stock company of bagpipe manufac-
turers in Constantinople paying five and one-half
per cent, dividends.”
The New Zealand Offenders’ Probation
Act is not always the unmixed blessing
it is cracked up to be. Too frequently it is
utilised as a medium for tempering with mercy
the administration of justice to the “well-con-
nected ” criminal. A previous clean sheet and a
friend or two with a little influence are certain
passports to the good-will of the Probation Officer.
A case illustra< ing the operation of the Act re-
cently came to light at Christchurch. One Bag-
nall, a well-connected thief, had received three
months for larceDy, but was discharged on proba-
tion. The very day that he got his probation
license brought him another slice of luck, in the
shape of £lOO remittance from “home.” He
thereupon, instead of sitting down in sackcloth
and ashes, and going in for repentance and lachry-
mosity, incontinently went on the spree, and in a
week spent £OO amongst people who were no
better than they ought to have been. The Proba-
tion Officer now thinks that his clemency in Mr.
Bagnall’s case was ill-timed, and has “had him
up,” with a view to obtaining an order that he
shall serve oub his original sentence.
’Tis at the gate of glory,
A virgin sharp and thin
Bespeaks the porter hoary
Who clanks his keys within—
She asks to be admitted,
And draped in snowy white,
As none are better fitted
To grace the realms of light.
She tells the sainted Peter
On earth she was so prim
The choir at least might meet her
And sing a special hymn.
On courting and on mating
She fell with little ruth.
Was fond of advocating
A gown for naked truth ;
She passed severest strictures
On drink, and dress, and dance,
And held as crimes the pictures
Displayed by wicked France ;
She thought a marble statue
Too vile for epithets,
Worse than the photos, that you
May find on cigarettes.
Now Peter throws the wicket
Ajar, and with a grin
He nips the virgin’s ticket,
And bows, and she is in.
With many modest blushes
She views the angel's skirts,
Then turns and earthward rushes—
The cherubs wear no Shirts ! !
“Sweet youth, for thee my bosom yearns
Oh ! don’t grow up like Cocky Burns.
“Store in thy mind, as coals in bunker,
The Ten Commandments, just like Brunkef.
“ Don’t dream of being a land-shark ;
Example learn from Rufus Clarke.
“ Strive to be noble —to be grand,
And copy not John Sutherland.
“ Avoid the fate of him who mingles
The truth with tiger-yarns, like Inglis.
“ Beware, beware the scorpion’s tail,
And don’t go on like Abigail.
“ Dear boy, from evil courses flee,
Nor act like Roberts, C.M.G.
THAT OLD DOG STORY.-NO. 1.
MASISTRATE (to Mr. O'Flanagan): "YOU ARE ACOUSED OF HAVING SHOT THE PROSECUTOR'S DOG. WHAT HAVE
MR. O’FLANAGAN : “WELL, SUR, I SHOT THE DAWG RIGHT ENOUGH, BUT LET HIM PROVE IT!”
“ Shrink from a future state of, brimstone—
Keep far away from G. B. Simpson.
“On life’s broad sands leave some footmarks,
And let thy pattern be H. Parkes.
“H.P."
THE HANGMAN’S LAMENT.
189.
Oh, for the good old times, when human life
Was sacrificed to Art ; my hangman’s skill
Is useless now ; false sentiment is rife !
And Justice e’en attempts to cure, nob kill.
They called my gallows a vile thing and tore
It down from where it held its place on high'.
They little recked that my old heart was sore,
And deep emotion dimmed my aebiog eye.
For them it was mere beam and rope ; for me
Far higher, holier, an altar great)
Of fierce avenging Justice, and to be
The very ground and bulwark of the State,
’Twas more to me, for ’twas the scene on which
I proved my art, and stood without a peer
For who so well could tie the fatal hitch
And place it lovingly behind the ear.
’Twas the high altar—l, the chosen priest;
And now that altar bub exisbs in name.
Time, I have seen, works wonders ; bub at least
It cannot rob me of my well-won fame.
Well I remember when I sent four boys
O’er to tbe other world before their time,
Some low and vulgar people made a noise,
And chose to call my virbuous act a crime.
Then rose the clergy, and the lawyers boo,
And all of any note within the land,
To prove that when the fatal bolt I drew
Twas God’s own Justice spurred my willing’
band.
Ah ! that was fame, to see how I was loved
And my profession lauded high by all;
Even when faults occurred, as when I shoved
A victim off who had refused to fall.
I never had to jump upon a man
To break his neck, as other hangmen did ;
A touch, and down at once the bodies ran,
And with a thud to kingdom come they slid.
Ah ! how r scanned the papers ia those days
With eager expectation, so to learn
If rape or murder done a chance (night raise
To swell my list and give niy skill a turn.
And when a trial was on I almost prayed
For “guilty ”to be spoken. Oft in hope
The case would help nie in the way of trade
I’ve hurried home to choose the soap and rope.
I loved the gallows loved it heart and soul;
But nio3t when on the rope a body swung.
Men thought it dreadful, but to me ’twas droll
, To think how easily a nian is hring.
Tis easier than hanging dc gs; their weight
Is half the job the cap is o’er the head,
The clergyman has done his little prate.
The bolt is shot, and there —the nian is dead.
Oh, for the good old days ! What is there now
Worth living for ? My arb has ceased to be.
What matter now who’s slaughtered in a row
lb never gives the slightest joy to Me.
My arb is gone, though puppets now I swing
To cheer me up, I find an aching void ;
For want of living subjects everything
Is changed since my profession was destroyed.
Oh, for the good old days ! Alas, for me,
My soap and rope are laid upon the shelf.
One only thing remains that I can see
I’ll take them down and straightway hang—
myself.
EDWARD DEMPSEY.
Personal Pars.
A lady has started a newspaper on
“strictly Christian principles ” at Jerusalem.
The meek curate always wears a soft hat.
It wouldn’t do to put a hard hat on a soft head.
It was remarked at the funeral cf Sir
Anthony Musgrave that the clergy of different
churches did not keep step,
A C.E. Syuodsnnan in Wanganui (N.Z.) ia
choirmaster in (he RC. Churcli there. He is
paid for his duties, and declines to see anything
except business in the. engagement,
G C. Miln, the actor, now in Australia,
used to draw lO.OOOdbls. a year as minister of the
Chicard Unitarian Church. How much would
the average Sydney clergyulan draw if he took to
the stage ?
Mr. Isaac Selby, the Freethinker, is in
(Queensland delivering illustrated lectures on “ A
Peep into Hell.” We suppose he talks for half-
an-hour and then shows his audience a photograph
of Townsville.
Adelaide takes the prize for church attend-
ance. London, linlo ; Liverpool, 1 in 9 ; Mel
bourne, 1 in 6 ; Adelaide, lin 4. Adelaide also
takes the cake for Y.M.O.A. and Social Purity
Society absconders.
At Exeter (England) cathedral a fashionable
congregation, numbering 700 worshippers, put on
the collection plates on a late Sunday 359 coins.
Of these one was 25., a few Is., a few also (id., a
hundred Id., six farthings, and the balance 3d’s.
Such is the fervour of modern religion.
The R&v. P. J. Stephen, pointing to the
growth of a certain church, assured his congrega-
tion at Parramatta, the other day, that before long
the battle of the Reformation will need to be
fought over again. If such a time comes it will be
found that the battle will be wholly among clerics,
and that it will be the poor men of broadcloth
against the wealthy ones.
There are G2l news-
papers published in Ber-
lin. In that city are
issued 105 periodicals
concerned with literature,
science, and art, mosb
of which are weekly. The
catalogue of religious and
ecclesiastical journals is
relatively small; the
number is 30. In London
the operation is reversed ;
there are in the British
capital abouto2l religious
papers to 30 ordinary
ones. Result that Ber-
lin is going ahead in
everything. But no doubt
John Bull will get his re-
ward in the next world.
Our old friend Spur
geon hiR published -
work entitled “Offiqms
drawn on ths B ink of
Faith.” The tills is bold,
but mi-Pading As a
matter of [fact, the Go -
pel-grinders’ cheques are
drawn on the feaiiingly
unbreakable bank of the
people’s credulity, en-
dorsed there, and cached
by the usual monetary
institutions. Thus, not
ODly has tbe parson great
faith, but al-o much fat
turkey and port wine;
while his impoverished
parishioners have incal-
culably more faith than
bread and-butter.
Dr. Roseby, die new
Congregational pastor at
Marrickville (Sydney),
says that if Sir Henry
Parkes spend a
year in Victoria he would
be a much wiser man
than he is. This may or
may not be true, for the old adage holds that if
you send a goose to Dover he will come a goose
over. But what appears to be true is that Dr.
Eoseby looks upon himself as being three times as
sensible a man as Parkes would be even if he
spent a year in Victoria. His reverence declares
that he spent three years there.
The following advertisement appears in
the London Nonconformist :
WANTED, an unmarried priest for small country
; church. He must have six points: choral ser
vice, open-air prewiring, crioket, football, and
women’s cluhs. No moustaohied or lawn-tennis
playing priest need apply.
The Sydney Christian World asks ; “ Are tfsere
any godly souls in that village ?”
The plenteous Edith and her little family
are now in London. Mr. Auffray writes out to a
Sydney friend to say that they had a warm shake
hands with Bishop Barry, and an edifying conver ■
sation with that good man, Martin Tupper. “ We
are wanted in England now,” the Escaped Hus
band goes on. * as the Eoyal Family are making
mistakes. Sad to say, the letter ends abruptly
here, and curiosity as to the royal failings must
remain unsatisfied. It is well, however, to know
that whatever the backslidings are, Edith is on
the spot.
Canon Kemmis, in his recent Sydney
lecture on “ The Christian Year,” while
dealing eloquently with the effect of the
great work upon the mind of the day, omitted
mention of that aspect of Keble’s labour which, to
the utilitarianism of the present, has the greatest in-
terest. The ‘Christian Year,” which was equal
toIOOO preachers, the author offered to Joseph
Parker, the publisher, for £2O, and the offer was
rejected. Keble got it out later on one-fourth
shares in the retail price, and netted £l4 000 on
the transaction.
Two paragraphs which appear close to-
gether in a recent if sue of the London Dailv
News are in strange contrast. In the first it is
stated that a successful jockey can make from
£4OOO to £5OOO a year; and in the second the
writer comments on the fact that a clergyman in
the North has to support himself, two curates,
two lay helpers, and a schoolmaster on a stipend
of £3BO a year. The schoolmaster, who, in addi-
tion to possessing all the cardinal virtues, must be
able to play the harmonium, is paid £25 per
annum—about a tenth of what a successful jockey
raises for winning one big race.


Only a few more £lO allotments Eveiileigh
Estate, Perth, West Australia, Send for Plans
aid Pamphlets. The Intercolonial Investment
Po., 9(1 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aus
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 90 Bathurst-street,
Sydney.
KM There is no doubt of this great remedy’s
KM potency. It is no New Discovery unknown
KM and mayhap WORTHLESS, but is familiar to
S3T the public for years as the only reliable
KM remedy for diseases of the Kidneys, Liver
KM and Stomach. To be well, your blood
KM must be pure, and it never can be pure if the
m Kidneys (the only blood purifying organs),
KM are diseased.
DIZZINESS,
AGUE, CURED WITH
DYSPEPSIA,
DROPSY, WARNER’S
BAD EYES.
IMPOTENCY, SAFE CURE.
FEMALE TROUBLES.
Ask your friends and neighbours what WAR- T<A
NER’S SAFE CURE has done for them.
Its record is beyond the range of doubt, "bA
It has cured thousands and we have the 1A
testimonials to prove our assertion. WAR-
NER’S SAFE CURE will cure you if you '"A
vill give it a chance.
Personal Items.
Lady Loch doesn’t look well.
Mr Frank Gardiner is Carrie's swain.
The Mac Million has been converted to
Local Option.
Lady Munro has taken to water. Poor
soul ! She fell into it.
Premier M‘ltwralth Is going to Hongkong
—not Japan, for a holiday.
Jimmy Tyson owns over a quarter million
acres of land in Queensland.
Graham Berry is (16 and thinks of going
back to party politics in Victoria.
“Robert burns” is suggested as a good
epitaph for agnostic Bob Ingersoll.
King Humbert, of Italy, is a teetotaller, a
non-smoker, and in politics a Protectionist.
Rajah Inglis esme first be foie a discerning
public as secretary to the Newel Mile (N.S.W.)
School of Arts.
A Chinese merchant at Port Darwin
(N.T.) is named HuDg Young. There is a strong
hint sticking out here.
E. W. O’Sulliva'i is a native of N.S.W.
He was never out of Australasia. His ancestors
were in the military line.
Chief Justice Darley is author of the
N.S.W. Act which makes marriage with a
deceased wife’s sister lawful.
The late Sir Anthony Masgrave’s charger
was bought by Lord Carington, and his carriage
was bought by a Brisbane tailor.
The recently-arrived Lrrd Hastings is just
a British “ swell ” and nothing more. His appear-
ance is clean and essentie.lly unremarkable.
Mr. Dailey’s writings and speeches, ex-
tending over a period of more than 30 y ears, will
shortly be published under the authority of his
executors.
Proctor partially at-
tributed his unusual
powers of endurance to
his very temperate habits.
He said that if he wanted
to work he must drink
water, and if he wanted
bo play he could take a
little wine. “ Cham-
pagne,” said a friend of
Cobden, “is a drink for
the gods.” “ Yes,” re-
plied Cobden, “but the
gods have nothing to do.”
Mr. J. G. Knight,
Commissioner for the
Northern Territory at
Melbourne Exhibition, in
a ipecial report to the
local committee at Port
PatwiD, writes : “ I
assure you, my dear
Honorary Secretary, that
your Commissioner has
a very trjing time of it,
and that it requires all
his self-denial and virtue
to keep stra’ght.” This
is a magnificent) specimen
of shirt-sleeved official-
ism.
The la3t lioce Mr.
Dailey’s name was men-
tion! din public was on
the occasion of Deni-by s
re-burial at Waverley,
within a few feet of where
he himself now lies. Mr.
O'Connor in the course
of his speech announced
that “Australia’s fore-
most orator would, in
a few weeks, when the
monument was erected
over the remains, deliver
an address on the merits
of him whose bones they
had just consigned to
earth.’
Justice Wrenfordsley, whose temporary
appointment incited the Victorian Bar to tear
their wigs, is otherwise the mo3b popular man on
the Bench.
One of the surest waj s of getting a meeting
ortea-party or lecirare fully reported in a certain
‘great ” Sydney daily newspaper is to specially
invite the principal of the propiietary.
A lady writer in the Australian Cen-
tennial Magazine says that the public loses a
great deal by its steadfast refusal to read iarkes
poetry. “ Steadfast refusal is excellent.
George Syme, of Lilydale, Vic., who shot
his mother-in-law, has been hanged. His blood
is upon the head of the circumstance that
Premier Gillies never had a mother-m law.
John M‘Elhone, Archpriest Sheehy, and
William Bede Dailey were schoolfellows at St.
Mary's, Sydney, forty odd years ago. The arch-
priest said the requiem mass over his dead school-
mate. .
It is stated in a Victorian paper that Essie
Jenvns will nob again tread the boards, as a Mr.
J. K, Wood, who is said to have a lovely home
somewhere in N.S W., is a successful suinor lor
her hand.
The case which will test the validity c 1 the
assignment deed made some time since by Sir
Henry Parkes will be tried in Sydney shortly.
Should the deed bs upset Sir Henry will have to
go through the Bankruptcy Court.
Sheriff Cowper, of N.S.W,, was present
at the execution of Sy me, in Melbourne, e ® e
pleasant little interchanges of courtesy will do
much to bring about a better understanding be-
tween the boss hangmen of the various colonies.
A Sydney writer claims for Deniehy the
authorship of “Free Selection before Survey.
The late Wilson Gray, formerly M.P. for Rodney,
Vic., and later in life D.C. Judge in New Zealand,
is believed to have been the originator of the idea.
The North China Herald states that
when a Chinaman hss a limb amputated he always
begs for the severed member, which, being cooked,
he eats. If he does not eat it he has it locked up
in a box, to be kept until the day when the rest
of his body shall be buried.
The original motto of the S. M. Herald
was “ sworn to no master, of no sect am I. This
has been scratched out. Ibis now obviously sworn
tosuppoit the pal-.y in pjwer, and geneiuLy to
bolster up constituted authority—no matter how
constituted.
It is said that Sir Robert Stout intends to
quit New Zealand and settle in Melbourne. If
this report be true Sir Robert has changed his
opinions since, under the auspices cf Mr, Thomas
Walker, M L.A,, he harangued from the s*age of
Melbourne Opera House
The R9V. Oockleton, or Sackleton, or
Erackleton has publicly said that he “is sur-
prised a man like Mr, Dailey should have been
a Roman Catholic.” If Mr Dailey ever heard
of Cockleton he was very probably not much ap-
prised at a man of that sort being an Orangeman,
The Qaeen, it is cabled, i? effecting enor-
mous reductions in the Royal household with a
view to making provision for her grandchildren.
Her proposed economies include the abolition of
the Royal Hunt. And th : s is wbat Royalty has
come to ! Propped up out of savings from dogs’-
meat !
Writes “W.W.” (a certain N.S W. Honor-
able) in a Sydney daily “Alas, poor Deniehy !
accomplished scholar, brilliant writer, splendid
ot'ator, too genial soul! With a weak constitution
he had a thorn in the t! sh, and like Byron, Burns,
Kendall and other great intellects, he was prema
tur r ly cut eff when only in his 37th year. He and
I were of the same age. At his death he was in
the prime of life, whilst I, after the lapse of more
than two decades, survive bo lament his misfor-
tunes and untimely end.” What a satirist!
Mr. George Hall, who died in Brisbane
last week, and Mr William O’Carroll who died
there a few years ago, were warm friends at heart
but bitter fo c s with pen They were both on the
same paper at one time, and even then ib was
difficult to keep them on the same page without
running the risk of tellirg the gentle public that
there were two opposite ways if dong a right
thing. At last Hall went to the rival paper, and
O'Carroll and he each settled down with h's own
crowd. Each knew th- n’her s hand, and what
one wrote to-day the o h‘r slaved to-morrow And
off and on they met at the Belle Vue and else-
THAT OLD POG STORY. —No, 2.
MR. O'BRIEN' "WELL YER WARSHUP THE DAWG WAS OF NO VALUE AT ALL, BUT AS HE BOASTS ABOUT
IT I MAKE HIM PAY THE FULL VALUE.
where, and what they said in ink obey washed
away in brighter liquid. These were the good old
days when Gresley Lukin was journalistic king in
Brisbane.
On Hon, John Smith’s Gamboola run,
Molong district, N.S.W., rests the remains of the
aboriginal guide (Yurinack) who accompanied one
of the first exploring parties into the interior
of the colony. A small mopument was embed
over his grave by the Government of the time as
a memento of the darkey’s “worth and pluck,
as stated in the inscription, and the grave was
enclosed with a neat palisade. Scarcely a
vestige of the fence now remains, and the honour-
able Smith’s sheep and cattle browse over poor
Yurinack's grave.
The Prince of Wales when fir.t he lived in
Norfolk was induced to join a swell local cricket-
club “Tummy ” went in vigorously for practice,
and at his first match it was privately arranged
between the captains of the two teams that the
coming K.” should be indulged iq a little soft
bowling. The bowler, however, when he got
fairly in front of his Royal Nibs, could not resist
the temptation of putting in a straight one and
the Prince’s bails were distributed. He returned
to the pavilion a mass of chagrined royalty and
he doesn’t play ye olde Englyshe game now.
The present Duke of Norfolk has an
annual income of £200,000, some half-dozen
splendid mansions, a title which dates back o> er
400 years, the billet of hereditary earl-marshal
of England, and about a dozen miscellaneous
patents of nobility. His only eon, the heir to all
these glories, is deaf, dumb, deformed, blind, and
imbecile, and yet if he lives he will be Duke of
Norfolk and hereditary earl-marshal in his turn,
and his absent intelligence will be, at least m
theory, a part of the collective wisdom by which
the British empire is governed. The British con-
stitution is one of those things which no man on
eaith can ever comprehend.
The Earl cf Lucan having died, we rise to
state that there is now no surviving reason why we
should hear any more of the Charge of the Light
Brigade, and we would therefore suggest that that
unexpected piece of velocity should be, to some
extent, dropped out of sight. For 30 solid years
England has jawed over one stupendous blunder
in Southern Russia, and, while she has been living
on the memory of it, her soldiers have had a rough
time of it in Afghanistan, and have been licked
by the Boers, and badly shaken up by the /ulus,
and the Arabs have scared them out of the Soudan,
an d W ell, on the whole, it is time for the Light
Brigade to charge over again, and furnish sime
nev laurels, for the old ones are fa-t going toseed.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is estimated that the l .S. Presidential
campaign costs £4,000,000.
During the past five years 6<28(»,445 acres
of N.S.W. Crown Lands have been bariered away.
Gladstone says that payment of members
is the way to remedy the inadequate representa-
tion of labour in the colonies. D’ye hear, Parkes?
It has been discovered that in 1887 ihe
N.S.W. births exceeded those of Yictoiia by 4214
In Victoria people are so busy that they have no
time to be born.
North Queensland miners urge that) the
names of non union men who worked during the
recent Newcastle strike be posted throughout the
branches of the union.
A gaol costing £l2OO has been erected at,
Glen Lines, N.S.W., to plea»e the local popula-
tion, and now it cannot be occupied became it
would ba too expensive to man it 1
Melbourne papers say that for want of
appreciation in his native colony—N.S.W.—Mr.
Ninian Melville intends to settle in Victoria. The
Bulletin undertakes to say that the rumour.is
unfounded.
The Grib (Graftal, N.S W.) truthfully
says that the Victorian political system is as far
ahead of the N.S.W. one as a triple expansion j
engine of to-day is ahead of the early inodels of
Newcomen and Watt.
John Haynes publicly advises Premier
Parkes to adopt the Cooper plan of leasing lands.
Parkes says he did leas 9 land once—to M'Namara
—but the business turned out unsatisfactorily, and
gave no end of trouble.
The N S.W. Government, which gives
free postage to all papers printed within the
colony, refuses to allow newspapers containing
supplements printed in Melbourne to go post-free.
What is this but rank Protection ?
Mr. Frank Farnell is not the only youth-
ful-looking senator in Australia. “Wait till you
have a barber’s bill to pay.” was the jeer that
annihilated Hunter, of the Burke, m the Queens-
land Parliament before last prorogation.
The British municipal elections have re-
sulted in great gains to the Gladstonians. Glad-
stone has had a magnificent reception at Birming-
ham, and says that he will not retire into private
life till the Irish question is fettled : “Theresidue
of my life is the property of Ireland.
As indicating the bent of the legal-political
mind, it may be mentioned that tince Responsible
Government was introduced into N.S.W. there
have been 20 Grown law officers. Of these no less
than 11 clambered up to the Supreme Court
Bench, while one was satisfied with a -D.O. judge-
ship.
It is ramoured that the next Governor of
S. Australia will be Right Hon. Henry Chaplin,
M.P. It is an open secret that this non. dead-
beat’s income has grown extremely slim, but he
has always been a pig-vote supporter of the Salis-
bury Government, which is ever land to its
friends.
The Scottish Court of Session has decided
that the Parnell-TiMES libel-action may proceed.
There is a chance of even-handed justice being
dealt out. A Bench of Conservative English
judges is no more competent to preside in this suit
than would a Kerry jury be to “sit on a local
case of landlord-shooting.
The Colonial Secretary of Queensland in-
structed the police to arrest Captain Wright if he
would not leave the Gayundah. The police pre-
pared to do so, but it transpire! now that they
addled their heads over trying to define his offence.
Neither common nor statute law provided a name*
However, the resolve they came to was to run him
in for “insulting behaviour.”
Haynes, M.P., in Sydney E. News :
The coming almost certain defeat of the monopolist
for the U.S. Presidency will be a pea
of ’muffl'd belli for the entire party of shadow throughout
the world. The election of Cleveland by tfce Democrats
will be a cational demonstration in favour of Fieetiade,
the equal of which the world has not seen since the fall of
the corn laws, t
And now it is cabled that Harrison is President!
The Australian Star considers that
strong measures are required to meet the case of
Mr. Burns, the gentleman who takes charge of
the N.S.W. deficit. His conduct in the Assembly,
it says, is simply outrageous, and it thinks a
horsewhip is the only implement which would
meet the case, If things have come to this with
Burns, the orily thing that would make Parki n
civil would be a batberiDg ram,
Parke 3 says that Frestrade N.S. Wales
extends the hand of friendship to all nations, and
goe3 straightway and repulses the Chinese. He
has a brother. in logic at the head cf a State in
America. The President of the Georgia Legisla?
lure declares that the law shall recognise no
differences of creid or colour, and lays on the
table of the House u Bill to exclude coloured
children from the piiblii schools.
Tli jra is painful reason to fear that Mr,
Grover Cleveland was ousted from the presidency
of the United; States because The Arcus solemnly
advocated his re-election. The oldest Victorian
identity says that in all his experience he never
knew The Argus to take up a winning cause.
And that obsolete journal, dimly conscious of this
fact, never ventures to 1 tip a horse for any race.
The chosen quadruped would inevitably walk in
with the crowd,
£4558 of Australian money has been sub-
scribed towards an O’Connell Memorial Church,
being a considerably larger sum than is likely to
be raised in Ireland. Commenting on this the
Argus says The facility with which money
for national objects can be obtained from the
Irish abroad has appar-
ently relieved the Irish
at home from the slight-
est necessity of pertonal
exertion.” From The
Bulletin point of view
nothing in this connec-
tion is plainer than that
the Irish at home aie
stone-broke.
Premier Parkes, in
hi? “No case, abuse the
other side ” speech at
Manly, drew a popula-
tion comparison between
Victoria and N S.W ,
showing that the latter
colony had shot ahead of
its Southern neighbour
but he con ven iently forge t
to mention that both tree
ard assisted immigration
to Victoria ceased in
1873, just 15 years ago,
whtreas until a couple of
years since N.S.W. wis
a receptacle for free im-
migrants from the work-
house? and gaols of Eng-
land. It has been ad-
mitted that 500 dis-
charged prisoners hate
been sent to the mother
colony.
A heavy banqpet
took place the other day
the Mansion House,
London, and when the
assemblage was suffici?
ently gorged Lord Salis-
bury rose and stated that
Yurrup continued peace-
ful. The aldermen, whp
had been feeding beauti-
fully for two hours, ap-
plauded this statement,
and when Salisbury fur-
ther asserted that Yurrup
intended to continue
reaceful and that no foreign invasion was going
to scare then) away from their victuals, the cheer-
ing was tremendous. The gathering then re-
corded its opinion that “It was himpossible for
H ingland to retire with /< mour from Hejip, ’
and the world settled down to another 12 months
of profound c»lm.
The Sydney Orangemen held a meeting
the other night, and commemorated the Gun?
powder Plpt, the Defeat of the Spanish Armada
and the landing of King Billy—all at one fell
swoop. They might also, while they were about
it, haye inc’uded the safe arrival of Noah’s zoo-
logical collection at Ararat, the birth of Sir
Henry Parkes, and the.first soaping of Jawbone
Neild’s moustachioes. When you are having a
celebration there is nothing like having one of all-
round human interest, and if a man can’t find
something he can drivel about out of such a varied
selection as we have quoted he hasn’t brains
enough to chop up cats for a mubton-piefoundry.


THE BULLETIN, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER IT, 1888.
r > /esf- ry-'.i^-k
~^p cC Y OU '
o) CO. ifer-T** a
> of —-
w*» r>
v*.
V
f.
sr
or
*<>>


a^CS“
<5>^
o
c-
'■T 1 -
'4lS
o.«\
•vJ
O
V
. ) h\\\»i
C '
°w
■£> vd
\
t *V
\A
*> v/-s
> \
V- '
*-*
V
*3 V* i"'fasti > °/Z7 titl'i
JjfAiTTt A A Lj,o, Q y ' ff
A Departed Carnival


FOimH.y STAMPS FOR( OUECHOP: Our
new price list can be obtained on application.
Selections of stamps sent on approval to respon-
sible parties. 100 choice Foreign stamps, all dif-
ferent, postage 2s. Bd. Send unused stamps
of any colony. S 3? Old collections purchased,
It, a. VIMH* CO t Box GOO, General Post
Office, SVIUKV;
Hope for the Deaf,— Nicholson’s Patbnthd Arti
FicAL Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing oures have been effeoted. Send for 132
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,’
illustrations of the Drums, oopies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
•ured by these Drums, and who reoommend them.— Dr.
NICHOLSON. 66 William Strkkt, llHlmiirnr.
SWEET BORONIA, the New Perfume. Manu
factured from the West Australian 11 Boronia
Megistiguia.” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANOI3 LONGMORB, 138 Bourke-street East,
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOE
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention Is called to the followln ]
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS"'
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot bo ex
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to mair -
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, worl •
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W.H.PAUNi&GO.,LU
GEORGE BTRRBT. two door* from P.O,
Society
Bollingen
[?]
An attempt ia being made In Sydney to
form an “Australasian Dicky-bird Society.” A
Sucking-piggy Association may be expected to
follow.
•
The litigation now going on between
Messrs. G. R. and T. A. Dibbs, and in which a
large amount of money is involved, is a matter of
deep regret to the many personal and political
friends of the parties. It is hoped that the
trouble will be sebbled, even at the present stage,
by an appeal to arbitration.
• * •
Sydney Echo wants to know why females
about to commit suicide always remove bonnet
and shawl as a preliminary. It) is surely evident
that superstitious reasons are at the bottom of the
habit: the woman uncovers from the same reason
as does the habit-ridden Imperialist when “God
Save the Queen ” is played.
•
A Melbourne paper advises Premier
Parkes, during his visit to Melbourne, to speak
seriously to Premier Gillies on the subject of
matrimony. It shrikes The Bulletin just now
with half-brick force that some one should speak
seriously to Sir Henry on the subject of matri-
mony.
An enterprising Sydney tradesman, erst-
while of Wellington (N.Z.), proudly exhibits in
his window the (in 1885) Governor’s appointment
as “Maker of Umbrellas and Rivet!er of China to
his Excellency.”
* * »
The French Baron de Bourgoing, who has
just died, used to tell the following story :
When I was a young man, I fell in love with a charming
girl I used to meet at balls and parties. I found out that
she reciprocated my sentiments, and obtained her permis-
sion to speak to her father. The next morning I called
on him, was shown into his study, and presented myself
as a suitor for his daughter’s hand. The old gentleman
seemed surprised at first: but when I had assured him of
the sincerity and stability of my affections, he offered no
further objections, and, accepting me as his son-in-law,
sent for his daughter. As ths door opened I ran to greet
my fiancee —it was another young lady—your mother, my
child, he continued, suavely smiling at Mile, de Bourgo-
ing. I had abstractedly come to the wrong house,
pressed my suit with the wrong father, and been
given the wrong wife ; but, of course, I could not retract
or put upon the young person the indignity of refusing
her. She did not live long, he added, with great
serenity. Pray take some more wine !
O
At “Our Lodgings,’’ the leading four-
penny bed establishment of Melbourne, the bath-
room record is “two men a week out of 284 in-
mates.” The remaining 282 never get a wash un-
less they happen to be caught in the rain.
• *
An item of interest to the Smiths and
other noble families :
The sale of the Royal < )ak Hotel, at Knarasborougb, the
other day, marks the extinction of one of the oldest, if
not the very oldest, families in England, the Swales of
Swale Hall, in Swaledale, Yorkshire Sir John S vale
who, at the age of 51, died without issue on the 24th July
last, was for many years the proprietor and landlord of a
little inn at Kn arasborough. Yet an ancestor of his—
rather remote, it is true —married a descendant of the
Lady Aethelflaed, Alfred the Great’s daughter. Alfred de
Swale was Lord Chamberlain to William the Conqueror,
and another member of the family, Magor de Swale, ac-
companied Richard Cceur da Lion to the Holy Land. Up
to the reign of Charles I. the Swales occupied a leading
position in Yorkshire; but they suffered sorely during
the Civil Wars.
Thus, while in Hingland the old nobility descend
to rum-selling, in Australia the nobility descend
and ascend from the rum-seller.
* * *
The following protean yarn is going the
round of the British press :
A lady and gentleman were travelling together on an
English railway. They were perfect strangers to each
other. Suddenly the gentleman said: “ Madam, I will
trouble you to look out of the window for a few minutes ;
I am going to make some changes in my wearing apparel.”
“Certainly, sir,” she replied, with politeness, rising- and
turning her back upon him. In a short time he said:
“Now, madam, my change is completed, and you may
resume your seat.” When the lady turned she beheld her
male companion transformed into a dashing lady, with a
heavy veil over her face. “Now, sir, or madam, which-
ever you like,” said the lady, “ I must trouble you to look
out of the window, for I also have some changes to make
in my apparel.” “ Certainly, madam,” and the gentleman
in lady’s attire immediately complied. “Now, sir, you
may resume your seat.” To his great surprise, on resum-
ing his seat, the gentleman in female attire found his lady
companion transformed into a man. He then laughed
and said : “It appears that we are both anxious to avoid
recognition. What have you done? I have robbed a
bank.” “ And I,” said the whilom lady, as he dexterously
fettered his companion's wrists with a pair of handcuffs,
“am Detective J— —■, of Scotland Yard, and in female
apparel have shadowed you ; now,” drawing a revolver,
“keep still.”
Mrs. Margaret Fox Kane, one of the
Sisters Fox who first introduced spiritualistic
seances into this breathing world, recently con-
fessed that the old “ manifestations ” were a base
deception. It makes us smile. Only last week
in Sydney we popped a medium-man into a black
bag, tied tightly round his neck. Then two of us
put him on a chair and sat facing him. We held
his knees and kept our feet on his feet. The gas
was turned out, after which the spirit played
banjoes, chucked the furniture about, and hit us
in the middle of the back, and when the gas was
lighted again we were discovered to be wearing
ball-toppers and nursing wind instruments. The
medium remained in the bag as before. He bad
no confederates, and all the man'feftations were
his very own. But the spirit gene J’y laughed
while he thumped us with a fidd.e, »v f.b -r fore
concluded that it was another base deception.
This idea was confirmed when the voice of the
spirit crept through the gloom, saying, “ Ain’t it
a— — good show ?”
* * *
Mr. Mair and Miss Hunter were united in
the holy bonds at Fitzroy (Vic.) one day last
week. Double harness.
• • •
A Melbourne phrenologist slated in a
recent lecture that the character of a man is often
discernible in his nose. Bookmakers’ noses are
invariably crooked.
Rather a “ rekerky ” thing in the way of
weddings was successfully pulled off at Broken
Hill (N.S.W ) a little while ago. Neither bride-
groom nor bride was very intimate with the
other’s records, bub as each one seemed in a
desperate hurry to make the other happy for life
they faced the parson, shouted “Lst her go,
Gallagher,” and in the twinkling of a duck’s thumb
the two became one. When the ceremony was
over the bridegroom lit his pipe, tucked his blush-
ing bride under his arm and started off for the
nupbial tent. Upon arrival there the newly-made
Benedict presented his soul’s adored to half a
dozen touzle-headed brats who were tumbling
round, and proudly exclaimed, “Them’s all by my
fust ole woman.” Nothing daunted, however, the
blushing bride replied, “ Good for you, Jim ; I for-
got bo tell you I had seven myself over where I’m
staying; you better send and bring them home.”
This was done, and as the new batch of urchins
filed in their ma straightened herself up and point-
ing bo them said, “Them’s all by my fust ole
man.” And as the bride banged her “baker’s
dozen” to b3d she philosophically remarked “ We
live an’ learn an’ you never can tell till the
numbers are up.”
• * *
A gilt-edged, la vender-watered bank-clerk,
who had been looking on the rum when it was red,
publicly used “language” at Charters Tower re-
cently, and taking into consideration the majesty
that doth hedge a bank-clerk, two local J.’sP. “sat
on ” the case in a private room with closed doors,
and so illustrated the nice discrimination exercised
by the blindfold goddess in dealing with a man
WHAT HE LAUGHED AT.
YOUNG LADY (with 81-ton hat): “DID YOU SEE THAT GENTLEMAN
LOOKING AT ME?”
LITTLE STOUT LALY: “YES—I SAW HIM LAUGH AT YOUR HAT.”
whose remuneration is called “ salary ” as against
the common or garden variety of man who merely
earns wages. Thadeus O’Kane, of the local
Min kb, is turning the Nordenfeldt of his rhetoric
on these crooked-minded “beaks,” and is in excel-
lent form for the work. Just now, as we learn
from his own paper, he has “sworn off” any-
thing stronger than “ gingerbeer and horehound.”
A Queensland Irishman who draws his inspiration
from gingerbeer and horehound, and sticks to it
from the force of conviction, is sure to be a
bulwark of the liberties of his country.
* # •
A large gooseberry grown In New Zealand
is called “The Lord Rosebery” and a giant
cabbage “The Lord Brassey.” Happy idea!
Why shouldn’t we have a Carington mushroom ?
• t •
One of our idols has been ruthlessly
smashed. The iconoclast who did it asserts that
a certain English earl, who visited the colonies
some years ago, advanced the coin with which to
build the splendid additions made to the most
exclusive club-house in Sydney. People imagined
the club coffers were overflowing.
• *
In proposing the health of Sir Henry and
Lady Loch, at an Exhibition free feed in Mel-
bourne, the other day, Sir James Macßain said
that His Excellency and her Ladyship had dis-
charged their duties in connection with the Exhi-
beeshon in a way which had given undooted satis-
fawebion to the people of the kawlinie. As these
arduous duties consist chiefly in assisting to de-
molish costly viands and vintages at gratis ban-
quets and entering the show on a gold-mounted
free-pass once in a while, no one can ever again
accuse Victorians of being exacting, unless the
aforesaid satisfaction is of a vindictive character,
and arises out of the knowledge that at every ban-
quet His Excellency attends the obher free-lunch
sharks suffer terribly from Loch-jaw.
* * *
“ Are these Ah Pow’s children ?” queried
the magistrate in the Bairnsdale (Vic.) Police
Gourt, the obher day, of Mrs Ah Pow, who oc-
cupied tile witness-box. “ I don’t know,” replied
the matron, blandly. “He thinks they are, but 1
don’t.” Another injustice to the heathen !
* • •
A recent issue of Melbourne Herald an-
nounces that one of the staff of that journal has
found 24 three-penny bibs on the tram-track,
where, doubtless, they were dropped by a con-
ductor, who can have the same on applying, &c.,
This is a mo3b remarkable circumstance. Twenty-
four long beers repudiated by a reporter ! We
should have expected a Herald scribe to report
any occurrence but the above.
• • #
The only lady-undertaker in Sydney says
she has been established over half a century !
Tough !
* * *
An Adelaide weekly objects to the ac-
climatisation of the American national gams
baseball, because all these pastimes bend to keep
the colonial youths out of the defence force.
Great Scott! how many more policemen do they
want ?
• • *
Seven titled swells —Sir Henry Loch, Lord
Carington, Sir W. O. F. Robinson, Sir James
Macßain, Lord Hastings, Sir Maurice O’Rorke,
and Sir James Lorimer—spoke at a recent Mel-
bourne banquet. In describing the shivoo the
local dailies, for a wonder, quite ignore the groan-
ing “bored.”
• * *
George Syme, hanged at Melbourne Gaol on
November 8, was the first man to be legally done
to death in Victoria within the last 30 months.
Apart from the fact that he met a barbarous fate,
Syme was not a man to be pitied. He shob his
mother-in-law, and then aggravated his crime by
saying, “ That will tickle the old up.” Syme
went to heaven, according to the gaol chaplain’s
report. We hope his mother-in-law went there
also. That will be Sheol.
* # *
Dr. Drysdale, an eminent London phy-
sician, wants people with more than four children,
fined 40s. per baby. Reducing it to the level of a
common drunk and disorderly.
Nick Fitzgerald, M.L.C., of Castlemaine
ale celebrity, goes to England to be present at the
marriage of his son with a daughter of Lord
North. Fitzgerald, junior, will doubtless be de-
lighted to see old Nick at the wedding.
* * *
All the Sydney bookmakers having gone
to Melbourne, Parkes has decided to pass a short
bill, before their return, placing them under the
operation of the Chinese poll-tax.
Some queralous person complains in the
press that in a piece of cake purchased at the
N.S.W. Woman’s Industrial Exhibition he en-
countered four pins.
* ® <*
A very godly personage who a long while
since put the Murray between himself and his
creditors, having made a lot of money at land-
sharking has now paid up in full. Peter pays
Paul.
* » *
Honesty doesn’t consist in paying 20s. in
the £. Neither does loyalty. Some of the
accounts in connection with the reception given
to Premier Parke 3 at Yomg, N.S.W , la it year
are still unpaid, and at Broken Hill prominent
citizens are washing their hands —whitewashing
their hands—of the expenses connected with
Governor Caringtoa’s late tour.
* * #
The pungency of British humour is pro-
verbial. The English Press is crazy with delight
because a Dative humourist has discovered that
Australian frozen mutton is “sheep and nasty.”
It is cabled that an attempt has been made
to dynair ite two registry offices in Paris, it is
presumed that the offices were at the time full of
young persons named Muleihy and Hooligan, who
were all exclaiming, “An’ how many childher
have yez, an’ de yez kape much company, an’ how
many shur-r-ts does the masther wear ivery
wake ?”
* * *
It is cabled that a woman has just had her
marriage declared null and void in England on the
ground that she was the sister of her husband’s
deceased wife.
We have been reading the Sydney law-
notices. It is a very terrible thiDg to have to
borrow money from a political pawnshop to fighb
a divorce-case against a lawyer co respondent.
• •
Lily Dampier, in “all canary,” was a
leading feature of the lawn on Cup Day.
A witness in one of the Melbourne Courts
last week said that he “ followed the boot) pro-
fession.” Whether he made boots, sold boots, or
merely followed the profession of blacking boots
was not quite clear.
• • •
lb was a general remark at Flemlngton
that Carington had grown a lot older during the
past year. Some good judges examined his lord-
ship in the paddock and came to the conclusion
that he was an “ aged ” hoss.
• «
The ladies of Hon. James White’s party
didn’t sport the blue and white colours—nob bo
thetxtenb of a sunshade ribbon —on Cup Day,
Bub Mrs. Donald Wallace came down dre: sed to
celebrate the forthcoming victory, and was, as
usual, the brightest and happiesb-loolcing vision)
the whole show.
• • •
The Prince of Wales’ Birthday was cele
brated by the carrying on of shamfights all over the
colonies. It is impossible to keep royalty and
shams apart.
• • •
Sir Henry Loch thinks that Australian
wine has too many name 3. Anyone who has tried
to make a selection must agree with him. Tnere
are m re “classes” in Australia than in all
Europe.
* * *
A Melbourne advertisement mentions that
the Gippsland Lakes are under the Patronage of
His Excellency Sir H. B. Loch, K C.B. Which
reminds us that the Yarra is under his immediate
Distinguished Patronage.
* » *
A New Zealand detective, who is just now
hunting for criminals in Melbourne, has been re-
lieve I of bis pocket-book by some of the local
marauder?. The mortified D. begs to explain
that the pocket-book wasn't stolen at all, but
“ worked out of his trousers pocket.”
Broken Hill is suffering from a plague ot
lawyers. One half of the late batch of admissions
have removed their brass plates and law-books
from Sydney thither.
• » *
Disappointed hopes aro the lot of all man-
kind, but few people experience so long a disap-
pointment as that which has jusb occurred to an
eminent Australian public man who sees £20,000
down and an annuity of £2OOO a year receding
into the dim and distant vista of the law-courts.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie, according to cable,
“has attempted to resist the prison discipline to
which her incarceration submits her.” Probably
this fascinating fairy is like Colonel LukiD, in
“ The Magistrate.” She objects to be’ng washed
with kitchen soap.


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-wtiitk
Paifot Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-wiiitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-wftitk Patent Roller Flour is the
best in the market.
The most profitable use for a few pounds is in
purchasing a £lO allotment, Perth, Western Aue-
tralia. There’s money in it. Plans. The Inter-
colonial Investment Co., Ltd., 9(1 Bathurst street,
Sydney.
[?]
840 Macquarie-street, North, Sidney, Nov. 14, 1888.
My Dear Moobabisda,-
News comes to me from Victoria that there is sorrow in
the hearts of a Sydney married couple over there who are
Doth culprits, and are waiting to see which will have the
“cheek” to “forgive ” the other first. Smith (his name,
of course, isn’t Smith, but the baok of that cognomen is
broad enough for everything) told his duckie that he bad
business which would detain him a fortnight and Jamberoc.
She immediately argued that as Jamberoo or Flemington
are some distance apart, she could have a peep at the his-
torical raoe and be back in time to kiss hubby, with a
sweetly forsaken air of utter loneliness, on his return.
You have guessed the sequence, of course. They met on
the G.S. steps.
A correspondent requests me to state that on the 31st
ult. Mr. Hubert Tanne, of Marrickville, was united to
Miss Fanny Rigney, of Bathurst (cousin to the officiating
clergyman, Rev. J. B. Boyce). The proceedings were
highly satisfactory, and the bride wore wine-coloured silk.
Sydney Liedertafel concert on the 14th, might have
been a howling success or an abysmal failure for all I
really know about it, the entertainment having been for
“ gentlemen only.” A Sydney musician who was present
assures me, with many tossings of leonine locks, that it
was a “feast, ’ I'm glad to hear it, but I haven't much
sympathy with “puff pow-wows.” Good music being rare
in Sydney, why so frequently exclude us frcm the seldcm-
obiainable?
A certain dignitary who has just married again has had
to pay ano’her “lady ” £5OO for refraining to mention to
the bride and her relatives quite a number of things con-
cerning himse’t
A very queer fable is going the rounds just now about
an aristocratic importation connected in some way with
an Australian Government House, who peeped through
a hole in a partition of the ladies’ room at a swagger
Melbourne caf<s, where three ladies had retired after
dinner. When discovered lie hadn't the sei se to remark
that he was merely a harmless social puiist out fer exer-
cise with his auger, hut accepted the odium of his posi-
tion ; arc! now he writes in turn to each of the ladies
tpied upon to explain that he’s so troubled about it that
he cannot sleep ! This is probably no invention, since he
has proved himself so very open-eyed.
At the recent “ pupils’ ball’’given by a very fashion-
able atd unpopular Australian dancing-master, the gay
and festive whirl was protracted far beyond midnight,
and when one guest, whose partner's tongue clove to the
roof of her mouth, wildly asked their host where he could
procure a “ reviver,” the dealer in walfcz-step3 haughtily
intimated that a jug of water and a glass were situated
somewhere on the premises, and constituted the only
available refreshment ('.';. Fancy dancing all night on a
glass of water!
Some of the tales current about Mary Ann seem almost
incredible. I heard the other day about aSj dney house,
wife engaging a girl from the Benevolent Asylum, my
dear poor Magdalene bringing her baby with her.
When she arrived and her would-be mistress showed her
her room, she said, “But where's the cot? I always
accustom baby to sleep in a cot!” The cot was promised,
and Mary Ann next took a survey of the premises, which,
being situated in the city, didn’t seem to please her. In
a few minutes she appeared before her mistress-for-the-
moment, fully attired for walking, and said, “ I'm sorry I
can’t stay with yer, inarm ; but, yer see, I’ve got so ac-
custom'd to the lawns at the ’Ome that yer ’avin’ no lawn
upsets me that much I coulda’t stay. Good morning.”
Then she gave a sad smile and vanished, and the Sidney
housewife sat down hard on a chair, and said “ Well 1” at
intervals for 20 minntes.
I read recently that “ the Roman Catholics in Australia
and India have presented the Pope with 5,000,000 lires.” I
completely discredit this remark, because I don’t miss
•one solitary M.L.A.
My Melbourne correspondent indulges in seme welcome
gossip about the lawn show at Flemington on “ Darby ”
and Cup days. On Derby day the gowns were decidedly
monotonous, dull and sober colours carrying the vote.
•Lady Loch wore white silk, gracefully festooned with
white lace, and small white tulle boDnet: the two ether
ladies in the vice-regal party (Miss Stawell and Miss
Darley) wore green cashmere and green bonnet, and
coral-pink silk trimmed with coffee-coloured lace, respec-
tively. On Cup day the frocks were much more gorgeous.
Lady Locb wore a handsome gown of Nile-green silk,
trimmed with bands of darker green velvet and
orange-satin, white silk vest, and straw bonnet ornate
en suite. Lady Clarke wore Gobelin grey moire
and satin jupe with Directoire coat of moire.
The Hon. Misses Loch wore cream Liberty silk frocks
gathered on the shoulders, sleeves, and fronts, straw
hats ornate with ivory feathers, white gloves ; Miss
Darley wore white Liberty-silk and lace, white bat;
.Airs. Berrjamin (Mayoress of Melbourne) wore black moire
and jet; a daughter cf Judah turned cut a stunner in a
pink and gold-shot train and bodice over a jupe cf
geraniums embossed in red velvet. At a little distance
she must have looked something like Solomon out “ with
’em all on.” Au reste, white was well patronised ; tan
boots shod everybody: the majority cf the gowns were
either made of cashmere or Liberty-silk; the most
popular styles were the “ Directoire ” and the “ Empire ;’
hats were numerous and high, but not quite suoh “ flower-
pots ” in regard to their trimmings as heretofore ; bonnets
were tiny and elegant; floral parasols were decidedly in
ine minority, and it was observe! that maD> Melbourne
and Sydney “leading lights” in “sassiety” were very
economical in regard to their frocks, wearing the same
get-up at the three race-meetings ! That’s all about the
Cup, except that the vice-regal luncheon tables were
beauf ifully set with pale blue satin and carubia ribbon
down the centre, upon which were scattered white flowers,
crimson roses in shallow vases, and cloth-of-gold roses
almost covering the table, whilst a boutonniere was placed
beside the plate of every guest. The vice regal luncheon
party included Lord Carington, Lord Hastings (who, by
the way, is steward of the English Jockey Club, and
admires Flemingtonian arrangements), Mr. Burroughes,
the Hon. Rupert Carington, and “ K.W.” Miss Darley
was also present.
A Tamworth correspondent writes to tell me how that
Northern town bore up under its first illumination by
eleotric-light on the 9th inst. The Mayoresi performed
the caremony of “switching on ” the light at 8 p.m. and
before undertaking her cnerous duty was presented by
the contractors with a gold bracelet set with one very fins
diamond, and a gold key with which to operate on the
switch. The proceedings appear to have been marked by
an enthusiasm bordering on hilarity, the only drawback
being that there was rather an overdose, perhaps, of
National Anthem.
Thera is little or nothing going on in Sydney just now.
The dull days have come with a rush, and the only thing
left to do is to pack up and flee to the mountains. The
Rose Show in the Governor’s Domain on the Bth and 9tli
fell very flit and was a perfect misnomer, as very few,
and even these decidedly weak spaoimens of the queen of
flowers, were on view. Lady Carington inaugurated the
affair and was the recipient of the customary bouquet,
the National Anthem being also sadly conspicuous in
three sharps. On the evening of the 10th her ladyship
was present at Miss Detchon’s first performance at the
Y.M.C.A. Then the “Judge and Jury ” Club— an institu-
tion which goes in extensively for burlesquing the pro-
ceedings of the Bench and Bar, gave a ball some evenings
ago at West’s Rooms, when the names of the guests pre-
sent read like a chapter from the Book of Numbers. Rose-
hill rae 5 s on the 9th and lOth were fairly patronised by
set
f C't/'T
A w ' T "“' >r o^v».
// v
/ll
J ]
SA[?]
lovers of the sport not over the border, but as these are
not many the attendance was dispiriting’ ; and Balmain
regatta was merely a weariness to the flesh. As for fix-
tures in front—there aren’t any just at present, except
the inaugural performance of the Southern Amateur
Theatrical Society, which is to take place on the 19th, in-
stead of the 21st inst. as I stated last week.
In the S.M.H.’s “Women's Column” a writer, indulg-
ing in a “ retrospect of the Industries,” says of the Aus-
tralian girl: “If her moral courage is not greater than
that of her English sister, her independent will certainly
is, and, having made up her mind to put her foot down,
it is no trifle that will make her budge,” &c. Certainly ;
one short, fleeting glance at the length of the average
Australian girl’s foot will substantiate this statement “ on
the nail,” for
The Australienne may be airy and gay,
And lovely and charming and sweet,
But she can’t go out on a windy day
Because of her long, flat feet.
And if she puts her flat foot down
(Some concession perhaps demanding)
A steam-motor, say, or a two-horse dray
Couldn’t move that understanding.
As I myself am an Australian girl, I coneider myself privi-
leged to say things of this sort.
I have noticed lately that the average Sydney
Bas3iely Mrs. Jellaby feeds the appetite for class distinc-
tions by gumming old-world titles on to Australian social
conditions whenever she possibly can. And here is the
latest evolved in connection with a recent up-country
wedding. “ The bride was the handsome daughter of
Mr. the popular squire of !! ”
High-toned Hibernianiem from the S.M.H. “Cup”
report:—“All society, both of N.S.W. and Victoria, is
here, saving only that portion of it which has remained
at home /” You don’t really say so 1
Apropos of raciDg, I am sorry to hear that the popular
secretary of the Rosebill Racing Club, Mr. G. B. Rowley,
is unable to leave his room through serious indisposition.
He Was very much missed at Rosehill on Saturday, when
one’s eye unconsciously sought for that familiar “ French
grey ” boxer, and found it not.
A correspondent covers I don’t kno w how many sheets
of paper to announce that there is woe in a far N.Z town,
and the cause of all the trouble is the usual fascinating
rink manager, a missing watch, flight, recapture, and all
the prettiest girls in tears, while their roller-skate hero
“sits in solemn silence in a dull, dark dock in a pestilen-
tial prison with a life-long lock.”
The S.M.H. is rapidly getting no better: It opened its
Cup report with the profane remark (put in turned
commas, of course, to tone it down): “ It’s the
condition does it.”
A rumour is being gently whispered in “ sassiety ” that
the individual who gave £2 for Lady Carington’s Norfolk
Island pot of jam has offered to do the vice-regal washing
free of charge, the honour of scrubbing the Government
House soiled linen being more than sufficient recompense
for the trouble incurred. I hear, however, that young
Snobson says that though there may possibly be some
truth in the report, the Baron is not likely to aocept the
magnanimous offer, seeing that his people will be most
happy to pay a small premium for the honour of doing the
vice regal laundry work.
The Hobart Orpheus Club has, I am told, reoeived a
wound in a very tender place. Not long agotheO.C.
aesisted at an entertainment given to augment the funds
of the Wharf Club (an institution organised for the amuse-
ment, instruction, and convenience of men working on
the Hobart wharves), at the close of which two wharf-
labourers, both known as “ Darkey James,” performed a
step-dance. Since then it is simp'y tempting Providence
to enquire of an Orpheus man whether the negro brothers
James are the latest additions to the 0.0. Yet their
righteous indignation is rather inconsistent because, until
quite lately, the members spent much time, troublg, and
burnt cork in copying as closely as possible the sable com-
plexions now despised.
I likewise hear that a Hobart man visiting the North
reports that a oertain reverend gentleman now under
police surveillance for publicly indulging in sun-baths, is
identical with an individual who, under another reverend
alias, successfully duped the bishop, dean, and Hite of
Hobart years agone.
The following atrocious letter has just reached me:—
“Miss Sappho Smith, Sydney. Dear Madam, —I have
some genuine society views. I have discovered that when
boundary-riders and burr-cutters strike it fat at Broken
Hill they don’t forget their poor relations. Some young
lady friends of mine here are delighted with some dresses
they have received from near connections, who are now
‘on velvet’ and doiDg the Block. I have been consulted
as to how they are to whiten their skins and have pre-
scribed soap, but put in Pears’ name to take the rough off
the suggestion. One wretch in this camp told them to
boil themselves in soft soap and seda, but he doesn’t eat
his midday doughboy at our missie’s humpy now. It
would have been a graceful addition to the frocks if a few
other garments had been added. Robes-de-nuit and
calerons-de-bain would have been superfluous. Further
than that, it is now the habit to buy fowls on approval
and win prizes in Wagga before returning them as un-
suitable. There is not much to talk about until after
Cup time.—Yours affectionately, Scotty the Wbinklbr.”
I read that Mrs. l’aran Stevens, a Murkan millionairess,
carries thousands of dollars’ worth of blazing gems done
up in a brown-paper parcel and tied with a white cotton
string. Her argument is that thieves would never sus-
pect that so shabby a looking bundle, carelessly fastened
into a shawl-strap, was worth while carrying away. Also,
that Mrs. Bradley-Martin, one of the codfish aristocracy,
carries her diamonds in a silk-covered hair-cushion that
serves as a bustle.
I see that, after a lengthy discussion, the Sydney School
of Arts Debating Club have been unable to come to a
decision on the question “Is marriage a failure ?” When
the matter does come to a division, it is to be hoped that
only those who have tried matrimony will be permitted to
vote.
The pallid dudelets of Australia will be interested to
learn that the latest fashion in male chapeaux is called
the tottle. It is low in the crown, cone shaped, with a
sharp, skimpy brim. The colours are tans, old-gold
browns and pale brown.
A dejected svam writes to your Sappho complaining
that the lad y of his choice has “ grown cold to varda him,
because he has shave I off his moustache—how can he
regain her affections'? ” Well, simply by growing a
moustache. Everyone kcows the cld Spanish proverb
which announces that “ A kiss without a moustache is
like bread without salt,” and his Duleinea, like the rest of
her kind, probably prefers the course of true love to run
smooth everywhere except on Edwin’s upper lip.
Yours affectionately,
[Interesting' items of fashionable intelligence intended
for tliis column will at all times be thankfully reoeived and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
J)bar Bulletin, —Beyond question lusty young
Queensland holds the field in the matter of Aus-
tralian Nationality, and intends to maintain her
pre-eminence. The latest incident of her sttuggle
with British Imperialism is, like the sabbath tales'
of our childhood, both interesting and instructive.
It is also dramatic to the borders of sensational-
ism, and if properly mounted and put on the
stage would be as good as a silver-boom to an en-
terprising management. Queensland is the proud
but modest-minded possessor of a fleet which con-
sists of a one-goat-power gun-boat and a dingy.
The R N. hero who condescends (for a considera-
tion in money and kind) to boss this little colonial
trifle 13 one Wright, a gentleman with the form of
an undersized tobacco-sign, and the soul of
a hrobisher or a Nelson. He is admirably
suited for the position assigned to him by
fate, for besides the ordinary qualification of never
having seen any service, he enjoys the special
recommendation of possessing a high-toned con-
tempt for these quite too vulgar colonials who
have been so jolter-headed as to employ him.
About a year ago the ‘goin's on,” as the late
lamented Mrs. Brown would say, of this Hadmiral
caused him to knock sparks even out of the tame-
cat government which was concentrated in the
person of S. W. Griffith. The Cymbrian Premier
thereupon conjured spirits from tbe vasty deep or
said he would if the other fellow didn't resign ;
but the lord that rules the Brisbane waters ran up
the Imperial white ensign to his mast head, and
declaring that he took his orders, not from his
local paymasters, but from some semi-defined
branch of British bumbledom, he (metaphorically
speaking) acted very rudely with his extended
fingers and his nose towards the Premier of the
colony. Queensland then enjoyed the advan-
tage of being ruled by a ‘‘sound constitu-
tional lawyer”—a singular person who per-
mitted the defunct Musgrave on more than
one occasion to overrule him in the manage-
ment of public affairs, by the simple pro-
cess; of mumbling sc nr-thing about “ preroga-
tive ” and “constitution ” It is no wonder, then,
that the refractory Wright, R.N., secure under
the fluttering shadow of the Imperial ensign,
scored the first and only victory of his li r e. For
twelve months longer he commanded the Queens-
land navy according to the w'uhes of the British
A.dmiralty, and loftily ignored the coloay—except
on quarter-day. One short year, however,
brought important changes. Sir Samuel Walker
Griffith, K.C M.G , and all the rest of it, was
relegated to that obscurity he was created to
adorn, and the affairs of Queensland were placed
in the hands of an individual who was not a
sound constitutional lawyer.” This psrson hap-
psned, too, to have rather strong opinions in
favour of that very vulgar thing “ Australian
nationality.” The result was speedily apparent.
All the starch was knocked cut of poor old
Musgrave, who proved, after all, to be a
mere saw-dust tyrant, and the constituti nal
right of the Queensland Government to govern
Queensland was “unconstitutionally” maintained.
No wit became the turn of the tobacco-sign. Ex-
perienced salt as he is supposed to be, he did not
mark down on his chart the shallows and the flats
which wrecked the argosy of Anthony, and
vailed her high-top lower than he? rib 3 to kiss her
burial. Or rather (to drop, Wegg-like, into prose)
he didn’t do his XXX best to avoid a row with
the M‘llwraith. On the contrary, he seems to
have courted it—he felt blue-moulded for the
want of a beating, and accordingly he flourished
his black-thorn and trailed his coat in the
most correct mode. For this he was sus-
pended forthwith, and ordered to render up
his accounts. With scorn he refused The
Premier instantly dismi sed—yes, actually dis-
missed—the hero, just as if he were a tutor or a
stable-help, and sent an officer to take charge of
the ship But Hadmiral Wright was tough, sir •
very tough, and devilish sly. He allowed that
officer to come on board; he heard him with
sufficient patience while he made his demand for
the telescope and the key of the locker, and
then, amid the roar of thunder and splendid
lime - light effects, he ran up the over-
worked Imperial ensign and c’aut the officer
under arrest!! This was heroic! It was sublime!
And soWright was justified in pacing the quarter-
deck with all the majesty o' gait which the wrong
side of five-feet-one can command. The sun was
sinking. The semi-tropical glories of the gardens
on either hand were looking their very best. The
city lay cowering before the pod guts over which
fluttered the symbol of Imperial rule Peace was
restored after the stomiy convulsion of tbe day—
peace with honour. Brisbane—Queensland—aye,
all Australia was subdued now, and accepted
with bated breath and whispering humbleness the
proud dominion of the British joke. And there
he stood, the hero of it all; the man who defied
the MTlwraith ; tfee mighty chief who fluttered
the colonial Volsci; he stood inhaling the balm of
the flowers; building castles of rose-coloured
marble in far-off Spain: and ever and anon
returning to the thought of that day’s
victory, with the eoftly-murmured but proud
comment “Alone I did it” And then
two or three policemen came over the vessel’s
side and bundling Captain Wright, R.N.,
and his kit into a boat, rowed him ashore. Sir
Thomas M‘llwraith, by such proceedings, showed
a Philistine s disregard for dramatic unities, as
well as a gross contempt for Constitutional law,
British Imperialism, and the cobweb lace feelings
of the aristocratic small-fry who feed so plentifully
in Australian waters. All this of course. Never-
theless be it known to all whom it may concern
that the clock of Imperial Jingoism in Australia
has been wound up for the last time, and that now
it is running down, slowly but steadily, and that
the hour which sounded the discomfiture of the
Brisbane Commander is one of the few which will
strike before the last stern shock of final doom
tells that British interference in Australian affairs
is a thing of the past.—B.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THI HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
Intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2&d. The action is perfect check repeater.
srd- AU the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord,
itiu They are all Seven Octaves,
fith. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
V
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling
Beale Patent Washer , Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately Bhaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
guffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
Bubmit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the moat delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
tneir clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
tareful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, bo that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY.
48S, 4R4. *wr> 4*6. 'ltuwwt. Svnw»t.
M ELA o R I N O.
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Melachrino it Co., Cairo, and 31 Cockspnr
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dues op Con-
naught, H.R.H. Princb Hknrv of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
„ ARMY and NAVY
CLUB
London
GUARDS’ CLUB ... London
CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY}
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
BLACK WATCH
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
„ COLDSTREAM
GUARDS
...
Windsor
„ ROYAL ENGINEERS}
„ LIFE GUARDS
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
London
and
160 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
warreiT& rowm,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
MANNA, MANILLA and GERMAN CIGARS,
ALSO
Sole Agents for the Cademeno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Alllbod
Doors open 7 Performance 7.46 : Carriages 10.46
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
MR. GEORGE RIGNOLD
And MISS KATE BISHOP
in
THE RAJAH or the COLLIERS’ STRIKE.
Pbiobs, 65., 35., 35., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 19 to 6.
J. P. MACDONALD, AoTima Manaqbb.
L.
Theatre roya
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and MusgrOTß.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Another GREAT SUCCESS achieved by
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
as
TOPSY, TOPSY, TOPSY,
In UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s
B
ON D I
AQUARIUM.
The moßt popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,,
Is. j Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d„
RITERION THEATRE..
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon..
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. MAGEE.
ESTABLISHED SUCCESS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
POWERFUL COMEDY COMPANY
in
Mr. and Mrs. HERMAN MERIVALE’S
IRRESISTIBLE COMEDY
THE BUTLER. THE BOTLER.
THE BUTLER. THE BUTLER.
ADMISSION—6s., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Young men’s Christian associa-
tion-hall, 1
Corner of Pitt and Bathurst Streets.
GREAT SYDNEY SUCCESS
OF '
MISS ADELAIDE DETCHON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
GREAT SYDNEY SUCCESS..
Mustel Organ Solos, Mr. EDWIN BENDING,
Of the Royal Albert-hall, London.
Vocalist, Mb. EDWARD OWEN, R.A.M.
The most artistic and refinßd entertainment eves'
offered to a Sydney public.
Doors open at 7.45 ; commence at 8.15.
Admission- 55., 35,, Is. Box-plan at Paling's.
LIDDY,
IGH ART PHOTOGRAPHY.
H
For artistic posing and effective lighting com-
bining softness with brilliancy, the Photographs
of
& cc.,
Royal Arcade, stand pre-eminently high.
Photographers to His Excellency Lord Carington
By Appointment.”
T
0 NERVOUS SUFFERERS.
What will convince you of the Wonderfui Cura-
tive Properties of the Remedies prepared by the
American Botantic Dispensary if the Remarkable
Cures that have been effected by their aid fail to
impress upon your mind this repeatedly proven
fact ? Thousands are using them, and all declare
that they possess all the virtues, and even more,
than claimed for them. Therefore, if you are run
down, tired, sick in body as well as in mind, do
nothing to patch up the worn-out machinery by
the aid of poisonous drugs, which are only injuring
you, but consult the Chief Physician of this reli-
able Institute and let him prescribe for you. You
will then be certain to obtain that most cherished
boon —Sound, Robust Health. Note the Address,
AMERICAN BOTANIC DISPENSARY, 148
Eorbe>-sbreet v Sydney.
s, FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Batho’i Bakin* Powiiri, Orient Smart Slit,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA ORYSTALB.
SALAD ft CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
OURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PERSIAN SBEBEET,
*o., Ac.
STEAM WORKS;
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
Sydney.
Abridged prospectus
Of a
COMPANY TO PURCHASE A FREEHOLD
Of about 22 ACRES in CITY OF PERTH,
And an
ESTATE of ABOUT TWO HUNDRED ACRES
In SOUTH PERTH,
Subdivided into about 800 blocks, almost
adjoining the City.
Capital—£Booo in 8000 Shares of £1 each.
2-i. on application. 2s. on allotment, and balance
not to exceed Is. per Share per month.
Trustees:
J. J. MARSHALL, Esq , Paddington Brewery,
Paddington
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P., Waverley.
*
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Solicitor :
THOMAS MARSHALL, Esq., Pitt Street.
Brokers :
G. DYSON and CO., Phoenix Chambers, 158 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Directors will be elected at first meeting.
These two valuable properties are placed under
offer for the extremely low sum of £6750, on easy
terms. The extra capital is being raised to prepare
for contingencies, improvements to estates, or
other expenses which may arise.
It is estimated that not more than Bs. or l(b.
will need to be called up.
The 22a. of City Land will subdivide into over
5000 selling feet, with valuable water frontages,
and should readily realise £6OOO.
The Suburban Land is already subdivided into
about 800 quarter-acre blocks, and should realise,
at a low figure, £BOOO.
This estimate of £14,000 is based on present
selling price of the land, and if the property be
held for a couple of years it is estimated double
that price could be realised in subdivision.
Dyson, who has inspected them on behalf of the
proposed Company, for the sum of £6750, and are
being sold under circumstances highly favourable
to the proposed Company.
The expenses of the Company need be very
small, as Mr G. Dyson, who has had considerable
experience in disposing of land in subdivision, and
economically managing estates, will, if the Com-
pany feel disposed to accept his offer, place his
services and offices at their disposal for a nominal
sum, and a commission on profits. To show his
faith in the concern, he is prepared to take from
500 to 1000 shares, should that number be avail-
able.
The Company will be a terminating one, and no
other properties can be purchased without express
sanction of the shareholders.
The 22a. are in a good position right in the city,
and have about 15 chains frontage to the Swan
River; they are adjoining Government reserve,
and close to another reserve for public gardens. It
is about 10 minutes’ walk from the Town-hall, and
can be approached either by macadamised road or
water. Every block of land between this and the
centre of the city, with the exception of Govern-
ment reserves, which almost surround this estate,
is laid out in town lots, and not an acre can be
purchased at the price this is being offered at. As
will be seen by the official plans, very few blocks
of land available for subdivision can be purchased
in the city of Perth, and already such blocks are
being readily bought up by Melbourne and other
speculators, and it may safely be said that in a
few months blocks of land situated as this is, and
of such an area, will be eagerly sought after, but
unobtainable except at a very much higher figure.
The 800 quarter-acre blocks of land are almost
in the city, being but a few chains from the
boundary. It has been carefully inspected, and is
without doubt a valuable estate, being nearly all
elevated and overlooking the city, and the beauti-
ful waters which separate it from the city. It has
frontages to two main roads, and therefore is very
accessible. It is very advantageously sub-divided
into quarter-acre blocks, pegged out and cleared.
The Company will not therefore lose an acre of
land for streets or be put to expense in regard to
subdivision. Estimating each block, which is
66ft. frontage by 165 ft. deep, at £lO (which is a
low estimate), this estate alone would realise
£BOOO, being more than the cost of the two
properties now under offer.
The second reading of the bill as approved by
the Secretary of State for the Colonies to confer
Responsible Government on the colony has been
passed.
The railway from Perth to Albany is almost
completed. The Midland Railway is again com-
menced, and German immigrants are to settle on
land eminently suitable for vineyards, orchards,
and agriculture. The Goldfields are no myth, but
an encouraging and promising reality. The latest
goldfields are only a few days by good road from
Perth, and machinery is now being erected on the
field. Numbers of people are wending their way
daily to them, and it is anticipated that in a few
months a great rush will take place.
All money returned if required number of
Shares are not applied for.
The only expenses the Company, if formed, will
be put to are those attending the formation, which
will be very light.
Plan showing positions of both blocks will ac-
company Prospectus, and any other information
will readily be given at the office of the Brokers,
Messrs. G. DYSON and CO.,
Phoenix
158 Pitt 8
Chambers,
Street, Sydney.
November 1, 1888.
AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manupaotoby :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
im'i
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, In any
material.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, In varloaß
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbino and O’Connell Stbebts.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.—The Economio
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’CONNELL AND SPBINO STBEBTS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs.— Wabdbobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboabd
and Two Cane-Seated Chaibs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spbino Stbebts.
A USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURBc
A VIBY OOMPKIII
Abbobtmini,
Manx quite new deelgai.
Nbwton & Lamb.
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleyß and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.; BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10,155. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
185 feet of hanging spaoe
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
£JANVAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable (or Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low,
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbinq and O’Oonnelii Stbbbtb.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustlo
Oast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
G
ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Abm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
T> ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
165.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Connell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Oonnell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, be»
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. eaeh.
NEWTON and LAMB.


When next you bake try Pemell's Snow-whitb Patkni
Rollib Fu>ub, end your bread will be ae white as mow.
Western Australia is the Coining Colony.
a grand Field for profitable investment
"1 he tiery proMisiny discoveries at Yilgarn and Pil-
burra have led me to pioolaim goldfields at those plaoes,
where there seems every reason tb feel confident that sub-
stantial results will follow the enterprise of the capitalist
ahd miner. . . . The colony is to be congratulated on
the approaching opening of the Beverley-Albany railway.
It will unlock our gates to the world, will accomplish
maily things for us, slid will be the beginning of a Hew
era."—Extract from Governor Broome's speech at opening
of the Legislative Council, Perth.
Send for a flan of
PADDINGTON ESTATE,
PERTH, the Capital of West Australia.
Large Allotments. Good Land. Splendid position.
Frontages to Government Roads.
£lO i: ieii lot. £lO
EASY TERMS, Freehold Lancf. Torrens’ Title.
The Goldfields at Yilgarn, Filburra, Mulga
Mulga are, now proved to be rich and extensive.
Western Australia is on the eve of having Re-
sponsible Government. The Great Southern
Railway is nearly completed. The Midland Rail-
way is to be re-commenced. Capitalists are
turning their attention to this colony. What will
shortly be the result. A repetition of the success-
ful progress of the Eastern Colonies, an increase
of population, and a big rise in the value of pro-
perty, especially in and around Perth. There is
no time like the present. Write for plans to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Mrs. KNOWALL at SIX O’CLOCK at NIGHT.
Hi is
It is no good telling her about the Howk Howe Prepara-
tions, she will have her old way.
“ None but the most foolish would ever be withoub
them.’’—Mrs. A. Sandon, Worm rah Avenue.
£25 will be given to any lady solving the problem in this
picture and written matter ; also, £lOOO for better com-
pounds than our own (one month allowed).
Amerlco Persian Starch Polish A Washing
Cream Co., SYDNEY.
GBP. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
OF
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
BEWARE OF SPURtOtiS I MIT A TtONS.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARENCE STREET.
GF£*D. GBD GBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
THE ITALIAN BEE Co.,
Parramatta, Supplies Italian
Queens and Bees, Extracted
and Comb Honey, Frame
Hives and Implements.
i 1 fl nnn & ven awa y to buyers of a Bottle of Breadalban b
£iU) UUU Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferguson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
: i
IIM
IM3B!
JUST PUBLISHED.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
tar PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED "B-J
BY
The Bulletin’s well-known Artists,
L. Hopkins and Phil. May.
Price - ONE SHILLING.
Per Post, Is. 3d. (except Queensland).
ALL AGENTS.
MR. EGERTON GLAIRMONT is no longer
in our employ, nor is he authorised to
canvas for Subscribers or collect Accounts
Bulletin Newspaper Company, T 'n.ited.
Aboriginalities
Here is a sample of the Spring poetry
published by Alfred Bennett, Esq.—the bountiful
patron of native talent —in his interesting literary
orgaD, the Town and Country Jernel, the print
whereia the bush yokel struggleth all the year
for the bait so artfully offered by an “enter-
Erisiog” proprietary with a keen eye for cheap
terature :
It’s evidently all original—for have we not the
“wattle-bloom”!—but we will give Al f red four-
pence if he will tell us anytime during the next
six months what it means ! This is much batter :
* Anglice— Bark hut.
*
Simon Mobb, an old identity of the Haj
(N.S.W.) district has just died in Melbourne
where he went with his fortune, made in the
palmy da vs. He was a wealthy man before he
was able to sign a cheque Many stories are
told of his skill in dealing. It is related, says »
contemporary, that he once called upon the wealth)
Mr. Ricketson of the Murrumbidgee and pressed
him to deal with him for an article. Being afraie
of Simon he resisted, but at length said “ Well
what do you want for the diamond ring ?” “ Vat
ever you like, ” said Moss, ‘ ‘ I gives it to you at you)
own price.” “Right,” said the buyer, determined
to offer a price so low that Simon would have tr
back out or lose money, “ I’ll give you ten pound
for it.” “ Veil,” said Simon, “ I’m a man of mj
vord, Mr. Ricketzon, I zaid you should hafe it,
und by I sticks to it.” After the trade wa
over and the money paid, the buyer said, “ Now
Moss, you’ve got the money, and it don’t matter
to you; tell me how much the ring cost you?’'
“ Veil, I tells you, Mr. Kicketzon. mitout a vord
of a lie, it cost dree und zixpence.”
• • •
October, 1888.
• • »
Dear Bulletin, —Sorely Bismarck is not
so powerful now that wherever he rules is the hut
of the world ! The Abgus, of Melbourne, now
hails from Homburg. So did I when the rattle of
the bones was heard in the land. Here is an ex
tract: —
SOCIAL GOSSIP FROM HOME.
(FROM a LONDON CORRESPONDENT.)
Homburg, Aug. 24.
For ten days past the Prince of Wales has been hert
making the cure.
Perhaps the “ Benefactor ” or universal provider
of Homburg is Mr. Mackinnon, under the incog.
of Mackenzie. And again
Among the many notabilities of the hunting season not
the least prominent is Sir Samuel Wilson.
Sir Samuel is undoubtedly a great Shikaree, Nim
rod, Harkaway, or whatever suits him best when
he dons the swallow-tail to hunt the wily tuft.—
Yours, Scotty the Wkinkleb.
• •
Dear Bulletin, —The yarn of yonr cor-
respondent “Melbourne,” in a recent issue, as to
the words of Rewi at the storming of Orabau, it
too absurd altogether. Your own version is tht
correct one. As you know, “for ever and eve>
and ever.” in the Maori language, is “Ake-ake
ake.” There are only 14 letters in the Maori
alphabet, five vowels, a-e-i-o-u, eight consonants,
ha-ka-ma-na-pa-ra-ta-wa, and a double consonant,
nga. The letter gas a capital, and v’s and b art
entirely absent. If a Maori wished to say, “ Give
me some tobacco,” he would say, “Homai te
topake,” which has a very different sound from
the “old soldier’s yarn.” In my young days I
was what) is called in New Zealand a Pakeha-
Maori, and lived with the natives for some con-
siderable time I was adopted into the
Ngatiporou tribe, who were ruled by a
woman named Mere Karake (Mary Clarke).
Her husband Rihari (Richard) was consort only
and had no authority in the tribe. Rihari was
second in command at Orakau, and I have often
heard the s lory of its fall from his own lips. He
was very proud of his own share in the great
battle. He was a splendid specimen of the now
nearly eAtiact Maori wArrior. The Ngatiporou
were King natives and Hau Haus, and while with
them I had the pleasure of meeting and conversing
with Rewi (prom Raywee). lalso on one occasion
dined with Te Kooti (pron. T’KAwt and meaning
The Court). Rewi once gave me a long and in-
teresting account of the storming of Rangiripi,
in which pah he held a cjmmand — Trotter
Bethune, Moonee Ponds (Vic ), Oct. 29, 1888.
•
Dear Bulletln, —There is joy in the Chow
camp at Wagga.. At a meeting of the M. P. and
A. Association Committee the subject matter of
discussion was as to the bona Jides of the owner-
ship of some fowls exhibited by a member. The
chairman said: “He might have thought the
birds were his property ” Now John carries his
four-bushel bag of rooste-s past the (late) owner’s
doors and thinks very hard The old ,philosooher
was right, after all. Everything is idea. When
Rok-ah-doo in enjoying his cullied chicken, the
idea is close up to fact. When assimilated with
the chyne and chyle, show me the man who can
extract and identify the fowls.— Hiram A.
The mining boom has burst, but the land
is Bii l thick with swindlers Th -y quarter them
selves everywhere and no lit tie pot of hard-earned
saviors is too tightly held to evade their dutches.
Formidable am mg the tharks is the dishone t
wool-broker - for th-ra are d'shonest wool-brokers
- Slid his turn to trrab his share of the plunder
and grow fat and luxurious is com ng. He works
the made in this wise. The small wool-grower
of the back-blocks consigns to him a few score
CARDINAL NEWMAN.
bales upon which a shdliog per pouod reserve is
placed. The broker writis the grower that a
shilling is too hi<h and suggests tennence. This
is agreed to. Alter a little while he is advised to
come down to eightpenc l , Impatient at the
del »y and sorely in need of cash to appease his
banker he consents to the sacrifice and the broker
pays him eightpeoce and annexes the difference
Bub occasionally the scheme falls through. One
of the growers on whom the fraud was attempted
happened to be in town the other day. and, to
satisfy himself that he was being fairly dealt with,
looked up his wool just as it was bung put up for
sale. He (givine another namt) bought the
whole of it in at per lb. A foitnighb later
he received from his station among other corres-
pondence a communication announcing that his
wool had been disposed of at Bd. per lb and enclos
ing a cheque, less commission. He immediately
confronted the broker, who. finding that he was
bailed up, excused himself by throwing the whole
blame on his clerk. If you cannot float a bogus
mine, become a wool broking shark.
* * •
Dear Bulletin, —The following notice in
writing is posted inside the Orange (N.S.W.)
Court-house:
Take Notice.—Any person found putting their feet on
the pallissading will be punished.
Where are the police ?—Yours, N. F.
Dear Bulletin,-— I have two more colonial
industries to report, and they are both the freest
of free trades. No. I.—Cats are bought at 2s. 6d.
perheadat a certain N.S.W. railway-station. They
make back home when released in the anti-rabbit
interest. With 20 pussies the income is £2 10a.
per week, and it can be supplemented by writing
the Paris letter for popular weekly, &c. The
necessary capital is, therefore, only—permission
to camp near a slaughter-yard. No. 2.—For 2a.
6d. entry and 10a. annual subscription you can
join the Shearers’ Union. At every shearers’ hut
you can get enough flour, tea, and sugar to do for
a week. Thus, by travelling round for three
months, you amass tucker for the other nine,
which you stow away in a hut on the river. By
shamming sick at a big shed, your brother
Unionists are easily induced to send the hat
round, and there you are. Both of these trades
are, like shearing, “nowin full swing.”—Yours,
SdoTTv the Wrinkler.
• ♦
A Queensland paper reports :
Ncrmantdri arid its viciriity is d nice place for a rnan to
live in, because he can always die a violent death
with t,he knowledge that no inquiry .will beheld to dis-
turb the repose pf his remains,, Some time ago a boy
died, or was killed, in the main, street, and he was
promptly rushed into the grave,and no questions asked.
Then a.man died,in fhe bush a mile or two from the town,
and, was partly eaten by diagoss. This fact saved a lot of
trouble, for. as there was only ab mt three feet of him
left, it wasn’t necessary to dig a grave of any size. Next
the Sub-collentor of Customs fell eft something, or else
was shoved oft, and perished comfortably It wasn't any-
body’s business, so he was also jerked into the sspulobre,
and nothing ensued. You oan always get agreeably
assassinated at the Gulf, and the authorities can invari-
ably be relied on to let the whole affair slide into oblivion
to save trouble and mental wear and tear.
* * *
Daar Bulletin, — Ibis npt so gay a spree
as yoq might imagine, to be a pastoral lessee in
N-S.W. these days. There was a time, I believe,
when the squatter owned the run standing in his
name, but that was in the long ago, and he is
never likely to do anything of the kind again
Nowadays he is only a dummy acting for some
big pawn-broking institution or alleged “bank,”
and he occupies a position which is very difficult
to define. If he has a good year he is no better off
than before, for the “bank ’’ absorbs the profits ;
if he has a bad year he goes through the Insol-
vency Court to try and squire up his difficulties,
and the “bank ” declares a dividend of 8 per cent,
par annum with its customary affability, also a
bonus of 2Jj per cent. ; and carries an amount
equal to dividend and bonus combined to the
credit of a fund for the equalisation of dividends,
and also adds something to the reserve and carries
the rest forward. If you take up a daily paper
anywhere you will find its columns filled wifcl
long lists of financial companies old and new, com
panies projected, companies in course of forma-
tion, companies in all stages of development, anc
there seems to be ho end of them. W ith us nov
the cats are dying, the rabbits are dyirig, th'
’possums and kangaroo 3 are dying, even the pa?
toralists themselves are dying, but the “ banks ’
prosper and get more numerous every day, and
their dividends grow larger and their director
more corpulent, and everything is gay. To be a
bloated “ squattah ” now isn’t the thing that it i
cracked up to be, dear Bulletin. If you have i
son better bring him up to be a “bank.” —Yours
&c., Squattah.
There is a rumour of a little hanky-pankj
in connection with the Sunny Corner mine.
The Jubilee guzzle cost the Corporation o'
London £11,600 18s. Id. Poor, mulish John Bull 1
Dear Bulletin, —la that fine example o'
assassinated English, Lord Smith’s last vice-regal
address, the N.S.W. Governor complacently
observes :
It has now bean satisfactorily proyed that the work of
irrigation may be successfully applied to unproductive
lands, so as to effect their fertilization and render then
capable of remunerative cultivation.
Here, indeed, is a marvellous discovery, just made
by the great Parkes in the hundredth year of the
colony of N.S. Wales What though the meanest
Chinese cabbage-raiser will tell you that the be
nighted pagans of the East successfully practised
the art of irrigation (not parliamentary or throat
irrigation, but common or garden irrigation) ovei
40 centuries ago ! Those people are all dead
while the great Parkes is alive, and he has in-
vented irrigation— now, at a time when a pack of
miserable mummies haven’t energy enough left tc
discover a way of wriggling out of their respectivt
dead-houses. All glory be to the great Hi Ham,
therefore, for his marvellous ingenuity, and let
the people show their true appreciation of his
worth by erecting statues of irrigated mud to his
honour in every idiot-asylum from Carpentaria’s
Gulf to Wilson’s Promontory.— Bananaman.
“SPRINGTIME.
“ Never too late Spiring wakens
Earth, in chill winters hold,
Blighte 1, yet still the wattle
Puts forth its bloom of gold;
Hi 'den in withered branches
Germen of beauty lies,
Bursting through dark encasements,
When torched by suitimer skies.
“ And, not in vain I kntjjw thee,
~ Life grows a noble aim,
Pute as that light of pureness
Glows in thy soul, whore flame
Burneth the dross f rorh silver,
Till from, life's eait Jy care,
Worthy of true Refiner,
Cometh a vessel fair.
MILL BROOK."
THE SPRINGTIDE POET.
(AFTER “MILLBROOK.”)
Ever too la tie he wakens
Olad in his garments old ;
Blighted, yet still the bottle
Flushes his dreams with gold
Hidden in ruined ranches,
Germen of D.T. lies
Thirsting in bark “ encasement ” *
When goaded by summer flie3.
And not in print we know thee,
Rum has a “ nobbier ” aim,
Pure as that light of genius
Glows in thy nose, whose flame
Burneth the wings from “ skeeber ”
Till from life’s earthly care
Worbhy of true “ Jamacia ”
Droopeth a poet fair.
H.H.C.
LACHLAN SIDE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Region of damper and “junk” and tea,
Region of pastures wide !
The fairest spots in the world to me
Are out in the Lachlan Side
I’m off to the Lachlan Side,
Where the bright lagoons are wide ;
I long for river and grass and tree
And someone dearer than all to me,
Far out on the Lachlan Side.
My heart was hardened against advice
And reason I would not see,
For by the ocean a paradise
The city appeared to me.
(Chorus).
“Not I for a bumpkin’s fate,” I cried,
“ I’ll not be a country clown !
A life’s too slow on the Lachlan Side;
I’ll go to the shining town !”
I’ve lost the battle, I strike the flag,
The town may sink in the tide ;
A wiser head and a lighter swag
I take to the Lachlan Side.
When crops of wool on the plains shall grow,
Shall flourish in drought or rain,
And when the shearers begin to mow
I’ll come to the town again.
But now I go to a kinder fate.
If her love still conquers pride ;
Her heart was true when she sobbed “ I’ll wait
For you on the Lachlan Side.
HENRY LAWSON.


Business Announcements.
tar TJEiHI OISTL Y ■«
MUSIC&L ]IS!RU«EHT
Dirsei Supply Association!
658 George Street, 658
658 Colonnade, 658
6 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
obhers.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. 6d. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Lachenal 355.
~ ,) ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box 21s.
The finest show of ACCOKDEONS to be seen
n the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s. Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. 6d.
Patent Steel ~ ~ ... 355. Od.
, 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/ , 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents In Australia
FOB
Signor Zampananl’s
CELEBRATED
Mil Mil STEMS,
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
guitar, Cello, Viola Double Base, Harp,
Zithar, k, Sic.
i Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
*lia, having by the last American Mail received
i extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 » >» »» ®4 10/-.
IGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
RASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
pon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
ecial lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
ruinents packed carefully and sent to any part of
e colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
GUIS SIBAOSISEII, Manager,
- Snorge Street,
SYDNEY.
The land-sharks of Melbourne have been
very properly rushed into giving £lOO apiece to
the Hospital.
A Lovbly and Dblicatb Complexion.— This Is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Fori, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Ronslllon, Madeira.
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled Hlgh-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 Georg a-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near Klng.street.*
E C ELEY
mmm ■ W n Ira iaiim I
I*B
&
$
O
<<
A
<b
0
&
v
V
V
&
&
$
&
o
9
o
V
O
$
V
<2?
&
A
o
<b
&
V s
O
<< N
<s
jO
Q
390 t GEORGE S T
The beautiful new Melbourne Morgue is
now opeD. Splendid accommodation for “Gup”
suicides.
To celebrate the destruction of Don Guido
Fawkes 200 Orangemen in full canonicals with the
“Secret of England’s Greatness” borne cn a
velvet cushion, in front, inarched last Sunday week
from Darlington to Si. Barnabas’ Church, Sydney.
Isn’t 1 his a breach of the Party Processions Act?
William's Australian Insecticide 1b death to all Insects.
Simple in application—sure In effeot. This la the only
genuine Inseot Destroying Powder, being oertain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseoticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold In
Is. boxes by all ohemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
K
/Scents ,
el
O
11+
s
o
T
O
U
T
DEUSSAs, PHILLIPS
3Barrack Street.
TEA AND EASTERN MERC RANTS
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
EXBCTJTB
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUTINS OP TEAS.
to:
INDENTS ARB EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence*
FiRLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS ?
16 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Sala Agents lov the above for New South Wales and Qneeas'aad.
Also Importers of Requisites fot the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, Including Machine™
imported Leathers, &o. I and of the following Spoolal LinesPEERLESS GLOSS SATIN Pnr.Tim
WbTAN RLAOKINO I Tool. ..r 1 Material'. Tndeat. wmSiwl S FwiaSble T«n2’
DR. RICHARDS,
nsuct[n^°o|L|t
CO
D ■? RICH ARDS
rw^
m
?■?
. - ■■
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
Trivate, nervous, and skin
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
Who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more mature age, blad-
der difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sedh
ment in the water, accompanied by slight
burning or smarting sensation, Headaches,
Drowsiness during the day, circles around
the eyes, Giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness,
discontentedness, weakness or pains in the back,
Liver or Kidney complaints, dreams, buzzing
noises in the ears and head, pimples, a fear that
something dreadful is about to happen, weak
stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure blood,
hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, who
cannot honourably marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expense. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general informa-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the Doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
opinion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all propability,
assist you materially in describing your ail-
ment. Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest
remedies, and never prescribes mercury under any
circumstances. The moment letters are carefully
perused and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases will
remain a secret between the doctor and themselves.
Dr. Richards has successfully treated nearly 25,000
cases since coming to Australia, and has permis-
sion from at least 10,000 persons to show their
written evidence of his success. All communica-
tions should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
7 Spr ing Street, Sydney
off Pitt Street North).
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
Consultation Free.
THE LIMIT.
SHE: “WHAT'S YOU R OPINION OF THE LIMIT OF LOVE?
HE: “MATRIMONY, MY DEAR.”— N.Y. LIFE.


Business Announcements
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
B 11 UNTO IPS
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOTJR
Dm be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 84 Pitt Stmbs.
BRISBANE... ...Edward Stems,
HBLROURNI 'lipuwu** Rmvr.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured 1
The Greatest Success! / All Chronic Disease
of Modern Times. / \ are Curable.
Hr, H, L EUSELHANN, Consulting Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never fails to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands morel
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1880
to B. E. Kugblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank E. E. Knight,
of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
In Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although I failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that I was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
Informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for. five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
cines, as all I had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly informed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated Lungs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ourable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
pectorated many quarts of blood and matter from my
lungs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
Informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which I gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
oulous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until 1 was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E E
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. C. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 1886, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
IS" All Consultations Free. TgJi
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given whioh
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
4 IDTmill BElim
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Doloreux, Aching Fains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Fains when one
bottle of
DR. 80UTHAM 8 RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure In a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change In diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 3s. 6d., 55., and 18s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION,
This Lotion la the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only oures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who hare recovered through
Itsagency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. i. ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Georaro-street, only
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years,, Publisher, Bulletin
office.
t HOTEL,
OOBNEB OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
XI
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
r
CKOVS
'U„
ipilllllCl® ii
tj l a,!. ilVh'i ,<•;. , ■
ft * TW*i
!W'
II s
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel)
Proprietress.
> I TBE
'PLUM"
£ftazor.
THE
“ PL UM "
Razor.
FOR I nvate Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price- Single Razor *los fid
» a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order. K ’ ‘ b “"
CRAIG & AfITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon.
Nine Haircutters always Employed ! -ffil
68 0 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
BENTON’S Silver Lever WATCHES.
The W orking Maits Watch A Mound and Reliable Timekeeper. A Genuine English-
made Article, and the Cheapest and Best Watch in the Market.
TO BE HAD FROM ALL WATCHMaKERS in TOWNand COUNTRY. TO!
Wholesale Agents :
WOLFF, ABEL & CO., 63 YORK STREET, Sydney.
3E 1 erdriau «§& Co 7
jINDIA RUBBER MARUFACTURERB,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washebs, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purpose!
Lists and Samples on Application.
/* consequent of Imitations cf THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which aft calculated to deceive the Puttie, Lea and
have ta request that Purchasers see that the Label m'emng Jtfft
tears their Signature thus**
ntth&it fbhich 90 bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask fof LEA and PERRIfJS? Saute, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle «t M
St ° P^ r \, end for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester * Crosse «W
"toemell, London, &e.,&c. j and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
'SSateaSupfti Hanancssm, tesw i Qu p«ffc cam *
'W'liat is 37-0-0. r HoToToy^
iJ
55
Most people have one of
some sort. If you don’t
happen to have one, or
if you have been indulg-
ing in one which returns
but a poor satisfaction for
your outlay, get rid of it
as soon as possible. Better
be without than keep a
bad one. -If you have a
taste for Aut : if you
want a remunerative
hobby—try
Photography !
Instruments and Materials are not the costly toys they were. Anyone can learn it every-
one can profit by it. The cost of every requisite for a beginner is so low it will surprise you.
-! : J-
SATISFY YOURSELF BY A VISIT TO OUR
WHOLESALE w PHOTOGRAPHIC WAREHOUSES.
LICHTNER & CO.,
2 4 O’CONNELL S THE ET, SYDNEY,
ANI) *
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Albert Street, BRISBANE.
£ST Send 2d. Stamp for our Illustrated Instruction Book and-Catalogue; " TIIE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER "
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE*
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 17 Via,,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... m 41,069,001
Paid-up and Subscribed ... m 488,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K. 0.8, Chairman,
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For B years _ 7 per cent. I For 1 year _ 6 per oent
For 6 months ( per oect. | For S months _ B per oent
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the oorporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST oharge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, eto., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auotion and
Private Contract.
Hiad OHIO!— 10, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Ast, 1871.
CAPITAL, 4609, 1 N.
Sydney Offioe,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per oent.
® H ® II
12 7 „
And a Bonus deolared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per oent. 6 months lj per cent.
Arrangements oan be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors,
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager,
A. MILLER, Accountant.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan A Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £600,000.
Sydney Offices: Corner of Met A York Streets.
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department,
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms.
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds o t
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per oent.; six
months, 6 per oent.; and three months, 5 per oent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Business Announcements.
Klin
Cabinet Size (with Appropriate Mottoes)
Is. Each; 'per Post, Is. Id.
THE MOST ARTISTIC SERIES PUBLISHED.
11. King, Photographer, .il<; George St., Sydney,
BETWEEN O P.O, AND HUNTER STREETS,
TATTERSALL’B
voxstes coihltatioii
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, ono
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.— Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin 'Office.
AUSTRALIAN
Christmas Card Series,


For Nervous Debility
USB horbford’s acid phosphate.
Dr. Alex. S, Ogo, Government Medical Offioer,
Gundagai, N.S.W., says: “ I have the greatest confidence
n recommending it in nervous debility, and in all cases
where the system has become debilitated from disease.
As a ervous tonic it is unsurpassed."
i
gs ami
“ They fit perfectly, and art
far superior to all the other
I Corsets I have tried."
I (Signed) Mane Rote.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Stas Corset
Will not Split in the Seams nor
tear in the Fabrio.
Exquisite Model, Perfect
Comfort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y & N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 110,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 11
Bold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters.
BOSISTO’S ORIGINAL AND GENUINE
EUCALYPTUS OIL is the best Remedy
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Sprains,
Chilblains, Whooping Cough, Asthma, Croup,
Bronchitis, Sore Throat, &c. Preserves furs from
moths. In the stable it is valuable for broken
knees, cuts, &c., whilst it keeps off the attacks of
flies. Ask for Bosisto’s ‘'Parrot” brand, and
avoid imitations, which can only lead to disap-
pointment. Full directions with each bottle. At
all chemists. Boßisto’s 11 Parrot ” brand.
£2O
BUCKBOARD BUGGIES
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboard
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in. deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, GOULBURN, N.S.W.
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for commercial
gentlemen and others. Private sitting rooms,
ample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the erection of two gates, 8 chains post and rai
fencing, 3 miles 12 chains fencing of posts and 4 wires, and attaching wire netting to about 3 miles
20 chains fencing—between a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonie3 of New South Wales
and South Australia, near a mile post marked “131,” and a point on the said boundary line
about 20 chains north of a mile post marked “134.” .
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to Messrs. George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers,
Currie-street, Adelaide ; and the Mining Registrar, Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-
„, 00, Section S." JAMES K BRUNKER.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until ll o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December,
1888, from persons willing to contract) for the er. cbion of ore gate, 4 chains post and rail
fencing, 43 miles 40 chains fencing of posts and 3 wires, repairing 82 mil s of ex sting fences, ana
attaching wire.-net'ing to about 75 mi es 40 chains fencing—between a point on the bollndaty Itie
dividing the Colonies of New Soiith Walts, and South Australia, near a mile po-t marked 180,
and a point on the said boundary, libe about 40 chaifils north of a rtiile post marl fid “ 258. ,
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forril3 of Tender rtiay be dotained At the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and uro'n application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia; Messrs;
George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide; and the Mining Reg'stidr,
Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will rot necessarily be accepted. , , , . . , ,
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed, “ Tender foi Rabbit-
pro./ M. Action V BKtNfegß.
Department of Lands, Sydney, 2.lrd October,
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4ih day of December,
1888. from persons willing to contract for the erection of two gates, 8 chains post and rail
fencing, 26 miles fencing of posts and 3 wires, repairing 5 miles 40 chains of existing fences, removing
1 mile 60 chains old fencing of posts and 3 wires, and attaching wire-netting to about 31 miles 40
chains fencing,—between a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and
South Australia, about 40 chains north of a mile-posb marked “ 258,” and the 290th-mile post on the
said boundary line. • . T
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia; Messrs.
George Ferguson & Co.. Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide; and the Mining Registrar, Silverton.
The lowest or any Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit
proof Fencing, Section S.” JAM ES BKITNKER>
T
Department of Lands, Sydney, 23rd October, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RAB BIT-PROOF FENCING.
ENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 4th day of December
1888 from persons willing to contract for the erection of three gates, 12 chains post and rai*
fencing, 26 miles 20 chains fencing of posts and 3 wires altering, repairing, &c., 30 miles of existing
fences, and attaching wire-netting to about 55 miles 20 chains fencing,—between the 2!)0oh-mile post on
thelounclary line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South Australia, and the south-west
corner of the Colony of Queensland. .
Specifications, plans, general conditions, and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent at Wilcannia ; Messrs.
George Ferguson and Co , Unity Chambers, Carry-street, Adelaide ; and the Mining Registrar,
Silvirton.
The lowest or any Tender w 11 not nec< ssarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary fo: L \nds, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-proof
Fencing, Section 9.” J AM ES BRUNKER.
9Y<®
mw BILUARf TABLE SHOW ROOMS Se FACTORY,
mMLIARE CUSHIONS, *o. 8 MADE ON THE PREMISES.
■®M Tables re-fitted by our own men
Mgm OTIS,BALLS iffi stock, also CBICKET, LAWN TENNIS ft IfM
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
?, UtUt Geo# Street, SYBSET, ».S.fMil Sohc Square, MSMB.
ZBIESISB-A-MTE § HOTEL,
L A U|H CEBTOH, TASMANIA.
Proprietor.
OWines, FrenciiULiquors & Hiranna Cigars alSpeciality «. r c House, Cuisine Francaise,
ftowlandtf
VfaeaAdarOil
_ m**~*r- fodra.nt.ifiar o
sffiss^SaStoWAaxss:
BS3&&S3SB S3j#r SSS&Si.'SffiKi
34 It eipecially recommended tor children m jormmg w wu
m® ®l»o be had in a
d a"iau atffSKWEsss
soil. 6d.; and double that size, 21«.
ROWLANDS' KAIYDOR to a Ihealing and «Wgt
She face, hands and arms; it eradicates tncUe§,t*a, and dilicat®
at the skin, pimplea, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produce! a
ROWLANDS' ODONTO wMtenetJi® teeth, preraat* mn<S arrests decay,
AW a^oid b^rion. A taii“^n. e "nder
atreni
BO’W
similar name*.
Wholesale and Retell Agents—Eimoot B»Oi
rad I, Flomu ft Oo„ Bfdneyi
NOT TO BE BLATTERED.
PERMANENT ARTILLERYMAN (wanting a beer): “SAY. BOSS. SMART CORPS OF
YOURS, SAW ’EM DRILL THIS AFTERNOON—FACT THEY BEAT US”
VOLUNTEER ARTILLERYMAN: “’COURSE THEY DO; THEY DON’T DRINK SO
MUCH LONG BEER AS YOU. Enters 6d. Bar
The coming dissolution of the Victorian
Aseemb’.y it casting shadows before. A funny
shadow is the poking of an Oppo ition pamphlet
under the susceptible elector’s front door, said
pamphlet being the true and particular account of
a certain “Banquet in Recognition of the Personal
Merits and Public Services of The Honourable
Thonr as Bent.” This trstoric ceremony orcurred
last May, and was managed by a snug clique of
patriots who whitewashed Thomas and were, in
return, whitewashed by him, until the driven
snow was a fool to them. The meeting ultimately
dispersed in a decidedly wet condition with a
muzzy conviction that some “ Age slander ” had
been “refuted,” and the world has since gone on
as usual:
Editor BuLtikixit Sir,— By no means a
bad sketch Mrould be half-a-do2m imthense rail-
way-engines—lady delegates—drawing one insig-
nibcaflt little waggon—the N.S. W. Women’s
Indufct.ial Exhibition. As an exhibition of the
wdrk of the womeii of the colony it was a failure.
Mdst Women appear to have been too sensible to
send their work, but a few innocents, inex-
perienced in the wdys of “the Points,” brought
fcieir work to the building in Prince Alfred
Pai-k, there to meet with scant courtesy, sickening
condescension, or to be completely ignored Had
a few good womanly women, like Lady Cadng-
ton, Lady Martin, the Mayoress, and some othe rs
who appeared, amid the general mismanagement,
personifications of gentleness and courtesy, been
at the head of affairs, with only professional women
to help them, the Exhibition might have been a
success In all affairs of this kind we may notice
in the very front rank women who are Utterly
UaV’le to influence their fellow-women, unless it
be to provoke them —I am, yours, etc., MAR-
GAREt H.
A caak who lately suicided in New Zea-
land lrft instructions that his head should be seat
to Professor Halford, the Melbourne anatomist.
Which biings to our memory a gruesome dispute
aboubadtad man’s brains, in which the learned
Professor figured. Some years ago an attempt
was made, in broad day-light, by some armed
ruffians, to stick up the E.S. and A.C. Bank in
George-streeb, Fitzroy (Vic.) The attempt was
frustrated by the pluck of Mr. John Dowling, the
manager (afterwards chief of the head-office in
Sydney), now dead, and the muscular Mr. De
Jersey Grut, armed with a certain heavy brass
candlestick Two of the would-be robbers, Woods
and Carver, were convicted and sentenced to be
hanged. About this time a tragedy was enacted
in front of the Public Works office, in Lonsfale-
streeb. Two men, partners in a Government con-
tract, had come bo a dispute over the business.
The one who held the cash refused to part the
men’s wages; the other, a sensitive, honourable
man, exasperated at this, and harassed by men
importuning him for money, made a final demand
for cash, and on its being refused drew a revolver
andshobhispartnerdead. Hewastried, convicted,
and sentenced to the scaffold. Strenuous efforts
were made to save him on the grounds of insanity,
most of the medical experts being of opinion that
his brain was diseased Little doubt existed at
the time that he would have been saved but for
the unfortunate fact that Woods and Carver were
to die, and they had actually killed no one.
Harrison had, and all three had been convicted at
the same Sessions and were to be hanged upon the
same morning. Sir James M'Culloch, who was
Chief Secretary, declared he could not see his way
to save one while the others had to go, and so all
three went—Woods dancing a hornpipe and sing-
ing an obscene song a few moments before he gave
the community their great Moral Lesson. At the
post-mortem examination by some means the brain
of Harrison was clandestinely taken from the
operating-room and brought before a meeting of
medical men presided over by Professor Halford,
who had been most energetic in his efforts to save
the man’s life. This meeting was being held in a
room over the book-store of George Robertson, in
Collins-streeb, when Claude Farie, the sheriff
of the day, suddenly made his appearance
with an order from the Chief Secrete ry for
the “brains,” alleging that they were Government
property—in fact, they were the “ Government’s
brains,” and the Government was waiting for
them The faculty for a time declined 10 sur-
render the disputed assets, but the Sheriff even-
tually succeeded in recovering h's stolen treasure,
the professor and his colleagues being candid
enough to admit that there was no disease ap-
parent Dr. M'Crea Government medical
officer, by whom Sir James M'Calloch “swore,”
had declared all through that he would stake his
reputation there was no disc ase.
A Northern paper has some prison-
sketches by “one who has been there” Who
said we did not believe in capital punisbm- nt ?
This man lias “ drawn,” let him now be “ hanged
and quartered.”
Tuck, Chong, and Co. speak In the columns
of the S. M. Herald i
TDUBLIti NOTICE—The business of the firm of
Tuclp Chong, ami Co:, of Iff George-street, Syd-
ney, has closed ; liabilities discharged and debts col-
lec ed: All accounts against the said firm are re-
quested to seed in their bills before isth instant,
otherwise we refuse to pay, for we leave the colony
after the date afcove mentiot ed. Tuck, Chong, and
Co.
Afte r that, who will say that the Chow is not
fitted for the highest walks of commerce? There
is a sledge hammer vigour ab ut the way in which
Tuck, Chong, and Co. refuss to pay unless “all
accounts fend in their bills” promptly, which
mike s us think that the iavoice which didn’t for-
ward ids statement in pcod time would stand a
fair show to be It ft.


Hotels.
Centennial Hotel,
SOOTT AND HUNTER STREETS,
Newcastle.
Wines, Beers, and Spirits a Speciality.
Cold, and Showeb-Baths on each Flat.
BILLIARDS ! BILLIARDS J
'PHIS Hotel Is now opened, and admitted to be
A- the Best Fitted and Furnished Hotel in the
It is beautifully situated, being directly
ite the Steamers’ Wharf and adjacent to the
w-dlway Station, and convenient to all the Public
j-Wldings. A porter meets all trains and steamers,
and telegrams promptly attended to.
WALTER SIDNEY, Proprietor.
A/rOUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENS-
LAND.
tinder the distinguished patronage of His Ex-
**uency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C M.G. Accommo-
■jjtton for 60 visitors. Two-storey buildings. From
P® balconies a splendid view can be obtained of
?? Celebrated mountain of gold, and within a few
®JJntes’ walk of the company’s works. Passenger
25? mail coaches daily from Rockhampton and
railway-stations. W. MONCKTON, Pro-
ctor, of the firm of Monckton and Co.
MOUNT MORGAN.
tiiansland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
jtRIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
Is now ready for the reception of visitors.
JJery comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiseb, Proprietress.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURE.
Railway Tebmincs, Spenceb Stbbet,
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
SMfind all modern improvements, Buch as light,
and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
Bmoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
beedle baths passenger elevator, electric bells,
jrjcphone, and all other hotel requisites, not to be
Sussed in Australia. Visitors can rely upon
called for early morning trains. Letters
Wegramß promptly attended to. Prices very
PETER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor.
Medical.
DR. SPEER’S
Origan dispensary 42 margaret street
{?***een George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr,
t* 8 * Is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
I®*®* 4 ®* January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
2*®toe, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
2* *0 the study 0! CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
diseases. Four of these were in the leading
P'tals of the United States, which enables him to treat
°°tt“plaints with excellent results. All applying to
mil receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
I ; no Mercury used. He will guarantee
cure in every case he undertakes, or forfeit
reason for'doing so is this—when there is no
I® oX C disease, and nothing but an inorganic trouble, or,
k 06*+ e - f w °rds, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
reBU lt, there is no reason why it cannot be re-
tts ®? With the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees,
to it distinctly understood that he does not olaim
m impossibilities, or to have miraculous power,
A.'“airns onlv to be a skilled and successful Dhvsiciau
7*U| Iw ** VMUCu (VU IIUUIC, AUC VA/UiOU Mowviuvuu
o way interfere with their business. Examina-
2®»b» » advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J.
"Usef “i-b., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
It, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours,
*1 u,•to 12 a.m. ; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays from
«. ■k-m. only.
illtp PEBBORIPTIONB are to
b e found lu the “LIGHT AND
If®.” for the Speedy Cure of NERVOUS DEE
and Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of
will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Address —
S. WARD & GO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter Street Sydney.
W'-'r
Eucalyptc 0/x.^s.
? MTn
Victory Ointments
tree of life.
Business Announcements
LAST WEEK! LAST WEEK!
HATS. HATS. HATS.
EXPIRATION OF LEASE.
20 per cent. DISCOUNT for one month ONLY.
Our noted Guinea Silk Hats at 17s.
Our noted Half-guinea Felts at Bs. 6d.
Straws, 3s. 6d., 4s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. at 2s. 9d., 3s.
6d., and 4s. 64.
Pullover Cork Helmets, 12s. 6d at 10s. 6d.
MORLEY’S BEST HOSIERY at cost price.
UMBRELLAS, &c., at cost.
C F. PRIDDY and Co.,
438 GEORGE STREET, 438
(nearly opposite Lassetter’s)
• AND
662 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL.
LAST WEEK! LAST WEEK!
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE R£o.
Study Freon***
•nrt
B*»e your Umbrella Pr«ee**
ctrrered. and yow
F»ra*Ol» re-lined and nuUlaufT
to New, ri
J SULLIVAIT-
Ml George Street
Brickfield Hill, fcetwW*
Liverpool aud- Batburt
i'arasola made to mate:*:
Torr***’ R*»T**fr9 nfatjf -
T
O RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
160,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES.
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN Sc 00., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, HYGIENI °
It contains Information most Valuable In
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight In
Sold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
’ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBT,
Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpenoe per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George Street, or [from the runners in
the street.
03UHTCASTI£*s%
MANUFACTURINGHATTESS
GEO RGF STREET
SYDNEY
' PORTERS OF All THE
NEWESTSNAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE,
i>A*
%
Vi
OBTAIN CD .A.
FIRST CLASS AWARD
HIGHEST DECFEt OF MERIT
.
WW
,
* ■ M
Wgm.
ISTHEB ESTIMB LWJ3RLD IS
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUGH’S
HE CE i VEO’TH E [ N TC RN ATI ON A L
... PR, \ X E M e oA l
MANUFACTURED ifcYjAMESI
■"HARBOUAiSIi
SoU by Alt CrpctrußittflrihMtsts
Business % nnonn cements,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
VP
PATENT
a
PILLS
*
£
r
<fe
m
Are Tmirersally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nerroua
Disorders such as
Wind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling'
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
< old Chills,Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costireness,
Scurry and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Herrons and Tremb-
tog Sensations, Ac. The first dose will gire relief
In twenty minutes.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Per females of all ages these Pills are invariable,
M a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
bs without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. Tf taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will *oon restore females o* all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
ar» ensured by their use.
Per a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion and all
Disorders of the Inver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of
appetite, and arouse into action with the rosebud
of health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes cf society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BK3SORAifPS PILLS have the Largeet Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beeeham’s Magic Cough Pills.
A* a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheesing, Ac., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
OCtFQH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helene, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.
Bold by all Dru'gists and Patent Medicine
3Deal«x everywhere.
M»B. —Full directions are given with each box.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND,
Sydney Branches i
II PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund 600,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Qanan», i»dd can offer speoial facilities for dealing
to Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts Issued and Bills oc’looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates whloh can be ascertained on
application,
’ m N. F. GIBLIfv Acting Manager.
OIENOE CONQUERS DISEASE,!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mob* MERCURY ob otheb Noxioub
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr* [T - C. W RIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
"EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Speoial oomplaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified praotitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physioiac *nd Surgeon, has
establis’ d the
Victorian Progressive Medical lru»MniM»”c
} 68, FLINDERS STREET. WEST, MELBOURNE,
lor the scientific and efieotual cure of all phases of Ner«
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
> Dr. Wright oures Fits, Spinal Oomplaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Kraptions, Premature Decay, Inoapaoity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Afieo-
lions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get bis
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is onrable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effeotlng a
onre. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yours that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Batterers can be treated equally well at a distance.
jj.jj.—I wish It distinotly understood that Ido not olalm
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraoulous power.
I olalm only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speoiality.
Note Address—
rao&ESSsiTE mm institute,
68, Flindkbs Btbkbt W., Mblboubnb.
gar Mo connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 868. G.P.O.
WANTED, Vllea of The Bulletin tor the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout
FIRST QUALITY.
WTO*
N
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOUS PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Ealctan, Johnston & Co,,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, irIMK
Robert butcher « oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine Hi
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, In and out* «|
Bond at LOWEST RATEE
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
B. STEPHENSON
HAS OH BA LB-
WTNE OASES, BREWERS’ OASES, VAIN
RUM, SHERRY, tc WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, fco.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 171 SUSSEX STUNS)
Between King and Market Streets.
'«m> mfm« UoMtieke msA Wklskim. upon «rrn
■fiwrrtfAfr*. t
Bayd’c Mean B Mi&ir Aid this, t
\and will do it on either bald ]
heed or bare face- Forces
heavy Moustache in from 9 to i
4 weeks and never fails, 20,000*
young men already wear full
(SbjWfekML.
beard*, having used 1 to 3 pktc. No injury, easily applied, oerUrtQ
in effect. Packets, 10. fid. oach, 2 for Si, 6 poet paid, sent undo?
*over, free from observation* Address, lltaragUo* SoU Agouti*
Bot, Y3O, G P. 0., ttydno y L N.B. W.
Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin
PITT STRBBT.
Miittwai am Bin
JOHN BUCKHAB,
„ 886 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Mbr WV
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and Waggoa
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buokets all sizes, at lowest prioes.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JTO3EC2T BUCKHAM,
886 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
"FOR FRAMING A PICTURE NEAT
AND WELL."
D BERNARD’S Piotubb and Moulding
• Stqbe, 899 George-street (opposite Royal
Hotel), is acknowledged to be the Best and
Cheapest in the Colonies. Photos., Engravings,
&0., carefully stretched and mounted. Re-gilding
equal to new. Mounts cut with real gold edges.
Special attention paid Sohool Drawings. Plnßh
work a speciality. Inspection invited.
V ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for Its lusting ami natural
fragiance.
Thhek Good Mnntts™
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA,IBBI,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUftDET
ESS. BOUQUET I WOOD VIOLET
TRKVOL 1 CHYFRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled for tl.eir delightful and lasting odour
Aumstm EAU DE TOILETTE DE LONDRES.
skin, and an exceedingly pum
the Handkerchief. An entirely new artkie
prepared exclusively by the Inventors.
Of all Dealer%, and 0/ the Manufacturers—
J A E. ATKINSON,
21, Onp Bond Strbkt, London.
_ Trade Alar it — “"White Rose** on “ Golden
r »-
“J


BEHAN’S
Black Oils
os
EMBROCATION,
MB
SB, UTILE & DOBS.
Will make Hair Grow sym Oldest Sears.
Awarded SILVER MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888.
UNEQUALLED as a Dressing for FRESH
WOUNDS, SORE BACKS, GIRTH GALLS,
BROKEN KNEES, GREASY HEELS, SAND
and QUARTER CRACK, ITCH and MANGE;
and as an EMBROCATION for SPRAINS,
CURBS, STIFF _ JOINTS and ENLARGE-
MENTS. __
Prepare* tslr by
J. Behan & Co., 135 Elizabeth
Street, Redfern,
Wioumii
Elliott Bros., Australian Drag Go., S. Hoffnung
and Co., J. Brush, Son and Co., W. H. Simpson
and Son, 883 Georgs Street, and Bntler Bros.,
Wynyard Square, Stdxiy j Sparks and Power,
Eagle Street, Busbaxi) E. Fletcher, Junr,,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
J. BEHAN, Y.B.t SS Pitt Street, Kedfern.
FRIOE ... S*. 6d. F«r BottU.
Sold by all Chemists, Saddlers and Storekeepers.
A BLESSING IN KVSRY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the oilvlUod world where
thhealing virtues of these fraud medicines have not been
recognised by thousands ol sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity thsir benefioient action is at once
rec ignised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
us every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
iaotured only at 78 Niw Oxroxs-sr., London. 43T Pur-
chasers should look to ths Label on the Boxes and Pots,
if the address is not 621 Oxford-strset; London, they are
ipurioua. |
F*. R, LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF
or WINHS, SPIBITS, BEERS Sc omy0 my &?0,
George and Gipps Streets Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15, and 21 years old.)
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), Imported and Bottled by P.R.L.
MT The Best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. S3T All Brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales Hotel, 778 & 780 George Street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney,
tar SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
FIRST-CLASS LADIES' REFRESHMENT” ROOM and LAVATORY,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hordern & Sons).
Produce Stores, - - Gipps Street and Darlinghurst Hoad.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLAGH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 Clarence Street, Sydney,
MELBOURNE and LONDON.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
tixiijer
(Lrarnro,) fITBIfS.
263 to 269 KEN A B
BW** 1 '
Have always In *j°S£jSJi»to
to the Trade ***7™
Buyers Only.
IRONMONGERY^
general b*S? waßß '
GLASS, CHINA,
AND . • %
BARTHENWA
WINES, BEERS ftf I**** 1 ****
bulkmeS£&>°’'
JOHN wi&Kyj^
Old Highland W*"* 1
J. SORIN and 00.'*
Cognac.
A ' EdiSS?
&&*"**”*' jl J)
CAN RBOOM m
b. euge**’*
(From Parte) .
Ladies’ and Gent t** - -
Hairdressing
Aa the most central and well-appo*®
the city. WOR&
WIG MAKING and HAIK^ Be(I0 lil6H-
French and English Perfumery. * gjjjr.
Private Rooms for Dyeing
NOTE THE ADDRESS— vl
m ELIZABETH fTßffll** B**
(. tew door, tromaP.O^gtg
T’sTillia.rrr B-allaxd, 3-42 3-eorg'e Street, SJ^d-ra.©^'
s
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
FANS, EASELS, BRACKETS, PURSES, CARD CASES & JAPANESE CURIOS.
RAT.T, PROGRAMMES. CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OE EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET
HAPSBURG PIANOS
MELBOURNE
Richmond »
Windsob .
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
EOHUOA ...
3EEOH WORTH .
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL.
BALE
MARYBOROUGH.
▲X THB
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
I O T
R X
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bonrke street.
69 Swanaton Street, opposite Town Hall.
... ... Swan Street.
... ... Chapel Street.
... 1M Sturt Street.
m ... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
... ... 66 Moorabool Street.
... .„ Main Street, next Aeschimann's.
... ... High Street.
... ... Camp Street.
... ... Gray Street.
... ... Fairy Street.
... ... Foster Street.
... ... High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
JP 4 '
icujlor
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Co
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR RACKETS THROUIHOUT THE
0*
Of.
3T- PICKLES <sc SOLTS, Carriage 18-u.
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA-
City Repositoryi - - B, 7,8, tl LATROBE STREET WEST, MELBO
Matrnpolltan Manufactoryi 32, 34, 3B BRUNSWICK STREET, FIT*"
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE
NEW
SOCIETY 0 ,
THE
TABLE —TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for
RETURNED a* an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period, or in the Event of Survival, FULL
PREMIUMS PAID RETURNED a* a
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. Branches
in all the Colonies and in the United
“Nervous Debility.” A Free Medical Book.
RASMUSSEN, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (Dost free) to Anyone a Free Medical Book on Self Con* fob Nkbvoos Dbbjlitt and
Plfinma. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Address -
HERE RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK, BYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
m
o*'
ALLAN A. MARSHALL
Engines:es, Coppersmiths, Bears and Bell Found* 88,
FunsHna, Flchbebs, Gasfittebs, Ship & General Smiths, Aht & mbdi^* 6
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheel*- ti* Vj,
Verity'* Ga* Fire*, Heater* and Ventilator* at Greatly Reduced Price*— 11 ' 0
Importer* and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of -l
Iron or Braas, Ships’ Single and Double Aotion Valve Closet*, Fire Hydrants,
»•« ACC«U W«KU, t Maennarte riaee, Sydney, **4 Htaiunore
