

PJODK
| eR °CER FOR
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
J. S. FRY & SONS, Bristol, London and Sydney.
“ An ordinary cup contains more active properties of malt than a pint of the best Ale or Porter.” — Lancet.
OMjY ADDRESS :
Elizabeth Street.
Teeth Made on the Latest American
principles at Moderate Charges.
BIS administered DM
FOR EXTRACTING TEETH PAINLESSLY!
FILLING a SPECIALITY
J BROTHERS, of 133 Elizabeth Street, beg respectfully to remind the Public that they are the ONLY
Fi rm D ei ßi s t!3 of the same name practising ia Sydney, aud are in no way caanected with any oth3r establishment.
%
• 133 ELIZABETH STREET.
The Bulletin


Business Announceme’ ir;
ARD MAN BROS.
ANUFACTURERS
fifWfßS
esro
m*nm
tB9S
timet* Factory, wwrom
Off ARM. CtOR&SI SrO/iffr
OOLLINS-PLAOE, OOLLINS-STRKBT EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
PMBfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
TOBACCO
mm
4
☆
I®
a
33
V
POQX
1S1R ROGER
l&
te
9
OIXSONS
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
208 to 269 Kent-atreet,
Sydney,
Bits always In STOCK lot
SALE to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUTTERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SOKE
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Oognao.
J. T. GAYBNS
Schnapps and Geneva,
A, MELVIN and BOMS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
PAIN
Iran,jon's pain paoix
CUBES AU> PAIN,
She beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM]
HRURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, ate.’
Mid taken internally cores DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COHO, and all, other
Internal aches and pains.
•Aid tsveryyp'bSJQ
vne m
MU PRCPRIETOB.
* »«* AJID' BVp»s?f
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Business Announcements.
J>ATENT DIRECT ACTING
MMFB Ml,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Over Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured by tbe Westinghouse Brake
Company (limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
RM. RILEY
• (late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
AS ROYAL ARCADB, SYDNEY,
Abaoonderc and wife deaertera traced, and all kind! of
confidential inqulriei inititnted. Evidenoe obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary oaiei, for tbe legal pro-
tection and othera. Oopiea of willa, oertifioatea of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Renta and debta collected. From R. 84. K.’a long experience
In the Detective Foroe of New South Walea, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and eatabliahed agencie* in all parti of the
globe, he ia in a poaition to oonduct all inquiriea with caution,
expedition and atrioteat aeorecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all buaineii entruated to hia care.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found in the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of thla
book will be Bent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps, Address—
S. WARD & CO,,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
78 Hunter-street, Sydney.
■
N D
E CAN RBCOMM
B. EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING AND HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYEING THE HAIR.
Note the Address—
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.O., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
Millar, carter and oo.,
* Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
A-lOVEISIBV BEHEST
To all Afßioted with Rheumatic Gout, TioJ
Dolorkux, Aching Pains In the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why surfer those exoruclatlng Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM'S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 5b., and 10s,
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyeß. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
Its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medioal
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
1. L ROBE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 Goorye-atreot, only,.
McLEAN BEOS., BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
*
KLKOTKOOt’IATKU WAKK, TOOBB,
\ «AB OOOKINS 8TOVK8 i-HBOmB FLKTCHKR'S. JKAN8 Is WAXJEKKB,
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINES, fco., ICO.
1
ran TEAS! FOfflfl
IS THB ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
BREAD, TBA-CAEES, PASTRY, * c "
ABE : |
LIGHT, WHOLESOME, AND DIGESTIBLE,
WHEN MADE WITH
MS
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA,
BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS. '&
SOLD IN TINS A.T od. THE HALF POtf 1 ®* 0
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
i£cE*ms on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for mry form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
3TSSOM-
A
Mi
Scroiol* 0 ®
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
tT>JSSIGURIN& HUMORS, Humiliating Erup
ill l tions, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*
iiaOatbsome Sore*, and every specie* oi Itching,
3*aly, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
ilSie Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
Jle®ww>f Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Oiwiouka Rjsboi.vrkt, the new Blood Purifier,
Mernally, and Cutiouba and Outicura Soap, the
Qsraat Skin Cures and Beautifiers, externally.
Itching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Bakers’, Barbers’, Grocers’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Sftshing Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
09 both sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
CTtth Cutiouba Soap and a single application of
(StanpoußA, the great Bkin Cure. This repeated
doily, with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
CTill speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
□eslp, when all other means absolutely fail.
& Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
Ortth Colored Plates, is wrapped about the R*
Dolvbnt. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol
omnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
sepeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
2er years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
iter* been obliged to shun public places by reason
9f my disfiguring humors; have had the beat phy-
plsians; have spent hundreds of dollars, ana got
gw relief until 1 used the Cutiouba Remedies,
which have eured me, and left my skin and blood
na pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
beak," How to Care Skin and Blood Diseases?’ j
Australia* Consignees,
*. Towns * Co., Hew South Wales.
CUTOOURA RESOLVES
fier, Diuretic, and Ap
and Perspiration of all
Outicura, the Gbsat 8S.1S
Jelly for external use),
Inflammation, clears the Skin an %
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys D ® , B g W
heals Ulcers. Discba
heals Ulcere, Sores r -and k'iscmfSgjtm,
stores the Hair, and gratifies tb ®^-
Outicura Soap., an exqui*
nvuw Konnl.itB nrenarea a
Gre»»y
mors,
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or
tP"
Outicura Remedies are P~ e froin Qt
Purifiers and Skin Beautifler* "V» e I oi
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any 0$**' 0t»*
table poison whatsoever. G“. w of 01 >-
pure by the Analytical Ohem
Massachusetts. ______ —T
ror~s ~— r^7^r:^st * *°*»<^* e *
druggists
iJealaud. vunuuMt --- ; v*",#
tl.dOj Outicura Soap, 25
INO 3oap, 16 cents; CuricuM
per bottle.
FrxpajUTO **
Potter Drag * Chemical Oo»
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL,*
charge
BOX^'
K. prop
LOOSE
GOOD
STABLING
AND
FALLON
T H I
Hall. TPrivabe "Sitting
promptly attended to.


The Bulletin
Vol. 9 No. 446
SATUKDAY, AUGUST I>, 1»S8.
Price, 6tf,
Keeping Himself Warm.
WHAT IT MAY COME TO IF THE COALMINERS’ STRIKE EVENTUATES


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors s BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 IS 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
ffite^zzlleZz/ri,
SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 1888.
Lord Salisbury and “Vested Privileges.”
According to the fond belief of many of her
sons, England, from the remotest period,
has been the greatest country in the world,
and nearly all the greatest men of other
nations have been Englishmen who gener-
ously emigrated just after their birth toshec
their light on the dark places of the earth
But the present period is regarded by th
patriotic Briton as the period of periods
and if the patriotic Briton be also a Tory he
reflects with pride upon the achievement
"of that uniquely “ English ” aristocrac;
who, throughout the long years of thei'
escutcheoned rule “ did nothing in particular
and did it very well.” The voice drops with
an affectionate intonation not unminglec
with respect when the virtues of a Beacons
field are the theme of the patriotic British
Tory, but that cast-brained creature by no
means considers Beaconsfield the last o
the god-like race of English statesmen-peers
He likes to believe that the present age is o
all ages the best ; England wa3 never so
great on sea or land before, never so high in
the favour of Heaven, her trade never so
prosperous, her arms were never so invincible,
her people never so well and ideally governed.
* *
Even the showmen who pull the strings
by which the puppets are worked half-
believe the specious phrases by which their
lease of power is scarped and bastioned
round ; and Lord Salisbury was doubtless
more or less sincere the other day in his
banquet speech at the Mansion House. He
spoke particularly on three subjects : The
Local Government Bill, the Irish Question,
and the peace prospects of Europe. Of the
first, he said it “solved a difficult problem,
without inflicting injury upon vested pri-
vileges of the second, the Government
had diminished “the tyranny exercised by
the Nationalist organisations over the people
of Ireland of the third, “he was confident
that the rulers of the nations of the world
desired a permanent and uninterrupted
peace.”
• • «
This sort of coroneted twaddle, besides
being false to fact, is an insult to the average
intelligence ; but the people who “dearly
love a lord ” have so long been accustomed
to it, that it not only passes unchallenged,
but is quoted with admiration and pointed
to with pride. “The rulers of the world
desired a permanent and uninterrupted
peace.” The creatures who live in palaces,
whose incomes are measured by millions,
whose order-spangled breasts are never ex-
posed to the risks of battle; these canaille
desire peace. The Marquis of Salisbury
knows this to be a lie ! but note that he
does not even mention the wishes of the
people who fill up the ranks and make
the armies—the people whose bodies are
sword-gashed and shell-rent; the people
who are starved and taxed and driven
to fight for a cause they neither understand
nor care about, the people whose wives are
made widows and whose children orphans in
the event of war. To statesmen of the type
of the present Premier of England the people
do not count.
* « *
The Marquis of Salisbury is a landlord,
and makes profit out of the people. He is
the landlords’ Premier and the guardian of
“vested privileges ” within the realms of the
British Empire and wheresoever besides the
British money-lender, his brother, shall have
coerced—as in Egypt—a Sbylock-bond upon
the bodies of his fellow-men. Lord Salis-
bury has a tender regard for the ‘ ‘ vested
privileges ” of his dear friends the landlords
of London—the Dukes of Bedford and
Westminster, Viscount Portman, and the
Bumbles and Boodles of their following.
The “ vested privileges ” so anxiously con-
served by the Marquis-Premier comprise in
the city of London alone some of the largest
and most magnificent metropolitan proper-
ties in the world. On the 25th March last
the 99 years’ leases of a very considerable
portion of the Portman estate — though not
of the whole of it—fell in. They numbered
seventeen hundred and eighty-six leases.
The Viscount’s agent made £120,000 in
renewal premiums out of a single street in
the estate !
* * •
The Portman estate covers between two
and three hundred acres of rich city property,
and includes the famous Baker and Upper
Baker streets, Portman and Montague
Squares, and Gloucester Place. The estate
of Hugh Lupus Grosvenor, K.G., P.C.,
Duke of Westminster —administered by the
magnificent Henry Trelawney Boodle at
whose shadow the Duke’s tenant-trades-
people tremble—embraces the rapture of
Elysium and the shades of Cocytus, varying
from squalid lanes of low lodging-houses to
the lacquered squares of Belgravia ; and it is
the enormous revenue derived from the rents
collected from the dwellers on his city land
which makes the Duke of Westminster
the richest man in England. He, or
rather his Boodle, compels his tenants
under the infamous conditions of leasehold
law in England to rebuild at their own cost
before the leases fall in : hence, without ex-
pending a single penny of his own he is
always the owner of a well-built and
modernised section of a magnificent city.
The principality of the Russell famil
covers 118], acres of three parishes in th
heart of London, and yet the titled old car
mudgeon who is called his Grace of Bed
ford levies tolls of a half penny a sieve o
the plums and peaches that are sold i
Covent Garden. The most awful stories ar
told of the want, misery, and destitution o
the slum-tenants of the Duke of West
minster. Horrible accounts from time t
time find their way into the columns of th
English Press of the insanitary condition
of the rent-racked alleys that furnish fort
the princely incomes of the great titled land
lords of London. In St. Pancras, in th
estate of the Duke of Bedford, the death
rate has reached 70.1 per thousand! Th
average death-rate for England is 19 (i pe
thousand ! Says Arnold White, in hi
“ Problems of a Great City ” :
“ Evils which would frenzy the nation were they t
happen in Fort Qu’appelle or Cawnpore are accepted wit
languid remorse by the country at large.”
And why ? Because the country is ruled b
landlords. They sit in Parliament and mak
laws for the wretches out of whom the;
make their countless millions. The presen
Premier of England, Lord Salisbury, is
man who alone of 17 appointed in 1884 to
Royal Commission to consider the Housing
of the Working Class, signed a memorandurr
adverse to Leasehold Enfranchisement. The
people who pay rents have no votes, anc
while the Marquis of Salisbury has the
whip-hand they are unlikely to get either
votes or justice—for “vested privileges’
must be fenced round and conserved agains
that dangerous spirit of innovation whicl
deprives the “rulers of the nations of the
world ”of the right to say whether they
want a “permanent and uninterrupted
peace” or a disastrous and never-ending war
and hands the right of peace and war to the
people who have to fight and to pay.
* * •
London, the pre-emptive right to a very
considerable area of the soil of which
is practically in the hands of three men, is
one of the most overcrowded cities on the
face of the earth, and all this toiling, seeth-
ing mass of humanity live within its smoky
confines for the sake of building up the
colossal fortunes of Portman, Bedford, West-
minster and Co. London toils and throbs
with her millions to pay rent to a half-dozen
landlords whose callousness and brutality in
dealing with specific cases of hardship have
made their names a reproach even among
their own class. There in the hideous ruck
and stress of city life, amid all the noise and
turmoil and deadly strife, the crowds pant
and push and starve to pay rent —to help
Lord Salisbury to legislate without touch-
ing in any way those “ vested privileges ”
without which landlordism would be an idle
tale. ,
* #
The existence of landlordism enables the
“rulers of the nations of the world” to
talk so smartly and so flippantly about the
chances of war and peace, because the land-
lords have managed to pass on to the
shoulders of the people the cost and rospon-
sibility of war. Once war was paid for by
the man who held his acres on condition of
supplying so many archers and so many
men at-arms to his country in the event of
embroilment with a foreign power. The
descendant of that ancient landlord still
holds his acres, but he fights no longer and
he pays nothing to the cost of war. He has
passed his responsibility on to his tenant,
who is taxed to support the operations of
the army, and whose son is often driven by
poverty to enlist in the defence of the country
in which his father surrenders all he earns
to the Duke of Bedford as rent and dies
in the workhouse when he can no longer keep
up the payment of his weekly instalments.
• *
Thanks to the Marquis cf Salisbury and
thanks to hi 3 friends the noble landlords,
those “ vested privileges ” his lordship is so
afraid of clipping have filled E nglar.d with want
and wretchedness ; the soil is labour starved
and the peasants are driven into the towns and
cities like moths on a dark night that fiy to
the flame in which they perish. The bone
and brawn and brain of England is no longer
in the land of “ vested privileges”—England
retains only her “vested privileges,” and
her aristocracy and her paupers. The intel-
lect and muscle has departed for a kindlier
home, and has spread itself over America,
and Africa, and Australia. Lt is now leaden-
ing the apathy of South American settlement
and adding a spice of Saxon determination
to its Spanish warmth. But the children of
the men who have made England are not to
be found in the sweatiog-den, nor do they
rent a hovel in St. Pancras from a ducal
landlord.
* * *
“ Vested privileges ” have brought about
in England a condition of things in which
men go to the dogs more quickly than in any
other. On one side is a caste who wallow
in luxury, who become enfeebled physically
and morally and intellectually in the pursuit
of pleasure. On the other side is a class
who sweat and starve to furnish the drones
with the wherewithal to luxuriate in idleness.
The head and the feet of the English nation
are moribund and the great middle-class is
silently emigrating to lands were the condi-
tions of life are more favourable to the man
with no superfluity of fortune. Of those
that remain, a certain number every year go
down another rung in life’s ladder—some-
times their grasp relaxes suddenly and they
tumble at once to the ground ; and a few—
a very few, perhaps, manage to scramble
into the class whose one life motive is the
maintenance of “vested privileges ” and
whose reason for existence the majesty of
Ground Rent.
This ought to be of the greatest interest
to Australians. The horrible accumulations
of mis-rule upon class law which have
allowed the Marquis and his friends to en-
trench the farce of “vested privileges”
behind the very buttresses of the English
constitution, and to barricade the hoary lie
of prn ate property in land with all the tra-
ditions of morality and religion and social
usage operate in Australia as in London. In
George-street, Sydney, and in Collins-street,
Melbourne, in King-William street, Ade-
laide, and in Queens-street, Brisbane, the
future founders of Portman Squares and
I pper Baker-fctreet3 are industriously secur-
ing the fee-simple of city-lots that within a few
years may make their owners the Crcesus-
rulers of the Southern Hemisphere. The
Dukes of Westminster and Bedford may
yet find apt Australian imitators in future
generations of the Coopers and Holts of
Sydney and the Boodles ar d Bumbles of
the earth have we not always with us ] The
glaring injustice of private property in land
is no more keenly felt than in regard to
city freeholds, and no act of legislation
would be more sincerely appreciated by the
community at large or more just in its
application than a measure of Land
Nationalisation which should deal in the
first instance only with capitalised city pro-
perty. If Australia is wise she will profit
by the lesson taught by Europe and secure
to herself that unearned increment which at
present flows into the pockets of the land-
lord.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
South Australia Leads the Way.
The end approacheth at last. The people of
South Australia have instructed their Premier to
ask the Secretary of State for the Colonies to
furnish him with the name of the person whom it
is proposed to appoint as Governor of South Aus-
tralia in succession to Sir William Robinson.
This simply means that the people of South Aus-
tralia are “full up” of paying their thousands
a year to support some titled noodle as an Imperial
figure-head for the State, and that they are fully
determined to have a voice in the nomination of
their Governors for the future. The time was when
such a request as that just made would have been
looked upon as a piece of high treason complicated
with blasphemy, but that time has gone by now;
and gone for ever, tob. In this matter South
Australia has been forced to take the lead. Pirst
of all she has been pushed to the brink of insolv-
ency, and must retrench in every possible way.
Secondly, it has been rumoured that it was in-
tended to appoint the Marquis of Normanby as
successor to Sir William Robinson. The Mar-
quis is known to be a confirmed invalid, and
would be of about as much use to the State as a
pair of Balmoral boots would be to a mermaid,
and as the South Australians are determined to
have the worth of their money this time—if indeed
any Governor can be said to ba worth his salary—
io is very certain they will kick wLh all the feat at
their disposal against the appointment of the
“Markis.” The Home Secretary V chief trouble
in this matter lies in the fact that if he does not
accede to the South Australians’request, they will
probably cut off supplies, and make the position
of the next Governor very unenviable indeed. If
he docs accede to it, every other Australian colony
will rise up and demand a similar right. Then,
by-and-by, we will elect our own Governors—if
before the by-and-by arrives the colonies have not
altogether disappeared and the whole Australian
continent forms a confederated union republic
under the rule of the President of the ILS. of
Australia.
i’arkcfc on f.ang.
Anyone not knowing Sir Henky Parkes, and the
manner of man he is, who read or listened to his
recent speech on the late Doctor John Dcnmore
Lang might easily be deceived in accrediting the
aged Premier of New South Wales with a vaiiety
of high-minded and noble-souled attributes which
we, knowing him as well as we do, would as soon
think of ascribing to the man in the moon.
Parkes is always great in speech of a set nature.
Until he begins to whine or to act you might
imagine you heard the voice of one of those old
heroes Plutarch loved so well to write about.
Parkes’ tribute to Lang was nicely-worded and
sonorously-phrased and abounded in no end of
high-flown sentiment and patriotic flap doodle
but the old man could not come to a tardy con-
clusion without introducing a little Comparison
between himself and the Scottish doctor. P 4rkes
is fond of these little historical parallels—they are,
in his opinion-, so neat, so apt, so apposite and tend
to Contribute an air of verisimilitude to an other-
wise bald and unconvincing narrative. He has
tinie and again in a roundabout and artful way
drawn public attention to little coincidences
existent between his own character and the
character of Gladstone, Cobden, Bright Pym
Napoleon, Julius Gesar, George Washington’
and Mr. Spoopendyke. On the occasion in point
he insinuated a delicate level on which he and
Lang can take up mutual ground. He did it with
a verse from a poem, “The Wife’s Appeal,” by
the American poet, N. P. Willis. Of course the
verse is plausibly intended to fit the case of
Lang, but it is obviously meant also to indicate
to men of this stubborn and perverse generation
the great and only Parkes. List to the trou-
badour !
“ He bore harsh insults silently, and bow'd
Respectfully to men who knew he loathed them •
And when his heart was eloquent with truth ’
And love of oountry, and an honest zeal
Burned for expression, he could find no words
They would not misinterpret with their lies.”
Now, this is Parkes’ own little protest. This is
just what he claims for the Great and Only. As
a matter of fact, the valiant Lang couldn’t bear
harsh insults worth a shrivelled geebung, and
we shouldn’t think much of him if he had been
able to do so. Parkes can, though—when
it suits his little game. Lang never
bowed to anybody, and as for bowing “respect-
fully to men who knew he loathed them,” he would
as soon have thought of eating “ pairritch ” made
of pulverised road-metal. The quotation—the
whole of it—fits not Lang the stalwart and
straightforward, but Parkes the two-faced, and
it was selected with a view of gilding the Paf-
kesian ideal of himself, which that ancient trickster
is fond of lifting up like Aaron’s rod in the
wilderness of public sentiment for the Orange
Lodg-e to rally round and blink at. The foregoing
metrical quotation fits in very beautifully indeed
with what Premier Papkes said about himself in
a now historic little volume of verse —“The Beau-
teous Terrorist, and Other Poems’’—published
anonymously a year or two ago :
“ Tim Patriot.
“ He only kept his onward path when they,
Who could not see the grandeur of his aim,
Turned to the new-fledged creatures of the day,
And drank their slanders, feeling not the shame.
“ So ever rise the Feeble ’gainst the Fit ;
So ever first the noblest blood is shed ;
So surged the hungry waters round He Witt:
So tortured France was robbed of Danton’s head."
Ass ! You JLlkc II ?
An “ alleged ” humorous writer of Imperialistic
proclivities quotes in the S.M. Herald some
phrases _ of the late Dr. Hearn’s to show that
Separation is not desirable.
“There is nothing—absolutely nothing,” said thb
Doctor, “in the colonial relation to imply, as a nattiral
event, separation. Separation hiay, of course, take place,
but it will be the result of some external force, of somfe
quarrel which might be avoided, and not the natural out-
come of the organisation itself.”
The writer then proceeds most courteously to
accuse the Separatists of being “bush-reared, in-
tellectual scarecrows, legal and journalistic carpet-
baggers, good fellows at bottom, but uncultured,
unwashed, untravelled, braying imbeciles,” and so
on, Perhaps some believer in Separation may
exist whom this delicate little inventory describes.
If so, the cause is none the worse. That such ari
ignoramus is in any way representative of the
advocates of Separation The Bulletin denies
The thinker who in this and the other
colonies most sturdily teaches “Separation”
is not the untravelled native, but the travelled
European; not the rich globe-trotting Imperial-
istic title-hunter, but the man who has travelled
in search of a livelihood, or for the sake of ac-
quiring information. In fact, the Republican
spirit in Australia is far more pronounced in the
Englishmen dwelling here than in the natives
themselves. Public opinion is a thing of slow
growth; the intelligent Separatist, recognising
this, now endeavours to hasten the coming of an
event that public apathy may delay until impend-
ing ruin hurries it along. Anyhow, the Separator
is not made of the feeble stuff that can be dis-
couraged, or annoyed by petty sneers of anybody,
whether he signs himself “ A before double S ”
or “T over J;” “ Tom ”—Old Tom-over
Jamaica. Some little creature will always
sneak out from the dismal alleyways of Conserva-
tism to snap at the heels of those who ride in
the vanguard of Progress. Eortunately such
“atomies” never manage to unseat the firmly
horsed rider who3e carefully thought-out opinions
are founded on common sense, proved experience,
and honest principles.
Poltllcal Fetich-Worship.
Ever since President Cleveland made certain
utterances which showed that he was in favour of
limiting the Protective policy of America, the
Freetraders of Sydney have never ceased to
eulogise him. That he is not regarded with
similar respect in America, an article in the North
American Review, entitled “Eetichism in the
Campaign,” by Senator J. J. Ingalls, may testify.
In this article the writer asserts that Cleveland’s
“ aliened election ” to the Presidency is the “ most
astounding phenomenon in American politics ”
and doubts “ whether its parallel can be found in
the history of any nation.’ “ Obscure men,” the
writer goes on to say, “ ignorant men, degraded
men, haVe been elected to power, but it has never
before occurred that a man possessing every


Everybody should use Pemell s latest, best Snow-whits
Fatbnt Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of ths
age.
acknowledged disqualification has been selected
because of them. . . . It is not known that
he ever made a political speech, tried an important
case was a member of any legislative body, wrote
a remembered paragraph, or expressed an intelli-
gent idea. ... He has no perceptible connec-
tion with the category of accidents to which his
elevation is due. He had neither personal follow-
ing popularity, admiration, nor respect, because
he had exhibited none of the traits or attainments
that inspire regard. He was not eloquent, nor
learned, nor cultivated, nor agreeable, nor enter-
taining, nor attractive in mind, manner, or per-
son His enjoyments were those which were
found in the unrestrained indulgence of the appe-
tites and passions, and his chosen associates were
the companions of his orgies.” harther on, when
the writer states that his “protestations of purity
are wearisome,” and that he regards as enemies
all who are “unable to concur with his swollen
estimate of his superlative pre-eminence, and
manifests resentment to all opponents, whether
in his own party, or elsewhere,” it is difficult to
remember that it is Cleveland, and not Parkes,
that he is writing about. It is probable, too, that
Pvkkbs attained to office in precisely similar
fashion to that painted out by Senator Ingalls as
the mode by which the American President will
be nominated—“ not as a leader but a fetich
—a thing endowed by superstition, and ignorance
with fictitious attributes.'’ Whether Parkes will
be as devoutly worshipped at the next general
election, as at the last, may be doubted.
4.
Hand and Tongue.
The Italian Parliament, in its recent review of
the Penal Code, sets down duelling as an offence,
but does it in a way which shows a fuller psycho-
logical knowledge than is met with in British laws
on the same subject. Italy recognises the prac-
tice, separates it from other offences, and estab-
lishes a scale of penalties graduated to accord with
dilferent phases of the deed. Whoever issues a
challenge is fined ; if the parties meet, the fine is
increased; if a wound is inflicted, there is
a further increase; and the man who kills
another in a duel is exiled. This is legis-
lation against duelling, certainly, but. it
will be noticed that a challenge may be given
and a meeting take place without serious legal
consequences, and as it rarely happens that grave
bodily injury ensues, the extreme penalty (exile)
will hardly ever be imposed. The amended law
makes duelling an illegal practice, but by its
graduated scale of punishments it aims at edu-
cating the people step by step to the abandon-
ment of the practice. That is rational legislation.
When the end is gained it will be gained without
having a rank growth of evils set up against it.
British communities passed from the duelling to
the non-duelling epoch at a bound, with the result
that their privileged assemblies are scandalous in
imputation and vile in abuse. In Great Britain,
as in Australia, the lower classes pursue a rude
kind of duelling habit, but for this there is
common law, and the matter ends there. It is
among the wealthier classes, and especially in those
assemblages where “privilege” is enjoyed, that
the degradation of personal insult is common.
There cannot be a doubt that if the 1 rench or
Italian sentiment had existence here, Parliament
would not be the privileged pot-house that it is.
It is notorious that men carry into the New South
Wales Legislative Assembly mouths full of evil
words and recklessly empty them about, knowing
that they run no danger as regards either pocket or
limb. Freedom for the tongue is like all other
sorts of freedom. The right to carry a. walking-
stick presupposes that the person carrying it will
use it in a legitimate way, and will not turn it
into a weapon of offence. The tongue may be made
a weapon just as a stick may, and the law which
privileges the tongue in any assembly, and does
not privilege the' stick, suppresses one form of
violence, but gives loose rein to another. Con-
trol of the tongue will only come by discip-
line. In France the duel is a discipli-
narian, in Italy the possibility and pro-
bability of a duel produce the same effect,
while here ruffianly imputation, criminal in-
nuendo, and sottish vilification are conserved
“ privilege.” The duel is not to be recom-
mended, but what we say is that it is better than
nothing, and that those nations which refrain
from stamping it out as a thing utterly evil are
better judges of human nature than those, which
indict for violence of the hand and provide im-
munity for violence of the tongue.
Money Changers and the Temple.
That spasmodic Calvinist, David Buchanan,
M.P., like many less religious persons, opines that
the opening of the Melbourne Exhibition by
prayer was a highly indecorous proceeding. Ger-
tain excessively holy correspondents of the b.M.
Herald have attacked the valiant “ Dai i, bom-
barding him with hastily picked up chunks of
Scripture, while flooding that highly orthodox
organ with oceans of twaddle. If it be admitted
that these irrational enthusiasts are right, and
that national speculations should always be
blessed with prayer, where is the line to be
drawn? If the principle is right in large things
why not in small ? If advisable in small things,
then why not implore Divine assistance
in all commercial undertakings from the
opening of a Mont de Piete, to the cat and.
canary show, and the performance of the latest
burlesque company ? Here arises another ques-
tion : In show business would it be advisable to
have prayers before admitting the public, or
should they be considered, as in Melbourne, part
of the performance ? Do the Herald s corres-
pondents consider that it would pay large drapery
establishments to keep a parson on the premises,
instead of advertising so largely ? What would
happen should this suggestion be acted on, and
several rival emporiums secure the. aid of heavenly-
assistance-implorers ? To which side of the street
might Providence be expected to incline a listen-
ing ear on a day when none were unduly favoured
by the breeze ?" Would it choose the sunny side,
remain neutral, or, disgusted with such greedy
importunity, transfer its patronage to some place
of business where religion was not paraded with
the hope of attracting customers, and where the
Temple was not so inextricably entangled with
the money-change rs ?
—«-
1 wcnl y-sliilling Grovel.
On the dep'orable occasion of six Governors (and
six suites) descending in one great glittering mass
upon Melbourne Princess’s, the proprietors of that
popular resort applied a crucial test to the Aus-
tralian national character. With the professed
purpose of keeping their dress-circle audience
“select” (a reflection upon patrons generally!)
the Triumvirate raised the price of seats from
7s (id. to £l and, under a similar flimsy pretence,
they charged 10s. 6d. for such stalls as are
ordinarily reserved at the advanced price of 03.
each. This experiment obtained a result which
was eminently pleasing to the management, and,
in a measure, satisfactory to the Manhood of Vic-
toria. Human worms crawled up in sufficient
force to materially benefit the Princess’s treasury,
without filling either stalls or circle to positive
overflowing. Thus far there was no cause
for uneasiness—rather there was cause for
honest jubilation. Evidently a good many
worms turned at the thought of 12s. Od, extra for
six Governors and six suites. But the fact that
the Melbourne public, to whom Messrs. Wil-
liamson, Garner, and Musgrovk are consider-
ably beholden, mutely suffered the setting up of
such a miserable standard of “selectness,” is not
a comforting sign of our times. Nobody knows
better than the firm in question that it would be
impossible to so sit upon the self-respect of an
audience in any other English-speaking country.
Yet that which no London manager would dream
of attempting, the Triumvirate boldly per-
form. We don’t blame them for making
the goose lay an extra golden egg. They
are three clever men—one of them almost a
genius in his particular line —they have under-
taken a tremendous risk in bringing out a lot
of actors and actresses whose salaries run into
many hundreds weekly, and they have dis-
covered that our vaunted Australian “indepen-
dence ” is very negative in some of its characteris-
tics. Here the average democrat is too well fed
to care about demonstrating. He may sneer at
flunkeyism, but will never attempt to crush it
until “ some sudden passion makes him halt upon
the unguarded castletof the mind.” Then will it
be impossible to keep theatres specially “select
for six Governors from England, because of those
Brummagem monarchs will be clear this exceeding
good land and keep our milk and honey to our-
selves. Home papers please copy.
Foil more than a week after the opening of Mel-
bourne Exhibition most of these Australasian
colonies had to struggle along without the assistance
of a supreme authority. Governors, Premiers and
Chief Justices stole silently away to the big show,
leaving no man in responsible charge of the con-
stitutions under which the subject’s liberty is
assured and Freedom roams at large. It is im-
possible to fully explain, in one short paragraph,
the perils which beset millions of human beings
during that resplendent period aforementioned.
A railway smash, a fire, or a few typhoid germs in
the Exhibition banquet soup and the official sup-
ports of our unhappy continent might have
crumbled into dust at one fell swoop, thereby
laying the great social fabric in desolated
ruin. It is just this way. Nothing can
possibly go on in Australasia unless somebody
is in recognised possession of the Queen’s S al, or
Royal Letters Patent, and has been sworn in ;
consequently the unanimous decease of all the
Governors and their heirs and assigns would bring
affairs in general to a violin 1 ; end. If the Rus-
sians came we might all be murdered in our boots
while the military were crying aloud for somebody
to call them out. Such Cabinet Ministers as still
survived could merely sit down and weep for their
bleeding country, because the wisest measures are
as nought while awaiting signature from a hand
that is stilled in death. We couldn’t even get the
Royal Seal by cable if the cable were already cut
—but this subject is too awful for further dis-
cussion.
Special arrangements were made for cabling
home to Victoria Regina the news that Mel-
bourne Exhibition had been formerly opened.
For several days previously the organs of grovel
discussed the possibility of getting this expensive
message “through” in the quickest time on
record, while still deploring the fact that a con-
siderable number of minutes must elapse between
its despatch from the Exhibition dais and its
gracious reception by our beloved Queen. Every
effort was made, however, to limit this period of
weary waiting, and Melbourne Herald “did not
hesitate to say that well within half-an-hour after
Sir Henry Loch dictates the words, they will be
read by the august lady whose representative he
is.” The Argus, without unduly dwelling upon
the economy of time in wiring this delicate
message, felt “ a certain pleasure in knowing that
the news of our successful opening was being
Hashed across the seas to the expectant R-npress,
whose realms were so well represented here.
In a similar strain did the “ radical Age
and the pious Telegraph jubilate over the
rapid transmission of these glad tidings, in ow,
of a dozen shams incidental to the Melbourne
Exhibition ceremony, this cable sham was the
most hollow and inexcusable. Sir Henry Loch,
who played at sending a long message, the elec-
trician who put it through, most of the onlookers,
and (we venture to hope) all the newspaper
gushers knew perfectly well that it mattered not
one penny curse whether the aforesaid message
reached London early or late, because Her
Gracious was certain to be in bed for the next five
hours. It arrived at 4.28 a m., Greenwich time,
and the “ expectant Empress,” who appears to
have overslept herself on the joyful occasion,
wasn’t in a position to reply until 10 a.m., at
which hour she was sufficiently a,wake to be able
to communicate, through a long line of n unkeys,
the remarkable fact that “ Queen wishes success
Melbourne Exhibition. Collect. The frugal
curl ness of her royal answer suggests that the
Queen had got out of bed on the wrong side, and
wasn’t taking as much interest in Australian
affairs as usual.
The Duchess of Montrose married Milne
for his own sake, but he probably married the
Dowager for her Milne 3 — H&wkesbury joke.
Seriously, and while strenuously defend
ing the trade, the organ of the "V ictorian Licen-
tious Victuallers, says :—“There are probably no
members of the community who enter more
heartily into the spirit of a great national celebra-
tion than Licensed Victuallers.” Well, even the
teetotallers don’t deny that.
Messrs. Ivwong Sing Wing, Hip T ung
Tie, Sew Hory, and Kum Yoon Lee, residents of
Dunedin (N.Z ), have had the Celestial stuffing
knocked out of them in one round by the editor of
the Otago Daily Times. A paragraph appeared
in that paper accusing the local heathen of circu-
lating a large number of sovereigns which were
found to have their raised edges rubbed on,
notches cut in them, and to be otherwise injured.
Thereupon the above-named quartette penned a
dignified disclaimer on behalf of their country-
men, and asked the editor to give his reasons for
stating that Chinamen were the guilty parties, to
which the editor replied, “We are informed by a
bank authority that a Chinaman, who has not
been identified, went to one of the banks recently
and exchanged a number of sovereigns for bank-
notes, and the coin was afterwards found to be
chipped and injured. The same notes were paid
into another bank the same dav, and their value
withdrawn in gold.” Messrs. Kwong bmg Wing
and Co. did not continue the correspondence.
The Suburban Dcalli Brigade.
Dear Bulletin,— The N.S.W. Government
Statist reports that there occur annually in the
suburbs of Sydney no less than 800 deaths
directly attributable to preventible insanitary
conditions. And no wonder ! The only surpris-
ing thing about it is that the deaths are not NOOO.
A walk through some of the by-lanes and back
alleys—the slums of the suburbs—is enough to
horrify the most callous and to convince the most
sceptical. In rows, breathing into each other’s
faces, suffocating little houses, standing in un-
drained and unchannelled streets, with ghastly
back-yards arear, make death wholesale for
their tenants and fortune for the already
wealthy landlord. In front of each little
man-kennel is a feculent pool full of fever-
germs. The country around, mayhap, is
bleak, bare, and sandy, but adown the slope over
which the drainage runs when the stagnant pools
overflow the ground is green with the greenness
that only grows above the grave. The windows in one
short and narrow street were decorated with small
efforts of an aesthetic nature, and some of them
were gorgeous with the embroidery and millinery
of the poor littlewomen who sit all day in the
mephitic mist and wait for the “old man.” It
was Monday, and the rent-collector slammed a
tiny door behind him (it was at Waverley), and
splashed through the pool of water in the hollow
made by many feet entering the house. With a
glance at the defiant bravery of the front
window and another latj' the parti-coloured
drain sopping the roots of the rank grass that
choked what should have been the channel, L
remarked to him, “ Fine healthy neighbourhood!”
“ Oh, yes !” he said. “ Not much to complain of.
No worse than other suburbs. The chap in there
I’ve just come out of is dying of typhoid ; but,
bless you, everybody has typhoid about these
parts at this time of the year. It’s one of the
things you’ve got to expect, you know.” I said,
“ Of course,” although I neglected to enquire
whether the landlords made a special reduction in
the rent during the typhoid season. The locality
was very dispiriting and dreary, notwithstanding
the few poor flowers stuck about here and there.
Besides the radiance of drapery and hangings in
some of the front windows, the feminine instinct
of ornament had placed around them on the sills
boxe3 of geraniums and mignonette, but they re-
sembled hideously the votive floral offerings that
lend their colour for a day to the tragedy of death,
and dot with the gay hues of life the grim mounds
above those who pay no more the rental of their
tenement: —
Offing to the late disastrous droughts in
N.S.W. the number of cattle in 1887 was less by
1,000,000 than in 1881.
The British Royal Naval stokers were al-
ways noted for their healthy physical appearance,
but recently a weedy lot of striplings, sft. 4in. in
height and 32in. chest measurement, have been
squeezed into the service.
The Windsor and Richmond Gazette is
a new piper which hails from the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) and says, in the course of a long-drawn
at 1 ack on The Bulletin : “ ‘ 'Tis an ill bird that
fowls its own nest.’ This is a venerable adage.”
No, dear boy, it isn’t. Your adage is quite new ;
even Chaucer didn’t always spell “foul” with a
“ w.” Then, adds the Gazette, “ the conductors
of The Bulletin came from America.” This is
another big mistake. The conductors of The
Bulletin came neither from America nor from
the “ Oxbarry,” although they have learnt a little
from both those great nations.
Who hath ear, leFhim hear
How each year onward
Through death preventible
Perish eight hundred.
Is there no man dismayed ?
Are none of death afraid ?
Who has life’s chances weighed
Of these eight hundred?
Does no one make reply ?
Does no one reason why ?
Are they but doomed to die
Yearly eight hundred ?
Wide are the suburbs spread,
Many new homes are made,
But scarce a drain is laid
Near these eight hundred.
Gutters in front of them,
Cesspits behind them,
Rubbish around them
Stank vile, and mouldered.
Poisoned are young and old,
Weakened are frames untold,
Yet scarce a voice is bold
To save eight hundred.
Who will a plan prepare ?
Who will a scheme lay bare
To make pure earth and air
And save eight hundred ?
At last a sewage scheme,
Such as one well might deem
Hygien’s embodied dream,
By Stayton pondered,
To suburb councils went
With Government’s assent
For their enlightenment,
While the world wondered
How out of councils ten
But one possessed the men
Who would even lift a pen
To save eight hundred.
Curse on the civic strife,
Curse on the sordid life,
Curse on corruption rife,
Rates yearly squandered
On municipal jobs,
While typhoid fever throbs
And Death the suburbs robs
Of these eight hundred !
Dying in hospitals,
Pining in cottage walls,
Wasting in mansion hails,
Perish eight hundred
Of whom some in Rookwood sleep,
Some by the wave-voiced deep,
Some on the North Shore steep,
Some far from kindred.
Who can the sorrow tell,
Who paint disaster fell
When by malaria’s spell
Households are sundered —
Fatherless children lefb,
Husbands of wives bereft,
Loved ones from lovers cleft
Each month by th’ hundred.
Yearly at bar of heaven
Eight hundred proofs are given
How men of life are riven
By those who’d blundered ;
Or, worse, who’d used the rates
To profit their own estates
While public health still waits
For what was plundered.
Now, if all, young and old,
Protest with voices bold,
No more shall it be told
Perished Eight Hundred !
HUMANITAS.
Aboriginalities.
Pat Connell was had up for reeling about
the Rockhampton streets with ten pounds of
sausages encircling his “neck.” The next morning
when the gay P.M asked him what he was going
to give to the hospital, Patrick replied, “ The
sausages, your worship.”
• * •
The death is announced of King Pallum
XI. chief of the Narrinyeri tribes (S.A.), at the
age of 80 years. For 50 years he reigned; too
much Jubilee joy killed him. Thirty years ago
he marched at the head of over 1000 warriors over
a great portion of his kingdom to let the world
know that the House of Pallum still flourished
and withstood the crawl of civilisation.
• • •
There is on a Murray district (Yic.) station,
acting in the capacity of rouseabout, an ancient
blaekfellow of at least 60 years. The other day
the old fellow’s son, aged 16, who had been reared
and educated at a mission station, paid his father
a visit after an absence of about four years. The
boy is a smart-looking youth, and whilst his sire
was surveying him with a great deal of paternal
pride, the proprietor of the station, who was
standing near, jokingly remarked : “Well, Pete,
what’re going to make of him—a lawyer or a
member of parliament ? ” The original possessor
of the soil snorted derisively and contemptously
answered : “ Yabber yabber parliament pfeller be
dam ! Him smart enough t’ oivn it (hlanky)
shanty!”
• * *
Dear Bulletin,— About a month ago the
Rev. F. C. B. Fairey embarked in a canoe at
Albury, with the avowed intention of paddling
down the Murray to Adelaide. He hoped, he
said, to reach many places and people, who seldom
were visited by a minister, and he trusted to
spread the Gospel amongst the neglected ones.
Here I wish to state, before I forget it, that the
Gospel has by many people been spread so very
thin that a good many uncultivated savages,
like the present writer, can see through it. Well,
the aquatic evangelist jogged along, but at such a
rate that I thought Beach, in a new name and
rdle, was coming to give us muscular Christianity
as she was explained to E. Hanlan ; but now the
speed of the Gospel-spreader is explained, for he,
according to what I hear, only paddled when hos-
pitable stations and river townships were con-
venient, and when long and dreary reaches of
the river were ahead the man who was crazy
to reach the lone'y and lost ones, on at least
several occasions climbed on beard a steamer,
dragged his canoe after him, and left the wood-
cutter at his piles, the rabbiter at his camp, and
the fisherman at his tent, to hunt for the traces of
Gospel spread by Fairey, the Flying Dutchman of
the Murray. From my camp on the river
I looked out for Fairey, and, with the
rough hospitality of the bush, kept a damper in
the ashes and a cod ready to cook when the good
clergyman hove in sight. Vain were my watch-
ings. In the dead of the night, and snug on
beard the s.s. Trafalgar, the gay deceiver swept
by my camp, leaving no traces of Gospel save the
sparks flying upwards from the funnel of the
vessel. I believe there is a smattering of Scrip-
ture in this last sentence ; but your private chap-
lain can decide the question, and help me to pray
for Fairey and his canoe, so that both may get
into trouble when they reach the “Devil’s
Elbow,” 100 miles below Wentworth. Yours
disgusted, C.M.G. Wentworth.
* » #
A certain editor up North, who never
tasted intoxicating liquor in his life —nothing
anomalous about this —once advertised for a
sober reporter —this is where the anomaly lies. A
candidate with a nose of fire and the breath of a
distillery was ushered in, and saying “ This is my
card, sir,” laid before his prospective employer
one of the Sydney Temperance Hall pledge-
tickets bearing date of a month before. The
editor looked first at it and then at the nose, and
sniffing suspiciously, he said : “ A very good card,
too, a winning card, a regular trump, provided
you don’t revoke. Now, 1 never took a pledge in
my life, yet I’ve always kept it. But I don’t
think any the more of a dog’s temper when t I see
him muzzled. You’d better call again, young
man. ”
• * *
I The leader of the very best society in
’ossum Shoot is a painful dude who is so lucky as
a be the eldest son of the biggest local squatter,
low recently there arrived in Possum Shoot a
ew public-school teacher who, being an agreeable
,nd all-round man, was soon taken up by the
aughty bong-tong of the district. The leader of
ociety resented this. “ It’s bad enough to have
o meet a private tutah ; yet a tutah fortunately
3 sometimes a gentleman, dontcherknow. But a
niblic-school teachah fellah, bai Jawe it’s
lowwid.” The lowly distributor of wisdom, how-
iver, continued to make headway with the aris-
ocracy despite Jumbuck, junior, Esquire’s dislike
o his degraded calling, and the latter determined
,o effectually squelch the teachah fellah. One
lay, seeing the corrector of childhood talking to
some of the local bigwigs, young Jumbuck swag-
gered up with :
“ I believe, Mistah a —er Teachah that you are
ioosid clevah.”
Pedagogue : “I am indeed flattered, sir.”
A.B. : “Aw! I want you to aw—er teach a
Laughing Jackass to whistle.”
Ped. : “Alright—lo guineas a quarter in ad-
vance, and come for your first lesson to-morrow
it 4.30 p.m.”
* * •
Somewhere within a few miles of the
habitat of Mr. Jim Jones, of Wang Wang (Vic.), a
Vermin Board composed of several bloated capi-
talists wearing eye-glasses and other evidences of
great wealth and intellect, meets at stated inter-
vals to pay a fixed bonus on every dingo’s scalp
secured by local hunters. From this august body
Jimuel drew large sums regularly, but he does so
now no longer —his mainstay has been kicked away
and he has succumbed to the abnormal pressure of
an extensive family and other gruesome
events. A few weeks back the Vermin Board
discovered upon close investigation that he was in
communication with dingo-slayers in distant parts
where landed proprietors were giving high rates
for the latter ends of the voracious wild dog, and
that the far away trappers forwarded to him the
scalps of their dead, in return for which he sent
them the caudal appendages of all the dingoes he
exterminated. The parties drew cheques on the
exchanged scraps of untamed dog, and the recip-
rocal system was working satisfactorily when the
Vermin Board above-mentioned put down its
hoof and cut off Mr. Jone’s supplies and menaced
him with the utmost rigour of the law. Jim is
now fixed in a tight place, and his family has
fallen back on cold charity and hashed rabbit.


Send for interesting pamphlet on West Aus-
tralia ; post free. Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Ltd., % Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Edmund Yates make 3 a pathetic appeal
for subscriptions for the widow of the late Charles
Fechter, who has now lost everything—even her
son Paul.
The Americans are far ahead of us in the
matter of prison management. A young man
who was found guilty of forgery in California the
other day, actually begged the Judge to send him
to one particular prison, because there he would
have an opportunity of finishing his medical edu-
cation. His request was granted, but he will have
to stay there for seven yearn
CORRESPONDENCE
“E.M.P.” : Good extract “ PIS S ” : If the
Government would expend half the millions intended for
projected railways on water-conservation and irrigation
in the drought districts, the country—indeed, the whole
Continent—would be vastly benefited.. .Miserrcorlia
me” (Bathurst): When that priestly temperance thur-
derer, Father Kavanagh, wishes to raise funds to build
church or a convent, toe first place he tips for the coin i
the publio house—what he calls “ the very finger p st t
hell.” Have you never road the anecdote of V espasian
the Horn >n Emperor, and his son Titus, and a certain ta
which produced rosu ts as satisfactory as any other ? ...
"Grip”: Thanks. But we've sai 1 most of it alrrady...
‘ ‘ R.A.D.” (Bourke): Your verses show lively imaginatio
and a certain gift of expression. Try again. ..“E.A."
After I’arkes, “ Australia's greatest glory ” is, we should
say, Melbourne Public Library....“ W. Watkin ” : Jus
as when a house is burnt-down the insurance-policy i
always saved...." Anti-Cnow ’ (Botany): The victim anc
the vampire being both dead we shall never know th
genuine cause of the quarrel. It was probably the ole
gag of the “Caucasian being played out” by a question
of “Chinese cheap labour.” “John,” doubtless, de
manded his wages to go birthdaying with in style, anc
Morris aidn see his way clear. Hence the quarrel—
hence the tragedy. It ought to be a warning to all sort
and conditions of men not to employ labour who3e groar
are made in a foreign tongue and whose complaints find
intelligible expression only in a tomahawk or a road-pick
Give your countrymen a job if you have work at your
disposal for anyone, and do not pay wages to a man who
parts with his coin only for Chinese-imported rice.. .
“ S.M.C.” (Vie.): Some of it excellent, but it tails off
Have printed that which does you justice....“ A Human
Philosopher ”: A victim of the over-pressure of modern
civilisation. Cut the painter when you can “ Ver
monter ’ (Maitland) : Wilful trespass is trespass with the
actual knowledge or consent cf the trespasser. For in
stance, the trespass of stock on unfenced land would be
purely acoidental, unless said stock were driven upon the
unfenced land by the trespasser, i-i which c.seitwoilc
be legally considered wil ul. If st;ck rtmained on un
fenced land after the trespasser had been advised, the
period—after deducting a reasonable time f >r removal—
of said stock's wilful trespass would begin from the act
of warning ..." R J.” (Port Ad.): Many thanks....
“ E B.”: Dr. Samuel Johnson, anyhow, believed in
neither Local Op ion or Prohibition. He once said, “No,
sir; there is nothing which Las yet been contrived by
man, by which so much happiresi is produced as by a
good tavern or inn.” He was right. Tne ccff .i-palace,
for instance, is too c f;en a comprom'sj between a c .cino
and a boarding-house, in which you are supp sed to for-
give the inefficiency of the attendance and the 1 ck of
beverages a’eoholic because 3 - ou are waited cn b.y damsels
more or less pretty, who are suppjsed to engage your
eyes avhile they cheat your stomach. Of course, the C.P.
is right enough to sleep in. So is the condemned-eel'—
while you're asleep If cciibe-pa'aces had male atten-
dants, they would be much improved as a rule, but they
wouldn’t suit the dude... .•‘Su v scrib*r ' (Muttabur.a) :
Tney are always doing it. They live on steals.... “ Sub-
scriber ” (Maitland): Some are very good.. . “ J.J.p.” ;
Send us something we can lay hold 0f..,. “HM.”: N. xt
week.. ..‘‘Johnny Cake ” (Lawrence) : Much obliged...,
“ Bushman” (Western Port) : You are tight. We rpol -
gise.... Josephs. (Townsville): Australian ta'icna'by
before everything o 1 earth. M Ilwiaith was tl c first man
of weight to boldly advocate it, and teat’s why Tins
Bulletin regards him kindly. Thanks for your let er ..
“ Resurg-am ” (Tas.) : Illustrated Tit Bits didn’t origi-
nate the picture, and why should I hey be cr. d tid with
it ?....“ P.J S.”: Yes. We don't remember how many,
but Collins, in his “ History of N.S.W.” wf ich we have
not just now time to look through, mentions at least one.
■“ H. Lawrence ” : Excellent. Wr,te again.
“Ben Denny ”: A little too liveb’, isntit? “E. Mul
oahy”: Thanks....“ Yartan ” : Wr te to Mr. Dymock,
Messrs. Angus and Robfrtson, and Mr. Skinner, book*
sellers, all of Sydrny.... “ P G." : Notion very good, but
the garb in which you dress your thought isn’t goed
“ F.L.P.” (Strathfield) : Y r ou say :
“ And where he’s gone we cannot tell, perhaps to heaven
perhaps to hell—
It nutters nr t to us ;
He left no wife or child to mourn, he died f orsaker
quite forlorn.
But why make ail this fuss ?”
Yes, F.L.P., why do you ? “ Suicides ” are at a discount,
and “ Black’s Revenges ” hardly worth storage-room, as
for your eulogy of The Bulletin modesty forbids Had
you wrote something against us we might have published
it.... “ P.S.D.” ; A hoary joke.
Gluucestei shire gave “ Our Boys ” a sound
thrashing—by 247 runs.
Murderer Maxwell has been hanged at
last. He confessed his guilt.
Huddart Paiker and Co. have bought in
England a 19 knot boat for Port Phillip harbour
excursions.
The actions brought by the miners’
widows arainsb the Balli Coal Co. have been
“amicably squared.”
It is expected that 300 officers of the
N.S.W. Civil Service will shortly have their ser-
vices dispensed with.
When the miners strike there will be no
gas in church. How delightful it will then be to
attend choir-practice !
“Young man, don’t you feel well ?” asks
L. L. Smith. Why, of course the young man feels
well. He braces himself up with Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine.
Sydney D.T. is trying to frighten the
N.S.W. miners by booming up Japanese and
Vancouver Island coal as likely to outrival New-
castle in the ’Frisco market. The Americans
come to Newcastle, then, not because N.S.W.
coal is bett-r or cheaper, but because they love
Australia—because money is no objhct where the
bringing about of a complete federation of the
English-speaking races is in question ! There
may or may not be very good reasons why the
N.S.W. miners should not strike, but this isn’t
one of them.
History of Botany Bay.
Ifc is impossible to tell the story of Norfolk
Island. No writer would dare to put in
words one tithe of the record of that unex-
ampled hell upon earth. Such was the tiger-
like ferocity of the gaolers, on the one hand,
and of their caged victims on the other
such the bestiality and savagery that rulec
the cruelty, the misery, and the unspeakab
horror of that accursed plague-spot in tl
Pacific, that the task would be easier
describe an island of lepers than tha
civilised and enlightened moral experimen
No one has yet ventured to tell the trutl
the whole truth, about Norfolk Island, anc
probably no one ever will. Marcus Clarke
in his tale, has given a glimpse of what wen
on there ; but, even for the purposes o:
realistic fiction, the material that island h;
to supply is too brutal and too revolting fo
the most courageous realist to use. fhi
inquiry into the origin of our social anc
political system necessitates some historical
mention of Norfolk Island, but we will xro
linger on the unsavoury subject.
■* * #
We have already described how Lieutenan
King founded the settlement at Norfol
Island in March, 1788, and was relieved b
Major Ross twoyears later. The veryfirstline
of the island’s story, like that of Botany Bay
proper, are written in blood, for, unde
Major Ross, it will be remembered, mei
and women alike who would not work wer
“adjudged to suffer death.” Towards th
end of the following year King resumed th
chief-gaolership, and in 1800 Major Foveaux
went there as Lieutenant-Governor of tlu,
island. This worthy was one of the officer
of the infamous New South Wales Corps
and under him the place really began tc
produce its most refreshing results. There
is some information on this subject in eertaii
papers placed at the winter’s disposal, fron
which we gather, amongst other things, that
Norfolk Island was already regarded as “the
dwelling, place, of devils in human shape, the
refuse of Botany Bay, the doubly-damned,
and a place of horrid banishment and crue
treatment.” .
* *
Major Foveaux was the undisputed despot
of the place. He began by taking a fancy
to the wife of one of his non-commissioned
officers.. Sergeant Sherwin did not fall into
his Major’s domestic plans vei'y readily at
first, and hesitated about handing his wife
over. But Major Foveaux locked the Ser-
geant up for this insubordination, at the
same time confiscating his wife Under this
gentle suasion the Sergeant was brought to
a proper frame of mind, and induced to
think it better to save his life and lose h s
•wife than to lose both. “He was wise
enough,” we are told, “to perceive that it
is very foolish to quarrel with the judge
where there is no jury, for no man will give
a verdict against himself.'’ So Ann Sherwin
remained with the Major, and the Sergeant
left the regifnent as soon as he could shake
the dust off his feet, showing his sense of
the trouble that had been taken to impress
his mind with moral views by marrying
another svife soon after lb is an ill wind
that blows nobody good, however ; and Ann
Sherwin seems to have been a worn m with
an honest womanly heart, strangely out of
place as it was among her surroundings.
She acquired an influence over the “ tigerly
Major, and she was always ready to use it
on the side of the oppressed. Many thou-
sands of lashes were diverted from intended
victims by her interference, it is said, and
the prayers of men who never prayed before
were made for this gaoler’s mistress. But
in Noi'folk Island little regard was ever paid
to the morality of women or the lives of
men. Governor King introduced a system
which did away at once with any conven-
tional prejudices. He sold convict-women
to the highest bidder. This is what we are
told of him : “ Governor King’s proceedings
respecting the poor convict women on their
arrival in the colony was abominable. They
were disposed of by Potter, the bellman, a 3
so much live-stock. I have seen them after-
wards sold, some of them for a gallon of
rum, others for £5, and so on ; and thus
they were transferred from one brutal fel-
low to another, without remedy or appeal.”
How the convict lived in those days on the
island will not bear detailed description to
anyone who cares to preserve any remnant
of his original faith in human nature. But
the order of the day’s proceedings was some-
thing like this : The convicts were locked
up all night together in compartments, where
their berths were hung one above another
with the one object of crowding as many
men into a given space as possible. Two
hours before daylight in winter these
wretches were called out ; each one then'
tied up his bed and carried it out into the
yard where it lay all day in the rain or sun
as chance ruled. Convicts were then paraded
before the head gaoler’s door, and the
gangs would- then be taken out by over-
seers, and each man apportioned his
work. Some of them would work
hard to save some time in which they
might work for themselves to earn some pro-
visions, as five pounds of flour per week was
the maximum allowed them. It was a
pleasant diversion to the overseers to watch
for industrious people of this class in their
gangs, and send them to work in the surf as
soon as they were done their task. There
they usually remained till 10 o’clock at
night, being without food all day. “ I have
myself with them experienced this treat-
ment,” says one of them, “and have bee
sent back to gaol with the gang wet fro
head to foot, in which condition we ha\
been turned in and reckoned like a flock o
sheep, without time being allowed us to pr
pare our food The next morning, whe
the bell rang at 5 o’clock, the order fo
every one to get up was given in the
words : 1 Get up, you damned souls ! ’ VV
had then to look for our wet rags ; and i:
the slightest grumbling escaped the lips o
anyone the order was ‘To the triangle
where the (logger was ready to give the ur
fortunate wretch 25 lashes, after receivin
which he had to go back to his work as
usual. I ask,” continues this victim of wha
he describes, “ whether hanging or shooting
which puts a man out of his misery at once
is not infinitely preferable to this kind o:
treatment 1 ”
* * *
The case is given of a young man, a
Irish political prisoner, who was compelloc
to walk about and work with a chain weigh
ing 12 pounds on his legs, and while suffei
ing from dysentery was driven into th
sea to carry packages ashore from th
boats He became too weak to work
and had his irons knocked off when tot
late, for he died soon after. There wa
really only one check on the irresponsible
cruelty of the gaolers, and that lay in then
sense of the fact that a convict could at any
moment escape from their gangs and revenge
himself at the same time by knocking then
on the head. This was very often done, ant
the wild justice of revenge was very fre
quently invoked by some overwrought victim
of the system, as we have already seen. “ I
I could have bought or borrowed a pistol,’
wrote one of these convicts afterwards,. “ the
world, I think, would soon have been rid o:
this man-killer, Foveaux ; for, why shoulc
any man, with the means of placing himself
on equal terms, .and exchanging life for life
without the endurance on his part of pro-
tracted misery, allow himself to be murdered
by a lingering death, and see his murderer
rejoicing before him ?” This most natural
question doubtless suggested itself more or
less definitely many thousands of times to
the victims of the convict-system, and the
wonder is that the impulse was not acted on
more frequently. “ There are cases in which
a man who shudders at the idea of murder
may be obliged to become an assassin in self-
defence,’ continues this embryotic cut-
throat, reflectively; “and did not tyrants
feel and tremble at this power which an act
of self-sacrifice can accomplish, there would
be, I believe, more despotism and injustice
in the world than already exists.” This
convict-philosopher has nob had his con-
fidence ini Ins folio winch increased by his
observations, but, there is a merciless truth
ab nit lii.s logic that must commend itself to
everyone who feels the slightest spark of the
fine tire of assassma on in his soul.
® * *
Foveaux’s best achievement was a little
Sabbath observance he went through one
Sunday. Of course there was no limit to
tiie Governor’s power to hang or shoot any
of his happy family when lie felt so disposed,
but sometimes the fancy seized him at un-
conscionable times. It is quite, .easy to
understand that his duties in Norfolk Island
sometimes palled on the Major, and a little
stimulating excitement on such occasions
would be like the morsel of Gruyere that
brings out the real flavour of -your wine. So
one Sunday Foveaux took two men out of
church, where they sat listening to the par-
son’s prayers, put them iua cell, and two
hours later hanged them without trial, and
without wearying them with any idle ex-
planation of his freak. The charge was the
usual one of conspiring to mutiny, but pro-
bably the Major had found the parson’s prayer
slow or his sermon dull. It is unfair to criticise
the Major s action without being acquainted
with his motives. Yet this is what some
good people had the excessively bad taste to
do, and Foveaux was actually recalled to
explain his conduct in hanging these two
men. His disgust at the worry about such
a trifle was extreme, as if no one had ever
been shot or hanged or flogged to death
before. But justice held her unrelenting
sway. In the absence of prosecutor, plaintiff,
evidence, or public opinion, Major Foveaux
was acquitted without a stain on his soul or
a blot on his character. The order of St.
Michael and George had not been devised as a
reward for colonial merit in those benighted
days, but the Major was made a Lieutenant-
Colonel, and allowed to return to the
colony.
c •
This kind of thing continued until 1805,
when the island was evacuated and the
settlers sent to Van Diemen’s Land, where
they settled on Norfolk Plains, named after
the island they left. The prisoners went
with them. It was not until August 15,
1826, that Norfolk Island was again pro-
claimed a place of detention for convicts re-
convicted in New South Wales. At this
point its history re-eommences, and from
that time until the convict-system was finally
broken up, the saturnalia of crimes against
humanity went on again. In 1834, Judge
Burton, who once wrote an absurd book on the
“ State of Religion and Education in New
South Wales” (and who died in England in
August, 1888, aged93)went there toholda ses-
sion of his Court for the trial of some convicts
who had made an ineffectual attempt at revolt,
and Avhat he elicited at that trial and pub-
lished thereupon in his ridiculous book shows
what progress had been made in the island
of horror during the ten years since it was
re-oponed as a convict settlement. Ati this
trial 87 witnesses were examined, and, i
the words of the Judge who tried the case
their evidence “revealed to the Court such
picture of depravity, as it may be assumet
no human Judge ever had revealed to lih
before.” Most of the evidence against tli
prisoners was given by convict informers
and these people were cross-examined by th
prisoners with a view to rendering their tes
timony valueless by demonstrating th
characters of the men who gave it. Thi
brought out a mass of appalling fact
relating to the state of affairs on the island
Herded together like pigs as they were, an<
with all the hopes and feelings of mei
crushed out of them, these disclosures re
vealed a condition of things to which th
state of pigs was preferable. Thirty of tin
prisoners were sentenced to death, and it i
recorded that some of these men showet
signs of capacity and education, and sonu
had wives and families belonging to them ii
the outer world from which they had bum
cut off.
• • *
When these 30 men were sentenced to
death, and their last hope was taken from
them, the judge tells us that they “com-
pleted the abominable revelation by com-
menting to the judge, in earnest, deep, but
calm expostulation, on the crimes committed
there.” It was so long since these derelict
wretches had seen the slightest human in-
terest exhibited in their miseries that they
absolutely luxuriated in such attention as a
judge may give in sentencing a prisoner.
“ One of them,” says Judge Burton. “ a man
who displayed singular ability, and uncom-
mon calmness and self-possession under cir-
cumstances so appalling to ordinary minds,
represented the place to be hell on earth
“ and most assuredly it was,” adds the
judge, “so far as the torments of that
Region are made up of the company of Evil
Spirits glorying in Evil Deeds. ” A.nd really
to read these dreadful disclosures suggests
nothing so much as the imaginary tortures
described as appertaining to the medneval
hell. “ Let a man’s heart be what it will,”
said the same prisoner on the same occasion,
“ when he comes here his Man’s heart is
taken from him and there is given to him
the heart of the Beast!”—words which might
as fittingly have been written over the gates
of all those old convict settlements as Dante’s
despairing words over the portals of the
Inferno.
• • *
The mind refuses to dwell on this subject.
It is hard to believe for the credit of human
nature that such things as we know to have
taken place at Norfolk Island, should ever
have been. But the testimony of facts is so
strong, and the facts themselves are so re-
cent, that no room is left for doubt, and the
inevitable must be perforce accepted. Judge
Burton was struck with horror at what he
heard and saw there. His description of
what he saw on visiting the gaols where the
convicts were hived one above the other in
tiers of hammocks, or chained in rows to
beams running down the centre of the
apartment, is suggestive of nothing more
than some of those efforts of horror of the
Florentine who drew from his lurid imagina-
tion those pictures of the Malebolge pool.
Burton described the island, in his fjuaint,
old-fashioned way, as “a cage full of unclean
birds, full of Crimes against God and Man,
Murders and Blasphemies, and all Unclean-
ness.”
• * *
Such was the horror that the name of
Norfolk Island inspired in the minds of the
most desperate convicts that many stories
are told of attempts to escape from the ves-
sels that took them down to the island. In
1827 a serious outbreak occurred in the
settlement, and 50 escaped to Phillip Island,
seven miles away, but were either killed or
re-captured by the governor of Norfolk
Island, who took their place of refuge by
assault. A brig was seized and taken
away by prisoners in 1827. In 1842 the
convicts rose on the island and captured the
(lovemor Phillip, which carried supplies.
The convict boat’s crew who were employed
between the vessel and the shore disarmed
the sentry at a pre-concerted signal, forced
some of the vessel’s crew to jump overboard,
and secured the captain, mate, and soldiers
below deck. The captain and mate managed
to break through a partition, joined with the
soldiers, and fired with effect through the
crevices at the convicts. They then rushed
on deck, engaged in a hand-to-hand struggle,
and soon re-captured the vessel after five
convicts had beenkilled and two wounded, and
one soldier killed and five wounded. Four
convicts were hanged for their share in this
affair. The notorious Knatchbull, the
“ Jamieson-street murderer,” was also con-
cerned in a mutiny on the way to the settle-
ment. From the first day that Norfolk
Island was set apart as a penal station until
the convicts Avere finally removed, that
accursed spot in the wide Pacific held its
wretches who Avere marooned there in a
state of torment as fierce as Tophet and as
hopeless as hell.


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell's Snow-whitk Patrnt Rot,t,hr Flour is the
best in the marieet.
Send for interesting pamphlet on West Aus-
tralia ; post free. Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths, TTorsns nnd bnp-Q'ieo for hire
Send for interesting pamphlet on West Aus-
tralia ; post free. Intercolonial Investment Co.
Ltd., 90 Bathurst street, Sydney.
The Oceanic Company are going to fight
the N S.W. labour unions. It is cabled that the
whites shipped by the Alameda at Sydney return
as passengers, and that the Chinese firemen are to
be retained. This means war to the knife.
t» o S
r-M o
g u s
Kfi t
Agents.
DELISSA& PHILLIPS
<?& J Ba^ck
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Rotali.— “ A Fool’s Revenge” p. 14
Her Majesty’s. —“ Lights o’ London ” „
Criterion. —“Jim the Penman ” „
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy
Academy of Music. —Federal Minstrels „
On Monday and Tuesday, at the Sydney
Royal, Mr. Charles Warner’s company played
Lytton’s ancient tear-stained drama of “ The
Lady of Lyons,” which, with all its false and
mawkish sentiment and all its elegant finicalness
of phrasing has in it just enough of the true salt
of human feeling to ensure a patient and, mayhap,
mildly enthusiastic hearing for at least two nights.
“ The Lady of Lyons ” is strikingly similar in the
irritation it produces in the mind of the ordinary
healthy male to “ East Lynne.” Claude Mel-
notte, the gardener’s son, has only to say “ 1 am
an earl’s daughter ” and the seats in the stalls
would b 8 fleckt udth sympathetic handkerchiefs
and the air thick with woe. There never
was a woman like Pauline, who when she
was really enamoured of a gardener’s son dressed
as a prince would have quarrelled with him while
he still kept his pretty clothes on. Women, on
the stage or off, rarely worry much about what a
man is, so long as he looks like that which they
want him —no, not to be to look. The sentiment
of the “Lady of Lyons” is repulsively Della
Cruscan, the tragedy is the tragedy of Watteau,
the characters are Dresden-china shepherds and
shepherdesses masquerading in pastoral ballet dis-
guises, the language is a gastronomic delicacy de-
signed for gilt-fringed bon-bon mottoes.
* * *
Mr. Charles Warner dresses effectively
and utters the sugar-candy speeches and the
volumes of false and frippish sentiment with a
courage worthy a nobler and a truer cause. He
lisps with becoming saccharinity the dulcet trifles
that please the baby-souls of the Paulines of the
woeful drama and strikes the necessary number of
poses that go to make up the outside of the impos-
sible Melnotte. Miss Isabel Morris is good in a
subdued way till she gets inside the widow’s little
cottage, when she acts with a spirit and vigour, in
the scene in which she heaps the ashes of her wrath
on Melnotte’s head, that bring down the house.
In this act Mr. Warner had a rather bad lapse
and almost succeeded in drowning the sentimental
native of Lyons in a reminiscential fl xd-wave of
“Drink.” The curtain descended and saved him
from such a hideous catastrophe. The best acting
in the piece is, however, that of Mr. H. H. Vin-
cent, who, as General Damas, makes an ideal
French soldier of the Consulate and Grand Army
days, and carries himself with a rough d'gnity
and a semi-humorous military brusqueness which,
by the time the cur fain is rung down on the last
art, have made him a more genuine favourite than
the hero of the drama. Mr. Herbert Flemming,
as Beauseant, has a part which in no way suits
him, and Miss Jenny Watt-Tanner, as the mother
of Melnotte, has no opportunity for the exercise of
her peculiir powers. “Hamlet” follows “The
Lady of Lyons,” after which Mr. Warner benefits
as Mr. Honeyton in “ The Happy Pair ” and Bi r-
t iccio in ‘ The Fool’s Revenge. ’
Mr. Charles Warner entertained at a lun-
cheon-at the Royal Hotel Sydney, the other day, a
number cf lis Sydney fri-nds and admirers. Tne
.laynil Dan, planter of poets and raiser of tomb-
stones, was, of courte, there; “Old Sir John”
was there also, and, in recognition of his services
for many years in the leading rule at the Sydney
Macquarie-street Vaudeville, to him was entrusted
the task of proposing the health of a
brother actor. He did it fairly well, said that
he took little interest ia theatricals on account of
inherited mental objections to the stage which
had come to him from the teachings of Dr. Lang
of pious memory. Of course everybody pre-
tended to take this as a joke and laughed “ con-
sumedly,” Mr. Warner very suitably and pleas-
antly acknowledged the compliment implied by
Sir John Robertson’s multifarious remarks, the
w tving c f glassts by the company, and a vocifer-
ous cheering and shouting in the part of all
hands, and a pleasant affair fell to pieces in the
throe? of universal satisfaction,
*■ * * *
On Tuesday, at the Sydney Criterion,
Mes-rs Brough and Boucicault succeeded
“Modern Wives” with “Jim the Penman”
with a special engagement of Miss Agnes Thomas,
Messrs. Harry St. Maur and Geo. W. An on.
A notice of the piece will appear mxt week.
## # #
Ada Ward’s litt’e compary has splintered
all over Sydney. Frank Gerald and Mrs Edwin
Palmer have j fined the Warner company at the
Sydney Royal and F. Sianmaur has budded into
public notice at the Criterion.
The Hiscocks-Friedman Specialty Com-
bination at Sydney Academy has secured a novelty
in the musical vagaries of Devere and Oakes.
Devere is a comedian of a marvellous get-up and
a carbonised countenance. Oakes a pretty
modest little woman with a gentle voice and a
quiet smile. Be-ides a considerable amount of
by-play, they waken soulful melody from banjos,
zithers, pianos, organ-pipes, domestic bellows, toy
violins, et hoc genus omne. The show concludes
with these musical jugglers instead of the more
or less rational charcoal farce of hitherto and the
times that are no more.
## # #
Miss Yon Fink elst ein, at Sydney Y. M. C. A.,
is still painting the walls of man’s mental dark-
ness with Oriental frescoes imported from Jeru-
salem. The Right Rev R S. Smythe, D.D.,
M.T., gives his episcopal blessing nightly and the
early hour at which the doxology is sung gives the
godly time to indulge in a solid hour’s spiritual
meditation at home before midnight. Miss
I’inkelstein’s “At Home” last Saturday at the
Oxford Hotel was numerously attended by the
fashionables of the town.
## # *
Maccabe is running “Dull Care” out of
the Sydney suburbs.
42. X
*7V* TV 'A' 'A'
Miss Amy Sherwin’s season at Melbourne
Opera House ended in a cry of lamentation last
week. “ Der Freischutz ” was freely advertised
for Tuesday night, but at the last moment a sordid-
minded orchestra declined to tune up unless their
salaries were paid, therefore over went the show.
As many of the assembled audience as were not
deadheads received their money back, and the
festive scene was turned off at the meter without
further delay. The causes of Miss Sherwin’s in-
evitable burst up have been faithfully set forth in
MeltSw riNfro “. tl “e to trine, the while that
werennmf n- aCOredlted P of the truth
“ F^ hlDg gorgeous accounts of her triumphs.
Mr good-enough performance while
alrealkHn , 8 VOlC . e he d out > but the show was
already m a dying state before “Faust” arrived.
d rr ate and Herr Amy Sherwin
Lorlrtz has hung his schedule on the willow-tree.
'*# # #
,\ efc pother company is attempting to
lighten the chronic gloom of Melbourne Alexandra
with the smile of popular favour. On Saturday,
? “ 01 Z , d V an ?f-“ Master and Man ’’-founded
upon Zolas Germinal,” was produced by Mr.
r Thab J ery capital actor has the
as 'stance of Miss Alice Deorwyn, Messrs. Hay-
gartb, Montgomery, and a few unknowns who
\ assis t much. Mr. Sidney has taken the
theatre for 18 nights, and can be relied on to give
a show far in advance of some that have made the
Alexandra such a hard road to travel. By the
way, it is said tbat Dampier contemplates leasing
the house. If so, good luck to him.
## # #
An indescribable something, bearing the
title of Little Nell and the Marchioness,” was
revived at Melbourne Roj al on S diudav i iaht,
after a blissful interval of 14 years. Certain in-
cidents taken from “The Old Curiosity Shop”
have been crushed out of all recognition and then
dropped into this work upside dowD, bat when
crushed incidents are scarce the vacuum is fitted
by professional boxers, or variety business, until
an opportunity offers for the curtain to fall upon
a monotonous tableau of everybody whacking
kDlip with a shovel. The result is a story not
half so coherent as a circus and far less improving
than a tract cut up into pipelights. Poor Charles
Ibckens died before this version of his novel was
originally deranged for Miss Maggie Moore, other-
MISS VON FINKELSTEIN.
wise it would certainly have brought his gray hairs
with sorrow to the grave. However, there is
much in “Little Nell and the Maichioness ” to
please all who feel so disposed, and it may be
safely recommended for children as a substitute
for pantomime. Mr. Gourlay strikes a happy
medium between Quilp and Harvey Duff. Mr.
John Forde makes a heavy tragedian of Dick
Swiveller, and Miss Swain is alternately funny
and interesting, without once suggesting either
the Marchioness or Little Nell. Also, at one
point of the proceedings, Carrie performs in green
satin and silk stockings, but which half of her
“dual role ” she is then undertaking must for ever
remain a mystery. A host of minor characters
are liberally filled, and the professional boxing is
replete with human interest.
** # *
The Roscians brought off their two
Shakespearian performances at Melbourne Royal
with much social success. Their friends and
relatives filled the house each night, and things
were so eminently respectable that Hamlet left
out all those rude words which might have brought
a blush to the cheek of innocence. Miss Maggie
Knight and some other professional ladies sup-
ported the amateurs, who cut better figures than
might be imagined. Hamlet was quite the beau
ideal of a sexton.
We confidently expect a gruesome tragedy
before the Gaiety angels have departed this
hemisphere. Just now a broken-up admirer, who
weeps copiously, is walking about with a revolver,
and if somebody else doesn’t die we guess the
broken up one will die himself.
*# # *
The Exhibition concert-room was closed
to the vulgar populace two days last week, in
order that the local nobility might enjoy music
and victuals in the undisturbed contemplation of
their own greatness. On other occasions there
were good attendances, and, as the weather im-
proves, it is to be hoped that Australia will
acquire a taste for classical music without being
doomed to have lumbago thrown in. On
purely orchestral days most of the seats are
free as air, and sometimes the Commissioners
make all the seats free —for their specially-invited
friends. Mr. Cowen appears to be considerably at
the Commissioners private disposal.
#* # #
The Spanish Students, who give a very
likely sort of entertainment, open at Melbourne
Opera House early next month. They come under
engagement to Mr. Martin Simonsen.
** * *
When is an actor not an actor ? Nine
times out of ten.
*# # #
Larry Foley has left the stage and returned
to his legitimate business. Puuching.
** * *
Replying to the charge that he writes for
fdthy lucre, Emile Zola says that he has made, on
the whole, about £4OOO by each of his novels,
whilst his dramatic pieces, “ L’Assommoir ” ex-
cepted, have hardly paid copying-expenses and
cab-hire. He says that if he wanted money he
should certainly not allow himself to lose any time
in being so slashed at by dramatic critip3 when he
could sit at home and write in view of certain
profit. “Pray,” says the author of “Pot
Bouille,” “do not think me a fool, even if you
consider me of the canaille .” Zola laments that
people do not care for his plays because wretches
die of hunger in them, and those who have had
good dinners have no sympathy with starvelings.
The public like the “ Surprises du Divorce ”
because they are harassed with politics and want
to laugh. “They do not,’’says Zola, “care for
literary plays, because thinking gives trouble.”
## # #
The “young bloods” of Adelaide have
actually been “bantering ” Plain Bill Holloway.
- * * «
The seats for the Gaiety Burlesque Co. ’s
opening night in Sydney were auctioned on Tues-
day afternoon by Mr. Mills, who, had he been a
humourist instead of a stolid member of the
N.S.W. Freetrade party, would have had a grand
opportunity. “This, gentlemen, the first row of
the stalls, is just the location for the bald-headed.
What shall we say for this lot ? Need I tell you,
gentlemen, that in buying seats for a leg-show
the main thing is to get as near as possible
to the beauteous spectacle at which you
yearn to gaz« ?” And so on. But Mills auc-
tioned the seats as though they had been
cheeses. Harry M‘Quade paid £l2 for the only
box offered. Mr. Dymock bought 70 seats on
spec., at an average of just over 10s. Some few
dress-circle seats brought as much as 255., and
none were sold under 10s. 'There was a rush
for stalls, which brought correspondingly good
prices.
## # #
W. S. Gilbert is dramatising George Eliot’s
“ Ttomola.”
“Fritz ” Emmet, at latest, was at Omaha,
awakening “the wildest enthusiasm.”
** # *
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove say
they have no present intention of dissolving
partnership.
## # #
The property-man at a theatre is called
“Props.” The performers are mostly sticks.
*4/, jc
*7f* *7\S Tr
Magician Kellar, at latest, was in Boston
#* # #
Two deadheads aren’t better than one.
#* # *
Holloway and Shakesbaconspeare have
shaken the dust of Adelaide from off their
buskined tootsies, and the divine Essie has packed
up her travelling-trunk and gone to another
sphere of limelight. Plain Bill’s beauteous rela-
tive, though gone before, is not forgotten, and the
people of Adelaide cherish the sacred lock of re-
collection amid the sordid joys of the passing hour.
## # #
The two opera companies—both William-
son, Garner, and Musgrove’s—playing in pious
Adelaide have amalgamated, and a 50-ton com-
bination is the result. Their preliminary canter
will be “La Mascotte.”
A very big event
comes off at the Bijou
next Saturday (18th), on
which occasion Mr.
Robert Brough is billed
to ma Ice his re-appearance
as “ The Magistrate.”
Melbourne has seen
nothing of its Brough
since he fell dangerously
ill 10 months ago, and
the city will roll up to.
welcome an old favourite
restored to health and
strength. “The Magis-
trate” u to be put
through by a galaxy of
c imedy talent in the best
Brough-Boucicault style.
*# # #
Charles Warner wi 1
probably settle in Aus-
tralia.
*# # #
The amount taken
at Patti’s first perform-
ance at Buenos Ayres
in April was £4480.
Patti receives fIOOO a
night certain in gold, and
if the receipts exceed
£2OOO she gets 40 ptr
cent, of the surplus. Sle
is c nly obliged to sing
twice a week, need not
attend rehearsals, and
receivesalsoall travelling
and hotel ex censes fcr
herself, her husband, her
secretary, and three do
mestics.
* # *
Modjeska has flown
in the face of tradition
by going mad, as
Ophelia, in a sage-green
gown. It is against all
the customs of the stage
op-ratio, or dramatic, for
a mad scene to be e nacted
in any but white gar-
ments. The sallow actress
who persists in dressing
in white drives many
men mad.
* * #
Mr. and Mrs. Kendal
will pay another profes-
sional visit to America
before the end of the
year. Which reminds
us that the Trium-
virate might do worse
than bring out this ac-
complished couple, with
Mr. Mackintosh —who is
not a stranger to Austra T
lia —and show what can
be done here with plays
like “The Squire” and
“ Money Spinner,” in
both of which Mrs.
Kendal can wring tears
from a flint.
'*• It It
The Vivians drift from Adelaide Garner’s
and Tommy Hudson opens with a big' variety
troupe on the 18th.


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
HOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN 001/)NI¥S.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
fiven for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
)ress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by Quittendon Bros., 11l Russell-
street, Melbourne,
PEPPER
Salt
Land specs, are still agog in Melbourne.
The other day, a client called on a well- known M. P.,
who is extensively mixed up with big syndicates
and has an office in the city. The visitor was con'
fronted by a clerk who informed him with a
facetious leer that the boss was away “getting off
a bit of land.” Investigation proved that the
M.P. was having a shilling bath.
BETWEEN JOURNALISTS.
“YES, I READ YOUR EDITORIAL THIS MORNING—I EVEN READ IT TWICE.”
“OH! YOU CONFUSE ME-IT IS VERY KIND OF YOU-”
“NOT AT ALL—I READ IT TWICE IN ORDER TO MAKE OUT WHAT YOU
MEANT.”
There is a Brisbane butcher named
Tripe.
The Tramway and Omnibus Co.’s Em-
ployees’ Union in Brisbane have decided to meet
at midnight on the last Monday-Tuesday of every
month. This is poaching on the hours dear to
ghosts and anarchists.
A writer in a new protectionist paper,
Grib, published at Grafton, N.S.W., signs his
articles “The Devil.” Leaders of religious sects
should not enter into the domain of politics, we
admit, but the rise in sulphur and the admission
of dynamite duty-free is enough to make even Old
Nick a Protectionist.
Editor Bulletin,— ln a recent Maitland
Mercury is an extract reprinted from the S.M.
Herald and purporting to be a digest of Premier
Parkes’ Fencing Act. If the copy is a fair one
the act is far from grappling with the subject in
the able and exhaustive manner claimed for it by
the Herald ; one curious and important matter
at any rate is undealt with. The Act known as
the N.S.W. Land Act of 1884—*48 Vic.. No. 18
clause, 130 page of Government Pamphlet 41,
says : —“ No person occupying land under
a conditional purchase or conditional or
homestead lease shall be entitled to bring
any action for trespass (other than a wilful
trespass) on such land until he shall have fenced
such land pursuant to the provisions of this
act.” No repeal of this clause appears in the
MerOury, and the unsuspecting cocky who sub-
stitutes other improvements in lieu of boundary-
fencing under this short Act will find himself un-
able to turn his neighbour’s cow out of his corn-
field or front garden, no matter how many pad-
docks may be fenced nor how securely; he has -no
remedy for trespass unless his boundary is fenced.
Yours truly, Vermonter.
Coals can be landed in Sydney from
England within is. 6d. of the price at which they
can be got from Newcastle.
Quite recently there retired from the
public service of New South Wales, at the age of
81, a railway official to whom a generous country
allows £ll 19s. per annum,
Last week 3000 shares in Mount Morgan
gold-mine were sold in Brisbane for £48,000 cash,
the buyer offering to take 10,000 shares at the
same price,_ £l6. A Sydney daily points out that
on the basis of this sale Mount Morgan mine is
valued at 16 millions sterling—more than three
times the total annual gold production of the
whole of Australia, N.Z., and Tasmania ! Also,
that, according to the first report of the Mount
Oostigan North Silver-mining Company, out of
the £12,500 realised from application and allot-
ment, £930 only has been spent in mining opera-
tions, stores, and management, while £l3OB has
gone in “floating the company,” and £lO,OOO to
the promoters. This is a very good sample of the
kind of “mining” which is favoured by a
boom.”
Dear Bulletin, — In answering your cor-
respondent, “ S.S.” you say: “Navvies get 7s.
per day in protected Victoria, and are well satis-
fied, as it entails constant work.” This is mere
bunkum. That navvies are not satisfied there is
abundant evidence. Note the late diplomatic
skirmishing between Trenwith, the Railway Com-
missioners, and Nimmo (that sympathetic indivi-
dual who, when the unemployed ask for bread,
gives them stones to break) re the sub-letting at
the Watts River and the Great Southern Rail-
way. Note, too, the recent strike at Bacchus
Narsh. Navvying is a class of work that has
been so degraded by State intrigues and money-
grubbing contractors that few men of any spirit
could be satisfied to stand long the insolent
domineering of a ruffianly bully who is bribed by
a higher rate of wages than his fellows to act the
tyrant. You know full well that contractors, as
a rule, prefer keeping men miserable and depend-
ant ; you have heard, no doubt, of the grog-shanty
and advertising dodges, and the shameful way in
which men have been swindled when on piece-
work • you know that men have at times to travel
hundreds of miles in search of work, carrying like
snails their houses on their backs ; you know that
men have to rough it in tents, very' often on bad
camping-ground, with little wood and bad water,
working in winter ankle-deep in mud, in
summer under the broiling sun. To say that a
class of men labouring under such disadvantages
as these are well satisfied is an insult that nine out
of every 10 navvies would resent by knocking you
down. Mr. Editor, a word in your ear : Would
you be well satisfied to work in Victoria as a
navy ’—Robert Beattie. [No, we’d never be
really satisfied with anythirg except Heaven.
The word “ satisfied ” was used comparatively and
Pickwickianly.—En. B ]
A SLAB FROM ONE OE THE UNSUC-
CESSFUL MELBOURNE EXHIBITION
CANTATAS.
Welcome to Guests.
Brothers all with aught to sell,
Hither come, we love you all.
See the mighty dome arise,
That you all may advertise.
You of nasal twang so pure,
Welcome with your Certain Cure.
Bring the cannons out of date ;
And Birmingham’s electroplate—
See the mighty dome arise,
That you all may advertise.
Part 11.
Australia’s Clean Past.
Unstained the crystal stream steals down
From yonder mist-clad mountain’s crown,
And, to make it doubly sure, to remain for ever
pure.
The gums its silent banks caress, guardians of its
cleanliness;
It might have been for ever so but for Mr.
Bosisto.
Then with gentle horn-tipped paw, see the sad
marsupial draw
Its young from out its hidden nest, warmer than
the human breast,
And, in some secluded place, wash its loving up-
turned face.
Stealthily the bushes part, black of face but white
of heart,
The native comes with scanty dress, but the
animal is blessed,
For natives know not what to do with the tail
of kangaroo.
Part 111.
Australia’s Dirty Present.
Farewell the crystal streams,
Welcome the drains that stink ;
Farewell poetic dreams,
Welcome the skating-rink.
At civilization’s glance
The gums withered, sere and dead,
That beneath death might dance
Rampant cn typhoid bed.
(Two columns unavoidably held over sine die.)
HOW TO BECOME A STATESMAN.
(IN A NEW COUNTRY.)
Oh, if a statesman thou wouldst be,
Then take thy cue from one of three
Whom we here photograph for thee !
It dulls the sense of brotherhood
To have to fight for public good
And then go home and find no food.
’Tis that which makes so many stay
At home and work, and let the gay
And festive statesman gab all day.
But if we show, as we shall do,
How gab may yield thee tenfold screw,
Then gab and be a statesman, too.
Here is a picture ! Years ago
The hair that now is white as snow
Was raven-black as poet’s sloe.
And he who owned that hair essayed
To leave the ranks of humble trade,
And forthwith left them, undismayed.
And night by night his voice was loud
On stump and platform, till the crowd
Before his oratory bowed.
But what, thou askest, did he then,
For empty cheers of empty men
Bring nothing unto childhood’s pen ?
Behold the silly heads that long
To rise above the common throng
But know no method, right or wrong !
Behold the stubborn heads that hear
In ev’ry upward public cheer
A menace which they hate and fear !
Their feet were ready to make speed
To ease the tribune’s pressing need
And chain him to them by the deed.
So if thou hast the fervent sweep
Of word and gesture which will keep
The crowd on fire—go in and reap !
The second picture meets thy case,
If thou’st been stinted in the grace
Of word, of gesture, and of face.
From stool to shop he kept an eye
On “ rings ” that make society
With them a pass to earth and sky.
They passed him on from chair to chair,
Till stool and shop forgotten were,
Or, what is just as good, till their
Emoluments turned pale in view
Of a high Ministerial screw
With half a bank attached thereto !
So if thou act as he, the stings
1 !i.. will fly thee, for the “ rings ”
Will plant thee in the front of things.
But there’s a picture still that stands
For careful notice, for, in lands
Like these, the more cards in one’s hands
The better. It may be that thou
Away in early days didst bow
Before a god not pop’lar now.
If that be so, watch him whose days
Are spent in bawling out dispraise
On all who tread his ancient ways !
*J om the old clan he one time served,
When stronger-brained and better-nerVed,
lie lias not simply Veered or swerved,
But has shot off in such wild plight
Tha,t strangers think him mad with light,
And old hands wink and Jaugh outright.
But still it fetched them, brought him Votes.
And votes are fruitful dams of notes,
And notes insure a man in oats.
So if a statesman then wouldst be,
Just take thy cue from one of three
Whom we have photographed for thee !
[A bank-draft for 4d. will be sent to the first
person who names the indicated Three.—En. Bj
A pilgrim from old Palestine
Has come across the ocean’s brine,
W. her e, buried deeply, winkles pine,
Miss 1 inkelstein, Von Finkelstein !
She shows us that the true-born Jews
Abjure belltoppers, patent shoes,
And never hang three large, gilt balls
Outside their ancient family halls,
How couldst thou leave that land divine,
Where nought but simple graces shine
On faces with no wrinkles fine,
Miss Finkelstein, Von Finkelstein ?
Where patriarchal, wandering Jews
Lead flocks in garb of many hues,
The same fantastic gaberdine
That Father Abram jabber’d in.
Here Israel’s bent on getting gold—
bor every coin the Christians hold
The Jewish section tinkles nine,
Miss Finkelstein, Von Finkelstein ;
Here, not ’mid Syria’s rocks and sand,
They’ve found their long time Promised Land
And so most firmly they’ll decline
To quit it, e’en for Palestine.
Personal Items.
Rider Haggard, the novelist, is only 30.
A son of ex-President Hayes is a working
carpenter.
There is now not a Waterloo officer left in
the British army.
Ouida, it is reported, is very ill and has
become very religious.
Dr. Macgregor, the Governor of British
New Guinea, Was once a ploughman in Aberdeen-
shire.
“ Sara ” Bernhardt’s real name is not Sara,
but Rosalie ; and she is iiot a Jewess. She is a
Roman Catholic.
Rev. Mahoney, formerly of Armidalc
(NiS.W.), was recently created Archbishop of
Toronto, by the Pope.
Not one Melbourne publisher would risk
Fergus Hume’s “Mystery of a Hansonl Cab.”
The book was published by a friend.
A candidate for Parliamentary honors at
the last Queensland election is travelling with a
panorama in the neighbourhood of Sydney.
Thomas Hardy, the wealthiest vigneron
in the Australian colonies, commenced his career
as a market-gardener near Adelaide 35 years ago.
It has been generally remarked that Lord
Carington’s speech at the Melbourne Exhibition
opening was excellent. Suspiciously excellent, in
fact.
Here he is again. A man named George
Thorpe, who is said to have fought with Welling-
ton at Waterloo, died in Otago, the other day,
aged over 100 years.
Another wealthy absentee has “pegged
out” in England—Hon. James Gibson, M.L.C.
(Q.), whose real and personal estate is valued at
half-a million sterling.
One of the wealthiest of Australian news-
paper proprietors chews tobacco all day. And
yet he professes to believe in a future state of
reward and punishment.
Another “ big ” legal defaulter. If what
is alleged be true, Bismarck’s proverb holds good
once more. “An Englishman who speaks perfect
French is always a rascal.”
Governor Napier Broome (W.A.) seems
to have forbidden pressmen Government House
on all occasions. His popularity among Western
journalists has fallen to zero.
The most aristocratic (as popularly con-
sidered) looking man to be met with in the
V ictorian House of Parliament is an usher. Not
the “dignified Usher,” either.
Rev. J. H. Zillman, editor of the Darling
Downs (Q.) Gazette, was one of a band of mis]
sionaries sent out from Germany to convert the
Australian aborigines 50 years ago.
Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, says he will not book a solitary advertise-
ment, not even for his dear friend the parson ; and
that in future he will put his faith only in filthy
lucre.
Doctor “ Diamond ” Beaney, of Mel-
bourne—an old friend—presented Madame Lachal,
of Hawthorn, on her birthday with a diamond
necklace worth 800 guineas. Physic pays well in
Melbourne.
John Matthew Smith, a Melbourne solicitor
dating from the fifties, has presented the Vic-
torian National Gallery with his valuable collec-
tion of rare books and works of art, the collection
of a life-time.
A recently-deceased N.S.W. pietist who
dabbled in land-speculation has left a certain
building society £lO,OOO short. He is reported to
have poisoned himself, though the medical certifi-
cate said “apoplexy.”
Dailey was considered the best para-
graphs of his journalistic days. His pen gained
for the Sydney Freeman’s Journal the popu-
larity and influence it now possesses among a
widespread constituency.
A native of Parramatta, N.S.W., Vice-
Admiral Thomas Bridgeman Lethbridge, has been
appointed Commander-in-Chief at the Nore. The
Admiral is GO years of age and has relatives in the
neighbourhood of Penrith.
A certain prominent N.S.W. politician
always declaims in front of a mirror several times
before he delivers an important speech. He hurls
his financial criticism at a man in the glass whom
he mistakes at times for Speaker Young.
According to a Bathurst paper, Judge
Docker has again “put his foot in it” by de-
nouncing the verdict of a certain jury as “one
which, considering the whole of the evidence,
reasonable men could not honestly have come to.”
Mr. Gladstone says he wishes to live for
two great objects. One of them is to settle the
Irish question. The other is to convince his
countrymen of the substantial identity between
the theology of Homer and that of the Old Testa-
ment.
London Citizen says that the Queen,
when she has her photographs taken, insists that
her Royal features shall be attached to a dummy
body, the reason being that she has not been
blessed by nature with a sufficiently Royal
presence.
Mr. Cecil W. Darley, who goes home on
six months’ leave, and on return succeeds Mr.
Moriarty as Engineer-in-Chief of N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Harbours and Rivers, is a younger brother
of the Chief Justice of N.S.W. He entered the
Civil Service in 1867.
Crowds of people have assembled during
the last few days around a gigantic photograph of
Sir John Robertson, exhibited in Swanston-street,
Melbourne. The prevailing criticism was that
the old gentleman would look all the better for an
interview with the barber.
As a story of untutored simplicity it would
be hard to match the anecdote told of a certain
N. S. Wales man who lately started a weekly paper.
Said he : “ I know all about the difficulties of
beginning in the newspaper business. lam quite
prepared to lose money on my first two numbers.”
The Victorian police have raised a hand-
some monument to the late Mr. Madden, M.L.A.,
who, during his political life, endeavoured to ob-
tain for them the parliamentary franchise. Mr.
Madden was a schoolmaster by profession, and in
his earlier days was a particularly clever amateur
pedestrian.
Mr. Wyatt, the recently superannuated
Victorian Police Magistrate, is a most eccentric
character, and occasionally appears on Collins-
street draped like a stockman, mounting the billy-


Exhibition \ isitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Perfumery Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition. All Melbourne
is on th ! s Seen’.
cock and carrying a travelling-rug a la a hors
shoe “ bluey.” He was once County Court judg
for a brief season.
Daring Mr. Tom Bent’s illness, Victoria
Chief-Justice Biginbotham called every mornin
to enquire after his health. / This is heaping coa
of fire with a vengeance. Bent when a cabbag
gardener, many years ago, ousted Mr. Higin
botham from the representation of Brighton
the Victorian Assembly.
It is whispered in well-informed Wash
ington circles that Mrs. Cleveland will presen
the President with a pledge of affection some tin
in October. If so, this will decide the Presidents
election. Mrs. Cleveland’s charms have alread
won many doubtful voters, but a baby in th
White House, and, for the first time in America
history, a President’s baby, would be quite irre
sistible.
Mr. A. H. Lusk, the barrister who wa
assigned by the Crown to defend Mrs. Collins, th
alleged Botany poisoner, recently arrived in Syc
ney from N.Z., where he was well-known as
journalist. In N.S.W., a barrister who, at th
request of the presiding judge, undertakes th
defence of a prisoner on trial for his or her life anc
unable to fee counsel, is awarded a fee of fit
guineas which it is not considered etiquette t
claim.
There is a story current in Breslau tha
“ Our .Fritz,” after attending the examination o
a village school, was presented by a little girl wit
a posy of flowers. “Well, my child,” said he
“to what kingdom do these flowers belong?” “T
the vegetable kingdom.” “And this piece o
gold?” handing her a coin. “To the miner a
kingdom.” “ And I?” he asked. “To the king
dom of Heaven.” A truer answer never came ou
of artless lips.— Pall Mall.
Sir Arthur Nicholson, Bart., who now
drives the handsomest turn-out in Melbourne
was, not so many years ago, a humble constabl
in the Victorian mounted police. Australian
baronets are scarce, and Sir Arthur’s name gave
fine aristocratic flavour to the numerous land
syndicates which have been floated in the Vic
torian capital during the last year or two. It i
only fair to add, however, that his title being
hereditary, he puts on fewer frills than most o
the locally-manufactured aristocrats.
The Hay (N.S.W.) Record has a contriub
tor who, it says, “was evidently one o a gentleman.’
He wears moleskin trousers, but “ sports an eye
glass and has been piously brought up.” The
Bulletin here ventures to remark that it has so
far only met only one personage who, despite
pious education, ventures to wear an eyeglass
viz., G. H. Reid. Speaking broadly, it is imp os
sible for an eyeglassed man to be pious, just as i
is impossible for a curly-haired man or a curly
haired dog to be absolutely reliable.
The following (says a Bombay paper) are
stated to be the amounts of the fortunes of the
12 richest men in the world: —Jay Gould
£55,000,000; J. W. Mackay, £50,000,000; Roths
child, £40,000,000; C. Vanderbilt, £25,000,000
J. P. Jones, £20,000,000; Duke of Westminster
£10,000,000; J. J. Astor, £10,000,000; W.
Stewart, £8,000,000; J. Gordonßennett, £0,000,000
Duke, of Sutherland, £0,000,000 ; Duke o
Northumberland, £5,000,000; Marquis of Bute
£4,000,000. The revenue derived by Jay
Gould represents an income of £3OO per hour.
Dr. Zukertort, who haa just died at a
comparatively early age, was one of the most
wonderful men the chess-world has ever seen.
The present writer remembers seeing him, blind
folded, play 24 picked members of a big London
chess-club and win 20 games, drawing three, and
losing only one. No one but a chess-player can
possibly appreciate this marvellous performance
of keeping fully in memory 24 playing-boards. The
play started at 5 o’clock and finished at half-past
11, and during that time Dr. Zukertort drank six
cups of coffee and smoked perhaps 20 cigars.
Sir Harry Atkinson, Premier of N.Z., is
a grim subject to have any larks with. One night
during a debate in the House he was sitting in
his secretary’s office when the telephone-bell rung.
“Is Blank there?” enquired a far-office voice.
“ No, he’s not here,” answered the Premier.
“ Where is he, can you tell me ? ” enquired the
voice. “ Don’t know,” gruffly from Sir Harry.
“ Pity ttiey didn’t give you tuppence worth of
manners with your billet, whoever you are, ” said
the voice. “ Who are you, anyhow?” asked the
Premier. “ Oh, I’m Mr. ,of the Government
Red-tape and Sealing-wax Department, and who
the devil are you ?” “I’m the Premier of New
Zealand.” The unfortunate Civil servant who
got into this little trouble tried to swallow him-
self and partially succeeded.
Sir George Grey, ex-Governor of N.Z.,
lately came across an old-time compo., Mr.
Everest, who presented him with a series of
curious old Wellington debentures which he
printed in 1845 for a Mr. Roots, a maker of gin-
ger-beer. Small coin being scarce in the early
days, the enterprising Roots hit upon the expe-
dient of issuing notes of the several values of 1“.,
<3d., and 3d. One of them runs as follows :
“Wellington, N.Z., No. 1895 (Sixpence). On
presentation of ten of these notes I promise to pay
the bearer the sum of five shillings in Government
debentures, or the worth in my celebrated antipo-
dean ginger beer, well up, but like Governor
Fitzroy’s head —rather weak. N.B. —Before I
issue any of these notes I have a large supply of
ginger beer well up. W. Roots, Ginger Beer
Manufacturer.” The Governor F i tzroy here
alluded to is not the gentleman who, with the aid
of Hughey Taylor, has made Parramatta his-
torical, but a member of the same ignoble family,
Captain R. Fit-zroy, who ruled N.Z. as Lieut.-
Governor from Dec., 1843, to Nov., 1845.
Melbourne had a well-known character
many years ago, yclept Jimmy Hatton, who fol-
lowed the useful, if not over-cleanly, occupation
of a chimney-sweep. When John Thomas Smith,
the Melbourne Dick Whittington, went home as
ambassador from the Corporation on the occasion
of the wedding of the Princess Royal, he pur-
chased a donkey which he brought back with
him. He was, however, so chaffed about
the “ moke ” that he made Jimmy a present of it.
Jimmy, who was known by ttie sobriquet of
“ Othello ” from his sooty complexion, his wife
(“ Desdemona ”) and the donkey, were well-known
figures in Melbourne a quarter of a century ago.
Hatton had been well-off in London before
emigrating, but our esteemed friend James Hen-
nessy had spoiled his fortune as well as his
beauty. Jimmy was quick at repartee, and one
day with Desdemona and the moke, was outside
Scott’s Hotel, when some sprigs of colonial
nobility, who had just dined, were anxious to
have some fun at the expense of Jimmy’s jolly
nose. “ Never mind my nose, gentlemen,” said
the Moor, ‘ 1 it cost me more money to colour than
ever you possessed.” Jimmy scored one and was
allowed to depart in peace.
POLITCAL
POINTS
John Harris, Mayor of Sydney, has given
£2O to the local Light Hour Demonstration Fund.
Russia is again developing an interest in
Herat. The Bear would like to be thereat. Where-
at the Lion is mad.
One person in every live of the population
of South Australia has a deposit in the Govern-
ment Savings’ Bank.
The politician thinks of the next election,
the statesman of the next century. That is why
Parkes wants a deadhouse.
The R.M.S. Mariposa took away from
N.S.W. over £200,000 worth of gold—to be re-
turned in the form of shoddy.
Out of the 76 U S Senators 20 are million-
aires, mad§ so, as the Chicago Tri bunk puts it,
“ by means more or less equivocal.”
The ultimate object of the Salisbury
Government is evidently to give Parnell and his
leading followers penal servitude for life.
Sir Henry Jamei says that in criminal
cases in Ireland “an ingenuity to secure a coavic-
tion ” is exercised which is unknown in England.
Australia takes a good many lawyers from Ireland,
The Temperance Option Law, after being
in force three years, has been rejected by seven
counties of the Province of Ontario, Canada.
All the big breweries in Sydney are being
formed into companies with limited liability. The
result of Cocky Burns’ threepenny excise-tax ?
So far but two members of thB N.S.W.
Upper House have subscribed to the Eight Hours’
Demonstration Fund—Edmund Barton and—John
Davies.
G. R. Dibbs has been telling the Ballarat
,(Vic.) people that Australia will eventually be a
nation.; but, that it mu3t be composed exclusively
of Anglo-Saxons.
Sydney Echo wonders why no member of
the N.S.W. Foreign-trade Ministry spoke at any
of the Melbourne Exhibition festivities. The
simple fact is they had nothing to boast about ex-
cepting the deficit.
W. O’Shea and J ohn Stevenson -stood :for
Olermont (Q.) at the last election. The latter
won, and has procured for his rival a clerkship in
the Lands Office in Brisbane O’Shea was for
some time a pressman.
The Victorian Licensed Victuallers’ Asso-
ciation have under consideration the advisability
of engaging Mr. Bell, the Canadian anti-Prohibi-
tion orator, to lecture against Local Option for
six months, at a fee of £l2OO.
The Campballtown (N.S.W.) Court-house
will cost £20,000 when completed. Campbell-
town, a one-horse village, is in the electorate of
Mr. Garrett, ex-Minister for Lands, but —ahem l
—it did not support him at last election.
It is cabled : “ The Quakers are sending
a. delegate to Australia on a peace misson.” Has
civil war then come at last ? Will J. Robertson
gird up his loins and ride at the head of a N.S.W.
contingent to the banks of the Murray and pro-
ceed to devastate that abode of traitors, the Gab-
bage Garden ? Otherwise, why this Qiiaker
harbinger of peace to allay fury in the Southern
world ?
There were one Baron, two Baronet 3, 14
Knights, and Honorables innumerable at the ban-
quet tendered to the Exhibition visitors by the
Parliament of Victoria. And we call this a demo-
cratic community. “ Hell is full,” we quote from
Bret Harte “ of such democrats.”
Why does not Premier Parkea appoint a
Minister of Lands ? Simply because Brunker, the
only man he considers eligible, has refused his
advances, and because he dares not tako the risk
of sending to the poll any of the creatures who
servilely follow him in Parliament.
Lady Loch and her two daughters have
been presented by the Executive Commissioners
of the Centennial Exhibition with gold passes set
in brilliants. The price of these costly baubles
will form part of the deficit which Victorian tax-
payers will be called upon one of these days to
discharge.
Protection in Victoria means a surplus for
the year of £837,-115, tea 2d. a pound cheaper,
£50,000 reduction on the total charges, a
£40,000 subsidy to the farmers, the exemption of
coffee, chocolate, and cocoa from duty, kc , &c.
And Ereetrade for N.S.W. means—more work
for Insolvency Court Judge Deffell.
The N.S.W. Chinese Restriction Bill,
which was only conditionally assented to by Go-
vernor Carington, is to bs very carefully con-
sidered by the British Government when a copy
of it is received—-the idea being to see whether it
is compatible with existing Anglo-Chinese treaties.
As it is utterly and hopelessly incompatible, there
is going to be trouble.
The A< (E is evidently getting “full up”
of the present Victorian Government, if we may
judge from the following extract from a recent
leading article: —“Politically the opening is a
good one for a Victorian statesman—if we have
one.” This is rather ungracious, considering that
at least three members of the Victorian Ministry
were manufactured—so to speak—on the Age
premises.
The American of to-day (who celebrates
Washington’s birthday by a dinner at £lO a
ticket)) knows nothing of the spirit of Jefferson.
When he was to bs inaugurated as President he
rode to Congress Hall unattended, hitched his
horse to a post, went inside and took the oath,
and then rode back to his own house. Here is an
example for the inauguration of the Republic of
the United States of Australia.
Governor Carington, in proroguing (pro-
rogue is a good word) the N.S.W. Parliament, the
other day, asked Divine Providence to “bless”
the private avocations of hon. members. Now,
one hon. member that we know helps to lend
money at 160 per shent. : another has a share in
a threepenny whisky-mill.; another is a mining-
shark of the first water —and so on. Public
prayers, whether ,at the closing of Parliament or
the opening of an Exhibition, don’t help the cause
of true religion.
Honest Tom Bent, in replying to the con-
gratulations of the Speaker on his return to the
Victorian Assembly after his recent illness, in-
formed the House with heaving bosom that “Not
only was His [capital H] Excellency good enough
to enquire regarding my 'ealth, but he did me the
honour to send me a letter of condolence written
by himself.” Under honest Tom’s rough exterior
there evidently lies concealed the heart of the—
true loyalist. Loyalist sounds much better than a
certain shorter word.
The meeting held at Melbourne, a few
days ago, to form a local committee to collect
funds for the Lang Memorial, was neither very
enthusiastic nor very numerously attended. Sir
James Macbain occupied the chair, and subscribed
£2O to the memory of his great compatriot, but
the amount of the other donations has not trans-
pired. The Victorian Ministry was not repre-
sented. Sir John Robertson, who got the meet-
ing up, took occasion to remind tho:e present that
but for the precipitancy of the Port Phillipites in
securing separation, Melbourne might have been
the capital of New South Wales. Wha*. would
have become of Sydney in that case, the venerable
gentleman omitted to state.
Speaking on the Lang statue proposal at
St. Leonards, Premier Parkes pathetically re-
marked that the doctor’s chief characteristic was
“ a sweet tenderness of disposition.” For length,
breadth, height, depth, and general massiveness
of construction this is about the most outrageous
chunk of sarcasm we have struck since the pro-
phet Elijah “poked borak ” at the priests of Baal.
Dr. Lang was a cantankerous, sturdy warrior, a
veritable Ishmael of the olden times, and never at
peace except when he was fighting some one.
History is indeed a first-class liar.
The impending strike in the maritime
trade would, if it came to a head, be the greatest
and most disastrous thing of its kind that Aus-
tralia has ever experienced, but the operations of
exchange nowadays are so interwoven that Labour
in any one or in any half-dozen of its branches
cannot expect, let alone hope, to secure anything
like a genuine victory. Capital is so closely
prganised and is so strong in Labour’s own results,
that Capital can, practically, do what it likes—
because it’s portable and Labour is not. When
Labour is so keenly alive to its own interests as to
see what affects one part affects the entire body ;
if when a principle is touched in the farthest and
most remote branch the entire body of workers
suspend their work, then, then, and not till then,
will Labour be on a footing to secure even moderate
terms from its opponent.
According to the N.Y. World, the great
Land Nationalist, Henry George, is to be expelled
from the 23rd Assembly District Association of
the US. Labour Party.. He is charged with
having violated the county constitution of the
party, which declares that no member shall at
any time fuse or “dicker ” with any other politi-
cal party. A committee has been appointed to
examine the Standard for the last five months,
and prove from George’s own writings that he has
fused and “ dickered ’ with the Democrats by
showing that he has advocated the re-nomination
of Cleveland on a Ereetrade platform, and also
that the U.S. Labour party should assist in the
re-election of the President. Henry George has
declared in the Standard that the United Labour
Party exists merely on paper, and it is proposed
to show him that it is something more.
Now that the N.S.W. Freetrade Associa-
tion is struggling into life again, one of its first
cares should be to call Pulsford off his lecturing
tours, or the good cause will “go bung.” No one
has done more to forward the interests of Protec-
tion than Pulsford. At Granville he delivered a
most exhaustive lecture on Ereetrade, and the re-
sult was the immediate formation of one of the
sbrongest Protection Leagues in the colony, nearly
200 members being enrolled. Then he went to
Queensland and fired off two Ereetrade lectures,
and immediately the general election came on,
and hardly one candidate dared declare he was a
Freetrader. After this, Secretary Pulsford sent
a few hundred copies of his “ Freedom in N.S.W.
y. Oppression in Victoria” to N.Z., the result
being that the general election turned Maori-
land into a Protectionist colony at once. Protec-
tion is bound to “ boom ” if Pulsford is allowed to
bless it with his Freetrade benisons.
Says a N.S.W. paper :
“ The proudest State of the Great Republic—Virginia—
was originally a convict establishment, and atrocities
were perpetrated there, compared to which the iniquities
of the early days of Australian settlement were merely
eccentricities. The plantations of the United States wit-
nessed horrors inflicted on transported men, women, and
ohildren transcending in Dantesque weirdness anything
ever inflicted on suffering humanity. But the white-
washed Bulletin moralists can say nothing of these.”
Well, let us say a little now. In Virginia, when
it was a convict-settlement, there were (as in N.S.
Wales when it was a convict-settlement) two
classes—the lords and their white slaves who
worked on the plantations. Later on, the de-
scendants of those old V irginian masters, unable
longer to continue the white-slave system, fought
desperately to maintain the brutal black-slave
system against the free democracy of the North,
which triumphed and trampled on their necks.
N.S.W. is still being ruled to no inconsiderable
extent by the spirit of its old Virginians—in what
respects is set forth fully in The Bulletin's
History of Botany Bay,” to be published shortly
in book-form.
Sir Thomas M‘llwraith’s “special” did
the journey between Brisbane and Melbourne
(1.500 miles) in 48 hour 3. This does not sound very
fast. Forty-eight hours at 30 miles an hour would
be 1440 miles.
An Australian student in Edinburgh—Dr.
A. J. Beehag, B.A. of Sydney University, and
M. 13. of Edinburgh—has (says the Scotsman)
made an important contribution to medical litera-
ture and done, by means of his paper on menthol
in lung-diseases, more than any other, since Koch’s
discoveries, to place the treatment of phthisis on a
rational basis. The properties of menthol which
render it serviceable are(l.) Its volatility,
which makes possible its direct application to
every part of the respiratory tract; (2) its great
antiseptic power even in the gaseous state, by
which the vitality of the tubercle bacillus or
disease germ of consumption is lowered and
even destroyed ; (3) its amesthetic power, by
which pain is alleviated or wholly removed;
and (4) its power of stimulating the blood-vessels,
and of putting them into a fit condition for main-
taining and improving the nutrition of the tissues.
In pulmonary phthisis, Dr. Beehag advises that
20 or 30 minims of a 20 per cent, solution of men-
thol in olive oil be injected into the windpipe by
means of a syringe, devised by himself. This, of
course, must be done by a physician, and is fol-
lowed by no. worse results than some difficulty in
drawing breath for a few seconds. The menthol,
under the influence of the heat of the body, begins
at once to pa’s into vapour and so is borne into
even the most distant and minute of the bron-
chioles and exerts its healing influence on every
part of the lungs. Another bub less efficacious
method of securing the same end is by the use of
the respirator, upon which 15 minims of the oily
solution should be dropped and which should be
worn as much as possible both night and day.
Under this treatment the breathing gets to be
lighter and freer, expectoration becomes less and
less purulent and finally ceases, cough improves,
night sweats diminish, the body gains in weight
and the whole system acquires the vigour and
vitality of perfect health. Dr. Beehag tells of a
patient whose recovery from phthisis was so per-
fect that he was able to pass the examination for
life assurance at the hands of a well-known expert
in lung disease.


On the M


rne “Block.”


Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private'
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
oal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff. For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
Hatak*
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
'Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery ]
Itae quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low
When next you bake try PemelFs Snow-whith Patent
ROX,I,»b Floub, and your bread will be an white an enow
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOE
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
ITEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALING & GO-, Ufl,
356 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
Bollingen
[?]
It is by no means an easy matter so to
arrange the guests at a private dinner-party that
entente cordiale is established between the occu-
pants of adjoining chairs, but this difficulty is in-
creased a thousand-fold at a great public banquet.
This was particularly conspicuous at the Parlia-
mentary dinner held to celebrate the opening of
Melbourne Exhibition. Among the most
strangely-assorted pairs were Minister of Justice
Clarke and Mr. Justice Windeyer; and Sir
Thomas M'llwraith, Premier of Queensland, and
Mr. P. O. Fysh, Premier of Tasmania. Of the
differences between Mr. Clarke and Judge
Windeyer we need not speak here ; but it may be
pointed out that Mr. Fysh and Sir Thomas
MTlwraith represent the two poles of political
feeling in Australia—that is, if we may judge
them both from their own published utterances.
The new Premier of Queensland is the first states-
man holding that rank who has boldly advocated
a purely national Australian policy, while the
head of the Tasmanian Government is an uncom-
promising advocate of Imperialism. Sir Thomas
MTlwraith, if we can take him at his word,
would unfurl the banner of an Australian Repub-
lic ; Mr. Fysh is anxious to curtail even the
measure of independence which the colonies now
enjoy. Readers of “The Innocents Abroad”
will read a fine passage instituting a comparison
between Napoleon the Third and Abdul Aziz ;
the writer of this paragraph was reminded of this
comparison when he saw these two Premiers
seated together.
• • •
The Dowager Duchess of Montrose, who
has, it is cabled, just entered into matrimony with
a mere boy, can’t possibly be so ancient as was
stated (with a reservation) in last week’s Bulle-
tin. According to the paragraph quoted by us,
“Bob” was born in 1799 and married for the first
time in 1836, but, on mature reflection, we admit
that appearances are agin these dates. To all
outward seeming, the Duchess is still on the right
side of 60—a swollen, red-faced lady, who rolls
around the paddock at race-meetings, and can, on
occasion, use strong language in a loud voice. It
is told of the newly-made bride that, when the
Prince of Wales begged her not to scratch one of
her horses for fear of raising a tumult among the
people, she advised his Royal Highness to make a
sultry journey. This was only five years ago, and
the intrepid Duchess was hardly 84 at the time.
But, anyway, she is quite old enough to be
married for the third time, and we trust the
happy man will be a comfort to her declining
years, and dodge any missiles she hurls around
when in the tantrums. Oh! and another good
yarn about her Grace come 3 to mind. After a
race in which one of her horses had performed ig-
nominiously, she said to her jockey (Huxtable),
“ Didn’t I tell you to come along from the start ?”
“ Well, did you want me to come along without
the ’orse?” asked little Huxtable.
* - *
We know him well, Horatio ; a fellow of
anything but infinite jest. He arrived a few
years ago, a raw Scotch lad, in the city of the
Beautiful Harbour, and willingly turned his hand
to the first thing that offered. At a few shillings
a week he groomed a horse, but soon shunted him-
self into a mining broker’s office ; and a few days
ago, still a very young man, he went to Yurrope
on a trip with £BO,OOO cash at his credit.
* * *
We knew him in his prime. We have
seen him shoulder his bat and enter the cricket
arena saluted by the cheers of a big throng at
many a great match. We see him now a wreck,
doubtless blameable, but still not irreclaimable.
Cannot some of those who knew him in his palmy
days, and were once so glad to shake him by the
hand, do something for him now ?
•
Mr. Justice Williams has laid down the
hair-raising law that no private vehicles may
travel on the Melbourne tramway tracks. Un-
less this extraordinary decision is upset, on appeal,,
the time will come when no Melbourne citizen will
be allowed to do anything which doesn’t imme-
diately benefit some bloated monopoly. Vested
interests in the centre of public roadways are un-
heard of outside this free country.
• * *
It was in the mazy dance. She had.
lately been to see Warner act and was very much
impressed. In a pause of the waltz she turned to
her partner, and said with great earnestness r
“ Did you ever see ‘ Drink ? ” A fierce light lit
up his eye. “ Did I ever sec ! Did I ever waller
in it ? Woman, do I look like a temperance-
sharp ? I tell you I have frequently been drunk
three separate individual times in a day.”
• • •
Sir Henry Loch’s contingent of the pro-
cession was not up to time on Exhibition day,,
and, as that august official drove through the
crowd at a smart trot, a vulgar gamin loudly
advised him that he needn’t be in such a blanked
hurry—there’d be a leg of the turkey left.
• « *
Burdett Smith and Co. came gracefully
to the front bn Exhibition day, with or-
chids for the ladies when they arrived at the
N.S.W. Courts. The ladies—who had then been
without food for several hours—bent over the
bloSsoms as though they had half a mind to eat
’em. Which reminds us that the whole inaugura-
tion ceremony dispersed in a state of extreme
hunger, brought on by the absence of refresh-
ments from the festive scene.
# » *
The Argus describes Lady Carington as*
“ the gentlest lady England ever sent to Austra-
lia.” ’Tis a sweeping statement, because England
has sent thousands of ladies to this country..
Moreover, it reflects upon the female ancestry of
our first families.
A certain rather notorious and very plau-
sible mining adventurer from the South has “ put
on toast ” for large amounts a number of
Sydney men who ought to have known much
better. The story of one of his victims, out of
whom he has got say £20,000, will shortly be told in
the Insolvency Court.
• • •
Melbourne is just now infested by
runkards. Drink, drunkard ; rink, runkard.
Twig ?
• » #
After keeping the audience waiting some
time, the Vice-regal party was heartily hooted at
HE NEARLY ALWAYS WON.
WIFE: “WHAT IS NECESSARY TO MAKE A SUCCESSFUL NAP PLAYER, MY
DEAR?”
HUSBAND (thoughtfully); “WELL, A MAN MUST BE COOL, CALCULATING,
CRAFTY, DECEITFUL, SELFISH, SLY, AND HAVE A TOUCH OF MEAN-
NESS IN HIS DISPOSITION.”
WIFE (shocked): “I SHOULDN’T THINK YOU WOULD CARE TO PLAY WITH
SUCH PEOPLE!”
HUSBAND: “OH, I ALMOST ALWAYS WIN!”
the Melbourne Princess’ on a recent special com-
mand night. The Australian people are just
about tired of waiting on Governors and sich.
* * •
William Lynch, of the bellringers of that
ilk, was married in Melbourne one day last week
to Miss Johanna Stoltz, who is the first lady sub-
jected to Lynch law in these colonies.
* * *
Premier Parkes didn’t go to the opening
of Melbourne Exhibition. He had a look in at
Darlinghurst prison instead. After all, when you
come to think of it, ’twas a much more appropriate
way of celebrating the “Centenary.”
* * *
Sydney Carr, Lord Buckinghamshire, who
was in the colonies the other day with something
in the show line, has completely renovated the
family fortunes by marrying a girl with no end of
money.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —You warn people against
drinking liquors out of decanters in hotels in
Melbourne. But I can assure you that there are
dozens of first-class (so-called) houses in Sydney
which supply their trusting customers with
draught liquors out of “ Trade-mark ” bottles,
and charge 6d. per glass for same. So that those
who go to the Exhibition in Melbourne from
Sydney need not be afraid that they will be-
poisoned by the “liquor” sold there. —Yours
truly, Admirer. August 2nd.
* * •
No less than 150 Commissioners have been
gazetted to look after the business of the N.S.W.
Court at the Melbourne Exhibition. Apropos of
which little Zelman, the Italian musical con-
ductor, got off rather a neat bon mot the other
day. Someone at Nicholson’s happened to men-
tion that the Exhibition directors had secured the
band parts of Mozart’s Requiem Mass, and in-
tended to have the great work performed before
the show was over. “ A Requiem Mass at an
Exhibition !” exclaimed one of our “ indefatigable”
Commissioners, “ why the thing would be ab-
surd.” “ Not all,” chipped in little Zelman, “it
vould be un grand compleement to ze dead-
heads from ye ozer colonies.”
* * *
A prominent member of the Sydney Hunt
Club is in the habit of riding after the hounds in
a special safety iron helmet covered with black
velvet. The result of this precaution is that he
comes up smiling after every trouble, much to the
astonishment of those who are not in the secret.
Listen while we warble :
“It is a cause of very legitimate pride
with the men of America,” remarked a writer re-
cently, “ that their countrywomen have proved
that a liberal education and personal judgment
are the best and safest prompters in the choice of
a husband.” “ Pooh, pooh !” exclaimed M. Dumas,
“ a woman marries a man because she likes him,
or doesn’t marry him if she does not ; that’s the
beginning and the end of their analysis. lam
surrounded by women, now mothers and grand-
mothers, whom I knew as girls. I have been able
to observe very closely how much is implied by
marriage. The day that woman is given the same
rights and privileges as man, she will despise him.
Until that time she is dependent on him. What
is more farcical than the institution called mar-
riage ? Women regard it as a liberator. It pre-
fixes ‘ Madame ’ to their names, and takes them
away from papa and mamma, of whom they are
no doubt very fond, but whom they arc delighted
to leave. For some it ensures the gratification of
maternal instincts; nothing else.”
What might be fittingly called a “Romance
of Three Colonies ” ended up ignominiously in
Sydney Central Police Court one day last week.
The first and last chapters eventuate in Sydney,
the others elsewhere, and the lot stitched and
bound in yellow boards with a parson in the front
and a policeman at the back should take well and
be a warning to all. Come to Edwin Walker in
his smithy. Saturday after Saturday he drops his
hammer, carries the cash to Ellen, and dutifully
takes his place by the cradle-side. But one Satur-
day comes, and he is there no more. He has
skipped to Queensland. Times flies, and Edwin
sends a £5-note, and requests Ellen and the cherub
to meet him in the land where rum is cheap,
Ellen sits down fiat, and stays where she is.
Twenty years pass, and from New Zealand comes
a mysterious letter, saying that poor Edwin had
left Queensland, nay, had left earth, and that
Ellen and the cherub would meet him only when
they climbed the golden stair. He was among
the immortals now, and Ellen would have waited
till she got there to knock his halo off, but, to her
surprise, in turning a corner of Pitt-street a few
days ago she met him with the same old
ears she used to bang, and the same
old face she used to sneer at ! Then en-
sued an epoch of polite letter-writing between
the cherub, now a bigger man than his father, and
the still gallant but somewhat flabbergasted
Edwin, and at the heels of the correspondence
came the police court, and the Bench decided that
Edwin was fairly “ in it,” and that for 12 months
to come he must put 20s. a week into the hollow
of Ellen’s hand. , Poor Ellen !
* # *
At the Conference of Australian Judges
held in Melbourne, those Democratic dignitaries,
Higinbotham (C.J.) and Williams (J.), of Vic-
toria, brought up for discussion the question
of legal and judicial costumes suitable for the
Australian climate. Should reform ensue, what
will become of the gorgeous judicial millinery
lately introduced by Chief Justice Darley ?
* * *
They say in Melbourne that Lady Blank
certainly has beautiful lips. What is more to the
point, the redness doesn’t come off on her lady-
ship’s mouchoir. Mouchoir is Erench.
# * •
Yet more victims of escaped gas. The
landlady who turns off the meter at 10.30 sharp
may, after all, be an angel in disguise. Captious
lodgers may, however, denounce her as an angel
of darkness.
• • *
Twenty-eight Chinamen were arrested in
Wellington (N.Z.) last week for playing fan-tan.
Prisoners were bailed out, and when they subse-
quently appeared to answer the charge, the arrest-
ing officers were unable to identify any of them as
the culprits whom they arrested. Eight-and-
twenty actions for illegal arrest are now pending
against the Government.
• • *
Dear Bulletin, —In attributing the dul-
ness in the Sydney tobacconists’ trade to the
skating-mania you are not altogether right. The
true reason is found in the activity of the Social
Purity Society. All the wives of Sydney have
become suspicious, and the dear husband who
smokes is more than ever an object of care to his
jealous spouse. Women imagine that the sparkling,
voluptuous-looking, and scantily-attired effigies of
female loveliness, which serve as trade-marks for
“Old Judge” and his rivals, are but faithful
photographs of the bewitching sirens who officiate
both in the shop and the sanctum sanctorum
behind. The unsuspecting man is tracked through
the day, until the place at which he obtains his
“Richmond Gems” and bird’s-eye is ascertained.
If, insteadof the good-natured physiognomy of Mick
Simmons, a daughter of Eve, with golden hair,
painted, and of good frontal development a la
Becky Sharp, is seen,'then all is over. The green-
eyed monster has entered the home. Now-a-days,
a man who values domestic peace is bound to
eschew his weed. —Yours, El.ev.
* * #
In Sydney it now seems the correct thing
for a clergyman to advertise his lecture on one
side of a handbill distributed at the church-door
after service on Sunday, while a firm of drapers,
members of the clergyman’s congregation, are per-
mitted to announce on the other side of the afore-
said bill their great annual cleariDg-sale. Thus
is the house of prayer used as a medium for the
announcement of alarming sacrifices regardless of
cost. Such people would advertise on the pearly
gates or the jasper sidewalks of the New Jeru-
salem.
• e •
A boarding-house runner got considerably
“left” the other day at Redfern. He fastened
on to an innocent-looking swagman just down
from the back-blocks and taking forcible possession
of an enormous swag, proceeded to lead the way
down George-street to the house he represented.
The swagman meekly and submissively followed
him for about half a-mile, and then taking his
drum from the panting and exhausted runner he
calmly remarked, “Thanks, old man, I’m goin’
down here ” —and vanished, leaving the astounded
runner a prey to feelings too deep for utterance
and utterly unfit for publication except in the .
» * * ■
Rev. J. M. Donaldson, the alleged
bigamist r of Kapunda who set at defiance the
Ecclesiastical Court at Adelaide, acted, as it now
appears, on very good grounds. That tribunal
refused him a necessary adjournment unless he
would guarantee to pay costs. As the charge
against him was a criminal one, the attempt to
extort such a guarantee was monstrously unfair.
If the Court had held that an adjournment was
necessary it would have had something to stand
on, but when it resolved, as it did, to postpone
the trial till August 29, and on the accused man
refusing to sign a undertaking for costs, determined
to deal with the case at once, it showed that it
was dominated by the spirit of the defunct In-
quisition.
* • •
An interesting military item. An officer
belonging to one of the London militia regiments
says that whenever he had occasion to pass between
the front and rear ranks he used always to turn
the latter right-about-face to prevent them picking
his pockets.
ft * *
The Bathurst Sentinel notifies that it has
had enough of wives. “To bring a kid unto the
world now and rear it for a month makes a hole
in a ‘pony,’” it observes, and after specifying
minutely the items of expense incidental to the
ceremony it winds up : “ No more wives for us.
We will go in for a housekeeper.”
# * «
“All the wealth, influence, youth and
beauty of the city were at the Governor’s ball last
night,” says a recent Melbourne Herald. Strike
out the youth and beauty and we cheerfully ac-
knowledge all the rest.
BALLADE OF CLAUDE FROLLO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Behold this shaven pate—these sandalled toes !
I am a saintly Priest to outward show;
In prayer and penance, doubtless, you’d suppose
I rival Bernard or Borromeo.
Meekly I move with modest mien, for oh,
Vowed to celibacy for life am I.
But am I saintly ? Am I sinless? No!
I am a villain of the deepest dye.
Once at confession should a maid disclose
A bosom pure as freshly-fallen snow,
Cheeks like a garden where the scarlet rose
And the white lily intermingled grow,
Hair whose bright locks reflect a golden glow,
Eyes like the azure of a cloudless sky—
’Twas Love, not Shrift, I spake of then ! and so
I am a villain of the deepest dye.
But now my congregated flock repose
Safe from the wiles of their insidious foe :
I reck not of plebeian furbelows,
Or skirts patrician made by Worth and Co.
Only a gipsy lass, wher’er I go,
Attracts the glances of my wanton eye.
I’m —well —in fact —I’m mashed on her, you
know!
I am a villain of the deepest dye.
Envoi.
She’s not in love with me. What matter, though ?
I’ll win my spousal with the Rom’ny-Rye
By base conspiracy or coward blow—
I am a villain of the deepest dye.
HUGH W. INNES.
The knights of old, with reason good,
Their bodies sheathed in steel,
And boldly battle’s shock withstood
All armed in “complete steel.”
Birt sure this guise is “ passing strange ”
To men of modern date,
Who always forth to battle range,
With slightly-covered pate.
What shall we then here say to him
Who does not scruple now
To gaily ride in hunting trim
With iron helm on brow ?
Why just a word to ease our mind
(This little rhyme would else be dull) :
“ The best of guards, sir, you will find,
The thickness of your skull ! ”


llopc for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti-
fical Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132-
paged illustrated hook containing “Essay on Deafness,”
illustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, etc., who have been
cured by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, 65 William Street, Melbourne.
SWEET KOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia. ” Sold everywhere. Price 33. 6d.,
ss. and 10s, Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine.
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOURNE.
[Interesting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
It appears that Sir William Robinson,
before inviting his distinguished friends to the
Adelaide Exhibition, had a private understanding
with Premier Downer that the Government was
to meet all expenses. On these terms Robinson
dispensed £1500-worth of generous hospitality,
which was pretty moderate considering.
A Melbourne journalist takes occasion to
observe that the kiss is a prolific medium for pro-
pagating disease, and that the fair damsel’s fond
salute, of which poets sing so rapturously, may
mean the initiation of a grievous malady. We
have not noticed, however, that the clergy are
more afflicted than their less fortunate fellows.
Warner’s “£afe” Cure.
CURES BRIGHT'S DISEASE, BACKACHE,
GRAVEL, DROPSY, IMPOTENCY,
GENERAL DEBILITY, BLADDER
DISORDERS, FEMALE COMPLAINTS,
INFLAMMATION OF KIDNEYS AND
LIVER, AND ALL OTHER DISEASES
CAUSED BY DERANGED KIDNEYS
AND LIVER.
Read What Those Say Who have Tried It, and he
Convinced of its Merits.
Manly, N. S. W., 3rd April, 1888.—I have used
a number of bottles of “ Warner’s Safe Cure” for
complicated liver and kidney complaint, and have
derived considerable benefit. I hardly think that
I have further need for more medicine, and I can
heartily recommend “ Warner’s Safe Cure” to
others.
Robt. S. Willis,
Pastor of the Church of England, Manly.
No. 10 Baker-street, North Richmond, Victoria,
April 18th, 1888:—For many years I have been
subjected to giddiness in the bead of a severe
nature, aggravated bilious a tacks, palpitation of
the heart, and severe pains in the location of the
kidneys. I was on and off under ihe doctor, but
only slight temporary relief was afforded. I have
now consumed about twelve bottles of the
‘‘Warner’s Safe Cure, ” with some of “Warner’s
Safe Pills,” and have great pleasure in certifying
to my cure.
Mbs. Priscilla Adams.
Penritb, N. S. W. , March 28th, 1888 : —For a
few months I have suffered from stiffness of the
knee joint. I used “ Warner’s Safe Cure, ” and
derived very great benefit from it.
P. J. Mahony.
(The Rev. Dean Mahony).
Little Smith street, Collingwood, Victoria, April
13, 1888 At the beginning of this year, I was
stricken down with liver and kidney disease, so
that I was unable to follow my trade as a painter.
My water was of an offensive smell, and contained
a red sediment in abundance. I procured
“Warner’s Safe Cure,” and when I had taken
two bottles my pains entirely abated, and I passed
a large quantity of gritty matter. I have now
resumed my work, and suffer no pains whatever.
William Rankin.
Brown’s Creek, near Blayney, N. S. W., June
10th, 1888 Two years ago after being attended
by different doctors, I went into the Bathurst
Hospital to go under an operation. The doctois
tapped what they called a tumor on my liver.
After getting a little stronger I left the hospital,
but the tumor began to fill up again faster than
befoie. I wrote the doctors it was filling, and
they told me the only thing they could do was to
have the tumor cut out. Hearing of “ Warner’s
Safe Cure ” I began its use, and have taken seven
bottles, with the happy result that I am entirely
cured. It is now six months since I stopped
taking the medicine, and there is no sign of the
tumor returning.
Mrs. Thomas Malony.
Myers street, Geelcng, Victoria, April, 20th,
1888 About three years ago I got very low in
health, and acting on the advice of my doctor I
repaired to the country. My improvement there
was very slight, and my pains in the back and side
seemed almost permanent There was no pro-
gressive amendment in my condition until I com-
menced the use of “Warner’s Safe Cure,’’and
“ Safe Pills. ” When I bad taken eight bottles
of each, I grew much stronger and gradually
recovered my health.
Charles Camp.
No. 3G Wreckyn street, Hotham, Viet., 18th
January, 1888 About two years ago I was suffer-
ing very severely fren inflammation of the bladder
and kidneys, so I was informed by the doctors —
three of whom I consulted at different times, with-
out obtaining any relief whatever. I began the
use of “Warner’s Safe Cure, ” and after the use
of three bottles I was completely cured, and have
remained so ever since.
Thomas Smith.
[?]
84(5 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 15, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
The N.S.W. Women’s Industrial Exhibition is some'
thing like the “ Castle Adamant" of “ Princess Ida,” for
the animal Man is desired to remain strictly outside—until
it’s open. So far do they carry their desire to keep the
affair absolutely feminine that they don’t intend to allow
even a workman in to fix up the decorations or set out
the pot-plants sent for exhibition, no matter how heavy
they may be. As decorations entail the hammering in of
many dozens of nails, these heroic ladies will probably
leave several fingers and thumbs among the wall-adorn-
ments.
There is to be, among other novelties, a hairdressing
competition at the N.S.W. Women’s Industrial Exhibition.
Each woman, I presume, will bring her glittering locks
to the show in her reticule, and the hair will be hung on
to a nail while the barber currycombs and dandy brushes
it. It would be needless cruelty to make the poor things
sit in a chair all the time, merely for the sake of ap-
pearances.
Although the air is still so nipping and one’s nose still
has a tendency to turn blue when the wild winds blow,
Spring is close upon us— some of the deciduous trees are
already shooting in Sydney Botanic Gardens—and the
inexorable draper has his windows full of Spring millinery
to remind us of that fact. In one shop there is a mouth-
watering hat show. One “ duck of a bonnet ”is composed
solely of pale-pink tea-roses with a fold of flimsy lace
thrown across the crown. A hat in two shades of mastic
has its crown filled in with blush roses, and, in fact, all
the top dressings are largely burdened with artificial
flowers. For which freak of fashion let us be truly
thankful, as floral head-gear is very “ fetching”—every
man admires it—and to the majority of women it is
vastly becoming ! Not that I believe a girl with a boiled-
pork complexion should wear pink roses in her hair.
Kind-hearted “Johnny” Solomon ( nobody over calls
him Mister) cometh again to the van in the cause of good,
fellowship, and in company with Messrs. Brough and
Boucicault, offers the Criterion Theatre to the dis-
banded and “stoney” members of Tessero’s French
Comedy Co. for a benefit matinee performance on 22nd
inst. I hope that a crowded house will result. Lord
and Lady Carington have promised their substantial aid
and patronage, so the “ gate ” ought to furnish enough to
carry the Gallic Thespians back to the land of the Mar-
seillaise.
As Sydneyites have of late been talking about arsenic in
connection with the Botany poisoning mystery, it is'in-
teresting to learn that in Austria it has been revealed
that the heai-mistre3ses of certain girls’ boarding-schools
have caused the drug to be regularly added to the food of
their pupils in order to “ improve their complexion ! ”
and that in Switzerland also there are schools at which
arsenic is habitually mixed with the dishes served at din-
ner. The delicate wax-like appearance of many-girls, and
the suddenness with which they lose their beauty as they
advance into middle-life is attributed to arsenic. That
so many people should of late have done themselves to
death with this drug is only an evidence of the power of
advertising and the contagion of example, for the agonies
caused by arsenic are too horrible to be imagined by any-
one who has not swallowed molten lead—and survived the
experience.
The seventh annual championship race meeting of the
Sydney Bicycle Club, at which several Victorian, South
Australian, and Queensland wheelmen competed, even-
tuated on 11th inst. at the Assoc’ation Ground, and
was attended by a very big crowd. As all cyclists show-
ing up in costume were admitted free, gratis, and for
nothing, the lawn was thickly sprinkled with them —the
two uniforms which appealed to me most strongly being a
get-up of gas-green with which orange kid gloves were
worn; and a pot pourri sort of a “ twilight ” of yellow
breeches, blue hose, and green coat. The majority of the
ladies present looked tolerably charming, and mostly
wore their Spring frocks, though the air was none too
mild. A very pretty “sea-gull” sort of dress was of
electric-gray with looae front of white silk, trimmed with
bands, cuffs, and collars of gray and white design with
which was worn a gray bonnet with short gray strings ( all
the small bonnets, by the way, are worn with strings now)
and several stuffed white birds in the front. So were a bottle-
green plush with collar and vest embrc idered in gold, plush
bonnet en suite with gold aigrette ; a brown cashmere with
smocked vest of old-gold, high brown hat, ornate brown
and old-gold ribbon ; a deep soft lavender, with a beef-
eater hat of drawn net to correspond, with a cluster of
shaded ostrich-tips in the front and lined with ruby
velvet; a tailor-built gown of dark-green made with a
plain front and slit at the sides over tan-cloth ; a vieux-
rose cashmere, with jupe barred with crimson velvet ; a
tailor-built of fawn-cloth, with cuffs and collar of seal-
brown velvet ; and a “ magpie” costume of black silk
ornate with black and white stripes—all these looked
very nice indeed. On the other side of the hedge, how-
ever, several scarlet frocks were decidedly vulgar. An
odd-looking gown was of crushed strawberry merino
made like a dressing-gown, with a very full bodice and
many flowing ribbons, and another public indignity in
seven yards was a black dress covered with red flowers,
and constructed very tight over a huge crinolette and
trimmed with just one flounce round the feet. A large
bonnet, with a big red rose in the front and a masher
limbrella, completed the oddest get-up conceivable, and
f its wearer isn’t a “ distinguished visitor " she could
iraw crowds as a skating-rink comic advertisement.
Here is a military story all the way from Brisbane. One
jf the most experienced commanding officers in one of
the Bananaland regiments had occasion to remind his
subalterns that swords, not sticks, were to be worn On
parade when the men were under arms, but for some time
no attention was paid to the hint. A brigade order was
next issued but still there was no response, and lastly a
“ dress regulation ” was read out on parade to the effect
that “his Excellency desired it to be notified, etc., that
the officers present were to wear swords.” Then what do
you think happened? Both the subalterns reported their
commanding officer for insulting them on parade ! Oh !
topsy-turveydom !
Here is a lovely gown for you, worn recently by the
Empress Dagmar. Of palest primrose, the front of satin
embroidered in white jet, the train (not too long) of
spangled tulle and clusters of crushed roses at the side.
Her neck and shoulders fairly glistened with diamonds
and marvellous gems. A high diamond coronet com-
pleted this toilette. Another get-up worthy the name is
of pure white corsage and train of satin, with front of
lace caught up by bunches of gardenias, rubies, and
diamonds in the hair, and diamond ornaments on the
corsage mingled with long sprays of gardenia. Another
rig-out that brings the gleam of envy into my apprecia-
tive eye is of white pekin with broad stripes of watered
silk and satin; on either side of the skirt panels of white
peau de soie figured with huge bouquets of various
coloured roses. Low corsage trimmed with priceless lace
and superb diamonds scintillating everywhere.
I read that “ those idolators of beauty, the Chinese,
are for ever at the feet of the beings whom they persecute
with their love. When any of their wives are indisposed
they fasten a silken thread around her wrist, the cord of
which is given to the physician, and it is only by the
motion which the pulsation communicates to it that he is
allowed to judge of the state of his patient. This pre-
caution of jealousy is almost unique in its kind.” How
1 wonder, would a Chinaman like to see a doctor with one
MR. CHARLES WARNER.
arm around the waist of a beautiful convalescent (in a
platonically-profesaional way, you know), while with the
other he tenderly fed the beauteous patient with jelly—
as if the nurse couldn’t have “spooned” just as well!
John Chinaman evidently knows a thing or two.
In America, I see, “ the slender young man with
spidery legs and a small waist is quite unfashionable just
now, while the obese person with a crease in his waistcoat
and a double chin is the latest social success over ‘ thar.’ ”
By the way, did anybody ever write a novel with a fat
man for its hero ?
I read that “ some of the people in Rockhampton
‘ enthuse ’ too much. Some ladies, when at the races,
grow excited at a close finish, and take out their false
teeth, lay them on the seat beside them, and yell that their
favourite is the winner, and, happening to be so, rush to
the totalisators for their dividend, forgetting all about
the double row of dental mechanism. And then comes
the wicked reporter, who, anxious to see the smiling
mouth from whose capacity the once pearly beauties
have gone, puts in his journal an advertisement with a
mourning border over it, ‘ Found on Grand Stand, Set
Artificial Teeth. Apply Office.’ ”
Sydney re-unions gave an enjoyable hop at Nithsdale
on 7th inst., when, despite bad weather, a crowd attended.
On the same miserable evening the Elite Skating Rink
carnivaled again, when “ 100 Sydney elite ” took to the
rollers. At first blush I didn't think there were “ 100
elite ” in Sydney, but that just shows my abysmal ignor-
ance, for there they were as large as life, and a great
many more, too. As usual, the proceedings were one
wild whirl of monkeys, mashers, jockeys, Starlights,
Winters, Summers, Chinese, and the Devil, the latter
gentleman being very fine and large, standing on a
pedeßtal with a flaming sword with which he menaced the
skaters occasionally to keep their spirits up. To what a
depth of flippancy must modern society have sunk when
it regards Satan as a mere joke ! The attendance was
very great, numbering nearly 1500.
S.M.H. advertisement: —“Lost a fur cape lined brown
satin ; going to Sunday-school,” &c. Now, I’ll wager she
didn’t lo3e that article going to Sunday-school. No, in-
deed ! that cape was mislaid (it the Sunday-sohool, don t
you think ?
I hear that Mr. John Bennett has just let his home at
Brush Farm for two years, with the idea of taking up his
abode in Sydney.
From a little story just sent me I fear that tHe aristoc-
racy of the far west have not yet learnt their business. A
new girl from Sydney had just arrived on a station. On
the first morning of her appearance to wait at table, the
mistress loudly informed her that she couldn’t allow her
to dress as she then appeared—she would have to wear
caps and on no account carry an improver “because
Bridget,” added she, “if you get yourself up like this,
when gentlemen come to the place they won’t know the
missis from the servant.”
The “ Sydney Private Dramatic and Operatic Society,”
which collapsed a little while ago, has risen Phoenix-like
from its own ashes under the title of the “ Southern
Amateur Theatrical Society.”
Lord Bertie goes “home” next week and is to be
married when he returns to Sydney.
The Mayor of Sydney will hold a reception for the
members of the Australasian Association and their friends
on the 29th inst. By-the-by, everybody is wondering
when a big ball is coming off.
Somebody remarked to our own Mrs. Malaprop recently
on a certain Sydney lady’s fondness for mixing mournful
tints such as green and gray together in her dress : “ Yes,
I have noticed it,” said Mrs. M. ; “She has worn those
colours ever since that athletic notion came out four years
ago.”
Miss Nellie Farren submitted to the awful ordeal of
being photographed whilst in Melbourne.
Now that earrings have gone out of fashion to so great
an extent, ladies are having their old ones—those which
are really good—made up into brooches. A friend showed
me such a brooch the other day made of two shamrock
earring's with ruby centres and it really looked very pretty
indeed. Apropos of brooches, have you ever remarked
the visage of the woman who wears a “ Jubilee” brooch
with “ V.R.” upon it ? If you haven’t, just you look next
time, and if you don’t see snobbery and grovel and God
save the Queen written all over her I’ll eat my hat. A
woman with a “ V.R.” brooch on never hands your ticket
on the tram, and never “ moves up ” when the ’bus stops,
and if you think she wall hand you out your parcel or
close a tram-door on a dusty day remember the old proverb,
“ Blessed is she that expects nothing for she shall not be
disappointed.”
Lord and Lady Carington returned to the Beautiful
Harbour on the morning of the 9th inst., and were re-
ceived at Redfern railway station by a “ guard of honor ”
composed of the blood-stained Permanent Artillery.
The Annual Charity Ball in aid of the Women’s Refuge
at Tempe, takes place on 4th prox. at Sydney Town Hall,
when I hope a large attendance will result to swell the
funds of this unsectarian and most deserving charity.
Apropos of charity—that sweetest of all the virtues—
Rosehill Racecourse proprietary intend to “ substantially
supplement ” Mr. Paling's splendid gift to the people of
N.S.W. by a benefit race-meeting to be held some time in
September. The Baron and his amiable lady have pro-
mised to take an active interest in the affair, and things
are going to be so toney you can’t think.
Somebody semi-interviewed Nellie Farren at Mensfies’
Hotel the other day, and the chief motive of the Gaiety
Company is reported to have expressed her views on the
Australian larrikin as follows : “ Isn’t, he clever ? Doesn’t
he pronounce judgment on you quickly ! I can’t forget
my first night here. There they sat in the gallery with
opera-glasses—actual'y opera-glasses /—and I could feel
them sajing by their actions, ‘ Yes, that’s good enough so
far ; but what else can you do T ” All this is vastly flat-
tering to the wearers of high heels and slouch hats, and if
only Fred. Leslie had been as complimentary about Aus-
tralian ladies all would be well. But Lesl’e, on be’rg
pressed to give an opinion on•“ onf girls,” replied cau-
tiously that they were “very fine and healthy, and all
that sort of thing.” I wonder what G. A. Sala would say
if he heard that “ verdik?” He called us “pasty-faced.”
Health is beauty, and I am afraid Australian girls aren’t
by any means too healthy. Anyhow, they only seem to
be healthy while they remain girls.
Sydney Hunt Club met at the residenc3of their high-
flying Master (Mr. G. C. K. Waldron) at Bur wood, on 11th
inst., for “a day with the dorgs,” as an enthusiastic
Sport once spoke of it to your Sappho, and as the heavens
were somewhat veiled, the sport went all tire better, if
the old proverb about a “cloudy sky” is to be relied
upon.
After their Sydney season, the Gaiety Company sail for
New York, and Nellie Barren wishes that were over, for
she says shb is afraid they won't “understand her work
over there.” Let me re-assure Miss Parren. I think they
will. Though Fred. Leslie says that burlesque is like
Wagner’s music an acquired taste—still most responsible
human beings grasp the true inwardnets of unlimited
tights from the rise of the curtain to the fall thereof.
Admirers of the late Lady Brassey's literary efforts
will hail with rapture the announcement that a new book
of hers edited by Lord Brassey will be published shortly.
And, talking of books, have you seen a brochure entitled
“ A Metrical History of N.S.W. ? ” It is simply sublime,
and one verse which I remfe nbef runs
“ The Freetrade Ass. of New South Wales
Was formed in 'O4,
Ard lives were lost io Northern ports
Where heavy rains did pour.”
Clever, isn’t it ? Though “ Freetrade Ass." is the most
applicable abbreviation that has ever come under the
notice of yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6tb. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7 th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
:. -: "■T'IHk
Mffim
m
*;Vj
fi^
v
V - "' ‘
jMiTfiTnf
BE AI K PATENT NEW lIIQfI ARM SEWiNC MACHINE
r
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely SUS-
PENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
t as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
Bystem of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Prloe Lists Free by Post
BEALE AND COMPANY
IK'J 184, *N|. rjvneov Bmm Sviwit
“Australia’s” Monster Consultations. The
Tramway Handicap, run August 25th, 1888. 4000
Subscribers at 10s. each. Frst Horse, £800;
Second, £250; Third, £l5O ; Starters, £250; Non-
starters £250 (divided amongst them), and 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. The Hawkesbury
Handicap, run September 15th 1888. 2000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First Horse, £400 ; Second,
£200; Third, £100; Starters, £lOO ; Non-starters,
£lOO (divided amongst them), also one of the £5O
Cash Awa -ds of £2 each. Hawkesbury Handi-
cap, 1000 Subscribers at 20s. each. The Melbourne
Cup, run November 6th, 1888. 10,000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “Australia,’ caroof Mr. Hugh Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
Oeore-e Street. Sydney. N.S.W
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7-45 : Carriages 10.45
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS 0 LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Pricks, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
MR. CHARLES WARNER
IN SYDNEY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’r,
MISS VON FINKELSTEINS
Famous
COSTUME and TABLEAU LECTURES,
Y.M.C. A. HALL Every Eviniog,
Except Saturday.
MOST ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION of
the Gifted Native of Jerusalem (the most
successful Lecturer that ever visited the Colonies).
Thursday, At gust 16.
THE JEWS IN PALESTINE.
Friday, August 17.
THE JEWS IN PALESTINE.
ORIENTAL COSTUME ILLUSTRATIONS
To all the Lecture?.
45., 3s , 25., 6J. Tickets at Nicholson’s.
Commence at 8. R. S. SMYTHE.
ABHFIELD RECIIEA TION GRO UN 1 >ri
AND GARDEN PALACE
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be banked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, Ac.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager
jgOTANY ! BOTANY 1 BOTANY 1
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
c
UITEHION
THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon,
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Inauguration of the DRAMATIC SEASON.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY,
GRAND REVIVAL
of
Thelite Sir Charles Young’s World-famous Drama,
JIM THE PENMAN
JIM THE PE VMAN
JIM THE PENMAN.
Entirely New Scrnery by Mr. W. B. Spong.
ADMISSION —55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington’
VOX POPULI
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
OUR BLOND INETTES
OUR BLONDINETTES.
EVERY EVENING.
MINSTRELSY,
OLIO,
and FARCE.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d,
LHAMBEA MUS I C HAL L,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductors hip of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OP SATURDAY.
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
Monuments
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone.
Iron Tomb Railings.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNIN GII ill,
MARGARET STREET WVN'V A It D SQUARE, SYDNEY
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Batlo's Baking Fowlers, Orient Square Bine,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PERSIAN SHERBET,
&0., &o.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
Skill in
Grand crystal palace
SKATING RINK,
Next bo Opera House, York-Sbreet.
THH MOST FAHSIONABLE SINK IN SYDNEY.
Sbill Anobher Grand Success.
Open every Morning, Afbernoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 bo 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIKE.
May be inspected on application bo the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE :
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EX I’ERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application bo the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
~ ~ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE. —The Management reserve the right
bo REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 18, 1888.
GRAND COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT
tendered to
Mr. R J. AGINTON.
GREATEST PROGRAMME ever offered,
including the
2-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP RACE.
'Buses will leave Wyny ward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION. U
Amusements.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director —Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopfobd, Sub Manager.
T> 0 N D I AQUARIUM.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks
SYDNEY TAKEN BY STORM.
Hundreds unable to gain admission nightly to
witness the most UNIQUE AND REFINED
ENTERTAINMENT IN EXISTENCE.
HISCOCK S and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
in conjunction with
HISCOCKS KKDKUAI, MINSTKKI.S
N
EWT 0 N
AND
LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETM AKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHaIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
(ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des’gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
WALNUT FA L L
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous size*, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Diawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partit ons to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish ng Ihe space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of profe-sional and business men.
■
D
RAWING ROOM CABI.
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUEELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
4 Vbbt Oomplbti
Asbobtmbnt,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
TT* ASY CH AIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
I’J rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-Adjusting chair and couch, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
KOCKING EASY CH > IRS, elegant and rest-
• ful—a specially. Newton & Lamb.
~[>EDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring,
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 40 j. ; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
N
WT O N AND
LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
qpRTNn & O’nOWNETT STREETS.


Hotels.
O-ZR-A-iTID J HOTEL,
COENER OP
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
fr
cosckove
HOTt
rr rrr.:T.::^.
HSR
W
J!Ol .
v*;l' R. < Im* m» M
• Mi
iy
_ »
t 4 J
ri+
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter.
D. COSGROVE (Late of L3nnon’s Hotel) ... ... Pkopkietuess.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TJEim BRIG-HTOHiT OS’ IST ELW
AT the GLAKENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Bupperß, Private Dinners, Evening Farcies, eto., art
served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherehi
dinner, you oan enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you oan have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that oan possibly make one
comfortable oan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Plonlo Parties provided. TabU
de H6te at 1 o’olook dally and Sundays, No expense 1s spared by Mrs. Kilkinsteb to make he'
visitors oomfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
Hra. KILMINSTERp Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
Business Announcements
LEA&PERRINS SAUCE
h rmuQ
In consequence of Imitations of TII& WORCESTERSHIRff
SA UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Prrnni
have la request that Purthasert tct that the Label tn every fntiidt
bears their Signature thus^m
without which no bottle of the original WORCII&TERSHLRJB
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauer, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Pottle awl
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse send
Elackutell, London, 6rV., <sr\T. • and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
wisjiaasi* Agpßtti Uiammauk Joaaro 4 Qou Dived oq&xf 4 o/.a^T
TEETH LIKE PEAJttLS,
U'ttw# «nd aoand teeth, perfect freedom from dee*}, * heelthy action of the gvmi, end delight-
CtelCljj fragrant breath can beat be obtains*? by Jiacaniing gritty tooth jpowdsre ®&<* eoiA w®a&*D
09d suing daily
owlancte’
Odonto
iPeari Dentifrice, * white powder composed of the most recherche ingredients ofr the OnentaS
sW-l&al. end warranted free from any gritty or deleterious ingredients ; it whitens and preserves
yje teeth, prevents and arreßts decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the guins, and gives §s
pleasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-scorbutic properties exercise l
'Mghly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes w
can possibly be as efficacious forpolishing the teeth and decay as » rcmro
nom-gritty tooti powder: such KOWXIA-NDS’ iJwfcye fi&sML
Ho other Odonto Is jeat&m
ROWLANDS’ WACASSAI OIL 8® s>®w aoM a® q ijolfi®® mlsrni Ssg
flaw *nd golden-haired people and childness.
ROWLANDS’ KALYOOR
w>j®pl«xlon, eradicates all Cht®a®B^
•ctl tjo-4 frSksfa t&.j wV"*i '>r WWKjJMKWQ
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Ellioti Bbos., and E. Pbosshb A Co , Sjrdn-y
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, S DNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Eveby Bbanoh,
viz.:—
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags ; plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prises, with Olvilltjr and Attention.
Imnii aid Dswwi«4-Bmm
Medical.
TFE PRESERVATION;
BY
Dk. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
JpUZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the Sleepy Nigger,
Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address NORTON WADE, care of A. LUSBY,
0.P.0.. Sydney.
MR. NEIL MACKAY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediately to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Send for interesting pamphlet on West Aus-
tralia; post free. Intercolonial Investment Co.
Ltd., 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
THE
‘PLUM"
Razor.
HO
THE
“PLUM ”
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
<3T Nine Haircutters always Employed ! TEJi
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gaspitters, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medi.eval Metal Workers.
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wh» els.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,COO Fires already in use.
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
llOJf ACCOKD IVOICKS, » Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Slauinore Koad, Petersham.
VP erdrlau €30.»
INDIA RUBBER MANUFACTURES
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
:o:
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist In Nervous Bk eases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cube fob Nb bv OUS DibiMlY AMD
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
'• v . ***3: k
111
■■ .Tr ', ;*:•
fi. z* j , ' ■ » < Jr, •• n> JL
I■ » ■
.. . . ,
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory."
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and ia the beat of
all Fbuit Salines.
EEAITE-&ITO, REFRESHING, INVIGORATING.
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sioknisi.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get It only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proi'ribtcir :
WIN, PARSONS, A.P.S., Oreenwtch, England.
Agbnts :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen's Place, Stdnbi
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
the 28ch day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of about 2 miles 20 chains of fencing of posts and 3 wires,
straining and altering about 19 miles 40 chains of existing fences, and
attaching wire-netting to about 21 miles 60 chains of fencing—between
a point on the boundary-line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales
and South Australia, about 20 chains north of a mile-post marked “66 ”
and a point on the said boundary-line near the 88th-mile post.
Specifications and lorms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill ; Messrs. George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide ; and Messrs. S. Drew & Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing, Section B.“'
HENRY PAREES.
Department of Lands, -
Sydney, 23rd July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on T uesday,
the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to 00. i act for
the erection of two gates, 12 chains post and rail fencing, 7 miiea fencing
of pnsra and 2 wires, altering and repairing about 36 miles of existing
fences, and attaching wire-netting to about 43 miles fencing,—be»w~«n
a point on the boundary line dividing the Colonies of New South Y\ c s
and South Australia, near a mile post marked “ 88 ” and the 131st-imle
post on the said boundary-line.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; Messrs. George Feiguson & Co.,
Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide ; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill; and Messrs. S. Drew & Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed, “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing, Section J. ”
HENRY PAREES.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates, 12 chains post and rail fencing, repairing and
altering about 26 miles 40 chains of existing fences, and attaching wire
netting to about 48 miles 60 chains fencing—between a point on the
boundary-line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South
Australia, about 20 chains north of a mile post marked “ 134” and the
183rd mile-po3t on the said line.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill; Messrs. George Ferguson and Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide ; and Messrs. S. Drew and Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing, Section 5.”
HENRY PAREES,


Business Announcements.
To Tobacconists, Storekeepers, ard
Pairdressers.
Read thia announcement. It largely affects
your Interests.
Craig & Aitken,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 and (582 George-street,
Sydney,
H AVE a Stock replete with almost every
. known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and silver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
Agents for the Celebrated
nun mm d mm,
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
ARMY AMD NAVY
TOBACCO
FOR
SMOKING
AND
CHEWING.
6
&
ESIW!
1
PS
Is still the most Popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG & AITKEN.
FINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s , 145.,
p.p.’s, 7s. ; TWIST.
Gut Tobaccos.
VULCAN MIXTURE (American) finelyflavored,
best value in the market, Rb. packets.
AMERICAN ROUGH-CUT RUBY and LONG
CUT, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
Cigars.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid'Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality !
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’
SUPPLY HOUSE.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders, enclosing P. O.
Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address :
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants
Importers of Hairdressing
Requisites,
680 & 682, GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney,
Sole Agents for the
ARMY AND NAYY TOBACCO
AND CIGARETTES.
Price List on Application.
William’s Australian Insectioide is death to all lnseots.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing cff a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros ,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
E. C. ELEY
m
%
&
<b
$
O'
A
-
<2>
A
<b
*
A
<<;
o
V
<0
<b
&
sr
O
o
NO
v
<$
<y
o
s;
*
<0
A
50
0
£
O’
&
&
*
Y
<b
O
V
<b
*
£
V
*•:
*
o
390 i GEORGE S T
SYDETE3Y,
FOR SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion. —This is ob
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
outaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rouslllon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872.
CAPITAL, £600,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,822.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors' Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE*
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
JO!
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
Tba Bast Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Ageate for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery,
Imported Leathers, &c.: and of the following Special Lines:—PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH,
NUBIAN BLACKING ; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms
Business Announcements.
ROW’S
DandeUon Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twf
or three times a day ; a wineglassfnl for an adaib,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
ing all Impure seoretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bittera, and oonsider them mosb
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recoin-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I oan, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
0. R. UPJOHN, J.P,
Tamworth, August 31, 1888.
Read an expression of thankfulness reoelved b
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
pows
EMBROCATION
16
3
& EVERYWHERE
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves,
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using i.t. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
S~ TUDY HE ALT HBY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS. '
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me,
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANB
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EPW row ikd COMPANY
Long-Lost Relatives.
A Launceston paper says that women are
more earnest than men, and we rise to second the
motion. We observe that the dear creatures
usually go in tooth and nail.
Scientists say that man is 80 per cent, of
water. The Bulletin knows some cold water
advocates who are also 260 per shent.
Signor Perotkin, of Nice Observatory, de-
clares there are men living in the planet Mars,
and that they are a thousand times more skilled
in the matter of canal cutting than even De
Lesseps. This is serious. If the Mars men are
so far ahead of us in canal-making, they are pro-
bably just as far ahead in the way of telescope
manufacturing. It therefore behoves us to keep
our back-yards in good order. What a ghastly
thought it is that the people in Mara may even
now be looking at the hideous filth of certain
streets in Waver ley, Paddington, and other Syd-
ney suburbs !
The Adelaide Lantern writes in a spirit
of ferocity, unusual in so small a paper, about the
wreck of the Star of Greece, and the reasons why
no assistance was forthcoming in the hour of need*
The Semaphore life-boat, it seems, had died out
or rotted out while waiting for a wreck to take
place, and just when the wreck did occur the last
vestige of the craft had got tired of waiting, and
had used itself for firewood. The rocket-service
had perished by a process of slow decay, and when
it was wanted for the first time the last man who
had ever seen a rocket in his life had just been
buried. The rocket-apparatus at Port Willunga
had been removed because it cost nine awful
pounds a year for the rent of a building, and two
dreadful shillings and a heartrending tuppence a
week to pay someone to look after it; and nobody
could remember till the latter end of next week
where it had been removed to. An alleged war
vessel was about, but it didn’t think of moving
because it wasn’t officially called out, and nobody
could lay his hands for the moment on the man
who was authorised to call it out. Under these
circumstances the Government contemplated
passing a short Bill to authorise them to buy
rocket-apparatus in Melbourne and send it along,
but before the Bill was drafted most of the crew
of the stranded vessel had gone to the locker of
D. Jones, Esq. These few circumstances seem to
fully explain the nature of the trouble with regard
to the Star of Greece, and it is satisfactory to know
that a new lifeboat and rocket-apparatus will be
obtained and kept in good order till the people
concerned get tired and give it up just before the
next disaster happens.
Thomas Shinner left Dublin for Adelaide, in
the Lady Jocelyn, in 1867, and has not been heard
of since, A lady is anxious to find his where-
abouts, as his mother is in delicate health.
William Porter, of Nottingham, left home for
Sydney October 1, 1884. The last time he was
heard of was September 1, 1886 ; he always had
his letters addressed to the G.P.0., Sydney. He
is anxiously sought for by his mother and sister.
Stonemason by trade, age 29.
John Brewis sailed in the John Elder for Ade-
laide, eight years ago, since when he has not been
heard of. Information would gladly be received
by his mother.
George and Ellen Cottrell were last heard
of 18 months ago, when they were residing in
Upper Queen-street, Auckland. Their mother is
anxious about them.
Frederick Holmes is sought by his parents,
who last heard of him from Sydney in 1874, when
he was shipping aboard the Niagara for Hong
Kong.
J oseph Maslen Went to Australia in 1869, and
is now inquired for by his mother, who last heard
of him at Charters Towers, Queensland, two years
ago.
JoitN Robert Stratford sailed in the Tamana
for Dunedin in 1867, and was last heard of there,
going up country to the gold diggings. His
mother desires information concerning him.
About five years ago, when “ Taken from
Life’’was first staged in Melbourne, old Jimmy
Carden (“Dismal Jimmy” as he was known in
profession) was cast to play Maguire the Socialist,
who blows down the prison wall with an infernal-
machine. Jimmy was in his element in the part,
which he made as heavy as possible, and every-
thing went well with him until one night, when
he “put himself clean away.” As soon as the
machine is fixed to the wall Maguire has to say—
“ In sixty seconds the wall will be blown down !”
On this memorable night, however, Jimmy got
mixed, and when he fixed the machine he blurted
out in choice Milesian, “In sixty min-yutes the
wa-ul trill be blown down!'’ Jimmy was called
before the curtain immediately afterwards ; and
when he went to America three years ago the
remembrance of the reception he got from the
audience was then, he said, very fresh in his
memory.


ISusiiiess Announcements.
JM PORTANT NEWS.
“ A remarkable find of gold-bearing quartz has
been made at Yilgarn (W.A.) A large area is
covered on the surface with stone containing gold.
Specimens brought into Perth are of a marvel-
lously rich character, one of which, when broken
revealed gold in great quantities.”—S.M. Herald
Juiy 25th, 1888.) “ Arrangements have been
completed for the construction of the West Aus-
tralian Midland Railway.”—(S.M. Herald,
July 17, 1888.)
Telegrams are appearing daily in the Press re
cording rich gold discoveries in Western Aus-
Now is the time to make a profitable purchase
of land in Perth, the capital of Western Aus-
tralia. It is offered for a mere song, but shortly
will not be obtainable except at much higher
prices, for Western Australia is certainly booked
for a prosperous era, and Perth property will
increase with rapidity even as property has done
in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, &c.
EVELEIGH ESTATE, PERTH,
Elevated, good building land ; well-situated, and
only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting Go-
vernment road. Ten Pounds each lot. Terms —
£1 deposit; balance, 10s. monthly. No Interest.
Free deeds absolutely to purchasers of five lots.
Title, Torrens. Pamphlet containing valuable in-
formation and marked plan of the Estate for-
warded to any address on application to THE
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT COM-
PANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg 60 notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & GO., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are bow offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CimETTES, also FIHEST BUNDS of CIURS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
IV Noth this Fbigi 1
We Bell a very good Egyptian Cigarette— the
" BESOSTRIS ” Brand —In Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
IV By buying from ub you will save at leaßt
16 per oent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 mmi STREET, S7DKET
(opposite Savings Bank).
10 RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &o.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight in
fold. Send your full address, and we will send Post
'ree One Copy, given away for the next Six Months
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,
Redfern, Sydney.
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS!
The concealed cameras are designed for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
a
LICHTHER <Sz CO.,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE.
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Aot of Parliament, 87 Vie.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital 61,000,000
Paid-up and Subscribed ... ... 682,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per cent.
For 6 months 1 per oent.
For 1 year _ 6 per oent.
For 3 months.. 8 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate Beal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
bolder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, Including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hbad Office— lo, &12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
A USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
A SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
J. P. ABBOTT, EsqTSp., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer :
JAS. C. COX, M.D,
Actuary ;
MORRICE A. BLACK, F/I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated iunds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BUCKHAIMI,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Tents, Tarpaulins, Wool, Dray and .Waggon
Covers (Greased or Oiled), Canvas Water Bottles,
Coolers, Whin Buckets all sizes, at lowest prices.
Note the Address.
Oldest established house in the trade.
JOHN BUCKHAM,
285 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
TATTERSALL’S
KOHSTEE CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Rventa
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
<‘ Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," oare
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per-
sona making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GBD. GBD. GBD.
EHIB FAMOUS AND PAVOURITB BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintain! lti Prestige and itandi pre-eminent amon
the boiti of other brands as
188 BIST QUALITY BRIAR PIPB OFFERED SO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforoe
all persons imitating the brand.
the Law againil
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
Ml OLARENOB-BTREBT.
We have Large Shipments of
PIPES to hand ana Regular
WHOLESALE ONLY.
this BRAND OP BRIAB
Shipments ooming forward
BRUITO N»S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... ... 34 Pm Stems,
BRISBANE... ... ...Edward Strut.
MELBOURNE Sffnoeb Stbbbt.
“ Mrs. Gordon Baillie and her husband,
Percival Frost, have been committed for trial,
without bail, on charges of fraud.” — Cable.
Three members of the Kapunda (S.A.) j
militia have been drummed out for neglecting to i
join the ranks on the occasion of the recent war-
alarm.
At Geelong (Y.) Licensing Court the other
day a rosy-cheeked, bright-eyed beauty kissed the
book (happy book !} and deposed that hef name
was “Miss Lockwood.” “Ah, ’um,” said Judge
Quinlan, as he surveyed the bundle of charms
before him ; “and may I ask, Miss Lockwood, are
you a married or a single woman ?”
The celebration of Voltaire’s birthday in
France reminds us of a pathetic statement of his
which is too little known. The old man said at
Ferney, not long before his death : “There will
be no peace in this world, my friends, till the last
king is strangled with the entrails of the last
priest 1” Then there will never be peace.
During his oration at the opening of the
Protestant Hall, at Dubbo (N.S.W.), the other
day, Mr. Ball, barber and M.P., hammered quite
a new plank into the platform of Protection.
After hazarding the remark that no doubt some of
the ladies before him were married and had
families (most of them looked old enough to be the
mothers of the Chinese Empire), the brilliant barber
warned them to “be careful that their daughters
were linked with Protestants, and particularly
with Orangemen; because, by so doing, they
would increase Protestantism, and materially
benefit their beautiful town.” This was counting
the yellow-breasted chickens before they were
hatched with a vengeance, but the liberal senti-
ments of the tonsorial artist were loudly ap-
plauded, and he was reckoned the hero of the
hour, until Brother Henson, M. P., bobbed
serenely up and, with charming simplicity, truth-
fully observed, “My presence here this night re-
minds me of an old woman during the time of the
Crimean War.” That was too much for even the
stern and stolid chairman to stand, and he had to
duck down and smother his sniggering behind
the water bottle, while the rest of the audience
fairly howled with laughter at the aptness of Hen-
son’s comparison;
Melbourne Herali) filled up the cable
vacuum, one day last week, with a thrilling
description of a “ ’orful railway haccident,” which
nearly happened on a new suburban line. In con-
sequence of somebody not doing something it
came to pass that one train was steaming along
behind another train which was going along
slowly. From the Herald point of view “it was
an awful moment and lives must inevitably be
lost. The semaphore arm was lowered, and if
it were thrown up instantly it would cause the
driver of the Fitzroy (the leading) train
to come to a standstill. However, judgment
was used.” Think of that, now 1 The signal-
man artfully let the FitZroy train pass the
semaphore “and then quick as death it was
placed at danger.” Thus was the inevitable
averted. The driver of the pursuing train applied
the brake and “saved many lives of people (the
Herald doesn’t mention how many lives apiece
they had) who little knew the imminent danger
they were placed in.” They know now. It was
indeed a frightful position that those unhappy
travellers were placed in. If the signalman fad
suffered from an apoplectic stroke at the critical
moment he could not have hoisted the danger
arm, and if his aunt had been his uncle, the pos-
sible result is too dreadful to dwell upon. Let us
pray for the souls that were so nearly lost.
A young man bearing the simple name of
John Clarke has incurred a good deal of public
displeasure at Wellington (N.Z.) because he
obeyed the Scriptural maxim which bids a son
respect and honour his parents in the days of his
youth that he may hang out for a long period on
the surface of the globe. Some few weeks ago
John’s male progenitor became filled with a con-
viction that he had sojourned his allotted span in
this sphere, and resolved to cut his earthly stick
and fly; and, having bidden his family an affec-
tionate farewell, he hung himself without ostenta-
tion in the cow-shed. John was not present at
the opening ceremony, but he arrived shortly
afterwards, and found the suspended old man
still clawing the air and feebly kicking up his last
dust. He did not cut his sire down—he knew the
old individual’s temper too well to interfere with
any important scheme he had in hand—but he
stood by at a respectful distance and took notes,
while his small brother ran for the police, who, of
course, did not arrive till the venerable suicide
had departed for a land where there are no corns
or taxes and which passeth not away. And it is
on this account that the Press and the public are
heaving strong language at John Clarke. For
years his father had impressed upon him with
emphasis and judicious caning that he wasn’t to
interfere in matters which concerned his elders,
and because he remembered these instructions in
the hour of need he is denounced as a public dis-
grace and a lower animal. His lot is a hard one,
and nobody except The Bulletin seems to have
any sympathy for him.
A fact, that has been well known to all be-
hind the scenes, in the tragedy on which the cur-
tain has just fallen in Germany, is that when the
complaint in the throat of the Crown Prince first
gave cause for uneasiness to himself and friends, a
leading medical man at once suggested that the
famous Alfred Fournier, of Paris, should be called
in. “Unser Fritz” —who was above all a
man of common sense—readily listened to
this proposal, and only two difficulties re-
mained to be surmounted. The first, of course,
was how to have the meeting brought about
I without too much noise ; and the second was
! how to overcome or conciliate the ill-feeling which
j the calling in of a French surgeon would be sure
to arouse in the too susceptible breasts of the
learned German professors. The firsb difficulty
was got over ; for as soon as Fournier heard that
his advice might be needed, he volunteered to
meet the Crown Prince anywhere he liked, both
to be incognito , to examine the throat of the
illustrious patient, and to return with equal dis-
cretion to Paris. The second difficulty was found
on further discussion to be insurmountable, for
a very leading and eminent English doctor
pointed out to his Imperial-Highness that
one visit from Fournier would be of but
little practical benefit, and the continuance
or even temporary attendance of Fournier on the
Prince might in the first instance give rise to
scandal, in the second would surely result in
political trouble, and in the third would be prac-
tically impossible; for Paris without Fournier
would be something like Hades without Pluto.
The plan, therefore, fell through, although it was
actively discussed at Norwood during the stay of
the Grown Prince there last year, and although
Sir Morell Mackenzie —with that gracious forget-
fulness of all petty professional pride which, no
less than his skill, has made him what he is—
offered no objection.— lndependanCe Beloe.
"MRS. GORDON BAILLIE."
A GENTLE REMONSTRANCE.
Here’s a scandalous fuss ! here’s a hue and a cry !
In the chase of a poor fluttering frail butterfly ;
Here’s a grinding and gnashing of molars in rage
Sure we live in a carping, censorious age !
But go slow, friendly critics; I’m bound to protest
That it’s time to be giving a woman a rest,
For all that your rumpus and riot’s about
Is the sin I’ve committed of being found out.
And I marvel your censures so savage should be
On a beautiful cadger of noble degree.
It is true that I’ve begged and I’ve borrowed
whene’er
I discovered a Juggins with shekels to spare;
That my “sweet pensive face” and “my deep
earnest eyes ”
Were the baits to which wealthy old gudgeons
would rise;
But why should your moral in my cs.se be sought,
When you've lords and M.P.’s in the Bankruptcy
Court?
As to punishment—pooh ! Keep this fact in your
head
That our gaols are for beggars who b?g for mere
Not for gentlemen born who go “broke o the
spree,” ~ i
Nor a sweet lady cadger of noble degree.
But begging ?—what nonsense !—subscription’s the
word ; ...
And to question the object were quite too absurd,
When a lady drives up to your door in her chaise,
And the graceful young darling your sympathy
prays
For African blacks, Jewish perverts at home,
Scotch crofters, or Protestant converts in Rome,
When you know—or you think—she’s got wealth
of her own,
Then you sign a fat cheque for your sins to atone,
While you pleasantly mention how grateful
you be
To the dashing young cadger of noble degree.
Yes, I’d rattle the box in my sweet winsome way,
And merchants and brokers—e’en lawyers would
pay,
Tn the free-handed style of each sinner who tries
To purchase a mansion of bliss in the skies.
How simple it seemed, by vicarious aid,
To wipe out the record of lies told in trade ;
Of smart overreaching,! by sharp versus flat,
By pitching a cheque into Charity’s hat;
And Charity’s cloak fitted warmly round me,
The rakish young cadger of noble degree.
Perhaps, as you say, people failed to get news
From the crofters, the Romans, the niggers, and
Jews,
Of the poor I had succoured, the sick brought to
health —
It was clearly my practice to do good by stealth !
Yet my maxim was simple, by all understood,
“For the greatest of numbers the greatest of
good. ’
And the inference plain, controverted by none,
Is the greatest of numbers is great Number One !
Yes, that was the figure most precious to me,
To the beautiful cadger of noble degree !
But turn on your limelight; I prithee look round,
And say if alone of my tribe I am found
Some queer little dodges I think you’d recall,
If you’d worked the May meeting at Exeter Hall?
Is there never a mission that comes to your mind,
Whose officers sleek in a palace you’ll find ?
When they sift through a ladder the gifts of the
good,
And the Blacks get the pieces that stick to the
wool ?
Where Pecksniff presides as the secreta-ree,
O’er an army of cadgers of noble degree ?
If the devil were casting his net, have you thought
What crowds of big fish up in town would be
caught
Where they pray and they preach, and they pass
round the hat
For promotion of this and prevention of that ?
If the meshes were tightened, each fraud to
contain,
Would the Salvation Army slip through them
like rain ?
Ah ! beggars imprisoned for vagrancy’s crime
Must grin as they think, while they’re “doing
their time,”
Of the Coin that was cadged for the Queen s
Jubilee
By fine lady cadgers of noble degree.
So sharpen your blades, noble knights of the Press
And slash at your quarry, sans mercy or cess,
In brief, spicy sections my story relate—
How I plundered the pious and nobbled the great,
How I moved in Society’s innermost “set,”
How I bilked all my tradesmen, and paid ne’er a
debt.
But if that is your heaviest charge to be brought,
With bankers and baronets still I’ll consort;
And remember, I pray, when you’re slating
poor me,
Other feminine cadgers of noble degree.
—Edinburgh Evening Dispatch.


, 5 ,£rt;S /
Ce ?X**-y/00/ artf %
' J S
<v ' e ° 5 /V'j*
y// /'
Sf y* r/ktUha'f fy' r
v iuf-L y /tcL \
f „of> V?
A v V'
rio/t, L
is tiip'ci
• 2tyZ>!
•c
l!
fa}) fet/qfy - 7^ '* if
Jf
fa
%
(i
r //
if
‘i^rf
f 1V >
i
V r
" J&J'
— A ocf .
<TC £_ a~^7^^)
I
s c[ \ 1t r
/ 1
/ V „,*>/
0i r»’ a -*/" li4 l
lh tC X t rf r (£'
W b l'.V-'/ r ¥ L
> Ki' Wm
1
Carnival Night at Sydney “Elite” Skating Rink.


Hotels.
Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
l * t| P**lUment Houses, Botanical fiuflsu,
*®d Queensland Club.
•WST-OLASS FAMILY HOTEL,
ACCOMMODATION for ninety.
fcttitl
A Walter meets every Steamer,
*»d Telegrams please address proprietor,
8. M. COLLINS.
**|®WL HOTEL, fiDULIUM.N.S.W.
Jj r®£d*ABB accommodation for commercial
ItBiBU -- Mnen * n d others. Private sitting rooms,
rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Proprietor.
_ HOTEL, QUEENSLAND,
a! 18 patronage of His Ex-
A. **UBgrave, K.C.M.G. Acoommo-
Two-storey buildings. From
IM * splendid view ean be obtained of
OUaatea' * m <Hintaln of gold, and within a few
•U tn.fi , *°* the company’s works. Passenger
A>hja ..i? 0^00 dally from Rockhampton and
*l«or W. MONCKTON, Pro-
w < w the firm of Monokton and Co.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Mtland National Hotol,
SO BEDROOMS.
tiaai
t^l 661 haß boen beautifully done up, and
■Hr* r»w«j!_^® & dy for the reception of visitors.
**l». Tw" 6, Cellar stocked with best brands
moderate. Mrs. Hbiseb, Proprietress.
Medical.
~ . SPEER’S
eJ OAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
W i“ G,eo, 8 e and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Di.
A Graduated Physician, eduoated at
j G^e * ,s * (* or confirmation see New Zealand
. aQ uary 21st, 1886; also New South Walei
|*&B ti J™ 17th . 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
fcSUI, Spnjffe, Of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
01 Wtals of thfrir Four oI these were in the leading
ignited States, which enables him to treat
excellent results. All applying to
vj*peri lnpnf . e his honest opinion of their complair
iBn 8lt * Ve cur o ’ no Mercury used. He ill guaran
0> aisr°r * eveTy ,
ffiWo disto O aBon for doing
&S,\ and uothin f
nts.
guarantee
case he under t kes, or forfeit
so is this—whe rethere is no
a ce»+ e .*‘ WordCr* o " llu nothing but an inorgaiio trouble, or,
*»i (emit a of symptoms producing
lie 3>ith tv,„ Jhere is no reason why it cannot be re
to i* J? ro P er remedies, therefore he guarantees
he rt*?hn iam^ n - < l understood that he does not olaim
orilf, 0 ? 81 , ities > or to have miraculous power
be a skilled and successful physician
in his speciality—CHßONlC AND
OP MEN and WOMEN. People
can, by explaining their troubles In
at home. The course of treatment wfM
advint . rfere wit h their business. Examine
?tW^'t*.,49vr* reB to nil- Charges moderate. H. J
}t a !?■ 8yd tlPv Ma tSaret Street, between George and York
In »?«• to i 2 ov. .%P 8 t Office Box, No. 920. Offloe hours
41 a hi. 0 ’ 2 to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
-St,
ARDS.
«i N °* lar 8° Bound BOOK on SKLF CURB
Bd, , y° UB Diseases j price, lnoluding post'
Us
stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
bl « or not. Address
spring
iohards,
STREET, SYDNEY.
Announcements.
& 00.,
x Ttenberg
If 81 SORTERS,
??. 0E Stbeet, Wynyabd Squabb.
‘ lrr °*B. Oleographs and Moulding s.
CHAN'S
OILS
Abrogation,
FOB
,U:
turn & Does.
It *
*iair Grow over Oldest Scars.
Sil jVer
MEDAL, SYDNEY, 1888,
as a Dressill g for fresh
V s ’ 4 SOBE backs, girth
llwK & r °Ken knees, greasy
( o t SS* Ma and Q UARTER CRACK,
\ 5 and as an Embrocation
CUR BS, STIFF JOINTS
-—*
■“ 3s.l6d.Jper BOTTUB.J ,
h SotE Agent:
rfield , M.P.S.,
°Hge street west,]'
and
S J street, redfern.
* it! w -2
ta Storekeepers.'
L \
Business Announcements
T
w
tUM9*ACIVU*\
>m»»»TEW er
HATS CAPS&c
4JB CEORCE t T
|gVT)NEY
STUDY ECOKOIBV
. •“ «
BaT*t<JurT7rabreHa Pram** fp
corered, and your
Parasols re-lined and mode 4
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN^
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Jjirerpool and Bathurst Streets.
Parasols made to match COS'
tames Repairs neatly executed
K'ngs V'ews
Of SYDNEY,
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c., &c.,
316 GEORGE ST., between Hunter-st. and G.P.O,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYONEV
'HPORTERS OfAIL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And »l QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
uur mi omnia mum.
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUND.
MOonghi, Cold*,
an at th* cheat wi
tally.
IT HAI I MCI ILIABANT TABTE.
Bi Me mew V h jnutilliwil?.. M children art foal dff
‘-manmas*
a ec. dafc* of NeatbX
U, r»HT Imwoir, England,
rvlw la Iftt* «C 11* par boOUa.
0 a Mai M CMC VBW CteaM *ill prtturt itf
y\
THE ORIGINAL
Bak/nc P 0
0
WAUGHS
°e*
OBTAINEDvA^I
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
\
ISTHEB EST INIHEiW.ORLDI!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUG H’S
rtECEiVEDTHE INTERNATIONAL
PRIZEMEDAL
M a fluf a ctureOTy Jam e s jCHANVotiI
u ftUSttXO WJ
CriTcreionOtoj^eftstt
Business Announcements.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
VP
PATENT
w
LLS
PI
P 5
£
&
&
Wi
Vt
Are universally ad-
mitted to be worth
a Guinea a Box for
Bilious and Nervous
Disorders such as
W ind and Pain in the
Stomach, Sick Head-
ache, Giddiness, Ful-
ness and Swelling
after Meals, Dizzi-
ness and Drowsiness,
i old Chills, Flushings
of Heat, Loss of Ap-
petite, Shortness of
Breath, Costiveness,
Scurvy and Blotches
on the Skin, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Fright-
ful Dreams, and all
Nervous and Tremb-
ling Sensations, &c. The first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. *
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one
box of these Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humours* and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no Medicine to be found
equal to Beecham’s Pills for removing any obstruc-
tion or irregularity of the system. If taken accor-
ding to the directions given with each box, they
will soon restore females of all ages to sound and
robust health. This has been proved, by thousands
who have tried them, and found the benefits which
are ensured by their use.
For a Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion, and all
Disorders of the Liver, they act like magic, and a
few doses will be found to work wonders on the most
important organs in the human machine. They
strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the
long lost complexion,' bring back the keen edge of
appetite,, and arouse into action with the rosebud
ot health the whole physical energy of the human
frame. These are Facts testified continually, by
members of all classes of society, and one of the
best guarantees to the Nervous and Debilitated is,
BEECHAM’S PILLS have the Largest Sale of any
Patent Medicine in the World.
Beeeham’s Magie Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Bronchial Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of
Breath, Tightness and Oppression of the Chest,
Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand unrivalled. They
are the best ever offered to the public and will
speedily remove that sense of oppression and diffi-
culty of breathing, which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BEECHAM’S
COUGH PILLS a trial, and the most violent Cough
will in a short ume be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by
the Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England, in boxes Is. and 2s. 9d. each.
Sold by all Druegists and Patent Medicine
Dealers everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branchesi
BA PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserve Fund ... 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, nan offer special faoilltieß for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t.
Drafts issued and Bills oc’looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN Acting Manager.
OIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASE,S
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Mob® MERCURY ob other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., CH. M., &C.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”
53, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
wjDr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affeo-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so: if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, bo satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your oase.
’ CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that I do not olaim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I olaim only to be a skilled and euooessful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address-
F&OSEESSITE VESICAL lISTITUTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
MT No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 253, G.P.O.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher* Bulletin
JfHce.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Commercial Chambers. Bond-Street, Sydney,
Robert butcher & oo
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine anfl
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' Ot
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
XTTTE can recommend the Ihpbrial Haim
▼ T Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D R RI DOE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
w
MA. BRONCHITIS. COUGHS
A!
AND ALL CHEST AffIECTiONS
$3l
E FAKtU
M'AS
I C
fi. STEPHENSON
HAS ON BALK-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STRESS,
Between King and Market Streets.
» n » «»»«» Moastiche tad Wkl»k»r»„ utrom wt«
O^Pyriuhted.
Boyd"* Beard Elixir did this,
\and udU do it on either bald
'head or bare face • Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never fails,2o,ooo'
_ _ _ young men aLrtady wear full
beards, having used Ito 3 pkte . No injury, easily applied „ certain
in effect. Packets, 1«. &J. taofc, 3/or 3a. Bd., »oae pafcS a wuioc’
eover, free from observation o AMresa 9 FipamK Sole Agent,
Boy **o f a F.0.. f gyriWft M.B. W a
m
<&9vr*(!***• B
• V
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin MakW
SBB PITT STREET.
Marqaeea'onlHtre
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all other* for.it* lotting and natmral
fragrance.
Tbrbb Goon Modai*—
PAMS,IB7B; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
ESSENCE OF WHITE HOSE
FEANGIPANNE I YIANG TJJLNG
BTEPHANOTIB I OPAPANAIt
and other well-known Perfume* are un-
equalled lor their delightful and lotting odour
Atkinton'i celebrated
EATT DE OQLO&NE.
Unsurpassed for it* itrength and delightful
fragrance. It i* for superior to the numeroui
compound* sold under the same name.
Of all I) taler t, and of tfu Manufacturer)—
J. * B. ATKINSON,
34, Old Boko SraxxT, Lowoox.
Trade Mark—“ White Bote” on“ Golden
Lyre."


ROYALMCWIJ
6
POWDER
ib»o<ute!v Pur#.
For quick baking. Raises bread, blscolta, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
bheßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hob, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains Its full
Btrength In any climate, any length of time. En
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New Sooth Wales.
Georgs and Qipps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 yean old); W. Jameson’s, Dunyille’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Maxell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (In wood), imported and bottled by P.R.B.
4W The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. dW All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 A 780 George-straet.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 Qeorge Street, Sydney.
«T SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
miss ssiies' mssmi miss »i uweit,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdhbn & Sons).
PfOdllGO StOrBS GIPPS STREET and DARLINt GUURST ROAD.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
IST HI W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYEYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Molboarno, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
TMNI, VWI, F**
SSE-CLUIPHOTMU®
■ rttflM
wot Artlstle Posing and f 6M
combining softness and brtinaw
Photographs of -g
SNARLEMONT
STAND PRg-HMINBNTLT^^^
COLE MANE & SOM
Eucalyptb C IIj
Victory OINTMB^
\ Pure Extract from the *»
Awarded GOLD MEDAL „ , jgjf.
beating all other cc S^ lb itrtoO< Sr
Great Centennial E, „**■
Ist Prize
Can be used for Oonsumpti n. beg.
ohltls, Rheumatism. Neuralgia, 'BfafaDP*
and Gravel Complaints, Spra'?^’
Gout, etc. Posted to any add •
•Manufactory:
Sydney Depot: 17 Cook
Sold by_aU_Chen^U^
DR
L.R.C.P:, Kdln.,’li.B.O.S.
registered In Great Britain, an laai# ‘‘jLt*! l *
late surgeon to H.R.H. Prj n 9® yrenoh
Resident Medical Officer to the fjl»
London, specialist for the trea p
and Heart Diseases, &o. nnrg nn»iif, f bt, •*
Consultation by letter or
iQroa ati Rriaiir HOUSB. NO» >
charge, at Rdgar H ouse
Hunter-street Sydney
A Blessing toe
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
There Is not
the healing virtues
—ar
PILLS
I a oountry
oognlsed. Fullest aireonu-n- YB* VJ W«*
every disease IP YOU SUPPBfc *
faotured only at 78 Nsw Orro*®** mi 36* ptf
should look to the Lebei oa
■ddress Is not M 8 Oxford"***
chasers
11 the address
WILLIAM BULLARD, 348 Q-EORQE STB
BOOKS STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans. Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanase Curios-
’ ’ ball programmes.
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
INSPECT THE SWEET !
HAPSBURG PIANOS
AT THE ,
W ertlieim
SEWING MACHINE DEPOTS
IN
V I C T O R I A..
MELBOURNE
Richmond
Windsor
BALLARAT
SANDHURST
GEELONG
STAWELL
ECHUCA ...
BEECHWORTH
HAMILTON
WARRNAMBOOL
SALE
MARYBOROUGH
Head Office: 44 Lonsdale Street East, near Swanston Street.
New Coffee Palace, Bourke street.
59 Swanston Street, opposite Town Hall.
Swan Street.
Chapel Street.
Sturt Street.
... Pall Mall, next Lyceum Stores.
56 Moorabool Street.
Main Street, next Aeschimann’s.
High Street.
* ... ... Camp Street.
Gray Street.
Fairy Street.
Foster Street.
High Street, opposite Golden Age Hotel.
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT TH
CflL
,0H y '
Gr
<Sc SOITS, Caxria.g'e
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OP ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository: -5, 7,8, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
Metropolitan Manufactory: 32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET,
THE
COLONIAL MUTUAL
LIFE
ASSURANCE
SOCIETY
NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Pernod or in the Event of Survival
IN TONTINE SURPLUS. 43" Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
H
WIESENER'S WATCHES!
AVE proved a success as Useful and Reliable Timekeepers
and the Public can rely upon being served
fully r Op V
>ers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class Watches (in sterling Silver and Gold cases only) ar® fcba jaoa o *’
or Toy Shops, where the only aim can be “ to g®
WIESENER'S WATCHES!
WIESENER'S
WALTHAM
- mROTHERHAM and WATCH COMPANY’S SILVER ENGLISH PATENT LEVERS, from 70s.
ißememberZthe Address — . Pn ct ofM*
T. F. WIESENER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between Hunter-street and P°
