

The Bulletin
Vol 9—No 453.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1888.
Price, 6d.
Moonshine.
“ MR. HAYNES HAS SUGGESTED TO THE GOVERNMENT,” &c.


The Bulletin
file National Australian Newspaper.
84 Australia for thk Australians.”
Proprietors ? bulletin NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
-a.5 M Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 6 H
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclbod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
** Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
<sf such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
2jcesßulceim.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1888.
Wanted—A Couri of Appeal.
It is one of the chief boasts of the Anglo-
Saxon “loyalist” of the day that he re-
verences with holy awe the institutions and
laws that were handed down to him by his
forefathers, and that he is prepared to shed
his blood, or something else equally value-
less to the community, both in its shed anc
its unshed condition, to secure their preser
vation. He wears with conscious pride the
left-off garments in which were wrapped the
minds of his long-buried predecessors, anc
he walks in the broken boots with which the
feet of their national intellect were shoe
when antiquity was young, and ignorant in
proportion to its youth. The old do’ of his
soul have been stretched and altered a little
to suit the times, but as far as possible the
original material has been preserved, anc
even such alterations as have proved un
avoidable have been made with deep groan
ings and other outward evidences of despair
New tails have been sewn to the rotten fabric
of a Constitution which the British nation
has long since outgrown ; a fresh set of horns
has been screwed on to the Established
Church, and the whole legal system of the
country has been half-soled and otherwise
repaired, but a deep and slow-moving
veneration for ancient usages has hitherto
prevented any legislative iconoclast laying
violent hands on the whole unwieldy fabric
with a view of tearing it to the ground anc
replacing it with something newer and better
suited to the requirements of the century.
* • *
The process of patching has led, as might
be expected, to strange and incongruous re-
sults. The ideas of the age of steam have
been clumsily tacked on to the traditions of
the age of monkery and mail-clad barons
the laws of the nineteenth century clash in
the British code with forgotten but atil]
valid enactments passed in the days of Wat
Tyler and Jack Straw, and every now and
then the world is startled by some astound-
ing injustice perpetrated by the British
Courts on the strength of some ancient
statute originally passed to assert the grand old
principle that anybody who was strong enough
to annex other people’s property should do
pretty much as he pleased. The code under
which the British nation is governed—the
same code which Britain graciously bestowed
upon the infant world of Australia—is a
vast collection of grotesque and anomalous
statutes, which, read by the light of modern
civilisation, are as much out of keeping with
their surroundings as would be a burlesque
Scripture in which the Hebrew seers of old
prophesied through a telephone and the
children of Israel came up out of Egypt by
rail.
* » ->
The high-handed injustice of the criminal
system which Australia inherited from Eng-
land is especially manifest in the lofty
contempt manifested for human life anc
liberty as compared with the inten
consideration shown towards Proper
in every form. Man, in the days wh
the English criminal code began to ta
shape, was an animal of little accoun
The men who made the laws were them
selves mostly superior to the laws, and t
lives of the men who did not make law
were not in any way interesting to the g
verning classes. Property, on the oth
hand, was a subject in which these ear
Briti h law-makers took an interest : the;
had almost a monopoly of it, and, in protec
ing property by every possible safeguard
they were building ramparts for their ow
security. The masses of humanity ha
ceased, through the abolition of serfdom,
be property, and their lives, being no long
a marketable commodity, were hardly wor
consideration ; they were too low to asser
themselves, and yet low enough to make ii
hardly worth while for anyone to advoca
their rights ; and, consequently, their wan
were considered chiefly from the standpoin
that they wanted hanging, and lavish pr
vision was made for hanging them as fast an
with as little ceremony as possible,
general idea that the “lower orders” r
quired to be hanged was naturally accom
panied by a conviction that it mattered ver
little whether the right man was suspende
or whether some one else was suspended
his stead. In the latter case there wa
always a fair probability that the man wh
was wiped out by mistake deserved his fa
for some other offence, and the man V/hos
place he tilled would probably be wiped ou
by mistake some other time-, when thing
would be made square all round and ever
thing would be quite correct. And even *
the astonished victim of a legal eiror hac
not earned the penalty which overtook him
he served to point a valuable moral to th
community, or failing even that he could
least congratulate himself on his re leas
from a world which presented few attraction
for the poor, and supposing all these mora
reflections missed fire, it was gratifying to re
fleet that he was a man of no special impor
tance, and his loss would count for ver
little at the worst.
* * *
Australia took over these sentiments a
part of the inheritance bestowed upon he
by the beloved land of her parentage, anc
consequently Australian law is the expression
of a profound and enduring respect for pro
per ty and a whole-souled disregard for anythin
so unimportant as human life and liberty. Th
monied litigant who contends over the title t
a fragment of land is provided with every
facility for a long succession of appeals, anc
if he is resolved to pursue his demand fo
justice to the bitter end it is hard to tel
when his privilege is finally exhausted
Months and even years may elapse before
he is compelled to give up the contest, anc
even after half a dozen trials there remain
a maze of legal possibilities by which side
issues may be opened up and the whole
dreary round of legal warfare commencec
afresh. Property, however humble its
form, is a sacred thing, and the law treats i
with reverence, fully recognising that the
Lord thinks twice before he damns a man
whose rents have always come in regularly
Bat criminal procedure is run on a differen
plan, and the suspected assassin is tried anc
condemned and hanged, and his remains
have crumbled into dust, and there is abund
ant time to discover that he was hanged by
mistake after all, and the gruesome blunde:
has become ancient history and been for
gotten before the civil litigant has rung the
changes on even half the long catalogue o:
legal forms provided for the protection 01
the Anglo-Saxon’s god—Property.
• • *
The fact that the Australian statutes pro-
vide no responsible Court of Appeal even in
the case of capital sentences is a ghastly
commentary on the value put upon human
life in these days of iron and steam anc
usury. The Judge who resolves a case in
which property is involved is regarded by
the law as a fallible being and his decision is
subject to repeated revision, but the same
Judge, sitting to try the case of a suspected
homicide, puts on the attributes of the Deity
and his judgment is practically final. The
law, which patiently considers over and over
again the evidence in a civil suit, refuses to
grant the condemned prisoner a second trial,
even though positive proof of his innocence
may have come to light ; and after his case
has once been slurred through, however
carelessly and callously, the doors of Justice
are closed against him. Even though the
evidence on which he was convicted may be
afterwards disproved in every particular
there exists no legal machinery whatever by
which his sentence may be reversed ; the
criminal law of Australia was built that it
might serve as a road to the gallows, but no
road back from the gallows has ever been
constructed. The ferocious code of the nine-
teenth century, like that of the seventeenth,
considers the requirements of the uncul-
tured masses from the immovable stand-
point that they badly require to be hanged,
and it makes abundant provision for hanging
them accordingly. Provision for not hang-
ing them has been entirely left out.
• • •
Being thus deserted by the law, there-
fore, the one hope of the prisoner un-
justly condemned lies in an application
for “mercy” to the representative of the
British Crown, and occasionally—only occa-
sionally—the royal prerogative gives him the
redress which the cast-iron code is powerless
to afford. No formal hearing is allowed hi
that he may bring forward the eviden
which, owing to the indecent haste o
Australian criminal procedure is fr
quently unobtainable at his trial. T 1
prisoner, as a rule, is brought to tl
bar of the ordihary criminal court whe
the case for the prosecution is fully pr
pared ; if the defence is not equally com
plete, his chances are so much the wors
and the gallows tosses him f6r his life with
double-headed penny—and wins. But as
matter of form the Governor or the Cabine
consider the case in secret. The judge b
whom sentence was passed is frequent
present—virtually as an advocate for th
hangman, for the release of a condemnec
prisoneristhebitterestpossible censUreon th
person bef re whom the case was condhctec
and on the legal system of which he is th
chief agent; the prisoner is seldom repre
sentecl. The evidence on which he relies ma;
or may not, be properly considered. If t£
Cabi 'e is tired, or busy, or harassed b
political troubles, if its leading members an
absent stumping the country in the interest
of Freetrade, Orangeism, Protection, sec
tarianism, or denominationalism, if they ar
away carrying on a crusade with an Escapee
Nun, or are engaged to dine with a globe
trotting nobleman from England, the ques
tion on which a human life, depenc
may be disposed of with what under th
circumstances, amounts to bat a v c r;
ccrpry glance at the details. Or
again, the Cabinet may be divided agains
itself on political issues, and because the sec
tion which demands an import duty
shovels and goloshes gives its vote for mere
the section which demands that shovels arc
goloshes should come in free may (such i
the perversity of human nature) be uncon
scieusly prejudiced in favour of the directl
opposite view. The supposition may seem
too atrocious to be entertained even fo
a moment, yet such a thing has been mor
than hinted at in New South Wales, anc
no unanimous outburst of public indignation
was aroused by the unveiled suggestion
that human lives were being used a
shuttlecocks between the pig-headed sec
tions of a government We have seen i
stated with brutal frankness in the dail;
Press that a well-known Cabinet Miniate
‘ ‘ had no intention of resigning until a cer
tain prisoner was hanged,” and, false as the
accusation undoubtedly was, for the as
sailed Minister was a notoriously humane
man, the statement might easily be
construed as an insinuation that a poli
tician was retaining a position which
had become practically untenable merely
in order that ha might outrage the feel
ings of a colleague with whom he was at
variance by sacrificing a human life on the
gibbet. The man whose honour was thus
called in question may or may not have seen
the paragraph in question, but anyhow he
took no action in regard to the affair, no at
tention was paid to the widely-circulatec
charge, and. the community let the hideous
insinuation pass unnoticed. The misarably
low value at which the first principles oi
justice are estimated the mother colony
of the Australias was never more clearly
accentuated than by this little circumstance.
• * *
Under the old system of Australian
“justice” the Governor and Council, acting
in concert, formed, though in a cumbersome,
irresponsible, and unsatisfactory manner,
the sole court of appeal to which cases could
be carried from the criminal courts, and for
many years this secret tribunal shuffled
through its functions, sometimes exhaus-
tively considering cases, sometimes dis-
posing of them with evidently but little
consideration, and seldom by any chance re-
flecting credit on its high office. But the
M usgravb - Kitts dead-lock led to a reorgani-
sation of this semi-judicial combination.
The Cabinet has now the power to compel
the Governor to grant mercy, but as the
Governor has also the power to commute a
sentence even against the expressed will of
his advisers he forms in himself a separate
and independent court. The manner in
which this one-man tribunal performs its
functions can best be shown in the reply (by
telegraph) of Governor Carington to the
nine jurymen who appealed for mercy in
the case of George Hbwart :
As the case was so carefully and thoroughly considered,
and the Council see no reason to altsr their opinion, the
law must take its course. Please communicate with
jurors. (Signed) Carrington.
In this way two judicial daddocks leaned up
against each other for support, each feeling
that without the other it must fall to the
ground. The Cabinet shuffled off its load
of responsibility by the statement that it
had no advice to offer, and the Governor
shuHied the responsibility back by replying
that since the Cabinet could offer no advice
he could do nothing. His answer was sent
by telegraph, for the highest and best paid
judge in the land did not even consider it
necessary to postpone the execution in
order that he might be present to per-
sonally hear and consider the further repre-
sentations which were sought to be made
on behalf of a pauper prisoner by citizens
who had a right to approach his court.
And in dealing with this aspect of the case
it is idle to assert that the Governor has no
court, and is powerless to act without the
advice of the Executive. The instructions
under which he acts define his position with
the utmost clearness :
The Governor shall not pardon nor reprieve any such
offender unless it shall appear to him expedient so to do
upon receiving the advice of the said Executive Council
thereon ; but in all such cases he is to decide either to
extend or to withhold a pardon or reprieve according to
his own deliberate judgment whether the members of t
Executive Council 'concur therein or otherwise, enterin
nevertheless on the minutes of the said Executive Comic
a minute of his reasons at length, in case he should deck
any such Question in opposition to the judgment of tl
majority of the members thereof.
These instructions have lately been modified
so that the power of refusing a repriev
against the will of the Council no longe
exists, but the Governor still retain
authority to grant mercy against the will o:
aril Australia, and as the only judge in th
continent whose mission is entirely one o
benevolence it Is his duty, more than that o:
any other court, to give a patient hearing t
every scrap of evidence which may b
brought under his notice, and to diligent!
search for every possible reason which ma;
by any means justify him in the exercise o
the only function which does honour to hi
office.
* « •
The whole system of Australian law was buil
to serve as a handy companion to the gaole
and his minions, and it answers its pur
pose to perfection. The hurried procedur
in criminal cases, so widely different from
the slow and careful course of law wher
property is concerned ; the absence of a]
provision for a legal revision of the sentence
the appeal to a political body ignorant o
law, and often incapable through lack o
training of considering a case intelligently
under any circumstances ; a body which
at the best, can only give to it a few hur
ried moments stolen from the avocation
of state, which holds its sittings in
secret, and thus ceases, in some degree, to
be answerable to public opinion—the one in
fluence that secures even a small measure o:
purity in the administration of justice—
which distributes pardons by rule-of-thuml
and too ofoen manages to find extenu
ating circumstances in the case of the
well-connected criminal, and which is prac
tically irresponsible, giving no reason for it
decisions and no explanation as to how thej
are arrived at —all these things are disgrace
ful and degrading to the cause of alleged
justice as justice is understood in the happj
land of Australia. And beyond these lies tin
final appeal to some worn-out man of fashion
some club lounger ignorant of even the forms
of justice, who is still more irresponsible than
the Cabinet—who being “constitutional” to
the verge of cowardice may pass sentence by
telegraph and jerk the hangman’s rope by
means of the electric spark, and who may
be so utterly incapable of appreciating the
duties and tremendous responsibilites of his
position that he may decline even to grant a
week’s respite in order to consider statements
which may otherwise convince him of his error
afterthe convictis dead and buried and turned
into ancient history. Only one element is
wanting in the farce : let the inferior court
also try the prisoner by telephone and for-
ward its verdict on a post-card, and pass
sentence by wire, and the system of criminal
procedure will have acquired a degree of
uniformity closely approaching to perfection.
* • *
The Sydney Echo, when the case of
George Hbwarx was under consideration,
appeared on deck to raise its voice on behali
of the existing order of things :
Bat these agitations, whilst they are in a large degree
unhealthy in their source, are un wholesome in their ten-
dencies and effects. It is one thing to make a simple
petition for mercy ; id is another to endeavour, on grounds
unworthy of trust, to shake public faith in the adminis-
tration of justice. Neither judges nor jttriea are infal-
lible ; but we have no better means of conducting criminal
inquiries with a view to the protection of society by the
detection and punishment of crime.
To this miserable drivel it is only necessary
to reply that if the constant revision and re-
versal of the decisions of judges and juries in
civil cases does not “ shake public faith in
the administration of justice,” the same pro-
cess could be applied in criminal cases with
equally good results. But in reality the
Echo is convicted out of its own mouth.
That obscure little journal is merely the
shadow of the S.M. Herald, the paper
which, though it had all along backed
up the action of those who had publicly
defiled the Goddess of Justice, on the
morning of the Mount Rennie executions
declared that the prisoners had not re-
ceived a fair trial, and the action of the
ponderous daily organ, though postponed
until its censure became a mockery and read
like an infamous jest, was eminently cal-
culated to cover the administration of the
law with derision, and was tantamount to a
declaration that in some cases trial by a
single court was nothing else than judicial
homicide. The journal which drivels at a
penny is contradicted by the journal, issued
from the same office, which drivels at
twopence. But in reality the law has
already sunk so low in public estima
tion that it can find no further depth
of degradation. A system by which
a prisoner is sentenced to day to 10
years’ penal servitude for the theft of a
few shillings, while another culprit to-morrow
is condemned to three months’ confinement
for defalcations of 10 times the amount, by
which a man without friends is doomed to 14
years’ imprisonment and two floggings for
driving a prostitute in a cab simply because
a mishap occurred to her later on through
the instrumentality of some one else, while
a “well-connected” criminal who, pleads
guilty to assault on a child is merely bound
oyer to appear when wanted, and which pro-
vides no legal machinery for the correction
of such tremendous abuses has already fallen
beneath contempt, and is lower than infamy.
The criminal code of Australia is in itself a
national crime, and the feeble penny organ
which demands that such a system should
be treated with respect is a sharer in its dis-
grace and a partner in its degradation.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wanted, a Clothes-Prop:
SoilE superfine, hot-pressed, cream-laid cad has
favoured the Melbourne Leader with some vacui-
ties concerning Sir Harry Atkinson, Premier—
or “Prime Minister,” as this gifted buttons calls
him—of New Zealand. Among other things the
good old New Zealand bushv/hacker is not pretty
enough to please his Melbourne critic, who says f—
“There are few men less indebted to nature for
personal attractions and fewer still who could be
the Prime Minister of a great colony and look so
positively unlike one.” Then a shuddering Uni-
verse learns that Sir H. is a shade below
the medium height, he is squat and round
built, and is inclined, like Pan alderman, to
grow rounder.” According to these canons
of high art, a “Prime Minister” must look like
one, though how a Prime Minister looks when he
looks like a Prime Minister depends largely on
the public estimate of how he ought to look so as
not to look merely like a Postmaster-General.
Are all Prime Ministers, save and except Harry
Atkinson, tall and handsome and debonnair ?
Hitherto there has been a kind of impression that
some of the most celebrated men hardly looked
like anybody at all in a crowd. The first Napo-
leon, for instance, was rather a celebrity, and so
was the third of that ilk, and both were “ornery
looking.” M. Thiers was neither handsome nor
big; Ben. Dizzy was mentally big, but not
physically a society beauty; the great Duke of
Luxembourg—despite the impression that a bril-
liant general should be a person with an eagle eye
and a stately aspect—was a fishy-looking object
four feet high, with a huge hump and a face like a
rag-picker’s ; Sir Julius Vogel, who possesses
brains if he has nothing else, is a lumbersome
individual who is at once corpulent and
ramshackle in his architecture; even Graham
Berry, once Prime Minister of Victoria, is,
leaving his wicked blue eye out of the question,
hardly an Adonis, and could not, therefore, have
properly filled the LsADER-man’s artistic eye.
Then, “there is absolutely nothing distingue”
(French) about Atkinson, and he “might be a
bushman, a company-promoter, a cockatoo farmer
(sic), a foreman engineer or carpenter, a railway
or road contractor,” or “any of the occupations
to which the ordinary herd of mankind resort for
a living.” In short, hewears a versatile aspect and
might be anything from a dustman to a king—
there isn’t much difference in the two jobs after
all. Then he is not a sassiety man, and above all
he does not dress well, though at his worst he is
never so seedy as Victoria by the Grace of
God. All these things are very sad and
they make up a crushing indictment against
Democracy and popular Government. If the
Maorilanders would only ask the Colonial
Office to ship them a Premier from off
Pall Mall they might easily get a beautiful
creature, gilt-edged and jewelled in 10 holes, with
elegant boots and an Oxford bleat, and he would
look “ distingue” or burst. The only merit the
Leader permits Atkinson is some ‘ 1 force of
character ;” but what is force of character, or
brains, or even political honesty, compared to
gorgeous ties, primrose kids, and masher collars ?
Positively nothing ! It is to be hoped the brave
old bullock-puncher will benefit by these re-
marks, and that he will eat anti-fat and
have lessons in deportment, and if the
finances of New Zealand won’t run to State dia-
monds, that he will buy something sweet in paste
out of the Consolidated Fund. By so doing he
will be looked up to by Australian politicians with
nice clothes and rings and a Grecian bend in their
figures and another in their accounts; also he
will gratify the stupendous Leader flunkey, and
New Zealand will no longer have to blush because
her Premier is simply an honest and capable man
with large boots and a kind heart. Gee, Straw-
berry !
+
Tlie Workman’s Friend,
What a very good friend to the working classes is
the Sydney Morning Herald ! An unfortunate
bricklayer’s labourer who had been incurably in-
jured while working 10 feet below the level of the
roadway, obtained by consent a verdict for £350 in
an action for compensation. His employers,
who presumably knew what they were about,
never disputed their liability, and the only
question between the parties was the amount of
damages, which was presently agreed upon. But
the Herald laments that the question did not go
to a jury and thus lays down the law
Neglect of reasonable precautions by employers and
their servants should always carry with it a due measure
of responsibility, but it would be laying down an un-
wholesome doctrine to say that every man must be abso-
lutely protected against danger by the precautions of
other people, and that he may freely expose himself to
danger with senseless indifference. The business of life
could hardly be carried on under such conditions.”
This is very unwholesome snivel. As a matter of
fact, every man is entitled to “be actually pro-
tected from danger by the precautions of other
people,” if the danger arises from the operations
of other people, and if he is engaged in liis own
lawful business he is not expected to imagine that
other people are putting him in peril. In this
case the Herald plainly hints that the unhappy
plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence,
and should not have been compensated because
the process by which he was injured bad
been going on for some hours, and he
had actually spoken to the workman en-
gaged in it. The conversation between the
labourer in the pit and the journeyman on the
scaffold who was throwing bricks not into the pit
but on to the ground-floor of the building appears
to have consisted of the following dialogue. Man
below: “Blank and dash it, Bill, look out or
you’ll be chucking one of those bricks on my
head.” Man Above: “Go to blankey.” Pre-
sently a badly-aimed brick knocks the labourer
into smash, and the Herald sympathises, not
with the poor devil who is injured for life bub
with the employers who have to pay
him a compensation equal to about a
shilling a day. It never occurs to the
Herald that when the contractors directed a
bricklayer to cut away a brick wall to make room
for a girder it was their duty to provide some
means of disposing of the bricks which would not
have involved danger to the rest of their work-
men. Nor does the capitalists’ organ vouchsafe to
remember that the unlucky labourer who was
digging in a pit 10 feet deep could only get out of
danger by deserting his work, which would pro-
bably have meant dismissal and distress.
4
Landlords’ law.
The laws of New South Wales were made by
landlords and for landlords, and no law worth
mentioning has ever yet been made for anybody
who isn’t a landlord, excepting, of course, the
liberal provision made by people who own pro-
perty for hanging people who don’t own property.
Consequently relations between landlord and
tenant are apt to be strained. For instance, in
Sydney a week or two ago a eabman sued one
Himmelhoch ( Anglide, “sky-high”) to recover
damages for the seizure of a cab, horse, and
harness, and the law at once decided that though
the cabman in question didn’t owe Himmelhoch
anything that gentleman was fully authorised to
seize his property because someone else owed him
something. Himmelhoch leased a house to a
cabman at a rental of 25s a week, and the tenant
sublet to a second cabman from whom he collected
the rent regularly. Falling behind, however, in
his own payments a bailiff was inserted in the
premises, and the man who paid his rent regu-
larly and who knew nothing at all about Himmel-
hoch was deprived of his means of earning a
livelihood to square a debt that he had never
heard of. The matter was laid before the courts,
and it was at once decided that this was good law
and satisfactory justice, and the dead-broke cab-
man was ordered to pay the costs of the action.
The men who make laws are mostly fossils who
own houses, and so long as the rents come In
regularly it doesn’t concern them who is ruined in
the process of collection. Moreover the law-
makers are the pillars of the Church, and the
Church is built upon the doctrine of vicarious
sacrifice, so that in taking a horse and cab from a
man who doesn’t owe anything merely because
the man who does owe something hasn’t got any
horse and cab to levy on they are shoring up the
cardinal doctrines of the Church and illustrating
by practical experiment how their creed is founded
on a rock.
Other People’s Money.
The pertinacity with which a body of English
shareholders in the Bank of Australasia have
pursued their directorate for working a very small
job is in striking contrast with that growing
“ spirit of acquiescence ” which threatens to be-
come a feature of Australian character. It is a
matter of history that the directors of the Bank
of Australasia, being generous-hearted gentlemen,
voted on their own responsibility a sum of other
people’s money to the family of Mr. E S. Parkks,
who was unfortunately killed in the last Mel-
bourne railway - smash. Such generosity was more
beautiful than urgently called for, seeing that the
deceased employe of the Bank met his death under
circumstances of actual pecuniary advantage to
his heirs, a fact of which the shareholders were
naturally aware. However, the Bank directors,
discussing the sad occurrence over a sherry
and biscuit in the board-room, decided to
grant a pension of £l5OO a year for five
years to the Parkes family. Had they been
dealing with the money of Australian share li riders
they might have doubled that pension without
exciting any serious opposition. At a Melbourne
meeting, say, several prominent citizens would
have expressed their satisfaction at everything
done by the Board, the Board would have thanked
the prominent citizens for their support in what
they (the Board) felt to be a public duty, while
the discontented shareholders of lower social
status stood silently by, and thought it “wasn’t
worth making a bother about.” Only the other
day that active and intelligent bank director, Sir
William Clarke, had £lOOO a year added to his
screw, and not a man said nay. The shareholders
in Sir William's bank are Australians—but
to resume. In the Parkes case the ruling
powers had to deal with people who go out
of their way to fight for small rights
which Australians will relinquish without a
murmur. One shareholder, representing the
aggressive party, brought an action to restrain the
directors from giving away £7500 of other people’s
money. Individually, the malcontents hadn’t a
shilling at stake, but they thought the principle
involved was worth making a bother about. The
suit was unsuccessful. The losers paid the costs
and brought another action. They lost again.
But they stuck to their point, and a meet-
ing of shareholders which was of an “ excited and
tumultuous character” (says the cable) and re-
sulted in the carrying of a motion to re-
scind the Parkes grant. The Bulletin
is not a professed champion of England
or Englishmen in their official and political
relations with this country, simply because they
are politically and officially doing their best to
blast its future. But it is impossible not to ad-
mire the tenacity of purpose shown in this Bank
of Australasia matter, and not to see how healthily
it comparts with the colonial's indifference to
everythin? that “isn’t worth making a bother
about.” We question whether the sheep-like
orderliness of an Australian crowd is, after all,
such a splendid national characteristic as we have
been taught by newspapers to believe.
*
Wrongs of the Inconviclcd.
In his denunciation of Barrier barbarity Sir
Frederick Dakley, Chief Justice of New South
Wales, passed judgment on the whole tenour of
the criminal law which it is his duty to administer.
Whether a man’s ankles be gyved or his hands
tied, whether he be made to lie in a filthy cell or
stand in a police-court dock, the principle involved
is the same —namely, that until he is proved to be
guilty the suspected person is entitled to be treated
as if he were innocent. This legal principle does
not imply that he is not to be placed under arrest
and secured. It simply declares that beyond the
means necessary for detaining him for trial neither
force nor indignity is to be applied to him. But
what is the fact? From the time a suspected
person is tapped on the shoulder by an officer of
the law till be is finally dealt with by magistrate
or judge he is treated as if he possess!d no rights.
In lockup and gaol he is subjected to repulsive
indignities which serve no purpose in furtherance
of tne ends of justice. When he enters the co ;rt
for trial he is placed in the dock. The best jurists
of all countries hold that misdemeanants and
other tractable accused persons should be allowed
seats on the floor of the court. There is no doubt
that the average juryman’s mind is affected by
the appearance of the person on whom he has to
pass judgment, and there is as little doubt that
many innocent men look guilty when made to
stand within the rails cf the criminal’s pen. And
there is further indignity and injustice in store
for the unfortunate suspect. If it he his fate
to fall to any of the District Courts he will find
that his case will be put on the list at the foot of
all the civil cases to be tried. Men who want to
arrive at a settlement of a milkman’s account will
receive audience of the couit before those whose
liberty; and life are at stake. The gyving and
pinioning of the Barrier are, then, only emphasised
forms of that general contempt for human rights
which the whole tenour of the Criminal Law in
parts expressly warrants, and for the rest tacitly
authorises.
flic Australian Fetlcb.
Judge Quinlan, of Victoria, finds that robbery
in company is spreading in that colony, and he
has sallied out with a cat-o’-nine-tails to put the
crime down. The last couple of men who came
before him and were found guilty under that head
he has sentenced to seven years’ hard labour and
15 lashes apiece. This will not, we have often
argued, subjugate the criminal instinct of these
men, nor will it cow the criminal propensities of
others. It will goad, enrage, and madden the
present victims, and corrupt, excite, and make
brutes of others. The Past has no tongue for the
preachers of the lash. The weapon has been itself
whipped from post to post as civilisation ad-
vanced, till now only a few advocates, and
these mostly in ill-reputed quarters of
the world, can be found to argue in its
favour. It has let go the hacks of women,
it has let go the backs of sailors, it has let go the
backs of soldiers, and the world has been all the
better because the foul thing ceased to rend these
one-time victims. The world will be still better
when the cab’s power for maddening its direct
victims and degrading the populace at large
is wholly destroyed. Fifty years ago Horace
Smith, prophesying the abolition of the lash in
the near future, prayed that the flogging dis-
ciplinarians of England would pass away at the
same time. This, in numbers, they have done,
but every now and then there comes to light on
the Judicial Bench of A ustralia a man who makes
us think that Horace’s petition was but partially
granted—floggers in numbers have passed away
from England, but the spirit that animated them
has taken a fresh lease of life in Australia.
4
The Boycott.
The gigantic match-makers, Bryant and May,
have been compelled to knuckle down to the de-
mands of the girls in their employ. They had
lowered the pay of these poor wretches below the
maiglnal line that divides a bare living from slow
starvation ; naturally enough, the girls then went
out on strike. The terrible details published by
the Socialists, headed by Mrs. Bksant, so touched
the public that subscriptions came in towards the
strike fund at the rate of £l5O per week. Still the
firm held out, and talked loudly of talcing their
capital out of the country, &c., till it looked
as if the girls would be forced bo submit
as soon as subscriptions ceased to come in.
But a bright idea struck someone; a boycott on
Bryant and May's matches was instituted, it was
almost universally taken up by smokers, house-
wives, and every lover of his kind. People abso-
lutely refused to buy the well-known matches,
declaring that “there is blood on the box.” The
firm saw tremendous losses staring them in the
face, so quickly withdrew their former proposals,
granted all the girls’ requests, and desired them
to “form a union, so that future differences could
be settled in a le s expensive and troublesome
way.” Then the capitalistic press, which had up
till then been upholding the firm and abusing the
Socialists, turned round and proceeded to lecture
the great match-manufacturers for giving way.
That so-called Liberal organ, the Daily News,
blatantly bellowed that the firm had failed in their
duty to the public, to law and order, and regretted
that “ they should thus have taught the workers
the dangerous lesson that there is power in com-
bination and agitation. It would assuredly lead
to so much trouble of a similar character in
future.” We are on the verge of a similar struggle
here— may it be settled in a similar fashion.
De. Cobtis, of the New South Wales Assembly,
wants Protection for Bathurst, the town which
returned him as a Foreign-Trade politician, and
Freetrade for all the rest of the colony. The
other day his constituents passed a vote to the
effect that they were dog- tired of Cortis, and the
doctor, in a pathetic letter to the Sydney D.T.,
took up the burden of his lament thus ;
It is only fair to me t l at wlat occurred should be pub-
lished In my address I said that I was, if possible, a
firmer believn- than ever in the principles of Freetrade.
. . . It v as proved that about 145 men had been dis-
missed, work being taken to Syoney which should be done
in Bithurot. These men had many of them ti sell their
resioences at a sacrifice, and the town loees the expendi-
ture ct their wages —from £lOOO to £l2OO per month.
It will thus be seen that Dr. Cortis, as a Bathurst
Protectionist, objects to work being removed
from Bathurst to Sydney, but as a New South
Wales Freetrader he is quite willing that work
should be removed from the colony in general to
China, France, Germany, or anywhere else where
labour is cheap and prices are low. The Free-
trader is always confronted by the same old diffi-
culty. If he preaches his own doctrines in all
their bald repulsiveness, his constituents greet
him with dead cats and venerable eggs, so he
endeavours to fence with the difficulty by assert-
ing that he advocates Protection for the spot of
earth on which he stands, and that bis Freetrade
theories are meant to apply somewhere else.
—.«.
The Parkks Government has put on a spurt, and
the New South Wales revenue returns for the
quarter ending September 30 show an increase
compared to those of the corresponding quarter of
last year, which is already vaunted as an “evi-
dence of growing prosperity,” and a sure sign of
the beneficent results accruing from Foreign-trade.
But although only a few days have elapsed since
the figures were published, it has already been
ascertained that nearly two-thirds of the increase
have been obtained by that judicious process of
“ faking ” for which the Government is so famous.
The returns from pastoral leases show a sudden
rise from £162,974, for the quarter ending 30th
September, ’B7, to £368,743 for the quarter just
closed, or an advance of about £206,000; while
the total increase for the yeir under this heading
is only £242,000 in all. These results show that a
stupendous rise has ben crowded into one
quarter, while the other nine months of the year
show an improvement which is so small as to
amount to little else than stagnation, and a
Western squatter now writes to the Star to fur-
nish a reason for this phenomenon. The pas-
toralists, according to his explanation of the cir-
cumstances, were induced to pay up in advance by
the pressure of a degrading shuffle, which is calcu-
lated to reflect disgrace even upon a Ministry
composed entirely of Parkes Most of them had,
and still have, large claims against the
Government on account cf the rabbit subsidy
—claims which, in some cases, far exceed the
amounts due by them to the Treasury—and the
vouchers for these sums have been presented again
and again at the office over which Mr. Burns
presides, only to be rejected by that insolent
department on the plea that no money is avail-
able. But when the Foreign-trade Cabinet found
itself in dire straits for coin and was compelled, as
a matter of necessity, to show some visible sign of
prosperity, a general intimation was conveyed to
the squatters that, provided their rents were paid
in the first place, the subsidy would be promptly
forthcoming. A large number of them sent in
their cheques accordingly; there was a sudden
boom at the Treasury, and money, which had been
tight almost as far back as the officials could
remember, now lay about loose in a way that was
calculated to make everybody dizzy from the
oldest clerk right down to the messenger and the
office cat; Mr. Burns presented his quarterly
returns with a light heart, and all was joyous and
gay. But the men who sent in the money haven’t
met with any better success in collecting that
vexatious rabbit subsidy, and the long-postponed
payment is still drifting away into the shadowy
regions of the Greek Kalends.
♦
A more contemptible attempt to prejudice public
opinion by the rehashing of previously dis-
proved statements than that furnished by “ T
over J ” in a recent dissertation on the strike
question in the columns of the S.M. Herald.
never appeared in a professedly independent
paper. It is doubtful if such articles can benefit
in any way the capitalistic position, for the writer
is so venomous that he blindly uses arguments
telling most strongly against his own side of the
question. In fact, while failing to cause more
than a smile of contempt among the friends of
Labour, the article is calculated to disgust even the
intelligent monopolist. “ There is no greater
menace to democratic institutions than the
cowardly complaisance of those who want always
to take sides with the biggest monoy-bags—per-
fas et nefas.”
Press Pars.
The Parliamentary reporter of one of the
N.Z. dailies having furnished his paper with some
items regarding a certain M.H.R., which items-
were not of a sufficiently saponaceous character
to please the ’igh and ’aughty Representative, the
latter ordered said newspaper man out of
the lobby of the House the first time he met him
there. Since tnen the members of the Press
Gallery have considered their position with regard
to Representatives generally, with the view to
ascertaining how far it is consonant with the
dignity of the Press to be seen speaking to Mem -
bers of the House at all, and whether the latter
persons shall be permitted, as heretofore, to hang
round the lobbies and press-room for the purpose
of obtaining information and guidance from
gentlemen connected with newspapers, lb was
decided to treat Parliamentary Representatives
with every reasonable indulgence, and to permit
them to pay for drinks as long as they remembered
their inferior position, but all future attempts at
familiarity on their part are to be sternly and
promptly repressed.
* • •
Wellington (N.Z.) is celebrated, among
other things, for its temporary possession of a
powerful lady and gentleman, who are the sole
patentees and proprietors of a colossal grievance
against the colony, supposed to be land, but the
precise nature of which is shrouded by the dim
mists of antiquity. During session they hang
around the public buildings and Ministerial resi-
dences for the purpose of chevying inoffensive
Premiers, M.’sH.R., and persons of that sorb.
They do nob often secure an old member because
old members are too wary, and because a bleeding
country provides a special police-constable to
shadow the couple night and day. Still, as the
average policeman can only be in one place at a
time —and not always there —and as the husband
sometimes sallies up one street while the good lady
curvets down another, she is occasionally fortu-
nate enough to bail up some senile senator, and to
hold him with her glittering eye until he is rescued
by the constable and carted to the lunatic asylum
for temporary treatment. Whenever a strange
reporter comes up to the Parliamentary gallery
the old hands point him out to the gentleman, and
his spouse as the “ New member for Rimutikei-
whanga,” or where not, and the pertinacious
ones stalk that new reporter accordingly. A young
and guileless scribe from the north was recently
lying in his little bed —room No. 173, White Hart
Hotel -after a 2 a.m., sitting, nursing a consum-
ing headache, and using expressive language
towards the breakfast gong just sounded, when a
bang came at his door, and Mr. A-—-, together
with his giievance, and Mrs. A entered. The
latter planked her sj Iph-like 14 stone at foot of the
bed, unravelled a bagful of documents, and
plunged headlong into the midst of a delirious
statement under the impression that the shocked
small man in the bed was a brand-new M.H.R.
Mr. A , looking through the window, descried
the Minister for Education passing, and rushed
down to impale him. The charmer had talked 47
minutes without a comma, and her helpless victim,
who thought he had fallen into some new kind of
a crazery in place of a hotel, was entreating her
with tears in his eyes to go away, and not
blast the character of an unprotected and
blameless boy, when the landlord and two
reporters who had been having a good time
on the landing came in and assured the lady that
the small individual with the throbbing brows was
not a M.H R.,but simplyaharmlessnesessary press
person. Then the outraged female arose in her
majesty and irnght, slammed the young man’s
boots, pantaloons, and portmanteau at him, and
went out in a whirlwind to report the insult
offered to her to poor old Vincent Pyke, who hap-
pened to be going down stairs without police
protection. The new reporter has now bought a
particularly bloodthirsty bull-dog and chained it
to the leg of his virtuous couch.
* * •
Mr. Terence Gilhooley. of Maaterton
(N.Z ), Esquire, day-labourer, dropped in a few
nights ago, promiscuous-like, to the local rum-
mill, with a raging drouth and no money or credit
upon him, and mentioned incidentally and
modestly that bis “ould woman, God hies: er!
had tin minutes ago presin ted him with triplets,
so she had.” The assembled citizens, feeling that
Mrs. Gilhooley had deserved well of her country,
and that some reflected lustre hung around Gil-
hooley, filled that patriot moderately full of
whisky in honour of the event. Under the be-
nign influence of copious tanglefoot Terence
waxed genial and boastful, and anon gave out an
oracular hint concerning “Quadruplets, next
toime, by the howly !” When Mrs. Gilhooley, in
the most robust health and with a copper-stick,
tripped, fairy-like, upon the scene, and invited
Terence to glide with her into the dark and silent
beyond to the melody of ‘ 1 Father, dear father,
come home wid me now ! ” Which he did. The
citizens desire to see Mr. Gilhooley to expostulate
with him.
O[?].
Sailor Bill is in trouble again. At New-
castle (N S.W.), the other day, William Ben-
nett, a ship's steward, got 48 hours’ for dis-
obedience at sea. He was ordered to make some
pastry, and refused, bis reason being that there
was nothing on board to make pastry with except
flour, water, and a few currants. The bench,
however, held that this didn't matter, and, in
view of this decision, we would like to know what
they would do to a sailor who refused to go to the
masthead of a ship that had lost all her masts, or
how they would view the case of a man who de-
clined to go on board his vessel when the vessel
had sunk a week before and taken all the rest of
the crew down with her.


Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-wiiitb
Patbnt Romißb Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ Amateur Scribendi ” (Richmond) : Not of
sufficient interest. The ignorant, bumptious J.P. is too
common to be entertaining “G.W.” (Burwood): Very
small incident and very profane....“ Anti-Humbug ”
(Ballarat): We should reckon that there was somebody
on the roof with a lantern or else that drink had some-
thing to do with it “ Forty Hater ” (Narandera): Your
poor, bashed little conundrum is duly to hand “ Aroz ”
(Sydney): We like your letter, and if we only liked it a
little more we would publish it right off “Curly Bill"
(Melbourne): We like your sentiments and we don’t dis-
like your verses, only we aren’t a church tea-meeting. If
we were a church tea-meeting we would print them in-
stantly “Protection” (Albury): We don’t sit on things
as small as Thomson “A Subscriber to The Bulletin ”
(Cook): When you ask us to slate “ the actual weight of
the three largest nuggets got in the colonies and by whom
and where were they obtained and all about them,” you
start too large an order altogether. We are at present
engaged in finding out the fighting weight of the pub-
lisher of the book that Job wished his enemy had
written, and this takes up all our spare time....
“ Nanto ” (Winbar): Your letter belongs to the mixed
order of architecture and doesn’t seem to be about any-
thing in particular. It is eminently calculated to unfix
the brain in every particular “Cockney”: “How
long, O Lord, How long 1 ” isn’t too long, but how thin it
is, O Lord, how thin !....“ E S.F.” : It is on the same
principle that the bow-legged man is a good wrestler.
The broader the base the stronger the structure “A.
Atkinson ”: Dr. Creed’s strictures on the S.M. Herald’s
leading article, which tended to create uneasy feelings in
the minds of hospital patients, were well-deserved.
The views of the writer of that article on the White-
chapel murders were thin every way, but that would not
matter had he not, in his feeble attempt to guage the
ways of science, put forward ideas which, if understood,
would be bound to jeopardise the sanity of patients
in all public institutions “Snooks”; Noted
“W.S.”: The Queensland police were possibly barking
up the wrong tree when they charged young Kirkman
with having killed the girl Keilty. Arguing from analogy,
the crime was not the crime of a youth. It was the crime
of a man of over 40 years of age “C.A.8.” (Brisbane);
We haven’t the heart to sit on a man whose name is
Whale. Isn't that enough to satisfy even your craving
for revenge. Whale ! “ New Norfolk ” (Tasmania): (1)
A square mile of ground is exactly equal to a mile square.
A piece of ground two miles square, however, contains
four square miles, and a piece three miles square equals
nine square miles. (2) We don't pretend to reconcile the
eighth commandment with the lifting of the ass de-
scribed in Mark XL 2. Perhaps the animal was only bor-
rowed. (3) How do we know what made Satan first go
wrong ? Possibly he took to drink. (4) We don’t answer
conundrums about Adam till somebody proves there ever
was any such person. We have always looked upon him
as the Mrs. Harris of Genesis “ P.D.W.” : We decline
to vouch for the bona fides of any such institution....
“ Incog ” (Tamworth): Your poetry is too awful for
human contemplation “W.S.L.”; The population of
New Zealand at the end of June was 645,834
“ W.L.”: The Irishwomen are virtuous, anyhow. The
unexampled steadiness exhibited by the many thousands
of working women of the Irish peasant-class who enter
“ service ” in America and Australia is surely not “ in
spite of their religion.” We are not aware that anyone of
the Christian creeds teaches women to be immoral....
“ Hadvance llaustralia” (Yea): There is plenty of litera-
ture just like it in N.S.W “ J.A.T." (Sydney); Many
thanks “ Siadbone ” : Will consider “Girondin”:
Held over “ C.8.H.”: Excellent “ J.F.H.” :
Thanks.... “ L.E.S.” :It is not likely that Parkes will sell
or lease the N.S.W. tramways unless the transaction
guarantees a much larger profit to the State than the
tramways are now making. As to your second paragraph,
we have only to point out that as Sir Henry Parkes is an
open advocate for the abolition of capital punishment, he
would, no doubt, like to deal mercifully with every case
that came before him. So probably would Governor
Carington, but the pair happen to be so wedded to what
they are pleased to term "constitutionalism” that any
improvement in the management of these matters need
not be expected while the law remains in its present state.
The Executive is not a body which can safely be entrusted
with the sifting of evidence, and no court of criminal ap-
peal which is not composed of men accustomed to
judicially analyse evidence is worth a rush “Bush
Rat” (N.Q.); Do you really expect us to print such a
yarn? —“Inquisitive Ignoramus”: The law being for
the most part administered in the interests of capital the
people pay the military, and the capitalists get the benefit
of the soldiers’ services.
The Newcastle Miners’ Strike.
The Bulletin acknowledges the receipt of the
following subscriptions on behalf of the New-
castle miners The shearers of Dunlop Station
£l6 9s. 6d. ; Pugh, £1 ; Miner, Is. ; Volunteer,’
2s. 6d. Total, £l7 13s.
The deepest known reef of gold-bearing
quartz in Australia has just been discovered at
Sandhurst, Victoria, the depth being 2430 ft.
Lives of loose men still remind us
We can go the pace that kills,
And departing leave behind us
Nothing but a lot of bills.
An Irishman thus delivered himself at
Broken Hill on the water question “ Well you
see, we burned Abigail, and a half-inch of’ rain
fell. If we only burn Parkes we’ll be flooded out,
bejabers.”
A gentleman who has lately treated his
horse with Marshall’s Tonic Nervine writes to
state that the animal has now more muscle than a
steam engine. He wants to back it to shift
Sydney Post Office with one grand hoist, but
the authorities have declined to bet.
The “Flying Scotchman,” running between
London and Edinburgh, has recently beaten the
record. It steamed the distance between Crewe
and Preston—s2J miles—in fifty minutes, and did
the run from Preston to Carlisle—9o miles—in
ninety minutes, and the whole journey of 400 miles
inside 8 hours, including stoppages. If Mr Eddv
ca “ .Bive in N.S.W. a velocity equal to half ®
we 11 Jmink him sufficiently important to be digni-
fied by'the appellation of “Whirlpool.”
CORRESPONDENCE
Cricket is about done for in N.S.W. as an
attraction to the public; the games take too long,
and are so dismally slow to watch. One goes out
to Sydney Association ground and spends an
afternoon watching three or four men give what
the papers next day call “a masterly exhibition of
careful batting,” but which is the most wretched
of performances to look at. Ball after ball comes
down, and the careful batsman either steps for-
ward and calmly and methodically smothers it, or
draws back deliberately and stops it; occasionally,
by some fluke or other, it goes where there are no
fieldsmen and runs are obtained. A cricket-
match, _now-a-days, lasts through several genera-
tions, like a Chinese play. Hundreds of expe-
dients have been suggested for shortening the
fames and making them more lively, but none have
een adopted. One crank invented a magnificent
scheme : he_ suggested that if the bowlers could bowl
five successive maiden overs, i.e., overs off which no
runs or wickets were obtained, one of the batsmen
should go out. This promised to liven things up,
because after playing two or three maiden overs
the batsman would begin to think it was time to
“ shake her up a bit.” He confided this scheme
to that first-class bowler, Tom Garrett, and
Garrett said : “ It would not do at all. I could
bowl five overs running so that no batsman in the
world could score off them.” The inventor then
met Sammy Jones and laid the plans and specifi-
cations before him: “No good at all,” said
Sammy ; “ no bowler in the world could bowl five
overs_ running without one being able to get a run
off him.” This looked rather well for the scheme;
but the cricket authorities in N.S. Wales appear
to think that no change is needed. In England
they are constantly urging some reform to shorten
the games somewhat. If they don’t make the
games shorter and more lively they can put up
the shutters, because there are so many attractions
now-a-days that there are plenty better things to
do than go and watch an afternoon’s “ careful
batting.”
• •
The advent of an aquatic championship
race ever brings to the front a pack of individuals
to whom a boat-race, so far as pure love of the
sport is concerned, had previously no charms.
When Hanlan arrived in Australia in the zenith
of his glory, the Jaynil Dan, Aloock, Watson, and
a host of others suddenly took a violent attach-
ment to a sport for which they were not known to
have ever previously cared a rush; the Jaynil as
suddenly lost his interest in the same on the ad-
vent of Jack Burke, the slogger, to whom he at
once transferred his patronage, Kemp, as a
champion, has, of course, raised the usual field of
mushrooms.
* * *
The so-called consultations are playing the
mischief with the Australian turf by reason of
their promoters divulging the names of the
holders of horses to the owners. These latter
almost invariably threaten to “stiffen” their
mokes unless laid so much to nothing about their
horses by their ticket-holders, from whom they
in each case exact an order upon the sweep-maker
for the amount in the event of a win. One would
think the sweep-promoters made enough out of
the persons who pass their money through their
hands without “giving them away ”-to the black-
mailing owners.
• * *
John L. Sullivan was holding a coin for a
man to shoot at, when the shootist smashed a
couple of the bruiser’s fingers in place of the coin.
* • *
According to the Argus, “ Hanlan put up
his hand to claim a fowl ” during his race with
Kemp. They were evidently rowing past a hen-
roost.
• » *
Godfrey, the darkey pug., who was badly
beaten by Peter Jackson in San Francisco, appears
to be something of a wag. After the fight his
friends asked him how he felt. Godfrey replied
that he was “feeling just as any man would who
had received several hard thumps.”
* • *
The Doncaster St. Leger was won by
Lord Galthorpe’s Seabreeze, in accordance with
the cld English turf axiom that September is
“ the mare’s month.” Seabreeze thus follows in
the track of Formosa, Apology, Hannah, Marie
Stuart, and a dozen others of the sex, by winning
the familiar double event—Oaks and St. Leger.
Zanzibar, who finished third, is also a filly.
• * •
A truss for straightening crooked noses is
amongst the latest novelties in the way of sur-
gical instruments. It will be much required by
the time Peter Jackson has finished his punching-
tour.
• • *
Little Gorry, according to present arrange-
ments, will ride Don Giovan in the Caulfield Cup,
but that cherubic youth has lately been so seldom to
the fore that “Gorry’s mount ” is quite out of the
fashion.
* * #
The Charmer, if she starts for the Caulfield
Cup, will surprise those who haven’t seen her
since she last appeared in public. This mare has
grown into a real Charmer, a sweet thing in
equines, and if Sam Cook has anything better, at
the weights, in his stable then is the race all over
as it were—in a manner so to speak.
• * •
When the Sixth Australian Eleven record
is calmly and deliberately studied it will appear
that Our Boys played in a fairly consistent man-
ner whenever the ground permitted a reliable
exhibition of all-round cricket. On unsoddened
turf they failed to make decent scores against
amateur or second-rate professional bowling, their
two feeblest performances in this connection being
those with Gloucestershire. The one great ghastly
collapse of the tour was the first innings against
All England at Manchester.
* • •
Apropos oi the recent race for the sculling
championship, it is recorded that an interesting
scullmg event took place some years ago between
Mr. H. D, Russell, now Secretary of the Sydney
Infirmary, and Mr. Bennett, an elderly oarsman
who once ran a George-street hostelry. In re-
sponse to an airy challenge from Mr. Russell, Mr.
Bennett, who was many years senior to the former
gentleman, agreed to meet him on the Parramatta
on a given day in best and best boats for a small
wager. “The boys,” who knew that Mr. Russell
was somewhat vain of his powers as a waterman,
had artfully hung a big kerosene-tin full of water
to the stern of his skiff (we are not sure whether
they had not also attached a 5-gallon kerosene-tin
to the bow, so as to balance things), and when the
signal was given, Bennett absolutely romped away
from his youthful opponent, who afterwards as-
cribed his defeat to the fact that he didn’t feel
very fresh that day, and that “ somehow or other
his boat seemed to have no life in it—it seemed to
have lost its buoyancy ; besides, anyway, it was a
heavier boat than the other, and a strong tide had
to be pulled against.” However, the vanquished
man accepted his defeat with a good grace, and the
party went off together and took some lemonade,
after which Mr. Russell intimated his desire to
change boats and row over the course again. The
offer was accepted, and the boys having of course
surreptitiously transferred the kerosene-tins to the
other boat, Mr. Russell once more got left.
♦ •
The visit of Vernon’s English team last
season cost ihe Melbourne Cricket Club just
£3582. This is paying for the luxury of English
gentlemen with a vengeance.
* #
Ivo Bligh thinks a really representative
Australian Eleven would beat a representative
All-England Eleven in a test match.
* •
The only thing doing in the sporting
world of late has been the annual sale of race-
horses last week by Mr. Clibborn. Things were
dull as ditchwater, very little bidding, and poor
prices.
• ♦ ♦
A certain “amateur” boxer, who is said
to be aiming at the amateur championship of Aus-
tralia, can be seen any day at work in a Sydney
butcher’s shop. We hope he does not expect to
make a chopping-blcck of Mr. Geo. Searle. He
ought to know all about upper-cut and “chops,”
and, if it suets him to have a try at it, we think
he ought to win the steaks.
Starle had little difficulty in disposing of
Hughes, and it is impossible to say how gocd he
is unless Kemp decides the question. The latter
possesses a great advantage, as the Clarence River
sculler is comparatively a young man, and has
lately gone through a lengthy course of training
which would try the most seasoned constitution.
Kemp’s people had an eye to this in fixing the
date of the match.
Bendoff and J. Burke are matched to box.
We are willing to bet that the affair ends in a
draw.
♦ • •
The relatives of Mr. Seddon, Captain of
the English football team, who was recently
drowned up North, are indignant at the parsimony
or indifference of the managers and members of
the team, who, it appears, did not take the trouble
of sending home a cablegram notifying the sad
occurrence!
They are bringing coal to Newcastle now.
A representative of the firm of Moet and
Chandon comes to Australia to see whether cham-
pagne cannot' be made here. We now hope to
find the Scotch whisky-distillers sending out to
see how the back-blocks publican makes bis
Mountain Dew.
A prominent Australian Orange politician
advertises in a metropolitan paper lor a “ Good
general servant. Protestant preferred ; no wash-
ing.” We have looked at the politician several
times since reading this little notice, but he was
always so closely buttoned up that it was difficult
to tell why there is “no washing ” in that house.
Perhaps there never is any washing there at all,
or possibly it is given out to a cheap, misguided
Papist who works at her own home.
An ancient male landmaik named Plum-
mer, residing at Wellington, N.Z., propounds a
new and valuable method of utilising the de-
parted. By means of a patent process of his own
he mixes up a large, dead corpse with road-metal,
cement, fine sand, and ordinary gravel, and con-
verts it into a block of concrete, and when this
petrified object has stood in the sun for a month
or two and become hard it furnishes admirable
building material. Plummer expects to make his
pile out of this invention, but we have our doubts.
That fine old literary man Richard Birnie,
M. A., Barrister-at-Law, died the other day at Mel-
bourne, where he had lived for 30 years, at the
age of 80. He was a son of Sir Richard Birnie,
the well-known Bow-street Police Magistrate,
who took part in the arrest of the Cato-street
conspirators in 1820, and a flavour of those ancient
days seemed to hang about Richard Birnie,
junior, to the last. The deceased gentle-
man, who was the “ Essayist ” of the
Australasian, was a most interesting con-
versationalist, as might readily be imagined of
one endowed with so marvellous a memory and so
great a gift of literary expression. For many
years he lived in very humble style in a back
street of the Southern capital and feasted on “the
memories of the days that were.” He was a pro-
nounced gourmet and a friend of Marcus Clarke,
who used to tell some most amusing stories about
the old man.
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Caulfield Cup, run 25th October, 1888. 6,000
Subscribers of 10s. each. First Horse, £1,000;
Second, £500; Third, £250 ; Starters, £250; Non-
Starters, £250 (to be divided amongst
them). 100 Cash Prizes of £5 each ; 100 Cash
Prizes of £2 10s. each. The Melbourne Cup,
Run November 6, 1888. 10,000 subscribers at 20s 1
each. First horse, £4000; Second, £2000; Third]
£lOOO ; Starters, £7OO ; Non-Starters, £BOO (to be
divided amongst them); 25 Cash Awards of £2O
each; 25 Cash Awards of £lO each; 100 Cash
Awards of £7 10s, each. In this event there are
four separate drawings—lst, the horse, then each
of the money prizes, which reduces the odds of a
prize to about ten to one. Also, one of the Mel
bourne Cup, 10,000 subscribers of 10s. each, with
the same number of prizes as in the above event,
of just half the value. Subscribers are particularly
requested to adhere strictly to the address at foot,
and register all letters, and apply early, so that
the fortunate drawers of horses may have time to
hedge. Enclose two stamped addressed envelopes,
for replyand result. Address “ Australia,” care
of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria Cafe Hotel, near
General Post Office, George-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. —“ The Tomboy ” p. 14.
Her Majesty’s. —“ Hamlet ”
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy ~
Criterion. —“ Sithors to Grind ” „
“The Tomboy ” at Sydney Royal was well
received last Wednesday, and the rush of break-
ages which forms the strong point of this alleged
drama aroused much applause. “The Tomboy,”
in its literary aspect, consists of an attenuated
thread of improbable story which feebly binds
together the fragments of a world that is fast
being kicked to pieces by Carrie Swain’s flying
feet, and as that feminine whirlwind gyrates
through the wilderness of the four acts her celerity
makes the spectator grow dizzy with amazement,
until at last he retires with a maze of disconnected
incidents tearing through his brain, and over-
shadowing and eclipsing them all a vision of two
heels attired in large smashed boots eternally
vanishing round a thousand corners and yet never
getting away. These two unkempt feet which
slope at a ceaseless acute angle across the stage are
pretty nearly the only circumstances acl ually essen-
tial to the drama which are sufficiently portable to
be carried away ; and they follow us home, and in
our slumbers we watch them trot through the base-
less fabric of our dreams and dodge round the sharp
corners of the nightmares which float around in
the hours of darkness. Excepting the divine
Carrie herself there is nothing in the “Tomboy”
which is worth criticism. Without any aids
beyond a mass of miscellaneous tatters which form
her attire as a harassed American slavey, a drift-
ing cloud of golden hair, a tank, a magnificent
voice, and the boots already mentioned she makes
herself a success of the first magnitude, and if
necessary she could dispense with the tatters, the
boots, the tank, and even the hair, and win fame
and fortune with her voice alone. She can hang
on to a note longer than any other two ladies we
know of, and many successful operatic artistes
who have made a speciality of this branch of
industry would faint beneath the strain which she
endures, and would want some one to take
the other end of the note, and very probably would
require to have it shored up in the centre as well.
Yet, when Miss Swain has finished, the note is as
good as new, and instead of falling down with a
shriek at the close and splitting into three pieces,
it passes the winning-post without turning a hair.
Mr. JohnForde, in the capacity of a youthful
gasfitter, also lends some excellent music, but the
“ Tomboy ” affords little scope for acting of any
kind. The inner workings of the drama are con-
ducted somewhere else, and Carrie, after appear-
ing as a frozen outcast in a park in the third act,
commences the fourth as a young lady with much
property and a large appetite. Probably the cir-
cumstances which led to the change were con-
ducted in a lawyer’s office, or some jlace of a
similar character, and as Carrie could not smg and
kick the title-deeds all over the place in this scene
without too great a sacrifice of sense and proba-
bility, these details have been left to the imagina-
tion.. But Miss Swain’s voice and her reckless-
ness with regard to the tank make the public for-
get this and other like omissions, and, so far,
affairs look promising, and the tattered pocket
which the “Tomboy” carries in the hinder part
of her dilapidated skirt threatens to break down
beneath the burden of the public coppers.
#* # *
Mr, George Leitcb, author, comedian,
&c,, made a new appeal to the unimpressionable
Cornstalk race at Sydney Criterion last Saturday,
and the applause which greeted “ Sithors to
Grind ” suggested that the whole city possesied
only one tail, and that the end of it had fallen
into something hot. The interest centres chiefly
in a certain bald old hero with a tender soul who
repairs knives and patches umbrellas, and is his
own charwoman between whiles—-a person pos-
sessed of a feelin’ ’art, though he owns no hand-
kerchief with which to mop up the emotions which
fill the stoke-hole of his inner man, and who is
always ready to spend his last copper in the pur-
chase of a bloater for a British female in distress.
The humble home in which his daughter lost the
use of her legs in early life on account of fever, is
situated in a back street, butitis kept as clean as the
old man can manage without the aid of his specta-
cles which have dropped into the milk, where they
are afterwards found by his niece whom he doesn t
know anj thing about not having heard of her be-
fore, though he has unconsciously repaired her
umbrella for ninepence in the days when she lived
in the marble halls of the rich and the great. Her
arrival brings light and gladness into the cottage
where her uncle is trying to polish the fender
with blacking, and a lord comes into the premises
head-first after her and lays his heart at her feet
accompanied by a stepmother carrying a soup-
ticket and an order for coals, who afterwards loses
her money through the collapse of the bank where
she bad deposited the coin which didn’t belong to
her. This lady is mistaken for the Queen of Sheba
and is asked to leave in a rage. After this the
simple happiness of the little household is cnly
interrupted by the foolishness of a large son of
toil who makes the girl without the use of her
legs wish that she were dead, and during the 12
months which follow he appears to close up his
business premises and wail in a long coat. Even
this drawback is ultimately removed, however,
for just as the lady, who was supposed to be the
Queen of Sheba, is about to marry her third
husband, her second husband returns and informs
her that her first husband is still alive, and thus
the soup-ticket recoils with appalling violence on
herself, and the order for coals is heaped upon her
own head; and at the same time the man who
had so cruelly injured the girl without the use of
her legs stands in the kitchen and hears a conver-
sation while the cook is out drinking, which leads
him to repent, and the lord already mentioned
rushes him up and down in the snow and utters
moral truths in his large, red ear. The lady
malefactor with the coals and the soup-ticket and
the two husbands and the attempt at a third one
drifts out of the story for ever, and when last seen
she is walking as if she didn’t intend to stop
for a long time. These few simple re-
marks are intended to convey the fact that
“Sithors to Grind” is a glittering drama in
which deep pathos and frantic comedy are mingled
together and tied up in a knot, and Saturday’s
audience endorsed this view by now and then
dropping a silent tear and howling with inextin-
guishable mirth the rest of the time. Mr. Leitch
pervades the piece as the bald person who grinds
cutlery and repairs umbrellas, and his joyousness
is a lesson to many citizens who still wear their
hair on the place where ihe wool is accustomed to
grow. Miss Myra Kemble, who has of late dis-
appointed her admirers on more than one occa-
sion, plays her part with all the talent and energy
by which her reputation was originally built, and
the rest of the action depends on Mr. A. R. Law-
rence, Misses Ida Herbert and Brenda Gibson,
a knife-grinding machine, a broken frying-pan, a
burnt pancake, and a table-cloth with a rent in
the middle, all of which are up to the high-water
mark of excellence.


Why be without fish when, by having one of
our Fish-Traps, you can have plenty ? Eastway s,
411 George street, Sydney.
PERFECT HEALTH!
Secured by drinking reliable Old Wlnea from
Hookings 410 (leorge Street, near King Street
Everybody Bays—and wbat everybody Bays most be tone
—that Pemell’e Snow-whiti Piiwr Roi.lm Fi-otts Is the
Vi*st I" the
£JOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
The Popular Pleasure Resort.
Visited Daily by Large and Fashionable Audiences.
Saturday Next—Great Holiday Programme,
Including the Musical Marve 6,
Who will introduce
ful Peats—extract-
{FAUST!}
New and Wonder-
mg- MUSIC from
anything and everything
MONDAY-EIGHT HOURS’ DEMONSTRATION.
Monster Holiday Attraction
Amusements from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Great
Variety Entertainment on the Stage in
the main hall. A Full Band will
perform during the day.
Special provision made for Picnic parties. Trams will
run at short intervals.
Kemember!
Positively no Extra
Mice!
will'be 01
The magnificent Swimming Baths, which have
been greatly improved at considerable expense
be OPENEDon SUNDAY NEXT. P
Admission, Is. j Children, 6d. No Extra Charge
A. 1, STOPFORD, Manager,
The melancholy Prince of Denmark was
well filled on his appearance at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and an audience which had come with
vague ideas of dead cats in its soul was gradually
converted to admiration. Mr. Miln, the
American tragedian, proved, on public produc-
tion, to be a small man with a tendency to cor-
pulence, but his rendering of Hamlet was in
most respects a good one, and the crowd which
had opened the proceeding! with an inclina-
tion to hoot gradually realised that royal
families are seldom eight feet in an up-
ward direction, and that a large quantity of
monarch is not necessarily a blessing. Mr.
Miln hai a melodious voice and a countenance
that was built for tragedy, and he has them both
with him when he appears on the stage. Ophelia,
the gentle, colourless girl on whom so many tears
have been wasted, was executed by Miss Louise
Jordan, who brought a pretty face, a graceful
figure, a pleasant voice, and a moderate amount
of ability to bear upon the character, and she
promises to become a general favourite when
she appears in some part better calculated to
touch the souls of the muscular footballers of
Australia. The rest of the company presents
several features of profound interest. Mr. J. H.
Jewett looks every inch a king, as kings used ti
look before they began to drink and to stay out
late at night, and to go round with short-skirted
girls from the ballet. Mr. Sterling Whyte is an
admirable driveller of state in his position as
the aged and dense Polonius, and the Ghost
—Mr. Chari-s Hall being the spectre on duty
—is up to our ideas of what a ghost ought
to be. There is no ghost in our family, but if we
are ever able to set up one we will hire Mr. Hall
to wander on the battlements on moonlight nights
when ghosts are on the job. Further, Mr. J. R
Greville is a pleasant grave-digger, and the
scenery is lavish and built up with a noble disre-
gard of the high prices charged for paint and
varnish. “ Hamlet ” will probably last some time
at Her Majesty’s.
*♦ * *
A dispirited and agitated-looking com-
pany that nobody seemed to have ever heard of
before rose quite unexpectedly in Sydney
Academy on Monday night, and played “ J un on
the Bristol” before anybody had time to stop
them. The company ranged from W. MTherson
down to Fergus O’Riley, and another gentleman
who was understood from the advertisement to
have some connection with the show walked about
outside and disclaimed all responsibility. The
famous Italian count who used to bring down the
house with a shriek when Knight Aston spread him-
self over the character, was played by a young man
with an overcoat, who struggled a good deal with
his hat and sang common metre of a dreadfully
common description, and then backed in a
half-fainting condition to a seat. Nora O’Bree-on
and Dora M'Allister sat on hard chairs in a corner
most of the time, with a look of apprehension on
their countenances as if they feared they would
presently be called upon to say something, and
when they were required to rise and speak the
funereal melancholy of these gushing girls sug-
gested that they had recently been spanked while
under chloroform. They both wore brown
clothes, and sat with their hands hang-
ing down. Tommy Cranberry and Richard
Sparks mixed their dialogue up on board the
Bristol until it appeared that they were both
eloping with the one girl, and they hadn’t strength
enough to sort matters out again, and the Widow
O’Brien was played by MTherson, who was a
little better than the others, but had a tendency to
leap out of his garments. Professor Barnardo,
"the world-famed ventriloquist,” appeared on
the stage with two dolls and attempted to throw
his voice, after which he left in confusion, his
appearance having lasted at least four minutes.
Miss Carlin’s singing was the one good
feature in the show. Scenery was almost en-
tirely wanting, a fact which was explained by
the following earnest statement in the bill:
The management wish to apologise lor not having
proper scenery; on account of to-day being a holiday
they could not procure it.
Horace Bent, who was announced to appear,
judiciously kept away; possibly, “on account of
to-day being a holiday ’ the management could
not procure him either, or perhaps .he could not
procure himself. A gentleman, who looked as if
he was responsible for the grammar displayed in
the bill, put his head in occasionally, but when
the company fell heavily about 10 o’clock he had
disappeared. He was heard uttering _ hollow
groans outside as late as 9.45, and his vanishment
a quarter of an hour later leads us to think that
the harbour ought to be searched with a rake tied
to the end of a clothes-line.
#* * *
The Crystal Palace Rink (Sydney) is to
blossom forth shortly in the last grand mas-
querade carnival of the season, and when that is
over the rinkers will probably adjourn for the hot
weather and take to bathing instead. Mean-
while, the Crystal Palace holds out by means of
cooling fountains and other appliances for re-
frigerating the perspiring rinker. A complimen-
tary benefit to Mr. Wyburd is fixed for the 31st.
* * ♦
The lady who represented Britannia in the
procession on the cold, wet day when Melbourne
Exhibition was opened, writes to state that she is
alive.
•* * ♦
On Tuesday next, Miss Amy Sherwin
gives the first of a series of five concerts at
Sydney Y.M.O.A. Hall. She will be supported
by Miss Mina Fischer, Mr,. Henry Stockwell,
Mr. Arthur Sherwin, Mr. Geo. Clutsam, and Mr.
John Lemmone. Miss Sherwin sails for England
by the Jumna from Brisbane on the 30th, and the
present will probably be her very last appearance
in N.S. Wales.
** * *
Some person who is probably deficient in
the five senses writes to ask if the “ person named
Lawrence and describing himself as an actor,
who was arrested for masquerading in female
attire at Melbourne Exhibition, is Mr. A. K.
Lawrence, of Sydney Criterion. We have no
positive information on the point ourselves, but as
the Lawrence who was arrested is in gaol in Mel-
bourne, and the other one is walking about loose
in Sydney, and as the two places are 500. miles
apart, the chances are that they are different
individuals altogether.
*♦ * *
Miss Carrie Swain is a young lady of Ger-
man extraction, and was born at Philadelphia in
1863. She began her artistic career 14 years ago
as a very small girl in a very small partin ' Corio-
lanus,” at a Californian theatre, Mr. J. C. Wil-
liamson being a member of the same company.
She has been in business as a star for five years,
her principal successes being in the “Tomboy
and the “ Miner’s Daughter. ’
At Melbourne Bijou the full strength of
the Brough and Boucicault company was diffused
over two new comedies last Saturday night, when
an improved electric light, manufactured on the
premises, brought this large occasion into peculiar
prominence. The opening passages of “In Honour
Bound ” were somewhat blurred and obliterated
by a tardy influx of fashionable creatures who
trod into their seats with measured beat and slow,
but in due course things assumed an intelligible
shape, and the murmurs of muttered darns died
away in dim distance. “In Honour Bound ”is a
short poem in one scene, adapted from the French
by a gentleman whose very name —Grundy—is
synonymous with respectability. It deals circum-
spectly with the fact that a married woman
cherishes a sickly regard for the wrong man until
she overhears something when nobody thought she
was present, from which time the social horizon
clears and all is as it ought to be. The slender
plot is strained and artificial, but it produces
a sweet firelit picture of sleeping beauty on a sofa.
Nothing could be better than Jhe performance of
Mr, Titheradge as the husband, for it is smooth,
round, and polished as a billiard-ball. The ver-
satile Boucicault plays the other man with un-
obtrusive force, and Miss Emma Temple fills in a
small part very daintily. And the native nice-
ness of Mrs. Robert Brough, as the wife who in-
clines towards a strange idol, forbids any sugges-
tion that she could afford to give her graceful
method a little more rope. A contemplated bal-
lad to this lady was strangled in its birth by the
discovery that her name rhymes best with tough,
gruff, and bluff. Mrs Brough is none of these
things.
** # *
“ In Chancery,” like all Pinero’s comedies,
is full of snappy dialogue and neat ideas. The
pervading idea, in this instance, is a man emerg
ing from a railway accident with no memories of
the past. His name, wife, child, home, and
business, are to him as things that never were,
and for two months he enjoys all the sensation of
a middle-aged man born again under a name
which gets into his pocket by mistake. He starts
his new life by becoming engaged “ to a broad,
expansive young woman,” until a brighter vision
appears to be his wife that he married before the
Electric p- t. c?
MISS CARRIE SWAIN
FROM A PHOTO. BY HOLM & CO.
railway accident, and in the course of following
up this unexpected bliss with a view to learning
who he used to be, the dazed entity finds his real
wife in mourning for the man he really was,
after which he is restored to his forgotten self.
Mr. Robert Brough is the mainstay of three
bright acts, and the centre of attraction. He re-
alises an extravagant possibility without ever try-
ing to force a laugh, and will shortly have worked
up this part into his biggest success. Mr. Anson
extracts some new fun from the old familiar Irish
father, and the ladies play sketchy characters
unanimously well. Mr. E. Rtanmaur becomes
rather a nuisance in a stupid character, which he
probably can’t help, and further comment is held
over. If the Bijou programme wants changing
for several weeks to come it will reflect upon the
people of a marvellous city, and something must
be done to them.
** * *
Mr. Alfred Dampier and Miss Lily (who
has grown since she last appeared in Melbourne)
received a lusty welcome at the Alexandra on
Saturday night, the assembled millions being
visibly of opinion that they were getting extra
value at reduced prices. The Dampier version of
“ His Natural Life ” comes as a boon and a bless-
ing after the spineless spectacle put up at the
local Royal two or three years ago. It
contains more go, more clanking convict,
and is more coherent throughout. The
Revd. North of Mr. D., whose make up is a
triumph of art, went home to the heart of every-
one who had a heart. Mr. Boothman also got
there at times, and the fairylike Miss Lily was
universally accepted as an inspired revelation.
The exact circumference of her willowy waist
formed a subject for excited debate between acts.
“ His Natural Life ” will fill the Alexandra for a
while and ought to establish the new season on a
firm basis.
** * #
“ The Mystery of a Hansom Cab,” which
is wandering round the country like a perturbed
spirit, turned up at Opera House on
Saturday, In one or two particulars the drama
seemed a trifle stronger than it was a few weeks
ago, but if it wasn’t it is of no importance. Other
shows keep alive, but with the five theatres in
full swing managers have to face the inevitable
troubles brought about by over production.
♦* * *
Up at the Princess’s there was a decidedly
sick attendance for “Twelfth Night, which
points to the conclusion that either Shakespeare
or Mias Essie Jenyna is temporarily under a cloud.
For some reason or other young Mr. Inman has
been dropped into the character of Malvolio, tor
which he is by nature and training ill-adapted.
The immediate effect of this change is to excite a
strange yearning for the return of Plain lull,
whom nobody ever expected to miss.
•* ♦ ♦
“ Hands Across the Sea ” creates a per-
petual push at the Royal, where even the dress-
circle is affected by distinguished identities
expecting to hear some beautiful sentiments
connected with Imperial Federation and the
Royal Family. James Service was lured into a
front seat last week, and it was_ painful to observe
his gathering disgust as he waited in vain for the
golden bonds which bind us, &c., to be drawn
closer. Even the British Flag episode didn t
work right on that occasion, therefore the trium-
virate are morally bound to return Mr, Service
his ss. The bawbees of that loyal citizen were
obtained under false pretences.
*♦ ♦ ♦
The orchestral concerts at Melbourne Ex-
hibition come and go without advancing the edu-
cation of the multitude to a degree worth men-
tioning. Sometimes the musical sanctuary is well
attended from first to last, and sometimes it is
pretty empty all the time, but in a general way
the harmony is incidentally sampled by a floating
population, which is there one ten minutes and
gone the next. On those exceptional occasions
when music is of an extremely educational
character, the audiences are large and demon-
strative. They have matriculated in long “ move-
ments ” and inclined their hearts to symphonies.
They form a little company apart looking down
from the proud elevation of higher culchaw upon
the uninstructed millions who don’t want to be
there. These faithful few have made it to appear
that symphonies are in much more violent demand
than light summer goods (gavottes, ballet-pieces,
or even opera-overtures) merely because they (the
f.f.) express joy, while the everyday mob receive
the ordinary performances with a satisfaction
more subdued than a funeral luncheon. The
Co wen clan very truly point out that “ Ruth
fills the hall and “ popular ” concerts do not. It
is a convincing argument until we remember that
a good nigger entertainment would fetch ’em best
of all. And yet the happy medium between
“ Ruth ” and “ Mother, tuck me in your bed,”
is a very palpable failure at the Exhibition.
Mr. Cowen is conducting concerts which in five
cases out of every six should afford pleasure to any
human bsing who possesses an ear, trained or
otherwise. Many of the selections positively
border on the volatile. Great composers are ex-
hibited in their most frivolous moods. But, for
some mysterious reason, the liveliest bits conclude
amidst a burst of silence, and induce about 20 per
cent of the listeners to depart in gloom. And
those who remain for one short hour are mostly
girls—yourg girls, with a tendency to get as near
the orchestra as possible. Each of the 60 instru-
mentalists has an average following of five
maidens, all striving to catch his eye. Another
hundred or two sit and watch the bald patch at
the back of Cowen’s head until he turns round in
his pulpit, when they all sigh together. Without
the support of those love-sick Phyllises of the
chorus (free-passers) most Exhibition concerts
would be neglected indeed. Tis a pity. Mr.
Cowen is now in Sydney.
** * *
Musical criticism, in certain Melbourne
papers, means one teacher of singing cutting up a
rival’s pupils. They say that a certain great con-
ductor tried to induce a certain vocalist to sue a
certain ponderous periodical for libel contained in
a certain notice of a certain concert, in which case
the whole Victorian Bar would have been engaged
in a deadly struggle with a Z flat. Unhappily,
the vocalist was not “ on,” and the inner
mechanism of musical critiques is still a profound
mystery to the general public.
** * #
At the Star Music Hall, Dublin, a young
man named Kenny has thrown himself over the
gallery railings, and alighted heavily upon the
head of a trombone player. Everyone remembers
the old yarn about a disturbance in this same Star
gallery. They were preparing to hurl one of the
bhoys over those same railings, when an imploring
voice cried, “Don’t waste him, darlints—kill a
fiddler wid him.”
** # *
“ Mr. Barnes of New York ” has not
found the Adelaide Royal at all an agreeable
place to make his appearance even for a short
week. Fergus Hume will be called in to
try and bring matters round by the aid of his
“ Hansom Cab Mystery.” The Jungfrau Kapelle
are doing very well at the Town Hall; in fact,
“jodelling” is likely to be introduced in the
churches, of which there is an abundance in Ade-
laide, the pastors of the various flocks having
taken a strong liking to the show. Hiscocks’ and
Friedman’s combination start a season at Garner’s
Theatre shortly.
** * *
A Brisbane Scotchman has knocked out
Coupeau in one act, and won a wager by swallow-
ing ten large nobblers of whisky, and then suck-
ing up a pint of beer through a straw. He is
still alive and thirsty, consequently “Drink” is
always bound to be viewed with incredulity in
Brisbane.
.AA. J/, ,V„ -V,
'Tv' 'A' -7v- *7v'
A Sydney paper remarks that George
Rignold and Stirling White are the best-washed
men in Sydney. But if a man is sterling white
why should he wash himself at all ?
jp Jl,
TV TT *7?*
A lawsuit is now proceeding In the Mel’J
bourne courts over the Opera House site in
Bourke-street. The land, which is now valued at
£lOO,OOO, was, some 30 odd years ago, leased with
a right to purchase for £5OO.
** # *
Mr. Jack Welsh, who returned to Sydney
recently, after a lengthened residence in New
Zealand, is now the oldest living Australian actor.
He served his noviciate at the shrine of Thespis in
the old Victoria Theatre in this city, in 1851, and
appeared with G. V. Brooke and all the leading
stars of the sixties and early seventies. The world
has not prospered with poor old Jack, who,
despite his hard luck, is as good a man as ever
breathed, and as genuine an actor as ever trod the
boards.
** * *
The “ whistling woman,” Mrs. Alice
Shaw, is a daughter of a New York ice-cream
man.
The New York Legislative Assembly have
passed a law forbidding any chemist to make up
more than once any prescription containing more
bhan one-fourth of a grain of opium or one-twen*
tieth of a grain of morphine without a special
order from the doctor who originally prescribed
the dose.
The great Spanish Cathedral, the descrip-
tion of which called forth one of the finest of Mr.
Dailey’s oratorical displays, is in ruins. On this
speech of Mr. Dailey’s, Kendall wrote what is, on
the whole, his most beautiful poem. A month or
so ago a main column gave way, and what was so
lately a wonder of the world is now a wreck.
By English Statute law it is larceny to steal
a dog, but felony to steal his collar. Thus, it is
only necessary to go before a magistrate to prose-
cute for the dog, but the prosecutor must go before
the County Court to get the collar. Judge Haw-
kins put an end to this last month by ruling that a
dog and his collar can be classed as ’‘goods.” The
same principle will apply in the case of a monkey
and an organ.
The new Chief Commissioner for N.S.W.
Railways is expected to commence work in a
few days, and is, it is said, to be untram
melled in his official duties by any political in-
trigues. Which assertion recalls a little incident
some 10 years ago. The then N.S.W. Govern-
ment—Lackey, we believe, was Works Minister
—sent to England for the best man procurable
as locomotive-engineer. We forget his name, but
he came, and a marked improvement was observ-
able in the particular department over which he
presided. A driver on the Northern line was re-
ported to the superintendent for some alleged
gross neglect of duty and was instantly dismissed—
it was said, rightly so. The man’s political
friends were up in arms at once, and the Minister
was so far “ got at,” or, to put it more politely,
influenced by “ proper representations,” that the
superintendmg-engineer was ordered to reinstate
the driver. The superintendent declined to act
upon the Minister’s instructions, pointing out
that as by virtue of his appointment he
had the sole control and responsibility he
of necessity was the best judge of what was for
the good of the service. The Minister im
mediately suspended this high officer for insubor-
dination, and kept him suspended for two months.
The driver was immediately re-instated, and
sooner than submit to such gross interference with
his management the locomotive superintendent re-
signed and went back to his old appointment on
one of the principal railways in the old country
where he was gladly welcomed. It remains to be
seen what Mr. Eddy’s experience will be. If Dr,
Cortis, M.P., is to be believed, the N.S.W. Rail-
way Department is just now what the “ Lands ”
used to be—the “refuge of the destitute,”


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW TAB
HOST FOPULA& LPB
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
lor the reception and systematic treatment ol patients cl
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff, for particular! apply to the lady Saperin-
tendents.
SWEET KOROMA, the New Perfume. Manu-
factured from the West Australian “ Boronia
Megistiguia,” Sold everywhere. Price 3s. 6d.,
ss. and 10s. Post Free to any address in
Australasia. Be sure you get the genuine,
FRANCIS LONGMORE, 138 Bourke-street East,
MELBOPBSE-
W. H. PALING & Go.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOUSE
FOB
Pianos, Organs, Rluslc,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the followln
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS:
UEBEL and LECHLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JULIUS FBURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever
fdiCturcd
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ez
celled at £36.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estey
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con*
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“ cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W.H. PALiNS i CO-. LM.
886 GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O*
Society
A mood of benevolent cynicism rather
than aught else prompted us to witness the depar-
ture of the Gaiety Company from Australia by
the s.s. Alameda, the other day ; but the spectacle
melted our cynicism into pity, and struck us as
one providing the world with a rare opportunity
for psychological musing. First came a long pro-
cession of solemn dudes with pants of faultless
cut, and bearing immense bouquets d’opera, the
brilliant colours of which looked almost garish—if
Nature’s flowers can be said to look garish in th
bright sunlight The stage bouquet, like th
average theatrical woman, should only be viewer
by gaslight. Poor dudes ! The supreme momen
of their lives had then arrived : the peculiarly
dlidish function of farewelling a covey of large
limbed Circes was to be performed. The solemr
swells formed in a line on the edge of the wharf
and, utterly oblivious to the banter of the fustian
clad Philistines, proceeded to make obeisance at th
fat calved shrine. The demoiselles appeared on dec]
and smiled sweetly on their devoted admirers, who
though looking a little sheepish at being brought
face to face with their divinities in daylight
adored for all they were worth. Presently one
bolder than the rest hurled his bouquet at Nellie
barren's little pink ear and made that shell-like
auricular several shades pinker. Then the lesser
lights in the masculine throng fired a volley o
waxen-looking flowers and sickly fragrance at the
pirouetting Thespians, who smiled the weary smile
of those “ who bad been there before.” At this
juncture pretty Marion Hood came forward to
th) bulwark, looking as sweetly innocent as a
Xa,te Greenway arcadian. On her arm was
basket full of marguerite daisies which she rainec
on the crowd at her feet, while the dudes
squirmed and struggled and “bai-joved” anc
perspired in their frantic endeavours to secure one
precious little souvenir. And when Nellie Parren
divested herself of her taking little hat and threw
it amongst the panting throng their cup of happi
ness was filled to the brim. That hat! Who
has it now ?
* • •
Heigho ! As the young men with the weak
chins and receding foreheads cast their expensive
offerings at the feet of the Circe s, it occurred to us
that there was an analogy between the amateur
poem that goes through the editorial sanctum anc
these floral tributes. The Hpring poet and the
lank-limbed dude are of a kind, and Nellie Parren
and her consccuts “edited” the “little efforts’
of their contributors as ruthlessly as the most cold-
blooded newspaper man who ever sat on a gin-case
and wrote on his knee by the light of a tallow
candle stuck in a porter-bottle. Glanced at and
cast into the W.P.B. of forgetfulness ! And what
were the thoughts of Nellie Barren as she calmly
surveyed the serried ranks and amatory glances of
her spindle-legged oglers ! Perhaps at the bottom
of her dear old grandmotherly heart she felt that a
quarter of a century ago she might have had a feel-
ing of interest in the demonstration. Even a
Ninon de I’Enclos could not feel voung at forty.
And as for Marion Hood —well, speaking of Marion
Hood we are somehow reminded that the Marquis
of Qaeensberry will meet the company at Hono-
lulu.
•
When will the dude learn that in the
hands of the stage beauty he is only as a bank-
note which passes through the deft fingers of the
bank-teller ? “ Five, 10, 20, 50, a hundred, a
thousand,” says the teller, as he slaps down the
precious flimsies, which, not being his own pro-
perty, but that of the bank directors, are, as far
as he is personally concerned, mere valueless
counters. “O, you darlings P says that same
bank-teller as at the end of the month he pockets
the 20 sovereigns which compose his own little
screw. “ Five, 10, 50, a thousand, a million !"
remarks the burlesque actress as she handles and
flatters and humbugs and bleeds the precious
flimsies with collars high as sheep-hurdles who
swarm around her like flies round a jam-pot.
“ O, you darling !” says she, as she hugs the neck
of the man who is her very own.
* * *
A painful sort of flunkey writes to a
Wellington (N.Z.) paper complaining that the
Mayors of small places “ hold the same titles as
the Mayors of such large towns as Wellington,
Auckland, &c., and suggesting that “ the title of
‘ His Right Worshipful the Mayor,’ as is held by
the Mayors of Sydney and Melbourne, should
also be held by the Mayors of the four large
centres of population.” Why, certainly ! Or,
why not give the large variety of Mayors the
K.C.M.G,, and call them Knightmares ?
•• . *
The secretary of the Melbourne Gas
Co. has come forward, with an air of injured in-
nocence, to crush all who insinuated that his bloated
monopoly was turning the coal-strike into a further
blessing for the lucky shareholders. He begs to
inform the public generally that the Gas Co. has
the power, “under the provisions of its Act”-
that grand old Act!—-to make an extra charge for
gas proportionately to the average price which it
pays for coal. The present extra charge of hs. per
thousand feet, is proportionate and strictly accord-
ing to that blessed Act. What we now want to
know is whether the whole working expenses of
the Company salaries, cost of gas-pipes, stoves,
&c., labourers' wages, stationery and sundries—
have risen with the price of coal ? Because other-
w.ls® those proportionately-increased returns must
yield a few per cents, of dividend over and above
the modest 18 per cent, usually wrung from con-
sumers. And as the Act fixes no mini mum or
maximum price for gas, how can it empower an
eafra charge? Finally, is not the Melbourne
Metropolitan Company a Barabbas?
* * *
A verdant young creature calling himself
Bachelor Clerk, tells his sad story of impecunious
passion to a Melbourne paper. It appears that he
visits at one house in particular “ where he loves,
and is beloved by, the daughter.” But as the
miserable capitalist whose ledgers he keeps re-
fuses to behave like a man and a brother in the
matter of salary, Bachelor Clerk will be compelled
to avoid that one house in particular, thereby
‘Causing unmistakable sorrow to the daughter.”
Ha! ha! We have driven dozens of daughters
to the verge of despair, and we confidently advise
this young man not to take on too severely. There
is nothing so recuperative as the crushed spirit of
an affect.onate girl, alwaj s excepting the mangled
heart of bCr chap. Don’t worry, Bachelor Clerk
Just at first she will hang wistfully over the
garden gate, watching for your dear familiar form
in the gloaming, and wondering why it isn’t there.
Soon one of yottr faithful chums will come along
and she will talk with him all about you- -nothing
btit you. Then he will turn the conversation
towards the subject of himself, after which she
will dry her tears on his moustache, and they will
both be, O ! so happy.
° • €»
One of the gilded Brassey’a daughters—
the Hon. Mies M. A, Brassey—Great Heavens !
not Mary Anne we hope?—has been scoring
heavily in a ladies’ cricket match. Miss Brassey
played for the eleven which contained most titles,
ope of her colleagues being Lady Idna Nevill,
sister to the pallid young noble who was formerly
aide to Sir Henry Loch and afterwards turned
Roman Catholic. Lady Loch was quite upset
WHY THESE TEARS !
“Well, you see the Alameda has sailed with the London Gaiety Company on
board, and there’s nothing left for a fellah to live for, bai Jove!”
when she heard about it —Lord Nevill’s conversion,
not the cricket match. Her Ladyship does not
approve of those very unfeminine exhibitions, all
the same.
* • *
The Melbourne Charity Organisation
Society is getting on like a house a-fire. Four
new subscribers joined last month and the number
of applicants for relief showed a distinct falling off
But what the Society wants is more subscribers
and no applicants for relief at all. Then they will
have a heavy feed to celebrate the suppression of
poverty in our midst.
» * *
In a pawnbroking conspiracy case at Mel-
bourne, the other day, there were several de-
fendants, and one of these, a handsome woman,
was not put into the box. “Ah !;” exclaimed the
counsel for the defence, “you dare not call her;.
you know that she’s a good-looking woman, and
that there would be no earthly chance of a con-
viction.” ’Twas ever thus. That counsel had the
Melbourne men where their hair is short.
• * «
Melbourne, now that the exploits of Mr.
Gordon Lawrence have partially come to light,
Claims the proud,distinc‘i m of being the wickedest
city in the colonies, and doesn’t half try, then.
*
At present Melbourne seems to be like
heaven, in so far that, sa in heaven, so in Mel-
bourne, there is no marrying or giving in mar-
riage. But everybody seems to ba complaining of
it, and the papers teem with correspondence on
the subject, and showing how to remedy the
matter. All of which goes to prove that, as jet,
Melbournites are not fit for heaven.
* * *
Said a leading light of Sydney society the
other mr taring > “ Bai Jove, I’ve lost my eyeglass,
and when a fellah loses his eye-glass he can’t look
for it properly, doncherknow.” A sentiment
which strikes us as being quite worthy of Lord
Dundreary in his very best days.
• • •
Apropos of eye-glasses, the best speech at
the Barren farewell supper in Sydney was made
by a man with an eye glass. Said Nellie to him
next day : “Oh, Mr. Eyeglass, whai an eloquent
speech you made last night!” “Ah,” replied
George, with teats in his voice, “upon such a
subject I could be eloquent for ever.” How very
obvious.
We notice that the sassiety scribesses of
the Sydney daily papers are now “right on the
job” in mairufactuHng hyphenated names for the
aristocracies of the Points. Mrs. Stimpson-
Smythe, or something of the sort, has now
appeared upon the scene. Next week, we trust,
will witness the advent of Mrs. Delancy-Bitggins.
* * *
The Stimpson-Smythes are well to the fore
just now at the Inhibition of “Women’s Indus
tries ” in Sydney in aid of dear Lady Carington’s
Jubilee Fund. At this show, we learn, a promi-
nent attraction is the exhibit of a “table-napkin
made from yarn spun by Queen Victoria, and
specially lent to this exhibition by Lady Caring-
ton through the Countess of Rosebery.” The
genealogy of a napkin ! The pedigree of a towel!
Henceforth we must all know these people as the
Napkin Noblesse.
* • •
Men are bad enough, but if you want a
first-class, Al, 22-carat, gilt-edged, cream-laid
snob you must look among the women. You
won’t have to look far.
His Excellency and Lady Loch held
severely aloof from the opening of the new Prince’s
Bridge, Melbourne a ceremony which ulti-
mately resolved itself j into a dozen mayors in
seedy carriages and a cold collation. The black
social fri st that prevailed is traceable to a cause
that dates back into the long ago, when the con-
tractor didn’t invite his august Governor to lay
the foundation-stone of this public work in ac-
cordance with ihe best traditions of the Empire.
From that time forth his Excellency and Lady
Loch declined to officially recognise that there
was a bridge. Sassiety in general, not to men-
tion Duncan Gillies also, consequently ignored
the undertaking. But the bridge has become a
tangible reality, and will teach the lesson to
future generations that the smiles or frowns of
vice-regality are immaterial to the traffic, and
have no appreciable effect on cold granite.
* * *
The Manly Council have decided to
strenuously oppose the construction of a switch-
back railway on the ocean beach. The Manly
Council is right. Such things tend to utterly
destroy the charm of a watering-place like “the
t illage.” You might as well have a switchback-
railway in the Botanic Gardens. The people who
go to Manly Beach don’t want a switchback-
railway, they want a quiet time. Switchback-
railways are less adapted to Manly than they are
to Paddy’s Market.
• * •
\ Mr. J. L. Purves, Q.C., recently declared
in Court that “We are all wicked,” and now all
Australia is wondering in what sense he meant it,
aud whether it’s true. Mr. Purves doubtless
meant it in a Pickwickian sense. It will go down
to posterity as a companion line to, and an en
dorsement of, Lady Mordant’s famous remark
My dear, everybody does it.” And like
Mordant s remark, Mr. Purves’ cynical sentence
is a “ free lunch ” for anyone to construe as the
please. But its esoteric significance who can in
terpret ?
• , #
Here is a woeful wail from the agony
column of Dibbs’ delight, the Sydney Daiia
TELEGRAPH
. a Christian Lidy.—Wanted, by young married man,
in good posicioi), partial board and lodging with Christiai
lady who will advise and direct him in his merita
troubles. Musical, no other male boarders. “ Driver
from home, forsaken Protestant. Address, “Hope’
Park-street P.O.
“No other male boarders ” sounds as if this for
saken young married man would be better suited
in the 27 bosoms of a Mormon instead of a Chris
tian family.
* • •
A Warrnambool man named Henry Need
has just tumbled into a fortune of £30,000. He
Was splitting rails when the accident occurred.—
Time was when men refused to lend
Poor Henry any greed ;
But now he doesn’t need a friend
He’ll find a friend in Need.
• *
John Williams Welsh, of Laeor (Vic,),
flopped his young affections on Elizabeth Bush,
spinster, in this unguarded fashion—“ May i then
implore you- to cor suit your own hart to be true in
time enceforth.” In the “enceforth” Elizabeth
found it necessary to consult her own solicitor, foi
John proVed faithless, after the manner of his
kind. Yes, John sat in the Melbourne Nisi Prius
Court last week, while the avenging Dr. Madden
hurled these protestations back in his teeth. “Do
not forget me, my lovey, fore i stick to you like
seeling-wax.” Alas ! sealing-wax only sticks to
one while it is hot.
• * *
They have had a Press banquet at Mel-
bourne Exhibition. Next morning, at 4 o’clock,
one of the victims was meandering about I ’itzroy
gardens expostulating with the statues on their in-
delicacy, and exhorting them to repent and go
home to mother. A friendly policeman found him
swearing like a court-official one minute and the
next weeping over the cold monument, lamenting
that his Galatea had turned to marble before his
eyes.
• « »
The superintendent of the Exhibition
wine-bars has an anxious time of it. If he is
seen near a bar when the Press is present, then
the superintendent must “ shout.” This is an un-
written law of the establishment winch altereth
not. And as the Press always is present it be-
comes the one great aim of the superintendent’s
life to swoop down upon a bar when there is less
Press present than usual.
* * *
Sir Robert Stout, under the immediate in-
fluence of Mayor Benjamin’s champagne, said ;
“ One thing which struck visitors to Melbourne
as much as anything was the magnificent hospi-
tality which was dispensed to them.” The bear-
ing of that remark lies in the application of it.
It applies to the Robert Stouts of the continent.
But the mass of visitors to Melbourne not being
“ distinguished ” are generally struck by the fact
that they can’t get a decent drink for fidi
A Hobart man has brought under the
notice of the local Mercury a scheme for providing
his native island with cheap rainfalls. He suggests
that the Tasmanian army shall fix its largest piece
of artillery on the summit of Mount Wellington,
“and when the heavily-laden clouds are floating
overhead, fire nearly perpendicular ” at the coveted
vapour, which would promptly descend in gentle
rain upon the earth beneath/ The Hobart man
sent a pound-note along with his suggestion, and
promises to repeat the dose “ if a man and flagstaff
be stationed there (at Mount Wellington or in the
clouds—he doesn’t say which) so as to communicate
with the Telegraph Office.” It sounds very pro-
mising. The Telegraph Office will send messages
around the district advising rain in ten minutes,
after which the army will receive orders to put up
umbrellas and fire. Then the long-prevailing
drought will terminate.
* * *
Mrs. Blank, wife of one of the richest
men in Wellington (N.Z.), who made his pile by
an ’onest and ’umble occupation inseparably con-
nected with a cart and a lantern, being anxious to
storm sassiety, clad herself in purple and fine


Hope for the Deaf.— Nicholson’s Patented Arti
Fioal Ear Drums. Cures Deafness in all its stages. The
most astonishing cures have been effected. Send for 132’
paged illustrated book containing “Essay on Deafness,'
ilustrations of the Drums, copies of patent papers, letters
from Doctors, Lawyers, Editors, eto., who have been
cured by these Drums, and who recommend them.—Dr.
NICHOLSON, «6 William Stbbit, Melbourne,
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
“ I have found Mr. W. F. Caunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine lonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellis Palmhe." Prepared
only by W. F. CAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown.
Obtainable from jv,ll Chemists Take no substitute.
linen and called upon Mrs. Dr. Z ;, the most
bongtongey female in the Empire City. The
slavey, with nice discrimination, permitted Mrs.
Blank to roost in the hall while she carried her
pasteboard to her chief, returning with celerity the
card and this message : —“Missis don’t want any-
think doin’ in yer ’usband’s line just now, but she’s
taken ’is haddress from the card and will Ft’m
know when anythink wants attendin’ to.” [This
is a perfectly splendid story, and various N.Z.
correspondents have sent it along by every mail
for the past five years. It is published now in
order that it may have a much-needed and eternal
rest.—Ed. B.]
• •
A lady called at Williamstown (Vic.) rail-
way-station lately and despatched a small brown-
paper parcel to an address somewhere up-country.
She was particularly anxious concerning its safety
and called back twice to make dead-sure that it
was all right. When she was quite convinced on
this point she heaved a deep sigh of relief, then
laughed wildly, hit the parcel-clerk twice on the
nose, and went out and drowned herself. Poor
woman !
* * *
The Ladies’ Sanitary Association are en-
thusiasts for hygiene. They met in Sydney last
week and passed around a dummy baby and
thoroughly enjoyed themselves. The lecturer
said that the dummy was not made as babies
generally are, and that consequently the clothes
would have to be cut differently when provision
was being made for the real article. But all the
same, the Association was in raptures, and the
cause of hygiene hung up a peg higher
* * *
Thirty-three Balli widows are to receive
bonuses of £B5 each. Mr, Sievwright, who ap-
pears to have made a profound study of the sub-
ject, calculates that there will be a further surplus
for division when, “in the natural course of
things,” these widows marry. The brute instinct
is the bridge between sentiment and finance.
Medical students who matriculate think
that they thereby show they possess enough
knowledge of classics. They ask to start at once
with the saw and pill-box. Something can be
said in favour of this idea, but the Sydney Uni-
versity Senate decreed, by eight to seven votes,
last week, that another year of Horace and
Demosthenes must be borne with.
♦ » *
It Is gratifying to learn that Lord Leveson,
the British nobleman who swallowed half-a crown
some time ago, is still in good health. The coin
remains in his system but it seems to agree with
him. Somehow this sets us thinking of a certain
Hindoo person in one of James Payn’s novels
who swallowed an immense diamond—almost the
whole of his master’s fortune —and got the jewel
fixed so firmly in his vitals that it couldn’t be
shaken out of him. Then his owner sat down and
laid siege to him for 25 years ; he removed him to
a lonely English country house and boarded and
lodged him and watched over him generally, and
waited for him to die that he might be cut open
and the property rescued. He went broke at last
through having so much of his fortune locked up
inside the Hindoo, and died in disgust ,; and the
Asiatic fled with the jewel still in him and went
down along with a sinking ship, and then the heirs
and executors dived for him and brought him up
and extracted the valuables out of him, and lived
happily ever afterwards. The moral is that Lord
Leveson should be cut open at once, in order that
that half- crown may be extricated from the con-
volutions of his innards and given to the poor.
Apropos of the foregoing, it is related that when
someone told Earl Granville that Leveson had
gained eleven pounds after swallowing the half-
crown, Lord G. exclaimed; “Ah, that makes
eleven pounds two shillings and sixpence.”
• *
P A German doctor of deep research pro-
pounds the idea that sea-sickness can be cured
by a system of breathing. One must sit still and
breathe regularly and freely according to a fixed
schedule, and, providing the patient hangs on
steadily to the programme while he ■ is driven up
against the mast at one moment, and sent-to
wallow in the lee scuppers the next, and always
supposing that he is careful to breathe regularly,
no matter how bad he feels or how much he falls
about the deck, he will be all right unless the
doctor has made a mistake.
“Why don’t the men propose ? ” Because
the girls always chip in first.
* * *
The British Medical Association has lately
been studying the mortality tables with a view to
deciding what influence total abstinence exercises
upon the human frame. Its investigations dealt
with 4234 persons, all over the age of 25, and
among these the teetotallers attained an average
age of SIJ years, the very moderate drinkers held
out to 62 years, men who got drunk occasionally
lasted 59i years, heavy drinkers died off at an all-
,round average of 57| years, and irreclaimable sots
fell into a premature grave at the age of 52.
Therefore we have very high authority for the
conclusion that it is the teetotaller and not the
drunkard who is cut off in the flower of his bloom,
and that it is the moderats drunker whose days
are longest amid the drinks which a beneficent
Providence has bestowed upon him.
* * *
Many people seem disposed to question
the accuracy of the doctors’ dictum that a certain
young white man now confined at Little Bay
Hospital, Sydney, is a leper ; it seems to be
generally thought that whites do not contract
leprosy. As a matter of fact, there are scores of
white lepers at Molokai leper-settlement, in the
Sandwich Islands.
* • •
A breezy little story reaches us from a
Western mining town. A well known business
man, owner of a decent-sized block of buildings,
was anxious to rid himself of certain unpleasant
creditors and determined, before filing his shovel,
to make over the property to the ‘ ‘ lady ” who
acted as his “wife.” He did so, and duly “went
up King-street,” got whitewashed, and anxiously
hastened back to “ resume the plume ” of domestic
enjoyment, but, alas ! only to find that in his
absence an old flame had interviewed his “missus,”
explained matters, led her to the hymeneal altar,
and annexed both her and the property, leaving
the ex-owner a sadder and a wiser man. This
little item will remind old Sydney folk of a some-
what similar incident which occurred many years
ago. A prominent professional man had some
trouble looming in the distance, and to square
matters transferred some very valuable property
to his “housekeeper.” He got into trouble—in
fact, some years of “trouble”—and while in
trouble a well-known medical man came along,
made love to the “housekeeper,” “made an
honest woman of her,” and annexed the property.
All the parties to this latter transaction are now
occupying small allotments of land in the vicinity
of Haslem’s Creek graveyard.
• • •
One of England’s heroes, retired from the
profession of battle, murder, and sudden death on
Bd. per day, was brought into Melbourne City
Court a week ago. In consideration of past ser-
vices, the ancient warrior was remitted to gaol for
one calendar month pour encourager Jes autres.
We don’t want to fight.
* * *
Advt. from Sydney E. News :
A MARRIED MAN, with brown eyes, that lived in
Petersham seven years ago, had a Fair Girl and
took the wife about to make believe he knew nothing
about her, and when he thought he was not suspected
he left the wife.
Poor little woman ! This is one of the saddest
affairs we have heard of for a long time. We
knew a man with brown eyes once, but he lived
at Balmain, and it was a dog that he took about
with him, so we presume it couldn’t be the same
person. Besides he never had a wife, and, when
we come to think of it, one of his eyes was green.
• • ♦
Says Sydney D.T. in a leading article :
The narrow conservatism ofjthe pulpit still holds out
against women, but it is to be hoped that the male cleric
will eventually have to follow the suit of the doctor and
the lawyer and take his fair chance in the survival of the
fittest.
What nonsense I Why, the pulpits are and ever
have been full of old women.
* • •
The social amenities of life are carefully
cultivated at Molong (N, S. Wales), and it is
there that the finest flowers of courtesy grow upon
the soil of the human soul. A hospital ball took
place at the little township recently, and in the
course of the proceedings a J6-stone guest choked
the honorary secretary and smashed some crockery
with him, and froze the marrow of the place with
his agonised wail as he brought him down in a
sitting position on top of a quantity of coloured
jellies.
* * •
By nature the Australian bushman, that
is to say the back-blocks native, is a dandy who
The Gaiety Company take a “banefit” at sea. Back view of the angels. Rear
elevation of the seraphim.
likes to wear bright colours and hates to hide his
noble proportions under shapeless and baggy
clothes. A smart Melbourne softgoods-firm is on
the way to coin a big fortune out of the native’s
dapperness. Some time ago they made plans and
specifications for “ a flash rig-out ” for the “rorby”
busbman. The scheme comprised breeches tight
round the thighs, fancy waistcoat with velvet
lapels, and a short coat. The firm is now turning
these suits out by the thousand, and no other
clothes have any show in the wilderness.
* * *
In marriage one and one makes one. In
divorce one from one leaves two.
The latest Exhibition scandal is prettily touched
upon in the above ballad. How many firemen
ride on each machine, or whether it is the police-
men who bring off these midnight handicaps
nobody can say. Somebody does. There is a dark
suspicion that the abstractors of unconsidered
trifles —in the shape of pickles, sardines, potted
meats and preserved ginger—pursue their larceni-
ous careers on tricycles in order to save time, and
that the vehicle in question collapsed under an
extra load. Common politeness now demands
that the firemen shall publish a joint testimonial
to the effect that “ Singer’s machines are the best.”
• « *
When the constable is forcibly torn away
from his meat-pie he begins to droop like a wilted
flower in the dog-days. Last week the police em-
ployed in guarding the West Wallsend mine
(N.S.W.), rose as one unanimous “hossifer” to
demand better food, and the authorities had to
cave in, lest a constabulary strike should be piled
on top of their other miseries, and it might
become necessary to employ the military to watch
over “ blackleg ” policemen while the latter
watched over the rest of tfce public. This incident
should serve as a warning to statesmen who ruth-
lessly haul the force away from the pleasant
haunts where Sarah languishes at the back gate
and awaits the coming of her lover.
Hot summer brings mosquitoes, but
Cold winter brought us icicles,
And when the Exhibition’s shut
The firemen ride on tricycles.
So thus amidst life’s changing scenes
Our love of sport increases,
And one of Singer’s best machines
Is smashed in little pieces.
Personal Items.
Mr. Greenwood will probably be the new
editor of the Saturday Review.
Mr. Hayter, the Victorian Government
Statist, denies that he intends to resign.
The Emperor of Germany and the Em-
peror of Austria have been kissing one another
again.
Lord Gumboil has been left a fortune by
his uncle Sir William Wellington Cairns, once
Governor of Queensland.
During her recent visit to Scotland Queen
Victoria stayed at the house of Lady Archibald
Campbell, Lord Carington’s sister.
Mrs. Boucicault has applied to the Eng-
lish courts for a divorce from the cold-blooded
creature she once called her husband, and has
got it.
Mr. Francis R. Hume, a brother of the
celebrated Australian explorer, died the other day
at the age of 85. He had lived in the Burrowa
(N.S.W.) district for 40 years.
The Empress Frederick of Germany is
collecting all the obituary notices of her husband.
From English papers alone she has received 9000,
from Germany 8000, and from France 7000.
The Cardinal Archbishop of New York,
an American by birth, will be a probable candi-
date for the next vacancy in the Papacy. It is
rumoured that John Haynes will also stand.
Mrs. Cleveland, wife of the Fnited States
President, is a teetotaller, and through her per-
suasion Cleveland has given up liquor. Repub
lican Harrison, who is a candidate for the Presi-
dency, is also a teetotaller.
Alfred Bennett, of the Evening News,
has added a trophv of £3OO to the sculling cham-
pionship prize. The News staff, however, would
be much better pleased if the genial Alfred added
£3OO to their skulling-prizes.
Just as the papers were preparing to
gush over “ one of General Gordon’s letters,”
picked up from an Adelaide gutter, they dis-
covered that the tattered document was a fac-
simile.: which the Graphic published by the
bushel three years ago.
Princess Maud, Tummy’s third daughter,
is, it is cabled, likely tq marry the Czarewitch.
This royal youth will therefore presently be saying
“ Come into the garden, Maud.” And Inland will
answer unto Michaelovsky : “Yes, ducky, wait
till I put on my bomb-proof tile.”
A German agent was lately accredited by
influential persons in the Fatherland to purchase
a London daily paper in the interests of the
present German Emperor, and was not confined
to thousands, indeed he was said to have offered a
million for one organ without success.
Ratu Timothy, a son of the late King
Thakombau, of Fiji, has just died. The queer in-
cidents attendant on Timothy’s stay at Govern-
ment House, Sydney, during the reign of Sir Her-
cules Robinson, will still be fresh in the minds of
many people, including Lady Robinson.
It is now rumoured that Denlehy’s bones
were removed from Bathurst years ago and in-
terred in Devonshire-street Cemetery, Sydney.
If this is true, the fall of Dan. O’Connor will
exceed everything on record since the legendary
days when O’Satan was judiciously thrown out of
heaven by the tail.
The “ female-impersonator,” lately ar-
rested in Melbourne, was one of a gang headed by
a coloured hanger-on of the stage who blackmailed
that much-advertised person, Fergus Hume,
author of “ The Mystery of k Hansom Cab ”
and “ Madame Midas,” to the extent of £2O, while
he was on a visit to Sydney.
On the very day that Zola was made a
Knight of the Legion of Honour in Paris, the
publishers and sellers of his works in Tennessee
were arrested wholesale, and are now waiting
their trial as purveyors of indecent literature,
and only a few weeks ago Mr. Vizetelly was hauled
over the coals and committed for trial.
The Hon. William Macleay has presented
his museum of natural history and £6OOO to the
Sydney University. The gift of money is to be
solely devoted to a curator’s salary. That is, he
gives the Senate full control over the “ specimens,”
but will not let them touch a penny of the coin.
One would think the Senate above suspicion !
Sir James Cockle who, it is cabled, pre-
sided at the Savage Club dinner given last week
to Mr. Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond ”) on the
occasion of his return to Australia, was formerly
Chief Justice of Queensland. Sir James, who is
or was vice-president of the Club named, has
attained some eminence as a mathematician, and
is a son of the inventor of Cockle’s pills, which
fact in itself is fame. ♦
Tbe Government assessor has valued the
estate of the late Mr. Miller, of Kew, known as
“ Money Miller,” at £1,450,680, or £lOO,OOO more
than the executors’ valuation The estate will
have to pay probate duty of £72,834. It is a pity
that the Government have not power to resume
undervalued estates at the price set upon them by
the executors.
It Is alleged that when “ Majah ” Smith,
of “feet” renown, was Minister of Education
in Victoria he visited a certain State school, and
was told by the headmaster that the standard of
the curriculum was not as high as it should be.
“ Indeed !” replied the Majah Minister, “that
must be rectified. I’ll see that a carpenter is sent
round to have it raised at once.”
David Buchanan, barrister at-law and
member of the N, S.W. Parliament, is anxious to
establish a new creed, to be called the “True
Church” in which case we presume that David,
who has been a good friend to every impenitent
horse-thief who had the price of an assize-brief
about him, will be enthroned as High Priest and
work out the salvation of the world. Hail, sons of
David!
Queen Victoria is no believer in new-
fangled steam steering gear. As is well known
the heaviest ships can now be steered by a lad
with about as much exertion as that involved in
winding a watch. On the yacht Victoria and
Albert, however, Her Majesty will have no such
appliances ; the boat is steered in the good old*
fashioned man-at-the-wheel style of guiding a
vessel. In rough weather, therefore, it takes half-a ■
dozen able-bodied seamen to keep the ship’s head
straight.
The British Premier, the Marquis of Salis-
bury, has conferred the living of Hatfield—worth
£2097 a year—on his son. The son doesn’t preach
at all, and can’t pray worth a curse, but he allows
a curate £lOO a year to do all the work, and gives
him the use of a ruin that used to be a parsonage
—it being stipulated that he repairs the said ruin
at his own expense. As this will absorb all his
first year’s income, it is presumed that the curate
will live for 12 months on grass, like that blessed
man, Nebuchadnezzar.
One by one the pioneers of Western
N.S.W. are passing away. A few months ago
the death occurred of Mr. John MT’hillamy, a
wealthy landholder, of Mount Tamar, Bathurst,
and now we chronicle the demise of his brother
Robert, of Gorman’s Hill, at the age of 70. Nearly
60 years aero three stalwart brothers, John,
Robert, and Charles M'Phillamy, natives of
Windsor (N.S.W.), were brought across the moun-
tains, in which region they ultimately became
possessed of many thousands of broad acres.
Charles, of Orton Park, near Bathurst, is the only
brother now left.
The late Richard Driver, solicitor, once
had a “Wellerian” experience in the Sydney
Water Police Court. He was cross-examining a
little girl witness, and believing she had been
tutored, he asked if her mother hadn’t told her
something before coming to court. “ Yes, sir.”
“Ah ! I thought so ! Now, my little girl, tell us
what it was,” and Dickey leaned over to catch
the damaging admission. *’ She told me, sir, that
all the'lawyers tried hard to get people to tell lies
and that if I was asked any questions I’d better
be sure and tell the truth.” Dickey and his case
collapsed.
The late Joseph Holt, who suffered trans-
portation to NS. Wales for leading Irish in-
surgents in the ’9B Rebellion, adopted a method of
his own in selecting his employes, and it was
said of him that every man he engaged
proved to be a satisfactory servant. Applicants
for employment from him were requested to wait
till dinner-time and to accept the hospitality of
the “General’s” board. The man who ate
“ like a Christian ” was employed right away.
But he who stuck his knife into the salt, sucked
beef-bones bare and devoured everything he saw—
for him there was no work,
In the course of an important case which
was being heard before the late Sir James Martin,
Chief Justice of N.S.W., a witness was asked to
disclose the particulars of a certain conversation.
Before he could reply the opposing counsel sprang
up and objected to an answer being given. The
question was pressed. For half a day the rival
barristers argued the point and Sir James, after
an able review of the cases cited in support and
otherwise, ruled that the question under the cir-
cumstances must be answered. Then the witness
with a cruel smile intimated that no conversation
whatever had taken place.
Sir John E. Gorat, the English Solicitor-
General, whose name has been mentioned lately
in connection with a prospective governorship, was
a great light in the Aborigines’ Protection Society.
In 1860 he was resident magistrate of the Waikato
district (N.Z.), and his philo-Maori proclivities in-
duced him to start a Maori newspaper at Ngaru-
awahia with the object of demonstrating to the
natives the unwisdom of the “ King ” movement,
then in its infancy. Potatau, Tawhiao’s father,
was chosen king by the Maoris, and feeling that
Gorst would undermine his position, the Maori
king started an opposition “ jerk ” and went bald-
headed for Gorst’s rag. Mr. Gorst replied with a
stinging article, whereupon Rewi Maniopoto, the
Maori Premier, looted the office of the Queenite
journal and carried off the type, which was after-
wards, it is said, made into bullets and used against
the European troops. Rewi is the chieftain who,
when offered terms of honorable surrender at the
siege of Orakau, sent back the memorable reply—
“ We will fight for ever and ever and ever.”
The father and mother of the late Sir
James Martin, Chief Justice of N.S, Wales, are
buried in a handsome vault in the old Catholic
cemetery at Parramatta, while the remains of the
dead Chief Justice occupy a niche in the mau-
soleum of the Longs in the cemetery attached to
St. Jude’s Protestant Church, Randwick. The
old couple were interred with the rites of the
R.C. Church, while tbe Anglican bishop, Dr.
Barry, performed the last offices over the earthly
remains of Sir James. Why this was thus is ex-
plained by those who know, or at least profess to
know, thusly Sir James, then plain Mr. Martin,
was a candidate for a Western constituency and
had been promised the Catholic vote. Before the
day of nomination, however, the clergy took
offence at something done or left undone by Sir
James and the clerical support was withdrawn
and given to his opponent, who was duly returned.
On the hustings, Sir James vowed that he would
never again rely upon the political word of the
R.C, body and would sever his connection with it,
which he did. Although he never openly joined
any other church and was on terms of friendship
with Archbishop Vaughan, he always fought shy
of “ the Romans,” and yet more significant is the
fact that with the exception of Mr. Peter Eaucett
he was never associated in any Ministry with any
member professing Homan Catholicism.


OHf
4,
v,
r.
<£//?sa'£/?y c/ec//pes£
pe tc<y/pc{ecl o/ /Voy-rfs/orc
I’f/ctee- -/? *-<>*?/sea Jy rc
r im
la/ l-l IT L r CHA PEL
M if n n > i
MAP OF THE
UNITED .5 TATE 5
The- /Low# OAS 7>oL/C£: arc,
frccin/na To <&c.e.p T~o<x T~
iT} <2- <2- co/a, a. Z /^^/ys/en/.
/Vo Vj L I IJ/\y s
E\e
STA fa of 6Hi
1 KlO KJ DAY
bßi«^
%
HorJe
1 RMh
#
1
%
Borrow I
/h
Forecast, N.S.kv.— Strong southerly winds
generally with mere nip along the coast and
high lam ,a, north A* Syd. Jey. / |
f
\
ij/j//?^pele/-
\ M§ al y e^ M/maae " e^-
' ' ' \s V -/ & 1
>
/ c of
I) rj 0 \
y
gdf
fortes o*^*7.
7ti/- /fead/ess e/?es are 4e.e*-i> J ? 3„^ Ul f "*
Coyyy accxFrycp /? <ouScjerJ * t
«« c
, yy
V> :
S U c oi&M
fol ,( S fl o>'l
V J. 5 r
. v^tF 9
eV
j.
~ (Lb*
I**
The Weather and Things.


POLICE UNIFORMS.
VO 9£*VbnCTI Q3f TiTt DAILY TELEO ft a 1*3.
1 would draw ths attaatftn o I tbs
IWiyj lifepK.iTtawut to the fset ihat the uni-
fQCmjJiit the men, £tz now some seven ox eight
tSarvths these uafor-
isnate fellows, who if ill-used by the public
iTbaaid *t least b« vrell cared fur by the if
«epjttttDeat, axe allowed to go abost ragged.
'During my travels of late through some of the
coldest places in the colony 1 have scad police
uhilomo ao ragged no to bo quite oofit to wear.
I have requested one or two ol the police to
ii I me know within three week.* from
if their uniform* are not supplied by iir, ,-a
1 ahull have the question asked at to m
the supply of these uniforms is to b <v/w\
till the eturu of Mr. Foobsry from — iii
Yours, Ac, TEA l *
op /o
tyacl/pfaf ,c/,pe. coea-fet- TFCopceat s•*
I'CLQ > <S
L-r-> ~ /'ju)SP a ' / ~ rta.
foci &f‘ e rf .
fif r/Vuf Oj[ fiasDeur.
A fiof
r //ABtf-
pifS*X?
I'P'f* pm*
's‘„ b«
'~e)pL. S'yu.CLct^
a.re.a, ~ oJcC'c)v'rf > eS
ipj/eact of ofctv'&Zoys.
/f 'eq 'LAR Sad Va/ _ ' IDs fioD as T
ffy/yU De.fi Took So opucfy Dcup See.p
s' Oy Opy tDcty Do I? e. /ockr-ufi /y
I Cos Op ko h(/ SO/fiT 7ifio. D Tfi&rc
%lU/* «/* *‘»y
fiffe. doubles £'*> e //° r^s
To e-sac^/oe.j
TVc^cfi yay XYZ-VW? Atdu/f/o*'
re/ba/rj tofy/'cfy os you Jee /yn X/Z ~////¥V /S
cc cto/pa of.
<S
Some in Rags and Some In Tags.


Bona-fide announcement. Highest Cash Price
K'ven for all kinds of Gent.’s Left-off Clothing,
ress Suits for Sale or Hire. Letters promptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell-street, MELBOURNE.
Fishing- Tackle of every description for sea and
river fishing, Wholesale and Retail, Eastway’s,
411 George-street, Sydney,
Exhibition Visitors ought to carry handkerchiefs because
they can get those useful articles perfumed gratis with
Crab Apple Blossom at the Crown Pbefcmkrt Co.’s
Stands in the Melbourne Exhibition, All Melbourne
ie on tbl» Scent
Fishing-Nets, all sorts and sizes, at the Fishing
Depot, Eastway’s, 411 deorge-street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
There were 38,000 marriage ceremonies in
South Australia in 1887.
. , ~
. I* lo revenue derived by Freetrade
England from Customs duties amounted last year
to £20,000,000.
West Australians are determined to have
constitutional government. Not even the example
of N.S. Wales deters them.
Oar old friend General M‘lver, of “Four-
teen flags” celebrity, is now in England “organis-
ing an expedition to New Guinea.
mu xr t . • i ci ■ , ,
ihe New International Society which has
been just formed has its head-quarters at New
York and will have branches in Australia.
of FK ttf xp,«iW'Y
, f J ’V*
4/
Cf
%r
Cjov. '/Vjuj Ci
r e .^ ooi '4 /■ ""
■p #/>*
V/o^p
fe4voote
“THERE'S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER."
If ever you publicly wear party-colours
and anticipate a row, be sure that plenty of fish-
hooks are sewn on the inside of your ribbons.
The Rev. Gonsalvo Gr ogophobla Kavanagh
rises to ask “ Why do we send representatives to
Parliament ?” That’s an easy one. To grind our
little axes and roll our little logs.
Ex-Premier Service does not like the
phrase, Imperial Federation. He prefers to call
the idea “ Imperial Unity.” The latter is the more
compact phrase, but it should be admitted that it
is traceable to H, Mortimer Franklyn, Esq.
Premier Parkes’ reception at Wollongong
last week was a chilly affair. The cheering was
so faint as to be dismal, and one miner sent a
Nordenfeldt shot right home with a shout of
“Perhaps you’ll send your soldiers to shoot us
down !”
The law in Franca and Germany is that
every time a person is detected selling adulterated
articles of food and drink he is compelled to
put notices of the fact in his windows, and to
pay for the insertion of the same in all the local
newspapers.
The Italians of New York sent a message
lately to the Italian Government offering to send
a company to support the “ mother country ” at
Massowah. The offer was not accepted, and thus
the Plain Bill of the Yankee Italians was rele-
gated to obscurity.
Old Mr. William Westgarth, the financial
man, advocates Imperial Federation on the ground
that it would increase the demand for Australian
Loan Stocks. We now begin to understand the
urgent necessity for cementing those bonds which
bind us to the dear old Mother Country.
A clerk in the Rockhampton Lands Office
has justpleaded guilty to a charge of embezzling
£l2l. The evidence showed that he was a married
man, and had been six years in the Lands Depart-
ment. His salary was only 20s. per week, and he
passed £9OOO through his hands every month !
In educating the Hindoos the British
aristocratic classes have made a rod for their own
backs. Graduates of the Indian Universities are
now taking a very prominent part in English
politics on the Radical side, and are courteously
alluded to by such Tory rags as the HavVk as
“niggers.”
Dr. Duncan Emmet, a grand-nephew of
Robert Emmet, and Sir Thomas Esmond, a great-
grand-nephew of Henry Grattan, stood together
in the gallery of the House of Commons a short
time back. Emmet, the prince of political mar-
tyrs, and Grattan, the king of patriotic orators,
had thus another look at one another.
The N.S.W. Government have announced
several big land-sales. They are in such a hurry
to rake the money into the Treasury that they
have declined to allow long credit to the pur-
chasers of certain suburban lands which, if sold on
extended terms, would bring ever so much more
money than they are now likely to realise.
The signatures to the petition in favour of
the Sydney city railway extension already number
24,000, Of course there is a big syndicate at the
bottom of the business. As matters stand, it has
been arranged that when the scheme comes off the
State calf shall be bled to whiteness by the
patriotic property-owners along the route.
Says Father Hayes, of Youghal, Ireland ;
If England and the landlords did the same things in
America, and would despise our appeals for justice, we
would, if we oould, pelt them not only with dynamite,
but with the lightning of heaven and the fires of hell, till
every British bull-dog whelp and cur would be pulverised
and made top-dressing for the soil.
Yerra!
The Opposition faction in Queensland are
urging the Government to pass an extremely
drastic Inebriate Bill. The Bill provides for
establishing asylums into which persons may be
run day or night and kept confined for years. It
is surmised that this is Sir Samuel Griffith’s
latest scheme to secure a majority in the Queens-
land Assembly.
Fish, M.H.R for Dunedin (N.Z.), is to be
presented by his constituents with a purse and
£loo in recognition of the exuberance of his ver-
bosity and the elasticity of his astounding jaw.
The Dunedinites do not profess to be attached to
Fish personally, but they are a devout people and
believe that it is he who is prophetically referred
to in Job, 41st chap , 2nd verse.
This is one way of doing it in N.S.W.
Two persons the other day applied to rent an area
of grass land from the Crown, teadering an annual
rental of £4 per section of 040 acres. This offer
was promptly refused, but the land was put up by
public auction at an upset rental of £2 per section.
Two persons only attended the sale and secured
it for one half of what they originally offered.
When that shallow, theatrical fraud, Louis
Napoleon, paid in his checks, London Punch sang :
Let whoso will count of his faults the cost,
, And point a moral in his saddened end,
This is the thougfit in England uppermost—
He, who has died among us, lived our friend.
Emperor Frederick’s diary rather discounts the
friendship of Hingland’s lamented royal pal.
Quite recently a trio of Commissioners
appointed by Government to inquire into the
working of the N.S.W. Lands Department,
finished a 14 weeks’ sojourn in Grafton. It would
be interesting to know how these gentlemen are
paid, whether by the hour or by lump sum, also
the travelling expenses allowed, and whether
their numerous shooting-excursions come under
the heading of hard work.
The N.S.W. Ministry is understood to
have its official eye on a morsel of George-street
property closely contiguous to that famous
declivity out of which Mr. Cliff so cleverly made
£9OOO. It is considered by certain members of the
Government that from a public point of view its
acquisition as a pendant to the State’s historical
Circular Quay purchases may yet be found
desirable if not absolutely necessary.
Notwithstanding that Premier Parkes re-
fused to take Timothy Breen’s £lO, he has set his
mind upon making a trip to Melbourne. It may
be confidently predicted that nobody in Melbourne
will offer him £lO. A rolling stone gathers no
moss. If Parkes had spent his life travelling all
over both hemispheres he would not have been
able, in his old age, to find a Timothy Breen,
though he looked for such a man day and night.
Parkes stuck to one place like a limpet—and thus
Timothy walked into his arms. Moral: Don’t
gad about.
Britain has another little war on hand in
India, and the cable states that the red-coated
warriors have occupied Shalambi on this side of
Gnatong. These are renewed signs of the old
tendency to fight the Lord knows who, and to
wade through jungles to the other end of the
deuce knows where at the call of duty. We
trust that the general who is now hanging on to
the slopes of the Himalayas may long be spared
to straddle through places with names like the
whirl of a grindstone and to send telegrams stat-
ing that he has arrived safely in localities which
no one could ever find without the aid of a Divine
revelation.
The N.S.W. G overnment are going either
•to sell or to lease their tramways to a private
company. It is quite unnecessary to state that
the private company has been ready quite a long
time —two private companies, in fact, each headed
by well-known syndicate-men. It is understood
however, that the companies will not be so foolish
as to compete in the matter. They hope to unite
forces and divide the spoil. By the way, Com-
missioner Goodchap says that the trams do not
pay, “because the public are not charged enough
for the service performed.” Does this herald a
rise in the price of fares when the syndicates get
hold of the trams ?
Although the present Victorian Govern-
ment is practically played out, the chances of that
odd-and-even crowd who constitute the “ direct
Opposition ” are not perceptibly rosier than they
were 13 months ago. On the one hand, it is main-
tained that the weight of Tom Bent handicaps his
party clean out of in; oa the other Hand, a steady-
going individual like Keys, M.L A., says he will
serve the irrepressible Thomas, but “would be
sorry to see in offlcs many of the gentlemen with
whom Mr. Bent is associated.” The Victorian
Opposition, in short, is, like the N.S.W. Oppo-
sition, largely composed of Jonahs. Each member
is the pet aversion of the man who sits next to
him. They are not even united in a common de-
sire to attain office, for certain of their moving
spirits only open their mouths to have them
stopped with an occasional plum. After the next
election, a few changes may be made in the Minis-
terial bundle of sticks, and it will be stronger than
ever.
The London Weekly Times and Echo, of
a recent date, has the following concerning the
physical state of nearly one-half of the British
civil population, judging from those who present
themselves for enrolment in Queen Victoria’s
army :
The Report of the Army Medical Department for 1886—
issued dreadfully late, as usual—is very interesting oa
account of the data it indirectly gives as to the physical
condition of the civil population. Out of 74,991 candi-
dates for army service in 1886, 42,138 were found fit and
32,853 unfit for service, and to the latter must be added
373 more who proved unfit within three months. Thus
out of every thousand 438.09 were rejected and 561*91
passed in medical inspection. The rejections were more
numerous than in the preceding year, and this applies to
the recruits from all parts of the United Kingdom, and
representing all classes of occupations. Out of every
thousand recruits inspected, 634 were labourers, 156
artisans, 121 mechanics, 57 shopmen and clerks ; 12 were
professional men, and 20 were boys’ under 17. There is a
gradual change for the better in the educational status of
those who offer themselves. Tne greatest number of re-
jections were due to insufficient chest measurement
(9282), defective vision (2721), under weight (3447), and
under height (1927). The army authorities impartially
dislike excess in either direction, and seven tall young
men had their dreams of glory dispelled by failure to pass
as being “ over-height.”


When next you bake try Pemell'a Snow-whitb Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow,
Study your own Interest by using Pemell’a Snow-whits
Patbnt Rollsb Flour. It 1b made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality f» exceptionally good and the price verv I civ
Ladies’ wire dress-stands for draping dresses on
—you can have them skirts only, plain, or with
extending skirts, full figure, plain, or with extend-
ing skirt and bust—at the Wire Works, Eastway’s,
411 George-street, Sydney,
[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Oct. 10, 1888
Mv dear Mooraihvda, —
The opening of the Women’s Industrial Exhibition a
Centenary Fair—the last ebullition of the N.S.W. Cente
nial festivities—took place at the Exhibition Buildir
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney, on 2ad intt., wh
the Baron, who had on the loveliest diamond scan
pin possible, opened the affair with • a spee
which showed that a long residence in the wile
of Australia hasn’t sapped U.K.’s compliments
powers to any appreciable extent. The Fair is ve
“ loyal,” my dear. “ God save our Gracious Queen ” w
inflicted upon us twice—actually two times—by a pitile
hoir attired in white, decorated with either blue or r
ribbons, oddly enough backed up by a dozen ma
choristers ! I don’t know exactly where they came in
a show of “women’s industries” purporting to be ru
entirely by our sex. The dressing, as a whole, was noi
calculated to make any woman call another woman “
fright,” and by that I mean that nobody seemed to tal
much interest in what she put on. Lady Ca
ington (the President) wore white striped sil
ornate with black moire ribbon and steel buckle
white kid gloves, white parasol, black pass
menterie bonnet, cream ribbon and strings, wi
black and cream aigrette and white oomplexion-fal
spotted with black. The Misses Carington (3) were alik
in short fawn ulsters, fawn sailor hats trimmed wi
lawn ribbon and quills, cream parasols ; Miss Walen
wore a shade of crushed strawberry, with straw ha
trimmed with velvet and quills ; Miss Jervois, dar
gobelin-blue embroidered in grey with full front of gre
silk, tan gloves, red parasol, and dark-blue bonnet, wit
pale grey ribbon, wings, and strings. One of the del
gates looked charming in leaf-brown silk with coppe
green side-panel, seal-brown velvet mantle with brown anc
green passementerie, brown gloves, and brown velve
bonnet with velvet and autumn leaves and brown ve
vet strings. An innocent kind of frock was
cream silk, with facings of spring-green velvet, le
horn hat one mass cf white ostrich feathers ; and
gorgeous take-your-breath-away sort of gown was of brigh
Indian red poplin poplin’s “the go” just now, by th
way—ornate, with red plain and frieze ! I felt incline
to ask, like Claude Frollo, “ Who ordered this tomato
whenever sire rose in the east! There were many of th
lords of creation present, of course, for what’s the goo
of a Women's Exhibition without them ? I saw as in
glass darkly “Ginger” Clarke in a high-black hat, “E. W
with a red striped necktie, G. H. Reid smiling in ta
gloves, and myriads of other celebrities. As for the Ex
hibition itself —well, it is very complete, gorgeous, artistic
and diverse, and ranges from making Christmas puddin
to frizzing a bang—one of the most attractive stalls bein
a hair-twister’s, where a charming girl manufactures
scarlet wig in full view of the audience. Potts Poin
lingers round that stall—yes. “ It’s such fun, you know
to see exactly just how one’s hair is really made,” isn’t it
At the Women’s Industrial Exhibition one of the plum
puddings which annexed the laurel was adorned with th
inevitable waving lock of cookie’s hair ! That historioa
tress couldn’t be kept out of prize “ duff ” even. Wha
a hopeless look-out!
Apropos of cooking contests at the Women’s Show, i
has been cynically suggested to me that Sydney mamma
with half-a-dozen girls “on their hands” run them befor
the public gas-stove from very ulterior motives indeed
Yes, for
The average man is charmed from the start
- When a girl is in public constructing a tart,
And when pieling an onion (to go in the hash)
She is really com oleting a perilous “mash”;
And the chances are simply 100 to one
She’ll land her a husband before sir 3 is done 1
A New Zealand correspondent writes to me thusTh
husband-beater does not acclimatize in the Britain of th
South—but it has arrived. Clara Vere de Vere Buggins
was the first female who snatched at fame by carrying
one in Wellington. Being a short girl she naturally pu
chased a peculiarly protracted pole and colossal gilt knob
with which she sallied out in the midst of a recent after
noon and a southerly buster : she carried the thing at the
“ support ” like a carbine, and turning her first corner
with the wind dead aft gouged the eye of a
passionate dude, and snatched Mrs, M'Carthy’s hand-bag
in one motion. The dude dashed the beater down and
Mrs. M. bashed it up and there was a hole through a
plate-glass window and a profane tradesman on the pave-
ment almost immediately. When Clara had paid for the
pane and pacified Mrs. M Carthy, she concluded to trail
the cause of all her woes, but a dog of scientific tendencies
mistaking the parasol part for a new variety of meaty
bone tried to swallow it, whereupon it flaw open in his
throat and choked him, which caused bis owner coarsely
to enquire, “ Where that giant’s umbrella was going with
that dwarf ? ’ Clara, to escape, signalled a tram, entering
which the stick got “athwart hawse,” badly dinging the
curate of St. Paul’s and scraping the public trustee’s nose ;
scrambling out she hailed a cab and would have been all
right only when the driver shut the door the muzzle of the
beater shot through the off-side window, and when she
tried to pull it back the butt went through the near-side
glass, and there she bad to leave it-sticking out on either
side like the lower stun’sail booms of a frigate. Clara’s
ma has now made a most recherche fire-stove ornament
out of the remnants of the parasol, while her brother Bob
has razeed the pole into a walking-stick.
It is at least a partially acknowledged fact that the
average Australian girl has a leg and a foot like a broom-
stick stuck in a shingle. Yet the situation isn’t
altogether hopeless, at least for the next generation, for
I read that “ cultivating the feet that they may be
developed into an aristocratic shape is all a matter of
care. Of course when the bones are hardened it is not so
easy a matter to cultivate a high instep, but most
children’s feet may be trained, and even the flattest
instep will become improved by wearing a shoe with an
instep-improver—that is, the outer sole and heel are made
a trifle higher than at the inside of the foot. Now there is
nothing so injurious to the shape of the foot as a short
shoe. Shoes should always be as narrow as possible but an
inch longer than the toot. Children who walk or run abou'
flinch need’t have large feet. The secret is to bathe the
feet each night in warm water and each morning in oolc
water and a little salt, rubbing vigorously. Then, if fine
darnless stockings ate worn and shoes that flt snugly
without being too tight, a beautiful foot is the sure
result." There 1 Isn’t that plain and easy to follow
I’m afraid, though, that the nearest the average Austra
lian girl will get to the above is the wearing of darnless
stockings. She generally wears them in holes.
I hear that the relict of a once popular ih:dico has
married her coachman.
As the “yotting” esason has commenced, let me de
scribe a smart sea-side get-up that would make “Big
Bbans ” of any girl who liked to order it this summer
Skirt of white flannel, opened on one side over an under
skirt of ciel-blue flannel, a pale-blue jersey and a loose
pilot-jacket of white flannel trimmed with pale-blue,
■white flannel sailor cap with blue border and blue tuft a
the top. Admire it ? I do. On a pretty girl witii fai
hair the effect would be simply paralyzing.
This is the season when the cheeky clerk lands on Manly
pier from his friend's boat, and tries to fascinate the loca
women by exhibiting his manly breast-bone and fatted
calves. The women of Manly, so far from being fas
cinated by the clerk’s calves, are understood to remark
that the display of such articles is quite unnecessary, in
asmuoh as a woman can see all the calf she wants to se
by looking at a cub of this-sort straight in the face.
Have you ever noticed how quickly girls make room in
a full omnibus when a “ nioely-dressed ” young man wit!
a waxed moustache comes to the door.
la a certain Sydney theatre.—Lady and gentleman in
the back of the d. c.—Lady (dccolleU) loq.: “Robert
there’s a nasty flea down my back. It’s biting me fear
fully.” Robert: “Shall I try and catch it, my love?
“ She : Oh, if you would, darling.” And he surreptitiously
did, to the great edification of everybody near enough to
appreciate the devotion of his act.
1 notice, in connection with the Horticultural Depart
ment of the “Women’s Industrial Exhibition,” that over
£BO, irrespective of medals, is to be distributed in prizes
—the “ Industrial Class ’’ of exhibitors to be rewarded in
filthy lucre, and the wealthy “amachaws” to receive
medals—as it is presumed that the offer of a money-prize
would make a damsel from the Point go into instan
hysterics.
Our own Mrs. Malaprop is worth hearing on the subject
of the Women’s Fair. Said she, on a recent occasion
“Do you know that when the preposition was firs;
hooted, I gave it as my oninion that it couldn’t be carried
out 1"
Gilbert and Sullivan’s new comic opera—the title and
plot of which are, as usual, witheld until secresy is no
longer possible—has Norway and Sweden for its place of
rest, the scene for the first act representing the harbour
of Hammerfest, while the scene for the second represents
the Aula of the great Swedish University at Upsala.
There are 11 principals, and the chorus will include 30
female voices ! I hear that Williamson, Garner, anc
Musgrave intend to produce this opera as soon as possible
The cable says that Mrs. Bernard Beere, the emotiona
English actress, seriously contemplates an Australian
professional tour. Mrs. Beere —who used to be a bar
maid in the Strand—appears in roles that are mostly un
healthy, mostly enervating, and done to perfection, and
her plays are mostly unhealthy, suggestive, and villain
ous. The Gaiety bar is a pretty good place wherein to
study for this line of business.
At the N.S.W. vice-regal ball on 26th lilt, the addition
of the drawing-room-the floor of which has recently been
prepared for dancing—to the usual ball-room space was
greatly appreciated after the cruelly circumscribed
dancing area hitherto available at Sydney Government
House. All Potts Point attended and behaved itself very
well, and Lady Carington looked charming in the palest
shade of blue. Next vice-regal hop is fixed for 10th inst.
Miss Alice Cornwell (Princess Midas) held an exhibition
of the Schanschieff Portable Electric Light in Sydney, on
the 4th inst., when a number of gentlemen interested in
the abolition of darkness, rolled up as one man. The
light itself is very clear—much clearer than the language
employed to tell you all about it, by the way, though the
charming manner in which Miss Cornwell describes its
intricacies quite makes up for one's bewilderment amongst
technical parts of speech.
The dance given by 20 leading Sydney matrons, headed
by Lady Innes, at Need’s Rooms, on the 24th ult., was a
really triumphant success, and just goes to show that
though “ too many cooks spoil the broth ” you cannot
have too many hostesses to give a ball. Apropos of past
festivities, the last Woollahra Private Assembly came off
at Nithsdale on 28th ult., when all the members attended
with an enthusiasm that even a long and dreary season
hadn't wilted to any visible extent.
The “Celebration ball" at Wollongong, to inadequately
express the exuberant joy the inhabitants felt at getting
the railway laid on to their town, was held at the local
Town Hall on 3rd inst., when many Sydneyites found their
way down to the place of butter, and the ball-room was
dotted with visages that one dodges daily on the block.
Some of the dresses were very fetching indeed, one of the
prettiest being a heliotrope-satin heavily ornate with pas-
sementerie en suite, white ostrich-feather fan. Two
“ distinguished visitors ” glared on the proceedings—Sir
John Robertson and “ Ginger,” with the inevitable
“ posie,” of course. Also an able-bodied male, in a white
linen jacket over his dress-shirt, looked like a summer
waiter—perhaps he was ; and Captain Weston, in the red
uniform of the effete Lancaah, reminded one of an ani-
mated carrot. That’s all, except that some of the decora-
tions were set on fire bv either a red-haired girl or a
Chinese lantern—l forget which—and that, “after the
opera was over,” the special 2 am. train back to town for
first-class passengers consisted of a long procession of
cushionless second-class cattle-trucks I Oh, and the ac-
commodation was so taxed in the township that I saw
one well-known Sydney stock-broker, who was going to
the ball, placidly putting on his war-paint on the balcony
of an hotel in the main street!
I hear that a bereaved Sydney swell, whose papa ran
a lollie-faotory not long ago, has publicly remarked
about Charles Danby, of the departed Gaiety crowd:
“ Dontchewthink that fellah's—aw—vewy T , vewy vulgah ?”
What 1 More vulgar than peppermint-lozenges, dear sir?
The recent Melbourne Mayoral Ball was, a correspon-
dent gushingly assures me, a glitter of gorgeousness
enough to make even a Sultan pale with envy. Mrs.
Benjamin (the Mayoress) wore blue silk ornate with gold
lacs and splendid diamonds on the corsage, neok, arms,
and haii 1 , and everybody present dressed a “ paralyzer.”
The weather was cold, wet, and miserable, but, as the
whole of the Collins-street pavement was covered with an
awning, none of the 2100 guests assembled got even
damp. Amongst the other celebrities present, my cor-
respondent mentions Miss Adelaide Detohon.
lies shill Rasing Club held another reunion at their
pretty racecourse on 28th inst.
At a very solemn moment during the Melbourne Mayor’s
ball, as one charming lady flicked out her perfumed hand-
kerchief, out flew a white furry powder-puff into the
middle of the floor.
By the exceedingly bitter way in which a Sydney even-
ing newspaper speaks of the Women’s Exhibition, I am
Inclined to think that the committee must have placed
the somebody’s second cousin’s sampler under the table, or
his niece by marriage’s crewels on the roof. Listen to him:
“ There are many excellent articles shown,” he says, “ the
work of skilful and willing hands, but their work has been
practically sacrificed to the vanity and incapacity of those
who have so pertinaciously handicapped Lady (jarington
with their services.” Then he says that “ The public has
gauged the Women’s Industrial Exhibition at its true
value—a movement not so much for the benefit of de-
serving poor women as for the glorification of undeserving
rich ones.” He concludes with that, and it's time he did.
A man should never write sub-leaders when he’s sur-
rounded with angry female relatives.
Sydney Hunt Club held a very pleasant meeting at
Rosehill racecourse on Gth October, when, as the sport-
ing papers say, “a large number of the fair sex patronised
lawn and stand." And the fair sex had got ’em all on,
too. One charming frook was built of cream silk ornate
with gold galoon, yellow gloves, dark-green velvet hat,
with masses of pale-gold ostrich plumes. Then I spied
out an ivory silk with which was worn a crimson plush
mantelette, wide leghorn hat almost weighed do wn with
white feathers ; a sage-green cashmere, white silk vest
and sage-green bonnet smothered in saffron roses and
foliage ; shot grey and rose silk, en Directoire, decorated
with glittering gilt, brown gauze bonnet with gilt lace
and saffron roses and brown leaves —and dozens of others.
It has often made your Sappho marvel muchly why the
Sydney mashers don't do the Block yawning, because
“ that’s Carington, you know." Perhaps, however—
If the average dude did the “ Carington yawn ”
(It’s called so in “circles perlite,” understand !)
He would surely repent it 1 As sure as he’s born 1
For a yawn is concealed, dontchewknow, with one’s hand
And the dude’s mouth is hem—such a generous space
That his hand couldn’t hide half the gap in his face !
Don’t you think that's a “slap-up” exegesis of this pheno-
menal Indifference to vice-regal precedent ?
An enthusiastic Kiaman wires to the S M.H., in re the
recent railway-opening down there—” The S M IL was
delivered 21 hours earlier than heretofore. This is one of
the benefits due to the direct railway communication with
Sydney.” Comment is needless, yet I cannot refrain
from gently enquiring, “If that is considered one of the
benefits, what would be regarded as an irreparable injury
in the land of butter and religious intolerance ?”
I am requested to acquaint a listening world with the
fact that “ the bachelors of Wanaaring had a splash the
other night,” which I do not think could have been a
great success, as my correspondent regretfully desires me
to state that “ Mrs Mac was not there.” No reason
is assigned for her rash act in staying away.
Lord and Lady Carington attended the first floral fete
at the Women’s Exhibition on the afternoon of the !ith
inst. They afterwards attended the concert, and before
tearing themselves away from the dazzling scene, partook
of high tea in the refreshment department; and that’g
just what makes me y earn to lend my r shoulder for their
Excellencies to lean and weep upon, for “all the re-
freshments are dispens'd by amateurs 1 ’
At the Women’s Industrial Exhibition I noticed a collec-
tion of shirts in various stages of repair, illustrative of the
washerwoman’s art, and on some of these shirts I read the
names of tin o - ners, whereat I could feel myself blushing
to the ears. Why I should have blushed I know not,
but I did, ml I really believe that if Mr. Smith or Mr.
Carington, or whoever had his name on the shirt, had
been led up to and publicly confronted with that garment
he also would have blushed. Why he should blush I
know not, but I am certain he would blush.
Says “ Moree Bealiba ” in the S.M. Herald’s Women’s
Column ; “ As a matter of fact, the organisation of such
a fair as the Women’s Industrial Exhibition is, in its
way, as great an undertaking as the Melbourne Exhibi-
tion (!) And what a different result the two open-
ing days showed! The one (that’s the W.E. of
course) “ complete, attractive, harmonious ; the other
discord, disorder, and debris.” This is soothing
to the N.S.W. amour propre, but to discount
“ Moree Bealiba’s ” statements comes an indignant
“Exhibitor,” drawing public attention to the “mis-
management and favouritism shown in the arrangements
of the Exhibits ” at the W. E. The fancy-work exhibits
of those who are not personal friends of the committee
are placed on top of each other, and pictures sent by those
outside the social wire-fence, are placed as low down as
possible, whilst the exhibits of Potts and Darling Pointers
are given choice of positions, and displayed to the utmost
advantage. At least that’s what “Exhibitor” complains
of in the daily press. Now, if such assertions are true, how
on earth can the W. E. be “harmonious,” with the back-
ground filled in with girls letting their angry passions rise
over the way the committee have disposed of their
woollen bootees, &c., &c. ? “Moree Bealiba” certainly
assures us that “ all is right as right can be,” but, after
such sad contradictions, I am afraid we can no “Moree
bealiba,” can we ?
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
[lnteresting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.]
There is a good deal of fiction in real life.
The poor old Argus has put Ps gouty old
foot in it rather more foolishly than usual. Editor
Haddon turned on one of bis gifted staff' to “ do ”
an article on the current London ’trocities, and
this addled fragment of criminal history duly
graced the infallible horgan : —“The nearest ap-
proach to the horror which now appears to prevail
in the capital of the empire (!!!) in recent times,
was when the man Briggs robbed and murdered an
inoffensive citizen who was travelling with the
criminal in an otherwise empty railway carriage. ”
That Argus writer, dash our wigs !
Is palpably off colour :
’Twas Muller murdered Mr. Briggs,—
Not Briggs who murdered Muller.
The German, Franz Muller, died a violent death
also. That inoffensive citizen washanged at New-
gate about the same time that a large monument
was reared over the mangled remains of his aged
victim, Briggs, twenty-three years ago.
About Women.
She: “Now, Captain Murphy, if you
don’t at once cease your flatteries, I shall have to
hold both my ears shut.” “My adorable Miss
O Dowd,” gallantly answered the bow Id officer,
“ Your purty little hands are far too shmall for
that.”— Ancient Chronicler,
He had a bad memory and a variegated
female acquaintance, and when he raised hia hat
and said in his courtliest tones, “ I think we have
met before ?” she answered, “Well, I should
think so, considering you were in the next cell to
me, and I sent a policeman out with my bangle to
pop for our fines, and never heard another word
from you.”
“The plaintiff says,” recited the judges
“ that you often deserted her ; that you subjected
her to shameful treatment; that even you often
struck her brutally. You call yourself a man and
strike a woman of 25 ?” The wife, who is in the
court-room weeping, with her face in her hands,
raises it tflddenly at this and exclaims : “ I beg
pardon, Monsieur le President, only 24 years.”—
Figaro.
Mr. Michael Van Flanigan, formerly of
Chicago, having purchased a villa at Newport, has
just had it furnished regardless of cost.— Societv
Notes, Mr. R. (furnisher and decorator): “Now,
sir, your house has the magnificence of an Oriental
potentate, except, of course, the—er—seraglio.”
Mrs. Michael Van Flanigan (proudly to her hus-
band): “Mike, dear, spare no expense, let us
have one,”— Life.
Thomas Jefferson’s compliments had an
odour of Versailles about them. On one occasion
a lady at an evening party called his attention to
some flowers in her bosom, which were exotics but
recently imported. Jefferson, admiring them
greatly, inquired their name. She replied by
giving their Linnsean designation. “ Dear me ! ”
said he, “ I thought they were a new species of
primrose.” “Primrose, Mr. Jefferson? ’” “Yes,
madam, from the snow around them.” —American.
A traveller in Central America writes
“It was at a ball here that I discovered a novel
use for the ordinary ladies’ shoe-polish. Nearly
all the girls’ dresses were stained black, or a
scrubby brown, around the waist, back, and
breast, or any place where they would touch a
man while dancing with him. I asked a young
German girl what caused the stains. She told me
that the gentlemen blacked the gray-worn seams
of their coats, or any other threadbare part, with
ladies’ shoe polish.”
It was dusk one evening, and in the
churchyard of a Northern village the parish sex-
ton noticed a woman. She approached with
stealthy step a grave in which a man had been
buried, and the sexton, thinking her manner
somewhat strange, followed her. When she ar-
rived at the grave she took a handful of grass-
seeds from her reticule and sprinkled them upon
the earth. “Ah, grass will grow there soon
enough, mum,” said the old sexton. “Yes, I
dare say it will,” replied the woman; “but my
dear husband when he died made me promise not
to marry again until the grass grew upon his
grave. To tell you the truth, I have just had a
good offer, and as I don’t mind how soon the grass
grows, I thought there would be no harm in sow-
ing some seed. ” She was a grass-widow in earnest.
— German.
Mrs. Anna Longshore Potts, M.D., pro-
fesses to know more about women than any mortal
who ever undertook to lecture upon the difficult
problem. This learned lady has got the anatomy
of those curious creatures down to a very fine
point, and will give in detail the reason why they
smile, why they blush, and why their nice little
ribs should not be contracted by tight lacing. But
there are many important and interesting points
upon which Mrs. Longshore Potts is silent. Why
does a woman invariably sit upon the floor when
she is about to take off her boots ! Here is a
question which has for years perplexed thegravest
and most experienced philosophers. Mrs. Long-
shore Potts cannot evade the question by the
statement that the lady’s clothes are so tight that
the contraction of the leg when seated upon a
chair is a difficult and embarrassing feat. Not
so. It is well known among those sages who have
ever witnessed a lady disrobing that her boots are
the very last article from which she relieves her-
self. They say that the gymnastic performance
of a lady shedding her boots is neither graceful or
inspiring. Why does not Mrs. Longshore Potts
give us an illustration of this, and bringing her
profound knowledge of anatomy to bear upon the
subject, show the members of her own sex how
the boot act may be invested with some poetic
quality ? Many a bridegroom has had his mar-
riage life embittered by the illusion inevitable to
his first inspection of this important portion of
preparation for the night’s repose.
NEWSLETTER.
At a Salvation Army soiree at Caatlemaine
(Vie.), the conductor beat time with a carrot.
There’s nothing better for leading asses.
The N.S.W. gold-yield for the year shows
an increase of 13,413 ounces. The silver and lead
yield exhibits a still greater improvement. The
figures for 1887 are £574,410 against £492,029 for
1886. Of the total yield £394,790 of silver and
£09,400 of lead came from Broken Hill alone.
The value of the N.S.W. coal-yield has increased
and was last year £1,346,440.
A beautiful development of the free-pass
system has come to pass in America. In 1836 the
Boston and Providence Railroad obtained a piece
of land from Mr. John Dodge, in return for which
they gave him an eternal ticket for himself and
family to travel with until called upon to inhabit
a better land Dodge is dead now and so is the
family, but a grand-daughter spends most of her
life on the rolling-stock with the free pass ; and
when the company contended at law that the
pasteboard covered only one generation of Dodges
the Court ruled against them, and decided that so
long as a living Dodge remains to tread earth’s
flowery mound he must be carried free as often as
he likes to travel.
KEMP v. HANLAN.
THE REASON OF THE CANADIAN’S
DEFEAT.
Considerable interest is still shown by the public
in the late boatrace, and many people are puzzling
their heads in vain to account for the easy manner
in which Peter Kemp won. Edward Hanlan says
he never tried after fouling his opponent, because
he reckoned that foul made the race his. Those
who know how the two men trained give a very
different reason for the result. They know that
Peter Kemp drank the famous St Louis Lager
Beer with bis meals, and so did his trainer, and
Edward Hanlan didn’t, and that’s what’s the
matter, and don’t yen forget it.


A RADICAL REFORM.
I I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims th
V-J housemother at her breakfast-table on th
Monday morning. Although the above absur
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yt
every woman well knows its meaning when sh
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. Th
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly dutie
are as far as possible set aside, the children kep
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to wast
time and to prolong tne agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where “ washin
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard
pressed mother knows the wretchedness am
gloom which the present washing-day brings dowi
upon the household. In the early morning all i
prepared for the all-important washerwoman
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soile<
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuse
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it ma;
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day
The children are packed off to school, and thei
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife
anxious to get everything finished in good time
and the professional laundress, equally anxious t(
make the work last over two days. With thi
greatest impartiality the laundress divides hei
attention between the discussion of light refresh
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals ol
time being filled up with a gentle applicatior
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensibh
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly al
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in tin
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellov
tinge. This is the experience of all who have usee
such machines, and the reason is easily explained,
All body linen contains a certain proportion ol
albuminous substances, which, although readilj
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the applicatior
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“ boiling ” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “ rocking machines ” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
under pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine
has to he rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
0m
WS-jiS
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The two above-described “Steaming” and
“Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel, The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
made Fun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine, We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 486 Geoegb Strkrt,
4YHNWV
Her MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison
uoors open 7 Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.4r
EVERY EVENING,
at half-past 7,
rr . Shakespeare’s Great Tragedy,
HAMLET. HAMLET. HAMLET
Prices, 5s., 3s., 2s., Is.
Box T P1 an open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 6
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Grand crystal palace
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band every afternoon
and evening; conductor, Mr. Geo. Vassie.
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING GRAND SPECIAL
NIGHT.
LADIES, Is.; GENTLEMEN, 2s.
\LFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Alhambra music hall,
George Street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Grand Sacred and Classical concert
every
. SUNDAY NIGHT at 7.30.,
when will be rendered a choice and select Pro-
gramme, under the conductorship of
Mr. CHAS. AUSTIN.
SEE DAILY PAPERS OF SATURDAY.
H
A L.
KATRE ROY
i- Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar j Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
CARRIE SWAIN,
in her Great Success,
the tomboy.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Mackay’s.
0 N D I
AQUARIUM,
B
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL-
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr, BROUGH and Mr, BOUCICAULT.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J, MAGEE.
LAST NIGHTS
of
Mr, GEORGE LEITCH.
GIGANTIC and LEGITIMATE SUCCESS
of the. POWEREUL DOMESTIC COMEDY DRAMA, bv
GEORGE RALPH WALKER, Esq..
‘ SIT HORS TO GRIND ”
“ SITHORS TO GRIND.”
ADMISSION—5s., 3s., 2s., and One Shilling.
Box Office open daily at Nicholson’s Music
Warehouse.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER,
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS
of
OUR BLONDINETTES.
AL. W. FILSON and MISS LEE ERROL
AMERICAN SKETCH and COMEDY
ARTISTS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 2s., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
B
OTANYI
BOTANY 1
BOTANY
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30
Gband Sacred and Classical Oonobbt o;
Well-known Aetists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest 1—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Ohas. Austin
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
Mfl flflft K iv en away to buyers of a Bottle of Bread albane
£• W)UUW Whisky. Shipped by Alex. Ferpuson and Co.,
Glasgow. Particulars from all Wine Merchants, Store-
keepers, Hotel-keepers and Spirit Dealers. Wholesale
Agents—A. Hilder and Co., Sydney.
s. FREEMAN A SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURES 8.
Batbo'i Bakin* 1 Forint Orient Smn Sloe,
EGG A CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD A CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, mm SEEBBET,
Ac., Ac.
STEAM WORKSj
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
M®lac i r i n a
This most Celebrated Brand of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES
Has now the LARGEST SALE in the World.
M. Mclachrluo «V Co., Cairo, and 81 Cockspnr
Street, London,
Are by appointment Purveyors to H.R.H. Dukb op Con-
naught, H.R.H. Prinob Hbnry of Prussia, the Courts
and Ambassadors of Europe,
The KHEDIVAL CLUB ... Cairo & Alexandria
99
ARMY and NAVY
CLUB
}
London
„ GUARDS’ CLUB ... London
„ CARLTON CLUB ... London
and over
100 leading British and Continental Clubs.
The ROYAL ARTILLERY}
Woolwich, and 30
other Stations
BLACK WATCH
}
Perth, Dublin and
Malta
COLDSTREAM
GUARDS
Windsor
ROYAL ENGINEERS}
Chatham, Alder-
shott and Cairo.
m LIFE GUARDS ... London
and
150 other Regimental Messes of the British Army.
WARREN& ROHM,
Sole Agents,
14 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers of the Choicest Brands of
mm, UANIHA aid GERM CIGARS
S3t Sole Agents for tlie Cademeno Brand of
Egyptian Cigarette.
Fresh supplies arrive by every Mail Steamer. Cigarettes
always fresh and fragrant. Price Lists forwarded on
application.
£2O
Bli CKBO ARI> BIICMES
£2O
Regular shipments of the Best Buckboaid
Buggies in the World, with all Improvements,
box under seat, size, 28 xl6 x 6in, deep, patent
spring footboard, break, lamps, cushions, and
shafts, are light running and short, and for
durability and style cannot be surpassed at any
Price. Four Passenger Buckboards with pole,
&c., £27. F. 0.8. rail or steamer. Send for
Illustrated Catalogue of Carriages. The largest
and most completely equipped Coach Works in
Australasia. Call and see us. Terms : Cash; or
Banker’s Reference. COPE and NEWMAN,
Importers and Builders of Fine Carriages, Boggo
Road, Brisbane (South).
Under distinguished Patronage.
COMMENCING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16.
FOR FIVE CONSECUTIVE NIGHTS
MISS AMY SHERWIN’S
Last Appearance in Sydney, Prior to her departure
for Europe, Supported by the following Artistes :
Miss MINA FISCHER, Mezzo-Soprano
Mr. HENRY STOCKWELL, Tenor
Mr. ARTHUR SHERWIN, Baritone
Mr. GEO. GLUTS AM, Pianist and Accompanist
Mr. JOHN LEMONE, the Great Flautist.
POPULAR PROGRAMMES.
Change of Programme Every Evening.
Box Plan for the Five Nights now open at
Paling’s. Reserved Seats, ss. ; Family Tickets of
FIVE for £1; Gallery, 35.; Organ Gallery, 2s,
G. A. SHERWIN, Manager.
HUGO GORLITZ, Acting Manager.
HALL.
THE
‘ PLUM
Hazar.
g
THE
" PLUM
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price—Single Razor, 10s. 6d
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
O" Nine Haircutters always Employed 1 "BS
680 GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
NEWEST INTENTION—GRATEST NOVELTY.
' '
L; -' r
THE
&
Patent Diagonal Scam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says;—“ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no
strain. They are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
ship all that could be desired.”
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1888
Gold Medal, Highest Award
For Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
latest Award ! !! Gold Medal Interna*
tlonal Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAUTION .—Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oral.
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
in
NEW T 0 N AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
FULL* SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
[ELF- ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing In canvas, if required, 2s. 6<L extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of designs ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
S 3
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari.
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
df
Drawing room oabi.
NETS.
Early English
Chippendalr Designs,
Newton & Lamb,
PIANOFORI.es by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISOH, L. NEUFBLD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
g
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A VIBT dOKFftIBI
Abboetmbss,
Many quite new design*.
Nbwtok & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
lnvalids and Medical Men.
KOCKING EASY CH a IRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality, Newton & Lamb.
1J
■
TT> KDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
df
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,j
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.)
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory i
SPRTNO * O’CONNELL STREETS.


SATURDAY, 27th OCTOBER,
On, tine G-xotuad., at Tlxree ©’clods.
U rj\ I rp |99
Tara! Tara!
O’SHANNASSY ESTATE.
□Tlae Very Cream of Camberwell.
Right on Camberwell Railway .
RETURN TRAINS
■HaBBMBHBHHHBBnBHBEBMBKBSaaHBHBBK
The most Gigantic Sale ever held in the annals of
the Colony of Victoria.
This lovely spot was purchased by Sir JOHN O’SHANNASSY originally from the Govern-
ment, and will now be subdivided into
BUSINESS AND RESIDENCE SITES.
BURKE, CANTERBURY AND OTHER ROADS.
Title, - CERTIF i CI P 1' E.
Solicitors - - FINK, BEST and PH!LUPS.
Terms; <£lo Deposit; Balance 3,6, 12 and 18
months at 6 per cent.
PLANS FROM
ft 0. LANGUAGE &
AUCTIONEERS,
4 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.


Business Announcements.
BARBERS’
SUPPLY
HOUSE.
Hairdressers
COMMENCING BUSINESS
AS WELL AS THOSE
Already Established,
WILL FIND AT
CRAIG & AITKEN’S
NEW SOUTH WALES
Barbers’ Supply
HOUSE,
SHAMPOOING APPARATUS,
American and Colonial Hairdressing Chain
SCISSORS, COMBS, BRUSHES,
Mirrors, Hot Water Urns,
AND
Iff EVERY RE4|I 131 TE '•>&
AT
FHICES WHICH DEFY COMPETITION!
Agents for the Celebrated
‘PLUM
BRAND op
Razors & Scissors.
COMPLETE
Saloon Outfit
FROM
<£lo UPWARDS.
ASSISTANTS ENGAGED
FOR
Town and Country Customers.
Note Address—
(lrak ft Aitken
New South Wales
Barbers Supply
HOUSE,
682 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Price List Posted on Application.
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.—To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthened and beautifier of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kaltdor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden
London.*
WESTERS AUSTRALIA
may be summed up as
the coming colony, and
the relation in which it will stand toward Austra-
lasia will evidently be one of great influence.—
E. Favenc
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Possesses Copper, Lead, Tin, Gold, Silver and
Iron Ore in abundance. Her climate is mild and
healthy, her timber —especially the Jarrah —is re-
nowned for its durability and usefulness. Great
railways are being constructed connecting PERTH,
the Capital City, with the interior.
Telegrams respecting the Gold Discoveries ap-
pear almost daily in the newspapers.
The Colony is going right ahead on its prosperous
way. Investors are now offered a rare chance of
securing Blocks of Land almost in Perth, the
Capital City of this coming Colony, for a
“mere song.
The EVELEIGH ESTATE,
Perth, Western Australia,
Only about half-a-mile from the city, fronting a
Government road, excellently situated, good build-
ing land, must return a handsome profit to buyers.
ONLY £lO EACH BLOCK.
£1 deposit; balance 10s. monthly. No interest.
Torren’s Title. Free deeds to purchasers of 5 lots.
Marked Plans and Pamphlets containing valu-
able information posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment tommy, Limited,
96 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
gdf
ei
s
T
DELISSAs. PHILLIPS
3 iO Barrack Street.
g
&
o
O
r
A
<b
: , 3
r:
A
o
9
v
O
*
9
9
&
&
O
&
<b
:\
V-
O
0
v
: =
r\
S*
9
0
390 a GEORGE S T -
BYDWESY,
William's Australian Insecticide Is death to all Insed
Simple in application—sure in effect. This Is the on
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to anim
life, and therefore may be used without the slights
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquito
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odou
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufacture
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 Kin
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Blllott Bros
and K. Prosser & Co.*
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rooslllon, Madeira
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines ar
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-streel, nnde
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
SEASON, 1888 and 1889
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THI
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tattersall’s Club, Sydney and Vie
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STBEBT, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Ourren
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at th
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part o
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name anc
address.
I F E PRESERVATION
Db. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 LONSDAtB StBHBT BAST, MbLBOCENB
This work Is a medical treatise describing ao
curately, faithfully and concisely the Funotiona
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in
discretions and other enervating influences wit!
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to al
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy anc
reliable curative treatment without the aid o;
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. Gd. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 4 A’Beckett Street West, Melbourne.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1871.
CAPITAL, £600,009.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant immediate Advances upon
Deeds of Land, Bills of Lading, Merchandise,
Storage and Bond Certificates, Machinery, Cattle,
Personal Guarantee, and all classes of Mercantile
or approved securities, for fixed terms, or repay-
able by instalments at very reasonable rates of in-
terest. Bills discounted daily.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS s
S months, 6 per cent.
® n ® »i
12 „ 7
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1J per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers, Apply,
3n lletin Office.
TEA AMD MABTMRN MERCHANTS.
HO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
I I
FOR ALL
iSTEnsarrs
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
P&RTIOOL&R ATTENTBOM TO THE BUYINB OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES 9 SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
Tha Beat Manufacturing iasstilnss In Exlstengs.
F&RLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS, W
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
ids Ageals foe the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, Including Machine?*
Imported Leathers, fto. s and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH’
NUBIAN BLACKING i Tauae?*’ Tool* and Materials, Indents eieeotsd on Favourable TeraDi*
Business Announcements.
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twi
or three times a day ) a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for ramov
Ing all Impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will And
those Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of yonr
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, SO, 1886,
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In reoom*
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for It without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
0. R.
Tamwortb, August SI, 1886.
UPJOHN, J.F,
Read an expression of thankfulness received
the undersigned i—
“ I have for many years been obliged to '
medicines of different kinds for affections of
liver, Indigestion, pain In the chest, general de
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them,
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt,
MbiiMi Rdi Bow and Company, Sydney, 11
DOWS
tvEMBROCATION
'^EVER^WHERE'
f 3 /6
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSBPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. B. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson's Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROWS
STBANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen i
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STKANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“)Signed) Wit. Henderson, J.P,
Then try them, and ask for ROW'S STHANI
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW, ROW and COMPANY,


Business Announcements
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X v
XX
X X
XX
XX
X X
XX
XX
XX
X X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
HORDERN,
TAILOR,
Pitt Street.
B R TJ If T O If’S
BOYAL PATENT STEEL BOLLEB
FLOUR
Orb be obtained throughout New South Wale*
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... ... 84 Pitt Stebbh.
BRISBANE... ... ...Bdwabd Stbbbt.
MELBOURNE Sphwohb Htb»»p.
Medical.
More than 70,000 Cases already Cured !
The Greatest Success
of Modern Times.
CONSULT
f All Chronic Disease
\ are Curable.
Ur, H, E, EBSEUAH, Consuhing Eclectic,
Skilled Specialist for all Chronic Diseases,
60 WILLIAM ST It LET, MKLIIVIK.VE,
Any sufferers unable to call can write for a list of ques-
tions (free) by which they can be treated equally well at
any distance.
Mr. Kugelmann’s treatment differs from all others
known, and is perfectly unique and original to himself. If
you are suffering from any form of disease do not fail to
obtain a Personal Consultation (Free), as he never falls to
understand the producing causes of all Chronic Diseases,
and will tell you at once what it is, and the cost for a
complete cure. You can then have treatment or not, as
you may prefer. No Mineral Drugs or Poisons are ever
used by him.
Read the following Testimonial, one of thousands more:
[COPY.]
Glenhope, 19th July 1886
To H, E Kcgblmann, Esq., Professor of Natural
Science, &o.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Frank B. B. Knight,
Of Glenhope, was taken ill with a severe cough about July,
1883, but, thinking it was only a severe cold, I did not
take any notice of it for about six months, when I com-
menced to expectorate blood and matter very freely. I
then thought it was time to consult a medical man, and I
went into Heathcote, and was treated for four months, but
without receiving any benefit. I then consulted a doctor
in Kyneton of considerable repute for six months, and,
although 1 failed to obtain the slightest relief, he told me
that i was all right, only requiring warm weather to com-
plete the cure, which statement I did not believe, and
accordingly consulted another doctor in Kyneton, and
informed him of the statement of my previous medical
attendant, when he informed me that I was in a most un-
healthy state, and prescribed for me, and after treating me
for five months, he honestly informed me that my case was
incurable, and that it was useless to attend him any longer,
and he advised me not to take any more chemists’ medi-
oitteS, as all 1 had taken for the last 15 months was poison.
I then pressed him for a true statement of my case, and he
very reluctantly infcirmed me that I was suffering from
Ulcerated liuUgs or Consumption, and that I was quite in-
ofirable. During the time I was attended by the above
doctors, I was not able to lie down in my bed, and ex-
fiecto rated nlany quarts of blood and matter from my
uiigs, and I lost weight rapidly. About this time I saw
your advertisement and decided to consult you, which I
did in March, 1885, when you greatly astonished me by
informing me minutely of the exact nature of my com-
plaint without my giving you any information, and even
without your having sounded or examined me. But my
astonishment was greatly increased when you told me that
you could guarantee to cure me upon a definite agreement,
which 1 gladly availed myself of. After having taken your
medicines for a month I was considerably worse ; expec-
torating very much, and throwing up several pieces of
skin from my lungs about the size of the palm of my hand;
but after this crisis I commenced to improve very fast.
After three months’treatment the expectoration and cough
entirely left me, and I had gained over two stone in weight,
a result which my friends considered little short of mira-
culous, as all expected I would soon die ; and from that
time (thanks to your most wonderful skill and ability) I
have not felt any return of my complaint, and my lungs
are as strong as ever they were, and I can do as good and
as hard a day’s work as I ever did. lam sure that people
diseased and suffering should avail themselves of your
treatment, and not delay as I did until I was given up to
die.—l remain, ever thankfully yours FRANK E. B.
KNIGHT.
Witness—J. 0. DANIEL, Glenhope.
Declared before me this sth day of August, 18S6, at
Kyneton.—THOMAS A. EWING, J.P.
£2T All Consultations Free. U
Notice.—lf preferred, a Signed Agreement given which
provides that No Cost is incurred in the event of Curb
not being Effected.
4 SOTESEISS SEMES!
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tio
Dolobeux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Faina when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM'S RHEUMATIC FILLS
will give Instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, is., 3s. 6d., 65., and 19a.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to bo the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
fl. L ROSE, Pharmaceutical Gheaiit,
581 Georare-Etrast. only.
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin, for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office,
CORNER OF
MARY AND MARKET STREETS, BRISBANE.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
Supervision of a Continental Chef.
r
r~^/
COSGROVE
tsfflwwmi
ioif
'Mh
Ladies’ Drawing-Rooms. Reading and
Smoking Rooms. Night Porter
D. COSGROVE (Late of Lennon’s Hotel) ... ... Proprietress.
CLARENDON tfCITEL, Manly.
TJBCH3 SRXGKiBHFOXT GW Kr„B.W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc.,
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most reoherokt
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Tablt
d» Hdta at 1 o'clock dally and Sundays, No expense Is spared by Mrs. Kilminhtick to make bar
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best In the colony.
Hrs. KIUNIHSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
nrvoKiT* OCEAN BEACH. MAMLT.
||LL«H A.MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Gaseittkrs, Ship & General Smiths, Art & Medieval Metal Workers
Roller Skates (any make) with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at Greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS, » Macquarie Place, Sydney, and Stanmore Road, Petersham.
W erdriau €§& do. f
INDIA ROBBER MANUFACTURERS,
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDNEY.
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber goods for all purposes.
Lists and Samples on Application.
LEA&PERRINS'SAUCE
d
fg
Recreation • Instruction Amusement!
l&W tub latestJand most fascinating recreation IS
PHOTOa-KAPHT!
PLEASURE and PROFIT!
ft-V-.»
sAa
4*®)
,">
/%
"' ; i
/»
r ' •
l,»S^
PA®
rt
sSS**^
;i~-w
&&*«£
mm**
n
fc^pg
*-BKp*'
p*«.
L£*
PLEASURE and PROFIT!
Largest Stock at Lowest Prices for the Amateur and Professional Photographer.
INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
Commodious DARK ROOM and SKILFUL ATTENDANTS at the Service of our Patrons-
Call ami see ns or send for our Catalogues.
LIOHTJNEe. & CO,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, akd
9, HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST., BRISBANE,
Assurance Companies.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 17 Via.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... ». m 41,000,008
Paid-up and Subscribed ... m 483,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, E.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Baa., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman,
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 8 years _ 7 per cent. I For 1 year _ 0 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per cent. | For 8 months— 8 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, nnder the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hiad Of non—lo, &12 HUNTER STREET
JNoTc. NEILD. Manager.
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office —87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors:
J. P. ABBOTT, Esq., M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officerj
JAS. O. COX, M.D.
Actuary j
MORRIOE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEEOE, F.I.A.
This Society Is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated funds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been two
full years in force.
ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
The Australian Mercantile Loan I Guarantee
COMPANY, Limited.
Capital £500,000.
Sydney OStesi Cornet of Market & York Streets,
Accident, Insurance and Guarantee Department.
General Accidents, Employers’ Liability,
Fidelity Guarantee Policies
Issued on the most Favourable Terms,
Proposal Forms and Tables of Rates upon
application.
Robt. B. Wallace - Accident Superintendent.
The Company also, in its Banking and Commercial
Departments, make Immediate Advances upon Deeds of
Land and all classes of Commercial Securities.
DEPOSITS received at 12 months, 7 per cent.; six
months, 6 per cent.; and three months, 5 per cent., and
bonus at maturity.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL,
General Manager.
Business Announcements.
K'NG’S ¥>EW S
Oe SYDNEY,
JENOLAN OAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&C*f &G«y
315 BSORBE ST., between Hunter-st. asi B.P.D.
TATTERS ALL’S
imm commimii
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities in
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s,” care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney. Per.
sons making applications for Tickets a r e requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, ona
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
FOR SALE.—Two grand Water Frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.


J. & J. Hayes, Li m i ted.
MILLERS & GRAIN MERCHANTS,
GOULBURN and ALBURY.
Registered under the Joint Stock Companies Act, 1874.
Capital: £BO,OOO, in 80,000 Shares of £1 each.
IN JAV Sf' 1 ■*- 1T uo r r - i . -r\ ■
n, ' 1 ' *
Of this number 30,000 Shares, paid up to 155., will be taken by the Vendors in part payment of the purchase money, and the balance,
50,000, Shares are offered to the public on the following terms :—2s. 6d. on application, 2s. 6d. on allotment 2s, 6d. at three months,
2s. 6d. at six months, 2s. 6d. at nine months, and 2s. 6d. at twelve months. It is not anticipated that more than 15s. per share will be
called up, but if it should be necessary calls of not more than 2s. 6d, per share, at intervals of not less than three months, may be
made for the balance.
Customers have Priority of Application to the extent of 15,000 Shares.
JOHN SEE, Esq., M.L.A., Sydney.
JOHN M‘ILWKAJTH, Esq., Melbourne.
PROVISIONAL INRIXTORS:
A. 6. EINEAY, Esq., Goulburn
HENRY WESCOTT, Esq., Botany.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Goulburn.
J. S. HAYES, Esq., Managing Director.
AGENTS FOR VEMIOKS :
SYDNEY AGENCY and EINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
JAMES BURNS, Esq.
The Directors of which are the following—
ALFRED W. MEEKS, Esq.
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq.
WILLIAM E. WILSON, Esq.
EDMUND H. TAYLOR, Esq.
BANKERS :
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
SOLICITOR:
G. J. SLY, 32a York Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY s
GEO. E. WINDON, 115 York Street, Sydney.
BROKERS :
L. AARONS, 77 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BOLOER & HARTLEY, 6 Market Buildings, Collins Street West, Melbourne.
The objects of this Company are to acquire and
carry on the Patent Roller Milling Business of
J. and J. Hayes, City Mills, Goulburn and Albury,
carried on by them for the last 20 j ears.
The sole reason for putting those valuable busi-
nesses into a Limited Company is tha,t one of the
partners desires to retire ; the remaining partner,
Mr. J. S. Hayes, will not part with his interest,
but will take the whole of it in shares, and will
agree to act as managing director for three years,
at a salary to be fixed by the Directors.
The property to be taken over by the Company
comprises the City Roller Flour Mills, freehold
land, centrally situated, corner of Auburn and
Clinton Streets, Goulburn, having 150 ft. frontage
to Auburn-street. The mill buildings are exten-
sive and substantially built of brick, 80ft. x 30ft.,
our floors.
The roller plant is of the very best description
and was specially selected for treating Australian
wheat by one of the firm after visiting the principal
roller mills in Europe and America.
The wheat-cleaning machinery is of the best and
latest design.
The engine is a Corliss, built specially to order
by Allis and Co., Milwaukee, and indicates 150
horse-power. There are three boilers, two in
regular use, one being reserved to save delay in
cleaning.
Adjoining the mill is an iron store for wheat,
capable of storing 10,000 bags. Detached from
the main building there is a galvanised iron store
capable of storing 15,000 bags of wheat. There
are also at the railway stations at Cootamundra
and Gerogery galvanised iron sheds for storing
wheat to the extent of 12,000 bags.
The offices adjoin the mill and have every con-
venience.
Below is a report from Messrs. A. D. Nelson
and Co., millwrights, engineers, &c., Hay-street,
Darling Harbour, prepared by them on 26th July,
of the Goulburn mill alone ;
“ In compliance with your request we have gone
into the question of value of your Mill, Land,
Wheat Store, and Working Plant situated at
Goulburn. As a going concern we herewith
value the same at a sum of £30,000 (Thirty Thou-
sand Pounds),
(Signed)
“ A. D. NELSON and CO.,
“ Milling Engineers.”
The whole of the mill and offices are lighted by
Electricity.
The property at Albury consists of Freehold
land, 91ft. frontage to Townsend street, with a
depth of 330 ft.
This mill is also in thorough working order and
in splendid condition, every care being bestowed
on its erection, and the Roller Plant is of the best
type and design.
The mill, land, and plant is valued at £5OOO
(Five Thousand' Pounds).
There is also storage room for 6600 bags of
wheat in Detached Galvanised Iron Store.
At present the output at Goulburn is 130 tons
per week.
~ „ ~ Albury is 60
Or a total of 190 tons
per week, and which could be increased without
any further expenditure.
With these properties will be taken the goodwill
of the business and the registered trade mark.
The price asked by the proprietors for mills,
land, stores, working plant, goodwill and trade
mark “Lily of the Valley,” is £45,000, of which
£22,500 is payable in cash in instalments, and the
balance in shares. The stock of wheat, which is
large, can be taken by the Company at cost price
or at market value, at the Directors’ option ; and
the vendors will accept payment for same as con-
sumed or as may be arranged.
The business of Messrs. J. and J. Hayes has for
years past been acknowledged one of the Premier
Milling Businesses of New South Wales; their
well-known brand of flour, “ Lily of the Valley,”
having always commanded a higher price per ton
of any brand, and the demand for it by regular
customers keeps the Mill employed to the extent
of its present requirements.
That the business is a most lucrative one the
subjoined Certificate, furnished by Messrs.
Starkey and Taylor, Chartered Accountants, of
Empire Chambers, 115 York street, will show
“We certify that the net profits on the Goul-
burn business for the past four years are
£43,132 Us. lid., and we are satisfied that the
business can be further extended without any
additional capital, and is a most successful under*
taking.
(Signed) “ STARKEY and TAYLOR,
“ Chartered Accountants.
“ 24th August, 1888.
“ P.S.—We are informed that the Albury
business has been yielding a net profit of £l5OO
per year.”
The Vendors, as a proof of their confidence in
the business, will guarantee 10 per cent, per an-
num on the paid-up capital for a period of three
years and will deposit shares to the value of
£lO,OOO as a security for the fulfilment of the
guarantee.
The only charges to be paid by the Company
will be brokerage and advertising, and the pro-
prietors will agree not to be connected with any
other milling interest in the colony for ten years.
The Board of Directors will be elected from the
list of shareholders immediately the Company is
formed, Mr. J. S. Hayes acting as Managing
Director.
Application for Shares may be sent to either of
the offices at Goulburn or Albury.
J. and J. HAYES, Limited.
Form of Application for Shares.
To the Broker :
Sir, —I hereby apply f or Shares in the above Company and enclose herewith the sum of £ being
application of 2s. 6d. per share thereon, and I hereby agree to accept the said shares, or any less number that may be allotted to me, and
on such allotment to pay the further sums required by the Prospectus, and to sign the Deed of Association when called upon to do so.
Name in full . :
Occupation
Address
Signature
Date,—. , 1888.
