

“TIRED NATURE’S KIND RESTORER.”
CLEMENTS’
Quinine and iron tonic
IS THE ONLY
ST -a
RELIABLE RESTORATIVE
°rg ail i < 0 5 um ' ,nS( ; llse principle in Australia, and the only one which contains the essential mineral elements so necessary to the
is th e SUI * Jr l°fniation of Muscles, Bones, &c., which are present in such small quantities in Australian food. Clements’
as it supplies the system with its necessary chemical food, fortifies the system against disease, strengthens
° r^ ans ’ renews the Health, Vigor, and Energy of the Nervous System, Increases the Appetite, and supplies the
6 requisite brain food.
stS>n» young or old this Tonie is by far the best. It stimulates the organs to perform their several functions,
natural secretions. ” ' ’ - - 8
?5 properties it will restore the general health
For any lemj|g weakness Clements’ Tonic is invaluable, as by its stimulating and
V
r 'ce, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. at all Chemists,
N** NTS ’ TONIC has a specific curative action in NEURALGIA, NERVOUS-
tSs » WEAKNESS, LASSITUDE, LOSS of ENERGY, LOSS of VIGOR, &c.
•b
ni y and ask f ° r
US ’ Sllli l j] y because they bear the name ot and are prepared by a local confrere consequently they lose the trade which
CLEMENTS’, and take no other. Some chemists are so blind to their own interests that they will not
*4
la^ n *** wider views and who are free from such petty feeling Remember that if you cannot obtain Clements goods from
_ er nist you can always get the genuine article from
fHINGTON H. SOUL & Co., 158 Pitt Street,
134 William St.; A. W. Avery, Bourke St., Surry Hills; P. Macffarlane, Oxford St.;
hv. F. G. Wood, Leichhardt; Jenkin, Summerhill; &c., &c.
‘WARE of worthless substitutes
Ha-re CLBMmnS' CO3J.3T!
Sent Secuiely Packed, on Receipt of Cash, by
M. CLEMENTS,
141 King-street, Newtown, N.S.W.
ONE BOTTLE and your future patronage and recwi<uiendattion is a^&urtd.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
TOBACCO
DIXSON & SONS
TOBACCO WORKS,
SYDNEY.
DIXSON & SONS' CONQUEROR FACTORY
not only manufactures MORE TOBACCO
THAN ANY OTHER, but CONSUMES THE
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF, imported
into New South Wales, and hence the great sale
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any tobacco in
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, CHAMPION
gold leaf.
DIXSON’S CUT RUBY. ORIENTAL MIXTURE.
CIGARETTES* DIXSON’S No. I machine made,
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virginian leaf
and Paris rice tissue. Full size, sold by all
retailers at 3d. per packet of 10 cigarettes.
[ard man Bros
iStniLUUUHk
ANUFACTURERS
esro
■»W>'W
res#
mm
MiTiRWCJiOjRS
£
Quof*Srfit/p/
AHO
Trcacie
Rff/HfPS
h€A9 OFHC€ A FACTORY. NEWTOWN
Branch. Ceorce S r Sydney
■Waverley Hotel,
COLLIN S-PLACE, COLLINS-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
firm if oi 1 to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Betters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COL»EB, Proprietress
Business Announcements
ca'O'HEisrsiL.A.iiTaD-
Millak, carter AND CO.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phcemx
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
w
E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUGENE’S
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P. 0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FOR W4RI) I N G AGE NT S.
Head Office :
TOWNSVILLE,NORTH QUEENSLAND.
OSEEM3" EMPLOYMENT AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE.
Missing Friends searched for.
Solicitors and others supplied with reliable
information.
79 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-M aTEI; BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny's Baths, St. Edlda, cure Sciatica,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
pression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
simply marvellous. Fitted with garble Baths.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured,
not merely retievedj and we can prove what we say;
There are no failures and no disappointments.
MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cures, all
BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
and U VS l ’ EPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve
distre-HH from too hearty eating*, correct DIS-
ORDERS of the STOMACH, stimulate the
LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family
Medicine known, purely Vegetable (made of the
Extract of Fruit). They are as nearly perfect as
it is possible for a Bill to be.
bold Everywhere. Price, Is. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
Business A nnoun cements.
The remington btype-writer.
ncrs*
If Saves labour, stationery, and time,' writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the Bole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Kent-street,
R
M, R I L E 1
(late of the'Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absconders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds of
confidential inquiries.; instituted. Evidence obtained in
divorce, libel, fraud, and incendiary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world,
Rents and debts collected. Prom R. M. K.’g long experience
In the Detective Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in apoaition to conduct oil inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
EBCC PRESCRIPTIONS are be
■ llfcb be found In Che “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De
bility and Kindred Diseases, See, A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &c.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
A SOTE&SiaS SSIIEDT
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Dolorkux, Achino Pains in the Limbs;
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days ?
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
35 iROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION. ”
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A. ME, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
531 George-street, only.
Hotels.
Belle Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Opposite Parliament Houses, Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NINETY.
*A Waiter meets every Steamer.
Letters and Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
Mining exchange hotel,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The Central Hotel. Private Sitting Room.
Rendezvous for all parties engaged in mining
business.
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
Commercial hotel,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
First-class Accommodation for Commercial Gentle-
men and Families. Private Sitting-room without
extra charge. Plunge and Shower Bath. Billiards
(Alcock’s). First-class Chef. Charges strictly
moderate. Wines and Spirits of the best brands.
Man meets every steamer.
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor.
JMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mr. BOLTON (of the firm of Lowry & Bolton)
wishes to inform the numerous friends of the Firm
and the travelling public that he has gone to
Mount Morgan to take charge of the SUNBURST
HOTEL, which will henceforth be carried on under
his personal supervision. Sunburst Hotel, Mount
Morgan, centrally situated, and facing the cele-
brated mountain. Persons visiting the celebrated
Mountain will find every comfort and convenience
to greet them on their arrival. BILLIARD TABLE
and PIANO on the PREMISES, also STABLING
for the accommodation of THIRTY' HORSES, and
a good PADDOCK within five minutes’ w r alk of
the Hotel. Coaches Daily from and to Rock-
hampton. Note the address —
MICHAEL BOLTON
(of the Firm of Lowry & Bolton),
SUNBURST HOTEL,
Mount Morgan.
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra charge.
Good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
11 irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS ... ... Proprietor.
JAY'S PRINCE OF WALES' HOTEL,
ST. HILDA.
THIS first-class Hotel offers superior accommo-
dation to visitors and residents, being in a
healthy,and central position, fronting the .Bay,
near Esplanadaand Baths, and witiiin five minutes’
walk of the-St. Kilda Railway Station. Private
suites of apartments, ladies’ drawing-room, gentle-
men’s smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra charge.
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
MAC KAY.
UNSURPASSED Accommodation for Com-
mercial Travellers and Families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
BtTGGY Meets Every Steamer.
I make comfort of Travellers a Special Study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
N.S.W. First-class Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and shower bath. ’Bus meets
every train. J. E. PATTERSON, Proprietor.
Good Sample Rooms.
PALACE
TOWNSVILLE,
HOTEL,
QUEENSLAND. -
J. CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows:—6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6d.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
E
XCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Ho f el Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress.
Hotels.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, 80ULBURN. M.B.W.
FIRST-CLASS accommodation for c°n»» e 2;
gentlemen and others. Privatefflttingroo
sample rooms. JAMES SIMONS, Propriety
Masonic hotel, east-street, bo
HAMPTON.-T. MURPHY, MopneW*
Wayside Gleanings:—The ‘‘Western
pion says : “ I can recommend the Rockh .
Masonic to my western friends.” •* 1 ""
M
OUNT MORGAN HOTEL, QUEENSLAND
> WI V trig Jv
*1 Under the distinguished patronage 0 ]nn) o-
cellency Sir A. Musgrave. K.C.M.G. A
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey buibrined of
the balconies a splendid view ean be od
the celebrated mountain of gold, and wi seD ger
minutes’ walk of the company’s works. a „d
and mail coaches daily from
Kibra railway-stations. W. MONCK-i '
prietor, of the firm of Monckton and C°-
Business Announcements
T. TJ MlLg*
MINING AND COMMISSION -
? Mining Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWFRS. QUFE>
LAND
tfANUMfTumR}
i* m»OIITER4 9F
hatsTapsj.
< *jac£oi»c£tr
SYDNEY %
4
$
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE RE 0.
v irCO^ o ''
S TUD
g** 1
Parasol* re-Un«i w
J. SULLIJ
541 Geof/^/
Brickfield Hdjj^V
Liverpool and
Parasols made n „ a tly eJ
turned. Repairs
THE ORIGINAL
' BAKfNc^%
OBTAIN CO A
FIRST CLASS
AW™
O R
HIGHEST OECREE OF
ISTHEBESTINTHfcVZ
&
NONE OTHER
6 at
WAUCHS ,
RECt IVt;) TriE INTCRNAt ,0! ’
PR II E MtD/'Jj
MtyAD Cicctr *wt
MARSHAL)'
rONIC NERVjii
Trade Mark —TONIC NEB
ARS HALL’S TONIC NERVIN®
Promo^ 3 .
Improves Digestion.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeeper' 3 '
Prepared only by yity
MARSHALL 1
Sydney, N.S.W. ; London
,


The Bulletin
Vo\ 9-NTo. 429.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 1888.
Pi ice, 0d
TOM GARRETT (sol.): “WHAT A TIME I’M GOING TO HAVE!”


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclxod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submit ted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those deeding with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
» The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. ivhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
<f such MSS.
NOTICE.
tty sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Ordci, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted .regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ive do not ivish
to interfere.
ihsJ£aUetCa>
SATURDAY, APRIL 21.
“The Bulletin" votes tor M'[?].
The natal clay of a new nation is dawning in
Australia, and except for an occasional ob-
scure paragraph in the Press, three-fourths
of this Continent pays not the slightest heed
to the event. The approaching Queensland
election has resolved itself into a question of
Australian Nationalism v. Imperialism, and
the victory of the MTl wraith party will be
virtually a demand for independence in the
near future—the united protest of a great
colony against Imperial servitude. And at
present the signs are that the national party
will win. There is practically no fiscal issue
before the country, for both the political
leaders have gone for Protection, and the
Freetrade faith;—the great prop of Im-
perialism — is not only dead, but buried and
forgotten. The infamous Naval Defence
Bill marks the line of demarcation between
the parties in the contest, and the
< £ loyalists 1 * of Queensland have staked then
political existence on the resurrection of that
measure from the dishonoured- grave to
which an angry Parliament so recently con-
signed it. On both sides the cry .is raised,
“'Australia for the Australians !” but G rif-
kith’s insolent assumption of his opponent’s
battle-cry deceives no one. He and his
party are pledged to make Australia a tribu-
tary of England, to postpone, if possible for
ever, the birth of Australian independence,
to prop up the old regime by which this
great Continent is ruled by a set of sleepy
and ignorant clerks at the Colonial Office,
and by which the cast-off dudes and club-
loungers of London are sent out to«serve as
the heads of the Australian States ; and un-
less every act of his administration is a living
lie he can no more lead an Australian
National party than An Chew can head an
anti-Chinese crusade.
. - *
The creed of such politicians as Parkes
and Gillies and Griffith is that every man
has his price, but it was only when the Im-
perial authorities undertook the purchase of
Griffith that the overwhelming weakness
of his character 'was revealed. The Welsh
Samuel was for political sale too cheap* In a
shadowy, uncertain way he once figured as
the Tribune of the People ; like D alley and
many another bogus Australian, he vapours
even now at patriotic celebrations about the
glory of Washington and his compatriots ;
yet the Naval Defence Bill on which he
staked his political existence in return for
the meanest and cheapest pewter degrada-
tion which the Queen can confer —the de-
gradation which he shares with successful
British grocers and cheesemongers and with
apoplectic mayors without sense or gram-
mar —is a distinct attempt to perpetuate in
Australia the system of taxation without re-
presentation which awoke the less sen ile
Americans to fierce revolt. All through his
career Griffith has led the party which
xolds that Australia was created for the
Englishman, and that the “ blasted colonial ”
was made that the Englishman might rule
over him, and even when he attaches the
Republican motto to his Imperial ban-
ner he commits himself to no single
act 'that bears any trace of Republi-
can sentiment. He hints, it is true, at
shadowy socialistic reforms- if England does
not object ; he suggests that the Chinese
influx, which owes its strength entirely to
his eloquent and impassioned defence of the
Mongolian “brother” some 12 years ago,
should have something done to it ; and he
thinks that Australia should be preserved for
the Australians, and that as a means to such
preservation it should be dominated by a
foreign fleet, and bossed by foreign military
officers, and should pay tribute to a foreign
government. No sadder, weaker, sham-
democratic programme was ever published
to a disgusted world. ,
t * *
The National party in Queensland has
rallied unanimously round M‘l i. wraith s stan-
dard, and already the “square” man of genius
overshadows the insincere man of tawdry pre-
tence and bogus patriotism. The central point
of MTi, wraith’s creed is that Australia was
meant not only to be peopled but ruled by
Australians, and in his eyes the Naval De-
fence conspiracy is merely a scheme by which
this country is to pay for foreign ships and
foreign guns to suppress its aspirations for
independence. His programme of internal
reforms is almost identical with that of
(i i:riim'ii a circumstance which is readily
explained by the fact that the versatile
Samuel of Wales has borrowed his policy in
almost every detail—but while he commits
himself boldly on'every point of the National
programme, his rival merely hints and shuffles
and spreads himself over whole columns
of literary and political garbage without
uttering one word which implies an absolute
promise of any kind. Moreover MTlwratth
stands conspicuously before Australia as the
one politician of this continent whose word
has always been held sacred, while Griffith
holds the proud position of premier shuffler
in a land where statesmanship is synonymous
with mendacity and deception. Yet (1 riffith,
like Washington, might claim to have never
told a lie ; in fact, he never required to tell
one. Almost everything he ever promised
to do has been left undone, and almost
everything he promised not to do he has
done over and over again, but lie possesses a
potent gift of explanation by means of which
lie always shows that nothing he ever said
meant what it appeared to mean, and that
nothing he ever did was what it seemed to
be. His talent has been carefully cultivated
until he ranks as the leading optical illusion
of the Southern Hemisphere, and the head
apologiser and expounder of the age ; he is
a creation by himself and has nothing in
common with the elephantine ignorance of a
Parkes, or the coarse stupidity of an Abi-
gail, and he is so far above either that he
could borrow money from the latter without
interest, and could make the former pay
a bill at the first time of asking. In
politics Griffith is the living embodiment
of the poet’s idei that tilings are not what
they seem, and in this lies the secret of his
approaching downfall. For live years he
has abjectly grovelled to England from
motives of pure Australian patriotism ; for
12 years he lias been the prop and stay of
the Chinese becausejie wanted to keep Aus-
tralia for the Australians ; and now the
country has grown tired of this anomalous
ruler, and wants to be governed by some one
who moves in a less mysterious way his
wonders to perform,
. * *
The establishment Of an Australian Re-
public is the ultimate goal towards which
MTlwraith’s policy is directed, and his
name will be handed down in undying glory
to future generations as that of the first
Australian Premier who dared to pledge
himself openly to the National cause.
While Griffith and other politicians of
similar calibre are engaged in drafting-
abject petitions to the British Sovereign that
the latter as our suzerain should be pleased
—if it suits her —to beseech the Chinese
Emperor to restrain his subjects from eating
up the white man’s heritage in the Pacific,
he proposes to boldly assert our right as a
nation to preserve ourselves from ruin and
contamination —to close the ports of Queens-
land against the leprous host who come as
British subjects under the protection of
British treaties, and to defy the mercenary
British nation to champion—if she dare —
the cause of the unclean myriads to whom
she’seifs the rights of citizenship at so much
a head. He has recognised the fact that
the southern Commonwealth will only be
established when Australia learns to act as
becomes a free nation, and Australia will,
for the first time, claim her right to be a
nation when she drives the Mongolian from
her shores, and refuses to regard him as a
white man by virtue of a British Act of
Parliament. The expulsion of the Chinese
is an essential part of the great Republican
movement—the movement which now dwarfs
all other questions in Australian politics. So
long as this continent is dependent on the
British Empire internal reforms only tend to
enrich and improve a land which is not our
own. —to strengthen a people who are for-
bidden to become a nation and whose
energies—if Griffith and Halley are to be
believed—are to be for ever employed in
propping up a rotting monarchy on the other
side of the globe. Australia as the
hanger-on of a foreign Power has no
national ideal to realise, and M‘ll wraith
is one of the very few Australian statesmen
wlio comprehend that this servitude cannot
he maintained that a new race must belong
to itself if it is ever to achieve greatness.
His annexation of New Guinea though Thf,
Bulletin did not and does not now recog-
nise the necessity of the act—was a bold
attempt to make that island a part of Aus-
tralia in the present and of the Australian
Republic in the future, and had his op-
ponents chosen for once to sink politi-
cal differences and give him their
support on patriotic grounds, lie would
probably have succeeded in his endea-
vour. As it is, Griffith's after-representa-
tions have merely resulted in New Guinea—
or a fragment of it becoming an outlying
bit of England instead of an integral portion
of Australia, and this distinction is typical
of Griffith himself. Griffith is an out-
lying section of England ; in his eyes the
Australian must ever be an Englishman, and
he adopts the watchword of ‘' Australia
for the Australians” because to him it is
the same as Australia for the English-
men,” and it promises to do better service at
a political crisis. To this shuffler from
Wales, patriotism -apart from Imperial
patriotism is impossible and non-existent,
and even to this day he is unable to compre-
hend why the people whom he endeavoured
to sell should object to being sold. The
Bulletin opposes Griffith because he is
the enemy of Australian Nationalism, and
because his intellect is of that kind which
makes it all but impossible that he can ever
be other than he now is, It supports M'U,-
wraith because he is now almost the only
genuine statesman and patriot that this
continent possesses, because lie is the
only man in our political world who is
at once willing and able to lead the
National party and stand or fall with it,
and, above all, because his past career makes
it certain that he is beyond the reach of cor-
ruption, and that he will adhere to the last
to the cause lie has adopted. Under his in-
fluence Queensland, the youngest of the
Australian colonies, has taken the lead in
endeavouring to assert her right to be a
nation, and the old, stagnant communities of
the South are anxiously awaiting the issue.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Regina and Pritchard Morgan.
The Pali. Mall Gazette considers that the
attitude of the Salisbury Government in re the
Trafalgar-square disturbances necessitates the
General Council of the Law and Liberty League
calling a meeting in the prohibited square with-
out delay. It considers that the claim of the
Crown to regard a public place, created by public
money for public purposes, in which the public
have had uninterrupted right of user ever since it
existed, as if it were the private garden of the
Queen, is so preposterous that it needs but to be
stated to excite a roar of contemptuous indigna-
tion in any public meeting in London. “It is
possible to defend the prohibition of public meet-
ings in the Square on other grounds. It is not
possible before a popular audience to defend it on
the ground that the Queen lias a right to warn her
subjects off the Square as trespassers.” This is
the simple theory of all property in England.
Everything which is'not held in fee-simple by a
private owner is held in right of divine authority by
the Crown. The very highways and byways, the
foothpaths, the ' moors, the commons, the waste-
lands everywhere belong to the Crown. People
walk down a thoroughfare on sufferance.
The very air belongs to the Crown, unless it is
attached in the form of chattel atmosphere to pri-
vate park-lands or rented along with the moors
for grouse-shooting. Not long since a man who
had for weary years toiled and digged and specu-
lated- risked sometimes his life and sometimes
his fortune in the scientific and practical search
for gold ; a man who had dearly purchased and
rightly held all his knowledge regarding the ex-
ploitation of the rocks for their treasure, went to
England. He he}d locked in his brain the multi-
farious experiences of a lifetime of toil on
Australian goldfields. His trained and practised
eve recognised a formation of an auriferous char-
acter in Wale.-. He had found gold ! But this
practical knowledge, without which the discovery
would have been impossible, is not recognised in
cockle-grown, barnacle-covered England. Great
Britain is not a goldfield, and a recent cable
informs us that the Crown has claimed the gold
found in North Wales, and demands also an
account of the quartz crushed. That gold is the
property of the Crown just in the same manner
that every thing else is, including Trafalgar-square,
which is' not owned by a private person. The
gold had lain hidden from the lustful eyes of
men for ages. The old Cymri mayhap had
crossed and recrossed the spot; the legions of
Rome may have camped upon it; the naked war-
riors of Strathclyde may have trodden its surface
under foot, and Saxons, Danes, and Normans,
fierce Gascons and facile Angevins, may have
passed it by in their forays on the Marches ; Red
and White Rose may here have struggled for
supremacy, and stained the little rill which
trickles down the rocks hard by with red blood
and* white corpses—shed and withered petals ;
Puritan, Cavalier, Roundhead, follower of Mon-
mouth or of Orange, Hanoverian or partisan of
the Pretender ; all have missed the discovery of
what all were eagerly looking for, and at the end
of a bead-roll of centuries an Australian, with an
eye for “the lay” of .4 geological formation,
changes his experience into gold, The English
Crown is so grateful that it _ has claimed the
“finds.” It further “demands an account of
the quartz crushed !
4.
Ciarrett’s istli Clause,
A determined stand has been justifiably taken by
the New South Wales Assembly against the pas-
sing into law of the 18th clauses of Garrett’s
Amending Land Bill. Any country which .would
stand supinely by and allow any Minister to arro-
gate to himself the Czarish powers in settling the
assessment of run-rentals, now claimed by Mr.
Garrett— a man found guilty of flagrant corsup-
tion by a parliamentary commission, and whose
expulsion from the House was prevented by only
the narrowest of narrow majorities -any country
which would stand supinely by,-we say, and allow
such usurpation of autocratic omnipotence, is not
the country which could be relied on to grapple
with the Chinese trouble. .Should the New South
Wales Government even permit its Minister of
Lands to gratify his lust of power to the extent
proposed, it would miserably and effectually
stultify itself in regard to other measures it talks
vaguely of presently introducing. Tt is proposed,
for instance, to remove the departments of Public
Works and .Railways from the active- control of
Parliament, and from the personal administration
of tiie Minister of a party, and to place these de-
partments under the management of a com-
mission which shall act independently both
of Parliament and party. And this is to
be done, mark well, in the interests of purity
of administration as it is more than a matter
of grave suspicion that the present system
of ministerial control and parliamentary patronage
is open to charges of the grossest corruption and
departmental manipulation. Why then should so
far superior a matter as the administration of the
Public Lands department—unquestionably the
most seriously important to the country of all
departments—-continue, while these great changes
are being effected in other directions of minor
consideration, to be autocratically dealt with by a
Minister who would lie practically irresponsible ?
When it is considered, the almost illimitable
power for pecuniary peculation surrendered to
one of whom the most that can be said—be he
who he may —is that he is but mortal, the possi-
bilities for gigantic fraud are simply appalling.
Not that we claim that Mr. Garrett desires to
hold this power to use it to his own monetary
advantage —far from it. But compute the enor-
mous facilities that would be placed at his disposal
and take into consideration the advantages to be
reaped, not alone by the Minister for Lands
at the time being, whoever he might be, but
also by the squatters who would think it
worth their while to try and bribe a high official
to fix rentals on his exclusive ipse clixit for their
peculiar benefit! If a sinless angel from the
mythic realms of innocence and purity could be
obtained to fill the onerous and responsible posi
tion of Minister for Lands, even then should we
hesitate to place in his immaculate and spotless
hands such unbounded and despotic power. But
in the present case we have not to deal with an
angel of light ! We must not forget that it is Mr.
Garrett who claims this autocratic authority
—a man denounced by his present political chief
with a stinging indictment in which his (Mr. Gar-
rett’s) retention in the House of Representatives
was' described as a “red-hot, burning brand of
shame ” stamped on the forehead of this fair land;
and his possession of a seat was characterised as a
disgrace and a menace to the purity of public life
in N. S. Wales. This stigma has never been
retracted, has never been apologised for. Mr
Garrett, however, now sits in that House to
which his presence was denounced erstwhile as a
disgrace; he holds office in the Ministry of his
accuser: he draws a salary beneath the sanctified
tegis of his pitiless and brutal foe; he wits cheek by
jowl with another bitter defender of public
morality who found him guilty, and who, too, has
neither effaced his judgment nor apologised to the
judge. The outraged House by a special vote has
refused to expunge the scathing words from the
records of its proceedings, and Mr. Garrett is
under the permanent cloud of disgrace which must
ever hover over the head of one whose own
colleagues have publicly testified to their disbelief
in his political honesty. And they have never
taken back their charge, or palliated it by a single
word of remorse or sentiment. This power now
claimed by Mr. Garrett would be a terrific
weapon to place in the hands of a man as pure as
Aristides ; under the circumstances to pass into law
the 18th clause of the Land Bill now before the
House would be an act of legislative suicide and
national disgrace.
I ieeliade England,
The following wholesale indictment of the pre-
sent Governmental policy of Great Britain must
be particularly interesting to the Foreign-trade
journals of Sydney. The Weekly Bulletin
(a paper the editor whereof tells us that it was so
named as a compliment to the success of the
Sydney Bulletin) thus sums up the present con
dition of Freetrade England
“ Our lane) is fast going out of cultivation, and the
beggars in our big' cities are increasing by thousands.
Our workhouses (town ones—the country ones have
mostly sent their tenants to headquarter) are so full that
extra" accommodation is everywhere a necessity. Our
agriculture has practically ceased or is ceasing, although
our importations of cattle, of meat, of flour, or of grain ar e
yearly increasing. We import egg-s by the hundreds of mil-
lions," and English cheese and English butter are becoming
so rare that specimens will soon be on exhibit in the dif-
ferent museums. We import our furniture and our beer,
our metals and our wood ; even our garden produce and
qur apples or fruit—tinned mostly, at that. We buy pre,
served fruits, whilst we allow our plums and strawberries
to wither away upon the trees or plants. Several lines of
steamers now "run regularly from the ports of Japan a"d
China, laden with wares of every description made
by the inhabitants of those countries. We am
nually buy from them hundreds of thousands of
pounds’ worth of lacquered goods, of carpets,
rugs, tea-services, trays, or slippers, ornamental
crockery, curtains, wicker-work, screens, embroidery, &c.
We have in London many shops which sell scarcely anything
else but these things. Our own trades are fast leas ing us.
Our artizans prefer America, Germany, or France, where
they can put the profits they make into their own pockets
instead of being mulcted for a Government whose short-
comings they are daily learning to loathe. We use foreign
watches, foreign tools, and foreign machinery. Only a
day or two ago we saw carts painted the ‘ Belgian Coal
Company'’ in the streets of London !”
♦
Why Oiifferiu Resigned.
Dufeerin's resignation of the Indian Governor,
ship is assigned, in the daily press, to the depre
ciation of silver and the consequent reduction of
his salary from £20,000 to £12,500. This is non
sense. Dufferin knew the exact amount of his
salary before he took the post, but he did not
know —or at any rate did not realise the pitiless
bondage of the Indians and the appalling ruin
which the British high-toned Civil service and
army officials are working on the wretched people.
He held office about as long as Ripon, and re-
signed for the same cause. Ripon in his Ilbert
Bill attempted to give the Indians this petty
modicum of Home Rule-that such as were
qualified by wealth and special study to pass into
the Civil service might do so and hold the office
of magistrate. Russia has granted thrice as much
to every eastern nation she has conquered. Alik-
haxoff, the conqueror of Bokhara, was once simple
Ali Khan, Armenians have risen to the highest
posts, not excluding the Chancellorship of the
Empire. RIPON resigned because he found the
British gentlemen of the two services were in open
rebellion agains,t him to a man, the merchants
with them. Once the Indian ci* I®B 1 ® 8 were full of
native artisans. Now every industry is
crushed out of existence by the cow of Freetrade,
cheap Brummagem import “imitations ” which
have enriched the holy English l monopolist manu-
facturers, like John Bright d Joseph Cham-
berlain, and their Calico-Jp ,n y agents. The
army and the Civil service' l rely act as their
“ police.” Dufferin had ‘ , thlß »'i Ireland,
and he had seen the c-onv- e P Protectionist


Canada, and he couldn’t stand it. And this is
the sort of thing Dalley and the Imperial Federa-
tionists want in Australia.
4 .
Freetrade in Print.
Says Salmon’s Printing Trades Circular (Lon-
don), dated January, 1888 :
“ We have just had brought under our notice a case of
extreme cutting’ in litho. work. A firm asked for tenders
for 250,000 oval labels for beer-bottles. They were to be
ih two colours, stamped, packed, and delivered. An
Englishman offered to take the order at Is. per 1000. He
was told that he was preposterously high—the firm has
before only paid 8&d. per 1000 to a German house, and
now that has been" beaten by another German, who has
agreed to deliver the labels at 6Jd. per 1000. The neces-
saries of life ought to be cheap in Germany.”
Freetrade means free competition. Free inter-
national competition among master-printers
means free competition among journeymen
printers. And that ultimately means the desper-
ately necessitous working printer biting his
brother's larynx out in the struggle for the mere
right to live. The fight is hard enough, heaven
knows, between master and man and between
workman and workman when they all live in one
land and under as equal conditions as are
conceivable in the present state of society
but when it comes to the German fighting the
Englishman at every point on the Englishman’s
own ground, while poor John Bull has his hands
tied and is shut out of the German market, it
is efisy to see how the contest must end. It is
lbl»si?hemy to argue against the sacred doctrine of
JFyeetrade— “Christ himself”—a writer was
allowed to say in a letter published with sweet
approval the other day by one of the Sydney
dailies, “ was a Freetrader, and would have
looked with loathing on the iniquitous doctrines
of Protection.” That being so we had better re-
gard the question as settled, and say no more
about it, as it is ungentlemanly to argue against
a man’s religious belief. Let us, therefore, bow
our heads in silence to the Chinaman, who might
just as well, so far as we are concerned, com-
pete with us by shipping his slave-wage
goods to this country as by working in our
midst. The only possible difference in any case
can be this: that the Chinaman who comes
to Australia and works, gets a portion of
the results of his own labour after he has finished
his term of slavery with his yellow boss, while if
he works in China for a boss who ships goods to
Australia the boss gets all the money and John
only a drink of water and two penn’orth of rice a
week. “ The employer naturally feels that so
long as he is plentifully supplied with immigrant
labour—or its results in the shape of cheap im-
ported goods —there is no reason why he shouldn't
be deaf to the demands of the British workman. ”
An English paper applies this to the German in-
vasion of Great Britain. Australia can apply it
to the Chinese invasion of its own territory.
Jordan, the Queensland Minister for Lands,
makes a few observations :
“ Recurring to the subject of wheat-growing, he said it
cost Queensland something like £500,000 a year in hard
cash for flour. This was sent out of the country to buy
bread, and another £500,000 for other farm produce Any
Government which did not determine to put a stop to
such a state of things as speedily as possible would not
be worthy of the confidence of the electors. The £500,000
gent away for flour and grain meant about 2,000,000
bushels of wheat. Twenty bushels to the acre would give
100,000 acres in cultivation. With that additional mimbei
of acres under wheat, we should want about 400,000 acres
in fanning occupation. That divided into eighty-acre
farms would mean 5000 farmers, and calculating their
families at five each would mean 25,000 more people
settled on the land. As every soul paid £3 per head in
Custom duties, the revenue would he increased by £75,000
per year from Customs alone, and that was nothing in
comparison to the value of the labour which would arise
from not sending this half-million away for flour.”
It is just possible, of course, that Pulsuoiui, of
the New South Wales Freetrade League, can ex-
plain this away; we merely bring it under his
sleepless eye for consideration. As likely as not
he will be able to show how, with £1,000,000 a
year going out for farm-produce, and 5000 farmers
loafing round Brisbane with nothing to do, and
10,000 men bunting rabbits on 40,000 acres of
bush, and the extra £75,000 a year not coming in
by way of customs duties, the country is really
better off than it would be otherwise, and, per-
haps, even more so than could be expected, and
that the only real danger is that people may get
Sunstroke while running to put their cash in the
bank. We simply invite his attention to J ordan’s
figures and ask him to construct a diagram brist-
ling with X and Z and let us see how the thing is
done. We are thirsting after knowledge and
hungering for facts about the political economy of
having nothing to do, and if PuLSFORD can’t
supply them who in all creation can ?
IN the New South Wales Assembly last week
Treasurer Burns made a hideous effort to explain
away the half-million deficit in the accounts for
the first quarter of 1888, and having deliberately
knocked off £BOO,OOO from for the
three months he produced a paper surplus of
£300,000. From this his admirers gathered that
there will probably be £1,200,000 to the good at
the close of the year, and there is much jubilation
in the Foreign Trade camp. The £BOO,OOO in
question was struck off on general principles, the
reason assigned being that “it was not properly
chargeable to the past quarter.” Unfortunately,
however, the one bald fact remains that the money
has been spent. Part of it was “ properly charge-
able ” to last year’s account, but as it was not paid
last year it becomes necessary to provide for it
this year, or for the colony to go insolvent. Part
of it was also chargeable to the ensuing
quarter, but as the ensuing quarter will
probably be swamped with items which should
have been debited to the quarter just closed, and
with other items held over from 1887, there is
very small comfort to be derived from Mr. Burns’
assurances under this head. For many years past
there has been an average sum of £250,000 per
quarter to be paid on account of liabilities incurred
in preceding years, and when the national Micaw-
BER airily brushes aside more than one-third of
the quarter’s expenditure on the ground that it
should not properly be charged to that particular
Eeriod, the question naturally arises—what does
e propose to charge it to ? If part of it belonged
to 1837, why did he not pay it in 1887, instead
of holding it over in the endeavour to
produce a sham surplus, and what guarantee has
the nation that he is not holding over a similar
balance to be paid in 1888? Mr. Burns’ alleged
surplus of £300,000 cannot stand against the one
irrefutable fact that New South Wales has paid
away in three months half-a-million more than
she has received. Why she did it is a matter of
small account. The world is full of astute people
who are prepared to argue with a corpse and
prove to it by figures that it is not dead, but
somehow the proof is of very little practical ac-
count. The corpse goes on being dead just the
Society
846. Macquarie-street North, Sydney, April 18, 1888.
. My Dear Moorabixda, — In the first place let me tell you
that that very handsome, not to say voluptuous-lookin
hospital-nurse, whose massive charms have made her the
envy of the women and the idol of more men than one
could count on all one’s fingers and toes, is at last going
be married. And to whom do you think ? To one of
Australia’s richest squatters, a venerable bachelor whose
cheque for £lOO,OOO would be honoured by any bank.
Notwithstanding the swain’s age she must be accounted a
lucky woman, for, my dear, I take it that she might just
as well nurse one man as a dozen.
And while I am on the subject of nursing’, you will be
delighted to hear that that most charming of all talkers,
Mr. Dailey, whose little fish-dinners—how people do love
his divine cook’s oyst'er-pat&s ! —are the greatest of Aus-
tralian culinary triumphs, is again well enough to write
letters —and physic-puffs ! He attributes the • vast im-
provement in his health to the persistent use, of a certain
well-advertised “safe” patent medicine. The story goes
that the doctors had given his case up .as hopeless, and
that their patient, on being told of this, seemed to be
rapidly sinking ; whereupon a lady of much resource whc
is attached to Mr. Dailey’s household bounced - the
medicos out of the establishment and prescribed on her
own account for the invalid, bottle after bottle of the
remedy in question. The patent-medicine people are, of
course, jubilant, andare, naturally enough, making the very
best use of the circumstance, but the doctors, when spoken
to about the matter, merely shrug their shoulders and re-
mark that anybody who can thus be cured must be as
much a victim of hypochondria as of anything else. For
myself, my dear, I believe these things are all matters of
bright smiles and careful nursing, and that at least as
much depends upon who pours out a sick man’s medicine
as upon what the medicine-bottle contains.
The other day I read a funny little item written by a
lady to a Sydney paper“ Emperor Fritz’s principal
nurse is an Irish ‘sister.’ The Empress rarely leaves the
room.” I am much afraid that my sister of the quill must
herself be an Irish lady.
1 wonder what fresh atrocity the more foolish of the
members .of our sex will next commit in the matter of
dress ! As you know, it is now the fashion to wear in the
street loose-fitting jackets, cl la Garibaldi, with a skirt of
different colour. Of all the frights I have ever seen the
greatest was a very well-known girl, who last week “ did
the-Block” in a loose-fitting white jacket with puffed
sleeves and a tight black skirt. Her figure, not to use too
cruel a word, is at the best of times very attenuated
looking, so just imagine the effect she managed to pro
duce by thus making the upper part of her body seem
very very fat and the lower part even thinner and more
pipey and more kangaroo-like than ever ! lam far from
disliking costumes of this sort when they are worn by
people who can carry them off, though 1 must really con-
fess that the effect produced by the sharp contrast be-
tween a dark skirt and a light jacket, or vice versa, was at
first rather startling. It looked as if the girl who had
assumed it had forgotten to fully dress herself before
leaving her room. lam sure this was the general mascu-
line verdict, for at the gate of a house in Woollahra, the
other evening, one girl so attired said to another that
“she thought it was time to go to bed.” “Yes,” said
wicked little boy, who had seemingly never before seer,
such a dress, “but you’d better wait till you get home,
lady. Don’t take off any more of yer clothes here,
please.”
You asked me the other day who Lord and Lady—l
think I had better say Lo.rd and Lady De Brown-Browne,
now on a visit to Australia, are. Well, lam now told on
very good authority that her ladyship was, only a year or
two age, a dark-eyed, graceful sylph known to the
mashers as Miss 0 , and that, at various times, she
dispensed fiery and other liquids at an Adelaide hotel and
at the Bijou Theatre and other places in Melbourne. My
informant, who is a man, says he is not sufficiently ac
quainted with the peerage to tell me anything about her
lord, but he adds that if he is half as good in his way as
he is in hers, he must be a cut above ordinary sprigs of
nobility. How barmaids do fascinate men ! I suppose it
is because wine and woman when allied are irresistible.
Hebe is certainly the Mte noir of us women—all the more
so because we rarely have a chance of gratifying our
curiosity by watching her at work. The unknown Is
always very terrible.
I was glancing over one of the morning papers when
my eye lighted on a long letter on the subject of flowers.
It was a gushing epistle, and in the last paragraph the
author expressed a desire to foster “ a love for these pretty
and sweet and dear gifts of the Creator.” Then I said to
myself that the writer was a woman—none but a woman,
as a rule, can pile up these nicey-nicey little adjectives—
and I added mentally that this woman was a duck. I
confess it was a shock when I ascertained that a clergy-
man had done it. I don’t know this particular one,
but I ventured to draw a mental picture of him right off,
and if he isn’t a roley-poley little shepherd I am further
astray than I ever was before.
Barbarism isn’t yet quite extinct. I was passing the
door of a Sydney jeweller’s shop the other evening when
I was attracted by a faint scream from a lady inside, and,
looking in, I saw a patient sitting in a chair in full view
of everybody who went by. She was getting her ears
pierced. The jeweller had a firm hold of one of her
organs of hearing—it made quite a good handful, by the
way—and was driving a needle through it, while she shed
tears, and held herself down in a chair, and devoutly
wished that it was all over. She was young—say about
20—and tolerably good-looking, and she was accompanied
by an elderly relative with six grey curls, who tittered
over the proceedings, while a little crowd outside guf-
fawed. The victim didn’t wait to have her nose bored,
though she might as well have done so while the job was
in progress. 1 would —just to show the crowd outside
that I didn’t care—well, a bit.
The very latest invention of fashion for the benefit
of womankind is a handkerchief with a little buttonhole
in the centre, through which a powder-puff is attached.
No more dropping this so necessary contrivance of com-
fort and beautification ; no further necessity for searching
pockets and reticules, no anxious waiting for opportune
moments. It will always be ready—a trusty friend, in-
deed. And what a lot of grateful patrons the contrivance
will have in Collins-street !
You have, perhaps, not heard of the very latest slips of
our own Mrs. Malaprop. She says she likes old china,
and that she gets her taste for it from her poor
father, who simply doted on iniquities. And in recom-
mending- the attention of a friend of hers to a particular
dish at table, a little while ago, Mrs. M. said, “ You really
must try it. I assure you it is quite rechauffe .” How-
ever, I believe these stories t.o he mere inventions, as the
poor woman surely can’t always be saying good things by
mistake.
1 hear, on excellent authority, that the aides-de-camp
to colonial governors are never happy until the “old
gentlemen ” have gone to bed. Mr. -I , who used to
be A.D.C, in New Zealand years ago, once told me that,
so far as his experience went, aides-de-camp and private
secretaries were often treated only as upper servants.
Mr - used to be private secretary, and old Sir
■ used to actually make him light his bedroom
candle when the time for.retiring had arrived.
How rude are some of the occupants of Sydney theatri-
cal boxes ! For instance, when Leonora Braham and the
two other little maids from school came tripping on the
stage, hand-in-hand, during the recent “.Mikado” run at
the S,\ dnej Royal, a dreadful person threw a superb
oouquet indiscriminately at the trio. As none of the
three little maidens possessed presumption enough to
claim it for herself it had to be gently moved behind the
scenes by gradual and delicate application of the too of
one of the male actors’ boots. But don’t you think the
time has arrived for abolishing for ever the ‘custom of
Douquet-throwing, which, as at present conducted, in 09
cases out of a hundred only serves to interrupt the per-
formance ?
A friend of mine, the other day, gave me, as her idea of
absolute happiness- to live in a good climate —to have lots
of lovely dresses -and to own a husband who wouldn’t
beat her. I really believe that this is often just about a
girl’s idea of perfect bliss. Throw in a hopelessly zealous
female ‘ friend, a pug-dog, and an introduction to a
popular actor, and many a Sydney girl will not require a
heaven. By-tlie-way, one “ popular ac(o about whom
Iha\e heard hundreds of girls rave, is a married man,
with a daughter quite- five-and-twenty. However, his
daughter isn’t here, and he shaves his face clean. So long-
as a man displays plenty of “cheek ” it doesn’t seem
much to concern women whether he is young or not.
Somebody once said that nothing was ever lost by
politeness. 1 red, who, as you happen to know is most
polite, tells me that during the last three months he has
gi\ en his seat in the tram-car to a dozen or more women
and girls—pretty girls, ugly girls, shop girls, ballet girls,
tobacco-factory girls, young- women, washerwomen, old
women, women wearing golden hair and diamond lockets,
and our sex in general. They were all grateful to him’
one poor old soul gave him a sour apple ; several held his
umbrella and bag while be stood ; and yet another told
him what to take to get rid of influenza.
A well-known Sydney lady, an mute, by the Omm for
Italy, writes me a marvellous letter from Adelaide, in
which she dwells chiefly upon the subject of - her appetite!
She tells me that so invigorated is she by the sea air that
she is actually absorbing seven meals a day ! ! I am glad
she isn't going- to ’Frisco. After such dieting she could
never manage to get through the Golden Gate.
A very good story I heard about a youthful curate of a
certain church, who was acquainted with a young- lady
for several years, and merely greeted her as tepidly as he
did everyone else. By-and-bye an old and unknown relative
of hers died and left her mistress of a considerable fortune.
The curate then suddenly became aware that his whole
being was aflame with Love, chaste, unworldly love, for
her, and her only, and off he' started on matrimony
bent. Having .a “duck of a moustache” and long-
legs, of course be, succeeded, and she became bis affianced.
Desiring to breathe the news to his parishioners, he attended
an afternoon tea, where there was a crowded hoiisc, and,
as he was handed his Bohea, he said, oilily: “ Aw—did
you know Miss Mary is engaged?” “No,” snapped the
vieille terrible of the suburb; “ some fortune-hunter, I
suppose, after the poor girl’s money!” Such a facer
would have utterly routed anybody who was not
thoroughly Good- with a big, big G—but the pious
young saint was equal to her. “ Not ou this occa-
sion,” he said sweetly and triumphantly, “ for the flanebe
is—myself ! ” Nobody dares to question his motives now,
and the wedding preparations are rapidly going forward.
The above curate’s flock have a firm nineteenth-century
grip of the beauties of faith. They recently gave £2
for a monogram for their altar-cloth and £2 7s. 6d. for the
relief of the poor and suffering. This left the halt 7s. 6d.
ahead of the altar-cloth, and so no one can accuse them
of neglecting flesh and blood in favour of gold-thread and
plush !
The fashionable girl of this winter will find it unhealthy
to cross a paddock where a bovine specimen happens to
browse, for red—glaring, butch cr’s-shbp red—is to be “ the
go.” This is the last, worst, and most awful of all the
Jubilee inflictions, and it seems to stick closer than a
brother to us. On Saturday a Sydney fashionable came
out ih it from head to heel—her hat being fearfully and
wonderfully made of fed velvet with a huge hunch of
cock’s-red feathers at the side I She looked murderous
and martial, and, as she swished down Hunter-street,
somebody softly whistled a bar of the “Boulanger”
march. Some of the winter novelties are quite nice this
year, though. The “ Fedora ” boa, which has a little hag-
muff cunningly attached in front, is particularly fetching,
especially to those whom fur becomes.
As everybody knows, a certain up-country Croesus is
virtually separated from his wife —he residing in England,
she (just now) at one of the Points. The trouble came
about in this way. She liked the society of handsome
men. Hubby became jealous—objected—and remained
semi-volcanic until one evening, when he announced over
the dinner table (where two or three cavaliers were ab-
sorbing the attention of his better-half) that he was going
to Melbourne for a week. “Must you?” said the lady,
plaintively ; “ oh ! don’t go.” And then she made a side-
.grimace to the handsomest dude. That grimace cost her
her husband, who has never lived under the same roof
with her since.
The gaitered Primate was at home last Saturday to any
Episcopalian sheep who had decent wool and the price of
a cab about him. The afternoon being bleak, Bishops-
court (with which our spiritual leader is much dissatis-
fied) was colder than a parvenu’s nod to a former crony,
and very few notables showed up.
The Easter encampment has faded into the remote, and
we have bidden, a regretful farewell to those impromptu
little four-o’clock teas in the snowy tents of the gallant
officers. What a charming time we had! A smart ride to
the encampment—a rest in the grateful shade of canvas-
ami some of the most agreeable men in Sydney to hand
one one’s tea and to flirt with one! Some people found
those visits too agreeable perhaps. I know for a positive
fact that one family visited the encamped seven times!
But, never mind ! No officer, so far as I have heard, is
bkely to he drummed out on this occasion for introducipg
his wife somebody who wasn’t.
Vice-regal “ Sophia,” last Thursday, was a frost for
those who like to speculate on Lady Carington’s dress.
Her Ladyship was not present, and the pretty comedy
eventuated in the light of H.E.’s unaided smile. The house,
course, was a bumper, and the stage-boxes were well
patronised. The manager’s box held a party of four. A
popular Sydney citizen and his amiable wife, in rich
black lace and jet, and two visitors from Maoriland, one
of whom, in white silk and pearl and diamond ornaments
in lier blonde bail- and at her throat and arms, looked
pretty enough to eat. New Zealand women run awav
from the Sydneyites pour le regard. It's their bright
colour does it.
Some lucky people, belonging to our first families, went,
“home” from Sydney the other day. They have stayed
out here quite a longtime because ‘they didn’t think their
income sufficient to make a splash with in London, They
draw from their N.S.W. properly over £70,000 a year '
One, of the newest things in ball gowns is the poppy
( less. The whole front of the robe is covered with cm or
mous petals, several times larger than in nature, made of
the thinnest silk, and crinkled to imitate the flower.
Monotony is broken by interspersing the petals with here
and there poppy seed-balls hanging down upon long', soft
stalks.
One of the prettiest social sights of Sydney now, dear, is
the nicely barbered author of a badly-barbered plav, who
may be seen any time during exhibition hours, seated on
a violet velvet throne, his pale forefinger upon his pallid
brow, gazing mystically into farness while receiving the
adoration of beauteous women. Another pretty “social
show is that afforded by a well-known masher who plays
the part of tame (rat to an equally well-known married
“society” woman, and who sits stock still in the theatre
for three solid hours, and never once leaves off sucking
his stick allthe time.
1 wonder how Sir Henry Loch now feels about the hand-
some Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, two of whose pretty children
he once ostentatiously nursed at a public concert in Mel-
bourne ? But how soft all men are ! How soft with re-
spect to tiiis very same dashing Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, were
a well-known Macquarie-street doctor—and bachelor
0 , and bachelor D , and widower B—— ! and all
the rest of them, from old imbecile Sir Richard Buck-
worth King-, who used to sit and drivel in a corner of her
splendid London drawing-room while he was spending’ iris
thousands upon her, down to the gilded swell who, when
she was in Sydney, supplied her with horses and rolling-,
stock ! There are, in Australia, many people who knew
her in London ; for a year or two prior to her advent here
she quite haunted the agencies of the various Australian
papers, in quest of bold advertisement. She used to live
in Bryanston-street, next to Mr. Broadley, the barrister
who defended Arabi Pasha.
The harp is rapidly displacing the piano in Melbourne,
“ t,le PariB of the South,” as its inhabitants love to call it.'
“ Pianos is g-ettin’ so common, my dear.”
And now, just as I write good bye, let me tell you that
you have to congratulate Sydney on the approaching de-
parture of its chief social pestilence, the hulking* person-
age who for years has glared like a wild beast at every
pr woman whom he met in town. TTc is going to
where ire will have plenty of women to glare at. TTow
popular he will be to -be sure ! Yours affectionatelv
Sappho Smith.
(Interesting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappiio Smith, Bclletix office.
The Argus, with smug complacency, echoes
Charles Kingsley’s babble about the predestined
settlement of Australia. Thus snuffles the two-
penny organ : —“ In the wisdom of Providence
this isolated and unique continent, remote from
the centres of population and from the sounds of
their strife, with many advantages and few
drawbacks, has been reserved for the British race.
No other people has received such a gift. And
the question is, What will we do with it ? ” What
a solemn question for our consideration, dear
friends ! Providence might have given this con-
tinent to tilt* Rooshians or the Prooshians, or the
I-talians ; hut the g'ift was set apart for the
blessed British race, by the grace of Captain
Cook. _ And what did we commence to do with it,
dear friends ? We first utilised it as a “ convict-
tip,’ and then we allowed a handful of squatters
to grab the best part of Heaven’s unique blessing
for themselves. Then Providence began to get
full up of the British race, and reserved the New
Hebrides for the Prench and half of New Guinea
(a most thoughtful arrangement of Providence
that!) for the Germans.. And if we don’t keep a
smart look out Providence will transfer the whole
bag of tricks to the slant-eyed leper.
Why lias the New South Wales Attorney-
General refrained from taking proceedings for
forgery, or false pretences, or perjury, on
one side or the other, in the matter of the
case Pom baht v. Australian \ Banking Company,
Limited ? During the hearing of that case it was
deposed that some official of the politician-bossed
pawnshop in question had obtained two guineas
from the plaintiff, Pombart, by affixing to a bill
of sale a stamp (subsequently erased) purport-
ing to be that of Mr. J. M. Curtis, solicitor, of
Sydney—who then got into the box and swore
that the document had never come through his
office, that he had never been paid any money on
account of it, that he had never authorised any-
body to use a stamp on his behalf, and that he
was utterly unaware of the existence of the
stamp in question until he was subpoenaed in
connection with the case. And if the Attorney-
General so grossly neglects his duty as chief
public prosecutor as to allow a colossal scan-
dal with which the name of his colleague,
Abigail, the Minister of Mines (a director of the
“ bank ” aforesaid) is connected in a secondary
way, to remain uninvestigated, may we be per-
mitted to inquire what the Law Institute of New
South Wales mean to do in the matter ? The
affair is a very simple one, and needs treatment
with a knife.
The rabbits are not averse to. anything in
the shape of Pasteur. See it, Habigle? No!
Well p’raps it’s past your comprehension.
The scene of the best story in Sala’s new
book, “ All Round the World,”is laid in Timaru
N.Z. It is entitled “Artful Mr. Macguffog or
The Afflicted Contractor. ”
Mr. Guimaraes, a Portuguese inventor, is
said to have made a new repeating gun called the
Archimedes, which requires neither powder nor
compressed air. It is said to carry quite as far as
any ordinary army rifle.
The Down and Goitre e scientist says,
“There is a kind of ant in Honduras winch’
preys upon houses, and when once started lie
soon eats one down." We haven't encountered
this ant yet in Australia, but N.S.W. possesses
an Uncle whose pawnshop we will back to
eat not only the house but the furniture and
bedding as well, in shorter time than any ant yet
constructed. We, therefore, challenge the Gum
tree to bring along its insect. A race between an
ant and a “ bank would be an inspiriting and
elevating spectacle for everybody except the owner
of the property experimented upon, and so long
as neither backer resorts to any unfair devices, such
as prodding his reptile on to superhuman activity
with a pin, we hold that the proceedings would lie
legitimate sport, and calculated to promote that
noble spirit which does not consist, in paying :»0.,
in the £.


CORRESPONDENCE
“H.V.A.”: We are tired of hearing about the
swindles, embezzlements, and so on of the family named.
“Temora”: As we once read somewhere or other, the
quarrels of newspaper editors are no more interesting to
l lie public than the quarrels of rival clothiers. If, when-
ever one went to buy something in a store, the proprietor
insisted on one’s waiting to hear what a scoundrel his
competitor over the way was, how long would he keep
any custom ? “ C'.C.W.”: You mustn’t reckon a man’s
value by his salary. Bismarck gets £2OOO a year less than
Oarington “ Marco ” : There is a deal in a name; But
not always a square deal.... “New Chum” (D’hurst):
Thanks, but already dealt with —in last issue....“ Oyster
.Johnnie”: Will read, and return if unsuitable....
“J.b.P.”: Handed to artist....“ E. Mongredien”: The
torture system having been adopted by Australian law-
makers, it is qitite a shanie that the efficacy of boiling to
death as a means Of social reform should have been over-
looked. You justify torture ; now tell us, pray, how you
fix the point at which torture should cease...." F.’,
Cairns, N.Q.); Sentiment good: -
“ Let us all help one another;
‘ dabbagee ’ is good, no doubt;
Buy it off your white-skinned brothel,
Kick the filthy Chinkie out.”
....“It. O. Dohnell :” Will print sooner or later....
‘ Mary Ann ”: The Archbishop of Canterbury is
wrong when he says that early marriage amongst
the lower classes is an evidence of immorality, and
the disinclination to marriage amongst the aristocracy
an evidence of prudence and thrift. The inference to lie
drawn is just the reverse: the latter is a proof only of
selfishness, and explains tile existence of that dreadful
cancer—the social evil. So many unmarried Women
amongst the lower classes mean so many abandonneeS for
the use of the upper. It is a hideous fact that the head
of the Protestant Church in England has by his recent
utterances shown himself a convert to Malthusianism, the
negation of Christianity and the foe to humanity.
.../‘Co-operative Workman”: The N.Z. Factory
Bill does limit the working day to eight hours.
A Bill to specify tlie number of hours in a legal work,
ing day is badly needed in every Australasian colon}’....
“ Duaringa ” (Rockhampton): If the Central Queensland
squatter wants to fight we won’t hinder him. Let him go
ahead “A Subscriber” (Cobar): Vide Mr. Adams’
letter in last week’s Bulletin. The matter is still a sub-
ject of contention....“ Jas. Lessells”: You are right.
The Bulletin was first issued in February, 1880.... “E.
Watson ”: The man who growls about the weather of
this glorious Austral land will, 10 or 20 years hence, be
telling mashers with no hair on the top of their heads
about, the splendid scorching summers we had in the
olden time when the Australian Republic was a de-
pendency of Great Britain “ Sylvanus ” : Thanks.
Please write again “J.H.8.”: Good suggestion
“A.P.”: Your boast that you “have won a place in the
world ”is a sufficiently modest one. It might have been
justifiably made by J. Iscariot, C.M.G—“D.S.R.”: We
must tiave mislaid your M. 5... “ Kurrajong ” (Brisbane) :
Many thanks “Constant Subscriber” (Croydon,
<y): Thanks.... “A. Angus ” : Yes. Why hasn’t Speaker
Groom be6n knighted ? He would take a title.... “A
Yokel ”: If you would learn what really takes place in
England, order Reynolds’ Newspaper (address, Strand,
London), which, with postage, will only cost you two-
pence weekly. One number of it will open your eyes....
“ B.B.” : The large majority of Chinese “ emigrants ” are
criminals. They are collected by agents as they leave the
prisons, and shipped off for “ a new chance ” and a “ for-
tune” in Australia....“ D.F.” (TJsmore): We don't
abject to a man dabbling in literature because lie’s a
butcher. But we object to his placing himself in a repre-
sentative literary position when lie’s a, presumptuous and
uncultured humbug....“ Reg'. Shaw”: Are you quite
shavv, now, that it’s original ?....“ Boho ” : The lady isn’t
f reckjed, and she is too artful to let anybody know much
about her teeth “ Italia ” (Joppa Junction): The visit-
ing-justice. o| a gaol cauffogon liis own account for breaches
of prison discipline ; but in open court two magistrates
must concur in passing a sentence which carries lashes.....
“ I ” (Melb.): We don’t exactly catch the meaning of your
statement re Chaff ey. ..." A. Marker ” : Nearly all
trouble in Ireland, comes from the fact that English insti-
tutions in that_eountry are those of Russia in Poland.. .
“S. Jervaulx": Many thanks. The information will be
most useful “Teuton” (Rockhampton); We judge
Griffith by his actions —not by his words. He and, his
Cabinet have talked a species of washy socialism, but they
have grabbed land all the time, and have clone more to
scatter tlie public estate than MTlwraith ever did. But
they are men of noble sentiments, and at last election
they took in the guileless German population by liiagni-
ficent generalities which meant nothing. They seem to
have taken a loan of y0u.... “Enigma ”: Youi; letter is
well written in regard to style and, unanswerable in regard,
to argument. Have posted a paper, to y0u.... “J. A .
Your letter is very 10ng..“ W. W.” : A summons lapses
at the date appointed, for it to be, heard should the plaintiff
tail to put in an appearance. Should tlie defendant on
the other hand neglect to file information of intention
within the time specified on tlie notice, to defend, judge-
ment'is entered up on the application of the plaintiff
without going before the Small Debts Court. Under
British law the husband is responsible for the liabilities of
his wife whether contracted before marriage or after
“ Aroz”: You could, certainly devise’ your property to
your children, but their father might, by an application
i,o the Court, manage to reinstate himself as their guar-
dian in the event of their mother’s demise until
such time as they (the children) attained their
majority. Surely the lawyer whom you may em-
ploy to draw up your will can explain all. the details of
the case you cite “Tig Tig” (Mittagong): Your
patriarch is too parochial for treatment.
A Goulburn-street Chinaman is named
Lie Young. They all. do it.
Phil. Robinson, it has now transpired, not
long ago wrote a highly 'eulogistic “imaginative
sketch ” of ’ Mrs. Gordon-Baillie for the CoCRT
and Society Review.
Sydney News stated, the other day, that
the body of a, newly-born infant was discovered
by a labourer at Newtown, securely packed in a
box;’ The worthy toiler placed the box under liis
arm, and carried’ it to the nearest police-station.
The size of the box was, according to the Lyre,
14ft. x Bft. x oft. After wading through our
arithmetic, we have come to the conclusion that
the labourer’s arm must have measured about
13ft. Gin.
The N.S.W. Social Purity organisation
intends offering a prize for virtue. What is the
use of doing this ? The result is a foregone con-
clusion —Parkes will get the money.
It has transpired that Mr. “Jumbo”
Armstrong, the barrister-at-law and Primrose
Leaguer (brother-in-law of Mr. Justice Innes) got
£443 in N.S.W. Crown-fees for the month of
December last!
Parkes says that half his friends are
amongst the poorer part of the population. What
he meant to say, no doubt, was that half his
enemies are poor. They were once friends, and
lent him money.
On the Brighton (Vic.) Government line,
the other day, a raid was made by the railway
officials, ahd 147 passengers were foiind travelling
either without tickets, or with expired oiies. This
could not possibly happen in N.S. Wales. The
raid we mean.
A banquet is to be given to the leader of
the Victorian Opposition (Mr. T. Bent) as a
salVe for some charges laid against that gentle-
man in connection with certain graVel-pits at Ken-
sington. The Secretary to the banquet com-
inittee is Mr; Mint-Sauce Jones ! What grim
humorists!
The late Judge Fellows, Victoria, when
at the bar, was generally supposed to hold in
Contempt the minor courts or “ courts below. ”
The present Judge Quinlan, whose practice prin-
cipally lay itl the “courtsbelow,’’once appeared ih
the Supreme Court to prosecute an appeal from
the County Court, and, in opening, said ; “That
there had been a very learned argument in the
court below over the ease.” Fellows, who
happened to be in a surly mood that morning, in-
terjected with a loud laugh : “ A learned argu-
ment ! Think of a learned argument before
Judge Cope! ”
The Argus has an
evening paper on the
stocks. What, again!
Poor Argus !
The other day a
joint-stock company was
floated in Sydney, capital
£lOO,OOO. The origina
tor of the scheme, into
which the public rushed
as if after the bell-wether,
spent in it £BOO, more or
less, and has now made
out of it £50,000! What
lias the company to show
for its one hundred thou-
sand pounds ?
W. E. Johnston,
the Victorian Crown-
Prosecutor, is at present
taking relaxation from
prosecuting burglars and
horse-thieves by rambling
on the shores of tlie
Beautiful Harbour. This
‘ ‘ party by the name of
Johnston” is son of
James Stewart Johnston,
who, in the early forties,
kept an hotel in Mel-
bourne, and is now one of
the trustees of the Mel-
bourne Argus. W. E.’s
brother is secretary of
the Bohemian Club, of
Melbourne, which lias
distinguished itself only
by entertaining Lora
Dudley with corned heef
and cabbage,
The ennobled Smith
who represents Her Pre-
eminence in Grief in
N.S.W. is not the only
man who has gone back on
his name. Thirty or forty
years ago there was an
old soldier settled in New
Zealand named O’Toole.
His descendants have
euphemised his patrony-
mic into Tole, and it
seems to have brought
them luck. Qne of them,
the Hon. Joseph T< >k -
who, by the way, matri-.
culated at Sydney Uni-
versity—was Minister of
Justice in the Stout-.
Yogel Ministry; a
brother of his is Chief
Commissioner of Crown
Lands for Auckland,
while a third (s a Govern-,
rnent surveyor.
Since crushing commenced 18 months ago
Croydon (N.Q.) has yielded 50,5000 z, gold.
E. W. Foxall is going through the N.S.W.
provinces lecturing on Land Nationalisation to
considerable audiences with much success.
‘ ‘ Mrs. Doctor Potts ” h,as been continuing
her triumphant march through New Zealand.
The delicate young man, tired of being physicked
by his own sex, seeks from the fair Anna her
delightful nostrums and feels him,self once more
ip bloojn.
The late Mr. Gregory Board, of Sydney,
whom an enterprising housekeeper thought it
advisable to conserve to herself ' even at the ex-
pense of a charge of powder and shot devoted to
tlie scaring off of his son, left behind him the
sum of £208,292.
“Lady Brassey,” says a London paper,
“ made a special request before her death to her
daughter, the Hon. Mabelle Brassey, that when
she was married—as she is to, be shortly, to Mr.
G. A. Egerton—she would obtain the whole of
her trousseau from, the Donegal Industrial Fund,
and,so benefit the distressed Irish workers.”
Sydney D.T. claims for N.S.W. proud
pre-eminence’ iii scuffing, cycling, cricket, foot-
runniiig, turf-winners, jockeys, sailing, swimming,
and boxing, hi each of which departments of
sport she holds' tlie championship of Australia.
This is very good, but, by the way, N.S.W. has
also the champion “redrhot burning, brand, of
shame, ” the champion usurer in high places, the
champion insolvent in high places, the champion
tippler in high places, the champion shallower of
little girlsround dark corners, and she also, takes,
the cake for drunkenness, ignorance, the hanging
of boys of tender years, disgraced solicitors, sus-
pended officials,’ ferocious’ judges, stupid juries,
corrupt police, fighting politicians, religious rene-
gades' who make political capital out of their
apostacy, sensational.parsons on land-jobs, a pan-
dering pr.ess, and a looney Governor.
The Patriot Ah Hayn[?].
The other day The Bulletin pointed out the
intense parochialism of the Australian Natives’ As-
sociation, a “National” organisation which
excluded from its ranks Australians born
in old-world lands. Thereupon a little clique
of discredited political job-grubbers and rouse-
about demagogues now pretend to recognise
this, and, headed by Mudgee Haynes, they
loudly denounce the “contracted provin-
cialism of the Victorian Purvks’ proposal.”
They announce themselves per medium of the
little man from Cork to be adverse to the resolu-
tions submitted by the Victorian deputation at
the recent Sydney meeting, “it being the
opinion of those identified with the present move-
ment that the idea of an exclusive Australian
Natives’ Association is small and unworthy of
support.” They consider that it “ perpetuates
racial distinctions,” that it is “ unjust to men not
Australian-born, who founded the Australian em-
pire ” —these men, after all, are only Imperialists
—“ and help now to give it character and strength
before the world,” and, finally, that “ the cultiva :
tion of an Australian sentiment must be attempted
on a wide, statesmanlike basis. ” After reading this
generous and far-reaching statement of principles
yoli might think that tlie present movement
really had a broad basis. But not so. The last
sentence cooks its goose entirely. The i - eal fact
is that the. present stump-orators desire to
filake it a “ Sydney-side ” movement, and are too
narrow-minded and too jealous to take a hint
from another coldny. This sentence kills com-
pletely all their liberalism :
“ The speakers, whose names will be duly arinounced,
wilt be all Australian born, and the chair Ml be taken
by an Australian."
But, apart from this, it is sufficient for Young
Australia to know that the greatest political
shuffler who ever stepped in snoe-leather is the
presiding Mephistopheles in this movement, to
shun it. He is a noxious wriggler, who shame-
lessly makes political capital out of his religious
apostacy-"-he has on every possible public ques-
AN AUSTRALIAN “NATIVE”; SIR RICHARD) WHITTINGTON FOUR
TIMES LORD MAYOR OF SALE (VIC.)
tion, except) one, turned and twisted, squirmed,
and bounced, and grovelled. He ran a paper to
support Jennings and abuse Parses, and started
with Djbbs as a deity, only to drag his idol
in the mud when he could no longer secure adver-
tisements through, the use of its Shibboleth. The
unutterable degradation of his position can be
faintly appreciated when it is remembered that
when Parkes' — the man whom Haynes had
formerly ridiculed and traduced—told Mudge£, in
scalding and scathing terms of contempt
and disgust, that he (Parkes) “ wanted neither
Mr. Haynes.’ support in the House nor his ac-
quaintance outside of it,” this new champion of
Australian Nationalism dropped down on his pitiful
knees and fawned and cringed and frantically
hung on to Pabkes’ tattered political robe. And
this is the man who, with his confederate Down-
ing, another hireling bummer of the York-street
shoddymongers, aspires to lead Young Australia !
At latest advices, 170 Protectionists and ten
Foreign-traders were in the field in Queensland.
The North is a live country, and has made up its
mind not to settle down into the petrified, grass-
grown state of premature old age which is the dis-
tinguishing brand of New South Wales. It wants
to lay the foundations of future prosperity—not
the artificial prosperity whiqh comes of big loans
expended on unprofitable railways in order, to
keep the population from mutiny, and which col-
lapses like a house of cards when the last loan is
spent and only the interest remains, but the pros-,
perjty of a.country which has built up manufac-
tures and developed its internal resources, and is
no longer dependent on the outside world for the
necessaries of existence. In a land where, such a
sentiment prevails there is.no room for a Foreign-
trade faction; and, consequently,' both of the
political leaders have gone for Protection. The
attempt to build up a third party for
the purpose of running Queensland in the
interests of the large Brisbane importers
has broken down miserably, and the eternal
Terewth as expounded by the greedy ring of Man-
chester is supported by only ten forlorn and
hooted candidates whose alleged principles are an
object of derision throughout the colony. After
the Queensland election New South Wales will
stand alone amid the States of Australasia —the
solitary supporter of a bowled-out faith—a land
which is dying that the German and Chinaman
may live ; and when the dissolution of her exist-
ing Parliament sends Pa rkks into private life,
there to live on the interest of a public charity,
she also will go for Protection, and the foreign
manufacturers who have so long lived upon Aus-
tralia must look for other worlds to exploit.
The Land of Goschen—the British Isles.
Mr. Haynes has not been editing the
Evening News quite so much this week.
A Queensland paper says “ This is the
year when the girls leap.” Not so. It is the year
when the girls are fly.
Why is the N.S.W. State House Bill like
the letter “ H,” as manipulated by ’Enery
Parkes ? Because intelligent people don’t like it
in (H)Australia, and Sir ’Enery is sure to drop it
in the ’Ouse very soon.
An alleged golden venture in the Armidale
(N.S.W.) district is known as the “Warm Corner
Mine.” Three parts of the gold-mines in N.S.
Wales have a good case against the owners of that
claim for pirating their just title.
Groom, the notorious Queensland As-
sembly Speaker, has a clear gift of the gab, but
he talks of his own and other people’s “ ’ands and
’carts,” and his wrath over the Land Grant Rail-
way Had is thoroughly Parkesian.
The testamentary arrangements of Mr.
Ben. Hepburn, a Ballarat sporting identity, are
regarded as somewhat peculiar. He (so the papers
say) left his wife £.500 and a yearly income of
£7OO, and to Miss MfKissock, of the Club Hotel,
“a perfect stranger,” he bequeathed just double
that amount.
Nicholas B. Downing (late of Penzance,
England), the N.S.W. Freetrade spouter, was
neatly cornered by Protectionist Rose at Bathurst;
the other evening, by means of these questions :
“ 1. As Freetrade teaches unrestricted competition in
commodities, must it not also teach unrestricted competi-
tion in labour, considering that commodities are the re-
sult of labour? 2. As Trades Unionism is formed for the
purpose of restricting competition in labour, is not
Trades Unionism a violation of the principles of Free-
trade V 3. If high wages need no protection from low
wages, explain why our iron-workers at 11s. per day can-
not make railway locomotives against the English labour
of 6s. per day ; also why the better-paid Australian labour
cannot compete against the low-paid Chinese labour en-
gaged in cabinet-making ?
Dear Bulletin, — I read in the papers that
last Sunday morning “Archbishop Dunne blessed
the bell of St. Stephen’s R.C. Cathedral at Bris-
bane.” Now, it may interest your Queensland
readers ta know that every Sunday morning I lie
in bed at the Oxford Hotel, Sydney, and curse all
the church Bells that ever rang since the founda-
tion of the world. lam a sick and sleepless man,
and the unceasing- row of the clergy’s bullock bells
deprive me of my rest. I cannot move away- I
am compelled to. stay in, my present otherwise
comfortable quarters, for my doctor, whom I have
constantly to see, lives round the corner. Church-
bells are a relic of barbarism, utterly unadapted
to the high-strung civilisation of the present day,
and should be suppressed. You cannot, however,
expect the parsons to tie up their clappers in
stockings, for the stockings of the priests and
deacons and elders are too fuff. Nor can you hope
that the clergy will abolish bells, for bells are
part if the machinery, part of the pomp and
circumstance of their trade, just as are black
coats and pious smiles and magnificent churches
wherefrom poor women are dragged if they wil-
fully or ignorantly sit down m the cushioned
front seats instead of humbly taking their places in
the back. In these days, when a striking clock
can be bought for four-and-sixpence and a watch
for five half-crowns, no man or woman who really
wishes to pray needs a savage row to remind
him or her that there is a God. Church-bells don’t
remind people that God exists ; they only serve
to recall the fact that the parson is on the warpath.
And yet the very men who wantonly and callously,
deprive me of my hard-earned rest and inflict the
utmpst mjsery morning and night on every sick,
woman or man who happens to be—and who is
not?—within sound of their cracked lumps of
gun metal, are the people who. prosecute news,-,
paper-boys for disturbing the Sabbath calm, by
shouting out op Sunday iqorning ! 1 don’t;,
believe in the noisy news-vendor, but, being
logical, neither do. I believe in the holy
cow-bell. Some of these days we shall have
a level-headed parson who, wants to, keep up,
the sensationalism of his show and declare fat
dividends and amass a reserve-fund, putting up a,
steam-foghorn at his tabernacle. And why
shouldn’t there be steam-whistles at the churches ?
Is it not merely because the steam T whistle on the
steeple would be an innovation, whereas the moss
of antiquity ha? grown.over the cow-bell ? Yours
truly, Walter Greenwood.
A Song of Protection.
IMPORTED, YOU KNOW.
(With Apologies to N. I’". Life.)
Oh, why is the Anglo-Australian proud ?—
His style is imported, you know.
But why is his manner iiisuffrably loud ? —
That’s also imported, you know.
With “ Lunnun-made” raiment he cuts a great
dash ;
For everything “ Hinglish ” he shells oitt his cash 5
No matter the value, to him all is trash
That is not imported, you know.
His wines and cigars are the best to be had—
They’re freshly imported, you know.
He makes it a point to adopt the last “ fad ”
That has been imported, you know.
With a little round window stuck into his eye,
He ogles humanity as from on high.
An asinine figure to cut he doth try—
The notion’s imported, you know.
It makes a plain Cornstalk excessively tired,
To see things imported, you know ;
Placed up on a pedestal to be admired,
Because they’re imported, you know.
And this Anglomaniac with his odd ways*
Who spends time and Wealth on some imported
craze,
Assuredly should, for the rest of his days,
Be quickly exported, you know,


“I have found Mr. W. F. Cauni’s Phosphorised Iron
Quinine Tonic superior to any cithers I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer.” Prepared
only by W. F. GAUNT, The Pharmacy, Camperdown.
Obtainable from all Chemists. Take no substitutes.
dK T, K ?, an be effectually eradicated by
U „ ■ 77 U , the use of Clements’FßECKiißßAjfE.
Irecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements’, 141 King
Street, Newtown, MW., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists,
beware of worthless imitations.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
I Theatre Royal—“ Princess Ida.". . n u
Her Majesty’s Theatre—“ Faust ” 1
Criterion Theatre—“ Sophia ” . ”
Royal Standard Theatre.—Burlesque Company.'' ”
Alhambra Musio Hall.—Minstrelsy ”
The attendance at Sydney Royal was dis-
ngured by spots of baldness on the second night of
Princess Ida, from which we gather that a
sheep-headed branch of the Aryan family Iras not
fully caught on to the beauties of that opera. The
tun of Princess Ida ”isof a subdued and hidden
d f'Ti r ' P l ? n ’ llkean elephant’s-breath ball costume
at the bottom of a ooal pit, and most of the people
vho saw it on the first night are now lying’ on
their faces endeavouring to think out the jokes,
xMany of these belong to the smothered order of
architecture, and are not immediately visible
» aked u e ye of citizens in the lower
alks of life, but the opera appeals strongly
to the intellect of the upper classes, and
should receive the warmest support from car-
dinals, betting-men, and Broken Hill share-
holders. The story is lovely in its simplicity,
Mid can be bought from the boy at the door for a
Ir Ga ??£’ J bandy-legged king, who seems
o have been lifted in the course of some rock-
blasting expermients in early life, comes over the
IUI at the back of the stage to explain to Hilde-
brand, another king—there are slathers of kings in
. opera and princes are as plentiful as gum—that
us daughter has made up her mind to repudiate
tie Homage ceremony which was performed over
ler at the early age of one, and will see Hilde-
irand s heir-apparent blessed first. The lady it
ppears, has shut herself up in a castle surrounded
,h cactus, nettles, bull-pups, and broken bottles,
■nd, along with 100 other girls, she scorns the
bject which is made by nine tailors, and devotes
erselt to the study of obscure science. The two
mgs roar at each other for awhile after these
mts come out, but ultimately Gama is
tmt up on bread and water along with
'lr u e quarrelsome sons, and Hildebrand
u bushes a fierce yet grammatical howl for troops,
n the next act a young man disguised as a
r oman gets drunk in a ladies’ seminary, and Ida
ills into a brook out of which she is hauled by
le back hair. Before she has time to dry herself
quantity of troops get over the wall, and the
rincess has to hang about, at the risk of rheu-
atism, to argue with them. Ultimately, how-
T r ’, gets away and shakes herself and has a
ib-down, and after a considerable display of
ibtary ironmongery the Princess surrenders just
time for the last tram home.
# •
certain amount of dulness disfigures
Princess Ida ” in places, but when the audience
ive struggled through the wastes of the first act
moderately cheering prospect lies before them.
ie scenery belongs to the gorgeous order, anil the
chestra is of a most satisfactory description. Miss
lonora Braham as Ida looks every inch a priri-
ss —not the princess of real life, who is generally
me, and fat, and haunted by a cold, but the
?al animal as she ought to be. Her voice is in
tiecially goodjeondition, and the song “I built
on a rock,” is a marvel of plaintive melody,
it the success of the piece is Miss Aggie Kel-
-ISi?°ng ’ A . k(1 > T fa i r of lineage Hgh was
•i .7 , an 111 tke da y« gone by,” and as she
ished tears of joy trickled down the audience.
lss A lice Barnett is larger than ever in a rather
happy part, and Miss May Pollard helps
r m .a way that promises Well for her
ure if she lives long enough. Gama,
mg—who, like a certain viceroy we wot of
i space for a wheelbarrow between his lems
I is afflicted with a cheese-coloured counten-
!e, is run with a great fund of humour by Mr
mom Mr. Duncan Young is a high-class
anon, though the part seems to try his voice
I he looks now and then as if he were swallow-
something large; and Mr. Edwin Kelly is a
tty dull old monarch, who isn’t of very' much
ount. Mr. Woodfield is held over for con-
iration,
it Sydney Gaiety the departing Dumpier
inning a race against Time in the effort to
■oduoe a larger number of plays before he goes
i any other Caucasian citizen ever produced
»re. On Saturday night his exertions in this
etion led to the reappearance of Pettitt and
quests “ Royal Pardon,” an incoherent drama
everal screams,, in which gilded Vice spends
*s on a tearing burst of prosperity, while
me is wrecked on a barren coast and has to
je gorillas and chimpanzees. The wicked
marries the good man’s wife, and flourishes
a green-bay tree, while the unjustly ac-
d individual whose public-house used to
d by the sea-shore in the old happy
is living on clams in a heathen land,
towards the end the bad man’s pal loses his
:et-book, and then Nemesis follows. The de-
ed sharebroker is digging a hole with a tall
m, and gets locked out, and when he returns
,11s out of a window, leaving behind him the
mces of his sin tied up in a red pocket-hand-
nef. The “ Royal Pardon ’ has since given
I to Life in the Goal Pits, ’ a drama which
des an Underground explosion and various
; moral influences; and behind this comes
nello ” and other Variations on the gamut of
in woe,
*# * #
King’s Congress of Specialists,” who now
j Sydney Academy, are a crowd who require
seen to be believed—in fact we incline to
that they require to be seen twice over,
we are not absolutely sure that they
1 be believed even then. The show
Termed on Saturday with the funereal, moss-
n hat trick—the old, time-crusted, lichen-
ed dodge of our childhood, and when this
in ished the “ Professor ” hid himself behind
)le, and put a cannon-ball in the bell-
r, which ammunition afterwards droppjd
in to the floor amid screams of sur-
from the audience. The hat was reason-
suspected of being Manager Hiscocks’ own
;e chimney-pot, lie being the only individual
.ow seen to enter with a tile of that descrip-
Some awkward fooling with an intelligent
nd an umbrella followed. Later on, the
Professor, as the Fakir of Oolu, exhibited a
tanding on a stool and propped up with a
‘tick on either side, and, having mesmerised
e took away the stool and one of the sup-
Consequently she was left floating in the
r one stick. If the Fakir had absent-
dly removed the other stick, the
ice would have seen that the lady
_ attached by any mechanism to the
it, and that her sleeve didn’t hang down
it did for the purpose of concealing the con-
i; but luckily the man of magic spells re-
ins presence of mind and saved her an
rd falL A considerably more valuable
ion than the- Fakir was Signor Bartaldo,
human serpent, who threw his head about in the
most reckless manner and stretched his neck to the
dimensions of several feet ; also Mdle. Franzini
a lady on a demoniac bicycle. A very common
Male child was billed as “The Boy Wonder” and
didn t seem to know exactly what to do about it.
1 , ] /, aklr , kindly stated that the programme
would be changed twice a week to keep it from
going; Daa.
## # #
Sundry shows of various ages hang out in
different parts of Sydney, like the old girls of
last summer left stranded upon the rocky coast of
lime. haust tears along at Her Majesty’s
With increasing popularity, and every time
Mephistopheles appears the steam is turned on
as it bheol were one vast washing day. “ Sophia ”
is in her sixth week at the Criterion and looks
pretty tall for her age. “ Venus and Adonis ”is
m preparation at the Royal Standard, and “ Don
Juan Junior, will be handed over to the worm
that dieth not at an early date ; also the Fisk
J übilee Singers hold the Opera House as before.
* *
Messrs. Rollinson and Grant have turned
the Old Masonic Hall (York-street, Sydney) into
a skating rink. ‘ 4 Professor ” Rollinson risks his
precious Heck in wonderful bicycle performances
while Grant looks on and cheers him to his de-
struction The same firm are running the rink at
the .Exhibition Building, where the public can
lose their balance and fall amid all the latest ap-
pliances of the age.
* * <* #
At several of the Melbourne theatres plays
are coming and going with each succeeding week,
I hey are here to-day and gone to-morrow, almost
as soon as The Bulletin has pronounced a bene-
diction. Short, but merry, are the lives of the
Princess s shows, and the Charles Warner “ star ”
system is answering beyond expectation. “Lon-
don Assurance” drew vigorously, and “The
BOTH DEAD-BROKE
SMITH: “DO YOU DRINK?”
BROWN: “YES.”
SMITH: “SO DO I.”
tool's Revenge," put up on Saturday, also pro
imses to do its little week on its little head. Mr
Warner makes much of the dominant character
Bertuccio the jester who sports a humpy hack
and is more or less identical with Rigoletto—bu
he is a trifle heavy, and prone to gasp unduly
Moreover, he is too tall on the leg for this piotur
esque part; his inches being incompatible with ;
hump. Miss Grade Warner, as the jester’s belovec
ewe-lamb stolen from the family fold to feed the
licentious appetite of a naughty Italian lord, acts
prettily so far as in her lies. The remainder o
the cast wear rich raiment and move amid libera
surroundings. “ Old Heads and Young Hearts ’
to follow. There has been little merriment aboul
the brief careers of Alexandra drammers, under
the present management. The first two were born
in sorrow, with the undertaker shadowing their
early footsteps. But on Saturday, when the
‘•Ring of Iron” was rung in, an attenuated
attendance expressed its satisfaction with an em-
phasis which shed a gleam of hope upon the
proaeedings. The “Ring of Iron,” as may be
remembered, is a story of suffering virtue put
into a lunatic asylum, and also contains a
good deal of honest working man, together
with a sawdust baby and other matters. Miss
Blanche Lewis diffuses a lot of Ellen Terry-like
grace and considerable pathos over the female
lead, while Miss Emma Fischer makes a nice
sassiety girl. Augustus Glover villainises in a
robust voice, and the poor but honest business is
wnll sustained by Geo. Carey, Harry Taylor, and
Miss May Hill. With liberal scenery and a low
scale of charges this show deserves a leg up. The
, ‘ ;, ' a House is another temple of art
which keeps breaking out in a fresh place.
Just now the Vivians are playing “The
Green Bushes,” but those grand old shrubs
won t take deep root in their present soil. Apropos
™ tins warning prediction, it may be remarked
that the Melbourne acting market has lately been
flooded with some rather shoddy goods, indicating
that the public taste is less particular than it was
, P ere ( are no chops and changes at
babble lit 61 ti ew . Babylon” continues to
babble on like the pertinacious brook. Frank
cSIF bnS U in tlon hII the y-toria Hall, and th
Ooghills hold their own, and add to it.
## # #
tw be f as y is g°ing around hinting
that the robbery of Nellie Stewart’s trunk was
herZe r w m°T *, Th ? Same bad man »»ys that the
heiome will shortly lie rescued from a waterv
3ent e ’ and’ 7b ly “W £ thrillin g carriage-accf
dent, and (if possible) hgure prominently in
Zealand er A? tlon when th e company reach New
Zealand. Also we are shortly to hear of Nellie
alhgator Snakeblte and b cing chased by a ,
Our old friend Ada Ward, who is a line
actress in unsympathetic parts, is diffusing her
bounteous smile around Australia once again.
Mr. Charles Arnold arrived by the same boat
under engagement to Brough and Boucicault He
otherTuggage? 7 “ infant pbenome non and
*# * #
, The Essie. Jenyns faction mustered in
SebL tW l IJO, V ,n Saturday, for the sake of
seein D that magnetic young lady do Portia. Once
fed M f 9 b ant of Venice ” stood or
wasn’t nn lock ’ a “ d , lf *■ llat hoary unbeliever
wasn t up to established sample, then, in the
beautiful words of Bland Holt’s ballad, “over
went the show. Mr. William Holloway, fortu-
ately, is relieved of any responsibility as regards
ioflee U tinn SS ° f hIS revi . val - His Shyloclc is a rough
reflection upon an ancient race, with a fatal pro-
pensity for roaring sarcasms through his nose but
nobody seems to trouble one penny anathema
about the Jew or anybody else, bar Portia. In
thin m inland * J T 18 i e,SS libe Mary Anderson
than usual, and perhaps less effective than usual
on that account. Messrs. Robert Inman and
Albert Norman look and speak well, in one of
which respects Mr. Stewart makes a respectable
Gratiano. Miss Constance Deorwyn, too, not to
mention Hodson and Dobson, would pass muster
in a more imposing crowd. On April 27th the
idol Essie takes a well-earned benefit, and the
ladies may be expected to roll up in elegant
profusion.
'A- -A ; 'it
“ Dorothy ” is enjoying a rather unex-
pected run of three weeks at Adelaide Royal, a
result which is probably owing in great part to
the chorus. Pious cities always take a deep
interest m chorus-girls, chiefly on account of their
immortal souls. Hudson’s troupe has been
strengthened a good deal of late, and Fred. Mac-
cabe has been carrying on a moderate-sized failure
at the Albert Hall.
** * *
Essie Jenyns has been engaged to eat her
next Christmas dinner with the Creswicks in Eng-
land. The clever young lady is going “ home ”to
get some more ideas and a fresh stock of poses.
And i f she will re-construct her stage voice on a
new model (turning up Mary Anderson’s basso
profundo for good), there is no reason why Essie
shouldn’t return to Australia so much like a really
great actress that we shan’t be able to tell the dif-
ference.
#* # #
It is said that Mr. .J. C. Williamson will
now pitch his tent in Sydney for a permanency,
and personally supervise matters at the Royal.
-ff- -A- 'fc
Mine. Gerster recently went to hear the
much-married lima de Murska sing at New York.
De Murska is 6!) years of age and Mine Gerster is
the°£ S a? a V e lid - Uncharitable P«'sons spoke of
hospital. 1 ° f * le infirmary warbling to the
## # #
It seems that John Clayton, the actor (a
otice of whom appeared in The Bulletin souk
Kj 8 a^’ di ed suddenly from erysipelas in tm
T“ t - Id ' e wr iter of “Social Gossip” in the
other ina ccuracies, that
“ Chi. H if I'* 1 '* of 01i ver Cromwell in
created H >e * ff*,' r J fc was Georgeßelmore who
play d ’ "° r dKI Cla y fcon ew r appear in the
Mr,-. Piercy (Miss Augusta Dargon) has
taken up her residence for good in Sydney.
m f I Va,S /fL V - eV i SO n l ' lfe as now for the return
to the stage of this brilliant actress.
'<(' 'A' #
An author sent to the late John Clayton a
pky, one which John thought highly improper.
He returned it with the following words “My
Clayton ” 01 ’ lUy <lear sir ! Yours truly, John
## # #
At the close of that prolonged howl of
r;X7 r a L ld p 'Aperies “In the Ranks,” Kate
Bishop, the Ruth Herrick of the shindy, presented
each of her tmy bridesmaids with a little silver
bangle, to which was attached a Jubilee sixpence.
Buffalo Bill is a perplexed William. He can't
make out why Wales held off so mud. from his
snow, and it never dawns oil this thick-headed
wild man of the woods that a few girls in tight,;
nere wanted to fetch the heir-apparent. A hew
theatre is to be erected in Currie-street, Adelaide
at a cost of over £5OOO. Now, what kind of a
theatre do the saints imagine they will get for
• r * ‘ Gordon, a deep-bass gentle
man in Mel bourne, sued Williamson, Garner, and
Musgrove for £5OO. He states that he wi
engaged to play Mephistopheles after the death o
t edenei, and was dismissed without due causi
Verdict, however, for the defendants. .
Oakley Lrowne, brother to the famous Mont>
has left the literary staff of the Wellington (N./i
OS'r, and embarked in the theatrical agency bus
ness. 11 took 26 women three weeks to embroidt
the cloak worn by Mary Anderson in “ i
Winters fale. It has been decided that Mrs
r°wn I otter and Kyrle Bellew can’t play t,<
gethei. I otter is very tall, and Bellew is shoi
and bandy-legged, consequently it is felt that I
run them together would only excite derision
;Y ax O Kell has been a great failure in America
Charles Dickens is the only man who has mad
money by lecturing in the States this year, am
Ins prosperity is owing to the fact that mos
people over there take him for his own father
I hey are beginning to find out now that he isn'
his own father. They say that Sarah Bernhardt'
pet tiger was killed by eating a box of anti-fa
pills which M. Sarcey had brought to the act
ress for her own use. This is rather thin, how.
, ' ver \, ham-bone is corpulent compared to Sarah.
Ail Lnghsh paper observes “that some of tin
nasty dramas that have been lately produced ii
London have been too nasty for even that section
ot sassiety that likes its mental food in a
gamey Condition. These two operatic gentle-
men, Denbigh Newton and Frank Rid,sdale, an
said to have indulged in a friendly wrestling-
match recently in a hotel, The bill for broken
crockery and furniture was something awful.
•John Bryan is losing flesh rapidly in Brisbane, ■
his present weight is 18 stone, but he still ent. r tains
tlm idea of playing the Apothecary in “Romeo
o T it 1,1 i let ' 1 r, r] le explosion that takes place in
i . Enemy,'’ now playing in Brisbane,
brought the Army out the other night, an im-
pression having got around that the drama was a
Russian invasion. Several more actresses have
been getting their jewellery stolen. When an
actress cannot get a newspaper par. by ordinary
means her jewellery always goes. Jewellery for
actresses to have stolen from them under circum-
stances of a particularly atrocious character is
sold m London at nothing a quart. Miss Leah
1 hompson, eldest daughter of Mr. Joseph Thomp
son, of Melbourne, will shortly appear on the
stage. The vivacious young lady's voice is said to
be equal to the melodious vocal organ of Nellie,
Stewart. They say that Mary Anderson cuts a poor
figure on horseback. Which reminds us that
Minnie Palmer isn’t a paralysing success when
she gets outside a ’oss. Miss Fortescue, the jilted
girl of Lari Cairns, fell down the well of a lift
at a London hotel. She was taken —ye gods !to
Westminster Hospital, but left that drealfvl
place with nothing more serious that dislocated
corsets. The crazy girl who pursues Kyrle Bel-
lew with a six-chambered revolver next to her
palpitating bust, is named Coffin. Rather an
ominous name for little Kyrley '
The story of Mrs. GorJon-Baillie’s alleged
adventures is as strange as anything in romance.
If it is true, there surely was never before such a
wonderful washerwoman’s daughter. Whatever
and whoever she may be, Mrs. Gordon Baillic is a
remarkably handsome woman. One who lias met
her many times gives the following description of
tal ’ good-looking woman, of the type
which the woid elegant seems best to fit. Her
beauty struck me as the beaute du diable, the
eyes being rather sly when not full of any
other expression which circumstances might
call into them at the moment.' A graceful
figure, clacl in a .superbly handsome dress
worthy of Worth at his best, and an undu-
latmg grace of movement that might well be con-
sidered fascinating by the susceptible sax—by
whica Ido not mean my own. I confess that T
envied her her dress, a lovely black silk with an
exquisite arabesque design in front from waist to
teet but her hands were large and thick—one
would have considered them clumsy if the face
and figure had not taken off one’s attention. A
rather large mouth, and a rather earnest expres-
s'? 11 also strike me as among my recollections of
Mrs. brordon-Baillie, who I can v r ell believe
is a remarkable woman, whether the allega-
a o a inst her are true or the reverse.
.Her feet were also rather large, so perhaps there
is something in the washerwoman story after all
—not that a woman need be the worse for that
only washerwomen’s daughters are not often clad
as gorgeously as Mrs. Gordon-Baillie wa ; as T re-
member her. Her handwriting was bold and
masculine, but without that indescribable son.*-
thing which we cal] style. lam glad to ses that,
at all events, some of her charities were genuine,
and I would willingly believe that although her
career may have Been romantic, she is by no
means so black as those allegations paint her.


Study your own interest by using Pennell's SNOWAViniE.
Patent .Roller Flour, It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery..
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
Pepper
And
Salt
One Sunday last month an old lady in low
circumstances endeavoured to worship the Lord
in St. Mary's R..C. Cathedral, Sydney, and was
biffed out by the descendants of St. Peter. Being
in an obfuscated state of sin she endeavoured to
adore the penniless Carpenter's Son from one of
the cushioned seats which are reserved for the
golden dustmen of the earth, and she positively-
declined to move when ordered to knock and it
should be opened unto her in one of the cheap
wooden pews at the back of the establishment.
Much powerful exhortation followed from the ap-
prentice-bishop in charge, but the searcher after
Terewth concluded that she would seek regenera-
tion by faith where she was ; and then the Clmrcli
got riled and resolved that it would see her
darned before she should regenerate among the
swell brethren, and she was carried forth from
the sanctuary. She hung on to bits of the taber-
nacle as she went, but after much vicious hauling
the toilers in the vineyard got her out in her state
of original sin, and the spirit having thus prevailed
over the flesh she was heaved out of the presence
of the Lord. I t was generally concluded that her
conduct in jumping a front seat among the followers
of Him who was poor in Palestine was highly
reprehensible, and notice is hereby given that when
a lady in broken boots wants to find the track to
heaven she should do it without intruding her
presence on the saints who wear jewellery and are
able to put on a fresh shirt twice a day. Of such
is the Kingdom of Heaven, Amen.
•
Bismarck, on his 73rd birthday, received
greetings from “2000 distinguished personages,
besides many thousands from other people.”
Please observe that the difference between people
and personages is distinguished :
The difference ’twixt Him and He
You can from this assertion gauge;
for one’s a “ person,” dontyersee
(No cut above plain you or me),
Until he’s made K.C.M.C,,
And then he is a “ personage.”
Blunt radicals, with muttered. D.,
May at this Strange conversion rage ;
But facts are facts, as all,agree—
A “ person ” must distinguished be
Who gets the affix a.g'.e.,
And then he is a “ personage.”
Senior-Constable B (we will be
partially merciful), of Melbourne, has sad reason
to bemoan the i roily of Fate. Dressed in the
jumper and helmet of authority B can run
In, for “insulting behaviour ” the first boy who
sneezes at him. While on duty he makes mad
the guilty and appals the free with a word —a
gesture—a glance. But, off duty, poor B
can’t strike terror even to the,, gentle soul of Mrs.
B. The other Sunday, for instance, his wife
threw the joint into the tire, slung a roast chicken
at his head, sent a knife in the same direc-
tion, and then threatened to “stab him
to the heart ” with a carving fork.
Against this particular form of insulting-
behaviour the wretched senior-constable can
do no more than meekly protest to a magis-
trate, like the very meanest among his subjects.
So great, and yet so little—it is a cruel situation
for B —. On the one hand, strong men trem-
bling at his frown ; on the other, a scornful female
thumping him with a fowl. And lie has made all
his property over to her, by the way. Don't let
us bo too severe on police arrogance. Many a
constable who takes it out of an inoffensive
citizen with his truncheon is smarting under a
deep sense of domestic wrong. The missus, per-
chance, has just been stirring Up his angry pas-
sions with a carving fork.
* * •
All the great circus of cranks is now con-
verging upon Sydney with a view to collecting
Minister Abigail’s official £25,000 reward for the
extinction of the “rabit.” Abigail himself is
snowed-up with letters from people who enclose a
new patent club for dashing the animal’s brains
out, and want a cheque payable to bearer by re-
turn, and when he comes to the surface to breathe
lie is met by gentlemen with contrivances for
stinking tile rodent out, or for luring it away so
far from home that it can’t get back again, or for
s suing it to death, or otherwise discouraging it.
Among the crowd of people who have shoved
Abigail up into a corner, and then talked him into
premature old age, is an exciting specialist named
Taylor, who carries with him a bloodthirsty dust
which remorselessly slays any rodent that chances
to sit down on it. The process is said to be re-
liable arid awful in its .suddenness. At ono
moment the rabbit is bounding joyously over the
works of Nature ; then he stops for one second of
hideous anticipation, and the powder rises up like
a thief in the night and welts him with paralysing
force over the brains. The preparation also lays
waste the cat of every-day life, and
seduces the kangaroo to his latter end.
Furthermore, if a few grains of the compound
are inserted in the animal by persuasion, or false
pretences or a pile-driver, it petrifies the unhappy
zoological specimen and turns it into a stony sub-
stance which can be used for building houses or
museums or fortifications, and which can also be
turned into cannon-balls or else filled with dyna-
mite and sewn up and then placed under a heredi-
tary throne with a view to discharging a monarch
into the air. The inventor carries about with him
a number of dried and stiffened wallabies which
have succumbed to the preparation, and he
dumped these down on the table in the Mines
Office, while Abigail backed off into a corner, and
invited the attention of the Government to- their
condition. Francis ultimately got rid of him by
suggesting that lie should call again with some
samples of dead pussies, and Mr. Taylor is now
skirmishing after the back-yard cat with a view
to leading that household pet to its doom.
* • •
We start with a joyous snort to tell the
tale of the Chow that was left —the Mongol who
was cut off in the flower of his prosperity, and
whose sorrows were strewn like autumn leaves
upon the stream of life. At Wellington (N.Z.),
John Smith, journalist and greengrocer, wages
deadly war against the Chinkie host and camps
CANDID GRATITUDE.
SMITH (proprietor of the rickety umbrella) : “GOOD BYE PYNXE, OLD FELLOW, I
WOULD LEND YOU THIS GAMT, BUT TON MY SOUL IT BELONGS TO
MY SISTER.”
PYNE: “NEVER MIND, OLD MAN, I AM WET ENOUGH ALREADY.”
daily on their trail hungering after scalps. He is
a patriotic and ambidextrous citizen, and when
he is not vending the wholesome carrot he is edit-
ing the Anti -Chinamax, a paper whose mission is
to haul thc j Asiatic into the dust ancl make the
leper even as the worm of the earth. Naturally
enough, therefore, the heathen view him as a
loathsome excrescence upon the face of nature,
and having put their tails together in solemn con-
clave they resolved that Smith should be ker-
rushed—“hung-ye-hookee,” we believe, is the
Chinese name for it. Then an astute
heathen, whose intellect was so deep that
he could saw up a tubular- brass bed-
stead and sell it for telescopes to the leading
astronomers of Europe, rose and explained how
the oppressor was to be exterminated, and when
he closed his remarks there was a sound of
Chinese applause in that back lane, and the cheers
of the heathen rang through the adjacent pur-
lieus. Next day, at the fruit and vegetable auc-
tions, the Chows ran up the prices against Smith
till he reluctantly withdrew from the contest, and
the same thing happened the day after, and
the day which ensued after that again, and.
each day the Asiatics looked cheerfully into
Smith's empty shop and hoorayed in their own
silent hieroglyphics at the approaching ruin of the
white enemy. All through that week and the
next they came round and gloated outside the dis-
mantled emporium, and asked Smith how lie was
. getting on, and how he “ eutehee him licee," but
still the European ntm only stood and smiled
deep, dark, fathomless smiles in his deserted
premises, and at the end of a month the Chows
began to suffer from optical illusions and phantas-
magoria through buying vegetables for three
times as much as they were worth, while
their hated foe moved in a mysterious
way to make money and seemed to
be living very satisfactorily on nothing
in particular. Three times a day he incurred
the risk of horned cattle while running
to put his money in the bank, and yet every
morning he made frantic efforts to buy bananas
and cabbages at auction, only to go away with a
melancholy aspect when he saw them knocked
down at a stupendous figure to a yellow “ slindy-
kit.” And all this time one or two white men
who were in the secret thought it rather a lark
that Smith should viciously incite the ignorant
sons of Confucius to pay such a tremendous figure
for his own vegetables, and that he should be so
aggravated when he couldn’t get them himself at
a ]nice which would utterly ruin any horse that
tried to live on them, but they concluded that it
wasn’t any concern of theirs, and let things slide.
Finally, however, the “slindykit” burst through
trading-in “ tulnips ”at a heavy loss, and .just then
they accidentally learned that Smith had been doing
a large wholesale trade in the market, and that they
had been trying to wreck him through buying
moist, malarious vegetables from his agent at an
appalling cost. Then there was another meeting,
but this time the chairman was damp with tears,
and the astute Chow whose towering intellect had
put up this great unwholesome game snuffled in an
undertone. A resolution was passed that. Smith
was the devil, and the company went into liquida-
tion and opium.
Once again the pietists of Geelong have
assembled and met together to solemnly curse
Sunday steamboat excursions to their one-horse
village. Some few years ago Messrs. Huddart
Parker tried to introduce the thin end of the
wedge of wickedness, but local influence frustrated
the firm’s business enterprise. The present in-
vaders have no stake in Geelong, and don’t care
a brass halfpenny for the natives’ immortal souls,
so the parsons are about to seek Duncan Gillies in
prayer, and ask him for a protection order against
the sons of Belial. If Duncan can do nothing, the
Loard’s anointed will put on the breastplates of
righteousness, and muster on the wharf to pre-
vent excursionists from landing. Ne’er a sinner
will get ashore while there is one family Bible left
to hurl at him. To preserve Geelong in its
dreary purity is a matter of supreme moment to
local Gospel-dealers. .The whole trade of the
place is in the hands of a little hallelujah ring,
who say their prayers and file their shovels with
pious regularity. And if the heathen get
a footing in Geelong they will sweep away the
cobwebs of cant, cut down prices, make the theatre
hum as it did in former times, spoil collections,
and knock all the stuffing out of the blessed
terewth. But if they can be kept away on the
Sabbath, then is Geelong safe. No stranger goes
there bu week days except to die.
WHY MOVE THE POET’S BONES?
Mr. Daniel O’Connor, M.P., and others
are still engaged collecting subscriptions for the
purpose of placing over the remains of Daniel
Henry Deniehy a monument which shall show
how much they think of him now he is dead :
Why move the poet’s bones ? Doth he unquiet
rest,
Where he by loving hands was laid ?
Hath ever mortal been complainingly addressed
By Deniehy’s sad wand'ring shade ?
Great Shakespeare, lying in that state which
boastful stones
On lesser men can ne’er bestow,
Invoked a curse upon the man who moved his
bones,
From sound of placid Avon’s flow.
Dear to the poet’s heart the rest oft vainly sought
In life’s long pitiful fever here,
And death, which hath to others terror in the
thought,
For Deniehy had scarce a fear.
Why move the pdet’s bones ? For Deniehy sleeps
well,
Though rude the stone that’s o’er him laid.
The page his mind inspired, the dead man’s frame
snail tell,
And not a monument, man-made.
Oh, then, may public scorn the impious hands
restrain
Of would-be patrons of the dead,
And still may Deniehy in peaceful sleep remain
In his obscure and lonely bed.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sunday, April 22, will be Plpl. May’s
twenty-fourth birthday.
Archibald Meston is- still at Cairns, N, Q.,
writing verses and slaying crocodiles.
Mrs. Arthur Staxinard has presented the
world with twins. She is the author of “ Booties
Baby.’
Speaker Davies is to be knighted. Be
food (and rich) and you will be honoured in
lingland.
By way of cutting a grim joke, Fate or-
dained that Bismarck should be born on All
Fools’ Day.
Dr. Rose, M.L.A., of divorce celebrity, is
son of a Collingwood milkman. Bread and milk
go Well together.
Bismarck is a great eater. “If yoll Want
a good working Chancellor,” he says, “you must
feed me properly.”
Phil. Robinsbn, the war-correspondent,
has engaged to write a book oh Australasia for
Sampson, Low, and Co-.
A brother of the famous Comedian, J. L.
Toole, was, until Very recently, a newsvendor- 1 ®
and a successful one—ill Sydney.
“If the deil only had his ttins, Mhdgteb
wad be nain the warse,” said Jack Sutherland.
This is pretty rough on Ah John.
The new name for the Duke of Edinburgh
is Nerokin —the little Nero, because he is more
renowned for fiddling than for anythiug else.
Cardinal Moran lias left for Rome, on a
visit to the Pope, with whom he is on particularly
good terms. The next Pope may be an Irishman.
Henry of Battenberg having been thrown
twice, Queen Victoria has forbidden him to hunt
any more. She says she didn’t buy him for a
hunter.
The Bennetts’ paper still persists in spell-
ing Ananias with three “ n’s ”■—“ Annanias.” We
don’t see why Ananias should have any more
“n’s” in it than Bennett.
Is Postmaster-General Roberts, C.M.G.,
getting democratic ? The name of the Market-
street pub. has been changed from Crown and
Anchor to Roberts’ Hotel.
Justice Williams, of Victoria, says the
screws of bank-clerks ought to be raised. These
mashers are becoming an intolerable burden on
the State —at Pentridge Prison.
At a watering station on one of the West
Australian railway lines one of the most brilliant
cavalry officers of his day holds a very small billet,
with a very small screw attached.
David Syine, of the Melbourne Age, has
a mighty horror of being interviewed by women.
St. Senanus or St. Kevin couldn’t hold a candle to
David in fighting shy of the eloquent sex.
Melbourne D. T. says that ‘ ‘ there never
was a Prince more happily wedded ” than
“Tummy.” This may be all very well as far as
he is concerned, but how about the Princess ?
Cardinal Newman is an admirable violinist.
When a Protestant clergyman challenged him to
a public discussion of faith, Newman declined,
but offered to play him on the fiddle if he liked.
Money Miller was a financier to the last.
Worth millions, he had a colossal overdraft when
death closed his account. The Bank directors
are not in the least nervous about that overdraft.
Prince Bismarck’s income from one source
and another is believed to average about £25,000 a
year, out of which his savings are very consider-
able. His sawmills and distdleries yield a large
return.
Perkins will not hold a portfolio in any
Ministry M‘llwraith may form. Perkins’outrage-
ous attacks all round have utterly alienated every
friend. His health is giving way under the sever®
strain he is putting upon it.
The late Mr. Blake (who visited Australia
a few years ago), erstwhile parliamentary repre-
sentative in the Commons for Waterford, has left
several legacies under his will to his old colleagues.
Mr. Parnell thus receives £5OO.
A Gilbert and Sullivan birthday-book has
been published in London, with this quotation at
the date of Queen Victoria’s nativity, May 24th s
“For I’m not so old, and I’m not so plain, and
I’m quite prepared to marry again.”
The N.S.W. Commissioner to the Mel-
bourne Exhibition, Mr. R. Burdett Smith, used the
first personal pronoun singular 42 times in a single-
page progress report lately issued. Just imagine
Premier Parkes reading aloltd that page of
“Hi’s!”
Mr. Smeaton, for some time editor of the
Gfoulburn (N.S.W.) Argus, has turned his back
on the devil —he has become a Presbyterian clergy
man. This looks like a roundabout way of quali-
fying for a billet on the editorial staff of the S.M
Herald.
The Argonaut courteously calls young
Earl Cairns “one of the star blackguards of the
British peerage. ” And yet poor Gumboil seemed
a very meek and harmless person when in Austra-
lia. He had too weak a cbm to be capable of any-
thing really startling or original.
The King of Greece sews buttons on his
shirts. This is quoted as an instance of royal
humility, but we don't see anything remarkable
about it. There are plenty of men panting to sew
shirts to their buttons if they could only raise the
stuff. Lucky dog, His Majesty !
The Duke of Newcastle is only five feet
high, wears a cork leg, limps badly when he
walks, and is altogether very unprepossessing in
appearance. But he has an income of £200,000,
owns the famous blue diamond, which is worth
£30,000, and is considered a great “catch” in
society.
The butter of that professional butter-
nierchant, Lord Tennyson, is said to be the finest
in'England. “His cows,” says the Court Jour-
nal, “ are all milked very early in the morning,
immediately after partaking of the rimey grass.”
“ Rimey grass ” is good, but they probably meant
“ rhymey.”
The Rev. Dr. Hay said, at the late meet-
ing of the Presbyterian Federal Assembly in Mel-
bourne, that “ Another ten years would probably
see the last of the blacks in Southern and Central
Queensland.” By that time the Revised Version
will probably be translated into their different
languages.
“It is true,” says Salmon’s Printing
Trades Circular, “that the publisher bought
the MS. of ‘ Called Back ’ off the late Mr. Fargus
for £80; but it should also' be known that from


Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that remell’s Snow-white Koi/Lhk Flour is the
best in the market
first to last Mr. Arrowsmith paid little short o
£2500 to the lamented author or his representa
tives. on account of it.”
The members of the" Victorian “ foorce
have subscribed money to erect a monument on
the grave of the late J. .!. Madden, member fo
Belfast, who worked tooth and nail to get them
leave to vote at parliamentary elections. It ha
bee's suggested that the monument should tak
the form of a stone jug.
Quite a number of N.S.W. pressmen hai
from N.Z. Charles Garland learned the drapery
business in Auckland. J. M. Perrier, “Little’
Utting, and Gus. Vialoux were all, at different
times, on Auckland newspapers, and Editor
Ward, of the D.T., trailed a musket with the Is
Waikato Regiment in the Maori War.
Mrs. Langtry, we read in a reliable
American paper, is not the sensation she was
She has stained her hair a muddy sort of red, bei
complexion has almost gone, and site rouges
clumsily. lake most Englishwomen of large
frame, she is becoming bony and angular, now that
she has passed beyond her thirtieth year.
“Oscar Wilde,” says Marion Crawford,
“ came into my study one day and sat down at a
table, leaning his head heavily upon his hand.’
Here Crawford dropped into Wilde’s position.
“And he said, ‘Ah, Crawford, Crawford, lam
feeling very sad to-night. One half the world
does not believe in God, and the other half does
not believe in me.’ ”
Miss Mary Anderson (says a London
paper) has succumbed at last. The happy man is
said to O' Mr. Brinkworth, who is something in
London City. After her season at the Lyceum
is over, Miss Anderson returns to America pre-
vious to the wedding, the date of which is not yet
fixed. At present she is living very quietly at
Hampstead with her mother.
Hon. C. J. Pharazyn legislates in the
Council for the loan New Zealander. He is a
sort of cross between an emu and an undertaker,
and he wears specs. Wherefore one day having
lost said specs., to save expense of advertising
he marched up and down the streets of Welling-
ton with a placard hung on his back, “ Lost, a pair
of gold spectacles.—Apply in front.”
Anna Kingsford, M.D., is dead—of con-
sumption. She it was who, in the Lady’s I’ic-
TOiu.vt., used to tell the women to wash their faces
in lait virginal and emulsion of cucumber. Reading
lie}’ long-drawn pages of advice to the sex caused
us to mistrust woman doctors. It forced us to
the conclusion that no man would be safe in
marrying unless lie owned a chemist’s shop.
r Pastor Tommy Spurgeon, of Auckland,
N.Z. (son of old preacher Spurgeon), is engaged
to be married to a Dunedin lady, and, as it is an-
nounced that he is about to visit Otago, the re-
ligious public of N.Z. is exercising itself as to
whether the trip has anything to do with “ The
Deadly Cobra of Modern Thought,” or whether
the youthful Boanerges is merely off to see ins gal.
How unequal is Fortune in the distribu-
tion of her favours ! Eighteen years ago Sully and
Warded was the name of a firm of mining-agents
in a N.Z. town. Walter Sully, the senior of that
partnership, is now one of the largest holders in
Broken Hill, while Frank Warded, the junior,
died recently in Auckland, in absolute penury,
and his wife, who married again, is (without
going into details) in much trouble.
“ Fancy ! When Mr. Gladstone was here,
he went in—poor man !- to take a cup of coffee at
• laccosa’s ; and an Englishman went up and shook
his fists in his face, and said, ‘You villain! how
dare you show yourself here ? ’ ’’—Extract from a
private letter from Florence. The writer naively
adds, “ This was very bad taste, and going a little
too far. The writer is a woman and the daughter
of a considerable Irish landlord.
The N.Z. Premier has developed, into
K.C.M.G., but he is already “ full up” of th
“honour,” as the messengers about the publi
offices persist in calling him Sir ’Arry. Audacit
and love of office are the key-notes of Atkinson'
character. ' It has been written of him, as of som
one else, that he would, with equal confidence
take command of the Channel fleet and perforn
the operation of lithotomy.
Tiger Inglis, the N.S.W. Minister o
Education, in replying to a cruelty-to-animal
deputation in Sydney the other day,' said“
have noticed with pleasure the efforts made h
trying to foster a spirit of tenderness and mere’
in the hearts of our young towards our duml
brethren in the lower order of life “ Our duml
brethren,” &c., is good, for it includes goats and
mules, and sounds like Parkes talking about his
c>l leagues.
Rather a curious libel is shortly to come
off before the Court of Queen’s Bench, brought by
a solicitor against the editor of St. Stephen’s Re-
view. The libel consisted in the solicitor having
been accused of dropping his h’s. This points to
a capital chance for supplementing the Parkes’
Distress .Fund. By the way, what has become
of that much wlupped-up testimonial? Are
they leaving it in the bank until the interest raises
it to the long-promised £lO,OOO ?
When Bishop Potter heard of Mrs. Brown
Potter’s intention of adopting the stage as a pro-
fession, he called and remonstrated with her on
the subject. He found her obdurate and deter-
mined. “At least,” said the distinguished divine,
“ adopt a stage pseudonym, and do not drag the
name of Potter before the footlights.” The only
American rival of the divine Sarah drew herself
up proudly. “What,” she replied, “renounce
the name that I have made famous ? ” The bishop
retired in good order.
The present Crown Prince of Germany
attributes his withered arm, and his ear abscesses,
to a taint in the Guelph blood of his mother—the
Queen’s eldest daughter—and views her with
growing dislike. As bearing on this, we must re-
member that Bismarck always strongly opposed
any alliance between the royal families of Prussia
and England. He maintained that the latter is
scrofulous right away through. Consequently,
Bismarck and the new Empress of Germany don’t
exchange compliments except before company.
A late cable from Germany states that fresh
swellings have appeared in the throat of the
Emperor, who is now much troubled with a
cough. This looks very like laryngitis, and por-
tends evil. It looks improbable that Frederick will
lx; crowned in -Inly. Another cablegram says that
the Emperor will die within six weeks. Bismarck
will probably live more than six weeks, and if he
does then Battenberg will have to go and look
after his “ morganatic ” wife and her numerous
children instead of making love to an Imperial
Princess.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Standing order of the N.S.W. Parliament
—Dis-order.
Hint to the N.S.W. Ministry—Honesty is
the best policy.
Iho \Yandering Jew- The Honourable
Francis Abigail.
The S.M. Herald 'editor says lie keens
the Irish question at arms’ length. He means at
■cars’ length.
lvobeits, C.M.G., calls Treasurer Burns
“the ablest financier in N.S.W.” What! Abler
than Parkes or Uncle Abigail?
A very heavy syndicate-job is in the oven
Imposed leasing to a private company of
theiN.SmY. Government tramways.
Mudgee Haynes says the A.N.A. has a
mark of membership -a birth-mark. That’s'
what s the matter with John himself.
Mr. Jack Want, M.L. A., says he is not a
Protectionist, but believes in encouraainfi' native
industry. Mr. Want is a clever lawyer.
A BAD TIME.
JA CK RABBIT "LOOK A-HERE JOHN. WITH OLD PASTEUR'S IN
TOWN, AND THIS ANTI-CHINESE EXCITEMENT ON, I THINK YOU AND
I HAD BETTER LIE LOW THIS WINTER, EH?"
Of 844 v arrests made iu Edinburgh during
the year 1887, only 24 of the culprits had received
a good education. Education often refines.
Bismarck, it is cabled, is bent on resign-?
jng. He hates mothers-indaw. Queen Victoria
is m Berlin working the oracle for Alex. Batten-
berg.
This gentle snub is from an Adelaide
paper “ Our Government’s action towards the
Barrier is in striking contrast to the apathy of
Australia. ’ ”
T Premier Parkes can do nothing for tire
N.S.W. liquor-prohibitionists without consulting
his colleagues. He-will doubtless ask the opinion
of Roberts—and Garrett.
There are a million superfluous women in
England as far as the market is concerned. The
proportion of unmarried men has increased 20
per cent, during the past five years.
The "Victorian tobacco-industry is being-
strangled by the excise-tax. They tax every form
of industry and enterprise, but call it “robbery”
to tax the unearned increment. What humorists !
The Queensland Labour party has a good
chance of three seats, and, had the formation of
the party taken place early, three other seats in
the West would have returned Labour candi-
dates.
Mr. Purves, Q.C., in his address to the
Australian natives, _at . Sydney Town-hall, got*
somewhat mixed up in his metaphor : he promised
to “ broadly and pointedly ” illustrate the objects
of the association.
<( An English print says the Chinese
thought little of the Amman earthquake, which
killed 2000 people. Such things only diminish
,the redundant population.” That’s it—Australia
o" the earthquake !
“A bold peasantry, its country’s pride,
when once destroyed can never bo supplied.” Two
thousand Irish emigrants embarked at Liverpool
on March 11th—to go and .curse English land-
lerdlism beyond the sea.
One hundred and fifty-three members of
the Commons voted for Labouchere’s motion
against the proposed vote of £5,658 in respect of
orders of knighthood, medals, <&c., in connec-
tion with the Jubilee celebrations.
The Novok Vremya, in a recent issue,
prints among its foreign correspondence a long-
article expressing surprise at the harshness of the
Australian penal code. Great must be the civilisa-
tion which can be rebuked by Russia !
Parnell has followed Justin McCarthy,
and given the lie direct to Carnarvon’s denial, in
Australia, of his agreement to Home Rule.
Parnell g-oes further, and says Carnarvon saw that
Ireland would require Protection as well.
Parkes stated recently at Wagga that
“for the last thousand years every country in the
world had tried Protection and had found it a
failure.” As only one or two have ever tried
Preetrade, what an appalling failure this world
must be !
Griffith has admitted in private that he is
sorry now he ever took up the Naval Defence
project as a Government platform plank. He
won Id n t have done it, he says, had he known
it would provoke such popular opposition. Isn’t
that Psalmyell the Pure all over?
The S.M. Herald having taken to calling
the Gladstonian Liberals “ Separatists ”(a London
Times expression), the Melbourne, Brisbane, and
Adelaide stupid papers have followed suit. But
the Herald hasn’t the pluck to directly attack
the Irish and their friends here, because of their
ads.
Says the Burrangong A.lines (N,S»\V.) :
“ What a blessing it would be to pick up a H.M.
Herald and read the obituary notices of Sir
Henry Parkes, Sir John Robertson, and a few
more Parliamentary, curses ! We don’t want any
of these tricksters, deceivers, but a new lot.” “ A
new lot ” is excellent.
Mr. Purves, Q.C.y president of the Aus-
tralia Natives’ Association, is going to try and get
into Parliament, again at next election. His first
and only constituency, when he was in politics,
was Mornington. When a general election came
round he didn't stand again. Afterwards he tried
to represent Footscray, but failed.
If you get your living by selling tracts and
sich, and travel politically on the religious game,
it distresses you deeply when a brutal person
stands up at an election meeting and says you
never let your servants out on Sunday night be-
cause you are so fleshly that you will have late
dinner, even on the blessed Sawbath.
Says the S. M. Herald scribe :—-“If the
unemployed are to become an institution in the
colony let us recognise the fact, and pass some
kind of Poor-Law to deal with them.” That's the
way to size up the result of the Her ald’s Foreign -
Trade gospel. The Herald Office looks as if the
architect had designed it for a poorhouse.
The English taxpayers, in order to hold
Ireland, spend yearly for soldiers and military
police £4,480,000. In the eighty-seven rears
which have elapsed since the Force-and-Fraud
l. nion, the working- classes have thus contributed
£350,000,000 for an army in Ireland to support the
rack-renters in their exactions. — Reynolds.
. John Cox Bray, of S.A., is to be the new
Speaker of the Legislative Assembly. J. C. B.
is a slight, perky little personage, a lucky politi-
cian and a keen lawyer. His father emigrated to
S.A. in the early days and for many years kept a
boot shop in Hindlcy-street. J. G. B. deserves well
of his country—he has been plucky enough to
refuse a K.C.M.G. -ship.
Premier Parkes boasts that N.S.W, now
has 7000 more people than any other Australian
however £tTC i '?ffl), forgetS *» ™»*-.
i,„„> „„’ ~ ■ nat ’ about 7000 have swags on their
work ’ whLf'H tiampUlg the countr .y in search of
lono ’a W ST are not at all likely to find a*
British shoddy?i^.‘ 1S rU “ “ the ‘ interest of the
u&y D -T. says the Victorian Fanners’
i)reslf/ent o of Th 6 eiamo . u ™ l g for Freetrade. The
president ot the association says-:
kni* fiart of to
on a similar footin'- to that'of "to* ' f to l p,kce f'? e
ii-hich have alrea.fv obtahfed notectionS" “ d *"“*
Wll l -Editor Ward explain?
A popular Paris pamphlet gives -a fore
this year Vei Th ? to v hap f ll { ™ m Mv to October of
•<m Ar id,. I ' WU ' 1 ' Ul r "'?»*« England, and
include tl el • »* London. Said Articles
possession of Carington, Loch & Co. ~
t,.,i; he - Vict T rian freights, like all other Aus-
trian freights, are too high. Any why ’ Be
nW but fw'ti ha? t° P d y "T un] y for the car-
tlw lines Ti o '"crest on the construction of
lidn 'l, - -1 tl f? knd > " hich has risen pro-
fines and'lefll ' t l Wlgh the construction of the
S’of fhd tIV P*F only for the car-
ftoslioul produce, and then they’ll have a
Extract from banquet speech by a Vic-
torian Munster of the Crown* “Til resent
iol'tllaTn H T lim t 0 the proud satisia'l
accuse, nf ,l,v le i° f ,ts memljers Pas ever been
accused of political corruption.” Tf he had been
have added “ a* yet/’
rrlid tW 1 a ] ? Ve]y pass " hen ministers are.
Brt tU “ Si*? " em I,sen
Tims talks a socialist of “society ” and of
Insown class. The speaker is John Burns:
want uwb t 17°!’,’ ■ to , tlu ' Bin 1i..-ton .Arcade ;if (.
i>„ J »’ A i inting'-house-square, the 'Sattp.dw
foe ’ “
Hie French elections fall more and mo
•f or i lO • , '°"; ( ' l ' of t} >e F*treme Reds ; Social
into m f f ’ Communist after Communist, st
st t*?\r h Z r ? f Floquet is t
hist avowedly Socialistic Premier, and Loekro
ius Lducat,°n -Minister and a son-in-law of Viet
-reetp’dpt 8 ? f. kS^ ialist ' . The Marseilles peep
with* , d ),!,r fif 9 0nm ™b their member-elec
" th a bur-st of their own Marseillaise.
I arkes denies that lie ever was a Prote
S forgets the day who
rPil f Assembly that “the who
doctrine of Jreetrade was at least a theory,
rested upon an assumption .; its reasonings we
f 1 ot a .reductive nature. There was tin
i’ f t - ie ollt and-out Prote
tiomsts that tlidjr doctrine, to a great exton
depended upon the actual rise of nations.”
The N.,S.W. public school foes hav
SrrSin“ t'l.‘!,2(>S in the first quarter ,
!«• 7, to i10, w 04 m the first quarter of 1888. Th
means that in Ereetrade N.S.W. either ‘>l 00
children who ought to attend school are receivin
iJf® mvm o to the inability of tliei
paients to raise a weekly 3d., or else that 21,00
11101 e children have found their place on th
papper roll of the Education Department for th
same reason.
The invitation cards for the N.S W Cen
teimial banquet were paid for by Premier Parkes
violently retrenching Government at the rate o
“*• a or about £2300 the lot ! Thos
sent to .South Australia, however, never readme
then destination. They were such marvels of ex
pensive stupidity that the Custom Hons
authorities seized upon them as dutiable works o
art, and deposited them in a corner of a damn sh«
tor consideration.
the Irish paper l nionists, says Reynolds
JNkwspai-ki; have been showing''themselves ii
their true colours. The other day in Belfast then
was a funeral, file dead person happened to be
long to the religion of three-fourths of the people
of Ireland -the ancient religiqfi of both Englanc
and Ireland Roman Catholicism. The Oraiwe
men turned out, stoned the hearse, swore at tin
priests, and upset the whole funeral procession
iNext day they pelted a Roman Catholic clergy
man with mud through the streets of Belfast: and
those are the persons for whom we are to deny
ocalself-governmen ttotlieoverwhelming majority
of the people of Ireland ! J J
Mi. Dailey has stated, in writing, and be-
yond the possibility of shuffling out, that he does
not at all sympathise with the idea of “ Australia
tor the Australians,” because, forsooth, it will in-
terfere with the prosperity of the country. It is
easy to see that Mr. Dailey considers “ the coun-
try to be merely the band of foreign and foreign-
feeling profit-mongers who regard the people as a
mere gold and silver mine. Australia for whom
Urn cry ot “Australia for the Australians” is
strictly synonymous with that of “Australians
for themselves. The only inference to be drawn
is that Mr. Dailey means “Australia for the Eng-
lish and “Australians for the English.”
A t I ralee (Ireland) the other day two
young farmers were tried for smiling violently at
Sergeant Clarke,: a riprisintative of the law, and
thereby endangering the peace of the country.
Ihe sergeant deposed that the prisoners “booed ”
at him as an aggravation of the original offence,
and a full and complete constable who backed him
U P> saic | the' sound was something between a boo
and a laugh. Two respectable witnesses swore,
on the other hand, that the accused only laughed
in a general sort of way, and that it was doubtful.
it their mirth arose from the sergeant or from
some other cause. Ultimately the two citizens
were taken to the county gaol for a month with a
view to teaching them that a policeman was not
a. thing - to be amused at, and a large force of con-
stables escorted them to their destination, for fear
they might break loose.
According to common report, says a
London paper, the Mr. Sievier (bookmaker Sutton
ot Melbourne), w hose presentation at a levee last
year was cancelled on February 18th, has had an
adventurous career. Originally, he assisted his
mother in the management of a governesses’ agency *
he then emigrated to South Africa, where in-
served m the Cape Mounted Police. Returning,
he took to the dramatic profession, and performed
at the 1 neatre Royal, Dublin, in 1878-D. Next
betook to coursing, without much success, and iii
188+ wended his way to New South Wales. Here
he tried bookmaking under an assumed name
was privileged to meet “the Jubilee,” and re-
turned to England m 1887. Pigeon-shooting at
the Sporting and Dramatic Club, and election to
boodles, paved the way to his appearance at the
Court of St. James, the result of which is com-
mon history-, ,


r 7ctZy ,/Tea.cZsJ <Z)u/0 7ou.sct.yct cZyecds d'OS
<O/5/6 effe cZ froy Oc/essa " o/fae.///t'ytAcy .
Vy ctey c/i sou'sed 7/e
/I/O fyrtsfay s do cl 7/ feser Yocdo-d ey
Zc 7e-a vo jfvup7>-y dejy
'7 fesfar/y 5 £**? 7 iA /\ i ~7%
/as ft. >/?ee/, '' 7urn amuTttty y.oCel re-r 7 .. 3
/•;, /fatf/otffA. *?« ~
/y o charge. SZ
' I
.f T'J,,J S L . /TSTy r „ct~*<,*<i "r 7 ?'
4* f Zeyeny, »«. /cR
iZ'd
a,/( r,f<‘‘d~>% # *“>O eSI //C 7
dt «.«/
' ; a n e f.r «?'*-
hrofesi'O* -tS—Tyccr/S CL(Coy.<. r c yy, __ //**/•’
/ J 7/ rtenks 7/ccZ /SfUtZo/cc . £*.
oty /y f (d L O JOo V jkJ s*/fa A .
y
**” /“ r */ r * / >eAcJI ./ z>-4'^
fte stdeyAo/7s7e. J7a/z s :'/> r< .
_ ' ' Loye. ?~tQ > />Z ff> t (i/e.jft r£-'>
froy 7ft, Sctr/SZs/"
My n, / x
7 /Vo/,*. y*«f'L&'f 7 far far AtftJcor
<l,>rt-y l ,>rt -y fy*- y r «af- / 7&cc j L.rc 7r* oe. •<*. y« <■*.;•
Cartoonlets on Current Events.


The Kanga-liou, or Lion-garoo. — A Curious Animal Lately Discovered by Lord Carington.
“I consider that the position which I have the hono[?] to hold is not simply of an Imperialoffcial sent here to represent English ideas and English views in Australia. (Cheers.) I hold that my duty is a far grander one than that. I ccnsider it my
duty, as far as I can, to strengthen the cordial relations which exist between the mother country and tins fair land, and which are so precious to both. —Governor Garington at Sydney University Commemoration.


We must not be considered divergin'®. f>'om our marked
partiality in saying- we get our Glass anG China at Bray
Bros., 402 and'4o4 George-street, for we believe we are
amongst thousands who are well served the.''® " ith these
commodities; the varieties of sets for j'miner, Tea,
Dessert and Washstands is surprisingly large a nfl beauti-
ful. Have you seen the nodding jokers at tea ? A
FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
tne use of Clements’ Frecklebane.
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements’ 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.AV. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists.
Beware of worthless imitations.*
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the time
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soat, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested in their ravages on the flowers,’
J. B. Pacf/s and Co.’s Bangle Brand smoking Tobacco is
the most delicious smoke in the acknowledged hy
all connoisseurs to be the most d< a eate in flavour. Pre-
pared so that the combustion ivP el rp Bums out to the
last particle with pure white * r -V
Erated Items.
Twelve Months ago Melbourne sassiety
Smacked its lip's o'ver the spicy story of Dr. Rose
arid Mrs. Weeding, the giddy wife of £
Williamstown baker. A divorce corirt jury fount
that Dr. Rose, an ex-methodist preacher, hac
erred and strayed from the right way in corijunc
tion with his friend; yet the judge refused
decree nasti on the ground that the baker himsei
didn’t wear the white dower of a blameless life
During the hearing of that suit poor Mrs. Ros
jmraded her confidence in the ex-preacher by sit
ting next to Mrs. Weeding and soothing her inno
cent distress. It was a pathetic picture of mis
applied faith. But in July next there will be
another shuffle of the soiled cards, and Mrs. Rose
will, it is said, be prepared to swear that her
doctor is a cruel, cruel irian, arid that the baker’s
lawful wife is no better than she ought to be. A
jhiry decided this question in the affirmative li
Months ago; however, as Mr's. Rose has cohabitee
it'ith her hUsbarid since then, she must needs jfrerve
f'ecerit caiise and.reason for her suit. And if she
cannot, this unfortunate lady must remain as
satisfactorily nfarried as the baker must remain,
until death do him arid Mbs. W; part. SUch is
the divorce law which her Majesty’s Govern-
ment desires to’ preserve ini its integrity. Dr.
Rose, by the way, appears to’ lead a Jack-in-the-
box kind of .life, with a house in Melbourne, a
sanatorium at Box Hill, and a farm at Mitcham.
In her petition Mrs. Rose states that, when she
was at one place, the doctor and the other lady
bobbed up serenely somewhere else. Which re-
minds, us that the medical, ex-preaching legislator
is said to include mesmerism among his many ac-
complishments, and can put ladies to sleep when
they feel so disposed.
* * *
One of the things we see in the 8. M.
Herald when we come out without our gun ■
“Sir,—My attention was called to a letter on ‘ Hoarders’
Requirements’ in your columns, and having bought a
copy of the ‘ Year Hook of Australia,’ therein recom-
mended, I was horrified to find a relative’s private salary
given as well as that of other clergymen. If there bo any
valid excuse for this, why are not the salaries of all the
doctors and lawyers given, whose names appear in the
book ? Why confine such questionable information to the
clergy and Civil servants? I am, &c.,
“U. Archdam; Hall.”
We r sc to suggest to this horrified gentleman that
possibly the information is given for the protection
of the tradesmen who give credit to parsons and
sich. We offer this idea witli a certain amount of
hesitation, however, never having attempted to
collect any money from a parson, and we trust,
therefore, that the gentleman whose relative’s
private salary was so indecently exposed to the
carnal eye will not tear round and break things
when he reads it. For our own part, we object to
the system in toto. Few Australian citizens have
more salary than one man can look at comfort-
ably, and the idea of inviting the whole nation to
contemplate an annual income which is so small
that the owner can himself do air the contempla-
tion that is required, without sitting up at night
to overtake arrears, seems eminently absurd.
* * *
The perennial driveller continues to per-
vade the land. He raises up the temple of his
lumvash in the wilderness, and his slush is heard
in the desert afar off. Instance the following
little item on Art from a N.S.W. paper
“On another easel was a type of work singularly
original, from the brush of Mr. Arthur Collirigridge.
What do you think the subject is? No less a personage
than Lord Oarington’s French chef painted in black and
white, on the back of a real gold frying-pan ; such a
handsome face as he lias, resembling the Prince of Wales
when 10 years younger! ”
And this is Art! Two centuries ago the greatest
painters of the age were employed to illustrate
the soles of Louis XlV.’s boots with sketches
commemorative of his campaigns, and now, in
place of producing diagrams of a monarch on his
boots, we have an artist painting the portrait of a
monarch’s assistant’s cook on the bottom of a fry-
ing-pan. And on top of this a newspaper man
goes into raptures over the cook on the ground
that his face on the base of the kitchen utensil
reminds him of the pompous commonplace of
Tummy’s countenance as it appeared 10 years
ago on a kettle, probably. This subject wants
to be treated in verse, and tenders are hereby in-
vited for an “ Ode to a Cook on a Frying-pan.”
“ Lines inspired by seeing an Emperor on a ,Sar-
dine-tin ” will not be eligible for this competition.
All parties endeavouring to compound a hymn are
requested to write without undue levity on one
side of the paper only.
* * *
A Western Yankee print, in its criticisms
on a burlesque, said that “ the women didn’t wear
clothes enough to wad a gun.”
4 * *
Here is a sample from the works of the
latest Cambridge University poet
“ I think that I am drawing to an end,
For on a sudden came a gasp for breath,
* And stretching out of hands and blinded eyes,
' And a great darkness falling on my soul,
|Qh hallelujah ! Kindly pass the milk.”
* * •
A Salvation Army eapting in Auckland,
N.Z.. has just married the daughter of a deceased
timber magnate with £15,000 in her own right.
So that one may be a “Blood and Eire” warrior
.and yet keep a strict watch on the main chance.
* * •
A curious club case is about to be tried.
It, will be based on the question “Gan a member
of a club rob that club? May he not take what
he pleases of its property seeing he is one of the
proprietors ? ”
* • *
A curious wedding came off in A ictoria
the other day. An attorney who had been staying
in a country town while proceedings for divorce
in which lie was to be made a co-respondent were
being stopped by the interposition of friends,
became “sweet” on the servant in the liash-foundry
where he was staying, and arranged to marry her.
A male relation who was shepherding the lawyer
in his seclusion, heard of the projected union
with the housemaid and forthwith went to the
local registrar wdio was to be asked to do the deed
and told him that the bridegroom-elect was mad
as a hatter, and if he married him to the chamber-
maid after that intimation he was safe to get into
a blanky row. The registrar funked, and when
the bridal party of four came along in a cab lie
said he was somethinged or other if he d marry
that there lunatic. The lawyer, however, was not
to be baulked thus, so he went straightway to a
Methodist parson in the town and had the wedding
fixed up for a fiver, and now the young woman
who used to make the beds and fill the water-jugs
in the up-country boarding-house holds sway over
half-a-dozen slaveys in a mansion near Melbourne.
From London Figaro :
“ On January 30, as I learn by letter front Sydney
(Australia), the Centennial cantata, which was the ''hie/
feature of the Centennial celebration, was produced. The
words were by Mr. John Plummer and the music was by
Mr. Hugo Alpen. The cantata ”
And so on for half-a-column more wherein are
given copious slabs of such stuff as this :
“ In the gathering strength of a hundred years,
By the light of a future grand,
One tribute we bring, and triumphantly sing
The song of our beautiful land.”
Now, who wrote that letter? By the way, Mr.
John Plummer, we believe, claims to have
founded, or helped at the foundation of London
Flgaho. Alas for the Land of the Bounding Kan-
garoo ! What have we done that she should be
saddled with the driveilings and be afflicted by
the adamantine impudence of such “representa-
tive ” literary men as Douglas Brooke Wheelton
Hiladen (8.A.) and the writer of that letter to
FioaHo?
Out of the 2 f 1 fro N.S.W.- warriors who
went into eanfp this Faster, only 1,611 came under
the'heading' of “gunners arid privates”—so that
each conhrfande'f, of one kind and another, had
something less than thre'e full-privates to form a
square with.
Toll used to be collected on the Gundagai
(N.S.W.) bridge. One day a young swell rode
A CRUEL JIBE.
DICK TINTO (pathetically): “WHEN WILL YOU LOVE ME, DARLING? WHEN WILL YOU SMILE
UPON AN AMBITIOUS BUT STRUGGLING ARTIST?”
MISS FLIP (cheerfully): "WHY, JUST AS SOON AS YOU CAN PRODUCE SOMETHING TO HANG ON
THE LINE BESIDES ONE SHIRT.”
along, threw a coin on the ground and pulled up
for change. There was a woman in charge, and
she threw the change on the ground and retired
muttering something about “no gentleman.” The
fop looked round, slowly dismounted, picked up
the money, and rode very, very slowly away.
*
“ My dear Agatha, will you be rny wife?”
“Only if papa is agreeable,” replied the dutiful
girl; “I never do anything without papa’s con-
sent.” “But do you think it likely that your
father will give his consent?” “I should think so,
indeed; ma will see to that. ”
• • •
At the Indo-Colonial Exhibition the
N.S.W. Court was graced with a lovely statue of
Hebe, valued at fiO guineas, and round it were
piled up samples of wine in successive tiers until
the marble female occupied a perfect bower of
liquor. This exhibit did duty also at Adelaide,
and when the Adelaide show closed the Hun who
was on deck at the time sold Hebe for 20s. to get
rid of her. He succeeded in this endeavour, and
she hasn’t been seen since. It is rumoured that
the distracted female was bought by a politician.
Name ?
* * *
The attention lately devoted by the
“ Bumble Bees,” “Gushing Grasshoppers,” and
other lady-scribes to the art of fixing up “ rekerky”
sitting-room nic-nacs out of cast-off house-
hold materials induces us to here offer a fevv sug-
festions in the same line. A pair of Pa’s old
oots, touched up with gold paint, make very
pretty wall-ornaments. To add to the effect, put
patches of cotton wool on the legs to imitate
snow. An old pair of corsets, fastened round a
zinc bucket, and ornamented with creeping vines
and pretty designs in leaf, makes a very elegant
ornament to hang behind a bedroom door, for the
purpose of holding sewing and crotchet-work
materials. As an ornamental design for a front
hall, take a dozen tomato-tins and paint each one
a different colour. Tie a bow of pretty satin
ribbon of various shades about each tin, run a
clothes-line, covered with Berlin wool, through
the lot, and hang them on the wall close to the
ceiling. One can hardly imagine how sweetly
pretty the effect of this exquisite collection is,
especially if the tins are filled with broken red
bricks, and hung so as to allow them to rattle
when agitated by the wind. An old bustle topped
with a halo of gilt stars and covered with the
caricatures of public men clipped from the Down
and Gumtree Jernil makes a most lovely fire-
screen. Of course, this refers to the wire bustle
only, but the rag-and-sawdust-stuffed affair can
be ornamented with strips of coloured silk and
suspended from a parlor chandelier.
* * •
At Auckland, N.Z., a man bought six jam-
tarts, covered them with “Rough on Rats,” and
then coolly and steadily surrounded the lot.
Verdict— tarts, accelerated by arsenic.
* * * *
You will hardly believe this, but it is a sad,
sad fact, for all that—if any facts remain in this
world of villainy and Chinese furniture. There
is a parson in one of the suburbs of Melbourne,
who—we shudder and turn cold to say it —is so
given over to sporting in secret that—but this
must be a hideous calumny, still we tell
it as we heard it—he (pull yourselves together,
like men) actually bets on the results of his
collection-plate every Sunday! And calls it in
sporting-phrase “ The Parson’s Plate.”
#• ' *
A popular preacher orates re “Our Girls:”—
The buxom, bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked, full-breasted,
bouncing lass —who can darn a stocking, mend trousers,
make her own frock, command a regiment of pots and
kettles, feed the pigs, chop wood, milk cows, wrestle with
the boys, and be a lady withal in “ company,” is just the
sort of a girl for me, and for any worthy man to marry ;
but you, ye pining, moping, lolling, screwed-up, wasp
waisted, putty-faced, consumption-mortgaged, music-
murdering, novel-devouring daughters of fashion and idle-
ness—vou are no more fit for matrimony than a pullet is
to look after a family of fourteen chickens.
* • *
Cold world this for genius. Across the
seas from the mountainous Land of the Moa came
a youth to ‘ ‘ marvellous Melbourne ” with half-a-
hundredweight of poems and a change of paper-
collars in his trunk. Well, he—in fact he went to
an hotel and boarded. Even genius must eat —
sometimes. But whether the poems didn't capti-
vate the booksellers, or whether —but anyhow, he
pawned five sheets and was “lumbered ” for the
same. We had a dim hope at first that they were
sheets of manuscript—but no, they were legiti-
mate linen sheets belonging to the hotel. This
reminds us that a well-known literary man in
Melbourne actually did, upon one occasion, try to
raise money on one of his stories —half-written—
and found a man to lend it! But on the whole
linen sheets -or even calico-are better than
sheets of poetry with the public—who. are mostly
pawnbrokers.
* * *
A story, gruesome in. its ghastly waggish-
ness, comes from Milan. There has been ice and
snow in that city, too, and the pavements lia\e
been slippery, though Italiaii skies were above
them. And so —thus runs the tale—an amiable
bridegroom, who had just taken to himself a
second wife, wished to prevent his new partmr
from slipping down oubside the door of her dwel-
ling on the first day of wedded bliss ; and he took
the ashes of his former wife, who had been cre-
mated, and sprinkled them on the threshold for
her successor to tread on !
* * *
The blind man’s wife needfs no painting.
• • * «r
Civilisation marches on. A few days ago
the Kanakas on a South Queensland plantation
gave a banquet to the Kanakas on a neighbouring
plantation, At the spread ISO bottles of grog
were drunk —and so were the kanakas.
* * #
Silver ton (N.S.W.) society is considerably
agitated over the question of whether or not the
groom at a wedding should wear his trousers out
side or inside of his boots.
Newly-married ifo
to domestic : “ Did you
way there was no bread
for breakfast ?” Domes-
tic : “No mum, there
isn't a bit of bread in
the house.” Newly-
married wife : “ That's
too bad. ! suppose you'd
better make some toast.”
• •
“ Would I know his
mind ” - referring to
Shakespeare —is th e
motto of the Shakr-
speare Society in Mel-
bourne. If they did they
would probably cease to
take any further interest
in him. Imagine a com-
pany of ants with goggles
on speculating as to tin?
mechanism of the brain of
(say) David Blair ! And
even then you will ha ve
but a faint idea of the
humour of this motto.
* * #
M rro/ms of the pre-
sent N.S.W. mining
boom, we are reminded
of the big Thames (N.Z.)
mining boom of 1870 and
71, in which Melbourne
and Ballarat investors
were so largely interested.
The Caledonian mine,
was turning out 20,000
ounces of gold a week,
and had paid over half a
million in dividends,
when a mixed syndicate
of Victorians and Auck-
landers secured the ad-
joining ground, the Too-
key’s, out of which the
rich shoot was supposed
to run. When the
Caledonian drive was
within 50 feet of the
1 mundary, Took e\ V
shares stood at £4O, <_ n
the prospect of the reef
continuing. But it didn’t,
and the moment the
news reached the Auck-
land shareholders that
the lode had “pinched ''
out, three or four of the
smartest of them char-
tered the s.s. Coomerang
there was no cable in
those days—s 1 i p pe d
quietly over to Victoria,
and got out at from £lO
to £3B before it was
known generally in Aus-
tralia that Tookey stock
was not worth more than
£2O in N.Z.
No flourish of para-
graphs heralded Phil.
Robinson’s return to Aus-
tralia, but he was duly
delivered at Adelaide jut
Cuzco. Philip’s mission
this journey is not very apparent, because his one
lecture (under three different headings) was worked
threadbare during his last visit, and his effusive
Imperialism produced a general feeling of nausea.
Moreover, we recently read that he had been ap-
pointed editor of a London Sunday paper, under
the proprietorship of Miss A liee Cornwell. Miss
Cornwell —who, by the way, is a very handsome
blonde—also came over from England per Cuzco,.
which sets us wondering how the Sunday paper is
getting along meantime, and what the editor
wants in Australia. We take a tender interest in
Phil. Robinson, partly because of his Jove-like
front, but chiefly because be left us in such a hurry
last year to attend his invalid offspring. It was
so touching to think of the great war-correspon-
dent—a man who had quietly smoked his cigar on
a dozen gory battlefields, travelling 12,000 miles
to administer a clip of cold water to his sick
cheeild. The little one,»-presumably, is getting'
along nicely again, and for the sake of papa’s busi-
ness arrangements' we hope there won’t be another
bad attack.
# * *
Gillies, we hear, is hot engaged to many
the rich'widow Smith, and it is still even money
betting that Duncan dies a bachelor. Mrs. Smith
is off on a trip to England, by the way. And
while we think of it—2o years have elapsed since
the present Premier of Victoria, seriously contem-
plated matrimony. He was even then a member of
the Ministry, drawing a modest salary, but not
otherwise rich in this world’s goods. The lady


W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
be3t assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Wh’ch they ate selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
Time payments to suit customers.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments :
urn and LECHLEITER PI AM
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTET S Co, AMERICAN ORGANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Ilus travel catalogues mailed on app ication, hut
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W.H. PALING & GO . Ltd
356 GEORGE STREET, three Doers from G.P.O,
Among the many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
Shalvey, has spared no expense to make his hotel the first
in Sydney *
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Roller
Flour, and your bread will be as white as snow.
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
Had blushingly consented, named the day and
bought the trousseau. The heart of Duncan was
beating high with hope, when lo! the Ministry
was defeated, and his means of subsistence
Vanished. His too prudent fiancee declined to
face the music—the thought Of love in a possible
weatherboard cottage, at a low rental, wa£ dis-
tasteful to her. But Time has brought Duncan
his revenge. He passes his old “intended” on
the Collins-street block and smiles the smile which
has been immortalised by a Bulletin artist. It
is a smile capable of nffeaning many things. In
this instance it means: “ Madam, you are not
fluite- so young as yon were, but your undistin-
guished name remains unchanged. And it might
Rave been Lady Gillies in six ufonths from how.”
*% * -
Burglars broke into nip bedroom occupied
by Miss Nellie Stewart, at ail Adelaide hotel, and
stole a Saratoga trunk,
Representatives of the British beer in-
terest have been common in Australia lately. A
Mr. Hanbury, connected with Truman, Hanbury,
and Buxton’s brewery, only returned “home”
last week, after spending an uncommonly lively
time in this hemisphere. But Mr. Hanbury’s
tastes were more of a social than a sassiety turn,
s > the best people didn’t know much about him,
my dear,
# * *
After the announcement of Emperor
William’s death, it was rumoured in London that
the old gentleman had really been dead some
days, and that Bismarck kept him ‘ ‘ fresh ” on
blocks of ice, in the hope that Fritz might “ go
bifore” in the meantime, and-enable Prince
William to take direct succession. This ice idea
Was actually put into practice at the time of the
Duke of Edinburgh’s wedding. The Russian
Ambassador’s wife died just previously, and that
wily courtier refrigerated his good lady, so as not
to cast a gloom over the festivities by calling in
an undertaker,
• * *
This, cut from an American lady’s letter
fcj a London paper, should interest the 22 young
1 idieswho are now studying at Sydney University :
“ In your ‘ For Women by Women ’ column you speak
8: feminine advance in the States. lam surprised such
e ;ag-gerated ideas should prevail here. Even- position of
t-ust in which woman is placed but emphasises her in-
f iriority. Nowhere in the world is the immeasurable
siperiority of the male sex more apparent than in
America, simply because there woman is free and able to
g"low her utmost capability, and side by side we can see
the enormous difference that prevails. In fact, we have
never tiad a woman of the first rank, taking- the male
Standard as a criterion ; and I believe you in England
Have had only one iii all .your history. If man makes a
path for her she cart walk oil it, hut she cannot make a
path for herself.
THE TALE OF THE TRUNK.
Kellie S. was sweetly sleeping,
Sleeping in her cosy bunk,
When into her bedroom creeping
Burglars carrie, and saw a trunk.
Night it was ; ’neath the horizon
Bong the golden sun had sunk —
Blit they quickly clap’t their eyes on,
Oil that Saratoga trunk.
Still she lay and never shifted—
Ne’er an eye the goddess wunk ;
So the bold marauders lifted
(In a double sense) that trunk.
’Mid the silence quite unbroken
Out again those villains slunk ;
Leaving not a single token
Of that Saratoga trunk.
Nellie no such crime suspected
(She was slumb’ring like a monk
Af ter meals), and undetected
They departed with the trunk.
Had they dared to gaze upon her —
Then, with admiration drunk,
They’d have seized the priina donna,
Taken her—and left the trunk.
Yet, with some dull sense of duty,
From that sacrilege they’ve shrunk ;
We have still our peerless beauty,
Though, alas ! she’s lost her trunk.
Oh ! we tremble like a jelly
(Shake and shiver in a funk)
At the awful thought of Nellie
Being snavelled —like the trunk.
In conclusion, may our curses,
Curses rest on every skunk,
Who inspired these touching verses
By purloining Nellie’s trunk !
ANORIGINALITIES.
A Western N.S.W. sheep-breeder, whose
wool is fanlous, was very anxious that his last
year’s clip should be done carefully, ski he selected
the best shearers of the district and paid them 25
per cent, extra; The old man soon began to
f rumble—his men worked too qtlickly and hacked
is flock so outrageously that more than half the
harids were discharged the first wfie'e. The
boss watched every stroke of the shears and
cursed furiously every time that “ tar ”
was called. One day he for a few minutes
left the shed to turn offt the shorn sheep; in-
stantly the speed of his men was doubled. A
fine pedigree ram was vefy “ lumpy ” about the
rieck and a careless stroke severed its windpipe. Here
was a situation eminently calculated to make a
holier man than a shearer blaspheme. In two minutes
the boss would be inside the shed, and——well,
the consequences were too awful to dream of ! A
happy thought, the flashing of a mdment !
Throwing his shears aside, the ram-slayer re-
covered the animal with its great fleece and de-
posited the whole in the halLfilled wool-sack. In
came the squatter as the shearer went out to
bring in another sheep. A little while and theheavy
weight of the wool-press jammed down the body,
blood and bones of a 50-guinea ram, and in a few
weeks a bale that was not all golden fleece was
being carried over the bright Pacific to the best
London market.
» * *
Away out in a Riverina paddock some
rabbits were lying under a saltbush discussing the
situation. “Things are getting pretty sultry,”
said a young rabbit. “This carbonic acid gas
makes it quite unsafe to go down a burrow at all. ”
“What do you want to go down burrows for?”
retorted an old graybeard, as he languidly kicked
some poisoned wheat out into the open, where a
wild pigeon ate it; “I don’t see any necessity to
burrow in this climate. Camp out, man, camp
out!” “What about this rabbit-proof fence?”
said the young one. “Dig under it,” replied the
TOO TOUGH A CHICKEN.
SAM HANG SLING (who has been prospecting for the foul [?]rd and [?]s Upon a tame
emu): “BELLY TOUGH DEM TALL SHANGHAI CHICKENS. ME GIVE
DAT ONE ALLEE SAME BEST!"
old fellow. “ Then there’s one of those infernal
cats they turned out has made his appearance out
my way, ” said another. “ Oh, he’ll soon drop down
to living on the young lambs,” said the old boy—
“ young lambs are a lot easier to catch than rab-
bits. ” The conversation died out for a while until
one spoke up : “I see Pasteur has offered to give
that £25,000 to a hydrophobia hospital.” “ I
wouldn’t be in any hurry, if I were Pasteur, ”
said the old rabbit. “To begin with, he might
neVer earri it; and if he did I don’t think the
hornstalks are shah fetdis as to hand over £25,000
to a Frenchman. They’ll chouse him out of it
some way, you see. Besides, I think I know
enough to deal with any microbe that ever was
foaled.” “In what way? ” asked the others. The
old rabbit looked round his audience before he
answered. “You know the working of this
microbe caper ?” he said. “It is to give us a
kind of rabbit-smallpox—something that will
spread all through us. But there is a simple
remedy- compulsory vaccination ! Let them bring
along their microbes —our troubles ! ”
* * •
Dear Bulletin, —What can be said of a
prayerful N.S.W. magistrate who grants a license
to a lady who married in jail, and whose husband
by a lucky fluke got out in three years instead of
eight, and assigns to this pair the government of
my poison ? Again, another lady was for months in
the Chinese camp at Narandera, apart from her
husband, but now they have a licensed pub. in the
colony, and in the district, presided over by mine
ancient preceptor, the P.M. aforesaid.— Scotty
the Wrinkler.
* • •
Ed. Bulletin. Sir, — I have the honour
to repor the strangest case of absence of mind
that has ever ooeurred in New South Wales. Not
long ago I was in Temora and -saw a policeman
move off the footpath round the rear of a horse
that was _ standing across the sidewalk. Is our
Civil service a failure, and is the bold bobby played
out?—l have the honour to be, sir, your most
obedient servant, Hiram Abiit.
* * *
A curt bush stdry. On cine df tile coach-
ing “ roads” of N. S. Wales was recently observed
a dray, stuck fast, and round one wheel sigiis of
where the deep red clayey mud had been patiently
dug at in a vain endeavour to extricate it. Against
a contiguous tree leant an old man, his head bent
upon lus breast, a spade in his hand. The driver
hailed him. He did not answer, but the dray-
horse sniffed at the other animals and neighed
softly to them. Then someone got down aiid went
to the old man. He Was dead.
* * *
Not long ago the death of a Wealthy
Scotchman was announced by the colonial papers.
He had a large run on the Murrumbidgee, and
believed in cheap servants. Once he engaged two
runaway sailors to shepherd his rams, and his
only instructions were, “Look out for the old
blackfellow’s flock, and keep the rams from box-
■ mg.” A week afterwards he rode out to see his
shepherds, and found them running through the
flock, chasing first one ram and then another. W ith
a “ Hey ! what the highest Fahrenheit are you
at ?” he was soon with them. The nearest sailor
said, “ To Davy Jones’ with you and your rams !
Who the Sheol could keep the darlings from box-
ing? They’re at it night and day !” KB. and
mem.—Always explain to new-chums the mean-
ing of any colonial slang you may use.
* » *
There is a municipality in New Zealand
called A venal which is about as solvent as a bot-
tomless rabbit-burrow and as cheerful as a pasture
sown with chicken-cholera microbes and carrying
a parson to the acre. Lately it occurred ‘'to the
returning-officer of this Southern cemetery that it
was about time they elected a licensing committee.
The teetotal party put upv their candidates and
the drink-people theirs, and things seemed about
even until the Mayor and Town Council brought
their influence to bear on the election, and secured
the return of the publican party. After it was all
crver they adjourned to the pub., the only one in
the place, and then over a friendly gargle it came
out that the revenue from the one license meant
life or death to the borough funds, and so the cor-
poration worked their level best to get the right
men in and nail the yearly fee.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, The followin’ is a
beastly hard kase: —A sheppard came to Nar-
andera an’ got drunk as enny white man haz a
rite to do wenever he want too and it ain’t no-
bod dy’s bizrtess, and if he kant wat’s the good of
bein’ a white man anyhow. But wood you beleave
itt he was run in by an interferin’ blackfello or
haff-kast, or sum other animile that ain’t a pach
on a White cittizen, and I don’t no what the lord
maid them for if it was him and nott the uther
fellow wich I don’t az I don’t think there is enny
uther fellow at and as 1 nivver seed him, and I
don’t beleave be haz a tale or ’oofs eather. The
haff-kast said he was aktin under orders from the
polees, thou wat the polees want to giv orders to
a beastly nigger for I can’t tell, an’ the only order
wich oughter be given to them is the order to kleer
hout airnekst day the town witnesed the deggerda-
shun of seein’ a wite man who had been out on a
lawfull drunk with his own legal kornstawk-
tender and payin’ hiz way and only utterin’ a
hwoop about every quarter-of-a-hour to let the
popylashun no he was there brot up beffor a beck
which oughter to be abolished, and trust to the
moral feelins’ of the kominunity to keep them
skware without the opressive inflooence of magis-
traits and such, the same bein’ a relik of bar-
barism such as oughter be relegatted to the great
desert of Sarah or some other lokallitee where the
Kristyan Faith ain’t knowed. Also there was a
gastlee specktacle simbolikle of the dekay of the
Hangly-Sakson rase in the hijus form- of a nigger
testifyin’ in the witness-boles agin’ an able-
bodied member of the Aryan description of
the human families, an’, after swearin’ on a dekade
foul or some other beast wich is probablie sakred
in the eyes of these Pagans, owin’ to the fakt that
it is to far gorio for human food, this disgustin’
objehkt deklared that the prissoner had beeii tite
in a publik tliurrofare. _ The wite man pleeded
gilty with a dout in his own mind as to the sir-
kumstances, and the beilsh dismissed him with a
kawshun. I want to no if this is a propper way
for a Australyqrt to be treeted ill this kUiitry
when he had only been out on a private tite
with his own konsent and under his own per-
sonnall soopervishun, an’ if it is what are we all
homing to, an’ how long do you think itt will taik
tis to get there ail’ if so how mutch ?~YoUr@j
Warrigal Joe. Pea Hess. —Don’t yoti thifik it
probbable that the b'lakfello oWs lui orrijifi W
the burtyip ail’if So did ProVydenSe interid that
we shood be boss'ed by the s'oii of a b’unyip. I)tj
you konsider a haff-kast. to be a animile or not it
o &
A shearer came into a Northern town,' A
few days ago, and handed the piiblican a fairty
fat cheque. As usual it was melted in a few days
when the publican intimated that it was time to
travel, and generously presented his late customer
with sixpence to buy a saddle-strap !
* *
According to N.S.W. bush legends, Mor-
gan, the bushranger, was a “ friend of the poor
man.” The story goes that just after Morgan
was shot a well-known wealthy and parsimonious
squatter said bluntly to a bushman : “Morgan is
dead—l give no more rations.” “Yes, but
Bryant and May are alive,” replied the whaler,
lighting his pipe with a lucifer. That sundowner
got his pannikin of dust.
* * *
When the missionaries first arrived in
New Zealand it was considered the correct thing
to raise the benighted natives out of their kiwi
mats and flax togas to the refinement and aesthetic
taste which affected the orthodox shirt and pro-
perest of proper pants. At a Sunday morning
service one of these pioneer sky-pilots was hor-
rified to observe one of his neophytes “clothed
and in his right mind,” as he thought, with a pet-
ticoat on him of the most pronounced feminine
fashion of the day, and a regatta shirt (a size too
large) into the sleeves of which he had inserted
his legs. He had tied the body round his waist
with a piece of fiax.
* * *
An Opposition candidate for a North
Queensland constituency thus concludes his printed
election address i—“ Such, gentlemen, is all I dare
print. 1 shall meet you face to face on the hust-
ings in the scorching Queensland sky and there
tell you such truths that your hair will stand on
end till the election is over and my name appears
at the head of the poll.”
** * •
Dear Bulletin,-- t suppose you*receive
hundreds of letters on the Chinese Question. Now,
1 Jus one. In the little town of Coonamble, N.S.W,,
■K) arrived at one pup, and they went to a den
already crowded. The local (chief) paper spoke
manfully on the subject. Last night I was talk-
ing to four natives on the same. They all swore
and that was all. They would not. promise to
join an Anti-Chinese League. One of them said
Chinaman did not affect him because he was a
horse-breaker. He could not even see that if a
Chinaman was placed as* (say) groom, where the
-groom, whom he had ousted, was a horse-breaker,
that then there Would be opposition in his trade.
Again (here I must enunciate an axiom), all
Coonamble men are, in theory, fighting-men ; but
these four fighting youths were afraid to go up to
the woolwash and -well—wash the yellow off the
bosses who employ Chinkies. As I have often
written to you concerning the young bush native,
he does not care much for his country. Given
horse, smoke, full belly, and red necktie, what
' does the future matter to him ? Of course the
educated native is a different article, and even
here I find many of them say : “I’ll employ whom
I d well please.” That is, if they see a quick
pound or two. There are worse men than even
Irish dynamiters. It is horrible to think that I,
brought up in the fusty Cqlviuistic Scotch Church,
should, in my old age, begin to believe in a mix-
ture of nitro-glyeerine and clay, instead of sound
doctrine from the pulpit. The Legislature has
not consulted me as to the new Mongolian Bill. I
should only have two clauses! 1. Every employer
of a Chinaman to pay £5O for every year or part
of a year for each Chinaman (or Kanaka) em
ployed. 2. Every Chinese trader to affix a £1
stamp to every article sold by him. That would
meet the case.- Yours, Scottt the Wrinkler,
* * *
A Covvra (N.S.VV.) publican pays a very
high compliment to the Roman Catholics of that
district. He says he will most willingly close up
his house three Sundays in the month if the police
will allow him to open two hours on the fourth
Sunday, which is the day whereon devout wor-
shippers assemble to hear mass. His pub. is a<nn
the chapel.
* * #
The skeleton of a man has been found in
the bush four miles from Warwick (Q.). He
lias been identified as the man who, some
months ago, set out on foot to find a sober
Queenslander. Having failed in his journey of
discovery through the Northern portion of the in-
temperate kingdom, he has gone South—has, in
fact, presented himself to St. Nicholas the Elder,
with a view to continuing his search among the
same people. He will, doubtless, find them all as
dry and thirsty as ever.
* * *
A story from the Far North. A party of
three—two old hands and a very green and sappy
new-chum—started out from a station to round up
stray cattle. The day was hot enough to freckle
the complexion of a stone god, and the new-chum
was almost fried in his saddle, but he peeled off
most of his raiment and leaked grease till sun-
down, when a halt was called, and the party
camped by a small but swift stream. Suddenly
the new-chum’s mates heard a yell and a splash
and, making for the river, they discovered
Johnny-Come-Lately floundering in mid-stream
spouting like a whale and imploring to be assisted
out of the wet. His mates were aware that lie
could not swim a stroke, and conjectured that all
was over with him, but as lie continued to float
and yell they followed him down, and at last, by
careful engineering, reached him with a hooked
stick and towed him ashore at a bend, after lie
had been 15 minutes in the water, floating all the
time as buoyantly as a cork. This was a mystery
but it was explained when he landed-he had lieen
so dreadfully sunburnt that the'blisters wouldn't
let him sink!


BEALE and .COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydne
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniui
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machine
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mans
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you liv
we will supply you with our Manufactures upc
TimeJPayment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash
The hapsburg double iron-frame
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, ar
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverb
rated by a sounding board of special constru
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of tl
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds i
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of gref
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations c
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tunin
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, h
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the cas
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Plank
iai uminstead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible
► jby the substitution of bronze for other metals
9th. The outer cases are handsome in design, anc
of durable and beautiful woods ; they can b
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or ii
Ebony and Gold.
iUTWA ...3T5
' . \
KEALE PATENT NEW.HIGII-ARM SEWING'MACIIINE
Special Qualities and Improvements.
Loose wheel; selflossing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle ; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are will-
ing to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
i
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly s'wiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
pended in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone lias noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
482, 484 and 486 George Street, Sydney.
r I HE HERO FREEHOLD SILVER AND
I GOLD MINING COMPANY, Limited,
STAR RIVER, KENNEDY DISTRICT
NEAR TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
CAPITAL :
£150,000 in 150,000 £1 Shares.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
James W. Johnson, Esq. (Messrs. Want, Johi
son, and Co., solicitors, Sydney),
Robert Prendergast, Esq. (the Castlemain
Brewery Co.),
Thos. Wilton, Esq. (of the Lithgow Colliery),
E. H. Taylor, Esq. (of Messrs. Starkey an
Taylor),
Geo. Norton Russell, Esq., Woollahra.
SOLICITOR :
Ernest A. Smith, Esq., O’Connell-street.
BROKERS:
Messrs. Clarke and Co., Sydney and Melbourne.
J. C. Griffin, Esq., P. O. Chambers, Pitt-street
Sydney.
BANKERS:
Royal Bank of Queensland.
Bank of New Zealand.
HON. SECRETARY (pro tern.):
J- J- Slade, Esq., 303 Pitt-street, Sydney.
This Company is formed for the purpose
miking, for Silver, Gold and Lead) thirty acr
o:
working, for Silver, Gold and Lead) thirty acres
of absolute freehold, acquired direct from the
Crown in 1882. It is situate on the Star River,
Kennedy district, about 50 miles from Townsville
(the proposed capital of Northern Queensland).
The mine was discovered by a Greek prospector,
named Koledas, in 1881, and, under the existing
land law in Queensland at that period, Koledas
made application for the purchase of the freehold
at 30s. per acre—the ruling price for mineral
Crown lands. Through some informality, his ap-
plication was refused. The Mines Department,
however, caused the land to be put up to public
auction. At this time Silver Mining was com-
paratively unknown in Australia, an impression
prevailing that nothing under 150 oz. per ton would
pay for the erection of smelting works. How
mistaken this view was is best demonstrated by
the fact that--as in the case of the Broken Hill
mines, ores yielding an average of 350 z. to the
ton give enormous financial returns, placing a
market value on the Proprietary Blocks alone, of
upwards of SIX MILLIONS STERLING.
Rumours appear to have circulated that Koledas
had in his prospecting operations exposed ores of an
exceptionally rich character, assaying many hun-
dred ounces to the ton. Owing to these reports the
30 acres of land realised at auction £l5OO, or £1455
over the upset value. Koledas, notwithstanding
the sale, took possession of the land, and before
his ejectment could be accomplished, took out 12
tons of ore, and shipped same to England. It has
been ascertained he obtained a return of over £7O
per ton net (or about 500 oz. of silver to the ton).
The preliminary trouble with Koledas, and the
deaths of some of the original proprietors, have
up to the present time retarded the proper de-
velopment of the property. The title now is un-
questionable.
REPORTS ON THE MINE.
The directors possess reports from such recog-
nised scientific authorities and mining experts as
the late Professor Denton (the eminent geologist),
Mr. Robert L. Jack (Queensland Government
geologist), Messrs. Bennett and Gamble (mining
engineers), Mr. Richard King (managing director
of the Ravenswood Silvermining Company), and
Mr. E. J. King; and these reports, by the facts
and statistics stated therein, will give more con-
vincing evidence of the value of the property than
anything which can be written in an ordinary
prospectus. It will not be out of place, however,
to mention that isolated masses of ore, consisting
of carbonate of lead —some weighing nearly 7cwt.,
containing 500 oz. of silver to the ton —have been
found near the top of the Hero Hill. The property
is situate in mountainous country, and forms the
greater portion of a high hill. A tunnel driven
near the base of the freehold would cut the main
lode in the settled formation, and thus permit
stoping from the higher levels. Many of the sur-
face indications have been followed in a desultory
fashion with most gratifying results. Twelve tons
of “ first ” were raised, realising over £7O per ton
net; 597 bags of mixed ores, m all weighing 25
tons Ocwt., were also shipped to London per
steamer Merkera, and returned per cent, of
lead and 1540 z. of silver to the ton. The net pro-
ceeds amounted to £875 15s. Four tons have
within the past fortnight been forwarded to Ade-
laide for smelting.
These statements, backed up by the sterling
and reliable reports referred to, will be, it is con-
sidered, sufficient testimony to the genuine worth
of the property, and its value as an investment.
REPORT OF RECENT WORKINGS ON THE
HERO MINE.
N. and S. Lode. —A cutting has been put in
27ft. 6in. long, lift, deep, and lift. wide.
A drive has been put in at the end of cutting,
16ft. on the course of the lode. A winze has been
sunk on the drive 4ft. deep, and a barrow road
20ft. long and sft. deep has been cut at the bottom
of the cutting to take stuff from drive.
A cutting has been put in further south on the
lode, Bft. wide, 9ft along the course of load, and
6ft. deep. Cleaned out tunnel E. W. lode, and
timbered same ready for stoping.
An assay from this tunnel gave the following
result: —Lead, 66 per cent. ; Silver, 6320 z. 2dwt.
per ton of ore.
EDWARD JAMES KING,
of the Ravenswood Silver-mining Co.
ASSAYS FROM VARIOUS PARTS OF THE
FREEHOLD.
Mere fire assays alone, unsupported by the
smelting of a bulk mass of ore, are not to be de-
pended upon as indicative of the true commercial
value of a lode. Fortunately the shipments to
England of so many tons fully bear out the
appended assays. Forty-one tons of average ores
have now been smelted, yielding over ll,ooooz. of
silver, 50oz. of gold, and 18 tons of lead.
ASSAY BY PROFESSOR DIXON.
The following are the results given by the sam-
ples of silver lead ores, &c., sent to me. The
sample marked “ Hero ” contains :
No. 1.
Lead 46.64 per cent.
Silver 5200 z. ldwt. Ogr. per ton.
Gold Ooz. sdwt. sgr. per ton.
The silver in this sample is present as chloride,
whilst the lead exists as carbonate and sulphate of
lead with traces of galena.
-Li l_/« 4.
Marked “Hero ‘seconds,’” contains :
L ea d 8.71 per cent.
Silver 2310 z. 17dwt. Bgr. per ton.
* t •• • ‘ioz. 13dwt. 14gr. per ton.
In this ore the lead is present as carbonate only,
and the silver as chloride.
WILL. A. DIXON, F. 1.0., F.C.S.
ASSAY CERTIFICATE.
I have the honour to inform you that I have
assayed the samples of silver lead 'ore submitted
oy you, with the following results :
Brown Fine silver per ton, 1560 z. 2dwt. 22gr.
■ ’ Fine gold per ton, 14dwt. 16gr.
Yellow Ore Fine silver per ton, 2250 z. 14dwt.
22gr.
Fine gold per ton, 2oz. ldwt. Bgr.
WILLIAM F. ROBERTS, Assayer.
ASSAYS OF SAMPLES OF SILVER ORE
FROM HERO MINE.
East and West Lode, No. 1, bottom of under
layshaft, Silver 3oz. sdwt. Bgr., no lead.
East and West Lode, No. 2, top of stope, silver
5760 z. 4dwt. 19gr„ lead 13 t jer cent.
East and West Lode, No. 3, east drive, silver
490 z., lead 74 per cent.
No. 4, North and South Lode, south end of
cutting, silver 1550 z. 9dwt. 2gr., lead 9 per cent.
No. 5, North and South Lode, north end, silver
IGoz. 6dwt, 16gr., no lead.
No. 6, North-east and South-west Lode, silver
550 z. lOdwt. lGgr., lead 34 pet cent.
No. 7, North-east and South-west Lode, silver
490 z., lead 12 per cent.
No. 8, North and South Vein, south end of
cutting, sunk 6ft. deeper than No. 4, silver 4900 z.
lOdwt. 16gr., lead 414 per Cent.
EDWARD JAMES KING.
* No trial was made for gold.
GENERAL REMARKS.
With the exception of £5OOO to cover genera
expenses, together with the cost of floating the
Company and brokerage, the present proprietors,
in evidence of their thorough belief in the richness
of this property, accept paid-up Shares in pay-
ment thereof.
In the beginningof April it is intended to adopt
the course indicated by the late Professor Denton,
and commence the tunnel at base of Hero Hill.
At the same time a body of men will be kept at
work following the rich ore in view. A special
feature of this mine is the uniform distribution of
gold through the property. The entire hill carries
gold, and steps will be taken to make a trial
crushing of the “gossan,” with a view to the
profitable extraction of the precious metal on a
large scale.
The gold which is proved by assay to be in the
ore, forms an important factor in its value, and
should more than pay the entire expenses of rais-
ing and smelting.
Although very rich patches of chlorides have
been discovered, no sensational assays are pub-
lished, as more reliance can be placed on the solid
fact of 41 tons of average ore being smelted for a
return of 11,0000 z., or over 2500 z. of silver to the
ton.
Should a concentrated lode mass be cut by the
tunnel, thousands of tons could be quickly raised.
An output of merely 2000 tons would return the
whole capital, even if called up, which is impro-
bable.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Contributing Shares available were over
applied for on MONDAY , 9th instant, before
12 o'clock, and the Share List is absolutely closed.
H
Amusements
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and A Uison.
s open 7 ; Performance 7.30 ; Carriages 10.45.
FAUST. FAUST. FAUST. FAUST.
Me. Geo. Rignold as Meph istop helps.
Miss Kate Bishop as Marguekite.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
rpi H E A T R E ROYAL.
I Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.20.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
PRINCESS IDA,
or,
CASTLE ADAMANT.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s.
STANDARD THEATRE.
THIRD WEEK
OF
FRANK SMITH’S BURLESQUE COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
OF
DON JUAN, JUNIOR.
IVJost efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
QRITEEION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICaULT.
GRAND COMEDY SEASON.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
LAST 8 NIGHTS LAST 8 NIGHTS
LAST 8 NIGHTS LAST 8 NIGHTS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’S
SUCCESSFUL COMEDY,
SOPHIA
SOPHIA
SOPHIA.
Business Manager ... ... Mr. Joe Davis.
JJOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists,
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest!—
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH, Director.
Amusements.
Alhambra music hal
George street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smitl
Stage Manager ... Mr. H. Barringt
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER
VOX POPULT.
OUR 3rd YEAR. OUR 3rd YEAR.
Unprecedented in the Annals of all Minstrelsy
the Southern Hemisphere.
Being one Unbroken Record.
EVERY EVENING, Miss NORAH MARTII
the favourite Serio-Comic Vocalist.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls, Is., Baloony, 6d.
Ashfield recreation ground
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
I uesday, Thursday and Saturday Evening?
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked fo
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c
Coming Events :
April 21—Newington College Sports.
April 28 —Summer Hill Bicycle Sports.
May 24—Manchester Unity of Oddfellows Fete.
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
c
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
OOGEE PALACE, AQUARIUM. BATHS
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
Gigantic Success of the Palace Skating Rink,
The Great Swimming Bath, 100 ft. long.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia,
Entertainments Every Afternoon.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission, One Shilling. Children Half-price,
A. E. STOPFORD, Manager.
Business Announcements.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
W
E beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGARETTES, also FINEST BRANDS of CIGARS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices !
&3T Note this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand —in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS KUII !
SS’ By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & SOWN,
MERCHANTS,
H BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBD. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
Still maintains its Prestige and stands pre-eminent among
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the brand.
•JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00,
231 CLARBNCE-STREET.
GKBD*
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments comfnz forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
rpHOMAS BUCKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
„ „ Langland's Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vic.
SPECIAL NOTICE. — The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, publishers FITZ
GERALD BROS., Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be orp sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.


i
Type-W riting Machines have become a necessity, and
Ifhe V Hall ” has the most complete embodiment of good
features yet devised fo rewriting.
It is constructed on a principle entirely its own, having
points of value peculiar to itself, and which cannot be
claimed by others. It is adapted to a wider range of
work t/han ?my other writer. Sit is simple. It is inex-
pensive and is complete.
It ifi designed to be place of the pen, having
Convenience, Neatness, Clearness, Legibility, Compact-
ness and Economy in its favour
SOME OF ITS ADVANTAGES.
SIMPLICITY.—It has not a tenth part as many pieces
as the keyed machines, and is consequently far less,Hable
to <*et out of order.
PORTABILITY.-—It occupies a space of but 14 x 7 x
and weighs, enclosed in a neat walnut case,
only about 7 pounds,'being much smaller and lighter
than any other complete Type-Writing Machine. It can
be used’ anywhere—on railway trains, at the office or
home, on a table or in the lap,
COMPLETENESS.—Each type plate has eighty-two
characters—-numerals, punctuation marks, and both
upper‘(CAPS) and lower case (small) letters.
Exceptional Honoyg-The SCOTT HE DAE, Awarded by the
Cttyof Philadelphia. Recommended by Pranklin|Institute, 1884.
iimm
NAMES OF PRINCIPAL PARTS
A A—tbp plate*
BH— hinged.
C— . spncb rod.
Q— barrel. .
R&— index-plate,
handle pointer.
G-**printing post.
H—spacer.
I— apaco-icey
epiice adjuator
K«— left hand atop
£c+~ bell aod hell stop.
M— bell rod.
N— paper clip.
0~ ojip latch find button.
p£—platen
Q—. paper roller
B— roller ratchet
8— roller knot*.
TT— acorns or sat ntifs.
CJD— top pinto latches
V— ‘ lifter frarno^
X— carriage) shift.
THE MEDAL OF Sl't’EJRIOHITV, Awarded by the
American Institute, over the fiemingtonund Caligraph at Semi-Centennial
VARIETY.—On the HALL, you can use numerous
Styles of type or language interchangeably, taking less
than a minute the change. This is important,
and in itself alone makes the HALL of great value.
Type plates aft} ss. each, and a few dollars 1 outlay will
give you a pleasing variety, which will make the use of
your writer very fascinating work,
LANGUAGES —You select from 10 styles of English
type, change at will to German, Italian,- French, Ac., and
have any other style made to order. No scholar will fail
to appreciate this.
LEGIBILITY.—It prints directly from the type upon
the paper, and not through an inked ribbon—(thus avoid-
ing the blurred appearance which other writers are liable
to give to their work. No other Writer does as nice work,
CAPACITY. Paper, postal cards and envelopes are
all used with equal facility. It will write a line of 74
or 114 letters, as you wish, and take in paper any width
up to 16 inches. It is the only writer adapted to print
from a continuous roll of paper.
v COPYING.—Letter-press copies are perfect, two oh
three can be made from one printing.
MANIFOLDING,—The manifold work- done on the
HALL with manifold type is unequalled, and from thirty
to sixty copies can be taken on the Hektograph.
i PRICE.—The price of the HALL is only £lO 10s.,
while its completeness exceeds the most costly.
Sole Agents for Australasia: MACKRELL MILLS & CO., 269 George Street, Sydney.
THE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and others. The proprietor will
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study. Opposite G.P.O. and Town
nail. Private bitting' Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. 5
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spencer-street.
VISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate.
PETER WOODS,
Oft cer and Proprietor.
Business Announcements.
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“PLUM
RAZOR.”
FOR private use is unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground, set ready for use Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee it for two (2) years. Price, 1.0/6 each. Send P.O. Order.
One of the finest Russian Leather Graduating Strops, 7/6 ; a Tin ef the best Razor Paste, 1/-; Stick of
rmnsparent Shaving Soap, or a Jar of Non-irritant Shaving Soap, specially prepared by ourselves to
suit the climate, 1/-; good Shaving Brush from 1/-; a real Badger Shaving Brush, 3/6 ; Bottle ©f Bay
Ktiuin or Yaddo Water for use mi the face after shaving, 3/6.
©,Xi.cL
Potosoi Hair-irtmg Saloon, 630 Georte-streel, Brickfield Bill, Sydney,
LEA & PE RRI N S'SAUC E
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
have ia, request that Purchasers see that the Isabel on every bottle
bears their Signature, thus ~
without which no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS' Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle asiM
°PP* r ' Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ,* Crosse and
> and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Wholesale'Agents i Montefiore. Jqsbph & Co.; nAvfh rowing fy, 7' f C i Ry^ nfr . r ~ r
BRIJITON’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY ... 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edward Street.
MELBOURNE ... ... Spencer Street.
FOR- SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Annlv
Bulletin Office.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP.
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL.”
All Grocers, City and Suburbs,- Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co;, Ltd.,
50 Clarence street.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BBIG-HTON of 3ST.S.W.
A T tho CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties etc are
TOTfcareiilfvinmfhP h°i ICe •*“ Larg ° Dining Hall. Besides having a most recherche
cunner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of (he sea and surrouedinsr countrv •
here also you can have good company, good wines-in fact, everythtag SffSSSe
lt thi u r « all J first ' class hoteL Ashing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
spared br Mr '- » «*>»”
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
• Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
THE SPEARINO HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
"Victoria,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
du. E. Spiiriif i Co„
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel in the
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Alcock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. I. B. Spearing,
PROPRIETOR.
THE EMPIRE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
Hunter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
This new and magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the most modern principles.
Large aad well-ventilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
Comfort of Guests first consideration, position most central, Hydraulic Lift for Guests and
Visitors, Sanitary Arrangements perfect, Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
receive prernpt attention.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
Business Announcements.
TEETH LIKE PEARLS,
s,°™ d<?c»y, » healthy action of the gvms, and delight-
a^oSn^daUy Tt CAn obtained by discording gnttj tooth powder* end acid wash**
ftowlaiicte*’
Oaonto
or Pearl
herbal, a,
the teeth,
yra»t? decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gums, and gives a
tofluen 6 ™ ™ a
ii*.re’ ■“w-Mpwu ana ann-scorDutic properties exercise O
*"£i**f influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither washes or
• No other'Odonto is genuine.
li now .014 to a golden colony Ste
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates all cutaneoao
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate, a a anywhere for li (l w' .wifmi
articles, of 20. Hatton Garten, tendon, and avoid wsX ASTsim ®
'Wholesale and Retail Agents—Eli iott Bros., and E. Prosssr & Go., 3/dney,


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSUR A NCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST lor long term
deposits.
BINK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under 12 months.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
jroperty, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for DeposTs of three years and upward - .
NOTWITHST ENDING fall in Bank Rates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years A With Cash Bonus if renewed
£6 „ „ 12 months (at the rate of £1 per cent per
£o „ i, 6 months ( annum, or wichrfrwab'.e on
£4 „ „ 3 m inthsj notice n terms of prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company folicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over term? of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
To Tokconisls and Storekeepers.
Read this announcement. It largely affects your
interests.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR
MERCHANTS iNI) IMPORTERS,
680 and 682 George Street, Sydney.
HAVE a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobacco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and tilvor-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Sticks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG AND AITKEN.
Our Consignments come direct from the Manu-
facturers, consequently wc arc able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL lines.
s
ARMY AND NAVY,
For SMOKING or CHEWING,
Is still the-most popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CR -IG AND AITKEN.
TRNE A ROM ATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s., 145.,
p.p.’s, 7s. : TWIST.
CUT TOB i CCOS.
VULCAN MIXTURE ( irr erican), finely flavored,
best value in the market. Jib. packets.
A MERIC «N ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
CUT, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
EL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavoured.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality.
CRAIG and A I T K E N.
H AIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
Special attention devoted to this branch.
Saloons fitted out in first-class style at a very
moderate cost. Parties starting in business can
have their every want supplied, thus avoiding all
inconvenience and delay. Orders enclosing P.O.
Orders or Cash promptly attended to.
Pay Particular attention to the Address :
CRAIG and AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,.
680 and 682 George-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY Tobacco
and Cigarettes. Price Lis! on application.
Frank Cotton, the lecturer on Land
Nationalisation, was originally on probation as a
Wesleyan parson.
Of all Australian papers, Tun Bulletin
is the one most frequently re-mailed from one
reader to another. It is also the one most
frequently stolen in transit.
The Victorian Orangemen have named one
of their lodges the “Edith O’Gorman Auffrey
Orange Lodge.” Haynes has a chance yet.
Fashionable Actress : “ Who is that gentle-
man you are kissing your hand to, Effie ?” Sharp
little eight-year old : “ Don’t you remember him,
mammy.? He kissed you last night!”
He (after having slipped the engagement-
ring on her finger) : “And you are pleased with
it, darling?” She: “ Delighted, George ! It is
so different from anything of the sort I’ve ever
had before.”
A Special Invitation.
We especially invite a tr'al by all those sufferers
from kidney and liver complaints who have failed
to obtain relief from other remedies and from
doctors. ature’s great remedy, dr. bell’s
bitters, has effected cures in n any obstinate
cases. It acts at once on the kidneys, liver and
bowels, cleansing the system of all poisonous
humours and restoring a healthy condition to those
important organs. Do not be discouraged, but
try it.
Iv tub SUFFERERS FROM CONSUMPTION*, SCROFULA, AND
General Debility, will try Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod
Liver Oil with Htpopiiospiiites, they will find immediate
relief and a permanent benefit. The Medical Profession
in the various countries of the world, universally declare
it a remedy of the greatest value ; and as it is very
palatable, it can be readily taken by the most sensitive
stomach, and will never fail to give relief and comfort to
the sufferer. Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion.— This is ob-
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &e., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
MO MORE HARD TIMES.
If you will stop spending so much on fine clothes, rich
food'and style, buy good, healthy food, cheaper and better
clothing, get more real and substantial things of life
every wav, and especially stop the foolish habit of em-
ploying expensive quack doctors or using so much of the
vile humbug medicine that does you only harm, but put
your trust in that simple, pure remedy, Dr. Soule’s Ameri-
can Hop Bitters, that cures always at a trifling cost, and
you will see good times and have good health. —
“ Chronicle.”
A Melbourne paper relates that a Bendigo
(Vic.) fruiterer cracked open a cocoa-nut and
found a frog inside. There is a fairy story which
tells of a girl given to false statements, and every
time she fibbed a frog jumped out of her mouth.
GUILTY OF WRONG.'
Some people have a fashion of confusing excellent
remedies with the large mass of “patent medicines,” and
in this they are guilty of a wrong. There are some
advertised remedies fully worth all that is asked for them,
and one at least we know of : Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters. The writer has had occasion to use the Bitters in
just such a climate as we have most of th 6 year in Bay
City, and has always found them to he first-class and
reliable, doing all that is claimed for them.—“ Tribune.”
The Happiness of Millions.- On what does the hap-
piness of populations or individuals depend? On that
inestimable blessing—Health. Ought it not then to be the
study of every Colonist to ascertain foi -himself the best
means by which this priceless boon, once attained, can be
for ever preserved ? The r nswer must he in the affirma-
tive. A large number of Colonists in New Zealand are
aware that there is a medicine which not only wards off
Disease, but rapidly cures all maladies that occur there,
and actually prolongs life. This invaluable medicine is
Freeman’s Original and Genuine Chlorodyne, which cures
and arrests, in their very earliest stages, all the Diseases
that happen, not only in New Zealand, 'but in all the Aus-
tralian Colonies.—Sold everywhere throughout the
Colonies. Insist upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject
substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an Ele-
phant *
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
; especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
! the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
| are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W." Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street," Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.
A Bilious Headache.
Is easily cured if you use the right medicine,
■which is dr. BELL’S bitters. The headache so
wry uncomfortable and the medicine so c'ieap ; do
r,ot'delay, but call at your druggist’s and get a
i bottle.
I'EA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
BSS.EJO'CTTB
FOR ALL
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
:o:l
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Manufacturing; Machines in Existence.
rjp
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
Id YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for tfie above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers ot' Requisites for tjie Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers, &<•. ; and of the following Special Lines PEERLESS GLOSS, SATIS POLISH, NUBIAN BLACK-
|\(;; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents livctntril on Favourable Terms.
Business A nnouncements.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day ; a wineglassful fur an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Beb'lity, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
andCotaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two cr three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantify of water. For
young people about half tbe quan ity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDIC tL GENTLEMAN SAYS
A BOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
V i h thanks for forwarding me a bott.l j of jour
Row’s Dandelion Bitter*, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours fai lifully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion U tters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a diffe r ent
man. I can, therefore, with fruthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver comp’aint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for atfect'ons of the
liver, indiges'ion, pain in the chest, general de=
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great-
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horiibly depres:ed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualit’es of ROWS DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been m .y take advantage of them.
“I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
•‘MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
ows
•,w T
EMBROCATION
■ J
M
3
SSI
sold mm
JOSEPHSOFS OINTMENT.
cp
By Ro\, . Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE:
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSE PI ISON'S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josophson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves,
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried j our Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, j’ours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
oiTUi) y iiealth ~by taking rows
o STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declarations.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
*' That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEaNE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ ) Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.”
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
EDW. ROW and COMPANY.
HIS ONE INFIRMITY.
CRAFTON: “AWFULLY CLEVER FELLOW, CAGLEY. HE MIGHT RHINE IN.
SOCIETY IF IT WASN'T FOR HIS ONE INFIRMITY.”
MISS CLARA: “WHY, I ALWAYS THOUGHT HE WAS VERY CORRECT IN HIS
HABITS.”
CR ALTON: “OH, YES, HE IS ALL THAT, YOU KNOW; BUT HIS NECK’S SO
DEUCEDLY SHORT THAT HE ALWAYS HAS TO WEAR A TURN-DOWN
COLLAR." -American Paper.


Business Announcements.
OUR
NEW ADDRESS
5 Doors from Liverpool-street
TECE3 OIJTL'Sr
musical ummiT
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
BEG to return thanks to their numerous
patrons and friends for past favors,
and, at the same time, to inform them that
they have opened their new establishment
at above address with a new and complete
stock of
Musical Instruments
and all kinds of fittings, in fact it is the
grandest and most superb show in Australia.
We have specially imported over 750 new
- instruments for our new premises, and can
safely say that no other house can equal us.
Our line in
AGCORDEONS
is something marvellous.
c
• i
PATENT BRASS NOTED AGCORDEONS,
10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 40/-,
50/-, &c.
PATENT STEEL NOTED AGCORDEONS,
30/-. 32/6, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 4'/-, 45/-, and 50/-.
PATENT BROAD REEDED ACCORDEONS,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 40/ , 45/-, 50/-, up to £5 10/-.
P TENT GERMAN SILVER ACCOBDEONB,
3«/-, 32/6-, 35/-, 37/6, 40/-, 45/-, 50/-, up to 434.
4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to £l5.
Genuine Lnctienal Anglo German 35/..
lt ~ steel notes 50/-.
We have a special line of splendid Organ Con-
certinas in wood lj°x, lock and key, complete
for 21/-.
a Bar joes we have the finest to be seen In Aus-
ralla, having by the lait American Mail received
n extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, !5/-, 20/, 30/-, up to £l5 15/-.
ODR SPECIAL LINES ARE:—
5, 6 or 7 Btrlng n’ckel Banjoes, £8 10/-.
5, 6 or 7 „ „ „ 4 10/-.
VIOLIN STRINGS.
Celebrated Zamplnanl’s at 6d , 9d-, and 1/-, each.
AMERICAN BANJO STRINGS,
Celebrated Ewlngton’s at 6d , 9d., and 1/-, each.
Brass and Drum and Fife Bands
furnished throughout.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED OUT.
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
the colonies.
Enquiries attended to by return of post.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY’.
One out of every 105 mothers who added
to the population of Victoria last year gave birth
to twins.
Among those who took degrees at Mel
bourne University were the following ladies
Lilian Helen Alexander, M.A., Catherine Alicia
Remvick and Elizabeth Whyte, B, A.
Country husband to his city bride : “ Mary
cant find the cow, and it's past milking-time.”
Citv bride : “Why, dear, I locked her up in the
ice-house so as she’d make some ice-cream. It’s so
hot.”
A retired tradesman as illiterate as a
Bosjesman and as rich as Crresus, says that the
only way to keep a hat is to put your entrails
inside of it.” He means initials, but it makes no
difference.
They were very happy. His name was
Smith. He was married to his third wife. Each
lady had brought him a fortune, which he hus-
banded judiciously. People spoke of him as
Goldsmith. It was very unkind.
Some substantial stone hotels are going up
at Broken Hill, and the proprietors of the early
gin-case and kerosene-tin erections are now not so
haughty in their demands of two and three thou-
sand pounds for the goodwill and furniture, of
their businesses.
Here is a specimen slab of the sillynonsense
which the Sydney Morning Herald prints in re
the operations of the late local annual military en-
campment :
“ Just as the crew were about to fire their fourth round
they were signalled to return to the Wolverene, as Captain
Hixson had come aboard and wished to see Captain Lee.
The latter having- returned went across to Middle Head
with Captain Hixson and lunched with Colonel Roberts.”
As we have not yet a king or queen in Australia
to grovel to, we are beginning to bow down before
Hixson and Lee and Roberts and their corned
beef and cabbages !
A Voice from the People,
THE GREATEST CURATIVE SUCCESS OF
THE AGE.
dVTO medicine introduced to the public has ever
T* met with the success accorded to belt.’s
bitters. It stands to-day the best known cura-
tive article in the world. Its marvellous renown
is not due to the advertising it has received. It
is famous by reason of its inherent virtues. It
does all that is claimed for it. It is the most
powerful, speedy and effective agent known for
the building up of debilitated systems and general
family medicine.
Ophir, N.S.W., Dec. 9th, 1886.
Bell’s Bitters Manufacturing Co. —Gentlemen—
I have been a sufferer for seventeen years from
the effect of a cold I contracted while at work
under ground. I have tried almost everything, I
have also been to several doctors and have not re-
ceived any benefit, at times I am able to work for
a few weeks then get bad and for as many months
am confined to the house. I got a bottle of your
Bitters last week from Orange, and took it within
a week, for every l ime the cough was trouble-
some I took a little, and I am glad to say I am
greatly improved, for I am able to do a little
mining since.
Ed. McConnell.
Ophir Diggings, via. Orange, N.S.W.
Bell’s Bitters has been before the public but
a few months, yet the remarkable success which has
attended its use in the many hospitals and asylums
where it has been tested, has resulted in its being
placed on the list of regular supplies needed for
tlie dai ! y use of the institution.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOB
SEW SOUTH WALES AND QUEENSLAND.
Some four-and-twenty camels are grazing
near the railway line between Silverton and
Broken Hill. The newly-landed Irish new-chum
joyfully hails them as kangaroos.
There are already somewhere about 12,000
people at Broken Hill, the N.S.W. silver city,
and yet the present Post-office is scarcely as large
as a dog-kennel, while the one approaching com-
pletion is not more roomy than a fowl-house. '
The following official notice was posted at
the recent Middle Head (N.S.W.) military en-
campment “ All bottles to be buried or carted
away. Officers’ and sergeants’ messes are espe-
cially cautioned with regard to this order.” Com-
ment would be cruel.
Tennyson Smith (son of James of that ilk)
for some years on the editorial staff of the Bris-
bane Telegraph, and who is well known also
in Sydney press circles, passed through Sydney
last week on his way to Melbourne. The
newspaper world of the Queensland capital
is not distinguished by good-fellowship, but
on the occasion of the genial Tennyson’s de-
parture rivalry was forgotten and he was wished
God-speed by a trio of editors, a sub-editor and
reporters galore, who presented him with a hand-
some gold chain and locket.
The Toowoomba (Q) Chronicle the other
day reached for the hair of its loathsome contem-
porary, whose ignorance, it remarked, “could only
be excused on the ground of inexperience and want
of knowledge. ” After that we are more than ever
convinced that loss of hair is one of the chief
causes of baldness, and that falling off a roof
frequently arises through a man letting go his
hold and there not being anything to stop him.
Furthermore, we assert that when one man puts
his foot in another man’s eye it is generally owing
to a desire on his part to do it complicated by the
other man’s eye not being shifted out of the way
fast enough.
Woman’s t ufferiog and Belief.
Those languid, tiresome sensations, causing you
to feel scarcely able to be on your feet; that con-
stant drain that is taking from your system all its
former elasticity ; driving the bloom from your
cheeks; that continual strain upon your vital
forces, rendering you irritable and fretful, can
easily be removed by the use of that marvellous
remedy, Dr Soule’s American Hop Hitters.
Irregularities and obstructions of your system are
relieved at once while the special causes of
periodical pain are permanently removed. None
receive so much benefit, and none are so pro-
foundly grateful, and show such an interest, in
recommending Hop Bitters as women.
A Postal Card
I was affected with kidney and urinary
Trouble —
‘ ‘ For twelve years ! ”
After trying all the doctors and patent medi-
cines I could hear of, I used two bottles of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters ;
lam perfectly cared. I keep it
‘ ‘ All the time ” respectfully, B. F. Booth,
Saulsbury, n enn.—May 3, 1885.
Bradford, Pa., May 8, 1885.
It has cured me of several diseases, such as nervousness,
sickness of the stomach, monthly troubles, &c. I have
not seen a sick day in a year - since I took Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters. All my neighbors use them.
Mrs. Fannie Green.
$3,000 Lost.
“ A tour to Europe that cost me §3,000, did me less
good than one bottle of Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters;
they also cured my wife of fifteen years’ nervous weak-
ness, sleeplessness and dyspepsia.”
R. M., Auburn, N.Y.
So., Bloomingvili.k, 0., May 1, ’B6.
Sirs — I have been suffering ten years, and 1 tried your
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters, and it did me more
good than all the doctors.
Miss S. S. Boone.
Baby daved.
We are so thankful to see that our nursing baby was
permanently cured of a dangerous and protracted con-
stipation and irregularity of the bowels by the use of Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters by its mother, which at the
same time restored her to perfect health and strength.
- The Parents, Rochester, N.Y.
83T None genuine without a bunch of green hops
on the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown
in the hottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuffs made to imitate the above.
UCHTNER & CO„
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes' Buildings, Elizabeth street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
EPla.otog'rsipli.ic Req.na.isites.
Instructions in Photography
FREE of CHARGE
■ To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit! —-
AT EITHER
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES and PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER & CO.
Business Announcements.
¥EWTOxN and l a mb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN, 1
CAP,INETMAKERR, UPHOLRTKKERR,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactoky :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
]ARGE STOCK of PIANOFORTES by tIG
most Celebrated Makers.
NEWTON and LAMB.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
N E WTON & LAM B,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
IjllYE POUNDS FIFTEEN SHILLINGS
BEDROOM SUITES. The Economic
Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstaud
with Towel Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable Ydy.
English designs. —Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Wash stand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached ; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NKWTON Y LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
A
USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Ve n y Com i> r. kt k
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lame.
ire
CANVAS FOLDING
VV COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. fid.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS,
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices.
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6dBxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. Gd.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 455. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell'Streets.
A
MERICAN PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
ANYAS FOLDING
CHATRS,
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connerr Streets.'
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
N ARDEN SEATS, 19s. Verandah Chairs.
JC Indian Pong-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
I > ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
I\ ! 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc. ; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
Cr
I c
E CHESTS,
Au Sizes,
from 275.
NEWTON & LAMB.
E x
CEL S I
UPRIGHT
O R
IMPROVED
REFRIGERATORS,
various sizes, from 455.
EASY CHAERS, for Parlour, Library, or Becb
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices.
Newton & Lamb, Importers, ©’©snnell-
street.
EDDINGr, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
' Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street.
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, best
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON k LAMP.


Character by Hand-writing. —Professor Alcott, Graphi-
ologist, will, on receipt of sample and Is. stamps, forward
full clearly defined character of the writer, answer
questions, and recommend the most suitable occupation
without extra charge.—Address, Prof. Hugh Alcott
G.P.0., Sydney.
The City Provident Dispensary, 603 George-street, Brick
field Hill, between LiverpoolandGoulburn streets. Advice
and Medicine, Two Shillings and Sixpence. The Resident
Medical Officer (a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner
and Surgeon, registered in Great Britain, New Zealand,
and by the Medical Board of New South Wales; late of the
Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, and University College
Hospital, London). Sees Patients daily from 9 a.m. to
10 p.m.; Sundays and Holidays 9to 10, Evenings 7to 9.
‘ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Autumn Handicap, run at Canterbury April 28th,
1888. 2000 subs., each 10s. First horse, £400;
second, £200; third, £100; starters £lOO, non-
starters £lOO, divided amongst them. Fifty cash
prizes of £2 each. The Queen’s Birthday Cup
May 24th, 1888. First horse, £1500; second,
£600; third, £300; starters £3OO, non-starters
£3OO, divided amongst them. Subscribers are re
quested to apply early, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes for reply and result. Address,
“Australia,” care of Mr. Hugh Dalveen, Victoria
Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office, George
street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies.
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
©
itH
Sydney, N. S. W., Feb. Ist, 1888.
Marshall Brothets,
Gentlemen, —Not feeling well, I procured some
of Marshall’s ‘ 1 Tonic Nervine,” having been ad-
vised to take it. The proof greatly exceeded my
expectation, and I am now thoroughly convinced
of its grand staying and strengthening properties.
Yours very truly,
Id
Ex-Champion Oarsman of the WorldJ
The Referee
Jack Burke, at latest, was in Adelaide and
luck, having dropped across another “old nn,”
Ike Jewell, who styles himself the “ retired cham-
pion middleweight of Australia.” Burke was
escorted through the Adelaide streets by a band
of brass. Ironical metal!
* * *
Jack Connor Can be matched, for £5OO
a-side, to wrestle, ill Australia, ahy man in the
world, catch-as-catch-can or Graico-Ronian.
Travelling expenses allowed.
* * *
A Football Ambulance Corps is spoken of
in Melbourne.
• # •
The leading aquatic
fixtures in N.Z. is the
champion whaleboat race.
Some years ago one of
the judges questioned
whether the winning
boat complied with the
conditions, remarking,
‘ I’d like to see a craft
like that tackle a
whale.” “ Trot out your
adjective whale,” said
the steeroar of the boat,
“ and if we don’t kill
him we’llfoffitthe prize.”
As the judge had not a
whale on hand to experi-
ment with he waived
his objection.^
• • ••
“Ted” Lee, turfite
and barrister, has died
at Melbourne, after a
long and weary illness.
He was an enthusiastic
sportsman and an honour-
able gentleman who
never said ill of any man
•‘—not even of the pri-
soners whom he was
paid to prosecute. His
generous heart and kindly
nature will be missed by
many a poor pensioner,
and by many a staunch
friend who loved him for
himself alone.
• • *
Sir George Chet-
wynd’s horse Fullarton
won the Epsom City and
Suburban Handicap, but
cable doesn’t say if the
victory created a sensa-
tion. It was in connec-
tion with Fullarton’s in-
explicable “form” dur-
ing last season that the
Earl of Durham brought
certain charges against
Ohetwynd, which charges
constitute the Jockey
Club scandal, shortly to
culminate in an action
for libel. The forfeiture
of Charley Wood’s riding
license was'partly brought
about by Fullarton Is
ecentricities.
• * *
JTThe second and
1000 yard’s event of the
series of Australian
swimming races between
Cavill and Kenny was
won by the former in
14min. 41sec. Kenny
was off-colour and so ill
after the race that he
declined to go on with
the deciding event. Cavill
now poses as the cham-
pion swimmer of Aus-
tralia, and is ready to
defend the title against
all comers.
Great Scott— The Australian Walkist.
• * *
A sham-fight—a Sydney “ scrapping-
match.”
• • «
At the recent Bourke (N.S.W.) meeting,
the hack race went to The Queen, with Dan
O’Connor and Parnell second and third. Great
Scott ! what a reversal of public form !
• •
Mr. Thomas Cook, of Turonville, Scone,
N.S.W., has, it is said, determined to send to
England a shipment of 150 horses to test the
market for the cavalry and coaching stock.
0 0
An idea for Frank Farnell. Out of
£1,700,000 which passed through the totalisator
in Pans last season, £40,000 went to the poor of
the city.
• * •
If Pugilist Meadows can give the Yankee no
better than he gave Sydneyites on Saturday night,
and on so many previous occasions, he may as
well stay at home.
0 *
Strained relations still exist between Queen
Victoria and John L. Sullivan.
000
A four-oared crew of the Toronto R.C.
will compete at Henley regatta in July.
#*o
There were two half-castes in the cham-
pion whaleboat crew who won the £lOO prize at
the Auckland regatta on Jan. 20th, and the third
and fourth boats were steered by half-eastes.
Those who believe in the prowess of Hold Hing-
land on the sea will regret to learn that a crew
from H.M.S. Opal were absolutely last.
* * *
With the exception of Stoddart and W.
H. Thomas, the whole of Lillywhite’s football
team are North of England men. Thomas comes
from Wales.
* * *
Manning won the sword contest, at Bondi,
on Saturday. Casualties : A severe cut over the
knee-cap for Manning, Bevin’s hand pierced clean
through at the root of the forefinger. As neither
man could ride for sour apples, the show was a
shocking farce.
Dear Bulletin, A-I read your comments
on the objects and principles of the “Australian
Natives’ Association” with infinite pleasure.
British born and bred, 1 love this, my adopted
country, the birthplace of lny children, with an
intensity far exceeding that which I, at any time,
felt for iny native land. No Australian can love
Australia more than I do. Few Australians can
possibly be so fully apprised of the advantages
they enjoy, so conscious of the dangers to which
they are exposed by their own apathy and the
unholy alliance between earth-grabbing scoundrels
without and title-hunting traitors within, as I am.
I have endfired the follies, burdens, and miseries
of the older lands, consequently enjoy more fully
the freedom of this, the newer world, therefore I
object strongly to the narrow-mindedness that
prevents me joining' a body whose professed
object is the fostering of national sentiment,
A CASE FOE. MICROBES.
N.S.W. (to Pasteur): “ OOH, I’M SO BAD. TOO MUCH RABBIT IN MY INTERIOR.”
the paving of the way towards the formation
of the “United States of Australia,” while
it admits my son, who possesses not a tithe of my
experience and ability, and is more concerned
about cricket-bats than political or economic
questions. One sentence in your article, only one,
1 object to. In it you state that the “ Australian
Natives’Association ” is the only body “on the
face of this continent which pretends to phrase
that sentiment,” i.e. Australian Nationalism.
This is misleading—l will not use a stronger epi-
thet. Have you forgotten, or if not, why do you so
persistently ignore the Australian Republican
League? ’Tis true it’s president is not a Q.C. ;
’tis true that most of its meetings are held in the
Domain, or at the Queen’s Statue; ’tis true that
none of its members are wealthy, or respectable;
’tis true that its propagandists work is done by
working men among working men; but surely
these are the very things that should
above all _ others recommend it to a jour-
nal professing advanced democratic principles.
I ask you in this matter to be consistent as you
were wont to be. Members of the league have
recently visited other colonies for the pur-
pose of promulgating their views, and have there
received lengthy notices and kindly encourage-
ment from the Press. It is, therefore, all the
more discouraging to find their unselfish, disin-
terested labours so slighted by the paper whom
they regard with love and admiration as the chief
mouthpiece, of the principles they venerate. Con-
temptuous indifference from friends is assuredly
more galling than the loudly-expressed aversion
of foes. —Yours, Gko. Black, Broken Hill,
N.S.W.
Volapiik is a universal language which
nobody speaks.
Seven weeks ago we cut the following tele-
graphic item from the Sydney E. News. We
have been waiting ever since for further develop-
ments, but nothing having been heard up to date
which is calculated to throw light on the circum-
stance in question, we offer it to the public in all
its majestic baldness :
“ London*, February 19:—Mr. Balfour, Chief Secretary
for Ireland, emerged from a meeting of the Cabinet
Council on Saturday, mentally excited. He walkedabout
in the bitter cold dir, hatiess, and with his hands clasped
behind his head.”
The outlines of this picture have been drawn by
' a toaster hand. Details, it is true, are wanting,
blit the impassioned fervour of the affair
and the salient features of the other thing are pre-
sented in a way which is calculated to appeal to
the meanest and most cotomonplace understand-
ing. There had been a Cabinet Council that day,
and the pig-rearing squires who form the bulk of
the Tory Government had been sitting with their
mouths open, in the agonies of an unaccustomed
endeavour to think, while the two or
three dudes who lend tone to the assemblage
had stated that in their—-haw—opinion, donteher-
know, something ought to be—haw—done
to those beastly low Irish fellows. Then
all of a sudden the door opened and Balfour flew
out in such a hurry that he either forgot his hat or
didn’t think it safe to stop to get it, or else some-
body had promised to throw it out of the window
after him, or possibly he had come with the hat
on that somebody else had lost on the last occasion
when they met together and the other man had
foreclosed on it and told him what he thought of
him. Anyhow he had no hat on, and he was
mentally excited. He wasn’t morally astounded
or physically flabbergasted or intellectually
floored ; he was simply staggered in the thinking
organ. And he was so mueh paralysed that he
walked about clinging to his own back, hair, in-
stead of mounting a 200-guinea horse, or getting
into a gilded chariot, or even calling a cab. He
wore the outward aspect of a man who had
been kicked in his tenderest feelings and grassed
on the _ field of human sympathy, and while he
was waiting for the arrival of a gilded flunkey
clad in purple and fine linen with his hat, the
Bennett family took down a few particulars about
him and offered them to the gaze of a soulless,
ignoble public.
Says the London correspondent of the S. M.
Herald :
“ Earl Russell, grandson of the famous Lord John
Russell, took his seat in the House of Lords this week.
Some curiosity has been expressed as to which side the
noble Earl would take in politics. I believe, however, he
will be a Liberal Unionist. Inasmuch as all the land, he
owns is in Ireland it is difficult to see how he could he
otherwise. When Lord John Russell was made a peer
the Duke of Bedford settled an estate of about 3000 acres
in County Meath and 1000 acres in County Louth upon
him. Land in Meath is about the best in Ireland.”
From this it would appear either that the Herald
is deliberately becoming ingenuous, or that it now-
a-days doesn’t know enough to come in out of the
rain. “It is difficult,” &c. Of course it is. Of
course he must be a Unionist! It doesn’t matter
a curse on which side are eternal justice, truth
and right. The idea that an absentee landlord
descended even from Lord J ohn Russell should
be anything but a Coercionist, is too absurd for
even the consideration of a Herald writer. The
moral is plain. Take away the 4000 acres from
his “lordship” and lo ! we shall behold a Hynd-
man, a Henry. George, or a Michael Davitt.
Then, and not till then, will landlords cease to lie
as a class upholders of tyranny.
It is a melancholy fact that Ohinanien
have religious scruples about taking their own
lives.
Mrs. Mary Stoddard is at present holding
an exhibition of her pupils’ work at 283 George-
street, Sydney. The lady is a genuine artist with
a mastery of technique almost unrivalled amongst
the Sydney artists. Her exhibition portraits at
the recent N.S.W. Art Society’s annual show
were amongst the best and most meritorious work
m the hanging-room.
A subscriber to the Bulletin writes to
ie captured one of Messrs. Moss and
Go. s £1 orders attached to a bottle of Wolfe’s
schnapps which he purchased, and, presumably,
swallowed. This circumstance embodies a solemn
warning to teetotallers. The melancholy brother
who draws his beverage from the plmip mav
agitate the handle for ages before any £1 order
will reward his exertions.
Tn Mount Morgan, Queensland has the
greatest of the world’s gold-mines; in Broken
Hill, JN.S. Wales possesses a peerless silver-mine.
So far, each colony has been pre-eminent in its
own speciality, but Queensland is now entering-
vcmB * n le silver-field, and puts before the
N.S.W. public to-day the prospectus of the Hero
.freehold Silver and G. M. Co., which is well
worthy of consideration at the hands of the in-
vesting public. The Hero is the mine a trial of
40 tons of ore from which yielded half-a-ton of
silver.
The Sydney Sabbath Observance Associa-
tion, a trades-union of clergymen and deacons,
have threatened Editor Ellis, of the local Sunday
Times, with an action at law under an ancient
“ Hinglish ” statute, for publishing advertise-
ments relating to Sunday concerts. Mr. Ellis
replies that the other Sydney papers do exactly
the same thing, and that, as the concerts are
authorised by Government and conducted in
places of entertainment licensed by Government,
lie must assume them to be perfectly legal. He
further cheerfully reminds his pious critics that
the so-called “ services ” held in the churches on
Sunday evenings, are nothing but “ Sunday con-
certs, in which paid choristers sing, and paid
parsons recite stolen sermons and read passages
from a sacred book, which their daily lives out-
rage. ”
Mr. E. M. Clements, 111 King-street, New-
town, Sydney, has sent us a copy of “ Clements’Dic-
tionary of Diseases and Family Guide,” a most useful
work of 40 pages, and now in its 70th thousand, which
lie supplies free, on application, to every householder.
The information and recijies contained therein appear
most reliable, and the instructions given for the home
treatment of the different ailments which afflict mankind
are most full and complete. Mr. Clements is also the pro-
prietor and manufacturer of Clements’ Quinine and Iron
Tome, .a phosphated preparation of ferrous salts with
the principal cinehonic alkaloids, a remedy of the
highest value in all debilitating and anaemic diseases,
as it supplies the body with its natural chemical foods,
iron, lime, &c., which are present in quite inadequate
quantities in nearly all foods raised and grown on Austra-
lian soil. Thus it is absolutely necessary for every person
to occasionally supply the animal organisation with its
essential mineral elements by artificial means ; otherwise
sickness, disease and premature death must ensue. Mr.
Clements is also the originator of various other medicinal
preparations well, worth the attention of the suffering
portion of humanity, and it is by the encouragement of
such enterprising local men that Australians will best
serve Australian interests.*


Business Announcements.
cro r
L
zjtiOJsrjyroisrcuojEiS,
MACHINERY MEBCHAJfTS
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. _
#
*
SPECIALITIES i
lavls’ Sewing Machine, Asbestos Fire-proof Faint, Albo Barbon Light
ELECTRO PLATED WARE, CUTLERY, TOOLS,
GAS COOKING STOVES i-LEONIS FLETCHER'S, JEANS & WALKER'S,
BRADFORD'S WASHING-MACHINES, Jto., See,
YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL RISKS!!
Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
or tifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
the best aperient for children.
BY TAKING
’$ FLO
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
® JC O H TO ALL OTHES
Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c,, accompanying each bottle).
ONLY KRUSE’S^
In Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6d. each.
Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS.. Ltd.
3*
A POSITIVE CURE
for even form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
fROM
Scrofula on Necm*
to SCROFULA!
®jHOKB, Humiliating Krup-
t' ! nV, ti W? or e« * Q d Burning Skin Torture*,
H y » *pecie* of Itching,
V)n f W* Scrofulous, and Syphi-
Skin, and Scalp, with
NtS'ly . n °y t 0 old a 8 e > are cured by
vsicKjMcjir**T, the new Blood Purifier,
1 * W''-J Uf * * anrt A anc CtmcußA Soi" fl *“
Beautifler*, externally.
J Skin Diseases,
_ „ •«»?*> *nr < rJ cen, ’»Washerwoman’* Itch,
Kh’boa*’ lrritation* peculiar
KsVr?* j£®®% relieved by a warm bath
great 1 * o? d ft single application of
vda} ® kln Cure This repeated
\ i in, y <jv, {e of CtmeußA Resolvent,
Oth«>. ® uiseases or the c
—r means absolutely fail
aft
bef
k
‘•l!,
i»l*
ng Diseases of the Skin and
ar Work on the Skin,
wrapped about the Re-
hundred Testimonials, sol-
ry • '"t 0 ?® the British Consul, which
A have ‘
been a terrible sufferer
iX>C^eftn e^e 9 of the Skin and Blood;
V?H!.t h| »v} la Bhum!! Un ? übli ® P lac , ea by reason
best phy
, and got
ivSoCl'-'u r„, ' v " c Lu'nuuai Remedies,
a nd left my skin and blood
to Ouf„ o ®nd for* our sixty-four page
. ® “kin and Blood Diseases,”
V *'s A t ' l4 ' K CONSIONEKB;
New Month Wslo*
CUTICURA RESOLVES, , the new Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonooa
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henc*
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Meaicina,
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors.
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin,
Cuticura Soap an exquisite Skin Beautifies 1
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin,
Cuticura Kennedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or 1 any other mineral or vege-
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
Sure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
[assachusetts.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
CUUk’spsta throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
iSejTa'.jd Cuticura, 60 cents por box, large boxes,
SI.W. Outicura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing if cap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared bt in
Potter OTBcEdismlnil Go.. Roatea. 1T.E.8.
V
\
v ' v
‘V
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Palo
Ale.
HLDX JSTBTX EiG-JEsL,
K, OUNYNGHAMfC, Bond-street, Sydney,
In balk
and case,
B@sb BEER
In the Market,
drawn by all
leading Hotels.
Business Announcements.
M
O N U M B N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Railingß.
Designs and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUNNINGHAM,
MARCtARET-STREET, WYNYARD-SQUABJE, SYDNEY.
a mmm medicine,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
cjLa
PATENT
IS
w
P ILLS
*
m
&
+s
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings oi
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams
and sill nervous and trem
bling sensations, &c. Tht
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
ta no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
aa a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about 7 all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system,, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bcscuam’s
Codqu Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short tims be re-
moved.
Caution. —The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Bkkchau’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies. . f 'Zgf .
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
RO BER T . BU.TC H E R & CO.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out of
i Bond, at LOWEST RATES; -
MANUFACTURING HATTFRS
GEORGE STREET
S Y D N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSNAPES.
And at QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £1,000,000
Reserve Fund ' 500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred ! t. .) ’ _ *
Drafts issued and Bills cc’lected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
> N. F. GIBLH Acting Manager.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
263 to 269 Kent-street,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK (or
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva,
A, MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale,
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s Extra Stout.
Cl FIRST QUALITY.
i
Bass’s Pale Ale.
T~ SOLE PURVEYORS to the
| i COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON,
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. BalcMn, Johnson & Co.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
CSYps
KiWuniHim egawiaem.
WE can recommend the Imperial Hair
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane,
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address—
Temple Building, George-street (six doors front
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D* RIDCE’S
FOOD
Fen INFANTS «m INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
4:ui is now being introduced Into th«
Colonies.
£ very Storekeeper should get
•9 every wise mother will certainly;'
use it.
PILRIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON. ENGLAND,
MA, BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
ANO ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
ItPARCO ONLY BY <?
GENUINE SODA WATER.
THE!
Sfiiii toil Water Co.,
15 CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Perfect Purity Guaranteed.
•ir«Ri lEPOIU AfTPI
ifrpj rriahtta. j
nlm nanA
Boyd.’* Board Startr did thio,
!and urt ll doit on either bald
hood or bare /ace Force*
heavy Uouttache in from 3 to
4 week* and never/ail*, W/fiOQ 1
young men d.rcady wear full
€opyrtghM.
beards, having used Ito Spkte. t Vo injury, tartly applied, err tax*
In effect. Packet «, 1«. Sd. each, 3 for 3s. 00., b<w< paid, sent unde?
tover, fret from observation Address, iframkßjmglM, Sole Agent,
s.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin,
296 PITT STREET.
MeirijiissS'
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
'Three Gold Medals—
PARIS,IB7B, CALCUTTA,IBB4,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOTTOTTET
ESS. BOUQUET I WOOD VIOLET
TREVOL 1 CHYPRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled for their delightful and lasting odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOItETTE DE LONORES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, apdan exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors
Of all Dealer*, and of the Manufacturen—
J & E. ATKINSON,
24, Qlb Bond Street, London.
a. Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on“ Golden
fcx Lyre.” A


9tOYAJLjnWI|||
*4KIH c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure,
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Pewder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal B a kino
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Wales.
P. R. LARKIN,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
WINE & SPIRIT MERGHANT AND IMPORTER.
The Fauna XI Cnee of ASSORTED MS and SPIRITS
CONTAINS
3 Bottles BRANDY
1 Bottle JAMAICA RUM
1 Bottle PORT WINE
3 Bottles WHISKY
1 Bottle WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
1 Bottle SHERRY WINE
7 Bottles LOWNDES’ RUM
1 Bottle OLD TOM
Securely Packed and Delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt of £3.
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
PICE DP WILES’ HOTEL, corner of Deorge mi Dip Streets.
CENTENNIAL SELECT BAR, 780 George Street.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
JSTEJVT
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VEM, VIDI, riCL
For Artistic Posing and n fSEoy,
combining softness and
Photographs oi
com of
CHAHLEMONr 4
> ROYAL ABC*”*;
m STAND PR&EMINB^^-^
nir
HK WONDER
COLEMANEAND^g
Pure Volatile Eucaly p
itt SrttT.w
SAFE CUBE. Onr Ijjj
stands without a rival f Mna .flde^jf
Bad Eyes. We have nwjßjga. Sgjl
than any medicine to ** prl<#° $
address on receipt of stoinp 39 6d. ,
and 2s. 6d; Ointment, 2s- an MlX g, V<
TT Qnhiirbs. W.
$
Sydney and Suburbs, W
Moore Park, Syoney
T
HE SCIB»«J,«rt
Br w - Kso »d «*®*j
A Book for Young and QV *
bound in cloth, and co 6d* 4
lions. Price, post paA ■ J g U oA\
sample free. Those su , *ljfJ
haustion and Diseases sh ■ cto r 'm
valuable work. Addres • g^Ke
Post Office Chambers, corner
streets, Melbourne, vie.
, pun®'
A Blessing in| very _
rOLLOWAY’S pll £f the
There is not a of ant^ an a
aline virtues of these g« r '“ er9 ; W'M
ognised. . Fullest
very disease If YOU
actured only at 78 Nbw O on th® „
ihasers should look to the I>» , gtree t, V*
f the address is not 523 Ox
purious.
THIS XD-A-TT.
O-^EJ-AJX
STATIONERY, ROOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Stuffing reductions for a limited period, for C<wfc only, in oOheeqnenee of the Promisee haring been sold and great alteration* pending.
COUNTRY ORDKftS, WITH RNMITTANCSS. WILL RKCBIVB PROMPT ATTENTION. * M
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREE^
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plated Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
Brass and Bell F Minding, Finishing, Art Metal Wprk, Conjersmithlng, Blaoksmlthing. Plumbing,
Gasfltting, Tank and G tjder Building, Electric and Pnetunatto Bell-fitting, of every description.
BOULTONS “FLUSH," “VALVE.” and “ PAN "fCLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &e.
Bole Agents foe Verity Bros., Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Pan Cowls, <Sas Fires, Meters,
Warmers, Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Price on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
91 PITT
SIX>NE y '
B
ARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer ACrating, Soda-water, Wine and
oKd
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing
Waters? a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. ~g .
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawfor WJ
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventitive of fustiness. 'f
family use; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or wine jce. 7! gt(
invaluable little machine wall be found a perfect boon in country districts IP
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extract, Sah c !f , jjop
supplied for making Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ginger »■
lllustrated Catalogue Post Free on Application. ■
ear Publishing Office of “ THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, * t
WINE AND SPIRIT TRADE REVIEW.” Specimen Copies r
■0 e ’
TaylorfirO"
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer & Peal Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL REMEDIES
TESTIMONIALS.
the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONKS PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an in Valuable cure. See testimonials
jmcoist^s
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
MOJSTBC’S
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole a gents ■
Mathey, Nathan & Co,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
AND
44 Little Coli.ins Street East, Melbourne.
db. J-
L.R.C.P., Edin., JL '- B . ,C, fnd^ f Vj
registered in Great Britain, * Ift
late surgeon to H.R.H, I >ri h 0 *’
Resident Medical Officer to
London, specialist (or the tre
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter,
charge, at Edgar House, ™
Hunter-street Sydney.
D
R.
R I 0
Send for large Bound ® p r jc®'
oo^
for all Nervous Diseases; *
age, 6d. in stamps. Cons u o sc e
and the Doctor will tell yo , V. e9 g-'
case is curable or not. Ado
DR. RICO*,V,
7 SPRING
4-ifl^
WIMBTF.R
CON*
n
pot
Country
“Evening News.’ \ddr®*®’j}o ;
of George ' dams. Tattersan J
sons making applications f°
to register their etters to
also enclose two addressed 9 _\ju ”
for reply and the other for r ,
Commercial Hotel, Gy^P 1^
rHE above is one of f
Sq' tatting Hotels 111
asonable. Sample room
Superior accommodation-
noM
$
T. P. WIESENEK,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, Optician and Scientific Instrument
The Only Place in the Col my where Goods in this line are Manufactured by Steam 1
180 WT), the lidm'iria’ H va at 334 <3-33 3G-S ST El 3ST has sprang Into existence and grown to ita present dimension and importance, “at the edge of the forest,"
Ufa ail uiad’n'iad br 0.1 World Gom letiolon, The M iin Support has bssn a favourable Pabllo Opinion, which has grown with the establishment. The Foundation
n yaarj ago, on Ohs sand priaolplas of P FIGURES, MDOffißdr® PR JFIT3, FIXSD PR(Cffi3 and CONSTA.NT PBR3OSTAL SUPERVISION. ,tffrd
T. F. W.’s intloona ait'p.srssnit.knowledge of ths homa markeosaf Kigland, Francs an! Germany (bisides being a Gash Buyer), gives him advantages possessed by few
and materials fa- thsir mnafaclnrs in S/dney are landed here without the twa, three, or more middlemen's profits. The latest and best variety in Watches, Jewellery, Spectacles,.
Field Glasses, Levels, Theodolites, etc. Special Goods made to Order at the Import Depot and Steam Factory of
T . IF 1 * W IHSHNB E, 334 G B O R G- B STBEIBT, S 3 ~ST 13 IST 3±!
IT .
