

KM K NTS’
/
t
i
TONIC
tonic
™ V RESTORATIVE prepared on a
o } Cl P e . * n Australia, and acts in the only
HJia i k:. cunnor rlioooco ennnlTTinrY o Mrif.Tl
INf
A IIA <jlUo II alldj cAIIU ciC I/O 111 ullt/ \J±lxy
' filler 1 C^ r^ disease by supplying the blood with
? c * e Hcv C !°. < *’ I ron j Lime, Manganese, Potassium,
n r ,“» uimc, ma,iigau^ c , X uwaooium,
[^ e ’dig e w b 10 b m the vital fluid is the cause of 90
ec l'iate ( eases . a fLcting mankind in Australasia, owing
quantities of these salts in Australian food
CLEMENTS’ TONIC
does not blacken the teeth or injure the stomach, nor derange
the digestive organs; it contains IRON in its most oxidizable
form, and is the only Tonic in which this form of Iron
is used. This metal is not of the least use in medicine unless
readily oxidized, as all other forms pass from the system un-
changed, and without the' patient deriving the least benefit, as
no iron is assimilated. Ha'e no other
and Delicate Females it is Invaluable
, E *IEITS’ TONIS
Radically cures
®IA, NERVOUSNESS,
op Energy ’ loss of vgor,
„ b d EBILITY & EXHAUSTION,
a ® tn °*s, Impaired Vitality,
" I ®ss of Blood, &c., &c.
CLEMENTS’ TONIC
INCREASES THE APPETITE,
Invigorates the Stomach,
Enriches the Blood, Assists Digestion,
Strengthens the Nerves, Muscles and Bones.
Is the best Brain & Nerve Food.
: WASHINGTON H. SOUL, and all CHEMISTS. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS!
By
PATENT MEDICINE DEALERS EVERYWHERE!
Throughout Australasia Wherever it is not On Sale. Liberal Terms.
POI3
2s. Gd. ajid 4s. Gd. per bottle, packed free and forwarded by
ELEMENTS, Chemist, Newtown, Sydney.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
AROMAS BROS.
n
’ ssro
teaa i
lugrrjr.aiTKiix. i^i,i.-nnrui.. ; Jiffium
•mm
Ua
h£a9 6mc£ a factory, vcwtqwn
wmx
teuOtnSrsvP/
fat ACM
SffWfRS
BRANCH. ££QRG£ $Z SYjJigY
OOLLINS-PLAGE, COLLIN3-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
Ssmfort to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
TO
*SONS
338
*
ky?
3G&
o
o
0
SIR ROGER
M
DIXSONS
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
CONTRACTING CARRIERS,
FORWARDING AGENTS.
Head Office i
TOWNSVILLE, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
t«40" UnOHOT AGENCY,
GENERAL INFORMATION OFFICE, fwfi?
Missing Friends searched for,
Islloltors and others supplied with reliable
Information. .
19 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
IUBADY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN,
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. KUda, cure Soiatica,
iiiunbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, De-
gression of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effects,
fhe curative properties of these Hot Baths are
Simply marvallous. Fitted frith Marble Baths.
MOULTON'S PAIN PAlls'?
CURES ALL PAIN*
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
3PRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, See.,
and taken internally cures DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all, other
Internal aches and pains.
sold everyv/
M. fIOUITOH, SOLI PRCWHETOB.
AND- SVCNEY;
WANTED, Files of The Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
office.
Business Announcements.
The remington type-writer,
E3
Saves labour, stationeiy, and time, writing muoh [faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to leu than
one-half the spaoe occupied by pen writing. Beantifnl
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-preu.
Bold wholesale and retail by the sole agents,
IMRAY & CO.
410 Rent-street.
RM. RILEY
* (late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
BnslnesB Agency Office,
42 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absoonders and wife deserters traced, and all kinds ol
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained lti
divorce, libel, fraud, and inoendlary cases, for the legal pro-
fession and others. Copies of wills, certificates of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. From B. M. B.'s long experience
in the Deteotive Force of New South Wales, Victoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to oonduct all inquiries with caution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his care.
[■rr PRESCRIPTIONS are bo
■ liCI- be found In the “ LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cnre of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &0. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Sbamps. Address —
S. WARD & CO.,
Sydney Pharmacy,
76 Hunber-streeb, Sydney,
E CAN RECOMMEND
B. EUfSEHE’S
(From Paris)
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
Note the Address —
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office-—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
k IOTEEftIBV BEUED?
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tio]
Doloretjx, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days ?
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 65., and 10b.
CURB FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medioal
Faoulty to be the safest and best manufactured,
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. 1. BOSS, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
631 G eorge-atreet, only,:
Business Announcements.
McLEAN |BROS.,! BIGG & CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
512 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sir
o
<0
IRONMONGERS
512 X
o
•osb ‘-oas ‘bskibovto onihsvm. s,aaoMvaa
B.airaivj& a* Bnvxt BaHHoiaafl sxtioan— * bhaoxs ONiaooa bvb
‘S'looi ‘s.aBTM.aQ ‘aayM. aaivTa-oaiOKTS
YS.WV\.W.V\ VS'-WM v ‘\\\VV.«\ \VW\O.V\-V\Jl\A 'W)C[(V9«V.%S\HA% .«VMa
INSURE YOUR HEALTH!
AGAINST ALL R lß,v
BY TAKING
ROSE'S FLUID
, he $e& e
II Oools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of
THE BEST APERIENT FOR CHILDREN.
NUMEROUS GOLD MEDALS.
SUPERIOR TO ALL O®
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, dtc„ accompanying
bott^'
TJSO&'
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d.. and 3s. 6<l e ®
TAKE ONLY KR
-—: o i
Wholesale Agents, Messrs. ELLIOTT
UcMma on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
an
y
*5
roftu*
PIMPLES to SOR
ISFIGURIiTO HUMORS, Humiliating Krup-
tionn, Itching and Burning Skin Torture*,
itathsomc Sore*, and every specie* 'of Itching,
Only, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
ffitie Diseases off the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
SfOM of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Outiouba Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
O&ternally, and Outiouba and Outiouba Soap, the
Qir®»S Skin Cure* and Be&utifiers, externally.,
Etching and Burning Skin Disease*,
Stoker*', Barber*’, Grocer*’, washerwoman’s Itch,
Stohing Pile*, and Delicate Irritation* pecu‘
Os both *exe*, instantly relieved by a warm bath
With Outiouba Soap and a single application 1 of
Ootiouba, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
Sadly, with three doae* of Outiouba Resolvent,
Will speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Q®adp 0 when all other means absolutely fail.
) A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
OOLvent, Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
oaanly sworn to before the British Consul, which
Bttpeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
fl®ir years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
Slave been obliged to shun puDlic places by reason
@f my disfiguring humors; have had the best phy
Olcians; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
ao relief until I used the Outiouba Remedies,
which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
30 pare a* a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
fe®ok s M How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases.”
Australian Consignees,
X. Towns & Co, New South Wales-,
Cottouka resolve® **
Her, Diuretic, and Ape**® o J
and Perspiration of all T®P'
Element*, and thus removes
it cures speedily, permanent 1 ?!
Outicura. the Gbsa*
Jelly for external use), - £
Inflammation, clears the Sk® r)e gd f ~
Sores, and Dandruff, de ® tr ,sf sC bar®c-
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Pj® the
stores the Hair, and beautifies *
(Cm
Untlcnnt Soap, an
and Toilet Requisite, /
indispensable in treating jjeab
mors, Skin Blemishea,
burn, and Rough, Ohapped^^-^
Juticurs, Bemedies aje f [( ,e
Purifiers and Skin Beautifl&r® f ,yv
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any jar* <s®
table poison whatsoever.. “ ,„t.« v 1
pure, by the Analytical
Massachusetts,
For Sale by all retaii l£si W
druggists throughout Australia- bO* c ify »
Zealand, Outicuba, 60 centsi P Gf <(f
-- tKA Soap, 25 0 „/
cents i M
JcsO^
$l.‘«K) i Octicuka Soap, 25
ing Soap, 16
per bottle, -
jFbxpa**®
Potter Dr a* * Chemical
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL,
THE above Hotel has unsurpassed accommodation for families and ot i o g^ e
spare no pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study.
" Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tables.
Hall.
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND LOOSE
BOX# S
J. J. FALLOHy


The Bulletin
Vol. 9-No. 438
SATURDAY, JUNE 23 1888.
Price, 6d„
Payment of Members.
“Ar Henry Parkes vehemently opposes the proposal to pay members of the N.S.W. Parliament. —Daily Tape .


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—ivhich yon may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted! regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper;
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £1 0 A
Half-yearly ... ... 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” ivill return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
toe are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
ihVSiaUetui.
SATURDAY, JUNE 23, 1888.
“Padding the Gallows.”
Tub Anglo-Saxon race is strong to coarse-
ness. It errs not on the side of what advo-
cates of Draconic laws term “maudlin
humanitarianism.” It is vigorous to excess.
It is fond of sports variegated with contu-
sions ; it indulges in pastimes prankt and
painted with human blood. Ids laughter
breaks out in wounds ; its wit finds expres-
sion in a blow from a bludgeon ; its heroism
i 3 a thing compounded of sword-thrusts,
shrieks, and death-agony. The English
people are the posterity of a rude race whose
blunted senses, coarse habits, and vigorous
frames made them the terror of a past age.
“ Lord,” says an ancient litany, “ deliver us
from the fury of the Jutes!’ Our early
literature is a wolf-howl of carnage in a
weird night of slaughter. The national
forum is built on the site erstwhile held by
the national shambles. The daughter of the
Norseman who scornfully reproached her lover
with “seldom having provided the wolves
with hot meat, with never having seen for
the whole autumn a raven croaking over the
carnage,” is a type which duly represents
a spirit on too many occasions dominating
our laws. British justice is too often only
satisfied when the response comes in the
words of the young Jarl, “ I have marched
with my bloody sword, and the raven has
followed me. Furiously we fought, the fire
passed over the dwellings of men ; we have
sent to sleep in blood those who kept the
gates.” English literature is saturated with
this love of coarseness, this revelling in
bruises. English poetry is disfigured with
terms borrowed from the contest of the pan-
cratium. Byron likens the many-tinted
rainbow to the hues of a black-eye. The
winner in a game of tip-staff was he who first
drew blood. Our feted hero is he of the
broadest chest, the biggest biceps, and the
most ponderous fist. Of those whom we de-
light to honour the pugilist holds first place.
The individual John Bull is called the
Tipton Slasher.
* * *
British law is savage and revengeful. It
is not just, because it seeks not so much to
punish as to deter. The criminal bears, be-
sides his own, the weight of the possible sins
of futurity. The Englishman is not scien-
tific, and experience teaches him nothing.
He makes the mistake of supposing that the
nation with the bloodiest code is the most
righteous, and he goes on blunderingly add-
ing law upon law, piling the Ossa of punish-
ment upon the Felion of offence, with a
vague notion of scaling the walls of heaven
in time, and mounting the throne of eternal
justice. Blind to facts, oblivious to the
statistics of crime and the operation of the
ensanguined Jaws of the past, pitiably ignorant
of the rules which regulate the multi-
farious acts of humanity, he seeks to
make a nation moral through fear, and
to frighten crime with the grisly apparition
of the gallows. Whilst the rest of Europe
is marching forward, he turns his back to the
rising sun, gazes fondly into the darkneES of
mediieval hugs to his breast the gyves
and torture and death-sweat of a gruesome
yesterday, and regrets the thumb screw and
the Spanish-boot, the pillory and the stocks,
the cat and the “jailer’s daughter,” the rack,
tie boiling lead, the auto da fe and thepeme
forte et (here of a bygone age. He forgets
that crime keeps pace with punishment
that they run in parallel lines ; that when
men were barged for stealing sheep, f >
robbing a shop to the amount of 7s 6d., o
a dwelling-house to the amount of 25 5., fo
highway r.-bbery and for forgery, thA
offences b.came heroic and put on the gar
of virtue. Women were once done to deat
by the dozen for pissing counteifeit £.
notes, and it was only when notes to tha
amount were abolished, and by Act of Par
liament declared to be an illegal tender—an
achievement wl. ich should make the memor
of George Cruickshank immortal—-that th
oftence and the consequent strangulation
d sappeared.
* * *
The Briton hangs lovingly to the rope anc
frantically resists every attempt to substitute
any other mode of taking a criminal’s life
The American people, whose British blooc
has been clarified somewhat by admixture
have resolved to kill by the electric sparl
aid to save the community the brutalising
ditai's that accompany nearly every hanging
Hereat the voice of the Australian press is
raised in querulous remonstrance, and much
twaddle is written in favour of our earlies
institution. The abolition of the gallows
appears too much like a vote of censure
passed by America upon the civilisation
which sailed from England in a convict-ship,
depending from a tie-beam. Australia is
annoyed at a reproach cast upon a national
gibbet and rises eagerly to point out the ad-
vantages of being throttled. The Sydney
Horning Hecald considers that a change n
the mode of slaughter means a “ slinking < i
moral responsibility,” and proceeds, in°the
name of Justice, to justify punishment for
prospective crime. True to its British in-
stinct, it goes back to the days that were
dark and brutal ; to the countries where the
air was tainted with the smell of blood ai d
the rotting of carcases swinging in irons by
the roadside ; to the nights when the travel-
ler was startled by the flight of can ion-
crows disturbed in an unholy banquet; and
when he was chilled by the screwping of the
bolts in the gibbet, from which oscillated an
eerie thing once bearing the form of man,
loving and * laughing and suffering like
the rest of his race. The Herald
fills a column with malodorous terms.
It chants the sweetness and light of
the “ time the heads of traitors were set
on pikes, and placed upon the city walls.”
Tt yearns over the agony of the victim,
because it is calculated “ to strike terror into
the hearts of evil-doers.” It recommends to
brutal natures a punishment which should
suggest the thought of “hanging like a dog,”
and advances, in its isolated fashion of argu-
ing, that “to brutal natures brutal methods
appeal,” as if law dealt only with one section
of mankind, and not with all men.
* * *
The Armidale Chronicle goes further.
Not only should men be hanged ; they
should be hanged publicly, and every goed
man should attend the exhibition of a sinner
being done to death and much rejoice
thereat, in somewhat similar a fashion as
that in which Jonathan Edwards would
look out of heaven from his throne in glory,
and witness, with gladness unutterable, the
spectacle of hi 3 own babes being carried off
by the fiends to suffer the torments of eter-
nal damnation. These utterances would be
very amusing, were they not so revolting.
There is a grim humour in the supposition
that the hempen bogel acts as a deterrent.
If it does, why should not the Government
make every use of the spectacle, as the
Armidale paper suggests ? It would, accord-
ing to the newspaper argument, impress the
masses with the awfulness of the punish-
ment that waits upon the commission
of crime, and stalks a deed of blood
like the vengeful Nemesis of the
Ancients. But, unfortunately, facts are
against such a conclusion. Public execu-
tions have been found to encourage 'crime
rather than to discourage it. Brutalising
and ghastly familiarity with violent death
taught men the insignificance of life in the
eye of the law—a lesson they learned all too
readily. Familiarity breeds contempt; so
public executions were abolished. Com-
menting upon the Preller murder, the
Sydney Daily Telegraph delivered an
opinion upon the dilatoriness of American
\ engeance. Here jis a trijde combination.
The S.M. Herald says that the criminal
must be hanged ; the Armidale Chronicle
says that he must be hanged in public ; the
Sydney D.T. says that he must be hanged
quickly. Hurry up before the sentence has
cooled, and be strangled while the judge is
warm to his work, and while public feeling is
bubbling up above boiling point! By this
sign shall we conquer, and latter-day Chris-
tianity lifts high a gibbet in the morning
glory of the New Year’s sun, from which
depend four struggling boyish figures, kick-
ing away their young lives there while the
curious gape and drink brandy to keep their
nerves braced ! No matter if it be found
afterwards that the victims may be innocent!
To dally is to cheat the gallows-tree of its
fiuit and the hangman of his fees ! Strangle
them quickly lest they grow virtuous, for of
such is the Kingdom of Heaven—when
looked at through Nineteenth Century spec-
tacle s !
* * •
New South Wales is crusted o’er with the
red-hued traditions of her convict past. But
the chorus of wailing over the departing
gallows is swelled by a stranger-voice from a
somewhat freer land. There comes a cry
from Melbourne charged with sorrow, and
the cry is the cry of a pulpit which
homilises through the columns of a broad-
sheet. The Melbourne Daily Telegraph
holds high its sacred brow like the Pharisee
in the parable, and thanks Heaven that it is
not as other people are. Deeply impressed
with the gravity of its own righteousness, it
unctuously remaiks :
“Science, it seem?, is to be employed to gild—or
I'ither ’.o pid and make comfortable—the very gallows.”
Latter-day Christianity has padded the
Cross, and gilt the nails, and spread a
carpet of plush around Calvary. It has
varnished the asperities of penance and
asphalted the road to Paradise. It asso-
ciates with the rulers of the earth and sits
amidst the magnates of Babylon. It feasts
with kings, and banquets in palaces with tet-
rarohs and exarchs who govern in high places.
The Saviour of men is no longer sought in a
manger. His name is now borrowed and
affixed to the directory of a sacerdotal bank-
ing establishment run exclusively on com-
mercial principles. Religion of to-day smacks
of Paphian luxury*. Enter tli9 groined and
pillared aisle, survey the fretted roof, the
vestments of the priests, the gold and silver
appointments, the many-coloured images,
the holy-tinted radiance, the dim, religious
light, the' costly gilding, the stained-glass
windows, the carven altar, the opera-like
choristers in their theatrical costumes, the
beautifully-painted celestial scenery, and the
deliriously lovely ensemble of the place ;
listen to the voluptuous swell of the organ
and the sweet -chanting of the white-robed
boys, and then ask yourself if this is the
faith of the simple Nazarene ! Yet such is
the outward husk of the creed of those who
find religious solace in the columns of the
Melbou ue Daily Telegraph.
• # *
All men are potential criminals, yet are
we ever hearing the voice that proclaims
with parsonical intonation its own self-
righteousness and dooms all others to the
fire chat burns unquenchable. Christ, in
his simple Communism, offended the Phari-
sees of his generation by eating with publi-
cans and sinners. “ I will have mercy and
not sacrifice,” He said, and “Judge not,
that ye be not judged. ” The Christianity of
the present is different. It pads the Cross
and spreads its kneeling-cushions on the
Mount of Olives. When the upright and
peifeet man of this Nineteen!h Century
doeth an alms, he sounds,the trumpet before
him that he may have open glory of men.
He -is clad in broadcloth and carries his
cross of 18ct gold—upon his watch-chain.
He exclaims not with the publican, God
be merciful to me a sinner !” or with good
old Richard Baxter upon seeing a criminal
taken away in a cart to be hanged, “There,
but for the grace of God, goes Richard
Baxter !” The perfect man of to-day longs
for the boiling oil of Henry Vll. ’s time, and
denounces any attempt to realise the mean-
ing of mercy as weakness—“a desire to
spare ourselves.” The salt of the earth has
lost its savour, and is henceforth good for
nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden
under foot of men. If the Christian believes
in Christianity, he must believe the recorded
acts of Christ as contained in the New Tes-
tament, the written basis of his alleged faith,
and there it is said that when men possessed
with devils came to the gentlest mortal that
ever drew breath on earth. He did not hang
them—He healed them ! Insanity lies at
the root of most deeds of blood, and insanity
is punished by strangulation. Men are
hanged nowadays for having a devil!
* • *
The Melbourne D.T. concludes its latest
effort at re-stuffing the worn padding of the
Cross with these words :
“ We venture to think it will be many a day before we
shall invite the lightning to turn hangman for us, and
borrow from Nev York it 3 electrical chair with its fatal
button.”
Alas for humanity in Australia, we fear so !
Our population has in it too much yet of
the old brutal leaven of the past. Not yet
have other s >fter and more kindly, less
coarse-fibred nations given us their meed of
refining influences. But the fact is sadden-
ing ; nay, it is horrible. The judicial garotte
presses hard on the carotid of the nascent
century. Eor several hundred years has the
ghastly effigy, with consummate presumption
donning the name and attributes of a benefi-
cent civilisation, stalked over the face of the
earth, with all the hideous paraphernalia of
torture-chamber and charnel-house in at-
tendance, and we cannot expect to rid our-
selves of it in a moment. It has masquer-
aded in different disguises and uttered the
shibboleth of various systems, but under
whatever name, its nature never varies. It
is founded on error, on caste-interests, on
the falsehood of private property in land,
and on the supposed isolation of the indi-
vidual. Whether supported by Roman
headsman or British hangman, its existence
is only an experiment whose issue is always a
failure. Every gaol in the land is a monu-
ment to social wrong, a sign of the war
between enlightened power and degraded
ignorance, a prophecy in stone of endless
woe and human sorrow as long as such a
civilisation endures. We shirk our respon-
sibilities. We build new gaols and erect
more gibbets. In a stupid and illogical
way we regard the demand for mercy as
synonymous with sympathy with crime.
Yet, notwithstanding, the world grows daily
more merciful. Sometime at the dawn of a
more scientific era we shall seek to attack
crime from the inside and not from the out-
side. Its germ is in every mind and only
awaits the conditional concomitants to ap-
pear on the surface, and it is with the con
ditions that produce the manifestation of
crime Society will one day have to deal.
* *
The gallows must go ! It must be con-
signed to the limbo of the past, with the rack
and the thumbscrew, the block and the
faggot. Notwitliitanding the unholy influ"
ence of the daily press, men grow slowly
less brutal, less blood-thirsty, than they
were in the days of gibbetting for steal-
ing a sheep. Centuries of culture are
slowly making themselves felt, and when
every man realises that he ha 3 in his own
nature the germs of all human action and all
human emotion, he will fathom the deep
meaning of that self-accusation that finds
utterance in the phrase “ chief of sinners,”
and he will strive to set forth in his dealings
with his fellow-men those simple and beauti-
ful virtues which are the characteristics of
primitive Christianity.
Finance and Trade in New South Wales.
Business languishes in New South Wales. A wave
of depression sweeps across the colony. Everything
is stagnant, and gro wing more stagnant still. Such
is the verdict of the commercial articles of the
Sydney jdaily press. Trade is hopelessly gasping
at death’s door. Busin°ss men scowl and grumble
at the inevitable standstill. And yet, clinging
hard and fast to the proverbial straw of the
drowning man, Sydney importers till now have
elected to hold on tight to the played-out and
hopelessly British principle of lending a helping
hand to every country but their own. Forsooth,
it pays them, and pays them right well. But if,
after the wonderful season of 1887, almost unpre-
cedented within the memory of the “oldest in-
habitant,” 1888 is the dismal commercial fizzle it
is now admitted thus far to be, what is to be the
lot of 1889, when, owing to the long six months’
spell of drought, the full effects of which have yet
to be felt, grass and grain and all pastoral pros-
pects are equal sufferers? We have all of us
to 3 green a recollection of the Falstaffian bounty
promised the people of New South Wales in trade
matters under the administration of Pakkes and
Cobdenism, when that unfortunate country was
predicted to be on the road to eternal milk and
honey. Yet, notwithstanding the sweet voice of
the Cobdenite, the daily papers smite their
Foreign-trade breasts in despair and moan always
that there is “ nothing doing in the import
markets.” Of course there is not. Whoever
supposed for a moment there would be ? Even a
2a million loan fails to help the country over the
stile, or bo steer it clear of the übiquitous ditch of
semi-insolvency. Could it be otherwise when a
nation sets up an ever-bankrupt premier as an
idol to be bowed down to on questions of political
economy and worships him as a perennial authority
on finance ? Yet there is one way out of the
difficulty. Let the afflicted commercial com-
munity go the whole length of its tether, and, as
it grovels at the feet of Sir Foreign-trader
Pakkes, follow also his example, and by
acting up to his ideas of commercial morality,
make both ends meet.
* *
The worst is yet to come ! Wars and rumours
of wars must end in a terrible cataclysm sooner or
later. Then, when the trouble comes, what sort
of a position will Sydney business men find them-
selves in ? With all their eggs figuratively
in one basket, with all their faith, as
religiously pinned to pastoral interests
only, „, at >«. on the cards if a general
European war srnuT u s the wool market to atoms ?
Why, squatters, hang’ng on as they are by the
skin of their com mere d teeth, and only barely
existing- under the ' et-nursing of New South
Wales financial insinuations, would be sent sky-
ward higher than a kite ! The banks, too, with
waggon-loads of unpledgeable securities on their
hands, would have to deny merchants all ordi-
nary business accommodation. Meanwhile im-
porters would be saddled with War-freights
and war-risks, which would also add a heavy
burden on to the first cost of all imported
stuff. One good result might, however, accrue
therefrom. It could not but drive home to the
hearts of the masses the solid fact that it was
about time Australians in general, and the people
of JNew South Wales in particular, began to pro-
duce something for themselves, and not, as here-
tofore, be content to depend altogether on foreign
- . “ Perhaps,” someone may interject,
V ictoria would take sisterly pity on the remain-
ing unprotected Australian states, and keep them
going in the matter of their daily needs.” Mean-
time,. coming back to the serious question of in-
creasing trade depression in Sydney alone, we
would fain ask our weather-wise Foreign-trade
ora cles-“ Why New South Wales’ necessity
should be V ictoria’s opportunity ?”
* * *
In the matter of local speculation, the people of
the alleged mother colony are wrestling with the
reversal of a mining boom, and there seems to be
really no bottom to the collapse of silver stocks.
At all events, therein no immediate prospect of
then- arriving in their descent at a point of
solidity. A pleasant task indeed is it to sketch
the woe-begone faces of the hangers-on of those
heads-I-win-tails-you-lose ” shops the twin
bydney exchanges ! Peering shiveringly into the
published price-lists, only to watch their pet
shares still declining steadily down to Hades—
where the bulk of the victims devoutly wish them
eternally buried—with little faith and less cash, a
few surviving plungers make frantic efforts to
drop a plummet into futurity. Then, once again,
they dash in with nervous eagerness to “strike a
p ossible a\ erage, as they call it. They strike it
sure enough, and the “ average ” is about the
same each deal. Out they come, as usual, with
re-singed wings and it is devoutly to be hoped
resurrected credit!
Apropos of silver gambling—though admitting
the connection may seem a trifle mixed at first
blush—we believe ft Twain who
hazarded the w o e piece of advice t.hat “a man
could ye too careful in the selection of his
parents, vo the first place, it was (/iesirable that
they should be good-looking, but [it was
absolutely indispensable that they should
be rich. How far the- frequehters of


the latest, addition to our gambling shops
have been successful in attaining the first of
M. T. ’s desiderata can only be guessed at by the
visible length of noses therein assembled. As to
the latter half of his advice they would seem, to
judge by their noisiness of bidding and the fre-
quent flourishing of scrip and bank notes, to have
fairly well acted up to it also, even if to a critical
eye the bulk of them would suggest more the idea
of being born with rings in their noses than silver
spoons in their mouths. Be that as it may, how
i s it one stumbles across so many forms and faces,
lately to have been met across the classic thres-
hold of the Insolvency Court, all cash purchasers
and apparently buyers to any amount ? Glibly
are these gentry overheard to say, “A thousand
blocks, sir, I have just bought,” whilst the unini-
tiated innocent finds himself trying to fathom the
mystery of compounding with one’s creditors at
2s. fid. in the £, and then being able to drive fast
horses, support dubious establishments, and wear
flash jewellery,- with a few thousands to throw
away on the silver racket. No, they have appa-
rently solved the problem of how to make money.
“Make money,” sang the old Roman satirist,
“but if you can’t make it, why take it from some-
body else who can !”
* * *
Much journalistic and parliamentary nonsense
is being circulated just now anent the proposed
railway extension and the huge benefit that will
' accrue to the farmers therefrom. But what is the
use of building cumbrous, costly railways for
farmers who have nothing to send to market ?
Excepting a few truck-lords of oats once in a
while from Tiger iNULis’strongholdin the New Eng-
land district, and a few bags of chick-wheat at rare
intervals, what do New South Wales farmers pro-
duce save on paper, and in the fervid imagina-
tions of stay-at-home statisticians? A whole
net-work of railways, and free carriages into
the bargain, cannot help a Macleay maize -
grower to produce his staple cereal at 2s. fid.
a bushel ar.d to make his.salt against the
free importations' from America and South Africa.
That is all! How can a free-selector, with a rail-
way right up to his door, 500 miles from Sydney,
be expected to waste his miserable life in trying
to grow wheat, when California, and even India,
can flood the market with a score of free cargoes
(as they did the year before last) on such occasions
as New South Wale3—-whose home-produc-
tion of milling wheat never amounted to a hill of
beans—has drawn upon Victoria for all that poor
protected colony can spare? What an awful
farce a railway would seem to a back-blocks
'miller who, on using it in triumph to despatch a
few truck-loads of bran, found himself cut out of
ths market by unlimited free-imported and almost
free-freighted ’Erisco consignments! Railways
may, or may not, be finished five, ten, or a
hundred years hence, but they will not put farmers
on their legs right off the reel. - Agriculture wants
something more tangible to foster it. Let political
log-rollers cease quarrelling for lines to their con-
stituencies and pass an Act of comprehensive and
almost prohibitive protection against the imports of
the World, and they may do their country some
genuine good, and assist in its veritable develop-
ment. At present their railway-begging speeches
delivered in the House.are simply prospective ap-
peals addressed to their electors to secure a re-
occupation of their Seats in the next general
political scramble. Railway extensions and
quack-cries raised about decentralisation are
fatuous efforts to stave off the day of evil. There
is only one remedy for the universal panic, and
the Sydney daily press will cease their wailings
with the advent of genuine protection against the
imports of the world.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Von Popoli."
Much has been said about the action of the peop’e
who swarmed up to Sydney Houses of Parliament
and burst into the lobby demanding to see the
Premier and dictate his course of political ac-
tion to him in re the Chinese question, but the
* other side of the shield is not even looked at. Sir
Henry Parkes yielded to popular clamour and
transgressed the law ; but the fault is the trans-
gressor’s ; the clamour of the populace was natural
and right. The people knew what they had to
expect from the average colonial politician, whom
not love of country but financial greed, lust of
power, and personal vanity induce to inter public
life. While promi-.es will gain votes and satisfy
the “ mob,” promises will never give way to ac-
tion. Until the people threatened to wipe Parkes
and his Ministry out of existence, he mouthed and
ranted about the greatness of China’s power ; and
the impossibility of infringing treaties or inter-
rupting the entente cordiale between China and
the “ dear old mother country.” He posed as
the friend of China and Hingland, and the
supercilious enemy and critic of Australian
Nationalism. When the Chinese question sud-
denly assumed the proportions of the leading
pUnk in the next general election platform—and
as something better thanFreetrade must be found
to dish the Opposition—the Premier began to veer
round, to mouth republicanism, to belch fire and
vomit rebellion. His action was purely and
simply the outcome of that anti-Chinese meeting
in Sydney Town Hall which adjourned, with the
chief magistrate of the city at its head, to the
Houses of Parliament and demanded a guarantee
of prompt and decisive action. Of course it is all
very well to counsel moderation. People cannot
suck their thumbs with pleasure and sit still
waiting for the avalanche. The women
of New South .Wales had an example before them*
Sir Samubr Griffith had in Queensland played
the game of Parkes— the waiting and sarcastic
game of dilly-dallying uncil the wind of agitation
lias subsided and nothing is left to be done.
When the European miners at Croydon threa-
tened to eject the Chinese from the goldfield
within a fortnight unless the Queensland
authorities took some immediate action, Sir
Sahuer Griffith pointed out that the Govern-
ment could not act illegally, and then appealed to
the outraged miner? to behave as law-ab'ding
citizens. Griffith avoided the error of Parkes.
He did - not breal the existing laws. But his
action, or rather /■>action, was vastly more repre-
hensible than that oi the New South Wales Pre-
mier, for he made no attempt to pa«s a law to
meet the case. While tie- laws-exist they must
undoubtedly be obeyed. But there is no finality in
law. Otherwise a representative Government is a
farce. The judges of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales recently gave as their decision that if
any Chinaman, while seeking to escape from im-
prisonment on board the vessels in Sydney Har-
bour, killed a white man, he could not be held
guilty of murder. That is, the spirit of the exist-
ing law protects the Chinaman, and does not
allow him to be unjustly imprisoned. The spirit
of the law is the spirit of the people whose will is
the essence of all law. We are justified in believing
that the utterance recently delivered by the New
South Wales Supreme Court is the unanimous
sentiment of the great majority of the people of that
country. The people as a whole condemn Parkek’
action, and the Supreme Court has given voice to
the universal condemnation. Very good ! The
law is the crystallisation of the aggregate morality
of the great mass of the people, and the law can
never be above the source from which it has its
being. Apply this axiom to the case of the Croy-
don miners, and the same opinion of “ killing no
murder,” which in New South Wales is now
applied to the Chinaman, applied but recently to
the Europeans on the Queensland goldfields.
Griffith refused to give legislative concretion to a
universal sentiment. He dallied and promised,
and although he knew that he derived all his
po ver from the people, instead of passing their
wish into formal law, he appealed to & foreign
country and grovelled to a foreign potentate to
intercede with another foreign Power in a matter
he should have dealt with himself. And it was
this Croydon-cwm-GuiFFiTH episode which occa-
sioned the storming of the political pow-wow em-
porium in Macquaiie-street. The people knew
Parkes was not to be trusted, that his promises
were more frail than dicer’s oaths, more diaphon-
ous than a ghost’s breath, more untrustworthy
than the smile from the syren of the quicksand.
They read the soul of their idol, and they
threatened ; fear conquered, and they won.
- 4
The Dynastic Kaleidoscope.
The dynastic kaleidoscope of the Flohenzol-
lerns has made another revolution. The Em-
peror _ Frederick has followed his father, at a
short interval of time, to that place where kings
and emperors must, like chimney-sweepers,
moulder side by side. Frederick was a good
man, however, with simple tastes and liberal in-
stincts. _ In any other country, and not set apart
from his fellows by his kingly place, he might
have been a whole-souled tribune of humanity.
He was a philosopher with a soldier’s physique.
He had not many faults as a man, and his only
crime was that of being an emperor. Even the
French—that nation of scoffers at everything not
Gallic—admired him, and Anarchy extinguished
its torch _ and went to sleep for a season,
with no wish to raise a-hand against good Kaiser
Fritz. He was a Stoic in suffering, and bore his
dreadful fate with splendid heroism. He hoped
some day to introduce the representative system
into the parliament of his country, and while
liberal in politics he was sceptical in religion—his
enemies styled him atheist. During his brief
reign no attempts were made upon his life, which
while it lasted seemed to give assurance of peace
to an anxious Europe. With his son things will be
different somewhat. Since the inauguration of
the National Monument, “Germania,” at Nieder-
wald, when Reixsdork, Rupsoh, Kueohler, and
Holziiauer made their gigantic effort to shatter
in one tremendous blow the entire machinery
of despotic rule in Germany, Anarchy has lain
low. Reinsdork, who was implicated in the pre-
ceding attempts of Hodel and Dr. Nobilinc, has
found no successor with a brain great enough to
conceive so vast a project, or determination strong
enough to carry it so nearly to a successful issue.
But there are men in Germany who, lacking
Reinsdore "s genius, are still enough inspired by
hatred of the monarchical tyranny so thoroughly
embodied in William 11. as to move heaven and
earth to coinpas3 his destruction. It is with these
that the new Kaiser will have to deal, and Europe
will have to deal with him. Almost before his
father’s throne had time to cool he announced his
military policy :
“ I and the army belong- to each other. We are born
of one another, and we will stand together in peace or
storm if it be God’s will.”
These Williams of Germany talk much of God,
and love much to shed the blood of his creatures.
This young man, should Anarchy give him a re-
spite of a few years, may alter the political face
of Europe, and make of Germany a much greater
empire than it ever was before. He has been king but
fora few days, and already the sound of the grind-
stone is heard, and swords are being sharpened,
and bayonets pointed, for the coming struggle. It
is said that Bismarck loves peace ! This is not
so. Bismarck is passionless save on one subject—
the ascendancy of the German Empire; and by
peace or war, craft, cunning, truth, lies, plain-
dealing, or tortuous diplomacy, he will maintain
it. He is no sentimentalist, but a blood-and-iron
man of an undeviating policy. He is now making
overtures to Russia. For peace’ sake ?—No ! Aus-
tria is anxious at the turn events are taking—and
Austria may well be anxious. She assisted Prussia
in the dastardly exploitation of Denmark and paid
for the crime with Konigratz and Sadowa. She
assisted Prussia and Russia in the partition of
Poland, and Poland’s fate may yet be hers.
Russia has a card to play in the East, and with
Germany’s neutral friendship secured, will con-
tentedly witness the division of the territory ruled
by Franz-Josef between Germany and Austria’s
southern, ceaseless foe, who, when fighting alone,
is always worsted. The future is pregnant with
great events ; a young, ambitious man, with the
training of a soldier, sits on the throne of the
greatest of European powers, and his conduct is
guided by a Nestor of experienced genius in the
person of Prince Bismarck. The grass is just
ready for the scythe in Europe, and with fodder
for the horses, the armies may march to morrow,,
and the scythe will mow human grass in the
swaths of the battlefield.
Cardinal Hanning oil (lie Future of Free! rude
England.
Cardinal Manning, one of the keenest-witted
and clearest-headed of Koglishmen ; one of the
most humanly sympathetic of churchmen; one of
the most "broaoly socialistic of ecclesiastical politi-
cians, in a remarkable letter addressed to Hon.
Percy Wyndham, thus summarises the outlook
for England
Dear Mr. Wyndham,— l have delayed to thank you for
your last letter, and for “Fair Trade,” till I could read
the paper. I did so last night. Tor the last many years
I have been afraid that we have passed the highest point
of our prosperity, which seems to me to be the result of
transient causes, such as
X. The invention and application of machinery to pro-
duction.
2. The application of steam to the making of machinery
and of machinery to all industry.
•i. The use of steam for transit by land and by sea.
4. The manual skill resulting from these powers.
In all this we had the start of all nations. We took
away all their staples—silk from France, cloth from Ger-
many, glass from Bohemia, steel from Spain, etc.; and
we made it their interest to buy of us, thereby making
the whole Continent our market. This is all reversed ana
can never return. They have our inventions by machinery
and steam, and the skill resulting. They are supplying
themselves and shutting us out of their home market.
The Times of yesterday shows that all nations are rising
relatively to England, and notably Germany. I have
never been able to understand the enormous excess of our
imports oyer our exports. It is not paid for either in
money or in kind. Is it accumulating debt ? I had some
correspondence with the late Mr. Newmarch and conver-
sation with Lord Beacon,spield about it. But neither ac-
counted for it. The land and all the moral relations of
social life founded on it are gone. We may eat bread as
long as we command the sea. But our relative supe-
riority is very slender. Tne condition of the labour
market is depressed, and if neither in agriculture nor in
manufacture labour is demanded, I do not see the remedy.
Capitalists have had a run of prosperity ; but agriculture
is uhremunerative, and our Continental market is closed.
If our colonies do not save us capitalists will suffer next.
Ido not venture to suggest remedies. Our vast popula-
tion is always increasing, our land is a fixed quantity.
Its productiveness has never been ascertained. In
King John's time it was as twelve to our time,
which is as sixty. The Lords’ Committee on Land,
&c., some years ago reported that not more than one-
third of our land is adequately drained. But lam going
beyond my depth. Mr. Sampson Lloyd’s proposition on
page 8, column 2, of “ Fair Trade” seems to be undeniable.
What Free Traders would answer Ido not know. Yours
faithfully, Henry E., Card. Archbishop.
P S.- I have believed in Freetrade all my life, and
Mulhall’s “Fifty Years of National Progress ” seems to
justify it. But, baste cheduri, my fear is that it will not
last. It prospered when all its conditions were in our
favour. This does not prove that it will prosper when the
conditions are, if not altogether, at least extensively
changed.
As yet this has not been tested. The next ten years
will show if trade shall revive ; I am afraid land will not.
I am afraid that neither pasture nor our “ wondrous
roots ” —as Lord Beaconsfield called them—nor even jam,
will restore the value of land and the employment of our
agricultural population. But lam getting beyond my
depth. H. E., C.A.
Commenting on the Cardinal’s letter the editor of
a New York paper pertinently remarks :
“This is a literal • fulfilment of the cartoon that ap-
peared some months ago representing John Bull in a
boat loaded with goods in a high sea, the Union Jack re-
versed as a sign of distress, and Governor Cleveland
throwing him a life-saving line in the shape of a Free-
trade bill. That about summarises the situation.
The U.S. Senate, however, don’t intend that John
Bull shall use that rope, and that leaves John about in
the condition Cardinal Mannino describes England to
be in.”
When men of such widely opposite aims and
ideas as Cardinal Manning, Lord Wolseley,
Professor Huxley, Lord Beresford, and Lord
Randolph Churchill— -all Englishmen of an in-
tensely patriotic school—agree with so startling a
unanimity concerning the decadence of England
in war, in commerce and industries, in stamina
and solidarity, we require more authoritative
assurance than that furnished by the colonial
Tory press that they hftve been grievously mis-
taken.
4
A Dream of Plain Women.
All the plainest, and necessarily the most intel-
lectual women in the world have gathered- to-
gether in America to discuss the question of man’s
dominion over the fish of the sea, and the beasts of
the field, and the fowl of the air, and the angels of
heaven who condescend, in the guise of women, to
dwell awhile with him, and bless him, and wear
the bonnet of his buying, and the jewels of his
filching from his less fortunate fellows. An
American paper says of this aggregation of
femininity :
“ It has been pf rhaps the grandest pow-wow of women
that has taken place on earth since St. Ursula assembled
her 7000 virgins and started out on her immortal, but
fatal pilgrimage.”
When the Beauteous Terrorist gathered her skirts
around her frigid ankles and sat herself down in
Washington, the war-scare for a moment paled in
the East, and the Universe held its breath in sus-
pense and made bets with Eternity as to the ver-
dict which should decide its fate. Then, in
her multitudinous unity, she fell to work
and sized up things past, things present and things
to come, and played Old Harry -generally with
the abstract intangibilities of the intractable.
Nothing on earth is more chilling and awe-inspiring
than one man seated in a circle of women. Rash
indeed would have been the unhappy be-trowsered
wight who should have penetrated that charmed
ring. Eemale delegates from all parts of the
World were present to discuss and insist on the
social equality of women with men—and the evil
has been firmly established. A permanent and in-
ternational organisation has been the outcome of
the Washington meeting of this globe’s confer-
ence of the plain women thereof, and man may
now take his pipe and his blankets and make
tracks for the wilderness. Mrs. Fawcett (the
widow of a man who never saw her) was elected
president of the society, and she has, we are told,
women of unique culture and refinement in her
train. We do not for a moment doubt it. We
have seen the portraits of these delegates of the
sterner sex, and they look frigid and intellectual
enough to overawe the megatherium. They one and
all are agreed upon the point, so persistently stated
by Charles Kingsley, that women will never
have social equity until they attain legal equality.
One paper remarks that should their efforts be
successful woman will in every way be raised to be
“more than a helpmeet to man.” True, too true
—she will be installed in the position of
“ boss,” and at once begin to wear “tne dual gar-
ment ” of Lady Harberton. Besides equality
with man, the temperance movement is the
broadest plank of the woman’s platform, and she
has a whole timber stack of smaller planks ranging
from the abolition of opium to the abolition of
war. Ind ed, abolition of everything is the
advanced woman's raison d'etre, but there is
nothing she yearns for the abolition of more than
that of her natural rival —man. And no wonder !
As we intimated before, we have seen a picture ot
the conference in all its petticoated terrors as-
sembled, and a more man-affrighting collection
could hardly well be imagined. Many of them
are unmarried, and we are anxious to dispose of
their hands and of their plainness. Any eligible
offer will be prayerfully considered and the por-
traits can be inspected any day at this office be-
tween the hours of 10 and 4.
\ /’-
\ t Purely Selfisli Objection.”
The Overland China Mail, a large and solemn
paper published at Hong Kong, expresses itself as
being hurt internally at the treatment of the
Chinese in Australia. Among other expressions
of grief and mental damage it states :
“ The Australian people will not, we think, rise in the
estimation of the world by their conduct with regard to
the Chinece. Their objection to John Chinaman is purely
selfish.”
We appeal to our leaden and expensive contem-
porary to state what else it expected our objection
i.£° * ar > every Australian paper which [has
raised the Anti-Chinese cry has stated distinctly
that Australia wanted to be rid of the cheap
idolaters from purely selfish motives, and if any-
body ever imagined that we objected to them from
any other motives we hasten to explain to him
that he is wrong, livery national movement is
more or less selfish, and every nation is selfish—-a
nation that is anything else promptly becomes ex-
tinct. Ihe Chinamen themselves, when, in the
course of some long-forgotten migration, they
rolled down on what is now China, occupied the
land for purely selfish purposes ; and in later days
they have poured their surplus thousands into tlie
“traits bettlements, Manilla, Hawaii, and Austra-
lia, for exactly similar reasons. No one, so far,
has ventured to state that the Mongols invaded
these colonies for the purely generous purpose of
benefiting the white inhabitants, and having come
to Australia for selfish ends Australia selfishly
bids them go back again whence they came. This
conduct may not exactly square with the Scrip-
tural command which bids the terrestrial
saint when smitten on one cheek to turn
the other also, but it comes as near to it as
anything is ever likely to do in this world. Among
the inhabitants of a sinful earth there are at pre-
sent at least a million who wish to smite for one
who is prepared to be smitten, and a close ad-
herence to the New Testament maxim would
merely result in the solitary apostle dying ex-
tremely young ; therefore selfishness is the order
of the day. Britain herself annexed Hongkong
tor the selfish purpose of increasing her Empire ;
and m the territory thus selfishly obtained the
Overland China Mail is published, we pre-
sume at least partly for the selfish object of
making a little money. If we are wrong
U , s conjecture we apologise and conclude
that the profits are given to the poor. The
o traits bettlements were annexed in a
similar selfish spirit, and the Chinese are
selfishly permitted to come there because they
are found to be useful ; in Australia they are
found to be a nuisance, so they are selfishly
ordered to go. A few capitalists who have a sel-
fish object to gain in the shape of cheap labour
tender their support to the Mongols ; a few poli-
ticians and others whose interests are not injured
by Chinese competition, and who are anxious for
selfish reasons connected with titles, decorations,
or the gratification cf selfish sentiment, to main-
tain the connection with the Empire, oppose anti-
Chinese legislation lest it should lead in the end
to separation ; a few parsons who have not suf-
fered so far from the rivalry of Chinese cheap
preaching’, and who selfishly make money by
expounding a religion which is, in most cases,
only ® selfish plan for saving one’s own soul,
also lend their eloquence on behalf of the
heathen ; but the majority of the people
are . against them—for selfish reasons. Cen-
turies ago a German tribe selfishly drove the
Britons out of their heritage and cooped them up
m the barren mountains of Wales, and their de-
scendants, the present English nation, who sel-
fishly hang on to the land which they gained by
that ancient steal, are now, nominally at least,
the final court of appeal on the Chinese question
m Australia, because they, in selfishness and
greed, stole that Continent from its illiterate
black inhabitants in days gone by. If Britain,
however, in a. selfish attempt to keep on good
terms with China for purposes of trade, resolves
to sacrifice the interests of this nation, the chances
are that Australia will cut herself. adrift rather
than turn the other ear to be smitten by a China-
man, and will go her own selfish way caring for
nothing save herself. It is a pathetic circum-
stance that everything is built upon selfishness: but
the fact is that the nation which looks after itself
generally has its hands full and cannot waste
time looking after anybody else on a large-hearted
and generous basis. If it does lend itself to any
such foolishness, somebody invariably comes up
behind it, and hits it on the head when it isn’t
looking. Even international law is a mere
selfish attempt to keep things going quietly
and smoothly for selfish ends, and treaties are
built up on a selfish plan by which each side tries
to get all it can. Property of all kinds is selfish-
ness, and it is selfish to live because by so doing
each man reduces another’s chance of living. And
just here we notice with regret that the proprie-
tors of the grieved Overland China Mail sel-
fishly charged a shilling for the issue in which
their pathetic reproach was published, when in
our humble and perhaps worthless opinion it
wasn’t really worth more than twopence. The
world is full of selfishness, and what is commonly
called Justice is merely an arrangement by which
no man is to be allowed to carry his selfishness
further than his neighbour. When the scale is
evenly balanced then earthly perfection will have
been reached. At present, however, things are
painfully lop-sided, and a great reform is needed
in order to equalise the gratification of this im-
portant sin among the white inhabitants of Aus-
tralia. This contract is a sufficiently large one
for any nation, and—we state it with regret—the
yellow man must therefore go and sin against the
code of abstract Christianity in his own Elowery
Land, or wherever else he can gratify his selfish-
ness at the expense of someone who is not strong
enough to object.
Jigger of speech. ByParkes. Addressed
to the only jolly-looking inmate of the Liverpool
Benevolent Asylum, on the occasion of the Pre-
mier’s recent inspection of that institution:
“Why, you look as happy as an intoxicated cock-
roach !” As already remarked-figger of speech,
by Parkes.
A Remark.
(By A.N.Z. WORKING MAN. )
There's a cry coming over the main,
A voice from Australia’s shore,
And Echo repeats it again
Till it swells to a tempest’s roar.
Tis the cry of our brothers we hear,
Like a cataract’s thunderous flow,
Coining nearer and ever more near—
“ The Heathen Chinee must go.”
There’s no room for the yellow man here,
So the Heathen Chinee must go ;
He must pack up his Joss and clear
For the banks of the Hoang-Ho.
New Zealand re-echoes the cry,
’Tis heard on the crags and the peaks,
From the surf-beaten shores it arises on high,
And out of the tempest it speaks.
And a voice from the grave of the dead,
From each old Maori hero laid low
Heaps a curse on the pagans who delve o’er his
head,
And calls on the heathen to go.
There’s no room for the leper out here,
He must coil up his pigtail and go ;
With his Joss and his spots he must clear
For the banks of the Hoang-Ho.
Wellington.
ALEX S[?].


History of Botany Bay.
Long before this the Vested Interest class
had recognised Bourke for an enemy. He
had made a friend of Wentworth, who was a
frequent guest at the Qovernor’s table, and
his private words and public acts showed the
exclusionists that their interests were in
danger at his hands. They therefore revived
all those agencies of attack which they and
their predecessors had brought to bear so
often before on previous Governors —the
anonymous letter, the scurrilous lampoon,
the private slander, the public charges to the
Colonial Office, and all those miserable
adjuncts of the art they had been at such
persistent pains to cultivate. It is unneces-
sary to pursue the ramifications of this busi-
ness, and the purpose of this paper will be
as well served by one case as by fifty. We
will select a typical one ; and nothing we
know of so clearly shows the character of the
people who opposed Bourke than the book
called “ The Felonry of New South Wales,”
by Major Mudie, before alluded to.
* * *
We have seen how this man so cruelly ill-
treated his convicts that some of them broke
out into open mutiny as their only chance of
escape from this chartered ruffian. Six of
these men, it will be remembered, were
hanged for their part in this mutiny, and
the Governor was so struck by the state of
things disclosed at the enquiry that he re-
moved Major Mudie from the Commission
of the Peace. This mild punishment ap-
pears to have excoriated the Major’s tender
sensibilities to such a degree that he became
one of Bourke’s bitterest opponents in his
own small way, and the book just named is
the result. Major Mudie became the
mouthpiece of the class to which he
belonged, and of which he was such a worthy
member. The object of this vile production
was, in his own words, to ‘ ‘ arraign at the
bar of public opinion the conduct of the Go-
vernor, and that of several of his func-
tionaries in the government of New South
Wales, and particularly as regards his and
their spirit of favouritism towards the con-
victs —it may even be politically said,
criminal collusion with convicts.” From
this extract it will be seen that the gallant
Major was readier with the lash than the
pen, but, of course, something must be al-
lowed for continual practice. Then the
story goes on.
* # *
Under the influence of pernicious princi-
ples respecting popular rights and popular
institutions, he continues. Bourke easily fell
into the hands of Judge Forbes and Mr.
Wentworth, and other politically dangerous
men in the community. Of these ‘ 1 the
most dangerous, both from his position and
his insidiousness, was the Chief Justice. A
Bermudan by birth and educated in an
American college, Mr. Chief Justice Forbes
is a known Republican. . . . From the
first he assumed and performed the part of
the protector of the felonry.” This was the
verdict of the class Major Mudie represented
on the character of our first Chief/Justice,
and the man who introduced the beginning
of Constitutional Government. Careful as
they always professed themselves to be of
the interests of law and order, when these
terms meant the preservation of their own
power, they were unscrupulous enemies of
both order and law and those who were ap-
pointed to preserve it under what they
called “ felonial ” government. When
Wentworth was appointed a magistrate the
cup of their bitterness was filled to over-
flowing. His policy was described as one of
“ eagerness to gain popularity by hollow
X>retence to convictism and emancipitism,”
and, says the injured Major, ‘‘ he had taken a
part in colonial politics so violent and pecu-
liar, besides that there were other circum-
stances regarding him to which it is not neces-
sary to advert, he was the very last free man
in the colony who should have been placed,
on the Commission of the Peace. It gave
to this hot-brained and intemperate political
partisan a right to interfere still more than
he had done in the affairs of the colony, and
particularly with the proceedings of the
magistracy.” This long extract will throw
some light on the subsequent career of
Wentworth.
• * •
“One of the many grave charges against
Sir Richard Bourke,” says the Major again
with the utmost seriousness, “ is that he has
exhibited ah undue, an unwise, an impolitic
and a dangerous leniency towards the con-
vict population of the colony, and that he
has not only manifested this disgraceful pro-
pensity in the acts of his Government, but
that he has taken into his special grace and
favour the well-known apologists and advo-
cates of the convicts, while he has averted
his countenance from the disciplinarians who
have presumed to oppose his frantic experi-
ments, or to remonstrate against the lax and
demoralising tendency of his system.” This
good Major is clearly one of those people
who have been counselled not to play with
edged tools. A pen in this man’s hand is
as dangerous to the class of which he is the
mouthpiece, as a petard or a torpedo. In
this extract, this disciplinarian whose men
were glad to escape him even through the
trap-door of a gallows admits the whole case
against the Yested Interest class, and throws
away the mask. . No man was better qualified
to speak on behalf of the disciplinarians
than this writer. Before the mutiny on his
estate occurred a story was told in which he
figured rather unpleasantly, and which per-
haps had a great deal to do with what
happened afterwards. One of his assigned
servants took to the bush, and travelled on
foot one hundred and forty miles, presented
himself at Government House, and com-
plained of the outragepus tyranny and
oppression of his master, Major Mudie. The
Governor’s son and private secretary saw the
runaway, heard his story, comforted and
advised him, and sent him back to his master
with a letter, begging that the unfortunate
man might not be too severely visited for
his error in taking to the bush to lay his
case in person before the authorities. It
is Major Mudie himself who tells the
story, and he unblusliingly adds the
sequel. He charges the Governor’s son
in his book with unlawfully and criminally
harbouring a bushranger, and immediately
on the return of the man he handed him
over to a bench of his neighbour magistrates,
who promptly sentenced him to labour in
the ohain-gang as a bushranger—“in con-
formity with law,” adds the Major. There
.were at that time one hundred free and con-
vict labourers on Mudie’s estate, and it may
easily be believed that the unlucky result of
this man’s application for help from the
authorities, and their master’s action in the
matter, precipitated the mutiny that fol-
lowed.
• • *
It would be tedious to follow this writer
in his defence of the class of which he was
suoh a worthy member. His book is nothing
more or less than a foul collection of villain-
ous charges against Bourke and those of his
officials who assisted him in drawing the
fangs of the propertied classes. Borne filthy
stones about the private lives of successful
Emancipists have been carefully garnered up,
and Major Mudie devoted his congenial
talents to the collection of all the incidents
of this kind that delighted his delicate
fancy. Utter unscrupulousness and literary
larrikinism are evidenced in every page ;
but the result of the whole is merely to
place the class he spoke for in a worse light,
if possible, than before. Of course the
Governor was the chief mark for IPs slanders,
and the very line of attack his scurrilous
assailant takes is, perhaps, Bourke’s best
apology. After explaining with approval
how Governor Darling prohibited the con-
victs from directly addressing themselves to
the Government on any pretence, and con-
fined them to making their complaints or ap-
plications to the nearest bench of magistrates,
he charges Bourke with the flagrant crime of
encouraging “the correspondence of con-
victs with himself and his functionaries, re-
ceiving the secret a(k usationS of any of the
ruffians of the colony against their masters,
and even comforting and advising runaways
who repaired to him for consolation.”
* * *
The good faith of this accusation and its
maker may be judged from the fact that the
complaints of convicts were usually against
the cruelty of their masters. It has been
already explained that the magistrates were
the convict-masters, and were in the habit
of obliging each other by the torture of the
assigned servants brought before them. This
was a reciprocal favour ; the magistrate who
sentenced his friend’s servant to the lash to-
day might ask a similar favour from the
friend the day after, or even the same day.
It was a pleasant system, based on the
polished amenities and graceful sense of the
duty of mutual obligation which is the in-
visible bond of all polite society, and it is
much to the credit of Governor Darling’s
proper taste that he recognised this feature
in the higher circle of colonial life, and paid
its members the delicate attention to which
Major Mudie so appreciatively refers. There
was no coarse and brutal interference with
vested rights on Darling’s part, therefore,
when he commanded that if a convict had
any complaint against his master he should
make it known to his master’s friend.
Botany Bay etiquette required this. It was
nothing, of course, to the convict that any
chance of redress was denied him, for he had
no vested rights except in the lash, and he
could not be expected to appreciate the
amenities of the aristocracy. But Bourke had
the excessively bad taste to listen to com-
plaints that reached him, and even to en-
courage the oppressed to make their condi-
tion known to him. Worse than that, he
actually endeavoured to extend to these
miserables a certain measure of protection
and redress.
* # •
Major Mudie was righteously indignant,
therefore, at these horrible solecisms. “ So
high-minded, indeed, under this childishly-
foolish system have the felon population
become,” he says, “ that convicts are quite
indignant at being called convicts, and inso-
lently deny the right of anyone to treat them
with disrespect.” This was another attempt
to deny to the Vested Interest class one of
its most cherished privileges, but Major
Mudie was not the man to endure this kind
of thing without a murmur. He would not
submit, he says, “either to their folly or
caprices, or to their insolence or their
tyranny.” He “not only kept his convicts
in their proper place and at their proper dis-
tance, and compelled them to wear the
regular convict dress, but he had the dress
of each branded with a number and with his
own name as the assignee master.” What
with that which the disciplinarian Major has
told us of his -treatment of his white labour,
and what he omitted to tell but which has
come to us from other and perhaps more re-
liable sources, we get quite a pleasant pic-
ture of slave-life on the estate of ‘ ‘ Castle
torbes.” W-hefi the assigned servants
uhitiftlfd, tfiey fio express to
him their deep sense of the trouble he had
taken in their interests, and had the Major
not been so exceedingly deft at running
away he would certainly have had no cause
to complain of their ingratitude. They took
possession of his house while he was away,
and though they refrained from assassinating
its mistress, they pillaged the plaice of what
arms, ammunition, and food they could, and
took to the road in search of their master.
They found that good man, and were plea-
santly preparing to flog him to death with
his own cat-o’-nine-tails, when he jumped
into the river and escaped amid a shower of
shot and curses. One is apt to experience a
tender regret here that these clumsy con-
victs did not give him some lashes—just a
few—before his modest diffidence led him to
decline that testimonial. We scarcely know
where to bestow our astonishment—on the
strange revulsion of feeling which led the
Major to condemn the use of the lash in this
single instance, or on the gaucherie of the
uncultivated Boeotians who allowed him to
make his escape.
• * *
The moral obliquity which would make
the state of things existing under the assign-
'ment system decently tolerable is almost
incredible at even 1 this short distance of
time. But the records of actual occurrences
set down by one who believed and was an
active agent in that system put the circum-
stances of the time out of the region of in-
certitude. This is the value—and the only
value —of Major Mudie’s slanderous book.
The only touch of colour wanting to what
has been already described will be found
perhaps in the fact that the souls and bodies
of convict men and women were committed
to the irresponsible care of men like one
whose character and personality are can-
didly painted by himself in his own shame-
less book. It is almost impossible to doubt
that the man was sincere—that he believed
as emphatically as the men who approve and
administer the penal laws of to-day, in the
justice of the system of which he formed a
part. The hypocrisy which would allow a
man to write as this man has written if he
did not hold’the views he sets forth would
be .too fiendish or too melodramatic to pass
ordinary criticism. And the fact that the
lives of men and women were at the mercy
of such merely mechanical instruments of
torture as this man .describes himself to be
only goes to prove the worst that has been
said about the eonvict system. “The
scorching glow of conscious shame—and
the groan of the convict’s agony—are more
appropriate,” wrote the Major referring to
Bourke and his officials, “ to the feelings of
men thus indelibly stamped with the guilt of
public delinquency, and held up to derision,
contempt, and scorn for their mental incapa-
city and folly. ” This fantastic sentence reads
almost like the words of a man who really
believes in what he says.
• - •
The Governor could not take any notice of
the slanders in this book, but it was just as
well, perhaps, that the gallant Major slan-
dered someone who could give him his atten-
tion, and from whom, it would seem, that
sturdy disciplinarian could not run away.
Most of Major Mudie’s libels were perpe-
trated on safe men—on men who had been
hanged, for instance, or on the Governor
who could not reply, or on officials who were
advanced in years. But in one of his slan-
ders Major Mudie caught a Tartar. _ Mr.
Kinchela, afterwards Judge, held office as
Attorney-General in his time. That gentle-
man had displayed a certain amount of
humanity in the discharge of the duties of
his office —was, perhaps, concerned in the
enquiry into the “Castle Forbes” mutiny.
Major Mudie referred to him in his book in
these terms Deficient in legal know-
ledge, he has not even the address or man-
ners, or the language of a gentleman. His
utterance is bad, and strongly tinctured with
the brogue of Kilkenny ; and, to crown the
whole, he is excessively deaf—a defect
necessarily, subjecting him to the most mis-
chievous or the most ludicrous mistakes.”
The Attorney-General would not resent this
scurrilous blackguardism. But he had a son.
The young fellow interviewed Major Mudie
with a horsewhip. He had talked the
matter over with his friends, and they
decided that something like fifty lashes
would about meet the Major’s case. So the
young man stepped airily up to that gallant
and high-spirited officer one day, and with
cool precision proceeded to carry out the
sentence. There washio river for the Major
to jump into this time, and he could not run
away. So he had to take his punishment
with the best grace he had, and content him-
self with the usual threats of redress in the
courts of law. He took his case into court,
and as there was no denying either the
assault or the events that led up to it, young
Kinchela was mulct in the sum of £5O,
being at the rate of £1 for every stroke of
the whip. The young fellow paid the money
with pleasure, and expressed an opinion that
the entertainment was a very cheap one at
the price.
. * *
Enough of Major Mudie. He ana nis
book have served their purpose, and that
brave man himself has gone to his own
place —a place, perhaps, where he will have
no reason to complain of the severity of the
penal We have used him and
his book to throw light on the character of
the class to which he belonged, and on the
nature of their opposition to Bourke and his
policy. What has been said in this and the
preceding paper will give the reader an idea
of what the work of reform really meant.
One cannot be struck at the similarity of the
things described to that which existed
under the New South Wales Corps in the
first years of settlement. There was the
same division of classes and the same cruelty
and oppression on one side, and suffering
and despair on the other. Major Mudie is
the legitimate successor of Captain Mac-
arthur, and the seed that pioneer sowed had
by this time brought forth a plentiful har-
vest crop after its kind. The settlement,
had now been in existence for nearly 50
years, and the only mark of development
or progress yet shown so far as adminis-
trative detail was concerned, was that men-
tioned above. The scene described as having
taken place in the Batlmrst Courthouse may
be read side by side with another, elsewhere
treated, which occurred at Parramatta at
the beginning of the century. On that
occasion two floggers set to work on the
victim at once, so that the torture was com-
paratively short. This was a crude and un-
refined method, with no element of the
artistic about it. But on this last occasion
the executioners relieved each other, and
the lashes were given at half-minute time,
so that the suffering wretch might miss no
twinge or throb of his torture. This was
progress, indeed. It was one of those
thoughtful attentions which had their origin
in that more polished society of the ‘ ‘ colo-
nial aristocracy ” into which the ruder con-
ditions of the New South Wales Corps had
been translated. It would be pleasant to
speculate as to the further results in the way
of refinement of cruelty - these 1 ingenious
wretches would have devised had Bourke
not prematurely crushed the whole system
out of existence altogether.
Bush Songs.
Dear Bulletin, —You published some time
ago an article on Australian Bush Songs, and
gave several specimens of back-blocks verse. In
the beginning of January, 1865, I was a passenger
by the Three Friends from a small settlement on
the Lower Burdekin called Wickham, and, as is
usual, those on board did their best to make the
time pass pleasantly. One young woman was
asked to sing, and she said she only knew one
song, which she had learnt at the station she came
from. It had been taught her by an old cook,
and it was called the “Lying Stockman.” She
said that it had been composed by a mate of
the cook’s. You gave one verse in your article on
“ Bush Songs,” and if you think it worth publish-
ing here it is :
The New South Wales Payment of Members
Bill has given Parkes an opportunity to present
limself to the world in an even more than usually
upside-down attitude, and in the course of the de-
bates his varied gyrations have excited much pub-
lic interest. After alternately supporting and
denouncing the principle for years, he has appar-
ently settled down to a stern resolution that, so
long as he holds office at a good salary, it doesn’t
matter though other members have to work
for nothing; and in his capacity as a
frenzied opponent of Parliamentary remuneration
he advised Governor Carington, in the usual
course of business, to send down a mes-
sage inviting the Assembly to pass the
Payment of Members Bill with all despatch. The
Bill being introduced upon Parkes’ cordial invi-
tation and fathered by Garrett and Clarke, he
next proceeded to sit ferociously upon everyone
who voted for it, and to howl that it should be
thrown out of the back window of the House.
Poor Uncle Abigail ventured to support it in
Parkes’ absence, and a minute later the old man
rushed in and said he was surprised and disgusted
at such backsliding. He was of opinion that pay-
ment of members was a disgrace and a fraud, and
he thought O’Sullivan wanted his £3OO a year in
order to hire ruffians to break up Freetrade
meetings. he neglected altogether to ex-
plain why "he had put the measure on the
programme in the first place, and he also omitted
to state that he wouldn’t draw his share of the
profits (Parkes’ creditors of ancient days, by
the way, will gladly draw his screw) if the
Bill were passed. Also, he did not explain
why, supposing he had left the question an
open one, he claimed the right to slang those of
his colleagues who support ed it; ot why, if he had
not left trie question open, he did not feel called
upon to resign when the Assembly passed the
second reading in the teeth of his protests, by a
majority of nearly two to one. Things are so mixed
over the new Payment of Members’ Bill that it is
difficult to find out where Parkes stands, but it
can be indistinctly made out that he is directly
responsible for the introduction of the measure,
and that he will be very much riled if it becomes
law. Also, that now, when its success has become
almost a matter of certa : ,uy, he says he will
never let it be introduced again. From which we
gather that when Par :es has caught the omnibus
he won’t run after it any more.
“THE DYING STOCKMAN.
“ Whether stockman or not,
One moment give ear—
Poor Jack’s breathed his last
And no more can you hear
The crack of his whip »
Or his steed’s lively trot,
His clear “ go ahead,''
Or his jingling quart-pot.
Chorus. —For they’ve lain him where wafj
Their sweet fragrance shed,
And the tall gum-tree shadows
The stockman’s last bed.
“ Whilst drafting one day
He was horned by a cow —
‘Alas !’ said poor Jack,
‘ It’s all up with me now ;
Oh, never shall I my saddle regain,
Or bound like a wallaby over tne plain.
Chorus. —For they’ll lay me where,’ etc.
“ His hut is forsaken,
His dogs do bemoan ;
His horse is awaiting
His master’s return.
Unheeded, uncared-for,
Neglected he dies,
Save Australia’s dark children
No one knows where he lies.
Chorus.— For they’ve lain him,” etc.
I am afraid this is not very poetical, it may las
even be very commonplace, but when sung, as it
was then, it sounded very pathetic.—Yours,
Vinca. Townsville (Q.)


CATARRH
is an inflammation of the mucous
membrane of the nose and throat,
iandunless cured will destroy every Acuity and _ function
Aof its victim. Catarrhbank is an infallible cure. Sold
Soul and all chemists. Full partinnUi*
* y y Pi vvvvTfi VV W w
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal.— “ The World ” ,p. 15.
Her Majesty’s.— “ Two Orphans ” „
Royal Standard. —“ The Forger’s Wife ”.. ~
Criterion. —“ As You Like It ” ~
Alhambra. —Minstrelsy J(
New Opera House.— Harry Rickards „
Gaiety. —Jungfrau Kapelle „
Haymarket. —Wirth’s Circus ~
The Gaiety burlesquers opened at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday night, that earthly
tabernacle being packed to the ceiling at prices
which rose to the occasion. Our volatile visitors
received a welcome indicative of a powerful new
chum element in all parts of the house. A savour
of auld lang syne permeated the proceedings, so
that it became hard to discover whether “ Monte
Christo, Junior,” was delighting a strange audience
or reminding old admirers of the halcyon period
when tailors’ importunities had not yet driven
them forth to a distant strand
The above rhyme is lugged in with more reason
than most of the “Monte Christo ” ballads. It is
also much better pud together and superior in 32
other respects. The reputed gem of this burlesque
is an Irish song called “ Ballyhooly,” which has
paralysed London society and heaved its author
on to the pinnacle-point of fame. • He might have
brought Ballyhooly to The Bulletin and have
been bashed by a brick —there’s a lot in luck. As a
work of art ‘ ‘ Monte Christo ” may be likened to
the dullest half of “ Little Jack Sheppard ” mul-
tiplied by three. The fac similes of Jack and
Jonathan Wild have a tiresome interview in the
same old dungeon, trying to knock sparks of
humour off the unresponsive flint of sheer inanity.
And right here is the correct spot for mentioning
that the star performers—Miss Nellie Barren and
Mr. Leslie —are continually carrying the author
through the slough of despondency with a
determination and physical strength which
amazes even when it doesn’t amuse. They
have elevated burlesque to something of a
science, and the torch of genius lights
them through its gloomiest labyrinths. Miss
Barren is rather younger than she used to
be, sprightlier than before, and altogether cleverer
than ever. Strangers to her peculiarities of voice
can rest assured she will grow on them—notin
the Minnie Palmer sense, because that flossy angel
grew backwards. Besides Mr. Leslie, there are
about six other members of the company who
dance, sing, or act, or do all three things together,
in exceptionally smart style. Jam to follow.
The burlesque is most expensively held up, and
the show is quite equal to what we ustd to get at
London Gaiety. Emperor Brederick’s death pre
vented his brother potentate, Sir Henry Loch,
from attending, as promised. He had to stay at
home and nurse his woe.
• * •
Ocher Melbourne entertainments are
mostly gathering up the shekels with a shovel.
“Jim the Penman,” in which everybody gets
nearer to all-round excellence, is rushed nightly.
At the Royal, Carrie Swain is getting along swim-
mingly in the tank. Miss Amy Sherwin changed
Martha ” for the “ Bohemian Girl ” on Monday,
and that impossible young person, with her horde
of thieving gipsies, was to steal herself silently
away later in the week. The Coghills have en-
gaged jovial John Gourlay to assist them,
and “Skipped by the Light of the Moon ” on
Saturday, which deepens our old suspicion
that this famous comedy is a nigger enter-
tainment. Anyway, it promises to flourish
and wax fat at St. George’s Hall. Brank Clark s
crowd of “all stars” keep up a festive twinkle
shine at the Victoria, while Miss Von Binkeistein
(twig the poem ?) is trotting the patriarchs of old
round Jerusalem and through the wilderness with
unerring aim. The lambs rush all the available
space at the Athenaeum, which compels the goats
to browse elsewhere. They usually drown their
disappointment in the neighbouring pubs.
*# # #
The great works of that eminent compound
bard, Shakesbacon, are enjoying a brief rest at
Sydney Criterion, where “ Much /Ado About
Nothing ” ha 3 just been succeeded by “ Pygmalion
and Galatea.” Among all the numerous dramas
which Mr, Shakespeare wrote for Plain Bill Hollo-
way the story of Benedick and Beatrice is the one
in which the company hangs best together, and
though Benedick’s subdued tendency to be red-
headed may hardly suit popular prejudice,
this phenomenal development of his thatch shows
that his reading of the character—or at least of
the character's head —is strictly original. Essie
tJenyns, on the other hand, is original without
being red-headed, and her Beatrice is a picture, of
Jovely womanhood filled with joyousness, airy
mischief, and queenly cussedness, such as any
misanthrope with lobster-coloured locks might fall
down and worship. Miss Constance Deorwyn also
gets a good part as Hero, and runs the star very
closely, and we hurriedly return to Mr. Holloway
to mention that his Benedick wears tight pants
with huge red stripes, which make him look like
a public indignity mounted on two streaks. The
last two nights have been filled with the favourite
story of how the old Athenian tradesman ran up
a lath-and-plaster girl whom he kept under a dry
arch, and how he was struck with astonishment
when she broke loose. The troubles of this gen-
tleman and his struggles to crowd the girl back
again into her cupboard have filled the Criterion
to overflowing. Pretty Essie Jenyns, as the lady
who was put together so suddenly, and who came
to life before she could be sold, thus perpetrating
a melancholy swindle upon her manufacturer at a
time when trade was severely depressed and money
very tight, has created a furore (this foreign
expression is put in to impart style to the pro-
ceedings), and Miss Constance Deorwyn is a hand-
some and successful Greek lady of uncertain
temper, named Cynisca. Mr. Norman, as a hulk-
lnB, s ° ldier who is accustomed to bask under trees
and hre at his neighbours’ pet cows, is only a
dubious warrior at the best, and Mr. Richard
wart does not quite get the hang of Chrysos.
Bill Holloway enacts Pygmalion clothed in a har-
mony m red with mauve shadows, pale-pink
fleshings, rose-pink kilt, mauve tunic with yellow
border, and carrotty wig, and striking a noble atti-
tude as a large, red-headed Greek from Cork, he
thunders out, “I am a man.” We won’t dispute
the point; he ought to know best. “As You
Like It, ’ and “ Romeo,” fill the rest of the current
week.
## # #
After 1 riday night there will be a hungry
void in the soul of the Sydney taxpayer, for the
Tyrolese Singers will have departed and left their
admirers seated on the jagged edge of despair and
perched on the old brass knob of desolation. We
trust that wherever they bang the lyre success
may attend them, and that they may continue for
many years to extract sweet melody from the
entrails of the cat for the delight of an apprecia-
tive world. For their show is one of the liveliest
and cleverest and healthiest which has ever come to
Australia. The “Two Orphans,” at Her Majesty’s,
and Bland Holt’s dynamite combination at the
Royal, are both well patronised, and the former
might progress even better if the seats in the dress-
circle did not distract the attention of the audience
by rising up and butting them on the small of the
back at critical moments. A fiendish combina-
tion of springs makes one feel at this luxurious
theatre. as if he were sitting on a richly uphol-
stered tiger, and at every movement the animal
[From a Photo, by Tuttle & Co.]
MISS KATE LEETE AS “SAPPHO."
(HARRY RICKARDS’ COMEDY COMPANY.)
claws at him malevolently. The Academy of
Music re-opens on Saturday with 1 rank Clark s
combination, which includes among its attrac-
tions the Donaldson Brothers, a piir of boneless,
india-rubber gentlemen, who have fed on
watch-springs until they consist almost en-
tirely of starts and jumps. In the burn-
ing language of the advertisement, they con-
found anatomists and checkmate the accepted
doctrines of physiological science, and we are glad
to hear it. We hate physiological science.
Rickards’ troop at the Opera House have put on a
new programme which, though dealing largely
with the ancient subject of mothers-in-law, is in
some respects the best they have yet produced,
and they also confound physiological science,
which is having a bad time of it at present.
*# # #
The Crystal Palace Skating Rink in York-
street, Sydney, is announced to open in a blaze of
glory this (Thursday) evening, when 12 bicycle
clubs will inaugurate the proceedings by a pro-
cession amid 1000 square feet of mirrors and
electric lights, while a band of 15 performers will
extract noble melody from the brass trumpet and
other things. Five thousand pairs of skates
and 30,000 square feet of space are but feeble
traces of the lavish element which pervades this
rink, and the rinker who loses his balance at the
Crystal Palace will come down on the back of his
head amid surroundings of gilding and illumina-
tion which will make it seem better to fall at this
establishment than to remain on his feet at many
other places of entertainment.
## # *
“Dick Turpin’s Ride to York” has been
added this week to the other attractions of Wirth’s
Circus. nnd the simple-winded multitude take i 1
in. It is an open question whether Dick Turpin
could ride at all when he was alive, but the
balance of evidence supports the theory that he
could hang on to the ruins of a tram-horse for a
mile or so, provided the animal did not travel
faster than a walk. He was a man who towed
away derelict mules by the hair, and occasionally
murdered bed-ridden widows who had no relatives,
but he looks well in a sawdust arena and helps to
swell the gate-money. For which reasons he will
gallop at the Haymarket and soak himself in
crime till further orders.
*# # •
“ Sweet Simplicity,” an opera, music and
libretto both by Mr. F. A. Packer, has just been
produced at Government House, Hobart. The
author candidly admits that his chorus are a lot
of interfering persons who have no business what-
ever with the plot, and that the date of the story
is any time within the last 300 years—in fact, the
dialogue and costumes, he-thinks, will suit any
period from Herod right down to Parkes. The
tenor hero is named Spooneo, and Mr. Packer ex-
plains that he doesn’t win the simple village
maiden because hitherto the tenor has always
done that, and the invariable success of that good
young singing person has made him feel sick. An
opera with so much candour in it ought to be a
§reat success, and we hope to see it soon on the
ydney and Melbourne boards.
#: * # *
Miss Lydia von Finkelstein’s religious dis-
courses are said to be exercising an influence
for good over her Much-Ttravelled manager,
and the Rev. R. S. Smythe, D.D., is grow-
ing holy in his old age. This is as it should
be. Most showmen get vicious with ad-
vancing years, and if the moral elevation of
R.S.S, and his bright and shining light should
help to reclaim even one of the tribe, that gentle-
man will never regret the day when he ran a lec-
turess from Palestine through the lost regions of
the South Pacific.
•# # #
A Parisian author has recently published
a lisb of those plays which may be properly
attended by those who are in mourning. Another
list will probably follow, suitable for people who
have lost their partners for life—in the Divorce
Court.
## # #
Miss Von Finkelstein is travelling for her
health. Miss Lydia Yon Finkelstein (the younger
lady and lecturess) is travelling for her wealth.
## * #
Madame Helene Crosmond, the well-known
operatic singer, shot herself in a London cab the
other day. She had the misfortune to be born of
Madame Rachel, the wicked old hag who dis-
pensed “beauty for ever,” and ended a swindling
career in gaol. The family taint hung around
Madame Crosmond’s professional career, and is
supposed to have driven her to temporary in-
sanity—which reminds us that many people in
Australia would go mad if they had weak nerves.
** # #
Irving, it seems, will have another try to
play Macbeth, a character for which his legs were,
are, and always will be peculiarly unsuited.
Neither is gentle Ellen Terry the clfiss of actress
to cry. “Give me the daggers” with due
solemnity, for even her Juliet falls short of Essie
Anderson Jennings* in the “Rough on Rats
apiandff Essie should pI«V Lady Macbeth, and
our William might shake his gory locks as
Banquo’s ghost.
## # #
Veteran Sims Reeves appears to be fairly
played out at last. He has been singing at enter-
tainments where a juvenile piano-thumper formed
the chief . attraction, and a London paper, aftt r
commenting upon the infant prodigy, winds up
with—“ Of the rest of the concert there is no occa-
sion to speak.” Poor Sims Reeves comes in
among the “ rest.”
## # #
Next Saturday a band of horsemen from
far-off Texas, who have earned fame and broken
limbs in the arena of Buffalo Bill’s Wild West
Show, will make their preliminary appearance at
Coogee Aquarium, and for the first time the Aus-
tralian bush larrikin and the American cowbov
wiU have an opportunity of comparing notes- and
drinks. The strangers are reported to be able
and willing to ride anything from a goat to an
elephant, and should be able to teach the Corn-
stalk riders 24 new ways of breaking their necks
on top of an animal which has for centuries passed
itself off as the chief friend of man.
## # #
Irving has arranged to tour his company
through the Continent in 1890, letting the Lyceum
to Edwin Booth and Lawrence Barrett during
his absence. Manager Bateman, who first
brought out Irving ar> a “star,” was talking
of taking his pet to France and Germany
twelve years ago, maintaining that “ The
Bells,” with its strength lying in dumb action,
would “ fetch ” any audience breathing. But
Bateman died before he could carry out his
grand schemes. Irving’s latest production,
“ Faust, ’ ought to go splendidly in the land of
Goethe.
## # *
Sarah Bernhardt, we read, has an antique
girdle of medallions, on which are signs of the
zodiac in superb chasing. The zone was a gift
from Napoleon 111., who received it from Abdallah
Bey, of Egypt. She is never without it—some-
times it is worn about her dress, and sometimes
around her neck. It holds the gathers of house
and stage dresses, and always encircles her night-
robes. Aside from the worship of the girdle she
loves a knife, “because it cuts, and is true—
cruelly true.” In all great undertakings she keeps
a blade in her hand or before her eyes as a re-
minder that failure may be mended, but never
made perfect.
•# # #
James Berry, hangman to Her Majesty and
the rest of the Royal Family, was, at latest
dates, arranging for a lecturing tour in the States.
Six weeks at £2OO per week. It was Berry’s in-
tention to deliver discourses on Crime and
Criminals, illustrated with dissolving views of the
law’s list dread sentence. His “properties” in-
clude a beautiful model of the drop, an'assortment
of nooses, and personal relics of the people he has
attended in their final moments. But we fear
Berry’s gruesome expedition was sat upon by the
Home Secretary, for that unfeeling functionary
quite recently prohibited Her Majesty’s myrmidon
from warbling comic songs at a provincial concert,
on the eve of an execution. James had
been billed all over the town for “ One
more Drop before we part, with break-
down,” and “The Night before Larry was
stretched,” when his projected show was
vetoed by telegram from London. We wouldn’t
be surprised to learn, at any moment, that Her
Majesty was looking out for someone to replace
her wild Berry. By the way, a real baronet, Sir
Claude de Crespigny, has actt d as deputy assistant
hangman on one or two occasions. A little family
influence would get the more important billet for
dear Sir Claude.
*# # *
“ The Drinks of Great Men ” is a subject
which has not so far received the attention which
it deserves, and the same . may be said of great
women. Madame Patti consumes soda-water :
Sara Bernhardt swallows absinthe, with cayenne-
pepper in it, and on the strength of this liquid
gas-light she can struggle through five acts of
ceaseless murder with unparalleled success ; the
Jersey Lily takes claret ; Ellen Terry patro-
nises soda-and-milk ; and Lotta pins her faith
to a mixture of egg, sherry, and sugar.
The present writer takes anything he can get.
Ada Ward made her first appearance in Australia
at Melbourne Opera House in the “Danicheffs”
on the 25th April, 1877, but what she drinks isn't
accurately known. Dorothy Dene’s liquor is also
undefined. This young lady has suddenly risen
to fame in England through the patronage of Sir F.
Leighton, and in the blaze of her borrowed glory i t
has been ascertained that her real name is Pulleng
and that old Pulleng'was a coarse sort of man in
the retail coal-trade. Miss Leonora Braham had a
tooth hauled out recently. Down in Melbourne,
one well-known actor was looking for another the
other day, and as the man he was luoking for now
wears his head in a sling it is presumed he found
him. Certain people say that a favourite
actress, who now boasts of her wealth of golden
hair, was quite a pretty, raven-tressed little
maid before she made her debut. Possibly
so. Those whom the gods love dye young,
Irving Bishop, thoughtreader, has collapsed from
overwork, and is now in a private asylum.
It is reporttd that “Professor” Kennedy
will shortly return from England with a
number of new subjects and other novelties.
Owing to the depressed state of the European
labour market gentlemen can be engaged to eat
candles and have their hats filled with flour at a
low figure. Mr. and Miss Dampier are touring the
country districts of N.S. W. with immense success.
The S.A. Advertiser, the other day, published a
gigantic obituary of Billy Elton, the favourite
comedian, mistaking him for his namesake who
died on board the Burwah. One of his Adelaide
admirers, however, feeling almost sure that
Bill was immortal, telegraphed briefly : “Are
you dead ? ” The reply was : “ Still revolving
on my own axis and able to drink whisky.”
M‘Mahon and Leitch’s company were last heard
of at Mackay (Q.), and their footmarks were then
pointing southwards. The Federal Minstrels
reached the same place in an open boat, which -
the tide being low —they were compelled to shove
before them most of the way up the river, while
they waded through the mud. In the course of
these proceedings Sam Keenan’s open mouth was
once or twice mistaken for an alligator’s,
and a slight scare ensued. Miss Ada Ward
is now in Sydney, and will appear at
the Opera House on July 7 with a good
company, and R. B. Wiseman as manager. The
Rookhampton reporters have got Hanlan on the
brain so badly that they recently described Leitch
as “ the popular Canadian.” Thus is the comedian
once more laid low. Sells Brothers are reported
to be now cogitating upon the advisability of an
Australian tour, and as soon as they can secure
steamer accommodation they intend to bring
their big circus and menagerie into southern lati-
tudes. It is said that the vessels now running
cannot handle the small live-stock, to say nothing
of the elephants
O ! for the well-remembsred days
When, pale and picturesque,
We wore a pair of masher stays
And doted on burlesque—
When Gaiety was in our heart,
And in our glass champagne;
The Then and Now are far apart,
We ate our cake and lost our tart —
They'll not come back again.
The girls as e’er seemed smart and fair,
With barren still their queen—
The show like those of long ago,
Although so changed the scene ;
We sauntered home, a trifle bored,
Upon the past to brood :
And brooding fell asleep and snored,
Until in dreams our youth restored,
We were again a dood.


Q ONE; NEE I) SUFF E R.
The Premature Decay of Beauty in many of our
Women, and the rapid advance of Age, argue an
unhealthy condition of the System, or a palpable
neglect of their sanatory status. What is com-
monly known among the sex as “ Ennuiis no-
thing more or less than lassitude; resulting from
some defective organism or special affection. It
matters not how delicate the frame, how sensitive
the system, how exquisitely strung the nerves,
moderate doses of WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS will
eradicate the causes and produce the most bene-
ficial results.
N.B —When
WOLFE'S, as
SCHNAPPS,
purchasing Schnapps, sppcifiy
ft is the ONLY GENUINE
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-whitk Patknt Roi.i.br Fi.otr is the
hest in tbe market.*
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
When next you hate try hemell 8 Sfcow-WHITH
Rot.i.Fa F’l.onu. ar.d yrmr hrtari wil be white ae snow.
PEPPER
Solt
Somebody has gone to the trouble of re-
marking that “ most of ,the great men of the
vVorld now living are advanced in years.” Then
follows a long list of names (including such as
Lord Granville), few of which had attained great-
ness at the age when hardworked men are called
upon to expire. Slow music i
Everybody is a visionary at times. Every-
Ixxly is at times sentimental —even policemen.
The present writer was both not long since. He
was sentimental (to order) in writing the following
duet for a variety company; he was a visionary
in expecting to get anything for it.. The company
burst up prematurely—chiefly owing to the gas-
man at the hall they had hired (all arrangements
of this larger sort were made easily enough) wait-
ing to be paid in advance, or something of the
sort. Anyhow, the duet is of no use to the writer.
Perhaps it might be utilised by some itinerant
show in a district where the soil is soft and there
are no stones, or pieces of wood, or spare vegetable
produce lying around to tempt the jeunesse doree
of the place to displays of practical humour, and
where eggs are too dear to be wasted in encores.
Here it is, at any rate :
In Australia the air is thick with limited
liability companies, and the syndicate rises like an
anarchist out of a cold bath—“ cometh up like a
flower ” doesn’t even begin to be sudden enough
to express the nature of the movement. Over at
the Thames (N.Z.) an unhealthily smart man re-
cently realised this fact, and resolved to make
enough money out of it to get away and remain
there so that he might not be heard of again. He
was a cold, practical man with a glassy eye aiid a
dull, unfeeling stare, and times were skimp with
him ip the land of the Maori and the moa. In the
course of a long and stormy existence he had sue-,
cessfully disencumbered himself of assets, and
he owned practically nothing except a large garden,
an overcoat, and a few carrots —and only those
who have tried can tell how unsatisfactory a thing
carrots are to draw over your feet on a cold winter
night. But he turned the garden into a mining
claim, and sold it for £3OO to a stranger from .Aus-
tralia, and then he fled suddenly and violently
and left the stranger sinking a. shaft to test the
property. Presently the stranger gave up sinking
and took to swearing instead, and when he was
through swearing ho sold out to a syndicate for
£OOOO, and retired at a run. The syndicate then
sold to a company for £lOO,OOO, and split the wind
and scared the rotating earth with the rapidity of
their retreat, and now the company has got the
property and sits weeping amid the ruins of an
unwholesome ambition. There is a hint here for
the man who is thirsting to be rich, and that
hint is—go and be a syndicate.
• * •
It is said that there are more claimants to
royal descent in America than in any other
country in the world. Perhaps this is because
there are so many Irish there. It is hardly neces-
sary to say that every Irishman has had an an-
cestor who was at some time or other a king. In
the grand ould Milesian times the possession of a
pitcher of usquebaugh (whisky) made the owner a
monarch —while the liquor lasted. This will ac-
count for the miraculously short reigns of the
early Irish Kings, also for the fearfully high rate
of mortality amongst them. Nearly all of them
died in battle in defence of their kingdom —that
is to say their jug. The present writer had an
ancestor who was an Irish King, but he only suc-
ceeded to the throne, after a desperate conflict
with the potentate in possession, to find the
pitcher empty. This, perhaps, will account for
the tremendous thirst he transmitted to his des*
THE AUSTRALIAN MILITARY SPIRIT OF THE FUTURE.
CAPTAIN FERGUSON (of the grand Bungledong Hayfoot): "LOOK HERE, THAT ISN'T
THE WAY TO PRESENT. LOWER THE LEFT HAND, MAN. YOU'VE
BEEN IN THE REGIMENT A MONTH AND CAN’T PRESENT ARMS
PROPERLY YOU’LL NEVER MAKE A SOLDIER."
PRIVATE SMITH: “ALL RIGHT. THEN I’LL GIVE YE A WEEK’S NOTICE!
THERE, NOW!”
cendants. By the way, in this connection, it is
curious to notice how many pubs are kept by
Irishmen. The old instinct, no doubt.
There has lately been a furious official quarrel in
Perth (W.A.), and being a small place, and,
moreover, a miserably socially-differentiated one,
party-feeliDg ran high and much metaphorical
blood was spilt. The settlers, of course, took the
more democratic side, and officialdom backed the
Governor almost to a man. Cnief Justice Onslow
was the target for the vice-regal spleen, and the
Bench stuck to their legal chieftain with a splen-
did pertinacity which would have done credit to
a veteran horse-leech. Anyone who feels in-
terested in the squabble may learn all about it by
reading the' telegraphic reports in the S.M,
Herald and the Sydney D.T., each paper taking
an opposite view—the view supplied by
the local impartial telegrapher to either
paper—that of the Herald being, as psual,
mulishly conservative, that of the D. T.
bordering closely on the Radical. Right on top of
the fracas came the election of a member to the
empyreal heights of the Legislative Council, and a
Mr. Horgan, who is stated to have denounced the
Government and the official people of the place as
“crawlers, cringers, toadies, vampires and rep-
tiles,” was elected by 420 votes. He beat his op-
ponent by the narrow majority of three. Thus,
although his margin of righteous men did not fulfil
the numerical condition that would have saved
Gomorrah, the cause of democracy in W. Austra-
lia is steadily progessing, and the next Radical
may secure a majority of fifth-eights of a man
beside the three in his battle with the bloated
oligarchy. The new member embodies the sym-
pathies of those who took the part of the Chief
Justice against the Governor, and is clearly a
Horgan of public opinion introduced iato an
assembly which was badly wasting for one.
Heigho ! ’tis true the men of note
Existing in this world to-day
(A hundred cases we might quote)
Had snowy locks, or iron grey,
Or none at all, upon the pate
Before the papers called ’em “ great.
’Tis seldom that a mortal young
As statesman can arrive at fame —
Can deftly use a lying tongue,
Or lying pen (it’s all the same) j
In managing affairs of State
One must be old before he’s “ great.
Some virtue lingers in the heart
Of every fellow for a time,
And conscience-prickings make, him start
Until he passes manhood’s prime ;
Who cares about another’s fate
In commerce can’t be really “ great.’
Who helps a brother, in the fight,
Nor jumps upon him when he’s down
Kind actions would in kind requite,
Or gives a beggar half-a-crown
Has little chance to consummate^
His happiness by being “great. ’
The painter plies an ardent brush
Until his brightest years have flown,
On works that carping critics crush
Because the artist isn’t known ;
Too oft he falls beneath a weight
Of trouble ere his name is great.
’Neath marble columns lies the dust
Of writers —modern England’s pride
Who wanted in their day a crust,
And slowly of starvation died ;
The flesh was weak, they couldn’t wait
To be among the living great.
Men twaddle on at weary length
Of “ Greatness,” asking whence it springs .
The sources twin are Health and Strength I
And while your ailing poet sings’
He stops to cough and cries “ Too late „
The world will learn that we were great! ’
THE TOLL KEEPER.
Air—Anything you like.
He (entering with riding-whip, &c.) :
Oh, open the toll-gate quick, bonnie lassie,
My sweetheart has passed here, and I must ride
fast.
She :
Who may your sweetheart be, my bonnie laddie ?
por nobody’s been here and nobody s passed.
He :
Oh, you would know her, I know, bonnie lassie,
By the gold of hsr hair and the blue of her eyes.
She (demurely):
No, I would not know her then, bonnie laddie—
And blue-eyed young women don’t drop from the
skies.
, He (with passion):
She’s the light of my eyes and the sun of my soul;
To tell you her charms would all language surpass.
She (with affected indifference):
And her name ?
He :
Have you never looked into a glass ?
She (pretending to misunderstand him):
But who is your sweetheart, say, my bonnie
laddie,
This light of your eyes and this sun of your soul;
He (throwing his arm around her):
Oh, you should know her, I know, bonnie lassie—
(kissing her):
She dwells at the Toll-gate and gathers the toll.
Aboriginalities.
This is a story of love and ruth, and a
ponderous widow scaling 20 stone, who owns pro-
perty and leaves her huge foot-prints in the slurry
about a small township in Western Victoria. She
is an amicable female and wants to have no ro« s
and no fist-fights in the vicinity of her rural home.
Consequently things which are transpiring round
there just now tend to harrow her feelings and
make her snort. She is possessed of land and
lucre in her own right. She has also two suitors,
but can’t say which will suit her best), hence the
flowery, rhetorical blasphemy and the clang of
battle which disturb the ome quiet home of the
bulky relict. The two men conceived a heartfelt
interest in the full sized female a few months
after her lord sent in his application for a lease on
the Golden Shore, and grew accustomed to drop-
ping in and helping her to sustain her great grief
when the nights were fine or otherwise. Of course
the house was not big enough to hold two men
under the circumstances, without crowding them
on to each other’s corns ;so they fell out—out of
the windows, mostly. Sometimes they would
fight 40 rounds in the widow’s kitchen, and break
the furniture and fixtures, and spill blood over
the spotless floor; at other times they would debate
the question in the garden', and kick up half an
acre of cabbage-plants, and a ton of young
potatoes. One amorous youth, with a vacancy for
hair on the roof of his head, and a smirk like an
alligator that has been reared on missionary,
would drop in early after tea, and moor himself
close beside the well-developed lady of the house,
before the cheerful fire, and lean his head up
against her, and murmur his sentiments in accents
soft and low, telling'her she was his own “ ick’e
darling ” and his “lovey dovey,” and pouring out
the great wealth of his affection in similar cheer-
ful observations. But presently the demon doubt
would prompt him to take a walk, and skirmish
for his enemy. Likely enough, his rival
would be shored up against the. other
side of the widow, whispering ecstatic pro-
testations, and looking hog-like in his happi-
ness, and serene in the unconsciousness of the
immediate vicinity of the opposition till the other
fellow opened hostilities by coming up behind,
and trying to jolt his eye out. Whilst the battle
raged the widow had to compress herself into a
small space, and ward off flying fragments with a
wire meat-safe. No widow with proper fee.ings
could suffer this long and keep in flesh, but relief
was pending—the rivals began to discover that
the exercise was too severe for them to sustain,
and they now content themselves by hanging
about the home of the 2801 b. lady, glowering upon
each other with fiendish malice and hissing vile
inuendos, but only breaking out into open war-
fare when one ventures within the house. The
heartless monsters will permit no other man to
try his luck, and the poor widow has the sympathy
of all her neighbours in her dire distress. We
hereby express our sorrow for the cumbersome
relict and offer her the loan of The Bulletins
office blunderbus,
* * *
The male residents of Baileston (Vic.)
have been imposed upon by a languid stranger
with a dirty face, an air of meekness, and a suit
of clothes which had the appearance of having
been cast off by a Chinaman. He wormed him-
self into the confidence of the inhabitants by his
unobtrusive bearing, consumptive cough, and in-
teresting pallor. He slept in stables, barns, and
hollow logs, wanted no work to do, and was so
wan and weary that it almost broke his heart to
scratch his back against a fence. He said labour
was not good for his complaint, and the people’s
hearts went out towards him, and they advised
him to take something for it, and he took some-
thing every time—taking it warm with sugar and
lemon as a general thing, for there was one thing
lie could do—he could drink like a sixteen-stone
man with an iron constitution. Drinking was his
speciality; he had cultivated that art to the
detriment of all others, but despite this natural
gift he was not proud, and when the wondering
miners, astounded by his prowess, called him a
daisy, and averred their belief that he could dtink
a brewery dry, he veiled his eyes and modestly
replied yes, he believed he could drink a trifle.
There is a cockie in the district who has made a
name for himself as a receptacle for malt liquors :
his neighbours believed he had no equal till the
sallow stranger came amongst them, for, on one
occasion, he had drunk two gallons of beer and
then run 500 yards for a wager. This capacious
agriculturist became jealous of his reputation,
and offered to bet a large sum that the stranger
could not break his record. ,Several influential
denizens of Baileston straightway interviewed
the wan dead beat, and on the strength of
his eager protestations that he could drink
20 pints and then run a mile, and sub-
sequently stand on his head upon the ape* of
a fence-post without a quaver, they snapped the
cockie up, and covered his wager. The exhibition
of ground and lofty drinking was arranged for the
following Sunday, and on that auspicious, not to
say sacred occasion the ailing stranger shored
himself up against the bar of the Traveller’s Rest,
his backers stood round, the landlady bared her
brawny arms, the umpire gave the signal for start-
ing, and the first pint was driven home. Pint
after pint followed it down, and the favourite
blinked his eyes and assumed a look of ineffable
bliss. Time was called after the sixteenth pewter
and the stranger was allowed a spell to recover
his wind, whilst the committee measured off the
500 yards that he had to cover to scoop the stakes ;
but on returning the favourite’s backers received a
rude shock on discovering their man stowed away
under a form in a deep slumber. They clattered
at his ribs with their iron-bound boots and
hauled him up to the scratch, but he was drunk
even unto paralysis, and, when they let him
go, he stupidly pitched on to his nose, and lay
where he fell like a gorged frog; they fetched
him up again, but it was of no avail, he hung
limp on their hands, and remained serenely un-
conscious of the fact that he had not fulfilled his
contract, and, as the triumphant cocky walked off
with the stakes in his hat, the stranger’s backers
realised that they had been victimised by a low
wretch in old clothes, and they tossed him into a
dam and, dragging him out, hauled him beyond
the precincts of the township and posted a notice
in his hat, giving him legal warning that if he
was seen again in Baileston he would be fallen
upon by a large crowd and mutilated beyond re-
cognition. He never returned—he has probably
gone to inaugurate similar contests in other places.
• • - *
Away in a red-shirted corner of the hot-
test part of the land between Sydney and Cape
York, dwells a roystering P.M. who looketh upon
the rum when it is red and the gin when it is
crystal and sees stars growing on gum-trees. A
Sunday or two ago he reeled into the local gaol
with his heart full of the milk of human kindness
and his skin full of the milk which is distilled
from the sugar-cane. He had reached the festive
and human-bond-of-brotherhood stage of boozi-
ness, and his soul yearned for sympathy.
In a corner of the lock-up yard he espied
two disconsolate and reckless-looking creatures
sunning themselves and exchanging grunts of
condolence. The beaming beak 'parabolaed
across the yard: “What the— (hie) —shotted
cartridge are you fellows doing there ?” “ Wait-
ing for you to try us, you blessed old Catling-gun.”
was the mournful response. “You've got to see
whether we wilted that nameless steer or not, you
know !” “ Oh ! get {hie) out of this, and
don't let me see you {hie) round again,” vociferated
the man of law ; and forthwith he threw open
wide the hopeless poitalsof the yard, and drove
them into the wilderness. Then he sat down and
discussed the remainder of a bottle of rum. By-
and-bye the sergeant returned, and was almost
paralysed to find that the cage was, empty and the
birds had flown. The sergeant’s wife, however,
who had witnessed the little comedy, cleared the
mystery up, and the sergeant' sought the alcalde
in the yard sacred to the tramp of the offender.
But he was not there. He had finished his
rum, and had reeled home to get more. Hot,
parched, and par-broiled the sergeant tracked
him to his rocky lair, and remonstrated
between the intervals of fusillades of hiccoughs
with that P.M. on the enormity of his conduct
and the never-to-be-too-much-apprehended conse-
quences thereof. “ Oh ! shut up,” howled the
rum-soaked beak, “go and cannister-grape well
arrest them again and don't worry me unless you’ve
got a new brand of liquid sheol.” The sergeant
had a wild and wonderful ride across the plains
that night in pursuit of the escapees, but all to no
purpose. He discovered them on Monday morn-
ing, drunk and beatifically snoring sweetly in the
main street and “ run ’em in. ”
• * •
Poor Councillor Fleming, who claims to
be the oldest Victorian native, has been refused
permission by his brethren to carve the story of
his nativity on the parapet of a bridge. Time
alone will bring Fleming the bubble reputation
which man’s inhumanity to man (especially in
town councils) prevents him from blowing just at
present. Before his colony wastes its substance
on a centenary this interesting man will possibly
be represented by a granite obelisk. A suggestion
for epitaph is respectfully submitted : —
Beneath th : s tombstone Fleming lies,
The first born on Victorian territory,
And for his infant pluck and enterprise
His name henceforth shall surely merit glory;
Thought nothing, of while yet alive,
And treated in a.manner shabby,
Now that he’s dead his deeds survive—
He was our pioneer babby.
* •
Mr. Reginald Murray, the Victorian Go-
vernment geologist, tells the following story.
Enthusiastic Coal Prospector in Gipp.sland : “Mr.
Murray, 1 wish you would go over and have a
look at my claim. Will you?” Mr. Murrayj
“ Ce-er-tarhly. ” (Mr. Murray stutters slightly,
but gracefully.) He examines the ground, and
returns in the course of half-an-hour. To him the
E.C.P., eagerly: “Well, what do you think of
it?” Mr. Murray, solemnly: “Are you a-a-
Cliris-istian ?” “ Yes.” “ Do you b-b-eiieve the
world will c-c-ome to an end one day “ Yes.”
“And bs b-burnt up?” “Certainly.” “Then
s-s-ink yoursha-aft there.”


Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, best Snow-whitb
Patknt Rot.i.kr Ft, our. It ; greatest success Of' the
Personal Items.
Baronet Clarke, of Melbourne, has a habit
of distributing £2O in charity every Saturday
morning.
Marshil LsboeuE is dead. As a soldier,
he was a sort of French Duke of Cambridge, and
that was all.
It is proposed to lessen the noise of ’buses
ixi the Sydney streets by the use of leathern
washers on the axles.
The Melbourne Exhibition Commissioners
have refuse! to grant a free pais to the holder of
the first miner’s right issued in Victoria.
Mr. A. J. Riley’s term of Mayoralty in
Sydney cost him £BOO3. No one can accuse him
of not having “ done the thing in style.”
The ex-Empre3S Eugenie is growing weary
of living in the. old world, and has a longing to
. spend the remainder of her days in America.
“ What did we tell you ? ” London papers
say it is unlikely that Bishop Harry will return to
Australia. Mrs. Barry’s liealch is the excuse.
Bismarck emptied 18 selfczer-bottle3 dur-
ing his 75 minutes’ speech in the Imperial Parlia-
ment. He was drinking seltzer and cognac all the
time.
It is alleged that only one mining specula-
tion of Miss Cornwell—the “ Princess Midas ”
has turned out a failure. This is a remarkable
record.
Mr. J. J. Dalton, a nephew of Mr. Thomas
Dalton, M.L.A. for Orange, N S.W., has been
admitted-to the Irish Bar, and intends practising
in N.S.W.
Plunger Benzon, “the Jubilee Juggins,”
once of Australia, who has lost most of his large
fortune on English turf, is now known as “ the
broken Jug.”
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, who was styled
by Mr. Purves, Q C , “ a journeyman judge,” was
called to the English Bar on 30th April, 1863—a
quarter of a century ago.
A park in the electorate of R. Burdett
Smith, M.P., of N.S.W., was the other day
baptised “Burdett Park.” Thus is Smith put
aside that Burdett may be perpetuated.
The mantel-pieces for Sir W. J. Clarke’s
new and ugly mansion at Jolimont (Vic.) have
cost £BOO each. It is said that the place itself,
without furniture, will cost over £lOO,OOO.
Oh dit that Mr. T. Burtb, the MooiVa
'(S.A.) barrister, “ relying on high Governmental
influence at home, applied for the governorship of
South Australia”—and was told that the Secre-
tary of State declined to entertain his application.
A son of one of the wealthiest and best-
known members of the Victorian Parliament is a
porter on the N.S.W. railways. The political
parent is a firm believer in making his sons earn
their own living and commence their career on
their own resources.
Sir Duncan Cameron, who succeeded the
'“Kerry Bull” (as General Chute was affec-
tionately nicknamed by the soldiers) and Sir
Thomas Pratt in the command of the troops in
•N.Z., during the Maori war of ’63, has just died.
He had passed his 80th year.
Angus Cameron, Chairman of Committees
in the N.S.W. Assembly, who has been threatened
with paralysis for some time past, threatens to
pull round again and disappoint the numerous
' aspirants for his official post. Mr. Cameron dur-
ing the past few weeks has wonderfully improved
in health.
Mr. E. Eddy, assistant manager of the
Caledonian Railway, who has been appointed
'chairman of the N.S.W. Railway Board at a
salary of £3OOO annually, “ stands oft. 2in. in his
'stockings.” As one of Mr. Eddy’s very first tasks
will probably be the thumping of a politician or
‘two as a protest against outside interference, his
'inches may help him along.
A Sydney daily thus speaks of “ Don’t-
'you-feel well ” Smith, M.P., as he appeared at
the Intercolonial Freetrade Conference.: —
“ Standing at the head of the chairman’s table, bounded
'ln front by whole acres of shirt-front, with his ears em-
bedded in a gale of collar, and his face lit up by whole
'fields of diamonds, his very presence as a representative
Australian would be sufficient to command the respect of
cevery foreign nation under the sun.”
Mr. Ja3. .Torpy, editor of the Orange
'((N.S.W.) Advocate, is perhaps the only colonial
./journalist who has been challenged to fight a duel.
The challenge was written.in the blood of the man
who was anxious for Mr. Torpy’s gore and arose
‘out of a dispute over the Lambing Flat riots, in
which the challenger took a prominent part. This
'was many years ago, but, up to date, the duel has
r not come off.
The last official act of ex-Governor Lofcus
■was a humane one and known to few. Among his
' correspondence received on the morning of his
departure was a petition praying that the mother
•of several little children should be released from
her sentence of six months’ imprisonment for
-stealing food. Lord Loftus immediately sign ed
' the pardon, and among the few who lamented his
'.departure was a poor woman.
Perhaps the biggest fee ever received by a
'N.S.W. barrister for a single -speech was one of
*£200!) given to the Hon. W. B. Dailey with a
brief to advocate as counsel at the bar of the
1 Legislative Council the claims of the opiumed pig-
' tail when the Chinese poll-tax was proposed during
’ the reign of the last Parkes’ Administration. Mr
'Dailey is, however, chivalrous ; he can stand up
iin his p’ace in the Council and chortle for the
Chow without holding in his red right hand an
document of many pages.
There recently died at Liverpool (Eng, ),
"at the early age of 39,.a Victorian native who has
made at least a little mark in the history of our
time. Captain Rupert; Latrobe Lonsdale was the
- son of Captain William Lonsdale, the first P.M.
of Port Phillip. Young Lonsdale was born in
■Melbourne in ’49, joined the 74th Highlanders in
68, left the army in ’74, and was then appointed a
special magistrate in South Africa. He raised
Lonsdale’s ” Horse and commanded that corps
r till the conclusion of the Zulu war. He lately
1 held ■ several appointments on the Gold Coast,
“where he was seized with, illness. Then he was
' nvalided to England and died.
Of the .(78 members who made up the
FLegiklative Assembly .-of Victoria in 1861, .but six
c remain in that Chamber —two Scotch, two Irish,
itand two English: Duncan Gillies, the present
iiPremier, who is a professional politician ; William
M’Lellan, the “Dove of Ararat”; Captain
M‘Mahon, an ex-Speaker ; Peter Lalor, of Eureka
; Stockade fame, also an ex-Speaker ; Smith, of the
large feet; and the little sporting medico, L.. L.
Smith, whose address is “late the residence, of
/the Governor.” Of the 30 members .who cons,ti-
tuted the Victorian Upper House in the same
year, not one, we believe, now remains in that
I)ranch of the Legislature, and only one still
assists m making laws for the country —hat one
being the veteran comedian, George Coppin, who
lias dodged time and the gout, and now occupies a
seat in the Assembly.
Mrs. Arthur Sfcannard (“ John Strange
Winter ”) author of “ Bootle's Baby,” has during
the last three years run out'l2 books. Mrs. Stan-
dard published her first story in 1874, since which
dite she has issued 42 novels, several of which
were of the regulation three volume length. At
present she is engaged on three stories —viz.,
(^ Bootle’s Children,” in the Lady's Pictorial;
•Prmcass Sarah,” ia the Leisure Hour; and
Beautiful Jim,” in the Weekly Times, and
Echo. “Here is a woman,” remarks a London
writer, “ who writes 42 novels in 12 years, and
who says she has read more ‘than any other
English author.’ How modest; and where are
the 42 novels to be procured ? lam dying to read
them all, and. I do hope when she has written
Lootle s Children,’ she will write ‘Bootle’s
lather, ‘Bootle’s Mother.’ ‘Bootle’s Sister,’
Booties Brother,’ ‘Bootle’s Uncle,’ ‘Bootle's
Aunt,’ ‘Bootle’s Mother-in-Law,’ ‘ Bootle’s Grand-
father,’ ‘Bootle’s Grandmother,’ ‘ Bootle’s Sister-
m-Law, ‘Bootle’s Rrother-in-Law,’ ‘Bootle’s
Second Cousin Once Removed,’ and so on. We
should like to know all about Bootle.”
Mr. F. W . Chesson, whose name at least
was well-known to all Australians as that of the
Secretary of the Aborigines’'Protection Society,
died the other day in London, aged 54. He
was one of the wariest and shrewdest of tacticians
and the most accomplished wire-puller and lobby-
ist of the present generation. A couple of years
ago a pressman was speaking to him about the ap-
pointment of a certain colonial Governor., when he
astonished the scribe by saying, “I had a good
deal of trouble to prevent So-and-So,” meaning
another Governor, “getting that appointment.
Vve (the Aborigines Protection Society) felt he
was the wrong man for the place, so every night
for a week or more I got a different Member” of
Parliament to go up to the Under-Secretary for
the Colonies in the Lobby of the House, and ex-
press a hope that the appointment was not going
to be made. I also got several peers in like man°-
ner to speak to the Secretary of State himsellf,
BOTH THE MINISTRY AND THE OPPOSITION FAVOUR MB. MELVILLE'S CANDIDATURE FOR
THE CHAIRMANSHIP OF COMMITTEES.
and, as & consequence, he was never appointed ! ”
By this ingenious method, the Colonial Office was
persuaded that there really existed a general ob-
jection to-the appointment, whereas, in fact, the
objection was only Mr. Chesson’s. He was at one
period of his career a journalist, pure and simple,
and to the end he would at times turn aside from
aborigines and their affairs, to write for the Daily
News or Echo.
Recent mar.ket quotations from Armidale
(N.S.W.) “Wheat, 23. 9d. per bushel; Hay, £2
per ton; Potatoes, £1 10s. psr ton.” There is only
a limited market even .at these, prices.
Even the blizzard didn’t check the flow of
American humour. After the storm a New York
shop keeper stuck this in the snow heap
outside his door. “ Kindly take it away—there
is no charge. ”
The Warrah N.S.W. Co. have arranged
for the erection of 50 shearing machines;in their
sheds during the coming: season. Thereare 150,000
sheep to shear at Warrah, and if the machines
work well one large shed, at all events, will be
closed to the old system.
Thus .Judge Dowling, of N.S.W. “ I
say now, as I .have said before, there ought to be
written over the doors of every gaol in this colony
three words-—Drink, drink, drink.” What non-
sense ! The one trouble of the gaol-boarders is
that they can’t get at anything in the way of
“ drink.”
The customary procession of horses in the
Ascot Stakes (says a cablegram) was abandoned
because the Emperor of Germany had suffered a
relapse. .9’he ramifications of grovel are as grains
.of sand on the sad, sea shore. If they had stopped
the races, or sfiut up the refreshment bars, or pro-
hibited the nobility from swearing while the poor,
brave fellow over in .Germany' was fighting for
breath, we cpuld have seen some sense in it. “No
spaoking "was considered a proper mark of respect
at the late Emperor’s funeral, and they might
have temporarily suppressed that radical institu-'
tion. on this solemn occasion. But to abandon a
parade, of horses before a race which everybody
had got a bet on, was the most hypocritical way of
worshipping the golden image that ever suggested
itself to the “ Upper classes'.”
POLITICAL
POINTS
Phe cavalry of Russia is as great as that of
Germany and Austria combined.
r , | l e, I \ hoUra is now a working day in Paris,
it had been eleven up to the recent change.
Several N.S.W. members of Parliament
are anxious for the imposition of a tax on Social
Purity Societies.
One member of the N.S.W. Assembly
U ves the Refreshment Committee £35 for drinks.
10 tunes makes 1400.
Land in Collins-street, Melbourne, sold the
Other day for £lBOO per foot. Scott’s Hotel is
built upon this golden block.
New Zealand is going straight for Protec-
tion. Additional taxation of £200,000 will be
entirely borne by the Customs.
Sydney D.T. says Mudgee Haynes “ has a
broad grip of the fiscal question.” That is a good
thing’, for he s a bank director now.
In Italy old parchment is now made into
isinglass for jellies. So that a man can eat his
deeis as well as his words. This is good news for
Jrarkes.
a- ??^ T7 a _ majority only two votes the
N.S.W. Legislative Council protests against the
Imperial refusal to assent to the N.S.W. Divorce
Extension Bill.
Within ten years, from 1870 to 1880, the
increase in value of farms and their products i |H
United States was, exclusive of live-stock,
nearly £160,000,000.
The export of the staple products of S.A.
during tKe first four months of this year was to
the value of £1,535,071, or £509,47,0 in excess of
the corresponding period of 1887.
At this moment there is not in any one of
the land-fortresses of England, from .Portland
Bill to the Tweed, a single modern breechloading
gun. The latest type actually in use is the 7-in.
Armstrong! '
Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy
claim an arms-bearing population of 29,000,000;
Russia, of 21,960,000; France, 9,550,000. Sup-
posing the two last-mentioned to he shies against
the rest, the strain is about equal.
Melbourne Age recently came out with a
crushing article on “The Plunders of Railway
Construction.” Of course they meant “Blunders,”
but Truth is mighty and Will come to the top at
times - even in the Ano us. ‘ ! ' 1
During Sir Saul Samuel’s tenure of office
as Agent-General, the debt of.XiS.W. has in
creased from £14,000,000 to £44,000,000, so that
during his administration Sir Saul has superin-
tended the borrowing Of £30,000,000.
Mud J. Haynes declares he would not
l-psign his parliamentary position even for £20,000.
As nobody thinks of offering him £20,000 to stay
in Parliament, Mud J. may yet have an oppor-
tunity of refusing an offer of £20,000 to “ git out.”
When a troop of dragoons sabred an un-
armed crowd in Ennis lately, they sang “ Rule
Britannia.” This piece of Jingoism was mag-
nanimously excused by William O’Brien, who
wittily said they were only setting Balfourism to
music. ... i
The Austrian Empire is filled with alarm
at Bismarck’s unwonted cordiality towards Russia,
and hourly expects the consummation of a
Germafl-Russian Treaty which will euchre France,
leave her to settle with Italy, and shut the -Aus-
trians out in the cold. 1 ■ t
In the event of a grand European struggle,
Great Britain, according to the estimate of M.
Gervais, the French statistician, stands a poor
show. Germany has 5,000,000 capable of bearing
arms; France, 4,500,000 ; Austria-Hungary,
1,800.000; Italy, 2 000 000; Russia, 6,000,000;
England, 800,000 all the other European States,
•4,000,000 This gives a total ot about 25,000,00 b.
of which 10,000,003 are trained soldiers.
The Australasian Chinese Conference
challenges the “ British citizen” theory by agree-
ing that the provisions of future restrictive legis-
lati n shall spply to all Mongols, whether British
citizens or not. Inward vessels are only to cari-y
one Chinaman to every ;>OO tons of their register.
Goldwin Smith and a lot of semi-British
Americans are importing old-world quarrels into
Yankee politics. The Canadians resident in the
btates are combining in a political party with the
English and Scotch immigrants to crush out th'e
Irish vote. The genuine Americans are very
wroth thereat.
When John Dillon was conveyed from
Dublin to Drogheda after his arrest the compart-
ment in which he travelled was filled with con-
stables, who occupied every seat, and compelled
the patriot to sbmd during the whole journey i
And yet Balfour ism is expected to make Ireland
hug the British yoke.
The books pf San Francisco Custom House
show that between the sth August, 1882 -(the date
of the Restriction Act), and the 31 st December,
1887, the number of Chinese who departed from
the port of San Francisco was (>2,407, whilst the
number which arrived was 30,089. Thus it clearly
appears that 25,118 more Chinese left ’Frisco than
got in again by either honest or fraudulent means,
for every Chinaman who returns nearly two
leave.
Jack Hamilton, M.P., of Queensland,,
takes it all back and apologises abjectly. Some
time ago Mr. Hamilton, in a moment of excite-
ment, declared that Sir Psalmyell Griffith was a
long, slimy man who was perpetually levelling
nasty insinuations at his opponents, but that never
in all his Ue had he dared to make a direct
charge. He now withdraws the observation.
Griffith did make a direct charge once. He
charged the country £l4OO for travelling expenses.
There were Hi prisoners for trial at the
last Circuit Court held at Port Darwin, and of
these only one was a European. Three niggers
were charged with illegally borrowing rum ; a
Hindoo got 15 months for firing at a man with a
knife ; and eight Chinamen —two cf whom y ere
wanted for manslaughter, one for murder, and
three for murderous assaults—made up the list.
The “ law abiding Mon®
gol ” runs riot when he
ceases to be sat upon, and
the unhappy scircity cf
white men in the sun-
dried North gives him a
free field for the develop
ment of his character.
The loss by deficient
agriculture in Ereetrade
England was, for the
year 1885, estimated at
£42,800,000 ; it could not
really have been less
than £50,000,000 —an
amount equal to a reduc-
tion of one-fourth in the
export-trade of the
country. According to
Henry Chaplin, M.P., in
the British Commons,
“many, thousands of
acres have gone out of
cultivation, and there has
been a corresponding
decrease in cattle and
sheep.” Estimates care-
fully prepared and speci-
ally reliable showed that
700,000 persons were idle
owing to the paralysis of
agriculture, while those
who were employed were
forced to work at greatly
reduced wages.
F rancis M ‘Keon, the
defeated candidate for
Dalby, Q., is as mad as
a Wet hen over his re-
jection by that perfidious
constituency : “ Dalby’s
greatness exists in mem-
ory only, her commerce
is a thing of the past, her
people have fled from the
district, and out of her
former opulent position
there is nothing left but an
(empty name. Rven the
tow T n-clock has refused to
to 1 the hours of the day and stands motionless,
agfhast at the abject servitude of her inhabitants.
Francis winds up by remarking of tire speeches of
his hated ri val that they are ‘ ‘ but the empty
vapourings of a diseased mind, the agonising
gasps of a despairing politician grasping at the
falling shadow of an expiring substance.”
When the last muster of the Shoal-haven
(N.S.W.) blacks was called for the usual Queen’s
Birthday blanket distribution, the floury-headed
old chief in command pompously marshalled his
subjects in line, and proudly refused to accept
anything’ until all his people were served. Much
to his disgust it was found that there were not
enough blankets to go half-way round, and on this
fact being communicated to him he gravely called
out: ‘AH you blackpfeller what got ’im blanket,
gib dree cheers fo’ Kaween. All you uder pfeller
better yan alonga bush an’ look fo’ ’possum.” And
one of the first to “yan” was the dLgusOd
potentate himself.
They Wouldn’t Pay Ills Tithe.
“In consequence of the refusal of his
parishioners to pay tithe, the Rev. T. Major Rees,
Vicar of pwn, St. Asaph, has been reduced to ter-
rible destitution.”—
A little hymn—a little hymn,
Dear brethren, if you please,
And sing it slow with notes of woe :
The Reverend Major Rees
Was once a bright and festive nob,
A Vicar, gay and blithe.
But now he isn’t on the job—
They will not pay his tithe !
The Gospel now no more he’ll spread
He’s terribly reduced ;
He won’t know where to lay his head
1 Ere long, or find a roost.
It’s come to this, he'll have to work
With mattock, spade, and scythe,
Or starve. He feels quite like a Turk ;
They will not pay his tithe !
Sad is the fate of Reverend Rees,
He’s been right well brought up,
But flow he’s fain to drink the lees
Of life’s once sparkling cup.
Like millions more in poverty’s
Grim grasp he’ll squirm and writhe !
Then-curse his late parishioners
! Who wouldn’t pay his tithe !


“Sauce for the Goose,” &c.
Tiger Inglis, the N.S.W. Minister of Education, lately cut off the school-firing allowance. The country having, in consequence of hard times, stopped Ministers’
Winter fire-allowance the Tiger is now playing the wag from his cheerless official den.


% u
-
r r '( kh >»*. L/IO ,„„
V. > *«/ r ci^ac7e'°L/ /
. *-; 0 . ffcrtd a fui o/iru
«>!},/' “Vorouy!, 7
« 7 7/A 4
ea 9/fe '
A*« 7 ?
?'l r
f/7\ ■past- <
better LJlt)f' e '
I bee.h Ilf!
J'r- Jna*rm
M -LdicoU-fi
, I
7uhje -Jay 'IV
s,'tsifp'
lj-
tfrjodtry
'h - Orally CLCofy y^/( e Stp f/S 9
' (°U ie - la -ttuJ ayd placed. Side by fidt-
'tf ~ to (t traij) yj - rfe- ot)*.
o peSe.*- Told. &*
UloPP**'
MV * V A
'
U l ?<^ £S I
# * /
/ /
>0> s > <v
A i y '" */
<%& $ AT?
(TV- A" ii
/
e#
£ c i If)) > - fsOp <? oJ~
(frorqz,
CfilV?' s /f^V' rer^
J' <> r 4)' s
\n '
y ! ■ ifc
1 -
%A,
? J ot °f ~ v
/& «■«. '' f-tty/jai JUS ?£af
/*- (f £>re rp /y / CO/7/ Sfor//y l/t/vH// & f 6 us/ '*
U.S. Consul George Washington Griffin and His Little Bust.
“A number of American and other influential reeidentes in Sydney are presenting the United States Consul, Mr. Gilderoy Wells Griffin, with a splendid bust of himself in
marble. " Daily Paper.


FRECKLES
can be effectually fradicated by
theuse of Cl km ents’ Frbcklebanb
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements, 141 King
Street Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
pn o' bv Washington Sonl .11 demist.
Beware of A OrUtiesß imit. P.inim.
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nur-ting staff Fir part'oulars apply to the lady Sup°rin-
tendeni. *
Among' tne many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor. Mr. m!
SnAI.VHY, has spared no expense to make his hoti 1 fc i ■ first
id Sydney *
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED*
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Whiah bheF are selling at extremely low prioea
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru'
ments: —
UEEEI and LUTES TIMES,
fto Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTET & Co, AMERICAN OSBANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtaine i Elsewhere
Eustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING & GO-, Ltd.
tee OKOKOir <*TPinrr. naort from Q.P.Qr
Society
Bollingen
[?]
The following letter from the Marquis of
Queensherry, in reference to a paragraph in, our
last issue, speaks for itself :
“ Imperial Hotel, Wynyard square, June 14.
“ Editor Bi lletin, —I have noticed your inhospitable,
impertinent remarks anent myself in your last issue.
“ I see you define me as 1 a boisterous Freethinker.’ I
may, lam sure, return the compliment, and define you
as a lying Christian ; lies and Christianity go well
together. I have generally found them hand in hand.
“ I won't take the trouble to contradict your remarks,
beyond saying that I have never seen but one fight in my
life, and would not go across the street to see another,
and would much rather fight myself than see others do
so, though fond of the art and science of boxing as a
manly exercise.
“ As to your remarks concerning the House of I‘eers,
you are evidently not aware that I have already been
turned out of it by the Christian party of ‘ order ’ or
hypocrisy, or what you like to call it, and that I am
rather proud of my position as an exiled peer for no
other sin but that 1 am and hope to remain an honest
man.—Yours faithfully,
“ Quekxsherkx.
* *
She was deaf and in love. He wasn’t, but
he had a difficulty in making her comprehend the
fact, for when he hollered a commonplace olserva-
tion as loud as an 81-ton gun in her ear she would
blush and smile and look unfathomable things,
and he began to feel uncomfortable over it. But
still they continued to meet, and one night her
heart broke into a flutter, for he bent down and
said something into her ear which sounded like
“ Hi hem ho re ra rot!” “ 1 beg your pardon,”
she said sweetly; “I did not quite catch your
observation.” “Hi hem yah ho ke huff!”
he hollered wildly—at least that was how it
sounded to her'straining ears,” Then site fell
upon his neck and wept. “Yes, my own,” she
sobbed ; “I will be yours, for you won my heart
long ago.” “Hi!—here!—lsay! dontcherkimw!
—really—” he yelped at the very summit of his
voice, and this time she managed to understand
him, “ I was. only askiner if you knew what time
it was, Miss Smith.” They have never met since.
* *. *
Since last December there have been, in
Melbourne, no less than 1300 cases of typhoid, of
which 292 have proved fatal.
* *
The committee of the so-called “Queen’s
Fund ” has met in executive session in Melbourne,
and reported that the donations have not yet
reached £lo,ooo—the figure at which operations
were to commence- by a long way; also, that
subscribers are not crushing half-an-ounce to the
ton.
Fashionable ball-dress sleeves are to con-
sist of a ribbon only. Bnt—start not!—the rib-
bon will he very.narrow.
Two Dunedin (N.Z.) medicos have ruined
their prospects by permitting their hired men, a
coachman and door-portsr, to expose the workings
of the perfesh, in a court of law. The men-ser-
vants “ pulled ” their masters for wages due, and,
in evidence, informed the Court that, though only
engaged to groom the dropsical horse and polish
up the handle of the old front door, their chief
duties consisted in compiling the wonderful cura-
tive nostrums upon which the successes of their
masters were mainly hasei.
* * *
Some blackhearted caitiff is still mashing
Melbourne females in the overcoat and lemon kids
of Sydney’s own Burdett Smith. Those articles
of raiment were sneaked from the smoking-room
of Menzies’ Hotel, while Burdett was telling the
squattahs all about his particular friend the
Prince of Wales. And the thief, likely enough,
doesn’t understand what a priceless relic that
overcoat is. It has rubbed elbows with a dozen
dukes. Burdett has become very popular in Mel-
bourne, for, despite his amusing little vanities,
people have found he is made of real good grit, in
that, like old Sir Saul Samuel, he never breaks a
promise. # «
Queen Victoria is responsible for the
greatest piece of humbug in modern times. It is
notorious that, instead of admiring the primrose,
Dizzy regarded it with the contempt m which his
lofty taste held all common things. Among the
nosegays laid on his tomb, however, was a prim-
rose wreath from the Queen, labelled “His
favourite flower.” Hence the annual primrose
grovel, and the name of the Tory .league, &c. But
the “ his ” referred, not to Dizzy, but to the late
lamented Albert, who has been elevated into a
sort of deity by his sorrowing widow. Of such
things is Tory history made.
Mr. L. A. Bernays, the Clerk of the
Queensland Legislative Assembly,. recei\ ed the
other day an official communication from the
N.S. Wales Assembly asking him what steps are
usually' taken in Brisbane when a mob invades
the precincts of the House, and threatens to dis-
turb the Legislative calm. Mr. Bernays has had
to reply that no precautions have been taken to
meet such an emergency - much on the same prin-
ciple that the old Roman code assigned no punish-
ment to the crime of parricide. A Queensland
crowd would no more think of degenerating into
<< a mob” than a Roman youth wo-11 have thought
of putting daylight through his pa_ a.
« *
An English aristocratic paper heaps a
complicated anathema on an American giil who
danced with the Prince of Wales and then sup-
plied an account of her sensations. It was this
that roused the journalistic bile
1)0 vou want to know about the Prince of Wales? He
is not a sylph. I find that most, of my acquaintances on
this side of the water conceive of him as.a tall and stately
fio-ure That is because all kings and princes ought to be
nortlv I suppose. But Wales is rather below the medium
height, while he is broad enough for a six-footer. Besides,
he is almost middle-aged, and certainly beyond the time
of life when a person can keepbis heels off tne floor during
a quarter of an hour of lively stepping. Still, the 1 nnce
is one of the first-rate has-beens. Doubtless, at twenty-
five, he was a nimble and light-footed waltzer. He still
gets through the steps in a oorrect fashion, but with a
trifle of lagging heaviness and a suggestion of wheeze in
his breathing. You wish to know just how he handles a
girl in waltzing? Well, he is altogether respectin'. You
know from personal experience what I mean by that.
Some fellows grab their partners as though they were
their wives or their accepted sweethearts, and hug them
covertly if not perceptibly to spectators. The Prince docs
not do that at all. There was nothing caressing in the
firm but conventional encircling of his right arm, the
band of which was placed just flatly enough to be sup-
porting to the small of my back. He «ai just as respect-
ful as he couhl be. With his left hand he held m,y right
extended, ju tas wc do in waltzing here, and with just
grip enough to make you feel safe, but with no pressure
of impropriety. Oh, he was very nice indeed. My right
far was close to his mouth, and he chatted a little at first
until the exercise of dancing made him scant of breath.
When we were through he left me with a cdurtly bow and
the remark: “You American ladies are certainly fiiie
daiicers.”
The London pressman breaks off here with a
snort and says that V this kind of lying' vulgarity
is too sickening.”
* v
A really pathetic thing in mourning-rings
is coining into vogue in some parts of the world,
where people are addicted to the blind stagger of
dry bones and miscellaneous horrors, and like to
carry about with them assorted emblems of de-
parted friends who died and went to seed in the
perished long ago. The new inspiration consists
of a plain gold ring adorned with a miniature
glass coffin, inside which a microscopic skeleton
basks _ its bones in the sun, with a vacant smile
gleaming “n a face about as large as the summit
of a pin. It is a cheerful and inspiriting kick-
shaw, and has a tendency to promote a flow of
washed-out soul every time the owner gazes at it.
It is worn chief!v by people who are much given,
to tears and snuffles and long black funerals, and
who go to their neighbours’ funerals when they
have no funerals of their own to go to —people
who love to sit up with dead bodies and who are
addicted to ghosts and amputated legs and execu-
LITTLE DEARER THAN HIS HORSE.”
“I SEE ON YOUR SIGN OUTSIDE, ACCOMMODATION FOR MAN AND
BEAST,’ LET ME HAVE A ROOM FOR MYSELF AND WIFE.”
tions, and who seek the society of men who have
been bitten in two by crocodiles ; and as this
crape-fed section of the human race musters pretty
strongly there is a good demand for the latest
style in golden ghastliness. Of course there is no
reason why the weeping howlers of humanity
should not enjoy their woe in any way that suits
them best —in fact, if the miniature skeietm of the
deceased is not sufficient comfort, it is hard to say
why they should not take the deceased himself
round with them—it is all a matter of taste after
all, and we are not finding fault with anybody’s
idiosyncrasy. We are fond of bones ourselves,
and one of the pleasantest of our early recollections
k concerning a skeleton which was bring conveyed
somewhere by rail, with a ticket on it stating that,
it was to he kept dry and delivered at the anato-
mical department of a certain Scotch college;
and when the train went to utter j smash that
skeleton waited until 18 brawny Highlanders of
the 91st Regiment had been thrown out in a heap,
and then it suddenly hounded out of the baggage-
van on top of them, with a carpet-bag m its hand
and a pile of other luggage following behind. And
the scream of that kilted pile of Celts when they
saw it coming is a thing that we shall never, never
forget.
* • *
It was on a crowded skating-rink that this
catastrophe took plac3, and the victim of the
disaster will never, never smile any more. There
was a glare of gas and a noise of pleasant melody,
and amid the giddy throng one girl was prominent
as the brightest and giddiest of them all. Her dense
masses of ebon hair fell in profusion over her
shoulders ; her eyes were large and dark; and
her complexion was of that undefinable shade
which is summer sunset family shaded with the
tint of the uncooked meat that the cat hauls
across the carpet before anyone can get at her and
stamp on her tail. Her dainty ears were smaller
than a barracouta’s head, and she danced around
on her skates like a dream of fairy bliss. Then
she fell, and lay spread out on the floor with her
streaming locks all loose, and the man behind her
got his skates tangled in her curls and couldn’t
stop hinjself—in fact he went awav with the curls
bodily, fine rose in hysterics and fled wildly across
the floor without a singls hair on h c r cranium,
and sobbing fearfully she disappeared through
the doorway into the darkness. She never cdme
back. When she got home that night she whopped
her y ung sister with a cotton umbrella until she
was covered with bruises, and aimed one of her
boots at her mbth°r and the other at the gas-jet
Then the, harmless, necessary cat cairie hi to the
roonrt and she seized it by the tail until it was
dragged out to a length of three feet, after which*
she"[flayed tlie piano with her feet, and dashed
the contents of tlve coal-scuttle at the kitchen
crockery. Next morning she was calmer and more
reticent, hut when she put her baldhead out of
her bedroom-do >r and called loudly for her boots
there was a look of stony resolution in her left
eye which forbade the family to ask questions.
The cat has now recovered something of the shape
it wore before that unnatural elongation, but Ps
owner lias never gone a-rinking any more.
* * *
At Richmond (Vic.) the Inspectors of
Weights and Measures recently took a tour round
among the moon-eyed tribes whose tails grow out
of their heads, contrary to the laws of Nature and
the teachings of zoological science ; and devoted
special attention to the bland commercial travel-
lers whose warie kless and aspalagas is vended
from door to door. Let us weep for the crushed
leper, and wail over the gu le of the flattened
heathen from the land where everything seems to
either begin or end more or less with “hong no
less than 02 of them were wrong in their weights,
and some of them were actually out seven ounces
in every pound,
• •
Plaintive observation from Hobart (Tas.) ;
—“ Dorothea Valentine was charged at the Police
Court to-day with assaulting’ her husband. The
prosecutor stated that his wife was of a violent
temper, and while he was perusing a work of art
she hit him on the side of the head with a frying-
pan, inflicting a scalp wound.” It is difficult for
any man to study the masterpieces of antiquity or
to follow the glowing page of the modern philoso-
pher with frying-pans and bellows on his head, so
we report with joy that Dorothea was allotted
40s. or two months.
* * *
At the Queen’s Statue, Sydney, on the
afternoon of Sunday week, a meek and innocent-
looking young woman got level with a hoodlum
who insulted her. She was a fragile little crea-
ture, with a pink-and-white complexion and
dazzling teeth, and religious fervour in her mild
blue eye, and the listless style in which, after
dreamily fingering her tambourine, she gave it a
gentle jolt with her bony elbow, made one wish
that, for her own sake, she had taken a few
lessons from a professional corner-man. Not to
put too fine a point on it, she was an officer in the
Salvation Army, and the hoodlum—a heavily-
built savage, with a short pipe stuck in his square
jaw—was jeering at her. By-and-bye she knelt
down to pray, poor little soul, and you could see
she meant it, for her eyes got damp, and a tear or
two started from some of the men and women who
in curiosity stood around, and who wished that
they also could believe in something or other as
fervently as did the Salvation Army girl
who was prostrating herself in the dust,
and talking seventy to the dozen to the great Un-
seen Power. She asked a blessing on the work of
the Salvation Army, and on the poor sinners and
the poor drunkards, and the bad women, and the
men who beat their wives, and the wives who ex-
travagantly spent all their husbands’ money ; and
the hoodlum, while f ee ing whether his brass pin
was fixed straight in his red tie, bawled, “ Yah !
git up, old gal!” But she went along: “And, O
Lord, we ask that nil the brutal larrikins who
dress themselves up in red neckties, and smoke
and spit and curve while women are praying, may
be turned from their evil ways and become decent
men, and join the Army; and if they can't be
made good, then we beseech that they may
b 3 civilised to the tortures of hell for ever
anl ever. Amen.” Then everybody—and there
were a couple of hundred there—had a good long
look at that big larrikin, and he picked the pipe
out of his mouth and blushed through tire stubble
on his jowl; and lie said never a word more, but
put his hands into his pockets and began to move
about uneasily, and by-and-bye he “took his
hook. ”
• * •
An Irish priest in an inland N.S.W. town,
quite recently made a bitter complaint to his con-
gregation respecting the smallness of the Sunday
collections. “ You can,” sez he, “ find money for
amusements; if you go to the play you pay for
that, if you go to a picnic you pay for that, if
you get sick and go for a doctor you have to pay
him, and if you get fined you have to pay that.”
• *
A young man has got into trouble for
representing himself as a member of the Aim us
staff' and passing valueless cheques. It is needless
to mention that the young man operated on a
country district. Only in Arcadian retreats can
any avowed journalist pass a cheque.
• # *
Some of the Gaiety burlesque ladies are
lovely creachaws, with enough natural fascination
to double up a dude in broad daylight. The fate
of Miss Sylvia Grey has been prematurely mapped
out by the Argus’ London Correspondent, who
writes:—“lt is agreed that she, of all the com-
pany, is most certain to marry an Australian
millionaire.” Now we rise to warn Sylvia that
millionaires are none too plentiful on this con-
tinent, and when found they are invariably
married already. And if they were not married
already they would be just about to marry damsels
of Scottish extraction whose ancestors came over
years ago and grabbed all the soil except what had
been already secured by the progenitors of their
intended husbands. It grieves us to burst up Miss
Sylvia’s prospects in this cold-blooded manner,
but if the Argus will print fallacious puffs then
The Bulletin must chip in with well-in tended
truth. Squatters, Miss Sylvia, only cast sheep's
eyes at ladies of similar stations to their own.
However, we have on hand among The Bulletin
staff a large assortment of bachelor Australians
who might become millionaires if the land were
scrambled for all over again.
• . •
We can forgive Knutsford everything now.
He has had to introduce another “ representative
Australian ” to the Prince of Wales.
* * *
A number of people have written to the
Melbourne daily papers lately comp’aining of the
hardship that is inflicted on parents by being com-
pelled to keep their children at school till fifteen
years of age. It is a shame. The children ought
to be but earning money to ke qi their poor old
parents in beer and tobacco long before this.
What is the use of having children at all ?
* * *
Porter, alias Dare, sentenced at East
Maitland, N.S.W.', last week, to penal servitude
for life for attempting to poison his wife, has
proved the truth of the line, “ Hell hath no fury
iike a woman scorned.” The police, it is under-
stood, indirectly offered to forego any prosecution
if he would go away with Airs. Porter, but he
declined for reasons specified. Well might the
old Pasha exclaim after listening to the recital of
any trouble—“ What is the name of the woman ?”
• * •
A man was thrown out of a buggy in
South Melbourne the oth°r day and nearly killed
through trying to avoid a hearse. This shows the
absurdity of attempting to get away from the
inevitable. And here we will give you a little bit
of gratuitous philosophy entirely our own. Every
man has on his path of life an open grave. If he
doiges off and on the path trying to avoid it, the
chances are that he will fall into some other man’s


IStudv your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally trend, and the price very low.*
[Interesting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bullbtin Offioe
grave who was destined to die far sooner than lie
Was. Better keep your own track and take the
risks.
* *
Sir Henry Wrenfordsley, the lately-ap-
pointed Victorian Supreme Court, Judge, is going
the shortest way to make himself a household
Word with suburban councillors —but the word
will not be of the drawing-room sort. He was
presiding judge in the Melbourne Banco Court
when a case was brought before him last week
in which the Councillors of the Borough of Bruns-
wick were the defendants. “ Did you,” said the
judge to the plaintiff and referring to the defend-
ants, ‘ get your orders from these fellows?”
Then he paused thoughtfully for a moment and
added in velvety tones “ I must speak more
respectfully than this—l mean the Councillors.”
The sarcasm was neat but too cruel. But wait
till the judge gets out among the Brunswick
quarry-holes some dark night!
• *
The little town of Dunolly (Vic.) is filled
with bad language arising from the beautiful
jubilee of our Gracious Queen. It seems that the
Borough Council expressed their loyalty to the
Throne by ordering a jubilee fountain, to be
charged to the ratepayers in the usual jubilee
manner. Clean water is tolerably scarce down at
. Dunolly, and the councillors were suspected of
purely philanthropic motives until the but-end of
the fountain reached its destination. Then it was
discovered that a bloated corporation had con-
spired to purchase immortality with the rates, by
recording their names on the base of this good
work. From that time up to the present Dunolly
has been in a chronic state of petition and public
meeting, with a view to the wiping out of the
inscriptions. And as Her Gracious is, in a mea-
sure, mixed up with the Town Council, it is now
proposed to chip everybody’s name off the fountain
and fix it up in commemoration of nothing at all.
Sir Saul tells a fine story of a certain “re-
presentative Australian.” This magnate gave a
dinner to a number of aristocrats at his club, and,
on taking his seat, a young sprig of nobility ex-
claimed in horror : “ Why ! is the fellow going to
sit down with us !”
* • •
Scene in Bourke-street, Melbourne, a
few weeks ago. The Princess Blank, gor-
geously arrayed, coming down from Menzies’
Hotel with her father. Poor old John
— crossing the street just in front with
his canvasser's bag in his hand, and looking
askance at the pair. ’Tis a mad world, my
masters.
* # *
The State of New York has taken the
first step towards civilisation in the matter of
capital punishment. The criminal is placed in a
chair connected with an electric-battery, the exe-
cutioner presses a button, and the prisoner belongs
to ancient history before you can wink. This is
all very well, but we think we can suggest an im-
provement even upon it. The real agony of a
condemned prisoner is suffered before his execu-
tion in the expectation of it. Why should this
be? We take it that the aim of the Law is not to
torture its victim, but to put him permanently
out of the way so that he can commit no more
crimes. Torturing him by dangling the noose
over his head is not much good to him as a moral
lesson if you are really going to hang him,
or kill him in some other fashion after-
wards. Of course he will know that he is
condemned” to death, but then, on the' other
hand, all of us are condemned to death, and every
condemned prisoner hopes for a reprieve till the
last moment. -Why undeceive him ? What we
would suggest would be that a warder—chosen for
his cheery expression should go into the prisoner’s
cell one morning and tell him that he was wanted
to have his photograph taken—say, for instance,
because a number of ladies had asked for it to put
in their albums. He would walk to his doom
with pleasure under such circumstances. Let
the room in which the operation is to take place
be lit up nicely and the walls hung with
1 i.;ture3 of cheerful subjects- his predecessors,
for instance. The photographer takes his stand
i l front of him, he is fixed in the fatal chair, and
any little adjustment of screws or levers gives him
no anxiety, as he considers it part of the perform-
a ice. Then the photographer gets the proper
focus on him, tells him to “look pleasant,” winks
rapidly at the electric operator, who presses the
button suddenly, and—paf ! —he has gone to meet
his friends in the next world with a smile'on his
lips. This will be the second step in capital
punishment. The third will be its total abolition.
* • *
Thus Bishop Goe at a tea-fight where a
new, toiler in the Melbourne vineyard received
Jverrisbian gereetings : “Why is it that a welcome
of this kind is never extended to a doctor or a
lawyer (farcy killing the fatted calf for an attor-
ney !) on their coining to a parish for the first
time ?” And when all the old ladies had wagged
their false fronts over “ Why, indeed!” the
Bishop answered his conundrum —“Because the
work of a minister, unlike that of a doctor or a
lawyer, affects our daily life at every important
point from the cradle to the grave.” Calm reflec-
tion will convince friend Goe that he talks tommy
nonsense. The doctor has a lot to do with putting
U 3 in the cradle and sending us to the grave, while
the gentle shepherd only turns up in time to sup-
plicate over our cold clay. A man may be regis-
tered, mairied, saved, and buried for the matter
of that, without clutching one limp parsonic paw
or hearing one dull parsonic prayer. Modern
legislation doesn’t recognise the shepherd as an
indispensable item of society. Whereas the
doctor is, under certain conditions—such as vacci-
nation, small-pox, and inquest—actually thrust
upon us by a tyrannical government, whether we
like it or not. See that, Bishop !
By following the directions of the minister
you get to heaven, and by following the directions
of the doctor you save time in doing so. By
following both and taking Marshall’s Tonic Ner-
vine, your temporal and eternal happiness are
secured.
LE ROI EST MORT.
Weep, daily papers—Fritz is death
No “ latest symptoms ” now to cable,
No eager readers to be fed
With paragraphs of fact and fable ;
You’ve dwelt upon his fight for breath
In yards of journalistic chatter ;
At last the kindly hand of Death
Has stopped the “fresh discharge” pf mailer.
Weep, daily papers—Fritz has been
A godsend in the silly season,
And now he’s vanished from the scene
Some other subject you must seize on,
The Emperor’s dead—the final tale
Is being tolled by many a sexton ;
Your grief is “ very like a wail,"
And now to slobber o’er the next ’un.
E. F.
[?]
84(5 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, June 20, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
“ Gone ! with a flavor of hydrogen gas ” is St. Vincent’s
annual ball, which commenced on the 13th and finished
on the 14th of June at Sydney Exhibition building. Every-
body goes to this ball (with a preponderance, perhaps, of
those who believe in the Pope) whether they domicile in
Woolloomooloo or Woollahra, and consequently the
appearance of the festive crowd is as various as striped
paint, and most edifying indeed it was to sit and watch
the motley dancers prance by on a floor that felt as if it
had been ploughed as a preliminary to ensure bumps.
Lady Caringtori did not attend, in consequence
of the death of her infant nephew, and so heavily
disappointed over 800 at one coup , but the Baron man-
fully stood to his guns, and if his appearance isn’t so
joyfully hailed as his lady’s it’s only because he can’t wear
diamonds and a silk dress that all the women can run
away and “ copy ”in glass and bombazine. Several fresh
and handsome dresses appeared ; hundreds of people were
prettily-dressed and looked as if they were rather glad
than otherwise that Grandmama Eve ate the historic
apple and gave them the chance to “sport”such gorgeous
covering's. Eccles made a big success of the catering and
his waiters were übiquitous. The music was all that could
be prayed for, and if only that terrible floor had been
smooth the ball would have been ever so much more
enjoyable.
At St. Vincent’s ball one of the Government House
party was discussing with a lady (who didn’t look as if she
had water on the brain) Hanlan’s recent win. “ Let's
see, ’ drawled he, “ who is it he has beaten ?” “ Oh! that
Rockhampton puller,” replied she promptly—“ Teermr,
you know.”
The Royston College Amateur Athletic Club’s annual
sports came off on Sydney Association’s cricket ground on
the 13th, in the presence of “a crowd and a bevy of
glorious girls,” who mostly said they had come to see if
their little brother would win any of the events. Red was
the colour worn, and the lawn looked like Moore Bark on
Queen “ Victory’s ” natal day, when all the girls were
promenading in glaring scarlet. The striking daughters
of a Sydney Israelite of light and leading wore two very
distinct toilettes : the elder in dark green cloth, pinked
out, full-smocked vest of strawberry silk, dark-green
velvet hat, ornate with myrtle-green and strawberry bows;
the younger—pearl-grey cashmere, trimmed with fur, hat
en suite. Another gown was of heliotrope cashmere, full-
smocked blouse-vest of white silk, three-storied white hat
trimmed with heliotrope plumes and plush. And there
was some “Pickwickian” dressing also. A terra-cotta
merino train, for instance ; also a ruby surah, with bonnet
to match, tastefully, oh ! so tastefully relieved with bows
of red ribbon !
Poodles are now d la mode for those sweet misunder-
stood women to fondle who find that love of husband,
children, or lover isn’t sufficiently expansive for the affec-
tions. These horrible little dogs are dressed in all sorts
of ways in London, and the sayiDg should read, “ Dress
me, dress my dog,” for the canine’s toilet is as important
as that of his mistress. The very latest style (if you
happen to keep a poodle) in which to treat the brute is to
shave its entire body and leave the hair on the head as
Nature intended. This you plait in many plaits and tie
with the colours most affected by you, and then you oan
reflect, with pardonable pride, that you are chaperoning a
really fashionable pup.
A correspondent writes to say that the hospital ball at
Bathurst, which came off on the 30th ult., was a huge
success in every way, the ladies wearing fancy as well as
orthodox evening attire, and in every case showing that
though Bathurst may be called the City of the Plain, it
doesn’t refer to the women up that way.
On 14th inst. Lady Carington was At Home to the whole
of N S. Wales, and accordingly a large proportion of the
dwellers therein put on their “ best ” frocks to go and call
upon Her Excellency (as the evening papers say). And
their best frocks were very nice, too, Her Ladyship
wore black and cream, and looked lovely, and a fearfully-
moustached woman sported a red feather in her bonnet.
Mostly all the dresses were satisfactory, and—what is a
great deal more to the purpose—well worn, though I wish
somebody could teach us how to walk ! Tea was served
in the ball-room to the surging sea of humanity, which
didn’t behave, this time, as if it hadn’t seen tea for a
week, and thin bread and butter for a fortnight.
There is in Sydney a man who has “a few brains,” but
is particularly careless in regard to his attire. He
was in the Botanical Gardens the other day, and there
met an old and privileged friend who, it is notorious,
always looks as if just out of a bandbox. “Ah ! My dear
fellow ; ” said the careful one, “so glad to see you. By the
way, you have actually got a new pair of trousers.”
“ Have I ? ” returned the genius, “ I really didn’t notice.
You see, everybody doesn’t worship his own legs.”
Sir Saul and Lady Samuel have left the land where it is
an outward and visible sign of active and watchful virtue
to have a cold in your eye and an auger in your pocket
for the realms where Social Purists only run newspapers
to affect big reforms and generally get the verdict. They
left per Zealandia, on the 13th inst., and were supported
by a horde <sf well-meaning individuals well-known in the
highest circles, who took the Agent-General out on an
oily steam launch and moistened the farewell with un-
limited Mumm, and made pretty speeches which were
answered by prettier speeches whilst the fizz lasted. Then
the Zealandia got away, chased for some distance by
a launch-load of well-meaning individuals who left a
track of “ dead marines'” in their wake, whilst the cir-
cumambient air echoed with their valedictory cheers for
Sir Saul, who was visible to the last in the stern of the
steamer,
I read that at the grand farewell ball to the London
Gaiety Company (they opened in Melbourne on Saturday
night) at the Hotel Metropole, London, Nellie Farren
wore a charming costume of cream-coloured silk, with a
1 rail of cream striped silk and plush. She carried a large
bouquet of lilies of the valley and white feather fan.
Connie Gilchrist was in pink silk and Violet Camercn
wore a sombre colourless get-up of grey satin and black
brocade. At Miss Farren s farewell benefit a wreath of
flowers five feet across was thrown on to the stage.
I hear a wail from certam people who, having indus-
triously attended all Lady Cariiigton’s At Homes, &c.,
and duly inscribed their names in the visitors’ book, find
that when a mighty vice-regal shivoo looms in the distance
they are not among the invited, the most melancholy
asptict of this matter is that some of the neglected ladies
in question date their familiarity with Government House
from the days of Lad}’ Denison and Lady Young ; while 1
am credibly informed that one or two of them were on
intimate terms with Mrs. Macquarie of blessed memory.
The trouble has, no doubt, arisen through an oversight
What a dreadful thing it must be to be private secretary
to a Governor !
A bust of American Consul Griffin, of Sydney, by
Simonetti, has been unveiled—in Mr. Griffin’s office. It
contains so good a likeness of the Consul that you feel
yourself quite rude when you stare at it. The moustache
is particularly' life-like. By the way, as the Consul was
marching down Pitt street on Friday week, dragging
away at the aforesaid moustache, a ram with immense
horns ran with all its force against him, lifting him clean
into mid-air. After a considerable time he came down
again to mother-earth (and a very dirty mother-earth it
was that morning), spoiling his immaculate overcoat
and spotless white hat. It is very' difficult to look
dignified when one is sitting lialf-stunned on a dirty pave-
ment, hut when one has been placed there by a common
sheep it is particularly so. As the Consul remarked, had
it been a lion, or a tiger, or an eagle, or even a man, that
had knocked him down, it wouldn’t have’ mattered so
much.
Here is a story I heard the other day. At a fashionable
boarding-house in Darlinghurst live two very charming
widows. One has an admirer, and the other has several,
but anyhow the one was engaged to be married. Widows
with gcod incomes are generally luxurious in their habits.
These two prove no exception to the rule : they break-
fast in bed every morning. The admirer of No. I.
boarded in the same house, and in his anxiety for the
physical well-being of his prospective wife—although you
never can depend on any widow—bribed a new house-
maid to take up every morning an extra good breakfast
to the fascinating creature. For some days the “ extra
good breakfast ” was taken up, when, by the merest
accident, it was discovered that the new maid had been
taking it to the wrong widow. The rage of the right
widow on discove ring this was intense, and the poor maid
added insult to injury when she with tears besought the
injured one to forgive her, adding: “ Really, ma’am, I
am awful sorry, but upon my soul I thought you was Mr.
F ’s mother 1” and gentlemen aren’t generally so atten-
tive to their ma’s. The maid was not forgiven.
A gentleman who is not as rich as Baronet Clarke by at
least a hundred thousand a year told me last week several
stories about his experiences of hunting for lodgings in
Sydney. One of these tales concerned a lady who kept
a high-toned hash-emporium near Government House,
and he, needing a modest apartment, waited upon her in
answer to her advertisement. He stated his humble
wants. The lady led the way through mazy staircases
and rooms until a little pigeon-hole in the roof w'as
reached. Here negotiations were opened. The room
could be hired for 18s. per week. The gentleman w'ould
not object to that. Of course not. Then there would be
Is. per week for boot-cleaning. Would the gentleman
object to that ? Then he could have a cup of tea and a
slice of toast brought to his bedside every morning. Of
course the gentleman would not object to pay a shilling
for that. No 1 And then, though she was willing to let
him always have a small piece of candle in his room with-
out extra charge, he w'ould, of course, have to pay for gas,
if he wished it kept on ; he would not object to that. And
how long would he be a lodger ? Well, it might be for
years or it might be for ever. Oh, very good, but there
was another little item which should be mentioned. The
house was full of some very nice people to whom he
would be introduced, and, by the way, there would be a
shilling a week for washing bedroom-towels. Of course
he would not object to that ! But he did object here, and
took his departure. The lady didn’t know how to deal with
a Queenslander who had been accustomed to “ the run of
his teeth” for a lump sum of so much a week. Sydney is
getting so very English, you know. The sun of civilisation,
which rise 3 at Government House, has begun to irradi-
ate the other large boarding-houses in the vicinity.
Every thing is “ extra ”in England. A well-known Aus-
traliaruborn cricketer told me that on his first visit to
“ the dear old mother country ” he was both enraged and
disgusted to find that in the large hotels they actually
charged him for his morning bath, as though cold water
was not a necessary of existence.
My Brisbane correspondent writes that the garden
party at the local Government House, given in lieu of the
usual Birthday ball, was the other side of a success. The
proportion of ladies was a round dozen to every two men,
and the members of our sex were heartily sick (as usual)
of their own company. But there was some good steeple-
chasing at Eagle Farm on the same day, and so—no fellah
can be in two places at once.
The “ talented Greenwood girls,” who appeared on the
11th inst., at Sydney Y.M.C. A. Hall—which always makes
me think of Heaven, it’s so awfully high up, and the
stairs are so steep !—are a decidedly handsome set,
anyhow. Miss Maribel, in her simple gown of blue silk,
looked so romantically fetching as she played the violin
that one could pardon her all her little faults. / can
pardon a pretty girl anything. There are few situations,
by the way, more advantageous to a charming woman
than playing the fiddle. A graceful arm gets the best
show in the world, and when a pretty face bends caress-
ingly over the strings! why there's not a man in the
world who doesn’t mentally hanker to be that violin !
Miss Agatha is the possessor of a pair of extremely hand-
some eyes, which she is as yet too young to thoroughly
understand the use of.
Mrs. C. J. Roberts, of Chats worth, Potts Point, has
issued invitations for a ball to eventuate on the 29th inst.
Melbourne society is complaining of the conduct of
several habitubs of Government House who “get their
claws ” into the aides-de-camp at balls and receptions, and
don’t give less pushing-women a show. In other places
the case is the same, precisely. Lord Carington’s follow-
ing of lords and captains are seized upon and held, at
every social function, by fierce and aggressive females
who demand unremitting attention from these gentry,
nd get it, too, because they give shivarees to which these
young men bie, and so find it politic to keep sweet with
their enchanted hostesses of the Points.
I hear that a certain well-known actor, whose beauti-
fully-curled moustache was a delusion and a snare to all
impressimable feminine hearts,.my dear, about a year cr
so ago, has renounced the stage, shaved his upper lip, and
shut himself eff from the world in a Benedictine Convent.
More thanone lady of my acquaintance is inconsolable.
Bridesmaids are getting tired of having their services
rewarded with a silly little bangle, and there is a great
cry going up from them for something more serviceable.
People may laugh, but really it’s a serious thing to be a
bridesmaid. It is a hundred to one they are forced to weai'
an unbecoming colour and they have always to buy their
own gowns ! Somebody suggests that gloves, or even
shoes, should reward these self-sacrificing young women
who, if they act at many weddings, got so many bangles
that they haven’t arm enough to carry them all 1 In the
London fashion-world, feathers, I am glad to find, hare
gone completely out of fashion in favour of artificia
flowers. This is well for two reasons. The birds won’t
be killed and the girls who make flowers will get work to
do. Fashion is useful sometimes.
At a recent Cinderella dance, held in London, the pro
gramme, with the exception cf die set of lancers and two
polkas, consisted nole/i/ of waltzes ! In Sydney we go one
better. We arrange a varied programme which generally
includes a Highland schottische, and then we stand up and
waltz everything ! The programmes, however, still remain
mute testifiers to our virtue.
At St. \ incent’s ball a lady fainted and caused soriie
little commotion, but what struck me most was the want
of politeness displayed by the dinners who flocked into
the room whither she had been supported, and gazed and
gaped as if a swoon was an interesting show i
Speaking of dances, heavy swells who attend these fes-
tivities are much agitated as to where to secrete the
harmless, necessary bandana. The most hopeless dudes
keep their handkerchiefs up the sleeves of their coats, as
they aver that pockets spoil the set of their clothes, but
these coat-sleeve pockets don’t seem to answer, and so the
latest idea is to have your pocket in the silk lining of your
crush-hat!
A gentleman who occupies a high position in the Mel-
bourne Houses of Parliament originally came to the
colony as a lowly member of a whaler's crew. A philan-
thropic Victorian connected with the shipping interest so
encountered him, was attracted, learned that he was a
gentleman who had found circumstances too much for
him, extended the now proverbial helping hand, and
ecce homo! It’s a pity everyone’s protegfa don’t turn out
so well.
Divine, “scrumptious,” Nellie Farren is, alas! rather
addicted to that vice of most professionals—free adver-
tising. I hear that when the vessel touched land at South
Australia, Nellie made an airy hound on to the pier, and,
throwing her snowy arms round one of the wooden sup-
ports, kissed it rapturously, exclaiming, “Thank
Heaven ! I’ve got to dear Australia at last!’’ By the time
Nellie goes away she will have discovered, should she care
to make the experiment, thht she really might just as. well
kiss a wooden post as many of the most prominent local
mashers—that is to say, if wooden-headedness goes for
anything.
On July 11th the Mercantile Rowing Club’s annual ball
takes place in Sydney Town Hall.
At the Criterion Theatre, the other night, I counted no
less than 15 bald heads in the d.c., and, of course, they
all belonged to men. Whenever a woman wears bare on
top, she smiles softly, goes out to a hairdresser's, and we
see no more pink glimpses amongst the gold. But
women don’t like to wear wigs. Only the other day, at
Melbourne, a woman summoned her heaven-joined hus-
band for pulling out her hair to such an extent that she
had to wear a wig, and he was fined £5. If he had also to
pay for the wig his connubial oakum picking cost him
very dear.
The rule in a certain not inconsiderable section of
Sydney society seems to he that the dirtier the handker-
chief the more “swagger” its owner. The other day I saw
-‘a lady of title” produce a wisp of the most disheartened-
looking, murky muslin you ever saw, and it was at Govern-
ment House, too !
The Sydney shops—especially those given over to
drapery—present just now an unusually guy appearance
probably because so many ball-gowns are in evidence
But what fearful things most of these shop-made “ slop ’
gets-up are ! One that haunts me at every turn is of
butcher’s-red net made with a straight bodice odiously
trimmed with row upon row of hard, unforgiving gold
braid 1 It looks like a ferocious major-general, and com-
pletely shocks the artistic eye of yours affectionately
Saptmio Smith.
“The Law of Population and Social Purity."
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —In a paragraph in your
issue of a fortnight since you make some comments
upon the above question. In it you quote the last
sentence of a report which appeared in the Aus-
tralian Star of May the 11th, and you put the
latter part of the sentence in italics. Such a
course is most unjustifiable. I shall now quote
from the same report, and trust you will do me
the justice of a correction. “ Speaking of the
facts, he knew, as a member of the Social Purity
Society, that they did not directly or indirectly
institute the proceedings. If a right course had
been taken there were other books which should
have been prosecuted. He had read one book
sold in Sydney which he considered more-obscene
than ‘ The Law of Population.’ He considered
that the police did right in the prosecution.
He did not wish to go into any disputation.
He told them that the Social Purity
Society had nothing to do with the prosecu-
tion.” It must be clear from the above
remarks that I spoke of the institution of the pro-
ceedings. It is likely the reporter of the Star re-
ported me as I spoke, but seeing he did me the
justice to report me in the fiitt paragraph as say-
ing, “ they did not directly or indirectly institute
the. proceedings, ” the sentence you quote, and a
part of which you put in italics, must be read as a
confirmation of my first utterance, and especially
as the report you quote from also has the-follow-
ing reply to some remarks made by Mr. Collins':
—“Mr. Turnbull said that his remark was that
the S.P S. had nothing to do with the institution
of the prosecution.” To prove the truth of my
statement, I may say I spoke in the presence of
Mr. Bear, who was aware that my remarks were
specially spoken with reference to “ the institution
of the prosecution.” A eon versa! i. nto that effect
took place in his shop between us after the ad-
journment of the case on the first day of hearing.
This explanation will show the unfairness of your
quotations and comments, and it will also prove
the truthfulness of Mr. Ardili/s remarks con-
tained in the same report of the Star, which run
as follows “ Mr. Ardill, as secretary to the
S.P. S,, denied that they bad by any means insti-
tuted the prosecution against Mr. Bear. When
the case was remanded the S.P.S. came forward
and interfered. He admitted that he had in-
structed the counsel in the second prosecution.” -
Yours truly, A. Turnbull, Hon. Clerical Secre-
tary S.P.S.
“The collection was unusually large at
St. Luke’s in the evening,” is the interesting infor-
mation Melbourne Hekali > affords its leaders
under the lieading : “ What thp churches are
doing.”


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney,
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live,
we will supply you with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
Ist. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tion, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, or tinkettly, or metallic sounds so
common in cheap English or French pianos.
2nd. The action is perfect check repeater.
3rd. All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves.
sth. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tuning
only at long intervals.
6th. The Felts are Clinched on the Hammers, in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg,
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks,
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style.
Bth. Rust is guarded against, wherever possible,
by the substitution of bronze for other metals.
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods; they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
m
m
a
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
Special Qualities and Improvements
Loose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presserfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and ITxngU.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely sus-
PENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments. .' .
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND COMPANY,
*B4 AWT' 48fi Gvotmi BTRBBT. Kvr>w»v
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
TATTERSALL’S
HONSIER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
“ Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“ Evening News.” Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GRAND HOTEL,
CORNER of MARY and MARKET-STREET
BRISBANE.
(Opposite A.U.S.N. Wharf.)
D. COSGROVE, Proprietress.
(Late of Lennon’s Hotel.)
THIS Hotel having passed under a new manage-
ment, great improvements have been made,
making this one of the Finest Hotels in the
Colonies. Private Suites for Families.
Ladies’ Drawing-rooms, Gentlemen’s Reading
and Smoking-rooms, Billiards, Night Porter.
Hotel Porter waits for all boats.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
supervision of a Continental Chef.
WANTED, MILLIONS ON MILLIONS
Second-hand Chaff, Corn, Flour, Potato,
Coke, Bark, and Copra Bags.—P. B. IVEY &
Co., 141 Sussex-street.
ALAN B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
G. S. CURTIS,
Auctioneer &, Real Property Salesman,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, sth June, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF
FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
11 o’clock, on TUESDAY, the 17th day of
July, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates ; 11 chains post and rail
fencing ; 19 miles 70 chains fencing of posts and 3
wires; 7 miles 70 chains fencing of posts and 2
wires ; repairing, &c., 14 miles 10 chains of exist-
ing fences, and attaching wire netting to the
whole—say 41 miles 70 chains between the Murray
River and the 42nd-mile post on the South Aus-
tralian boundary.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be ob-
tained at the Inquiry Branch of this Department,
and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent,
Wentworth, and Messrs. George Ferguson and
Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be ac-
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-proof
Fencing, Section 1.”
. THOS. GARRETT.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, sth June, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 17th day of July,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the
erection of one gate, and about 24 miles of rabbit-
proof fencing, from a point about 10 chains south
of the 42nd-mile post on the South Australian
Boundary to a point near the 66th-mile post on
the said boundary, joining Oakvale (S.A.) boun-
dary fence.
Specifications and forms of tender may be
obtained at the Inquiry Branch of this Depart-
merit, and on application to the Crown Lands
Agent, Wentworth, and Messrs. George Fergu-
son and Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
aide.
te lowest Tender will not necessarily be i
lenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
'or Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-
vroaf Fencing, Section 2.”
THOS. GARRETT
nr
EWTON
A ND
LAMB.
FURNITURE AND PIANOFORTE
warehousemen,
C A BINETM ‘ KERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
171 ULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM.—SIDE-
-1 BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CH - IRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
(ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
SS»
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and Tice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous posh ions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to onable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Pi ice, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
D
R A WING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embioidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
*?= s
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous size*, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers d vided into comp.rt-
ments by movable partit'ons to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish ng ihe space when T eqnired. Locks
automatically. One of the mo-t useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Lib'ary
or Office yet produced. .Admirably suite Ito the
necessities of profe sional and business men.
D
RAWING ROOM CA RL
NETS.
Eart.v English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vert Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
room?. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
s
Ji
ELF- * DJUSTING CHsIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING E 5 SY CH IRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciali y. Newton & Lamb.
T> EDSTEADS, all sizes.
■* Nickel-plated and Black
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at- lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dming Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 27p. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d,;
Chests of Drawers, from 40 .; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
b ards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
EWTO N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
W a REHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRTNO & O’CONNELL STREETS
CORRESPONDENCE
“ S. Bailey ” : Japan has a population of about
38,000,000. J. Hanley”; You could not do so, be-
cause in France the law requires patented articles to be
manufactured within the country “E. Bosseley”:
Why don’t you, “ as a Freetrader,” point “ proudly ” to
the other “ last new Freetrade industry catching mice
on the Castlereagh River at a shilling a hundred to re-
duce the vermin plague?....“ John H.” (Dubbo) : Your
statement of facts and your comments thereon are alike
too indefinite “S.S.S.”: Between the years 1861 and
1881 Canada imported some 500,000 immigrants, but lost
during the same period nearly twice as many to the U.S.
of native-born Canadians. Canada, for close on
thirty years, has acted the part of wet-nurse to
immigrants who gradually drift south with their
experience to the more-favoured Western States
•‘F.D S.” (Woolloomooloo): We don’t seem to be able to
And your poem.... “ Waratah ” (Tas.): Thanks for out-
tings — “G. 1.” (Brisbane): The editor who classed the
“Antediluvian Order of Buffaloes” among “religious
sects ” wasn’t so far out. The Buffalo is as religious as
any other animal....“ Backblock ”: We have read but
one book of Winwood Reade’s (he is now dead, by the
way): viz., “ The Martyrdom of Man,” and that book
alone shows him to have been a splendid and absolutely
unique writer. If you oan thoroughly read “ The Mar-
tyrdom of Man ” without thereafter taking a pessimistic
view of existence, you must have a mental constitu-
tion differing strangely from that of most men....
“ R. Studdart” : Will fix our eagle glance on your sketch
....“A. Akerman”: An ancient French poet once
laboriously wrote some verses of condolence addressed to
a celebrity who had lost his wife ; but by the time the
poem was ready the celebrity had consoled himself with
another wife. So that bridge to North Shore will only be
thought of in earnest by Parkes when there is another
Premier....“ Cooper’s Creek”: Very suggestive. But
then no woman is a humourist....“ Amo ” (St. Kilda) :
Your joke about a son and heir has been produced in
prose and in verse, and the incident has happened all over
the world. The son is now grown up and the heir is bust.
An Admirer ” : Tiik Bulletin does not depend alone on
its N.S.W. circulation, which nevertheless quite equals
that of any other weekly. The Bulletin circulates in
Queensland more c.opie3 weekly than any sixpenny
Queensland newspaper, and four times as many copies as
any weekly not printed in Queensland. In Melbourne it
sells far more freely than any local paper. If you would
know the extent of its popularity in the South, just
enquire about its sale at the railway-stations and in the
streets “C. W. Bate,’: We have no special skill in
conundrums “J.H.8.” (Summerhill): The volume
you mention has not yet been reoeived “H. W. Dun-
bar” (Melbourne):, Thanks ‘‘J.B.A.” (Padding-
ton): Hardly available for u5e....“ Charles Risoh-
bieth ”: Theme capital, but rhyme and metre
rather shaky “J. Jinkins ” (Echuca): Verses thin
and moral sentiments worn threadbare “ H.A.L.” :
Certainly not up to your usual standard....“ Enigma ”
(Charters Towers): Write to any leading bookseller
“J. E. Ross” (Townsville): In futuro ....“Subscriber
for Many Years” (Parkes): What is the point in your
“ screed ” ?..:. “ Edmund Cottey ” (Richmond): Very
good, yet hardly good enough “Trotter Bethune”
(Moonee Ponds): If we alluded to Job upbraiding the
people of Nineveh then it urns Job who did it right enough.
We are as reliable a 3 a gas-meter on such points
“Lunatic”: With the onward march of the National
sentiment the delirious and liquor-stimulated “loyal”
anthemising of the present will become rarer and rarer,
until at last the man who can sing “God Save the Queen ”
without a pause or a stammer will receive newspaper
mention for soundness of memory, and be carted about
the country in a shov-yan.... “ Australian Native ” : The
Governor of N.S.W. receives £7ooo.per year in cash....
“ Hue ”: Your metre isn’t bad, but your language is
free and numerous. Look at a small piece of yourself in
print:—
Your way is narrow —you narrow lot ;
Your creeds are bunkum, your hell is rot ;
Your “ p?ace on earth ” a flaming sword,
Heaven you preach while earth you hoard.
Where do you expect to go to when you die ? “ Miner ”
(Oobar): We have very little faith in any such institutions,
but, in fairness, add that, so far as prima facie appear,
ances go, the sweep in question ha s always been honestly
condneted.... “ Hoped-for Victim ”: Handed to addressee.
Scene at a Melbourne Suburban Town
Council. First Councillor (speaking on the drain-
age question) : “ We must, I say, gen’l’men, con-
shirrer this question (hie) temperately.” (Getting
red in the face.) “We mush be calm gen’l’men—
by thunder we musiibe c alm ” Second Councillor
(rising up excitedly and striking the table with
his fist) : “ Yes, by .Ter rush’lem, we must. First
man isn’t calm I—l’ll punch’s bloomin’ ’ed.”
General riot, during which Mayor rises from his
chair and goes to the back to have it out with
another Councillor.
A number of Assyrians arrived in Mel-
bourne the other day. Their “cohorts” were not
gleaming in purple and gold this time, however.
You could have put the whole personal estate of
the 27 into a good-sized saucepan, and then have
room to spare for smuggled articles. The
Assyrians have fallen away a lot since we last
read of them being about. That was in the time
of Nebuchadnezzar, if we are not mistaken. They
put on a tremendous amount of frill then. Hence
they are now coming out here to hawk curry-
powder and walking-sticks and chutney and
feather-dusters, and such like varieties. How
Moses and Isaac must chuckle when they see
them ! Moral for young Australia —Don’t you
put on too many frills or you may go to pieces in
a similar fashion some day, and have Moses and
Isaac chuckling at you.
We beg to draw our readers’ attention to the
fact that Messrs Colemane and Sons of Coota-
mundra, are the manufacturers of the celebrated
Eucalypte Oil, about the efficacy of which there
can be no doubt as demonstrated by its many
cures of sprains, gout, &c. They are also the pro-
prietors of the well-known Victory Ointment,
renowned for its rapid healing virtues, the process
of manufacture being entirely different to that of
other ointments. Sydney depot, 17 Cook St,.
TVI nnre Park
The value of the Jubilee presentations
made to the Pope is estimated at four millions
sterling. Not a bad haul for the Poor Fisherman!
The cabled reports of Husk in’s mental
derangement and being kept under restraint are
all moonshine. At latest dates the grand old man was
prowling around the London picture-galleries in
tolerably good health.
Mr. Mortimer Menpes, a native of
Adelaide, has taken London by storm with his
paintings illustrating Japanese life and manners.
A small gallery is filled with works completed
during a twelvemonth’s sojourn among the
Japanese, and every picture has found a pur-
chaser. Mr. Menpes studied high art in Eng-
land, but he had picked up the science of rifle-
shooting in his native land, and first made a name
at Wimbledon butts.
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Coronation Handicap, run at Canterbury Park,
June 28, 1888. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Hcrse, £BOO ; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£2EO; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dal veen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Ajnusements.
aAIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. L. FOLEY.
Sub-lessees and Under the Management of
Messrs. HUGHES and JINKINS.
CARRIAGES ORDERED AT 10.
EVERY EVENING at 8
THE JUNGFRAU KAPELLE.
Swiss Band, Mountain Singers, and Tyrolese
Jodelists.
Prices, 5s., 3s., and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
R
OYA L
STANDARD
THEATRE
ANOTHER DRAMATIC TRIUMPH.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
MOST EXCITING DRAMA,
THE FORGER’S WIFE.
Popular Prices, 3s., 2s., and Is.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
£JRITERION THEATRE^
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
SHAKESPEARE TRIUMPHANT.
EIGHT FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
of
w. j. holloway’s Shakespearian company
and last appearance (prior to her departure for
London) of Miss Essie Jenyns.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY,
Shakespeare’s Glorious Comedy,
AS YOU LIKE IT. AS YOU LIKE IT.
Produced under the sole direction of W. J. Holloway.
Manager for w. j. holloway ... w. h. manning.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
4tb YEAR.
Come early to secure your seats, in this great
NOVELTY OF FUN.
THE SLEIGH* BELLS.
FIELD and HANSON, the GREAT musical kings.
SYI.VO, THE INNOVATOR.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
SYDNEY
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
Mr. R. G. AGINTON, the acknowledged
Champion Fancy and Artistic Roller Skater of the
World, who has just returned from a trip round
the world, has been engaged at an enormous ex-
pense, and will give exhibitions of his wonderful
skill on the rollers every evening for a few weeks
at 9p. m. The Splendid BRASS BAND of the
Naval Artillery will render Choice Selections every
afternoon and evening.
’Buses will leave Wyny ward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bed ford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, la
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB.
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, WEDNESDAY, JULY 11.
Tickets obtainable from Members of the Com-
mittee ONLY.
Double, 30s. ; Gentlemen, 21s. ; Ladie°, 12s. 6d.
W. J. MERRIMAN, Hon. Tres.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Bee.
Box 1023, G.P.O.
OTANY! BOTANY! BOTANY!
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH Director.
PALACE AQUARIUM
j COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopford, Sub Manager.
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz. :
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following ma,kes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sani ‘ary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make)
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Lavatory and Dressing-Room Provided.
Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING AT A QUARTER TO 8,
the
TWO ORPHANS
TWO ORPHANS.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
A L.
Theatre roy
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
TREMENDOUS RECEPTION OE
Mr Bland Holt and his Dramatic Company,
in the most successful of all Sensation Dramas,
THE WORLD.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's.
ATEW OPERA HOUSE.
-Ll Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks.
Acting Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
Last Week but One of
Mr. HARRY RICKARDS
NEW COMEDY and SPECIALTY COMPANY
Every Evening at 8 o’clock,
MA-IN-LAW ‘UP IN A GALLERY.”
Saturday,! Matinee for Schools and Families,
at 2.30. / Children, 6d.; Adults, 2s. and Is.
WIRT ITS GRAND CIRCUS
AND
NEW YORK EQURSCURRICULUM.
Location: ... HAYMARKET SQUARE.
Every Evening at 8.
Gigantic Success !
Houses Crowded to Overflowing !
Hundreds Turned Away !
BEST CIRCUS EVER SEEN IN SYDNEY!
4
Beautiful
LADY EQUESTRIENNES!
4
Come and see the the Great Bounding Jockey
Contest between the Two Australian Natives,
GEORGE WIRTH and MONTGOMERY KING.
Prices—3s., 2s. and Is.
Afternoon Performances WEDNESDAYS
and SATURDAYS at 3 o’clock. All Children
admitted for 6d. Entrance to Chairs and Stalls
in Hay-street, and to Pit in Pitt-street.
ALEXANDER, Business Manager.
ASHEIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
and garden palace
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday. Thursday and Saturday Evenings
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming K vents :
July 7 —Grand Bicycle Match, Clarke v. Lebeau
for £5O a i-ide.
August 4—The Ashfitld Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
G
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
GRAND OPENING for the SEASON,
THURSDAY, JUNE 21.
THIS IMMENSE SKATING RINK
will POSITIVELY OPEN for the SEASON on
THURSDAY, JUNE 21.
GRAND SKATING PROGRAMME.
GRAND BICYCLE and PROMENADE and
DRILL, conducted and performed by all the
principal Cycling Clubs of Sydney, who have
kindly consented to appear for the INAUGURAL
OPENING of the CRYSTAL PALACE SKAT-
ING RINK.
Grand Crystal Pala~e Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE :
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
~ ~ Ladi> s and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulat'ons of the Rink will be
strictly enforced. '
NOTICE.—The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
LBURY ANNUAL RACES.
MARES’ PRODUCE STAKES, 1889,
of 100 SO VS.,
with a sweepstakes of 5 so vs.
NOMINATIONS,
with 1 sov. each, giving description and pedigree
(of now yearlings), to be lodged with the Hon.
Secretary on or before the
2nd' DAY OF JULY, 1888.
Sweep, 5 sovs. for starters, with 3 sovs. entrance,
to be with the undersigned on the night of
general entry. Ten per cent, of the gross amount
to go to second horse ; the third horse to save his
stake. Distance, 3 furlongp.
Weights : Colts, Bst. 101 b. ; fillies and
geldings, Bst. 71b.
Day of Nomination —JULY 2nd, 1888.
CON TEN BRINK,
Hon. Secretary Albtlry Racing Club.
FOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
the oi-iiaoEETOSsr of isr_s.w
AT fiho CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, efco., ars
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rccherchi
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country )
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. Table
de Hdtc at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilhinsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY
THE SPEAMNG HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
TTictoi' la.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, Is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel oontalnß 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladies’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Quests. Qas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
ik D. Spuing £ St,
PROPRIETORS
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQTJIN, N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, Is
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEARING’
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths
Aloock’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. 9. S. Spring,
PROPRIETOR
Business Announcements,
NERVOU S DEBILITY.
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cure foe Nervous Debility and
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist,
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
■
«sr
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory.”
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and is the best of
all Fruit Salines,
bmis-isim, sn, pigomm,
A Preventive of Fever, Lives Complaints, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSONS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England,
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
• •
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
MAY BE. OBTAINED N! LABELLED TINS OH PACKET'S THROUGHOUT ?HI
Hsm
Y&N
“ They fit perfectly , and arc
far superior to all the other
Corsets I have tried."
(Signed) Marie Roze.
THE
PATENT
Diagonal Seam Corset
Will not split in the Seams
nor tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model, Perfect Com-
fort, Guaranteed Wear.
Beware of 'Worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N
Corset stamped “ Y&N Patent
Diagonal Seam Corset, No. 116,” in oval.
Three Gold Medals 1 !
Sold bj- all Drapers and Ladies' Ontflttars
DR, R. J. BOYD.
L.R.C.P., Edln., L.R.C.S. and L.M Edin.,
registered in Great Britain, and New South Wales,
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princess Louise and late
Resident Medical Officer tp .the French Hospital in
London, specialist for the treatment of all Nervous
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter or personally free of
charge, at Edgar House, No 8, Bligh-street, off
Hunter-street Sydney.'
JQ R. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases; price, inoludirg post-
age, 6d. in stamps. Consultation ooste nothing,
and the Doctor will tell you at once whether your
case is curable or not. Address—
DR, RI C ZEE -A. EDS,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.


Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. Gd. up to £l5.
Special Lines:
Anglo-German, by Laclienal 355,
~ ~ ~ ~ steel notes ... 50s.
Organ Concertina, in wood box ... ... 21s.
o
The finest show of ACCOKDFUiN S to be seen
m the colonies from 10s. 6d. up to £5 at any
prices. SPECIAL LINES to suit COUNTRY
ORDERS.
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 80s. Od.
Patent Silver ~ ~ ... 325. Gd.
Patent Steel ~ ~ ... 355. Od.
. 7/6, 10/6, 15/-, 20/-. 25/-, 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality : Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Fittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 35/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
which can be sent post free for 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 4/-, 4/6,
5/- and 5/6 a set.
Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, 9d., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also,
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
Guitar, Cello, Viola Double Das;, Ban,
Bithar. &c„ Be,
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 10/-, 15/-, 20/'-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIAL LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 ~ » » £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL troupes fitted
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to.
P.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SiftfKONSEN, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNEY.
IKA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
IONEOEWIIG MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents foi the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade In all details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers, fcoV; and of the fallowing Special Lines: -PEERLESS GLOSS, St TTY POLISH. Virwr*!rKl,*ffK
IlYtij Tanners' Tools and Materials, indents erwiled an Ear on rattle Terms,
Business Announcements.
ROUTS
Dandelion Bite
We recommend these BITTKRS to be taken twc
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
ing all impure seoretions than any other medioinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitterp, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886,
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them,—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN TIIE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, Which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Trv for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or- three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANF
BITTERS, prepared solely by
KDW, ROW 4ND COMPANY.
Ginger-pop—A Leap-year proposal from a
red-headed girl.
A Mount Morgan shareholder has wagered
£lO,OOO to £lOOO that the shares will by Xmas
reach £2O apiece.
Dear Bulletin, — Your correspondent’s
letter re the Government tanks is right enough, I
daresay, in some points. Let me, however, correct-
a mis-statement. He says the billets are attained
by “ perseverence and sobriety.” Let me state
my experience. I once applied for a tank. lam
R«y , SYRA-rt
r>ROr< x< :
«
H°w LO|V<; HAi/e; xo«^
BEEK t' this iWf-,?
1 DrW. Fo XeAR^.
VVa^5 H |P * '
<raTe: "you k
f , HAD
vj here *LL.-pj* T -r
/ *-)*»''£ feezes j l/51 - ,N?e *
V ' 5T i3>AD.
BARGOWLAHMINE JUSTICE.
not persevering ;I am not sober. But, drunk or
sober, I can drive a donkey-engine, and with tools
can do ordinary repairs. I did NOT get the job
(probably for reasons stated). The man who got
it was son of the next tank’s boss, and he (the son)
can’t fill in a form, sign a receipt, or report a leak
to save his life. He told me, however, that
“ there was money in the kangaroos that watered
at his troughs.”—Yours, Scotty the Wrtnkler.
A CROSS BABY.
Nothing; is so conducive to a man’s remaining a baohelor
as stopping for one night at the house of a married friend,
and being kept awake for live or six hours by the crying
of a cross baby. All cross and crying babies need only
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters to make them well and
smiling. Young man, remember this. —“ Traveller.”
Fever in New South Wales is far less frequent among
the Colonists and (Chinese than formerly. This is owing
to the discovery by them of the curative properties of
Freeman’s Original Chlorodyne. This valuable medicine
checks the progress and rapidly cures all forms of Fevers
and Ague, so prevalent at certain seisons of the year in
many parts of New South Wales. By the older Colonists it
is regarded as a household remedy, and employers of
large bodies of workmen always keep a good stock of
Freeman’s Chlorodyne on their estates.—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
A Lovely and Delicate Complexion. —This is ob-
tained by using Rowlands’ Kalydor, an emollient and
harmless milk for the face, hands, and arms ; it removes
sunburn, tan, freckles, redness and roughness of the skin,
cutaneous eruptions, &c., and produces soft, fair, and
delicate skin. Avoid metallic and greasy cosmetics, which
ruin the skin. Rowland’s Odonto, a non-gritty tooth-
powder, whitens the teeth. Ask chemists for Rowlands’
articles.
A Homely Girl
Was met by us a few weeks ago. Her complexion
was as rough as the skin of a rhinoceros, and as
mottled as sausage meat, her eyes dull and heavy,
and her lips every color but red. Recently we
saw the same young lady, but how different! Her
complexion is as clear and as delicate as porcelain,
her lips twin cherries, her eyes bright as dew
drops. Yet all the difference lies in a rectified
condition of the blood, to accomplish which she
used dr. bell’s bitters.
Dear Bulletin, — Beresford was not first
in the field with the panacea “ Shoot him,” when
; dealing with niggers (I use the word with apologies
|to men off-colour). General Nicholson had a
thingembob, A. D.C., or Adjutant-General, or some-
thing, called Major Brind, during the Mutiny, and
Brind had the interpreter’s work to do, for the
General was like Sir Charles Napier, inasmuch as
he thought that if a man had his “chillum and his
chillum-chee, his brandy-pawnee and his kooch-
parwanee,” he wanted nothing else. If half-a-
dozen natives were caught asleep under a banyan-
tree, Brind asked, “Who are you?” The answer
in India is always the same : “Gharceb admion,”
which means “Poor people.” Then he told the
Genera], “Dangerous men.” “Take them to the
tank.” lik — rlc—rk. That’s the nearest spelling
of the name, for I know not Volapnk, and the
poor people were blessed, for they had inherited
the earth. —Yours, Hiram Abiff.
It is Very seldom
That practising physicians of all schools, not only
endorse a proprietary medicine, but prescribe it in
their practice, yet this is done every day in the
case of dr. belt’s (Kidney and Liver) bitters —
and why?—because it always gives immediate
relief- in all cases of diseases of kidneys, liver or
urinary organs, and has permanently cured some
of the worst cases.
How to Gain Flesh and Strength.— Take after each
meal about a tablespoonful of Scott’s Emulsion of Pure
Cod Liver Oil with Hypophospiiites. It is almost as
palatable as milk, and easily digested. The rapidity with
which delicate children and sickly people suffering from
weakness and wasting disease improve and thrive upon
this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for Con-
sumption and Throat Affections and Bronchitis, is un-
equalled by any other preparation in the world. Any
Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &c. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Inseoticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
FEES OF DOCTORS.
The fee of doctors is an item that very many persons
are interested in just at present. We believe the schedule
for visits is $3.00, which would tax a man confined to his
bed for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over 81,000 a
year for medical attendance alone ' And one single bottle
of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters taken in time would
save the 81,000 and all the year’s sickness.—•' Post.”


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vic.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 3 years .. 7 per cent. | For 1 year .. G per cent.
For G months 4 per cent. | For 3 months.. 3 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Hkad Offices 10, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
BRUITO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE Edwabd Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Stbeet.
rp fl OM A S BUOKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineer*, Lincoln.
„ „ Langland’a Foundry Co., Melbourne, Via.
Hotels.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
i Irst- class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS ... ... Proprietor,
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSGRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOE. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS
Seoond Brick Ho f el Building erected in above
lown, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
la now ready for the reception of visitors.
S very comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
inly. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiser, Proprietress.
Commercial Hotel, Gympie, Queentfii.
THE above is one of the oldest Family anf
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Prioe>
reas mable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Bathß
Mrs, COMPIGNB, Proprietress.
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOTJRNB.
Opposite Railway Terminus, Spenokb-btbeet
YISITORS patronising the above hotel, which
has lately had an addition of over 100 rooms,
will find all modern improvements, such as light,
lofty, and well-ventilated bedrooms, large public-
room, smoking-room, hot and cold baths, shower
and needle baths passenger elevator, electric
bells, telephone, and all other hotel requisites, not
to be surpassed in Australia. Visitors can rely
upon being called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegrams promptly attended to. Prices very
moderate,
PKTER WOODS,
Owner and Proprietor
GLOBE HOTEL, ill bury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee ol
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Bathe,
Reading and Smoking Rooms. Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vio*
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor.
PSAI MS.
(REVISED).
Ilf EAR this, all ye and give ear all ye
invalids of the world, bell’s bittkbs will
make you well and to rejoice.
2. It shall cure all the people and put sickness
and suffering under foot.
3. Be thou not afraid when your family is
sick, or you have Bright’s disease or Liver Com-
plaints, for bell s bitters will cure you.
4. Both low and high, rich and poor know the
value of be l’s bitiers for bi'ious, nervous and
Rheumatic complaints
5. Cleanse me with bell’s bitters and I shall
have robust and blooming health.
6. Add disease upon disease and let the worst
come, I am safe if T use bell’s bitters.
7. For all my life have I been-plagued with
sickness and sores, and not until a year ago was I
cured by bell’s bitters.
8. lie that keepeth his bones from aching from
Rheumatism and Neuralgia, with bell’s bitters
doeth wisely.
0. Though thou hast sores, pimples, freckles,
salt rheum, erysipelas, blood poisoning, yet bell’s
bitters will remove them all.
10. What woman is there, feeble and sick from
female complaints, who desireth not health and
useth bell’s bitters and is made well.
11. Let not neglect to use bell’s bitters bring
on serious Kidney and Liver, complaints.
12. Keep the tongue from being furred, thy
blood pure, and thy stomach from indigestion by
using bell’s bitters.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOR
NEW SOUTH WALES & QUEENSLAND.
Thousands Hastened to their (.raves.
By replying on testimonials written in vivid
glowing language of some miraculous cures made
by some largely puffed doctor or patent medicine
has hastened thousands to their graves; the
readers having almost insane faith that the same
mirmle will be performed on them, that these
testimonials mention, while the so called medicine
is all the time hastening them to their graves.
Although we have
Thousands upon Thousands ! ! !
of testimonials of the most wonderful erres,
voluntarily sent us, we do not publish them, as
they do not make the cure. It is our medicine,
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, that makes
the cures. It has never failed and never can.
We will give reference to any one for any disease
similar to tin ir own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbor, as there is not a neighborhood in the
known world but can show its cures by Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.
A Losing, Joke.
“A prominent physician of Pittsburg said to a
lady patient who was complaining of her continued
ill-health, and of his inability to cure her, jokingly
said : ‘ Try Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters ! ’
The lady took it in earnest and used the bitters,
from which she obtained permanent health. She
now laughed at the doctor for his joke, but he is
not so well pleased with it, as it cost him a good
patient.”
Fees of Doctors.
The fee of doctors at $3.00 a visit would tax a
man for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over
•$l,OOO a year for medical attendance alone. And
one single bottle of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters taken in time would save the .$l,OOO and
all the year’s sickness.
(liven up by (lie Doctors.
“Is it possible that Mr. Godfrey is up and at
work, and cured by so simple a remedy ? ”
“I assure you it is true that he is entirely cured,
and with nothing but Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters, and only ten days ago his doctors gave
him up and said he must die, from Kidney and
Liver trouble ! ”
1 3T None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to-imitate the above.
LICHTNER & CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Fla.otogrra,pla.ic Z3eq.u.lsltes.
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
To all Purchasers of a Photographic Outfit!
AT EITHER
3 % O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES' BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES AND PRICE LISTS FREE.
LICHTNER~ & CO.
Business Announcements.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will reoeive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting ; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive eure in every case he under t kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly inf armed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES Oi’ MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Speer, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES!
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CMETTSS, sIiiFISESTBMESofCME,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices I
ttr Note this Price !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
HT By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 B mm STREET, S7DEE7
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBP. eeo. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Still maintains its Prestige and standi pre-eminent amon
the hosts of other brands as
THIS BEST QUALITY BRTAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Eeware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned sra prroared to enforce the Law against
all persons imitating the l rand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 OLABBNOE-STREET.
GBD. GBD
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
2' OIxTJS’S
NEW ZEALAND
HERBAL RECED ES
TESTIMONIALS.
From the Soudan Contingent Hospital
Corps; also from eminent Doctors and
Students from Sydney Hospital.
MONK’S PILE MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Ask for it and take no substitute.
It is an invaluable cure. See testimonials
MONK'B
Cholera, Dysentery, Diarrhoea Mixture,
A Positive Cure. Sold by all Chemists.
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
MOWB-'P
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
2s. 6d. per Bottle.
Sole Agents ■
Mathey, Nathan & 00,
201 PITT STREET, SYDNEY j
AND
li Liitlk Collins Street East, Melbourne.
T M ' T°T Geor g et °wn (Q.) thinks tha
°ne William Hallier, who gave himself into
custody for shooting an aboriginal wlo had thrown
a spear at him. should at once enter into a contract
tor waving seraphic wings and twanging an eternal
harp up aloft for his special talents are not
appreciated mN. Q Beside , the case had to be
dismissed, a proceeding which very often touches
magisterial bile.
Two men went up to the Oxford Hotel
for drinks Both were members of the so-called
f!vi “Am* Opposition,” and the first man
said ; Although 1 sit on the Opposition benches
still my conscience commands me to vote with the
tjovernment on certain measures.” “Yah 1 ” ex-
claimed Harry Levien-the other fellow—“ The
onl r ,r^l ures you know anything about are
pints. 1 his was cruel, because it was tlie first
man who paid for the drinks.
i a/i°i, su^m^ ffront a clergyman contributor
to Melbourne Hi;Halo “takes the bun.” After
grinding out an article on Scepticism this journal-
istic shepherd went to hear Joe Symes launch
anathemas at it. The shepherd appears to liave
and S Ld P H n he . Proceedings in-a green billycock
l eu d tle i a r d ’ as h ?. also Put his halo under the
’ ‘ n \r ell l V<JrS d ! dn ’ fc klloW who w as in their
midst Mr. Synus,’ saith the shepherd, “did
not feei quite certain whether he was attacking a
mythical, or real clergyman, or not.” A “not'’
is something you don’t meet every day—but to
resume “When he reads these lines I would
fancy that he can draw no other conclusion than
vinifl u 1 fatter— namely, the genuine article,
and l hln d an n 1 l ood A “ rlot ’’' then ’ is real flesh
ana blood- but toresume once more. “And by the
way thus reminds me that his disbelief in the
° f a DIV)n j v,a ry much resembles
his partly-expressed disbelief in my existence.
He did not see me, yet I was present. I there-
fore did epst although lie appeared to disbelieve
j., u°t 80 with a Supreme Being ?"’ If
Winter doesn’t talk seriously to the staff
shepherd we shall have to suppress him under the
few Blasphemy and Bad Grammar Act. It’s
Joseph s disbeliefpn Beelzebub which has snch a
strong bearing on the shepherd’s case.
“Anyone who has ever been in Brisbane
knows all about ‘ Bob Wilson,’ the clever financier
and famous four-in-hand swell of that city. Well,
when ‘ Bob Wilson ’ was complicated into the
Insolvent Court he was followed by a Chinese
merchant, who, by the assistance of some very
cute Queenslanders, was enabled to insolve for
something a trifle under £40,000. But the Chow
bore up wonderfully under these distressing cir-
cumstances. For a whole day after his smash
was recorded he triumphantly walked Queen-
street, asking all his acquaintances, ‘You see me
insolvessy, eh? Eight thousand more li'bility
than Bob Wilson .’ He was more than happy in
his creditors’ misfortune he was glorious. ” — Stak.
Chief Justice Way, of South Australia,
has sold a block of property in King William-
street, Adelaide, to the National Mutual Associa-
tion of Australasia, for £40,000, or an average of
£571 per foot. From this you would think Ade-
laide property was absolutely booming, but it
isn’t. Years ago there was a tremendous rush
from all the other colonies to secure lots in and
around the Holy City, and thereafter stagnation
set in to such an extent that one of the officers of
a Japanese man-of-war, whose acquaintance with
English was somewhat limited, one day expressed
surprise at the enormous wealth of the great Ade
laide capitalist Mr. To Let, whose name you could
see written in every window. A Sydney man who
was < ffered, a few years ago, £27,000 for a mansion
and eight acres of ground he owns in an
Adelaide suburb has lately found himself under the
grim necessity of letting the same to a clergyman
for £52 a year; other Adelaide properties from
which he used to draw £4 and £5 rent weekly have
been let for 15s. or £1 weekly. But barring the
fact that as yet the rents have not come down
much ; Sydney can boast of an almost similar state
of things. Drive where you will, especially in
the eastern suburbs, you meet with scores and
hundreds of houses which are owned by the
opulent Mr. To Let, who is likewise in undis-
puted possession of hundreds of good offices in
large buildings in the best streets of Syoney.
Adelaide property has now taken a turn for the
better, possibly through the baneful influence of
protection to native industries.


PRICE OF
wmsn UHJjUE! REDUCED,
A reduction of Sixpence per Bottle on all of
Warner’s Safe Remedies takes place after th’s date.
Consumers should remember this when pur-
chasing the Medicines.
The Referee.
Another deserter from the “Cabbage
Garden.” Bob Battye, the crack cross-country
rider, has taken up his quarters at Waverley.
• •
An important addition to the Sydney Turf,
Mr. Ross, of Rockhampton, has _ located
himself at “Palmerston,” Waverley, recently
occupied by Mr. Marks.
* * *
Jenkins succeeded in breaking the half-
mile bicycle record at College Sports,
covering the distance in lmin. 24 2-ssec., the 2-5
breaking all previous records.
Mr. Alcock, the secretary of the Surrey
Club, considers Lohmann the best all-round man
in England this season.
* * *
At last we find Englishmen admitting that
Australian visits of cricketers to the old country
has not resulted solely in benefiting the
colonials. The secretary to the Surrey Club
FROM A PHOTO. BY TUTTLE & CO. THE ENGLISH FOOTBALL TEAM.
tated that the club had £OOOO to its credit, owing
principally to Australian matches.
.♦ *
In the first match played by the Aus-
tralians in England versus Mr. Thornton’s
Eleven, Ferris took the last five wickets for three
runs, the last four being dean bowled without a
run being scored off him, his average right
through the match reading 11 wickets for 71 runs.
Turner got nine for 90 runs.
#
A Sydney daily killed Sammy Jones over a
week ago by cable, and now they have reluctantly
brought him to life again. Sammy is not dead,
but he is ill of rheumatic fever, and there is no
chance of his again playing this season. His place
in the Eleven will be taken by a son of Mr. John
Woods, of Manly Beach, who is now at Cam-
bridge. *
Fine weather and large attendance at
Rosehill on Saturday, the occasion being a com-
plimentary meet to Mr. John Bennett. I or
the Brush Handicap, Cinderella had the
most call at 3 to 1, but _ she only
managed to secure a pi ice, the winner turn-
ing up in the 10 to 1 chance, La Yalette.
Marksman won the Bennett Hurdle Race, the
favourite, Ellerelie, failing to run into a place;
the Disposal Stakes fell to Jeremy Diddler: the
favourite, Aristocrat, won the Bookmakers’ Purse
from the Queen; and Lady Rooda brought matters
to a termination by winning The Complimentary
from Geefahr. We are glad to be able to chronicle
that the meeting means £7OO to the deservedly
popular beneficiare.
We would draw the attention of owners to
the fact that the nominations for the Mares’ Pro-
duce Stakes, 1889, must be lodged with the hon.
sec. of the Albury Racing Club, Mr. Con Ten
Brink, on or before the 2nd day of July, 1888.
* *
“Pendragon 4 ” in the London Referee,
rubs it into English amateur lawn-tennis thus :-
“Why, there is fierce competition among hotel-
keepers for the honour of entertaining some of
these latter scot-free and lending them a bit as
well —a bit, too, that is not expected to come
back.” He is also of opinion that a bit might be
made by a tour to Australia. We don’t think so.
Sydney hasn’t gone on lawn-tennis yet, bar the
“upper circles,” and they would, as usual, re-
quire to be on the free-list.
Ned Trickett went down badly before
Hanlan, notwithstanding his brother’s—and
trainer’s—telegram immediately before the race,
that Ned was m great form and would win. Per-
haps the most amusing telegram in this connection
was received in Sydney the day after old Bill
Trickett reached his brother. It stated that Ned
Trickett and his trainer had rowsd over the whole
course in fast time. Considering that it is a
generation since old Bill rovVed a fast hundred
yards, the time must indeed have been remarkably
fast!
* *
Mr. Seddon, captain of the English foot-
ballers, says that most of the New Zealanders and
two or three of the N. S. Walers are individually
equal to any members of his own team. But he
thinks the Britishers are up to more wrinkles in
the game.
# •
This is what “ the noble game of cricket ”
is coming to in Australia. From the Melbourne
Age : “ Cricketer, English, good all-round man,
wants situation.” What club speaks first ?
Dan. Mayne, the well-known Bathurst
(N.S.W.) sporting editor, the language in whose
paper is frequent and free, has just entered on his
sixtieth year. His wife celebrated the occasion
by presenting him with a baby daughter, Mayne
No. 4. Dan is a native of the Hawkesbury — one
of triplets.
* * *
An Australian racecourse arrangement has
been introduced into Ireland by the Marquis of
Drogheda. At last Punchestown steeplechases
the horses wore numbered saddlecloths at the
Marquis’s imported suggestion. By-and-bye the
Britishers will adopt this and other of our im-
provements, such as railing off the weighing-room
and erecting scratching-boards in the paddock.
Surgeon Pinnock, of the Victorian Army at
Ballarat, has retired from the A.N.A. because
his duty to the Sovereign “precludes him from
taking part in public gatherings of an Association
at which it is optional for persons to display
loyalty or disloyalty.” Surgeon Pinnock, we
guess, is anticipating a day when the army will be
called out to suppress “ traitors ” at the point of
the bayonet, and he couldn’t bring himself to
banquet in company with his future foes. Pinnock
first unburdened his soul to Sir J ames Lorimer,
political commander-in-chief of the forces, in a
letter, asking whether his oath of allegiance—
“ and that I will oppose and resist Her Majesty’s
enemies ’’—allowed him to look upon a man who
didn’t drink the Queen’s health without irstantly
cutting down that man with his surgeon's knife.
Sir James answered him that he would best
preserve the peace of Australia by avoiding
“disloyal” society, so Pinnock retired from
the A.N.A. with his uniform unspotted
before the world. The Melbourne War Office
authorities now disclaim any responsibility
for this patriot's action by saying that he _ was re-
commended to remain in the Association and
“ discourage dishonouring proceedings.” This is
nonsense. The loyal soldier wipes out such. in-
sults with belud. Pinnock did well to resign,
and other warriors of a similar persuasion must
follow his lead. Otherwise the A.N.A. banquet
will terminate in a scene of carnage, and respect-
able waiters will come down to robbing the corpses
as they roll under the table. Perhaps, after all, it
will be safest to disband the present army, and
enrol only those who don't drink the Queen’s
health. Thus would unnecessary bloodshed be
averted, for, while the rabid loyalist always wants
to wallow in republican gore, the disloyalist has a
kindly feeling towards men who don’t know any
bettor.
Tlie Conversion of the Hay and Corn Party.
Mr. Copeland’s motion in favour of Protection
for the agricultural industry of New South Wales
was finally disposed of in the Assembly last week,
a majority of 48 members against 35 recording
their fixed conviction that the farmers of the
alleged mother colony are already as prosperous
as they have any right to be. Five Ministei s who
were avowed Protectionists in bygone days voted
against it, either for conscience’ sake or for the
sake of their billets, and among them figured
Messrs. Clarke and Roberts, erst of the
“ Hay and Corn Party,” who demanded
Protection for this self same industry until thrir
mouths were violently stopped with a portfolio
and a large salary apiece. Mr. Copelands
arguments against Messrs. Clarke and
Roberts were precisely the arguments of
Clarke and Roberts themselves before they
were so judiciously provided for by Parkes.
The local production of wheat had fallen from
four bushels per head of the population in 1862,
to less than three bushels in 1886, and the con-
sumption had increased as steadily as the average
production diminished. In every branch of farming
industry except those subject to incidental Protec-
tion, production, as compared to population, was
falling off, and over these things five members of
the present Ereetrade Cabinet had shed bitter
tears in times past, and were prepared to shed
them again should circumstances require. But
for the present they had each 1500 reasons
per annum for forgetting their old con-
victions, and therefore the ancient hay-and-
corn party sat still and made no sign. Clarke
and Roberts dived into the misty depths of their
past recollections but could find nothing. The
long antiquity of 18 months’ office at a high salary
had completely blotted out all memory of the era
when they demanded protection for their bucolic
constituents, and declared that manufactures
might go to the sheol of lost trades, and that
commerce might be swamped in the waters of the
Styx, but that hay and corn must be looked after
even though the heavens should fall on top of the
listening earth. The old gag about the toiling
farmers and the suffering peasantry died away in
their mouths on the day when Parkes gave them
a job; the pathetic chestnut about the industry
which is the root of all national greatness is heard
no more, and the tears which Clarke and
Roberts used to shed over the anguished cockatoo
have dried up at their source. They will fl >w
again when Parkes has sacked the recreant hav-
and-corn agitators and ha« told them, as he told
Haynes, that their support and their society are
equally disgusting to his soul, but till then the
smothered Protectionists of the Foreign-trade
Ministry will remain deaf to their country's call.
+.
The Sydney Sunday News, run by our old friend,
John Haynes, lays down a new grovel in re the
Chinese difficulty in New South Wales :
“ The decision of the Supreme Court in the habeas
corpus cases is, of course, legal and right, as far as our
laws are concerned, but the Government of this country
and the control of our relations with other nations rests
not with the Court but with the Premier. The Court
deals with affairs among ourselves, but the Premier only
has authority in cases between Australia and other
nations. Sir Henry Parkes, as Premier, has decided
the case as between Australia and China.”
Such crawliDg abasement as this was never
written in Australia since the days when Parkes
helped to rush the Treason Felony Act through a
subservient Assembly. According to Haynes,
Parkes is already the uncrowned Emperor of this
continent, and he only “ has authority in cases
between Australia and other nations.” The
people, the Parliament, and the other members of
the Cabinet of New South Wales have no say
whatever in the matter ; the foreign relations of
the country—the questions on which the entire
future destiny of the nation depends—the pro-
blems of peace or war—the issues of the great
combat between the first century and the
nineteenth, between civilisation and degra-
dation—the modern phases of the strug-
gle which the Turanian has waged against
the Aryan in fitful campaigns for more
than 1000 years—are the business of nobody
but Parkes, and when Parkes dies they will be
the business of nobody at all. In the eyes of his
abject worshippers, Australia is Parkes and
pAR * ES is Australia ; andinvasion is
a f™*! the
r ‘°body but Parkes has a y g .
™ tte f r V Th . e
dicant for whom * ® ? d lonmsnn in the
fche length and breadth of
e 7 e « of , hls adrn, r e r s, ; and obscurt s the human
rights of a whole na ion, > , . ,
they claim foXm theexdusive
of deciding of the depths his or n
prance the po u y of a continent which for .0
y ears au S 16 . m , V-ii n(i
A f RKK *> as has dec ded the case as
between Australia and China, and the peopßS
d th p ar ii aillßtl ts <f Queensland, Victoria,
South Australia, Tasmania, and the huge Western
colon y are respectfully invited to believe that they
h voice in the question when Parkes is
* Th h mer ely to keep their “ heye ”
and Ue lo i tiU they see what the
, . . • ’ ,
old man 18 * oin K to do about lt>
Another chance f or the clergy. Some men
.... /. „. , . t
blasting in a mine have just been struck dead.
Advt. from “ Missing Irxends . column ot
Sydney paper:—“S y B . Father dead.
Anyone informing me of the whereabouts of the
above-named will be rewarded.”
A letter of Marshal Ney has been un-
earthed in 1W It was written just prior to his
exeC ution. “ Before 24 hours.” wrote the hero,
„ £ h u ar before God bitterly rfgre tting I
h t h P § more time to serve my country. But
He will know as j have proclaimed before my
fellow . ffod no remorse. ”
’ ...
The real cause of the dissatisfaction ot the
Victorian Bar at the elevation of Sir Henry
Wrenfordsley to the_ vac int Judgeship will at
once be perceived on its being pointed out that
had Dr. Madden or one of the other local leaders
been appointed, £5OOO per annum in briefs would
now be divisible among the rank-and-file cf the
bar.
A blacksmith was brought up in Mel-
bourne a short time ago for hitting a horse with a
hammer. He said the horse had made him mad
by breaking a pipe. “ Was it a meerschaum—a
souvenir given you by some old friend, perhaps
dead now ? ” said one of the magistrates with a
tone of sympathy in his voice. “ No, it wain’r,”
was the sullen reply. “ it were a The
blacksmith was discharged, strange to say.
Dear Bulletin, — In a township, some
miles from Croajingolong (N.Q.) there is the
wonted Chinese camp, where the game of fan-tan
flourishes in company with other heavenly or
rather Celestial recreations. When the P.M.
passes the door of one of the big, frowsy, moth-
eaten gambling shanties, a structure of old hats and
kerosene tins, he pauses and looks in with a far-
away expression in the eye which he keeps on the
main chaftce, but he never sees anything, and the
local policeman is affected in the same way, the
only difference being that the inferior officer has a
furtber-away look, and sees still less than 'his
chief. When a white man drifts in and wants to
take a hand at the game the grimy ape in charge
says blandly, “Magistlate no letem Inklishman
play,’' and if he persists he is generally locked up
for making a disturbance, but no Chinese son of a
gun is ever run in by any chance. Do you want
to know why ? Then let me howl the solution of
a huge conundrum in your capacious ear—the
Chinese camp belongs to the P.M., and the yellow
baboon, who is the father of the fan-tan swindle,
pays better than all the rest put together. Yours
truly, Bung Hi.


Hotels.
®H© Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
Pullament Hottse., Botanical Gardens,
and Queensland Club.
fIIRST-CLASS FAMILY HOTEL.
NATION FOR NINETY.
A Waiter meetß every Steamer.
*®d Telegrams please address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
2° 1A L HOT E L >
VolagnJ WSVILLK . QUEENSLAND.
s?} Pamni lrUno<^ ation for Commercial Gentle
Si °harce Ki B ' vate Sitting-room without
* WW 11 ? 6 and Shower Bath. Billiards
g “Wate. v^ t clasB UAe/. Charges strictly
*heets every Splrits °* 1)110 110811 brands.
HANRAN, Junr., Proprietor,
M p
0 R
_ s -¥. NOTICE.
iiJorni^v! 1:116 firm of Lowry & Bolton)
How travfiin^ 6 nu merous friends of the Firm
Pablic that he has gone to
char fe o 0f the SUNBURST
J*™ 11 henceforth be carried on under
eentraiw TiB r 10n- Sunburst Hotel, Mount
Bl tuated, and facing the cele-
win « ’. Per sons visiting the celebrated
on ,5 oVer y comfort and convenience
lot 0N J;„ eir arrival. BILLIARD TABLE
‘ i ac «omL, ® PRHMISES - also STABLING
P ALDOpt tlo a of THIRTY HORSES, and
k»h2 oll el. q T’ within five minutes’ walk of
BOLTON
B a ria °t Lowry & Bolton),
S T HOTEL,
m ° Unt Morgan.
JI S|OY HOTEL,
j, IREEt . ROCKHAMPTON,
PhP tAss Fa mily Hotel.
SitH^ 80 an<l ®bower Bath.
Stabm! ,room > without extra charge.
iAa' Every accommodation.
AS. WILLIAMSON. Proprietor.
hotel,
I, ILLE . QUEENSLAND.
p B "— ——
80PaiET0R (late of Rockhampton)
Se|s?at Meßvn fche same principle as the
Wa |.~.r d p or diem< meals Is. Bd.
OF
ART HOTEL,
itp 4 M ACk AY.
TwP ..Accommodation for Com-
R’r»cP! lerB and Families.
U 8 ° 8 «V Vf T ' c LASS CHEF.
°°ihf or i, KETS Evkry Steamer.
s»Caveliers a Speoial Study.
B AMPIe ROOMS.
A ‘ V - ROBINSON, Proprietor.
bi NSON, Proprietor.
.BOULIURN.N.B.W
aoc omm°datlon for commercial
* \ oftlB ' JatiltP lolB, Private sitting rooms,
“AMES SIMONS. Prnnrinter.
east-street, rock-
MURPHY, Proprietor.
VtL ' l can « 8a : ~~The “ Western Cham-
\ % Wfi«i^ Commend the Rockhampton
r n friends.”
%
N’t •
aUKI,NBLANa
fot 6(A Mato! Sh ' ed Patronage of His Ex-
-5?% »ea Visit °rs 8 t V6 ’ K *°- M - G - Accommo-
StrWL 5, *i>Wj, Wo-storey buildings. From
S vp'i’ w a ? d hiounf view ® an be obtained of
cn'P °i thn tam of gold, and within a few
**%!„ (i.,n° m P an y's works. Passenger
- from Rockhampton and
tt W. MONCKTQN, Pro-
Monckton and Co.
«0N
Announcements.
<563 to 269 Kont-Stffeot,
H* v#l , Sydney,
su® aiwaya in STOCK ior
to bhe TRADE and
BUYERS
sus.fi
GENERAL hardware,
glass, china,
E A AND
*«thbnwarb,
VSr *^ aa . BEERS and spirits,
general
“WLK MERCHANDISE.
iOßie .._ a *B»6h lor
71* walker ana sons*
Uld Highland Whlßkjr,
J> BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac,
a J. T. QAYKN S
“ohnappa and Geneva,
4 '*f»LVlN and SONS',
Sfilnbnrgh Pale Al*.
Business Announcements.
E. L> MILES,
MINING AND COMMISSION AGENT,
Minins Exchange,
CHARTERS TOWER , QUEENSLAND.
$
y
MANUFACTuRtRS
4 IMPORTERS OF
_
■ay
HATS CAPSk
(
438 CEORCE S T
SYDNEY
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
gTU DY
ECONOMY
and
Hare your Umbrella Frames (s>
corered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made equal
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S,
541 George Street, k
Brickfield Hill, between
Lirerpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasols made to match cos
tumes. Repairs neatly executed
Robert butcher & co.
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEO RGF STREET
SYDNEY
OFAIITHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at QUEBN STREET, BRISBANE.
RELIEF FROM COINS® IN TEN MIMES.
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUND.
The mostoertain and speady remedy foi Coughs, Cold*.
Hoarseness, and all Disorders of the Chest and
Lungs. It haj proved itself tha moat successful prepara-
tion ever offered. Tha sale b Increasing dally.
IT HAS A MOST PLEASANT TASTE.
In the nursery it b Invaluable, as children are fond of
it. Immediately it b taken Coughing? ceases, rest-
lessness b gone, and Kehreshinct tricep ensues.
No lady who has onoa tried it wonld ever afterwards be
without it. Prepared only by
A. HAYMAN & Go. date of Neath),
15, Albf.maklk St., London, England.
Price Is. lsd., 2s. 9d., Is. 6d., & 11s. per bottle.
If not in itoek your Chanitt mil procure it.'
H E ORIGINAL
Baking p 0
I m
W
AWU *4uaH3»° WL<t
©©TAINS© A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
ji-fj: O ft ’ \ M
HI CHEST DECREE OF M EKII
V-V 'v
r-
35THEBEST INTHE WORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAUCHS
meCEivtarne <ni£rmaiional
PR IT E MLDAL
HAIIUfACIIJBE© aYjAlte^OlAiaiOA
Hampub®’’ ®vo®if
AtityAD CMMiSBnbM*
Business Announcements.
M
0 N U M B N T
In Oranite, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing*.
Deiigni and Ultimate* forwarded on reoueit.
J. CUKHIHGHAM,
If AROABBT-STBEET, Wynyabd-hquabb, Bydkby.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
BEECHAM’S PILLS
C±L4
0
PATENT
PILLS.
sR
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams',
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
_ in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Bor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have- the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM'S MAGIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com-
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Beecham’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that the
words “ Beeciiam’s Pills, St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branchesi
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £1,000,000
Reserve Fund... . 500,000
The Bank has Agents In all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, nan offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills cc’lected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN Acting Manager.
CIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE!
The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No Moee MERCURY oh other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Hr. T. C. PBSGHT,
M 8., Ch. M., &c.,
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”
63, PLUNDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Ner-
vous Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Scrofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinal Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, call or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a case unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It w ill cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your case.
CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N.B. —I wish it distinctly understood that Ido not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physician
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
PROGRESSIVE MEDICAL INSTITUTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
jt3T No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 263. G.P.O.
Business Announcements.
Guiness’s
FIRST
Extra Stout.
QUALITY.
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Special Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston & Co,,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney,
ojutim
BHBaawro
WE can recommend the Imperial Haik
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George-street (six doors from
Queen’s-street). A. COOPER, Proprietor.
D* 1 RIDGE’S
FOOD
n> INFANTS INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale In England,
su«l is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should
•3 every wise mother will certainly,
use it.
OR-RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILO*
LONDON. ENGLAND,
jr
MA. BRONCHITIS, COUCHS
AS
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
» VNLY «»
•» ® h
l AM,
tcn
6. STEVENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &C.
COOPERAGE,
387 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
mi's** Moustache mA WWakers,
■EFOM ATTn
Copyright'd,
Boyd’e Beard Elixir did this,
land will do it on either bald
'head or bare face• Forces
heavy Moustache in from 2 to
4 weeks and never failed, OOG
. young men already wear full
beards, having used Ito 3 phis. No injury „ aaeily applied c certain
in effect. Pack«t8 s le. 6 d. each, 3 for Be, ML, poet paid B een9 undm
sover 0 free from observation 0 Address,, IFiramfe ©©icialftOo Sol* AgenS ,
Box T3O, a r,Q. 0 Sydney, W, S, W. .
(Z'ojfyYigkttfi,
SW ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makes'
• 396 PITTgSTREET,
\
M&rqaess on Hir%,
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mehals—
PAKIS.IS7B; CALCUTTA, 1881,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality,
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & CYMBIDItrW
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON’S QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the niowth and
Improving the appearance or the hair,
guaranteed perfectly harmless
ATKINSON'S FLORIDA VTATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the' ehoiceu exotics.
Of all Dealer s, and of the Manufacturer s—
J. Sl D. ATKINSON,
31, Old Ih>n-d Street, London.
Trade Mark—“ White Hose" on “ Golden


POWDER
Absolutely Pure
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
yeast, saleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by jeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powdsb Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES.MOSS & CO.,
v New South Walks.
— IP. R-
IMPOBTKB Of
*r WINBB, SFIBITS, BEERS, &0-, Sc CD,, ’•ft
George and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
SPECIALITIES:—
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 years old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
(old Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, Martell’s and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
ft®" The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-street.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 George Street, Sydney.
GT SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
MST-CUES HUES' EEFniIT HI ui imiOl!,
GIPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdebn & Sons).
Produce Stores gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
wallach bros:
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION,
WALLACH BROTHERS.
VHNI, vmt, FlOfc
For Artistic Posing and ®*rectlTB
owning softness and brilliancy,
Photographs of
SNARLEMONT ft *
ROYAL ARCADK,
STAND PRE-EMINENTLY
I a<J j '
nnHE WONDER OF T
COLEMANE AND SONS
Pure Volatile EucalYP t 0 u J otldl
the only Genuine Eucalypti In
GOLD MEDAL ADELAIDE J
EXglßlTlOS-
■pr'OUCh^Vajrii
All those suffering from Asthm®>
sumption. Rheumatism,
Kidney and Gravel Complaints, ® c^ oß Y %
OIL a SAFE CURE. Our Sk&JJ
MENT stands without a rival 1
eases and Bad Eyes. We I na th o
testimonials than any medlC .U- 0 f sta® p9 Vd »
Posted to any address on r ®°? ? men t 2* %C 1
of Oil, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. ; b>- !
6d. Agent, for Sydney and Sy d ° ey V
MITH, 17, Cook-st., j
HE SCIENC B °jj,D.
l By W. Knox Parkbb, , o 0 M
A Book for Young and °^ d 100
and in cloth, and contains P P
ns. Price, post N^JV
nple free. Those suffering U” a j o nco
ustion and Diseases *.
luable work. Address :
st Office Chambers, corner « OUI
nets, Melbourne, Vic.
ogmsed by thousands oi
aents of humanity their
nised. Fullestdirectionsare snw y j
ry disease IF YOU SUFFER, ysoW*'
tured only at 78 Nbw Oxford- •> go*®* 0
,sers should look to the poo“ 0
she address is not 628 Oxford-str em. R
of
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, VANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Startling reduction! (or a limited period, for Cash only, In oonieqnenoe of the Premises having been sold and great alteration! pending.
COUNTRY ORDERS, WITH RRMITTANOHS, WILL RBCRIVB PROMPT ATTENTION.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 343 GEORGE BTR.I3BT.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
Diving Gear, Brass and Nlckel-platad Shop Fronts.
HYDRANTS, SHIP AND HOUSE SANITARY WARE, PIG AND SHEET LEAD, SPELTER, &C.
Brass and 801 l Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmlthing, Blaoksmlthing. Plumbing,
Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting, of every description.
BOULTON’S "FLUSH,” "VALVE," and " PAN "gCLOSETS, "VACUUM" WATER-
WASTE, PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros.. Patent Air Propellers. Exhaust Fan Cowls, das Fires. Meters,
Warmers. Ac.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
Full Particulars and Prick on Application.
ALFRED LAWRENCE and
130 COLLINS STREET, WEST,
Melbourne.
01 PITT STBS®**
Stdnht.
BARNETT & FOSTER’S Beer Crating, Soda-water, Wine and Cider
Machinery. Steam and Hand Presses for Vignerons for lees, Candle-makers, _ fIJ , o V* j
n«4-n rilnWTI/kWi /\f/* TJ/\/\lrn Lftt/vnrlwr* on<? jjp ltiti 0 .
Boakes’* Liquid Albumen
~ *— i'L
Lignozote for coating inside of vats and casks, preventitive of fusttiness.
family use ; makes block ice in three and a-half minutes, cools water or wine
Merchants, Distillers, etc. Books on Brewing and Malting. na»iu ouu“- -„ .
Waters, a guide to their manufacture, with recipes. Boakes’ Liquid Albumen **
Finings and Preserver. Antiseptic for Butchers, in 18-gallon casks. Crawford^^
Lctixiiiuao , lixetivca uiula 100 xxx bxxxoo cvxxu. orxxorxx. mmuuoo, rrnuw w . _ - r
invaluable little machine will be found a perfect boon in country districts (P* /old* 6V
Corking and Capsuling Machines. Hop Aroma, Bohemian Hop Extraot, Salicylic pic a
annniioH fnr matinff Dandelion Ale, Dandelion Bitters, Lemonade, Ginger - tfr
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Application. -
of “THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’ JOURNAL, *"!«*«*'
«m «PTPT-P TRADE REVIEW." Speoimen Copies P° BU
Publishing Office
WINE AND SPIRIT
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository: - -5, 7,9, 11 LATROBE STREET
Metropolitan Manufactory: - 32, 34, 36 BRUMSWICK STREET,
<2h IE -1 . PICKLES SOInTS, Ceurrla.g'e
m- THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA. •
WEST, WELBOW
FITZBO f
W
w
h
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY,
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE. „ TT nrE OF W
NEW TABLE.-TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS A POLICY UNDER THIS y CLASS ™E WHOL F|sP
LTMS PAID being RETURNED as an addition to the sum assured in the event of death within the TONTINE PERIOD OR IN EVEN I Oh .SURVIVAL.
-- • ggf Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
MIUMS „
TION IN TONTINE SURPLUS.
LEA & PERRI NS SAUCE
...
m
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHI R&
5.4 UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public, Lea, and Perrin»
have to. request that Purchasers see that the Label On every fattfo
hears their Signature thus —
-4
without ivhich no bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRIftS* Sauer, and see Name on Wrapper, Label , Bottle and
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester;. Crosse and
Blackwell, London, firV., drV. • and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
W]Nta»)e AcootAt MoMTsrunUb Jossra ft Qo.; Davu> Cohjq* ft o tC. ay
TEETH LIKE PEABL|
«Wte And «ound teeth, perfect freedom from decay, ahealthy Action of the K'-nis, w**®*
telly f ragTant breAth can beet be obtained by discarding gritty tooth powder* anc »»
3@d using daily
«ae teeth, prevent* and arrests decay, eradicates scurvy, strengthens the gum", r~ ef of
•(pleasing fragrance to the breath, while its anti-septic and anti-Bcorbutio properties
laighly beneficial influence on the teeth and gums. All Dentists allow that neither „ a r«f'
TflAfltM PAn nnoiiVilw Via ah fiffipApimm fnr wnliaViinr fViA tAAf.h And nn>tranfin<* dftPAV W ■
pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polishing the teeth and preventing decay •* *
. .. . yCANDS’ ODONTOJhas always proved it* B ®'
aon-gritty tooth powder: such BOWL
A No other'Odonto is genuine. ,
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL u «. a.
fair and golden-haired people and children. .
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR beautifies the complexion, eradicates aUj^gjr^
defects, and renders the skin soft, smooth and delicate. Ask anywhere tor oyy
erticles. of *). Hatton Uardeito London, and avoid apeitow end pernicious lAllann— Pi
Wholesale and Retail Agents — Elliott Bbos., and E. Pbosseb
TO S'D’KVETOES.
Tt
HE most perfect Theodolite Teipod in the world is “ Wieaoner’s New Patent" with traversing head. A few of the many reasons for this bold assertion g . it) 1
the leading Government and private surveyors of the present time; it is lighter than the old style ; possesses ample traversing motion ; cylindrical stem with broad steady bearing
' '• * ’ ’ ’ J ' *-*•-' --■» 1 ' ’ 5 f ' ' ■' ' ' is of six feet ; any number of install )*
etc-,
T . t . ..
by wear (all frictioning parts being hammer-hardened and alternately of gun metal and brass) j can be made any length from less than four to upwards
the same leg (old caps being quite sufficient for fitting); and is by far the cheapest because it is everlasting, as proved by Wiesener’s former design, and saves its cost in a month’s use
changeable can be ordered by wire and be sent same day’s post. It is equally effective for all classes of work, from the finest town alignment to the roughest mountain work, e $
oulars, or ‘send caps of old legs along to WIESENER’S STEAM FACTORY and DIRECT IMPORT STORES, SYDNEY, by far the largest concern in this line in Australia, Wbe
/ Most Imfboved Goods can be inspected or Manufactured,
