

The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 441.
SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1888.
Price, 6d.
~ of
/-I ’PSACH netI7 ,
f
r
Buchanan's Little Joke.
SPEAKER YOUNG: “AH! I DON'T SEE HOW I CAN SIT DOWN THERE ANY MORE."


The Bulletin
The national Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £10*)
Half-yearly 0 IS 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclf.od, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
11 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation Or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
Sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, Or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every Week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sxjdney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers. With whom we do not wish
to interfere.
ibtJZaUetcn,
SATURDAY, JULY 14, 1888.
John Dunmore Lang.
Memorial brasses and monumental columns
are man’s weak protest against decaying
mortality. He feebly scratches some more
or less honest lines on the one, or piles
masses of stone each Upon each to form the
other, to fix the memory of one of his fellows
who has thrown off’ this muddy vesture of
decay and left it lying idly by like the shell
of a flown bird. When the survivors apply
to the record of the dead man’s life the
little rule-of-thumb by which men commonly
appraise worth, and according to their lights
find that it was great, these insects cun-
ningly fix the lineaments in wax or pigments
before the sharp lines blurr and the familiar
features rot away. Then they craftily pro-
ceed to mimic their dead brother in bronze
or iron, and so make a statue, which they
subsequently unveil amid much blare of
band-music and huddling together of human
masses, who smoke and spit, and cheer
together, and presently go away and drink.
This is the popular apotheosis of a “Great
Man.” Sometimes the idol is a calf, like
Aaron’s, or an ass, like some statues of
princelings we have known. Sometimes
the people dance round the simulacrum of a
despot, like that which stood in the Place
Vendome, or they bow before the embodi-
ment of some thought, or hope, or dream
which is forgotten, like the figure of Vishnu
in some dim Indian Temple. But usually
these statues are erected by common men to
other common men, who have succeeded by
skill and tact in common artifices, and in
eluding mischances in the common kennel of
life. Statues are erected to Success, and to
Common Sense. The character of a people
is formed by its public monuments, for these
are the popular tributes of admiration 1 1
certain ijualities that are assumed to stand for
public virtues. When young countries erect
statues to public men they recommend the
characters of these men as models on which
to form the national character. It is pro-
posed to erect in Sydney a statue to the
memory of the late Dr. Lang.
* * •
Just 10 years ago a great crowd of people
collected together in Sydney, one Saturday
afternoon, to follow to the grave this man a
mortal remains. He had lived more
than half a century in the colony,
making many friends and many enemies.
At one time Sydney would have been
unrecognisable without its Dr. Lang. He
came to the colony a raw Scotch boy from
Aberdeen, at the age of 24. He was a
fighter in earnest. “The Lord took de-
light in the strength of his thews,” and from
the moment he set foot in the colony for
more than 40 years this combative Scotch
parson fought and wrestled with all the
rugged strength that was in him against the
world, the flesh, and the devil, in the parti-
cular forms in which they opposed them-
selves to his pugnacious antagonism. The
blood of the old fighting Covenanters was
ruddy in his veins as their burr was rugged
on his tongue, Lang was a Presbyterian, a
Scotchman, a preaching person, a man of
war, a born politician, and besides all this,
a man with a very characteristic individual
personality. Add to this the fact that he lived
and occupied a position of some personal influ-
ence at a time when the colony was a penal
settlement, and the only recognised influence
was an official one. Under such circumstances,
such a man could not withhold his hand
from the fray. If there was no fray it was
his business to make one. He approached
the position from his own peculiar point of
view, and when he succeeded in raising a
tumult he leaped into the thick of it
with a Bible in one hand and a claymore
in the other. He never entirely lost
sight of either one of these weapons.
Worsted with the claymore, he crushed
his opponents with a text or a sermon;
warned off the domain of theology, he cut
them down with the sword. To his Scotch
spirit, English, Irish, and foreign immigra-
tion was objectionable. To his Presby-
terianism, Anglicanism and Roman Oath' lie
ism were abhorrent. His brother and father
came to the colony about the same time, took
up land,became masters of assigned servants,
and threw in their lot with the early colonial
syst’-m. The racial and family instinct was
strong in Lang ; he threw in his lot with
them as a sympathiser. To the Emancipist
class—“ with their limbs still blue with the
marks of the leg-irons,” he said —he was a
merciless opponent. His family interests
were opposed to theirs. He came into con-
flict with the official classes because they
objected to some schemes of immigration in
which he engaged, by which he insisted on
bringing out exclusively Scotch immigrants
Both these classes he engaged in combat,
and smote them hip and thigh, winnowing
the wicked with all the zeal and unction of
Samuel when he hewed A gag in pieces
before the Lord in Gil-gal. He was a fighter
in earnest.
* * *
But Lang was one of the most deeply ard
rankly prejudiced men that ever came to
this refuge of bigots that we have established
in Australia. His outlook was narrow. The
squabbles of religious sects were of more
importance to him than the welfare or the
future of a nation, and the healthy strength
of the man’s honest but concentrated nature
wasted itself largely on unworthy objects.
Dr. Lang was, unfortunately, blinded by a
rabid sectarianism that fathered a suspicion
of what he called
“ The famous conspiracy to Romanise the Southern
Hemisphere by means of a vast amount of Irish Roman
Catholic emigration to Australia. . . . And we, the
Protestants of Australia, are feebly struggling all the
while to save our adopted count*y from the unspeakable
calamity and curse of the incubus of Irish Popery.”
The “Luciferian pride of Bishop Nixon,
of Tasmania,” “ that right honourable Eng-
lish Puseyite of Scotch Presbyterian descent,
Mr. Ex-Secretary Gladstone, ” and innumer-
able other phrases of the kind with which
the published writings of the Doctor abound,
shows that the man’s outlook was contracted
by racial and religious narrowness to a
degree that left little room for just conclu-
sions on large questions. This was the
fault, however, not of the man but of his
circumstances. He was a conscientious
bigot. Saturated with the bitter Calvinistic
spirit, it soured the healthy current of his
b'ood and dulled his sympathies. He has,
in consequence, earned for himself the
honour of being the first to intro-
duce into Australia those racial and
religious differences between sect and sect
and class and class, which have grown up
and flourished rankly since his time, and
divided the broad channel of popular opinion
and public spirit into muddy rivulets and
dribblings that begin in a healthy instinct
and end in sectarian squabbles leading no-
where. Scalawag politicians have used these
miserable differences to obscure all great
issues. If public opinion asks for Protect ion,
it is only necessary in New South Wales for
the politician who desires to evade the ques-
tion at issue to declare to his party that “Pro-
testant Ascendancy must be maintained.”
If the mind of the country is racked
by a doubt as to whether the Chinese
should be poll taxed or provision made for
the cancellation of a deficit, the question is
settled to everybody’s satisfaction by a de-
claration that nothing will be done detrimen-
tal to Irish interns. What bearing these
assurances have on the questions raised is
too occult for the ordinary '.-fund to perceive.
But the results are apparent to everybody,
and for the most vulgar-minded and ludi-
crously illiterate member of that branch of
the legislature which is elected by the people,
it is sufficient that he can whistle “Boyne
Water” cn the one hand, and dance an Irish
jig cn the other, according to the fluctua-
tions of parties, to make him a responsib’e
Minister of the Crown. This is one of
the things we owe to the vigorous personality
of Dr. Lang, who boasted that he was the
first to introduce the sectarian and old-
world national element into Australian poli-
tics on the occasion of the first election for
Port Phillip.
• * *
Against this we have to put the fact that
Lang was the first man to look out into the
future, and, in extispicious mood, to presage
the coming time. He was the first to
whisper in the ear of the infant Australian
Democracy the hope of a new day when the
work of Adams and Jefferson would be
done in Australia, and a new power sprung
into being under the naTeoflh? RepuVic
of the United States of Australia. He wrote
his book on “ Freedom and Independence
for the Golden Lands of Australia” under
the influence of this splendid vision of the
coming time, and if it is disfigured by many
things that the wider cutlook of to-c’ay has
discounted, the central idea of an indepen-
dent Australia distinctly remains. It is
true that Lang's Australia was not an Aus-
tralia for Australians, He deprecated the
introduction of what he thought the pesti-
ferous doctrines of Continental Socialism.
British institutions regulating property, social
conditions, religion, and all the state of man
were never out of Lang’s eye when he
wrote on this subject. No Adams or Jef-
ferson who would cut away root and branch
the whole fecund growth of the feudal sys-
tem, and go back to those first principles in
legislation that the primal conditions of a
new country require, were part of Lang s
scheme. The sto yof Land Nationalisat’on
had not been received in his day. He saw
no improptie f y in grafting on the young and
hcahhy shoot of Australian life the rank and
cankered growths of ages of social condi-
tions with which the people of a country
not saddled with vested interests have
tiothing to do. The time was not ripe
for this. Lang’s view of the future
was more of an instinctive impulse than a
logical, matured, and cartful judgment. He
was the herald of the future, however—the
cock that crew for the dawn that las not yet
come. “ Your Lordship,” he once wrote in
remonstrance to Earl Grey, “has been for
three years virtually knocking at the gates of
futurity for the President of the United
States of Australia !”
* * *
This is the man to whom it is now pro-
posed to erect a statue, and, so far, Tbe
Bclietin has no objection. Dr. Lang
did both harm and good in his day.
A man c f such pronounced individuality
must have done either or both. _ But
he personith s the first intelligible
aspiration towards the future of the
Australian Democracy, and in his day,
and according to his lights, he did what in
him lay towards the realisation of his ideal.
We must take the bad with the gocd in such
a man, and it is much to say that none, not
even of the bitterest enemies of Dr. Lang
ever made, could accuse him of dishonesty
or hjpccrisy. He was fond of hitting hard,
but he always hit straight out. He was the
best type of what is called an “Australian
patriot " —for a Scotchman I —that our early
history has yet presented us with. To erect
a statue to any man is a serious public
responsibility. A tablet or a bust in a
church or hall or private building is an un-
important matter, but a statue or a column
in the open places of the city charges the
popular sentiment of the general public with
a sense of responsibility for the man so com-
memorated. There can be no greater piece of
public impertinence than forahole-and-corner
committee to take upon itself to express the
public sentiment in public monuments with-
out giving that sentiment an opportunity
of declaring itself on the subject. We have
statues of queens and princes, and it is
proposed to foist upon Australia a statue of
our first gaoler-governor. While the
standard is so low as this a statue to John
Dunmore Lang will be a distinct advance.
But if erected at all the statue should only be
allowed on the condition that it express the
Australian national sentiment. Failing this,
any memorial of the late Dr. Lang should
be relegated to a private building, and de-
prived of any public significance.
The N.S.W. Property Tax Bill.
The Paekes Government’s Property Tax Bill is a
measure which has been slumped together in a
weltering chaos of deranged finance and battered
political economy, and rushed in frenzied haste into
the New South Wales Assembly.] ust at the time when
the Treasurer declares the revenue to be so pros-
perous as to make all additional taxation utterly
unnecessary. The country at large has greeted it
with a unanimity which is beyond all precedent.
Protectionist and Freetrade papers have risen
with equal fervour to denounce it as a piece of
complicated stupidity such as even New South
Wales has seldom been privileged to gaze upon.
The measure is drawn up in the dashing Roman
style which has characterised most of the mea-
sures drafted by the present Administration.
Messrs. Paekes and Burns are both woefully bad
shots with an Act of Parliament, and the person
whom they hit is almost invariably the one they
never dreamt of aiming at.
if *
The so-called Property Tax Bill, by a wonder-
ful exhibition of foolishness, misses three-fouiths
of the property in New South Wales, and exempts
at least nine-tenths of the property-holders.
Firms of not more than six members may own
assets to the amount of millions sterling without
being assessed to the extent of a single copper, but
firms of seven members and upwards, trading as
public companies, are charged 4d. in the £ an-
nually on their paid-up capital (exceeding £500),
reserves, deposits, investments, ‘and other
sources of profit ”—a wonderfully comprehensive
term, which covers about as much ground as any
other five words in the English language. The
advantages of this plan are obvious. A merchant
trading on his own account is a palpable indi-
vidual who is liable to get into Parliament and
vote against Paekes if his corns are trodden
on, but a company is an impersonal thing—a loose
association of individuals whose profanity loses its
force through being spread over so many separate
atoms of humanity. And even apart from this
the company is a safer object to tread upon than
the capitalist. Pakkks’s policy has always been
to tax labour and exempt capital, and companies
represent more or less the principle of co-operative
labour. Industrial enterprises are often floated
into companies when they cease to become
profitable to their original owners, and it is
only in this latter stage of their existence that
they are to be subjected to imposts. A pros-
p rOUJ private firm seldom rtaiis s less than
25 per cent, on its capital, but even the
most successful of companies is gratified by
the distant possibility of a 10 or 15 per cent, div i-
dend. Very few ever attain to such good for-
tune, and in the case of a large number even th e
original capital has vanished for ever, and the
enterprise drags out a miserable existence by
means of calls on its unlucky shareholders. In
this latter case the co-operative institution is re-
quired to pay a tax on the amount of its losses,
and each succeeding lots involves increased taxa-
tion. A duty is thus levied on insolvency and
poverty and ill-fortune, while the bulk of the pros-
perity of the colony goes free.
• •
Further, the Property Tax Bill means Protec-
tion for the foreigner against Australian industry
a piolicy which has always been pursued more or
less secretly by the joint imbecility of the Parkis
Cabinet, but which is now followed openly and
undisguisedly. Regarding this view of the case,
the Sydney D.T., which is already wavering in
its allegiance to the Old Man of the Sea who sells
imported calico in York-street, says
“ A tax upon associated labour within the c&lony
amounts to a protective duty in favour of the importer of
the article which such labour produces. Take a company
starting here for the manufacture of woollens. Thdse
woollens come into our market subject to duty in the
shape of Ihe tax on the capital employed in their produc-
tion. They are therefore placed at a distinct disadvantage
as against the same artices manufactured abroad. This
is hardly the sort of thing that might be expected from a
Government which came into office for the main purpose
of constructing a scientific Freetrade tariff The wnole
principle of the Bill is inimical to the interests of local
labour. It hampers the working capital which enters into
partnership with labour in industrial enterprise and
leaves the realised and superfluous profits of individual
monopolists untouched. When capital and labour asso-
ciate in this way to tax one is to unavoidably tax both.
And the benefit of this tax will be reaped by the importer,
whose goods enter into free compel tion with the handi-
capped local product.
The provision for taxing the assets of life in-
surance associations—whether proprietary or
mutual —is open to objection on almost identical
grounds. Life insurance is necessary to the poor,
while to the rich it is a mere luxury. The pile
which the M ‘Millions of New South Wales have
accumulated in their lifetime makes a policy of
insurance utterly superfluous to their descendants,
yet, unless the M ‘Millions are foolish enough to
carry on their trade under the limited liability
statute, their pile escapes taxation, while a dis-
graceful impost is levied on the sums which the
labourer scrapes together annually in order that a
legacy of £lOO or so may be available at his death
to save his family from total destitution. And
even in the mode of levying this foolish and heart*
less contribution the dense stupidity of the
authors of Ihe measure looms forth. The clause
dealing with this matter unrolls itself as follows
“ Every life, fire, marine, guarantee, and other in
surance company carrying on business within the colony
shall pay tax upon a taxable amount, to be represented
by the total amount of its pa : d-up capital and invested
funds in this colony, and if such company has no capital
subscribed in this colony, its taxable amount shall he ihe
total amount of the assets in this colony, together with
such an amountof its paid-up capital as shall beequal to the
average paid-up capital of the insurance companies which
carry on their principal business in this colony.”
This may be sound statesmanship, but to the
ordinary mind a plan by which a company is
taxed according to the amount of money owned
by another company seems subversive of every
principle of that common-sense which consists in
paying 20s. in the £.
• * *
A brain-racking clause relating to banks is the
chief remaining feature in the Bill which Paekks
constructed. It reads thus
“1. Every banking company shallbe liable to taxation
in manner following, that is to say— (a) If the principal
office of the company is within the colony, or if the com-
pany carries on its principal business therein, the taxable
amount shall be the whole of the liabilities of the com-
pany (including therein its paid-up capital, invested and
reserve funds, and deposits in this colony) as shown by
the last published statements of the company preceding
the return furnished by such company pursuant to this
Act. ( h ) If the principal office of the company is not
within the colony, or if the company does not carry on
its principal business therein, the taxable amount shall be
the total amount of its liabilities in this colony, together
with such an amount of its paid-up capital as shall be
equal to the average paid up capital cf the banking com-
panies which carry on their principal business in this
colony, and funds as shown by the returns of company
published in the Gazette for the year or half-year or other
period last preceding the return furnished by the com-
pany pursuant to tins Act.”
As far as can be ascertained from a thoughtful
reading of this clause, an Australian bank
is to be taxed, net so much on the money it
has earned as on what it owes—and the impost
is so fixed that it pays equally on what it hasn’t
got and on what it has. The foreign bank, on
the other hand, is to be taxed on the basis of what
it hasn’t got in the colony added to what other
banks have got, with “the funds as shown
by the returns of company ” published
for the year or half-year, or any other time
piled up on the top of the other things. This
scheme opens a wide field for obtaining revenue
from unfortunate institutions, and it is hard to
imagine anything wider or more comprehensive
unless it took the form of a 10 per cent, duty on
the things that haven’t happened and a poll tax
on the men who were never born—the same to be
charged to the people who would have been their
relatives if they had ever existed. But the Pro-
perty Tax Bill cannot be judged by any ordinary
standard of sobriety. It taxes Tooth’s Brewery
on a valuation of £900,000, though if the business
had remained in private hands it would not have
been liable to contribute a single copper. It
drops alike on the just and the unjust. It falls
on the Australian Mutual Fire Co , whose 2s. fid.
shares are quoted according to the S.M. Hera i.n
at 16s. a-piece, for a duty cf id. in the £ c n its
paid-up capital of £12,500, and it levies on Hud-
son Brothers, whose stick is quoted at 70 per
cenb below 1 par., for about 20 times this
amount. It is a measure constructed to sit
with stunning force on every enterprise
which is down, and to pay due respect to
everything that is up ; it protects the importer at
the expense of the local manufacturer and the rich
at the cost of the poor ; it charges assessments on
debts, and levies a tax on capital that is lost and
on. assets that never existed, and in a general sort
of way it levies on the commercial things that
ain’t so. It is a monument to political denseness
and ignorance, and when it is embalmed and put
away in the museum of busted antiquities it will
serve to excite the wondering laughter of future
generations. Of such materials is fame con-
structed.
The Clergyman and the Emperor.
De. Jepfebis, of Sydney, rose as usual the other
evening to superintend the earth, and dwelt elo-
quently on the necessity of doing nothing and
letting things slide, and pointed out the beauty of
everything as it is, and the holiness of everybody
who has a good salary. Most well-paid men
are filled with the same admiration for the
system which declares pood dividends, and it is
only the needy who thick that this tamsiiial


sphere wants revision. The subject under dis-
cussion was the weary story concerning the super-
human goodness of Kaiser Frederick, and the
following remarks shine out conspicuously in the
Sydney Morning Herald report
“ Sorrowful to mcst, and causing exquisite pain to
many, was the expressed objection of three parliamentary
representatives to a sentence of the well deserved eulogy
pronounced upon the deceased Emperor That ‘his
death was an i.reparable loss to fieedcm and human pro-
gress.’ There are subjects on which the pulpit should be
silent, there are subjects on which it is fitting to speak,
and he, as the mouthpiece of many of his fellow-Chriitiaiis
conceived it to be seemly and right to speak on this occa-
sion. The interests of Britain are almost identical with
those of Germany ; the future of Britain is largely con-
ditioned by that of Germany. They are the two great
Powers of Europe, which profess a common faith, and
which are on the side contra hastes of peace and order.”
“ Peace and order ! ’ The words somehow call up
hideous memories of Schleswig-Holstein and
Hanover, and they awaken recollections of the
appalling tyrannies practised in unhappy Poland
only two years ago. “ Peace and order ! ’ Here
is an illustrative story which concerns our old
friend Herr Tkchow, well-known as a teacher of
gymnastics in Melbourne ;
“ It was on July 7, 1848, the year of the revolution.
Berlin was partly in the hands of the insurgents, and
hourly expecting an upri-al which would prove beyond
the power of the well-trained soldiers to withstand. A
regiment, commanded by Captain Von Ratzner, was
stationed in the armory, now the ‘ Hall of Fame,’ oppo-
site the Crown Prince's palace, and on the point of firing
upon a band of the insurgents, trying to force their way
through the windows. Just at that moment, Lieutenant
Tkchow appeared upon the scene and persuaded Von
Ratzner to countermand his order ana withdraw his
command. It was done, but to the disaster of both. Tne
case was at once reported, and a military court condemned
Yon Ratzner to 10 years’ imprisonment, and Tkchow',
who was at the head of the military ‘ Turne Halle,’ to 15.
The captain was soon after pardoned, strange to say, hut
Tkchow- t soaped after a confinement of 10 months. He tied
to Baden, taking part in the revolt there, which
was suppressed by the late Emperor, then Prince
of Prussia, and proceeded thence to London,
where he founded the first ‘Turn Halle.’ In 1852.
he went to Australia, and has been lost sight of
and forgotten during all the intervening years. Grown
"ray and aged in the meantime, the desire came to spend
his last days in his native land, where a sister awaited
him. Landing in Geneva, he wrote home, and, in
answer, the following warrant w-as published : ‘ The ex-
Lieutenant Tkchow, about 73 years of age, court-mar-
tialled in 1848, who escaped from prison after 10 months
incarceration, is wanted. Any one finding the said
lieutenant is requested to report his whereabouts, that he
may be brought to the fortress of Magdeburg to serve out
the rest of his sentence.’ ”
For 40 years Germany, the land of peace and
order, has been waiting to wreak its vengeance on
this obscure victim because of what he did and
his was no unmanly part —in the dark days of
'4B. And the i eyime of Frederick, whose
death is an “irreparable loss to freedom and
human progress,” had no batter hospitality to offer
to the Imperial “reformer’s” fellow-apostle than a
15-years’ lease of a dungeon in Magdeburg. Paster
Jefferis might consider this item when next he
drivels over a dead monarch. Let every free-born
Australian read this, the letter of the manly old
grey-headed Gustav Tecroyv, and then judge
between The Bulletin and those who go out of
their way to slobber over dead emperors :
[Copy, |
A WARRANT.
(To the Editor of the Volkszeitung, Berlin.)
Sir,—l think that your paper of the 7ih of this month
was the firs'; to take notice of the warrant issued by the
Prussian Government against me. I thank you for the
manner in which you referred to the case, and beg to be
allowed to send you farther particulars. ,
I emigrated to Australia in 1852, tried gold-digging,
farming, and finally I became teacher of gymnastics in
Melbourne. Last year I gait ed leisure enough to carry
out the long-cherished plan of visiting my native country
where 1 hoped to have the joy of seeing the greatness of
the fatherland and to take a last farewell of the friends
and remembrances of my youth. But 1 his hope was not
to be realised. Upon my way from Naples to Berlin I
received the news that I could not enter Germany without
the special permission of the Empercr, as my implication
in the revolutionary events of 1848 and 184!) had not been
pardoned, nor did the various amnesties of Emperor
William apply to my case. Accordingly I broke my
journey in Switzerland, and forwarded a petition, re-
ceiving, however, a refusal. A renewal of my endeavour
was at first prevented by the long illness of a daughter
traveling with me, and then interrupted by the death of
Emperor William. On the 23rd of last men'll I forwarde d
a new petition to his present Majesty, but have up till
now—just five weeks —received no other answer than the
warrant dated the 27th March, and issued the 6th of this
month in the Reich Alzkigeb. Judging from that, the
hopes expressed by the Reich Freund and other liberal
papers that under Emperor Frederick the man of 73
years shoved not be in prisone 4, sesmed to be rather rash.
1 can only imag.ne that this form of an answer was
chosen by the authorities concerned in order to add abuse
to the disappointment they were causing me. But after
forty years (one is inclined to let the stiff military spirit,
of which we Prussians are so proud, have its little eccen-
tricities), it seen s too much altogether. Of course Ido
not entertain the idea of justifying myself with the
gentlemen concerned for one moment, and os ould rather
attempt to wash a negro white rr to draw honey out of a
block of marble. However, as my name has been dragged
before the public in such an undesirable manner, 1 feel
that I have the right to appeal to the public, and, there-
fore, I request the Volkszeitl no and other journals of the
liberal party, to accord me their help for this purpose.
Tne question is about two fao l s—the at'ack on the
arsenal in Berlin and the insurrection in Baden. Con-
cerning the first, I have but little to add to the account ot
it given in the issues of your valuable paper of the 7th
and Bth inst. I became accidentally involved in the
matter, I had nothing whatever to do with it officially.
In fact, I was on furlough at the time, in order to
further my- candidature as commander of the “ Bur-
o’trwehr” of Berlin. My action was perhaps foolish
.as well as uncalled for, but my r motives were pure
ones. Treason was spoken of at that time, and now
again. But the trial before the military court and the
(decision of the same show that there was nothing of that,
for Captain Von Ratzmer, officially respocsible, was sen-
tenced to 10 yeais' fortress for “negligence whilst cn
duty,” and 1, as promoter and helper, to 15 years, and we
both were dismi sed the service. If treason Lad been in
.the question, a triplet had been certain for us. There was
once a Romm who sprang into an abyss in order to save
his country, and his name has been for 2000 years now the
synonym of noblest si If oenial. I did something similar.
I willingly gave my life, full of the proudest hopes, be-
cause 1 thought that I was serving my country, and my
qreward is—a warrant.
(flien the insurreotion in Baden. I was, a military 7
prisoner in the ter.regs ot Madgeburg when the Frankfort
called the German people, to arms. ‘
King Frederick William ths Fourth, had refused the
Imperial Crown. The popular papty, wished to gain the
urtity of Germany with the aid of ,the sword, the
Government wanted to maintain the old ‘ Bund”
by the same means. At such a .time every 7 in-
dividual pei son has only 7 the right but also the
duty to take sides according to his conscience. _ Freed
from the oath of military allegiance hy my dismissal,. I
resolved to take up arms for the people, escaped from the
fortress, went to the Palatinate, and pfferi d my services
to the Provisional Government. YVe were beaten, and we
lied to Switzerland. The law of “ Vae Y ictis ”is a hard
one, but it was acted upon, for many a brave man fell,
and many another had to eat the bread of exile. Then,
after 20 years, a change came suddenly upon the scene.
The standard, which we had been, forced to let fall, was
seized with powerful hands, and carried forwards to vie-
tory and to glory. Emperor and Cnancellor complete ihe
work which the Revolution had begun in v&in. (Md
dreams turned true, the dearest hopes of the German
people were realised. The empire arises, Germany 7 stands
united and mighty. There comes from afir off . across
the wide ocean, a weary old man—one of those exiles. He
wishes to lay a last tribute of veneration upon the aßar
•of the fatherland. As answer to his prayer for pardon he
receives—a warrant.
YY'otfe than that, in Ihe earnest days when Ihe sorrow
fer the head Emperor was at its highest; when hearts
beat in lovi. g anxiety for the living one; at a moment
■in which one might imagine that all heaits woqld ,)je
moved to clemency, an amnesty is given out in the name
of the royal sufferer in Charlottenburg, and from it are
excluded, stigmatised intentionally as guilty of high
treason, the martyrs of 1848 and 1849. Guilty of high
treason indeed! As if the defeated ones of Waghausel
and Rastadt had not fought just as much for the father-
land as the victors of Konniggratz ai d Sedan. As one cf
those martyrs, and as the one vein probably lost most of
all, I protest again»t such treatment. I appeal from the
persecution of the pressnt to the justice* of the future,
from the Prussian Government to the German people.
Toe wound is deep that they have given me. Rut my
solace is that it will heal quickly with the sympathy of
my fellow-citizens and in the light and freedom of my
Australian home, whither I return now doubly glad.
GUSTAV TECHOW.
Lausanne, 27th April, 1888.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Freetrader in his Agony.
A few days ago a gentleman signing himself
“Anti-Humbug” wrote to the S.M. Herald
about what he called “ the curse of Protection,’
and in the course of his observations quoted the
following items from the commercial report of the
same ponderous journal as showing the relative
prices of food in various colonies :
“Sydney flour, stone dressed, £8 to £0 10s. ; roller,
£8 15s. to £9 10s. Melbourne, stone dressed, £G 15s.
Adelaide wheat, 3s. 2d. to 3s. 2jd.; flour, roller, £7 I>3.
to £8; superfine, £7 ss. to £7 10s. ; household, C 6 to
£0 55.”
And close behind him followed a wild literary
sputter from Mr. Pulsford, of which the follow-
ing was the basis :
“The very lowest price at which good milling wheat
can be bought in Sydney is from 3s. 7d. to 3s. Sd. per
bushel; but in Melbourne, according to the Argus of
Saturday, the highest price was only 83. lid , and accord-
ing to the Age, only 33. 31 d. But really the merest ele-
mentary knowledge of commerce will tell any one that an
article is always dearer in the importing country than in
the exporting one.”
The childlike faith which we once placed in
Pulsford begins to waver after reading this state-
ment. For several years he has informed us that
Protection is bad because it makes food dear, and
now he states that it is simply awlul because in
Victoria it has made it cheap. We are unable to
understand this, and we also find a difficulty in
comprehending how the influence which makes
agricultural produce cheap should make manufac-
tured goods dear. Only a month ago the same
Pulsford raised the cry of a strong Freetrader in
his agony because Protection made the V ictorian
pay exorbitant rates for his boots and clothes, and
almost all his other necessaries, and we asked him
to be calm and not to weep. Now it appears that
Protection doesn’t invariably mean enhanced
prices, but that the ungodliness of the system is
equally proved by the things which it makes cheap
and in those which it makes dear. Pulsford weeps
with equal fei vour in either case. As regards food
he plaintively blows his noie over the imaginary
ruined farmer, and leaves the benefit to the
consumer entirely out of calculation ; as regards
manufactured goods, he wails and pipes his eye
over the equally imaginary oppression practised
on the consumer, and leaves the benefit to the
producer and his employees out of the question.
Finally, concerning New South Wales, he posi-
tively declines to weep at all, either over the
ruined farmer, who cannot find a market for his
produce because the protected goods of Victoria
are 20 per cent, cheaper than his; or over the
consumer, who must either boycott the New
South Wales farmer altogether and utterly extin-
guish the agricultural industry of the colony, cr
else pay exorbitant prices for local produce. Puls -
ford’s tears flow copiously from one eye while the
other is dry, and his lachrymo?eorb isalways turned
towards the Murray. And his trouble, to quote the
touching words of Mr. Pecksniff just before he
fell into the fire in Todgers’ boarding-house, “is
chronic.” It finds relief, however, now and then,
in the construction of an d iborate three-cornered
diagram showing how A sends goods which he
never possessed to B who is dead and consequently
can t pay for them, and how the debt is finally
liquidated by C who never lived at all, and the
goods are sc Id at a great loss by D who isn’t there,
and how they all make money out of the prc-
C3e dings. It is difficult to kick against diagrams
like this, and when Mr. Pulsford constructs an
unusually jagged one he generally carries convic-
tion into the souls of a nation which is tco tired to
tell whether he is a Freetrader or a circus,
The Fourth of July.
The Fourth of July has once more passed, and
Sydney has exploded a little less violently than
usual over the occasion. There was the usual
banquet at Botany, and there wa? the inevitable
Plain Bill Dalley, P.C , to propose the toast of
“The Day We Celebrate.” Mr. Dalley has evi
dently taken a lease of this toast, and he generally
makes use of the opportunity to exp’ain how
Americans are only Fnglishmen und r another
name, and that they reverence above all mortal
things the smile of our Gracious Queen, and long
with an intense longing for a chance to fight
for the hereditary institutions of beloved
Britain. But either Mr. Dalley was partially
choked off by the daily Press, or else he was
less effusively loyal than is his wont. He
alluded to America as a “ mighty empire,” but
then Dalley must allude to an empire twice a
day to keep him up ; and he quoted a remark
from that father of historical error, Froude, to
the efftet that “ a great nation makes great men ;
a small nation makes little men.” As every nation
must be small before it is great we presume from
this that it is the small men who build it up and
make it great, while the great men come along
when the work is done and whoop. The remark
is awfully rough on Moses and Solomon, Suan-
ihrbeg, William Tell, Leonidas, Solon,
Socrates, Wallace, Bruce, Washington,
Miranda, Bolivar, Toussaint LOuverture,
Alfred the G’cat, Columbus, Van Tromp,
William of Ora ge, Camoens, Mahomet,
Othman, and about IbO, 000 rnoie, but as it lifts
up John Haynes and the Emperor of China, both
of whom come from big nations, things are left
about square. Out of deference to his loyal con-
victions, Mr. Dallev made no pointed allusion to
the American War of Independence; the occasion
called for it, but then the wcoden-headed George
111. was licked on that occasion, and Plain Bill
preferred to sink the matter into oblivion, in
doing this he indirectly followed the example of
thd French Royalist historian who stated that
“ His Majesty Louis XVIII. delegated the go-
vernment of France to General Bonaparte, but,
being dissatisfied with his ad ministrati' n, he re-
sumed, in 1814, the direct control of his loving
subjects.” Mr. Dalley revenged himself, how-
ever, by talking of Lee and Grant and Appomat-
tox Court-house, which was rough, to say the
least. Then Consul Griffin arose, and heaved at
the heads of the audience the memories of La-
fayette and Valley Forge, and concluded with
this : —
When I think of the many blessings that this indomit-
al le r»ce hi s open to the world, I am forced to the cor -
elution that the day is not far distant when the various
branches of the English-speaking people will be brought
under one form of government, with the same code of
laws and free institutions, and when that day arrives it
will be a day of rejoicing tor the whole world, for then
armies will tie disbanded and all the nations of the earth
will dwell together in friendship and peace.
The allusion to “ one form of Government ” was
carefully left unexplained. Either the Consul
with the biut was smiting Dalley s monarchical
principles very hard and suggesting that the
Queen should be deposed, or else he was going in
for general high treason to the American Re-
public. He didn’t say which it was. Perhaps he
didn’t feel quite certain himself.
\ ♦ /
\ 1 lie Tory IMlenma.
In the British House of Commons, a few days
ago, John Morlev moved an amendment on the
Local Government Bill introduced by the Salis-
bury Administration. The amendment was a
minor one, and affected a matter of comparatively
small importance, but it was opposed by the Tory
party on general principles, and the question was
put to the vote with sensational results. For the
first time since that hist.ric occasion upon which
the Liberal party splintered over Gladstone s
Home Rule Bill, and the section since known as
the Liberal Unionist party went over to help
grind the Tory mill, the old Gladstonian following
was re united in its full strength, and the Tory
Cabinet was ignominiously defeated. The matter
is not one upon which Balfour and Co. will have
to resign, but it is significant enough to justify the
assertion that it is the beginning of the end. The
only ground upon which the Liberal Unionists
and the Conservatives could shake hands was that
of opposition to Irish Nationalism; when once
that quarrel was sunk the centuries-old antagonism
of the two parties had full swing, and the utter
feebleness of the Conservative body became mani-
fest. Upon purely English matters there is not
the slightest ground of agreement between the
loose association of Unionists who are led
by Hartington and Chamberlain —or rather
who shove these two gentlemen in front of
them—and the Hyperborean party which keeps
Primrose Day as a holy festival and worships the
memory of the dead Disraeli. Consequently,
ever since the ill-starred coalition was first an-
nounced all the resources of Tory diplomacy and
tact have been exerted to steer clear of debateable
questions, and, as the list of these included almost
everything under the sun except the necessity of
maintaining “order’ in Ireland, the programme
of possible legislation has been miserably small.
But Providence, it was generally hoped, would
interfere ere long by removing Gladstone to
another sphere, and his death was counted upon
as an event which would extinguish the Home
Rule party for at least another decade—possibly
for another century. Or, supposing the existence
of the Literal leader to be unreasonably prolonged,
it was a! ways possible that some great question of
foreign diplomacy or war might arise which would
eclipse the Irish problem and consolidate the Con-
servative following ; and so the Salisbury Govern-
ment staggered on and trusted to the chapter of
accidents. But Gladstone continued to live—
though for that matter it is hardly likely that his
death woidd have checked the National movement
even for a single instant: and the astute Parnell,
whose intellect is greater than the whole combined
brain of the Salisbury voting-machine, urged
that Irish politics should be shelved for the time,
and that the Horse should devote itself to Eng
lish legislation. The request seemed eminently
simple and reascnable, bup then English legisla-
tion of any kind was certain to break the Govern-
ment coalition a Hinder. An insignificant amend-
ment upon a clause of no particular importance
reduced the imaginary Tory majority to utter im-
potence, and, following close upon this disaster,
notice was given of a motion of censure based
on the inhuman administration of the Crimes
Act in Ireland. This resolution was de-
feated, but the result leaves the Salisbury
Government in as ’gnominious a position as before.
Even a Tory Cabinet cannot spend all its time in
not granting Home Rule; it must do something
for England as well as refuse to do anything for
Ireland, and the instant it attempts to carry out
any part of its hereditary policy in relation to
Great Britain its heterogeneous following is
resolved into its original elements, and all is
vanity and ruin. The whole duty of man, accord-
ing to the latter-day Conservative, is to hang on
somehow' till Gladstone dns, and it has now be-
come a serious question whether Conservatism or
Gladstone will die first.
The “ Glorious Toiirlh "—Again.
The Melbourne Herald, an evening journal
which, as it is unjustly suspected of being “ Irish, '
has, in view of prospective journalistic opposition,
lately become considerably attached to the
Queen’s royal person, broke out into a complex
little leader apropos of the glorious Fourth of
July. In one breath the Herald protested that
“ no man contemplating that awesome social or-
ganisation called the people of the United States
can fail to do so xrithout misgiving. In the old
world the ignorant and brutal are controlled.
They would strike, but know not how. In the
new world this is not so. At this moment, the
political yea and nay in the L-nited States is
Largely in the cntrol of masses of men—mostly
impoi ted—whose traditions, whose mental capa-
city whose instincts render them incapable of
comprehending the sublime spirit which shines
forth in every line of the Declaration of
Independence.” Alter thus mutely inviting its
readers to weep for this unhappy mob despotism
the Herald wanders right tff the track to remark,
“ It is hardly possible that Washington, Patrick
Henry, Jefferson, and other simple gentlemen
and Republicans ever conceived that within half
a century, cr little more, a class of aristocracy
would be created, flouting Republican thought
and aspira'ions, and becoming, by reason of its
wealth, a dominating power. ’ At this point is
appears to have dawned upon the Herald that
the article, being divided against itself, was in
danger of fa ling fiat unless propped up with a
moral that everybody could lay hold of : All
the same all honest and intelligent men, of
whatever nationality, may with clear conscience
and sincere enthusiasm drink a bumper to day in
honor and praise of the most marvellous social
and political construction the world has seen—the
United States of America.” The above are only
average samples of the balderdash called political
leader writing—which istobe found inalmost every
Australian daily paper. However, we must drink
the toast submitted to us. Here s a bumper to the
mar veil* us social construction which no man can
contemplate without misgiving! Also three
cheers for the masses of brutal men who control
the political yea and nay in America, and three
cheers more for the aristocracy which has become
a dominating power !
■*—
In the way of light but instructive literature it
would be difficult to improve on a small pamphlet,
lust issued bytlie N.S.W. Government printer,
e f.tl d “Index to Siiec v es delivered duung the
Second Session of the Thirteenth Parliament of
N.S. Wales.” On page 57, for instance, we find
that the Chairman of Committees has had occasion
to inform the House that it is disorderly to imply
that an hon. member is “a disgrace to humanity,'
or “a devil’s chicken,’ or “a .Chinaman,’
“ coward,” “ buffoon,” “ tool ” or ‘• thing : ” or 1 o
assert that he is “an old woman,” “ a Kreesradc
frog,’ “a body-snatcher,” “a swindler,” “low
ruffian,” a “political mosquito” or a “Judas.”
Biblical characters, no matter how vile, should te
treated with a certain amount of respect; and de-
praved and all as Judas was, he certainly never
degraded himself by posing as a politician. Mr.
Chairman has also been compelled to draw atten-
tion to the fact that it is “ improper ” to allude to
the Premier as “ a hoary-headed old politician,”
“ the missing link ;. ” to accuse him of “ uttering a
mischievous falsehood,” to describe the Govern-
ment as “ a lot of howling devils," or to “ threaten
to shy (sic) a book or a water-bottle at a mem-
ber’s head;” in fact, Mr. Chairman has gone
further, and ruled that it is “improper” to
“ hurl” oven such a harmless missile as “a charge”
against any Minister. Mr. Speaker has also en-
riched the world with a deal of useless information
during the past Session, for he has ruled that it is
not in order to call another hon. member “ a
criminal, ” “an impenetrable jackass, ” a chucker-
out, ’ “a liar,” and to heighten the offence
(bo rub it in, as it were) by adding that
“he knows it;" neither is it the correct thing
to call another hon. member “ an escaped monk
from Mudgee,” “a tool,” “a miserable reptile,”
“a calf,” “ the West Sydney Demosthenes,’’ o:
“ an excited bellicose, belching blatherskite.” Mr.
Speaker is also of opinion that it is highly im-
proper to “ damn the Chair,” to state that a
member of the Government has been “ drunk
for weeks ”or “ bad a finger in the pie.” On the
subject of the lie, Mr. Speaker is a greater
authority than Touchstone even ; for he ruled
that while Mr. Melville was out of orle: in
saying “ JMr. Abiuatl has stated a lie,” still it
would not be disorderly to declare that the state-
ment was “ inconsistent with fact.” To assert
that a remark made by another member was “a
d d lie ” was the height of impropriety, but it
would be perfectly allowable to observe that “ the
member’s remembrance is not in accordance
with truth.” This would be the “retort courte-
ous,” but the other would be the “retort M‘El-
- The. “retort modest” is to say
another member “ occasionally finds it difficult to
confine himself strict’y to actualities. ’ The “ re-
tort churlish” is to say he “cannot disiinguish
the false from the true, but has a bias to the
former,” and the “ retort jocose ” : : s to say he is
“a past-master in the pleasant art of realistic
romancing.” On the whole, therefore, the session
has not been utterly useless ; for it has been
the occasion of the publishing of a little work
which bids fair to rival the “ Art of Etiquette ’’ or
even'the “Slang Dictionary.”
“ At the Irish National League meeting, Parramatta,
the chairman referred with regret to the falling off in
Peter’s Pence at Parramatta, and expressed a hope that
the members of the League would not take revenge on the
Pope for the promulgation of his decree in reference to the
League by depriving him cf his just dues.”
The poor Pope will find shortly that one can’t
serve God and Cxsau— the cause of human liberty
on the one hand and the landlords on the other.
The Pope argues in his denunciation of the Plan of
Campaign that the breaking of a voluntary con-
tract cannot he jus ified. True, O Pope! But
the question is being begged by your contention. It
is true that a man needn’t rent land unless he likes;
for the matter of that he needn’t eat unless he like?,
When he, being hungry, promises to the bread-
monopolist all he has in the world in exchange for
a meal, can anyone blame him if, when his appe-
tite has been appeased, he refuses to carry out the
bargain he “voluntarily” made? It is the same
with land as with bread. “Your money or your
life,” says the landlord to the tenant. The Pope
and the progressive party are at issue on the bed-
rock ; one is disposed to allow that there may he
property in land; the other holds that private
property in land is robbery. But when we say
the progressive party, we d m’t necessarily mean
the Irish Nationalists, who seem inclined not to
move in the direction of nationalising, but in that
of cutting up the estates and instituting a system
of peasant landlords.
St. Joint His Chinaman How He Died.
They made him a saint, for he died
In the spring of his youth, and his pride.
In the year 'BB
When the Commons irate
To heave out the Chinkie had tried.
Ah Hung was his name, and a saint
He became by a martyrdom quaint,
With the name of St. John
And a halo to don,
A subject for artists to paint.
In the year ’BB, as you know,
The mob had a down on the Chow,
Whom they tried to expel,
But we’re sorry to tell
Ah Hung wasn’t willing to go.
But how did he die ? Well, tis truth—
The mob washed him clem, so, forsooth,
As he never had been
So infernally clean,
The shock killed him off in his youth.
Ah Hung gained amidst angels a placa
By the mob rashly cleansing his face,
But if this way would do
We think there’s a few
Who’d make saints of theyvhole of the race.
But this truth we would wish you derive,
There are people vte know who contrive
To prove from his ways
(For they find that it pays)
That each Chow is a saint while alive.
ZE[?]
A Melbourne fashion writer informs us
that the new tea gowns will have bell shaped
sleeves. There are, probably, tea-meeting gowns,
so constructed as to facilitate tlie wearer in
smuggling away all the tarts she can t eat.
The other day a Melbourne clergyman de-
clared that he was “recently shown by a publi-
can the interior of a beer-cask which had just been
emptied, and that a layer of salt was at one end
and cakes of the worst American tobacco were
nailed to the sides.” Mr, De Bavay, of the Vic-
toria Brewery, East Melbourne, marvelling much
at the confidential character of the relations be-
tween the saint and the son of Belial, offered to
pay £2O to Melbourne charities if his reverence,
could prove he had ever seen anything of the kind
in that city. And then the reverend gentleman
had to own up that the “ recent ” occurrence was
“ a matter of many years standing.” To this De
Bavay remarks ; “ Standiner is good. 1 here h,
however, another word which would be even
better.”


History of Botany Bay.
For a time the anti-transportation question
remained in abeyance. A larger question
absorbed -public interest, and kept the minds
of all parties abundantly occupied. The
movement towards Responsible Government
and a popular Constitution had been going
on all this time, but, as the issue became
more arid more certain, the popular will
greiv more vague and nebulous in its ex-
pression, and the public demands more
blurred and ill-defined. The absence of
capable and trustAvortliy leaders becanie
triore marked, as Wentworth’s Avork Avhich
promised so Avell broke off short like one of
those fractured columns, once part of a noble
pile, that hoav glitter vacuously and mean-
inglessly in the white light of-' an Eastern
sun.
* # •
When, 20 years before, Governor Brisbane
awoke from fiis contemplation of the stellar
system, to a knoAvledge of his immediate sur-
roundings, he saAV that the people required
to be protected from the rapacity of certain
among themselves. He srav that their evils
came, not from Doavii-
ing - street, but from
the people in imme-
diate authority in the
cdlony itself. On his
departure, as we have
seen, he took with
him a strong desire to
serve the future inte-
rests of the settlement
he had at first neglec-
ted, and a deputation of
colonists which waited
on him before he set
sail to express their re-
gret at fiis leaving, took
tfie opportunity in
the address they pre-
sented to state their
desire for taxation by
representation through
an elective Assembly of
100 members. This, the
first recorded request
for Parliamentary in-
stitutions, and the first
public meeting for the
purpose, took place on
21st October, 1825.
The deputation that
presented this address
consisted of Messrs.
D’Arcy and William
Charles Wentworth,
Thomas Raine, W. J.
Browne, and Daniel
Cooper. As far back
as 1812 the Select
Committee appointed
to enquire into the
affairs of the colony recommended that the
Governor should be assisted in his duties by
the advice of a Council. This Avas in Mac-
quarie’s time. That official knew too Avell,
as Brisbane and Bourke afterwards dis-
covered, that the class from which suph a
Council Avould be drawn —the official and
propertied element—had no sympathies in,
common Avith the settlement at large, and
that the colony rather asked and required
protection from these gentry than repre-
sentation through them. His own efforts
for the general advancement Avere frus-
trated by the men avlio Avould have been
called upon to form a Council had, it been
then established. The Macarthur element
would have proved a sorry protector and
director of the young commonwealth. He
opposed the recommendation, therefore, and
in doing so did wisely. When the approval
of the Secretary of State Avas refused he
wrote :—“I feel great satisfaction at the de-
termination of his Majesty’s Government
in not acceding to, the recommenda-
tion of the Select Committee of the
House of Commons in regard to, the
Governor of this colony being as-
sisted by a Council. I indulge a, fond
hope that this measure will never be
resorted to in this colony.” This Avas in
1813. Noav, the sincerity and purity of
Macquarie’s motives no honest man will
question. It is clear, therefore, that his
opinion of the people avlio “ were not con-
victs, but Avho should have been so,” was a
very strong one. It is abundantly clear now,
too, that the objections he foresaw, Avere
aftenvards borne out by facts.
* * *
Tpwards the end of Brisbane’s term, how-
ever, a Legislative Council Avas appointed to
advise the Governor. It first met on August
11, 1824. Purely a nominee and official
Council, it consisted of the Governor;
William SteAvart, Lieutenant-Governor ;
Francis Forbes, Chief Justice; Frederick
Goulburn, Colonial Secretary ; John Oxley,
Surveyor-General; James Bowman, Prin-
cipal Colonial Surgeon ; and last, but by
no means least, John Macarthur, of Camden,
by this time a territorial magnate and an in-
disputable lord of the soil. Thus the person.
Avhom history presents to us as the wiliest
enemy of the people and the most restless
opponent of every popular advance, Avas the
first man “ of the people ” chosen to advise a
Governor, one of whose predecessors he had
deposed for interfering with him and his
class, four of whom, according to his own
boast, he had induced the English Govern-
ment to recall, while each one had de-
nounced him as a turbulent colonist, a mer-
ciless opponent of good government, and an
oppressor of the people. The single-minded
devotion of this able man to one clear and
daiinlto end would, had that end been a good
one, have made him the father of his
country. As that end was a selfish one, his
evil methods and politically immoral means
did not prevent their issuing in the success-
ful aggrandisement of self.
♦ * *
The first Act of Parliament passed in
Australia Avas no weak-minded sentimental
abstraction, commemorative of the dawning
of the legislative function—that highest
exercise of the faculties of man —in a virgin
country. It Avas simply a measure to make
promissory notes and bills of exchange pay-
able in Spanish dollars available as if they
had been drawn payable in sterling coin of
the realm. This Avas on Septeniber 28, 1824.
Such a device would not be soon lost sight of
in a practical community ; Avhich may ac-
count for the fact that tile original spirit lias
riot quite died out yet.
* * o
Governor Darling appointed ri new Council
(in December 20, 1825. Besides Messrs.
Forbes and Gdulburn, it included Attorney-
General Saxe : Bannister ; Solicitdr-General
John Stephen, father of Sir Alfred Stephen ;
Sheriff Mackaness ; John Carter, Master-in -
Equity ; and D’Arcy Wentworth, Police
K°/
THE FIRST PARLIAMENT.—CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT AT LAST.
(From a rare old Print.)
Magistrate of Sydney. Archdeacon Scott,
Alexander Macleay, Robert Campbell,
senior, and Charles Throsby, were afterwards
added. Two years later than this, on
January 26, 1827, a public meeting, else-
where referred to in connection with the
agitation for the jury-right,, was held in
Sydney to. ask for representative rights. A
memorial, signed by 24 emigrant settlers and
emancipists, representing a million sterling,
asked Sheriff Mackaness to call a meeting to
petition the Home Government on tire two
subjects named. The meeting is said to
have been the largest field up to that time.
It Avas convened in the Court-house, and Mr.
Wentworth and Sir John Jamison proposed
and seconded a resolution, for the adoption
of the petition. A deputation consisting of the
Sheriff, Mr. Blaxland, and Mir. WentAvorth,
Availed on Governor Darling to request him
to fonvard it to the King. Copies were also
sent to Sir James Macintosh and to Sir
Thomas Brisbane for presentation to the
Commons and Lords. It Avas for tolerating
language “ offensive to Church and State”
at this meeting, that Sherifl; Mackaness ay as
suspended from office, as Ave have seen, by
Governor Darling. Next year, March, 1828,
a neAV Legislative Council Avas appointed,
consisting of the same members as the other,
Avith the. exception of Messrs. Carter, D’Arcy
Wentworth, Stephen, Saxe-Bannister, Mac-
kaness, and Goulburn, avlio had been suc-
ceeded by Alexander Macleay as Colonial
Secretary ; and with the addition of the
übiquitous John Macarthur. On July 13 of
the following year a Royal Charter arrived,
appointing ucav Executive and Legislative
Councils. The former consisted of Arch-
deacon Scott, the Colonial Secretary, and
the Commander of the Forces. The Legis-
lative Council included these officials, Avith
Francis Forbes, Chief Justice ; Alexander
Macduff Baxter, Attorney-General; Michael
Cully Cotton, Collector of Customs ; William
LithgOAv, Auditor-General ; John Macarthur,
Robert Campbell, Alexander Berry, Richard
Jones, John Blaxland, Captain P. P. King,
and Edward Charles Close—the Governor
presiding. In this Council the Civil Jury
Bill Avas passed. Archdeacon Broughton
succeeded Archdeacon Scott on his arrival
in September of the same year. This
Council sat through the period of Bourke
and Gipps, up to 1843. The first expression
of local popular opinion on the question of
the Civil List was given by Mr. John Blax-
land in 1834, avlio entered formal protests
against the amounts of the salaries of the
Colonial Secretary (£2OOO per annum), of
the Archdeacon (£2OOO per annum), and
of the resident at New Zealand (£6OO per
annum). Copies of these protests were sent
to the Secretary of State. In the same year
measures were passed fixing the recoverable
vat* of Interest at 8 per cent. ; legalising
marriages by Catholic and Presbyterian
ministers ; and appropriating reverted grants
hitherto held by the defunct Church and
School Corporation, to the expenses of
orphanages and to general education. Next
year, besides certain postage regulations and
the establishment of a Criminal Court at
Norfolk Island, a sum of £55,040 was voted
for the maintenance of the police and gaols
of the colony. This was an important step,
and was taken by command of the Home
Government, which devoted the surplus
land revenues of the colony after the
emigration vote had been deducted to
meet this outlay. It is a highly significant
fact that this measure—the first step towards
making the colonies self-supporting—was
only carried after a strenuous opposition by
the non-official members, by a majority of
seven to six. Only one non-official member
voted with the majority. Three years later,
on June 6, 1838, the proceedings of the
Council were thrown open to the Press and
public for the first time, and from this date
the business of the House Was regularly re-
ported in the newspapers.
k « *
But the Nominee Council was never in
harmony with the people, as, indeed, it was
never expected to be. As Macquarie fore-
saw, its sympathies were class sympathies
and its legislation was class legislation, except
when a masterful man like Bourke con-
trolled its actions and shamed or forced it
into incidental lapses of liberalism. As
our story has shown, every step of the kind
was bitterly and determinedly opposed. And
with each step gained the popular cause
grew stronger, and its outlook more hope-,
ful. On February, 9, 1830, another popular
meeting was held to. ask for the jury-right
and a Representative Legislature. Sheriff
M‘Quoid took the chair, and the resolutions
passed were transmitted to Sir James Mac-
intosh and the Marquis of Sligo for presen-
tation, Mr. Stuart Donaldson being asked to
act as agent for the colony. When the news
of the accession of William IV. arrived next
year Mr. Wentworth inserted that amend-
ment in the address quoted in reference to
the jury-right, asking for the general recog-
nition of colonial civil rights. On January,
26, 1833, a public meeting was again held
under the presidency of the Sheriff, at which
a petition was adopted, requesting a Repre-
sentative Assembly to consist of not less than
50 members, which should have the right of
imposing and appropriating its own taxes.
The petition was moved and seconded by
Messrs. Wentworth and Lawson, and unani-
mously carried. On tips occasion a paid re-
presentative for the colony was first pro-
posed, it being agreed to memorialise the
Governor for a grant of £lOOO per annum
for a Parliamentary agent, to be chosen
every three years by the landholders and
householders. Two years later the sum of
£l4OO was placed at the disposal of Mr.
Lytton Bulwer for this, purpose. At this
meeting, also, Messrs, Bulwer, Robinson,
and Joseph Hume were thanked for their
services to. the colony in the British Parlia-
ment.
• * »
Many indications showed about this time
that a favourable issue to the popular agita-
tion was at last within measureable distance.
THE FIRST SYDNEY POLICEMAN.
(From a very, very old Print.)
The basis on which the representative insti-
tutions asked for should be formulated now
became an anxious subject for discussion,
but it is humiliating to see how, up to the
very drafting of the present Constitution,
popular ignorance and vested interests split
up the all-important question. A meeting of
the Patriotic Association was held on Decem-
ber 8,1835, to discuss the form of legislature
and the electoral qualification. Two forms
were discussed, one being for two Houses—
Upper and Lower ; and the second for a
single elective Chamber of 50 members* 10
to be nominated by the Government. Sii
years later, in 1841, the Land and Emigra-
tion Commissioners published their first re-
port, and in September of that year a meet-
ing was held, under the presidency of the
high-minded Dr. Bland, to consider the
same.
• * *
was that the meeting decided
that the Legislature of the colony, as it
at that time existed, had not shown itself
‘ ‘ either capable or desirous of supplying the
wants or representing the feelings of the
colony.” A petition was thereupon adopted
praying the Queen to give the people a go-
vernment based on popular representation.
The movement was taken up in the country,
and petitions to the same effect generally
adopted. The agitation again gathered way.
Foiled by the influence of an unpatriotic and
selfish class within the colony so far, the
popular demand became more earnest and
more pressing as its temporary leaders—of
whom Dr. Bland deserves most honourable
mention —forced upon the people the con-
viction that the enemies of their cause were
the very persons whose misgovernment
called forth the present protest. This idea,
once taken up, was not allowed to sleep. Six
months after the last meeting another great
gathering was held to press on the request
for Representative Government. The meet-
ing was adjourned, in the midst of a stormy
debate, to a future day at the Sydney Col-
lege, where, on February 16, another peti-
tion was adopted, in which the following
facts were categorically set forth : —That the
colonists were free subjects, forming a popu-
lation of 130,000 ; that their property
amounted to £30,000,000 ; that the annual
increment was £2,500,000 ; that the mari-
time commerce for the years preceding
touched £22,500,000 ; that the annual
revenue raised was £350,000 ; that they had
spent £1,250,000 to relieve the British
Islands of 57,000 of their surplus population;
and that, meanwhile, the people had no con-
trol over taxation or their own public busi-
ness, no representation in Parliament, and
' almost none of those free institutions which
every Briton prized.
* * *
But while these proceedings were going on
in Sydney, the same subject was occupying
the attention of the Imperial Government,
and in July 29, 1842, the new Constitution
Act was passed by Lord Stanley, then Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, which intro-
duced the principle of elective representa-
tion into the legislature of New South
Wales. The Act was received in Sydney on
January 5, 1843. It constituted a new
Council to sit for five years, and consisting
of 36 members, of whom 24 were elective,
and 12 to be nominated by the Governor.
Six of these latter were to be official mem-
bers —the Colonial Secretary, Treasurer,
Auditor-General, Attorney - General, the
Commander of the Forces,, and the Collector
of Customs, constituting an irresponsible
Cabinet. The electoral qualification was a
£2OO freehold, or a £2O rental; that for a
member of Council was £2OOO or an income
from real estate of £lOO per annum. Steps
were promptly taken to form the Council,
and the election of two members for Sydney
was made by open voting on Hyde Park.
June 13, five members
being nominated. A
riot ensued, in which
life and property was
destroyed. Messrs.,
Wentworth and Bland
were elected, Messrs..
O’Connell, Cooper,
and Hustler being the
rejected candidates.
In July, Governor
Gipps was able to in -
form Lord Stanley that
the elections were com-
pleted and the House
formed. As nominee
members it included.,
besides the officials,
Messrs. R. Jones,
Blaxland, Hamilton,
Berry, Icely, and El-
win. The elected mem-
bers were Messrs.
Wentworth, Bland, H.
H. Macarthur, Bow-
man, D’Arcy Went-
worth, Lawson, Coo,-
per, Foster, Bradley,
Coghill, Murray, Sut-
ler, Lord, Dumaresq,
R. Windeyer, Macleay,
Panton, Therry ; and
for Port Phillip, Lang,
Thomson, Nicholson,
Walker, Ebden, and
Condell.
• * *
On August 1, 1843,
the House was inau-
gurated by Mr. Deas-
Thomson, Colonial
Secretary, and Mr.
Macleay, then in his
77th year, was elected Speaker by 17 votes
to 13 over Mr. Hamilton, a Crown nominee.
These numbers show the strength of the old
leaven in the new House by no means con-
clusively, as Mr. Macleay was himself an
old official of the Darling period. He was
succeeded by Sh Charles Nicholson as
Speaker on his resignation in 1846. The mea-
sures brought forward in the Council claim
attention. Of these Wentworth proposed
three. The fate of the first illustrate# a
feature.
(To be continued.)


G AT ARM
is an inflammation of the mucous
membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless cured will destroy every faculty and function
of its victim. Cataerhbanb is an infallible cure. Sold
by Washington Soul antt all chemists. Full particulars
Sundry Shows.
them being killed. Her Majesty’s is still afflicted
by a crush of people who love to see George
Rignold fall into the water and leave a damp trail
behind him when he comes out. The clever
and self-possessed little Miss Bessie Colville, as
Shakespeare Jarvis, makes what is practically her
first appearance on the stage, and is gaining confi-
dence every night. Messrs. Hiscocks and Friedman’s
speciality company, which includes the Federal
heathen and a lot of new attractions, take posses-
sion of the Academy next Saturday, and Brough
and Boucicault’s Criterion company still tread a
path of roses adorned with shekels, for “ Turned
Up” is prospering. The advertisement says that
it is “pre-eminent,” which reads like an old
“loyal ” gag with the tail-end cut off.
*♦ * *
A striking coolness has lately arisen be-
tween The Bulletin’s Adelaide representative
and the talented management of the Theatre
Royal, situate in that godly city. So far,
however, the noble soul in charge of the premises
has failed to explain the cause of this want of
sympathy, so it can only be conjectured that some
recent criticisms of the show have differed in
gome respects from the criticisms the management
would have written if it had been criticising its
own show. At all events, The Bulletin’s press
ticket has been suspended, which seems to suggest
that Mr. Wybert Reeve is hurt in his feelings.
We have never intentionally damaged his feelings
or insinuated that he had gone to seed in any
way——in fact we don’t remember having ever made
any allusion to him until now —which makes it
difficult to guess what makes him feel that way,
but possibly he may come round in course of time.
*# * #
The Sydney School of Arts Hall was tilled
by an appreciative audience on Saturday afternoon
when Mr. E. J. Welch, the well known explorer
(one of the two remaining survivors of Howitt’s
expedition) and journalist, exhibited a series of
some 200 most interesting views which will be
used to illustrate discourses on “ Australia, past
and present.” Mr. Welch is about departing to
America on a lecturing tour, and takes with him
Theatre Royal.—“ New Babylon p. 15.
Her Majesty’s.—" Lights o’ London
Criterion.—" Turned Up ”
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy.. ..
New Opera House.—" New Magdalen
Royal Standard.—" East Lynne ”....
Academy of Music.—Federal Minstrels ~
An old friend, and one who will never be
forgotten while Memory retains her present situa-
tion, re-appeared at Sydney Opera House last
Saturday. The announcement that Miss Ada
Ward was coming back created an unwonted stir
among the dust and bones in the cupboard of
human emotion, and when the audience had in-
dulged themselves in a long look and satisfied
themselves that their former favourite was as
pretty and graceful and as young as she was seven
years ago, they pounded the floor with both feet
and screamed. Miss Ward had the misfortune,
however, to make her bow as Mercy Merrick in
the "New Magdalen,” and the overfed persons
who form the upper streak of fat in Australian
society seem to have resolved that they are tired
of Wilkie Collins’ story. A few old and learned
fossils, who reach for each other’s hair on account
of ancient Greek roots, and who spend their days
in investigating the decayed stumps °f
foreign tongues, take an interest in it still, but tne
new generation wants to have a two-ton mur-
derer suspended over its drama by a single hair,
and when he isn’t there it goes away in disgust.
The " New Magdalen ” was written to prove that
tender woman should be encouraged along the
paths of life with something softer than a big
stick, and that when her gentle feelings are ap-
pealed to by a curate who eats and drinks a good
deal and whistles in the presence of the bishop,
the moral effect is eight hundred times better than
when she is shrieked at by a haggard woman in a
smashed black bonnet—but perhaps this sort ot
lesson is out of date. Besides, the circumstances
are constructed in defiance of all stage tradition.
The woman who repents behind the tootiignts
generally does it when she is frozen out, and the
spectacle of a pretty girl in a good position repent-
ing in a £25 frock cut bias, and bowing her stately
head beneath the reproaches of adusty screamerwho
has had to borrow some clothes before she could
come out, seems to upset the probabilities ot the
habitable globe. Miss Ada Ward s representa-
tion of Mercy Merrick brings down the sympathy
of the house upon that., harassed and violently-
shoved lady. The character is intended to be a
study of noble womanhood, as it is jumped upon by
the exigencies of modern society, and Miss Ward
is built to play such a part to perfection. Her
chief supporter, Mr. Arthur Lawrence, is a fine
example of a species of curate that never existed
—a curate without orthodoxy or snuffle, who can
bear up against the appalling handicap of a long
black coat and yet preserve the manly demeanour
which characterises a Zulu with next to nothing
on ; and his ability and fire, combined with Miss
Ward’s genius, considerably prop up some of
the other members of the company. Mrs.
Edwin Palmer, as Lady Janet Roy, is all
that can be desired, and behind these three
stalks blank chaos. Miss Kate Douglas is
needlessly ferocious, raspy, loud, and shrill ; she
plays in a tear-and-blazes fashion, and tries to
look like a housemaid come after a situation. Mr,
Stanmaur’s Horace Holmcroft is empty and
limp ; he seems to be a grief to himself, and when
he is not actually in motion he appears as it he
was only prevented by his clothes from falling
asunder. Also Mr. Edwin Palmer, who is in
many respects a success as the ancient German,
Ignatius Wetzel, finds his accent a cause 01 sorrow,
and his vowels and consonants get him down at
intervals and tramp on him. Altogether, Miss
Ward deserves about 700 times better luck than is
being served out to her at the Opera House.
#* # *
Tessero’s French Comedy Company struck
Sydney Gaiety last Saturday, and, in the course of
one evening, were filled to the top of the head with
new and strange experiences. All through the
painful go of a long, long show few people laughed
except by accident. The grief-stricken solemnity
of a funeral pervaded the audience, _ most ot
whom, not being equal to the intricacies of
conversational French, struggled vainly to keep
up with the play. The more advanced began
to feebly comprehend at a quarter to eleven
the joke that had been made at 25 minutes past
eight, but the majority were away back in the
middle of the week before last, and consequently
most of the fun missed fire. The misery was
aggravated, too, by the fact that 1 rench comedy
depends on dialogue, where the English article
fills up with wildly grotesque^curates. The thud of
the falling curate is the same in every language, but
this aid to understanding being left out, the 1 rench
comedy fell hideously flat. At the conclusion
everybody screamed with demoniac laughter, but
as it happened there was nothing particular in the
conclusion to scream at. The bill consisted of two
rather weak comedies, " L’Etincelle and La
Joie de la Maison,” and the company includes one
actor, M. Marsay, who could give points to almost
every male Australian now on the stage, barring
perhaps Titheradge. A comic gentleman, de-
scribed as M. Blanchet, also takes a high place,
and among the ladies Mdlle. Linange makes her-
self conspicuous as the brightest among a mode-
rately talented crowd. As a whole, the company
would pass in Paris as a respectable second-rate
assemblage, but as it has no very prominently
weak points it has an advantage over possibly halt
the companies now playing in the various Austra-
lian capitals. A good subscription-list should
carry it through, and the presence of Governor
and Lady Carington on the opening night lent
tone to the show. Whether His Excellency
understood all that was going on before him
could not be ascertained, for the solemn monotony
of his yawn opens alike to the just and the unjust,
but he looked a little less bored than usual when he
wearily gaped his way down stairs, and we re-
gard this as auguring favourably for his organ of
comprehension, A few Frenchmen who were pre-
sent, however, wore an intelligently pained ex-
pression, and it was evident that both the play
and the audience were preying on their minds.
** * *
“ New Babylon,” at Sydney Royal, will go
the way of old Babylon on Friday next, and
" Taken from Life ” will scream all through the
ensuing week. Then it will be taken in its turn,
and "Alone in London”'will be left to fill the
concluding week of Bland Holt’s season. In view
of the company’s early departure for other lati-
tudes we would point out that now is the time for
everybody to roll up and see how 800 characters
can be crowded into one drama without any of
A MINING SPECULATRIX:
MISS ALICE CORNWELL, THE “PRINCESS MIDAS.”
the good wishes of hundreds of friends, also
several thousand splendid views of Australian
scenery with which to enlighten the understanding
of the land of Bunker’s Hill.
** * *
Mr. Wyburd, of the Sydney Crystal
Palace Skating Rink, who is constantly devising
new ways to pamper the community, has just
added a novel feature to his show —a fountain in
the centre of the building, which sprays forth eau-
de cologne.
** * *
Mr. Charles Warner and the strong com
pany which supports him have been doing ex-
cellent business at Adelaide Royal. “ Dora and
“The Barrister ” were produced in one evening,
and in both Mr. Warner held up the heavy end
of the log of stage art. He follows in “ Lady of
Lyons,” “ Old Heads and Young Hearts, the
Road to Ruin,” “ Hamlet,” and other airy trifles
of greater or less importance.
*# * *
Major Dane, the cleverest of American
lecturers, holds forth at Sydney A.M.C.A. Hall
to-morrow (Friday) on the natural beauties of
semi-insolvent Maoriland.
** * *
Mr. W. H. Manning, theforerunner of Plain
Bill Holloway, and one of the numerous secrets of
that gentleman’s greatness, has left for Adelaide
to arrange for a short season of three weeks. The
company will open on 21st July, in “Romeo,
with Mr. Holloway’s lovely relative as Juliet, and
Mr. Inman as her lover. A six weeks’ season at
A Slight Mistake.— lt turns out the person charged
with personating a detective was innocent. At the tune
the constable arrested him he was busy in his garden
sprinkling his flowers. After some conversation, the con-
stable asked him his name, and the person thinking he
asked, “ What is the name of that?” meaning the liquid,
replied, “ Detective Soap.” Hence the arrest. The
prisoner was discharged. The S.M. remarked on the value
of Detective Soap, and said no doubt the insects and grubs
were arrested In tbsir ravages on tbs flowers.*
Melbourne Princess will follow, and then Miss
Jenyns, it is understood, will start for London in
real earnest. We have already, however, wasted
one or two tearful farewells on this favourite lady,
and we decline positively to be bathed in woe any
more until she is actually en route.
** * *
The Donaldson Brothers in the closing
days of Frank Clark’s show have taken to dis-
locating themselves in a manner which is awful to
contemplate. Their compound fractures and com-
plicated shatterings have been the mainstay of
the Academy company for several weeks, but
however well a distorted human being may draw
for a time, tke public are apt at last to get sick.
At a private stance a few days ago one of these
gentlemen dislocated one of his joints four times
and re-fixed it himself, and dragged his framework
into as many unearthly shapes as if he had fallen
from the tower of the Sydney Post Office and
been smashed and afterwards reported in the
evening press. We have no doubt that the
Donaldson Brothers are refined and agreeable
gentlemen in private life, but we don’t see how
they can be invited out much, unless they can
restrain themselves at the festive board and con-
trive not to scare the company by breaking five or
six of their bones and then healing up again sud-
denly as they do on the stage.
** * *
Most of the Melbourne theatres took a
fresh deal on Saturday night. At the Royal they
put up “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” a drama which ap-
pears (from the playbill) to have been recently
written for Carrie Swain, and converted into a
novel by Mrs. Beecher-Stowe about a quarter of a
century before Miss Carrie came to town. All the
strong points in this popular play were laid hold
of by Mrs. Stowe, but she forgot to mention that
L L. Smith’s bloodhounds went sniffing over the
ice after Eliza, and that Topsy turned her atten-
tion to variety business and went around singing
duets from “ Maritana ” with a slave-hunter’s
assistant.
* • *
While on this subject, too, we must pro-
, , , ... „tt 1 rr ■
test against the playbill describing Uncle iom s
Cabin” as “a pathetic drama, illustrative of
Slave Life, and vividly exemplified in Mrs.
8.-S.’s celebrated novel.” Things are the other
way round. At Melbourne Royal a real son of
Africa is walloped with an outward visible whip
while the blood-hounds from Collins-street are
tangible exemplifications of animal life. The mere
sight of those dawgs makes any young man not
feel well. Judging from its first night’s reception
by a crowded house, “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” has
got’em once again. Scenery, stage management,
and acting are mostly first-class. Mr, Hosea
Easton is a quietly effective Uncle, and Mr.
D’Orsay Ogden fills the boss villain’s part like an
artist. Several others deserve honourable men-
tion, and no reasonable praise is too much
to bestow on Carrie Swain’s warbling.
“Bachelors,” at the Bijou, is the same un-
substantial story of man’s predestinated idiocy
which recently filled Sydney maidens with pro-
found respect for Nature’s plan. The plot of
“ Bachelors, ” as may be remembered, is composed
of antique complications dragged slowly out to a
climax that everybody has seen coming for the last
two hours. Miss Lilian Gillmore, who made her
Australian debut as the widow Loseby, proved to
be a sweet young thing with fair hair and a grace-
ful turn of the head. She is good style and looks
as though she kept a pet canary and fed it with a
lump of sugar from between lips even sweeter than
the other saccharine matter. Miss Gillmore is
likely to become a big favourite in characters
requiring more gentle simplicity than the one she
now adorns. Messrs. Anson, Cecil Ward and the
trusty Titheradge do all that is jiossible for
“Bachelors,” other useful workers in this in-
offensive cause being Mr. Willie Warde and
piquante Fatbie Browne. For the third act Mr.
Spong has painted one of the prettiest backgrounds
ever seen in Melbourne.
** * *
Mias Amy Sherwin’s season at the Opera
House continues its checquered career. La
Sonnambula ” has been singing tolerably familiar
melodies to her cold bare feet these last few nights,
and on Saturday that uncomfortable young bride
was represented by a brand new prima donna —
Miss Dora Wiley. This lady is fair, plump, and
not too forte as regards voice, but she holds her
own with the stock tenor, Mr. Wilkie. For
Tuesday and Wednesday more “ Maritana,'’ and
Armes»Beaumont were promised, that time-
honoured combination [being always sure
of a respectable attendance. On Satur-
day “The Bohemian Girl” has another
resurrection for the same politic reason. All
this while they are turning away hard cash
from the Princess’s, where “ Monte Cristo, junr.,”
will make way for the other Gaiety burlesque on
Saturday week—public permitting. By the way,
the Gaiety ladies attended a ball last week, and
the whole ball spent the remainder of the evening
in gazing at them with its mouth wide open.
** * *
Melbourne Alexandra was the scene of
another ghastly atrocity on Saturday night, when
a woe-begone crowd, many of them dressed in any-
thing that came handy, tottered through something
described as a Highly Sensational Extravaganza.
With the exception of Mr. Lissant, and per-
haps one other, none of the show knew
what they were doing, or could have
done it if they had known, and the prevail-
ing misery was intensified by hideous noises
wrung from unwilling instruments of torture by
an orchestra that appeared to feel its position
keenly. The Alexandra company consists of 30
performers, most of whom are hereby earnestly
exhorted to sever their connection with the British
drama and turn their talents to cats’-meat on a
skewer. ’Tis a worthy trade not yet popularised
in this country. . . The Rickards-Coghill Bros,
enterprise shall be discussed anon. It made a
huge splash at St. George’s Hall on Saturday.
** * *
The National Dancing Championship of
the World was decided last week, at Bairnsdale
(Vic.). The contestants, two in number, shook
their legs in various styles, until one of them sank
from exhaustion at the critical point of a sailor’s
hornpipe. Then the other man was declared
Champion of the World, and Bairnsdale fell down
and worshipped him. Which his name is Munro.
** * *
The Jungfrau Kapelle has grasped the
situation in Brisbane, and completely cleaned out
the city by the alleged river. The jodel and the
zither and the harp and the other thing with the
long name have since been packed up and are on
their way North.
* '« * *
The Lynch Bellringers have been trot-
ting along the old familiar wheeze, and this
time it crops up in Queensland. Not long ago
the troupe, it is said, was performing in Too-
woomba. Among the audience was an aged
couple of at least 70 years apiece, who had walked
some eight miles into the township to hear the
bells. The programme went along all right until
the ringers came forward in front of their table to
“Ring the Changes,” when the audience was
astonished to see the poor old man and his wife,
stand up with mouth and ears wide open, trying
to absorb every sound which came forth. The
ringing ceased, and the Lynches were bowing their
acknowledgements, when the old lady, with tears
in her eyes, burst out with “Flay it again ; oh, do
play it again ! we may never, as long as we live,
hear them again. Oh !do play them again the
old man, at the same time, sputtering out, “We
have walked a long distance to hear them; do
oblige us.” ’Tis ever thus : the Lynches were
palming this off as genuine when we were in long
clothes.
** * *
He was a German musician, and was
known in the orchestra as a strictly conscientious
man who always did his duty even under the
most adverse circumstances. He followed the
score with imperturbable fidelity, and was
never betrayed into any undue enthusiasm.
Also his instrument was the trombone.
These three or four circumstances require
to be kept in view in order that the catas-
trophe which followed may be fully appreciated.
At a performance one day, the trombone suddenly
shot out a blare that caused the leader to lift his
hands in horror, and glance about to see what had
happened. The players all stopped, and the
offender, glaring at the score before him, ex-
claimed, “ Dot vas ein mashed fly, bot I blayed
him,” and he held the sheet up, revealing a note
that proved to be the crushed remains of the
insect in question. The management held a
meeting that night to consider the circumstance,
but on the trombone entering into his own recog-
nisances not to play mashed flies, trodden-on
cockroaches, or other zoological remains in future,
he was permitted to retain his position.
Bamum’s Menagerie visits the Australian
.
' ‘
. ... .
A Brisbane paper bitterly suggests that
gome legal enactment should be passed to prevent
managers putting on pieces with 17 scenes and 75
characters, when they have only two actors and a
CO rd of firewood with which to run the entire
show. We aren’t so sure about this ourselves. If
we were only dead certain that they had the two
actors and the firewood we should let them go
ahead. Irate manager What the d —-I were
you doing yesterday, sir, with my wife in your
arms?” Unabashed jeune premier : “Hang it
all, man, wasn’t I engaged to support the leading
lady?” Minnie Palmer intends starting next year
on a journey which will include Japan, China,
Australia, India, Arabia, Egypt, Turkey, Italy,
Switzerland, France, and Britain. What is the
matter with Ashantee, anyhow ? An American
newspaper savage wrote lately that when
Columbus discovered America Emily Soldene was
playing there, and sent him a free pass for her
performances. This was generally supposed to be
a hint about the Soldene’s age, but that lady
calmly wrote back to say that it was all wrong, as
Columbus was too young to come out at night
when she started in burlesque. A few weeks ago
a grand combination circus started from Brisbane
to petrify the remote Queenslanders, and last
week a double-jointed horse, the surviving tatter
of the aggregation, gob back to the capital,
Ellen Terry is the only actress of fame who does
not insist on telling, through public advertise-
ments, what make of powder she prefers and
whose perfume goes on her pocket-handkerchief.
Neither does she lend her face to the soapmaker
or the tobacconist, nor her characteristic auto
graph to anybody’s balm or lotion. Mrs. W. R.
Rignold, mother of George Rignold, died lately in
London. She made her last appearance some 2->
years ago at the Dublin Royal. Mr. Leslie and
Miss Nellie Farren, of the London Comedy Com
pany, get each £lOO a week when acting and £6O
when not. They drew £6O a week from the day
they left England.


Use yonr Intelligence,
lonli for the Name.
Accept
No other
Than WOMB'S SCHNAPPS.
It is the best I>rink, bar
NONE.
Tested by Chemists.
Has never been Equalled.
WOLFE’S AROMATIC SCHNAPP’S the
Original tiennine Article.
Recommended by Physicians,
largest Sale of any Spirit.
Prink Nothing Else.
Pepper
And
Salt
(BY CABLE)
First Innings.
Australians... ... ... 1,000,000
The World 3
Second Innings.
Australians 5,000,000
The World 0
Total.
Australians (>,000,000
The World 3.
Cricket; A Popular Handbook of the Game. By W.
G. Grace and others. London. Religious Tract Society.
«
Now that the winter is half over, the
N.S.W. Minister for Education has decided to
allow the consumption of State firewood in public
schools. In the “land o’ cakes,” where Mr.
Inglis was reared, the “ingle neuk” is a favourite
spot in the “ cauld days o’ winter,” but the tiger-
hunting tea-dealer, basking here in the sun of
prosperity, cares little if country school hearths
are cold and cheerless, while the brains of the
blue-nosed students, whose clothing is scanty and
thin, and whose blood is not thickened by the
gen< rous living that falls to the lot of members of
the Ministry, are fairly frozen in their skulls :—
In Scotland, “ bairns,” to warm their feet,
Around the “ingles ” gather ;
Our Inglis here throws out no heat—
He’s warm himself tho’ ? Rattier !
Touching a syndicate’s proposal to buy the
Melbourne Cathedral site and devote it to secular-
purposes, the Dean of Melbourne has given his
“ views ” to a reporter.—
“ I felt that we had no right to reject such an oppor-
tunity of placing the Cathedral and all belonging to it on
an independent footing, and of relieving the Church from
the want of funds which cripples her exertions in all
directions. 1 felt, indeed, that it was a Providential offer
that we were not at liberty to dec’ine.”
AUSTRALIAN ELEVEX E. THE WORLD
Most noble game of cricket, we adore thee !
When statecraft bores and doubts and doctrines
sadden,
'We throw our waistcoats off and bow before thee !
Thy leather ball, enamelled bat, and three
stumps gladden
Our wearied spirits, and we shout with rapture
At the bare fancy of a “ clever capture.”
We fling our scorn on those who say the cable
(iives too much “ Cricket ” and makes too slight
mention
Of Ireland’s sorrows and the world’s unstable
Blood-spattered social system, whose invention
The well-to-do are proud of, but the needy
Curse roundly as the helpmeet of the greedy.
Away with these things ! Tell us of the glory
Our “ boys ” are reaping in their high ambition!
Is Bonnor out ? Give details of the story
Of Bannerman’s achievements and Trott’s mis-
sion ;
Charge highest cable-rates, but do it quickly,
Eor this suspense is making us feel sickly !
Pause, if you like, when long-haired poet calls on
The toilers of a land to rise to duty ;
Pause, when the thin-faced agitator falls on
The cant and humbug of the knaves who booty
Pursue, while setting up the specious notion
That they are working from high-souled devotion!
What ruler of the -world of mind was equal
To Doctor Grace ? At nine years old, in flannel,
He carried out his bat, while the proud sequel
x Of what he did at twelve stands as an annal
Of startling hitting, and in five years later
He struck the world as earth’s supreme dictator !
He tells it all himself. Just read his story ;*
For three-and-twenty years his average hitting
Was forty-live an innings. Place the glory
Of Kendall near this sum, and, wisely sitting
Out of the draught, essay a computation !
Now, which gave greater lustre to his nation ?
Give over grudging us these ample cables—
We want them. We are patriots, and greedy
To have Australia sit at first-class tables.
We do not want the dusty, drabbled, seedy
Record of mental work. Why, hang your poet,
He’s in his country’s road, but doesn’t know it!
E. LOWE.
THE MELBOURNE CADET TO HIS
MOTHER.
JULY 1ST, 1888.
O 1 dost thou hear the rolling drum—
The merry bugle’s blast ?
The Russians, mother dear, have come,
Have really come at last;
And we, a little valiant band,
When warlike tempests roar,
Go forth to shed, on sea and land,
Our patriotic gore.
When both the cables came to grief,
Without a moment’s pause
Great Lorimsr, our merchant chief,
Divined the hidden cause ;
He’s up to every Russian move,
He knew the Bear was near :
Bold Lorimer, as time will prove,
Knows everything—but fear.
His cunning plans have long been laid,
His scheme is quite complete,
For oft in solitude he’s played
At calling out the Fleet,
And sending armies to the front
Upon the foe to fall-
Why, Moltke isn't in the hunt
, With Lorimer, at all.
And now has come the fatal hour
When Russia’s haughty Czar
Shall learn at last Victoria’s power—
The sort of men we are.
Fair Melbourne's citizens may sleep
In safety in their beds,
While, at the forts and on the deep,
H°r heroes guard the Heads.
I think I’ll say my prayers again
And liquor up once more—
Then hurry off by special train
To guard my native shore.
And if you lose your hope and pride,
The soldier boy you love—
Put on his tombstone, “ Tommy died
I 1 or Country, Queen, and Gov.”
0 ! mother, dry the scalding tear
And look up bravely— so ;
Thou knowest that we volunteers
Are meant to fight the foe.
It ill becomes a hero's ma
To carry on like this —
1 hear the trumpet’s call—ta-ta !
My toys I leave to Sis.
Yes, gentle Dean, your views are right,
Though some may think ’em odd—
That Syndicate, who’d buy the site,
Are messengers from God ;
The Loard has raised the price of land
(’Tis well to be precise)
That you might get some cash in hand
By selling at a price.
The Temple funds were shocking tight,
Your hearts were full of gloom,
He took compassion on your plight,
And sent a blessed “ boom.”
SCRIPTURE V. LEGISLATION.
GOOD MAN: “Do you know, my lad, what the Scripture sayeth about the sparrow
that falleth to the ground?”
BAD BOY: “No, I don’t know what no Scripture sayeth, but I do know that the
South Australian Parliament sayeth that they will give prizes to boys as
killeth the most sparrows.”
The earth is His, so parsons say,
But as you’d bought a slice,
God helped you in a business way
By working up the price.
O ! Dean, we know a drunken sot,
A mean and filthy hound,
Who also bought a little plot—
A plot of city ground ;
And to that chap of evil fame,
That paragon of vice,
A Providential offer came—
He sold it at a price.
Yet surely Heaven never meant
To bless that sinner vile;
This boom in real estate was sent
That you might make a pile ;
To somewhere else your Temple might
Be carted in a trice —
So if they want to buy the site,
Just sell it at a price.
In these days of perennial war-scares one
of the chief amusements of the ponderous daily
journalist consists in figuring up the armies of
Europe, and calculating who will be licked on the
day when horses’ remains and big guns are mixed
together on the crimson battle-field. Just here
we would offer a small bet that Austria will come
off best, no matter who goes under in the fight.
If the Emperor Fraccis Joseph marches in the
van of the Austrian army and breathes in the face
of the advancing foe, they will retire in a heap.
Armed men can be hired at tuppence a week to
rush on to batteries and bayonets, but to en-
counter the open mouth of the Kaiser is more than
any troops not reared solely on onions are likely
to care for.
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visiters.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, doss to ccs
1 iiths. Horses and buggies for hire.
The Brickbat.
Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Caring ton.\
Last week the surviving members of the
historic N.S.W. Soudan Contingent were sum-
moned together to feed in memory of their return
from the gory fields of Africa, and about 100
warriors put in an appearanc *. Three years ago
this gallant band mustered 600 strong to go forth
and “ stoush ” the Arab in his lair, and a cry
went forth along the upper waters of the Nile that
a circus and a performing bear were coming.
Then followed alarms and excursions and weary
mai’ches over the sandy wastes of the Dark Con-
tinent, and midnight encampments, where the
gritty troops of Australia slept in the dust with
their arms in their hands and strange fl ies walking
over each speaking countenance, and long, dreary
periods of violent sitting down, and raids upon
ruined cities where the Africm “gohanner ” clings
to the wreckage of Ethiopian greatness—and at
last the goal was reached. On one ever-memorable
day the army of New South Wales arrived at
nowhere in particular and didn’t do anything;
the stars shone down on their battle array, a single
slow moving Arab cripple tottered on the distant
hills, and, barring him, nobody was about. Next
morning the military host got safely away before
anybody came along, and amid unspeakable enthu-
siasm they re-embarktd for the land of their
fathers. It was their last achievement, and we
weep as we recollect that many of these gallant
men will never again rush upon the cannon’s mouth.
Some of them caught cold and sneezed themselves
backwards over precipices; some were removed in
an insensible condition under thepetrif y ing influence
of doubtful liquors; a few came back and got
into trouble in the Divorce Court; one or two
recline on the cold breast of the lunatic asylum ;
and one —the bravest of them all —sold us six eggs
last week, and four of them were had. Their
country treated them with ingratitude, and they
got wet. But their memory still survives, and
their names will he borne in reverence long after
the last Soudan medal has gone up the spout and
the tombstone of the last Soudanese hero has
become cracked and lop-sided through being leant
against by hogs. Their banners are mouldering
somewhere or other—-nobody seems to be quite
sure where; the goat which they brought back
with them is deceased, for the donkey kicked it
and stove it in—a tragic occurrence which was
basely smothered by the servile minions of the
daily Press; but the ass which they fetched
from a far-off land still remains in good
health at the Sydney Zoo, and he promises
to live as a joyous memory through
many succeeding ages. An ass never dies—at
least no living man ever saw a dead one ; he
watches through the revolving centuries the rise
and fall of empires ; he gazes amid the hair which
hangs down over his eyes at the crumbling ruins
of dynasties, and he hee-haws over the dust of i he
beautiful an I the great. And then, when his
time comes, he evaporates and leaves a blank
where there used to be a mule. Consequently, we
rise on this memorable anniversary to propose
the health of the moke from Africa, an animal
which was selected by an inscrutable Providence
to whisk his tail in the realm of history and to
leave the mark of his back hoof on the poetic
legends of this great continent. It is the fittest
which suivives—and the Soudanese donkey will
hold out and have a good appetite for the carrot
which, half-a-century hence, will spring from the
dust of the Cornstalk warriors.
• • •
Down in the neighbourhood of Barraya
(Vie.) a short, ordinary-looking count, whose card
states that he owns a palace in Rome, is just now
selling works of hearse-art at 3s. a piece. From this
depression in the count’s circumstances we pre-
sume that times are bad for noblemen in Italy,
and that the roof is off the Roman palace. Even
when the roof is on, however, the ivied tower of
the descendant of a long line of Latin swells is not
quite so large or so magnificent as its name might
lead a stranger to imagine. In most cases it is
situa f ed up six flights of stairs, and one building
in a dismal back street can easily accommodate as
many as 16 noblemen, each with an ancient pedi-
gree and a family seat of his own. The Roman
peer who wakes and sits up with a mighty yawn
in the mouldering halls of his ancestors has to
dodge carefully lest he should hit the uttermost
boundaries of his dominions with his head, and
the ruins of his inherited pomp are kept in the
same cupboard with the butter. But he is a lofty
mortal all the same, and it isn’t often that he
comes out to a broken-down, plebeian land to sell
yellow chromos at a small sum each. When he
does, the chromos are generally villainous works of
smudge, but out of brotherly sympathy for the
scions of a fallen race we urge the Australian
“ cocky ” to speculate in one and put it in the
ash-heap when the count is gone. It isn’t good
enough to keep, for when the rising generation
learns that the garish improbability hanging on
the wall was passed on to their * ‘ paw ” by a
foreign peer it lends to foment international
hatreds and perennial feuds, and on a rough cal-
culation we are convinced that six Italian
chromos, scattered judiciously through this Con-
tinent, would one day lead to the sack of Rome by
an Australian army; but if it is stamped firmly
into the ash-heap, and a load of mud deposited on
top of it, and the place is watched by six men for
a day or two, to make sure that it doesn’t rise to
the surface aga : n, and the owner is kept on low
diet for a month and avoids excitement, and the
count who sold him this painted assault and bat-
tery upon the canons of art gets away a good dis-
tance at once, the transaction isn’t likely to do
anyone any harm. In fact, we may state that we
have been personally acquainted with a foreign
count who, by a strict adherence to the precau-
tionary measures suggested above, sold two oil-
paintings in one year, and, though he wasn't paid
for either of them, h« got away alive after being
chased 38 miles. It will thus be seen that the oc-
cupation is not so fatal as is generally supposed,
and the fate of the ancient Roman generation
which traded off a lithograph on Alaric to its own
utter undoing is not to be regarded as a reliable
precedent. The modern Italian can get away
faster than his Latin ancestor for one thing, and
he doesn’t wait so long before he starts for
another, and, taking all these things into con-
sideration, we believe that the count who is now
pursuing his avocations in Victoria may yet get a
chance to walk back to the land of his fathers. As
he tramps across Asia on his return journey, we
would urge him to drop the rest of his
chromos in one of the ancient cities of that vener-
able continent, and we would point to Damascus
as a place which is likely to stand them as well as
any other ; the people there are an ignorant lot,
and before they could fully comprehend the nature
of the thing that had been left in their midst the
count might have got as far as the shores of the
Black Sea. In mapping out this route for his
return journey we follow as far as possible the
line of the retreat of the 10,000 book-canvassers in
ancient times. We trust, in conclusion, that the
count did not leave the gas burning in his place
when he came away. If he did he had better
settle down in Australia for life; the man who
would voluntarily go back to tackle a Roman gas
company in its lair is denser even than t hat Latin
emperor who was taken through Britain in a
perambulator because he had a sore toe and
couldn’t walk.
* * •
Long ago in the golden days of childhood,
when we were free from co reeling care and filled
with innocent mirthfulness, it was once our proud
privilege to sc rid an insurance-agent, and the
affrighted yelp of an astounded public nuisance
was heard over the best part of three parishes.
We commend this as a good and suitable method
to permanently discourage the travelling agent,
but there are other systems which are also worthy
of serious consideration. Last week a sen of
Shimei —may he have eighteen corns !--roused up
a peaceful town of S. Australia, and appealed
to the inhabitants to get the bulge on Prov.dence
by taking out a policy in the Busted Labourers’
Providential Association, which had so large a
reserve fund that several people had died on
hearing the amount, and the manager and
board of directors were in a precarious
state through not knowing what to do with
the money ; and he pointed out eloquently
that the conditions were so liberal that if every-
body insured at once and then perished imme-
diately afterwards, life being a precarious institu-
tion, and one being taken and the other left, as
shown by the fate of a number of persons who had
been here to-day and gone afterwards, and others
having measles which were liable to strike in-
wards at any moment, also on account of the
devil going about like a roaring lion and other
animals. A number of residents were over-
come by this very coherent and intelligible, not
to say forcible view of the case, and took out
policies for small amounts, but still business
was not prosperous, and the agent, there-
fore, fastened upon a wealthy inhabitant and
swore to insure him, or die with his prospectus in
his hand, and explaining with his last breath that
the Busted Labourers’ Providential Association
charged lower rates than any other office. For
five awful weeks he adhered to his baleful pur-
pose, and then the victim gave in and signed a
proposal for £3OOO, and gave the names of two in-
fluential gentlemen who were willing to tell all
they knew about his physical condition and more
if necessary. They did it, too. Both of them
had been instructed in advance, and when they
received an elaborate paper to fill up in a way
that was ruinous to common sense they concurred
in stating that the applicant was drunk all the
time, and that there wasn’t a square foot of ground
wi thin three miles that he hadn’t had a fit upon, and
that when he wasn’t having fits he had consump-
tion and insanity. Also they testified that he
was of immoral habits and had three wives, all of
whom were kleptomaniacs ; and that he had been
frequently in gaol for swallowing live kittens in
sherry and b'tters, and that he had hanged him-
eelf twice without effect, and had broken all his
teeth eating the hind wheel off a buggy for a
small wager. Further that he often shut up his
place of business and went out to break cheeses
with his head in the public thoroughfares—but
the proposal was declined before they could get
any further, and the agent of the Busted
Labourers’ Association was fired out for attempt-
ing to run dangerous cripples into the company by
underhand means complicated with perju>y.


••I have found Mr. W. P. Gaunt’s Phosphorised Iron
Ouinine Tonic superior to any others I have used. It is
an excellent nervine.—Yours, Nellie Palmer. 1 repared
onlv bv W, F. GAUNT, The Pharmacy, Oamperdown.
Obtainable from all Chemists, Take no substitute.
Personal Items.
Gladstone has recently learned to play
the violin.
“Stockwhip” Kelly has squared one of
his libel-actions.
Bishop Kennion, of Adelaide, denies that
ie has been left £lO,OOO.
Ex Speaker Lalor isn’t suffering from
diabetes. It's only debates.
Not one of tlje Battenbergs was allowed
to be present at the recent Royal wedding at
Berlin.
Parves’ very latest “ The clergy are
divided into two classes, the generic names of
which are ‘ Brimstone ’ and ‘ Treacle ’ ”
It is now asserted that Henry Battenberg
and his mother-in-law don’t get along very well.
Bat. says nasty things aboot Scoatland.
The ex-Queen Isabella of Spain, who lives
in Paris, has an income of £300,000 a year, but,
for all that, she is constantly heavily in debt.
.John Dunn, the Zulu semi-savage, has
just published his “Impressions,” Among other
things he says that Lord Chelmsford was a gentle-
man but no general.
When Queen Victoria arrived at Balmoral
at the end of April last her first visit was to
Crathie Churchyard, to place some flowers on the
grave of the late John Brown.
The N.S.W. Full Court have again upset
Chief Justice Darley’s decision—this time in a
very important case in which James Tyson, the
wealthy squatter, is one of the parties.
Mr. William Westgarth, a Victorian colo-
nist of the golden era, but who has been resident
in London for the last thirty years, is returning
for good to Melbourne almost immediately.
One of the most characteristic recorded
sayings of Mr. Matthew Arnold was a compliment
he paid his wife before marriage. “She
my sweetness,” he said, “and none of my airs.
London Daily Chronicle in a leading
article on the Chinese question speaks of Premier
Parkes as “Sir Harry Parkes.” Such is fame;
They have never heard of HIM in all their lives.
Chief Secretary Deakin has improved in
health, but is still in such a weak and nervous
condition that the doctor orders him not to make
speeches. It’s a good while since Alfred was too
nervous to spout in public.
Mr. Pinkstone, Major of Oootamundra,
N.S. Wales, was a few years ago one of the most
enthusiastic Orangemen in his district, but he
succumbed to the eloquence of the Redmonds and
adopted strong Home Rule views.
Mr. C. E, Jones—Mint Sauce” Jones—
now acts as private secretary to Mr. Thomas
Bent, leader of the Victorian Opposition. The
interests of Bent and Fink in real property can
now be counted almost by millions.
Having disposed of the Apostles Creed, the
Melbourne Herald’s “ clergyman ” has taken to
reforming the game of football. Well, a parson
who has been compelled to seek refuge on the
’Erald staff, must naturally have been more ac-
customed to kicks than ha’pence.
Mrs. Emmeline Parker, widow of Sir
Henry Watson Parker, who in 1856 was, for 11
months, Colonial Secretary of N.S. Wales, died
recently at Richmond, Surrey, England. She was
a native of N.S. Wales, being the youngest child
of John Macarthur, of Camden Park.
On Thursday last Mr. Justice Foster said,
in Sydney Supreme Court“ This is a matter in
which common sense must be used, and a jury
are, therefore, more competent to deal with it
than lawyers would be.” And then every limb
of the law present arched his back and began to
spit fire.
The skull of the operatic composer Doni-
zetti is actually advertised as on show at the
Bologna Exhibition. This skull has had an
extraordinary experience- Purchased for three-
pence by a pork-butcher at a sale of the effects of
Donizetti’s doctor, it was need for some time by
the tradesman as a money-bowl.
The Prince of Wales has refused to allow
a Bristol man to erect a statue of his eldest son,
our old and gawky friend Albert Victor. Apropos,
it is quite a pity that this youth was not christened
Edward, for it is plain that his ultimate destiny
is to be known in history as Neddy the Firsb, the
reductio ad ahsurdum of the monarchical system.
Lady Moleswbrth, one of the ancients of
London and county society, recently tottered off
this planet. She was a dowager who told naughty
little tales and washed herself in oatmeal gruel.
The royal “ Tummy ” frequently visited the
venerable Molesworth with his friends, but the
Princess was disposed to regard her as a horrid
old creature.
Dr. Rose, M.L.A. for North Melbourne,
having disposed of his divorce business, is at pre-
sent engaged in floating a company to purchase
the Grampian quarries. The hon. gentleman has
played a good many parts in his time local
preacher, tempeiance orator, schoolmaster, doctor,
Member of Parliament, co-respondent, respondent,
and now promoter of joint stock companies.
The Empress Augusta of Germany is now
a hopeless wreck. Until a few years ago she
could sit upright in a chair which was so con-
structed that it could be carried with poles,
wheeled along the floor, or raised by a lift. Now
she is obliged to recline at full length, and is
carried about in that position. In this way she
was taken to see the wedding of her grandson,
Prince Henry, the other day.
“It is now stated,"said London Referee of
21st May, “ on what appears to be good authority,
that the disease from which the German EmpCTor
is suffering is consumption of the throat. -For
some reason or other there has all along been a
mystery as to the nature of the malady, though,
unfortunately, there has never been any my stery
as to the ultimate result which the specialists,
home and foreign, anticipate.
A pretty good story is told of Mr. F. H.
Cowen, the Musical Director of the Centennial
Exhibition. Shortly after his arrival in Mel-
bourne, ha was being shown round by Mr. Lava-
ter, the Exhibition secretary, and meeting Hav.d
Lee, the city organist, in Gollms-street, the trio
adjourned to Phair’s for a glass of wine. Presently
entered a certain well-known amateur musician,
who, with all the frankness engendered by whisky
and friendship, immediately tackled Lavater,
taking no heed of the stranger- Why didn y
engage my friend David, here, for the Exhibishun,
stead of that d d Jamaica Jew, Cowen ? Why
didn’ye, eh? (Hie)" Tableau!
The years clutch all alike, and Queen
Victoria has fallen into the habit of taking little
“cat-naps” in her chair, even when visitors are
present. At such times the royal lady goes
through the same routine followed by the most
humble of her subjects. Her head falls a little
forward, swaying slightly from side to side;
then she sits bo t upright, opens her eyes very
wide, and assumes an appearance of great in-
telligence and alertness.
Lorimer, Minister of War, and
Phil. Robinson, war correspondent, have come into
personal collision. During the recent war scare
in Melbourne, Robinson, who has been devoting
himself of late to mining ventures not wholly un-
connected with the Midas claim, “addressed the
Minister in the usual official form, requesting his
permit to proceed to the front as a war corres-
pondent, and asking for his orders as to the issue
of rations and the arrangements for transport.”
To this application the Lorimer returned a polite
negative, and Robinson gets even with him by
stating that “Sir James Lorimer is really in the
same position in regard to the press as the Eng-
lish Government was before the Crimean war.”
This correspondence, which has been published in
the Age, is, of course, a capital advertisement for
Mr. Phil. Robinson.
Many Australian papers have published
articles concerning the notorious Benson, but we
have nowhere seen reference made to one episode
in his remarkable career, the scene of which was
laid in the Isle of Wight. “Nowhere will the
death of Harry Benson excite greater interest
than in the pretty little town of Shanklin. Some-
where between 1873 and 1874 a very distinguished-
looking man took one of the many bijou villas
with which the town abounds. He was known as
Mr. Yonge, but from the first rumours were in
circulation that he was a Count, whilst a report
that he was a Napoleonic Prince also received
considerable credence. He mixed in the best
society, and was a constant visitor in several of
the first houses. He was accustomed to ride about
in a brougham drawn by a pair of spirited cobs.
Amongst his most intimate associates were a cer-
A “PAR.”
“Lawn-tennis bats made from trees felled by Mr. Gladstone are becoming fashion-
able and popular.”— Daly Paper.
Yes, the G.O.M. whittles these bats out himself. He does it by candle-light,
out of hours, and is able thus to keep himself in tobacco. Why can’t these daily
newspaper fellows tell a respectable one while they are about it?”
taia Colonel and Ladv Mabel Atherley, and at
man { the concerts given in the town he took
part q n duetB with the latter. He performed on
pi ano forte, not merely with the bnl-
liancy of a clever executant, but with the
fi re 0 f genius. When playing, the whole
sou l of the man appeared absorbed, and he
W as utterly oblivious to his surroundings,
About this- time there appeared, every week:,
articles of a most extraordinary character in the
local journal. The ‘skeletons in the cupboard
0 f every family in the town were paraded, every
bit of scandal was worked up in spicy language,
S
ISd S L™
propr i e tor of the paper a weekly sum for the
privilege of writing his leaders. Emm this time
the ‘Count’s’ popularity began to wane. So
pleaged) however, was Mr. Yonge with his literary
| abourg tliat be determined to purchase the jour-
nal- This he did, and he began to pose as a great
pa tron of the Press. On one occasion he gave a
splendid banquet to the journalists of the Isle of
wight, at Self’s Hotel, Ryde, when it was re-
solved to form a Press Association. Some little
w fifi e after, Mr. Yonge sold his paper, but to pre-
vent his exercising his literary abilities at the ex-
pange of his neighbours, a clause was inserted
j TI the contract that he should not write for any
other paper ; yet ere many days had elapsed a
journal, rejoicing in the name of the Hukara
made its appearance, the principal papers of
which were articles from the pen of the mys-
terious resident. Before long, however, it ceased
to appear, and at last there was peace. Benson
wag a cr i p pl e> an d was always lifted in and out of
the carriage by his valet. One day, the ‘ Napo-
ieonic Prince ’ disappeared, and was not heard of
a g a j n i n Shanklin until he turned up in a Bel-
gian Police Court on a charge of being concerned
[ n go me gigantic turf-swindies. The lame-
ness, it appeared, was caused through a deter-
m-ned attempt he made to commit suicide
by setting fire to himself. In manner he was
f asc inating and genial, a brilliant conversa-
tionalist ; he had always an abundance of anec-
dote at command, and amongst women he was a
great favourite.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Orange Institution is classed among
the “ Friendly ” societies.
Judging from a last week’s leader, Sydney
E. News opposes payment of members.
It is now proposed to sew up the pockets
of certain of the members of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment.
Siberia produces more gold annually than
Australia, and it all goes to the Russian Govern-
ment.
Parkes declines to take over Norfolk
Island. It will remain a Crown colony under
N.S.W. control.
Parkes denies that a quarrel has taken
place between himself and Goodchap. He says
that there is “ a little friction ” and no more.
Since his recent interview with Parnell,
Gladstone has expressed admiration for the per-
sonal character and political sagacity of the Irish
leader.
It came out last week that vouchers for
£11)1,357 for rabbit destruction under the abortive
N.S.W. Rabbit Act are lying unpaid in the
Treasury!
They say that the Victorian Naval Re-
serve soon got sick of the war scare and showed a
disposition to mutiny after 24 hours’ weary wait-
ing for the Russians.
Mr. Chanter, M.P., says that the report
that he is an applicant for a N.S.W. railway com-
missionership is a *' deliberate and scoundrelly
lie.” Now, Mudgee !
Mud J. Haynes says Commissioner Good-
chap is “an over-rated man with very little brain-
power.” Any quack can saw open a man s head,
give evidence at an inquest.
In a lengthy leader the Argus commends
Sir Henry Parkes for the alleged improvement in
the finances of N.S.W. This is rather rough on
that “great financier” Burns.
Said Premier IToquet in his recent speech:
—“As for you, General Boulanger, remember
that Napoleon was not your age when he died.
You will be but the sire of a still-born constitu-
tion.”
The whirligig of time brings strange re-
venges. One Den not O Haynes, says the
OTuathill Wirasthu, our assistant sub-editors
man Friday, was the most conspicuous warrior on
the Irish side at the battle of the Boyne,
It is stated, on the highest diplomatic
authority, that the very first hint to the Courts of
Europe of opposition to the Exhibition to be held
next year to celebrate the centenary of the 1 lencli
Revolution of ’B9, came direct from the Czar.
The last report from Suakim shows a
frightful falling off in the inventive powers of the
cable-perjurer. Instead of Osman Digna being
killed and his army totally dispersed he forlornly
announces one British seaman wounded in nine
places.
The N.S.W. Legislative Council has re-
solved to discontinue the practice of adjourning
on the death of an hon. member. A sensible
move ; the public regards a politician as dead
when he enters the Council, so there can be no
earthly necessity for any fuss.
It is stated that negotiations are pending
between the Victorian Government and the Im-
perial authorities as to the extension of Governor
Loch’s term of office for another five years. At
present Knutsford declines to entertain the pro-
posal—there are too many hangers on of the
Salisbury Government to whom £lO,OOO a year
and perquisites would mean a happy relief from
their English creditors.
Judging from all we hear, the financial
affairs of Sir Henry Parkes were never in a more
satisfactory state than at present. The affairs of
the country he rules were hardly ever worse.
Twas ever thus. As the Russian proverb says :
—“The trainer remains sound, while the horse
dies.”
During Melville’s recent speech in the
N.S.W. Assembly, a certain member who helps
to lend m.ney at usirrious interest ejaculated;
“ It’s nob in the bond.” Melville: “The honour-
able member for Shylock says it is not in the bond.
He will find, if he looks, that that pound of flesh
is in the bond. ”
People talk of the surprising deeds of the
men who raised the huge blocks of stone to the
top of the Pyramid of Cheops, but one of the
cadgers for the Parkes’ testimonial declares that
the work of raising subscriptions for that fund
was one of the biggest things in the way of lifts
that this world has ever seen.
The N.S.W. Premier got a “ magnificent
reception ” at Grenfell (N.S.W.) the other day ;
and now a long list of accounts sent in by those
engaged in the manufacture of triumphal
arches, &c., on the occasion have been repudiated.
Poor Parkes seems fated to leave a pecuniaiy
difficulty wherever he plants his foot.
Creer, M.P., has offered £25 to anyone
who can prove that he ever sold Chinese-made
goods. If he had named any other amount some-
one might have made it a wager, but since
“ Uncle ” Abigail backed out of his little bet with
Tub Bulletin, people who offer to stake a
“pony” on anything are looked upon as mere
bluffers.
Treasurer Burns says he is not aware that
there are a number of old and worn-out steamers
plying on the N.S. Wales coast as colliers. He
has, however, referred the matter for the consi-
deration of the Marine Board. After this it must be
admitted that Treasurer Burns has a stupendously
comprehensive supply of ignorance. As to “ re-
ferring the matter to the Marine Board,”
“ Cocky ” might as well refer it to a tin of pre-
served oysters.
Minister for Justice CJarke says that
“ further information is now being prepared with
respect to the Mount Rennie criminals.” This is
the most contemptible political shuffling. No
“fresh information” is needed to justify the in-
stant release from gaol of the miserable young
wretches to whom the authorities extended
“mercy.” Mr. Clarke is surely aware that these
prisoners, who are under sentence of life-long im-
prisonment, have not yet been tried.
Now that reform in capital punishment is
exercising the public mind we would suggest that
the surest way to execute a criminal in a refined
and painless manner would be to place him on a
farm, in a country cursed by Ereetrade and
ruinous railway rates, and inform him that he
must w ork that farm and live on the profits. As
a crime-deterrent the gallows, with ics Sickening
Thud and Convulsive Movement, fades away into
a mere circumstance beside this scheme.
Mr. Dan. O’Connor, M.P., on his first
appearance in the N.S.W. Assembly since his
severe illness, had a big fling at the Supreme
Court judges. Barring the Chief, whom he is
pleased to regard as “a great man,” he considers
the occupants of the bench as of not much ac-
count, and quoted the London correspondent of
theS.M. Herald, who enquired if “our judges
were.chosen from retired bullock-drivers.” Has
the appeal, O’Connor v. North, anything to do
with Dan’s ire?
The E. News smiles in print over the re-
opening of Wearne’s Anchor Flour-mills, in Syd-
ney, by the Victorian firm of Messrs. Gillespie,
and greets this as another Freetrade industry.
But it damages its cause a little by admitting that
the Victorians who have taken over this busted
Freetrade enterprise are importing protected
grain to grind in a Freetrade land, the reason
being that Victorian grain is cheaper to begin
with, and can be landed at a cost of 3d. per bushel
against 9d. per bushel charged for a few miles of
railway carriage in N.S.W. The News should in-
terview “ honest ” John Sutherland, and get him
to sneak in a little more Protection.
We read that “the Queensland Government
have decided to pursue a much more vigorous
policy in the management of the gaols and penal
establishments in the colony than hitherto. ” _ We
hope this doesn’t mean more flogging. Not so
very long ago the Queensland gaol authorities
allowed a long-sentence prisoner to go to work
outside a prison, thus offering him a special
temptation to endeavour to escape ; and when he
had (actuated by the love of liberty, the noblest
impulse in human nature) accepted their invita-
tion, they brought him back and gave him twenty-
five lashes. Sir Thomas MTlwraith, when re-
organising the prison department, might keep in
memory the above mentioned pieces of savagery.
In Canada, in 1879—the year when Pro-
tection was first introduced—the revenue of the
central government was only £2,600,000. Nine
years of Protection have brought it up to
£ 6,700,000, or more than 2h times what it was in
the enlightened days of Freetrade; and yet the
Canadians only pay 21s. per head in customs
duties as against the 425. taken from the cornstalk
in support of the policy that was built to “abolish
tariff burdens and set commerce free.” In the
last eleven years of Freetrade, Canada paid
£1,100,000 per annum for imported wheat; in the
first six years of Protection she paid £34,000 per
annum only; and the farming industry, which
had fallen into hopeless decay under the pressure
of a vast importing trade, is now the chief source of
her wealth and prosperity.
The Atkinson Ministry has submitted a
sweeping Protective tariff to the N.Z. Assembly,
and the vote of censure which the Foreign-trade
party promptly brought forward and the curse
which they heaved at the Cabinet of backsliders
were both thrown under the table by 50 votes
against 27. N.Z. has been run for some time on
semi-Protective principles, and has now decided
to “ go the whole animaland the adoption of a
similar policy by South Australia and Queensland,
both of whom have deposed the Joss of imported
shoddy, leaves England and New South Wales to
figure more conspicuously than ever as the only
two countries on earth which can be fooled by
Freetrade, And meanwhile, Britain and Parkes
—the latter, in his own opinion at least, being
synonymous with N.S.W. —look round compla-
cently on the situation, and report to each other
that a more obstinate globe they never met with
in all their lives. In a word, Private Murphy
asserts that he is the only man in the regiment
who keeps step.


fd
7^/f
p} f/f /c£
A ' ft/emE.
\s
Miss
fcr/tSy
|l
t
. __ />/
iy
ft
S L %
y
//
*
£
>•
i
/S* \OUK9
vS* ■#
W- TO LESLIE
V
iV'EU /£ .
Far Rt fl
fc H 155 C) WIA
w
3°/"
/j / J, isC^lii
futv
U£s ue
# **v
tyfl £ u
f


J%S
.AS
yirt«jwrf
u
w
to Ug£
V iA^Mt
\ K^¥w
%) yk&s
•
»s lHtlfias*ito*Le
f*f>£K''
?S s! tT'£-<? % JV<O
[/*✓
* 05 CREAK
’IT*
VfiV#
•ri
£,
ft /{
# 1
Sfifte *
fr%R
\
%<=> *f
*
fj^
London Burlesque In Australia: The Gaiety Company at Melbourne Princess' s.


FEE G ELIS
can be effectually eradicated by
the USe OtCLBMBNTS’ Frbcklbbanb
Frecklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless
Tost free from the inventor, F. M. Clements, 141 King
Street, Hewtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P. 0.0. Sold by Washington Soul »nd all chemists,
icwsre of worthless imitation',
When next you bake try Pemell’a Snow-whim Pamh»
Boimb Fiicn*. and year bread wil be ae white ae anew.
Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, best Snow-whit*
Patbbt Roliilß FljOub. It Is the greatest success of the
•«r«.
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED.
Established 1853
Are as usual showing ths largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prices
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS,
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention Is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments i
UEBEL and LB3LSTQ PIANOS.
Iho Wonderful TICTOE PIANOS,
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESIE7 k Co. Aim OESANS,
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W. H. PALING & GO , ltd
lire OKOBGfE STREET, three Doors from Q
Society
For “banging Banagher ” the following
meteorological report of a Sydney Morning
Herald scribe is worthy of a goblet of refinec
gold. Under the heading of “The Weather,” he
says :
“ The weather has been such for the last few days, or
even weeks, that it is somewhat difficult to relate any
thing fresh. Yesterday was undoubtedly the counterpart
of the day previous. In the sun it was certainly warm,
but immediately the shade was obtained the atmosphere
assumed a most decided change.”
This is only equalled by another diagnosis by a
reveller who, while spending the night with a
friend and some whisky, was asked to look out
and see what sort of weather it was. Mistaking
the cupboard for the shutters, he opened the door,
put his head in, and reported, “Dark as Hades,
and smells of cheese.”
* * *
From the Age of 26 th May :— 1
A JONES, who worked on the Tasmanian boats,
will give 10s. to any person who can say any-
thing against him, speaking the truth.
Now, A. Jones, The Bulletin claims that half-
sovereign on the ground that your name is Jones.
That fact is fearfully against you. Nobody can
get on whose name is Jones. Where on the roll
of the Immortals is the party by the name of
Jones ? We can only remember one Jones of any
account—lnigo Jones—and he died 200 years ago.
Smith is a name which it is hard to bear—ask
Baron Carington if you don’t believe us—but—in
short, Jones, we want half-a-sovereign.
* * •
Daring the trial of Mrs. Spann for murder
(her acquittal on the charge was a foregone con-
clusion from the very first) witnesses were re-
peatedly asked whether prisoner’s grief for the
departed Gillett (who had made a will in her
favour) was genuine. Nobody appeared to under-
stand the unfathomable depth of this problem,
except Mr. Rowley, the Bourke-street chemist,
who said, “What do I know about women?”
His answer showed that the dispenser of pills and
powders knows more than all the others :
At St. Kilda (Melb.) Police Court some
little time ago a sturdy larrikin, for cleaning out
the contents of another man’s meat-safe, got
seven days and departed joyously to “ do it on ’is
’ead.” The next case was that of an old man who
had, in his stupid maundering way, openly picked
some flowers—valued at 6d.—in St. Kilda Ceme-
tery. He was sent to gaol for three months.
Such sentences as the latter are savage, brutal,
monstrous and unreasoning, They only serve to
bring the law’s administration into hatred and
contempt.
* o •
The Victorian Bee-keepers’ Society have
discovered, to their cost, that the Melbourne
market is now being flooded with bogus honey,
chiefly composed of glucose and dextrine; the
spurious article can, however, at once be detected
on examination with the polariscope. In Sydney,
much more than half of the honey sold is fictitious.
Just think of it! Bogus honey spread over bogus
butter plastered on short-weight bread !
* * *
The ship Trevelyan, from Glasgow to
Dunedin, has 43,000 gallons of “ speerits ” on
board. During the past few months there has
been great excitement in the Presbyterian capital
of Otago auent Professor Salmond’s pamphlet,
“ The Reign of Grace.” The Professor, who is an
ex-meenister of the Free Kirk, has been throwing
cold water on the doctrine of hell fire. Hech,
sirs, it will tak’ muckle whisky to settle that lot.
* * *
A resident of a Sydney suburb complains
in a daily paper that goats and barking degsmake
night so hideous in his neighbourhood that “it is
almost impossible to get a fair night’s rest. ” Why
doesn’t some one of the many nervous and sleep-
less people, whose lives are cursed by dcg-yelping,
take a test-case into the courts? The matter of
expense need not be feared, as there are plenty of
people who will only be too glad to subscribe.
Should civil remonstrance fail in the first place
and the law fail in the second, there is a third
remedy—strychnine. To this latter many are
now compelled to resort in the first instance, inas-
much as where the life of a patient depends upon
reasonable quiet being at once established, there
is no time to go to law. A heavy dog-tax, to be
collected by the police and paid into the public
Treasury, would go far towards curing this evil.
Such a tax would be a cons ; derable source of
revenue. Dogs are not needed in cities, but
should it be contended that more police would be
needed were there less watch-dogs, the answer is
a ddrtional policemen be paid for out of
the dog-tax.
* * *
*1 r ‘ Doolan, late paying-teller at
the Bank of Victoria, Melbourne, appears to have
CTeated a £lOOO deficiency in his cash by a system
which filled a long felt want while it lasted. At
the trial of Doolan, last week, gentlemen came
forward to swear that prisoner occasionally paid
them money in excesi of the amounts filled in
upon their cheques. Witnesses had handed back
these unearned increments, but it is open to doubt
whether the bulk of Ihe Bank’s customers didn t
embezzm the . missing £lOOO among them,
lloolan pleaded gtiilty to being “short” and will
do 1L months imprisonment—no doubt to the deep
regret of many who must have begun to regard the
Bank of Yic as a charitable institution.
* • *
The nobility and gentry, haw 1 of poor old
England have at least one virtue which belongs
only to undistinguished colonials. They pay for
their amusements, and, as a rule, piy the top
price. We in Australia have become so used to
seeing every “ eminent ” man go everywhere on
that it will surprise nobody to learn
that about 50 per cent, of Melbourne’s aristocracy
will enjoy the tree run of an Exhibition which is
likely to cost the people a quarter of a million of
money. The great Centennial Show was origin-
ated by deadheads for deadheads, and the Govern-
ment dare not publish a list of the thousands (not
hundreds) of well-dressed men, women, and
children who must be passed in gratis during the
coming six months.
* •
Gould, M. L. A., told the N.S.W. Assembly i
the other night that “ all widows are squanderers.”
fd
CLERICAL SABBATARIANISM.
“Archbishop Benson, of Canterbury, is a warm advocate for
the use of bicycles among the clergy, and adds that he would
willingly lend his influence to a society for providing impecuni-
ous ministers with ‘the steeds of iron.’”
CLERGYMAN (on his way to church): “AH! YONDER COMES
A YOUTH ON A BICYCLE FOR MERE PLEASURB
I SUPPOSE I MUST REMONSTRATE WITH HIM
FOR SABBATH-BREAKING.”
This should come under the Treason-Felony Act,
for it is about the most atrocious slander ever
uttered against our “ pre-eminently ” careful
Queen.
O * »
Bathurst Hospital owns pubJic-house pro-
perty in the City of the Plains. Cause, effect, and
remedy!
* • #
Editor Bulletin. —Sir,—The attention
now being given to “ the world’s language ” is in-
creasing. Those who laugh at Yolapiik, as a
dernier ressort contend that it can never be the
language of poetry. I submit the well-known
verses of Goethe, entitled “ The Brooklet,” trans-
lated into Yolapiik nearly literally. When the
vowels are sounded as in German, diphthongs not
being allowed, and the accent mostly placed on
the last syllable of the words, the Yolapiik version
may not sound more uncouth to English ears than
Russian or Chinese poetry.- Yours, Arthur W.
Bateman, Ry 1st one, N.S.W., 2nd July, 1888.—
Blukil.
Oblukil silefik e klilik,
Aispidol ve smavegi,
Su dami stanob e letikob :
Kiia komol-li kipladi golol-li?
“ Kiimob de, viime klifas dagik ;
Lumob flolis e licepis ;
Lok oba mufik manifamon
Magi flenik sila yulibik.
Also binob yofik as jils ;
Golob, ab no nolob kipladi,
Kel evokom obi de stone,
Om zelado odukom obi bived.”
Thus the Northern Miner, in the bitter-
ness of its soul :
“ The Australian is nothing if he is not a shouting, yell-
ing man, a betting man. That is his element, his glory
he enjoj a it as the summum bcnum of existence, and i
he is satisfied why should we preach to him of his low
tastes ? We may turn out aLa Place or an Arago, a Hux
ley or a Spencer, yet—when we have outgrown i attics
horse-racing, rowing, and pugilism and cease to thin e
them the finest things in creation. The worst featur
about young Australians is their contempt for what they
know nothing about. A turf blackleg looking down on
Demosthenes, or a Cicero, a Phidias, a Praxiteles,
Michael Angelo, a Shakespeare, Milton, Byron, or Moore
with the high scorn and contempt only a Sydney native
can bestow is a picture to be seen only in Australia.”
• * *
The other day a faithless lover who had
refused t) marry an ex-girl of his, the daughter ol:
a Murray farmer, had to face a volley of bullets
from her little pistol. A woman scorned is, for-
tunately for some rascals, a very bad shot.
• ■ •
A well-known clergyman was calling on a
“relic,’’and the widow was telling the Reverend
Cream Cheese about her late husband’s happy
death. “And in the evening,” she said, softly,
“he put his hands together, closed his eyes, and
murmured, ‘ And so He giveth His beloved
sleep’” “How beautiful,” said the clergyman;
“ falling asleep, indeed ! And those were his last
words ?” “ Not exactly,” said the widow, slowly;
“ he wmke up in the morning, asked for breakfast,
and choked over a bone in the fish-balls.”
• * *
The latest song issued in Melbourne is
called “Take, oh ! take those lips away.” It is
sung with onion effect.
• •
Lot’s wife looked back to see how her
austle hung.
There isn’t so much
difference between a
wedding and a death
as people are apt to
imagine. In the firs
case, two are made one
in the second, one i
made nothing. It is r
reduction of one eacl
time, anyhow.
* * •
“Monte” Smith,
who died recently ai
Hinton (NS.W.),
willed Ins heart to the
medical profession.
Now we want someone
to leave the doctors
some brains.
* * *
A weekly fashion
paper says that “the
Louis XVI. hat is be-
coming to a p-etty
woman made of yellow
and black straw.”
What we hunger and
thirst to know is, what
is the most bee ming
head-gear for an ugly
woman made of wire,
whale-bone, foreign
silks, and back num-
bers of a washy journal
filled with stupidity
and girly romance.
• * *
Many who read
this will be sorry to
hear of the severe ill-
ness of Mr. T. N.
Pugh, of the Aegus.
The other day Mr.
Pugh went into the
Victoria [Coffee Palace,
opposite the Aegus
office, to have a cup
of coffee, when he was
suddenly struck by
paralysis, and rendered
unable to speak or
move. There is no
more popular or amia-
ble man on the Press
than Pugh, who origi-
nally came from
Queensland, and has
been a member of the
Aegus staff s : nce 1870,
with the exception of
the brief period when
he was employed as
shorthand writer in the
Victorian Crown Lands
Department and pri-
vate secretary to W. H.
Archer, when the lat-
ter was Assistant-Com-
missioner of Lands. On
“ Black Wednesday,”
Graham Berry in-
cluded both Pugh and
Archer in the dismis-
* a -s, and Pugh went straight back to his old
quarters on the Argus. He is at present one of
the assistant sub-editors of that paper.
• $ *
The Sydney Bathing Cos. have sent us a
bath-ticket. This is indeed an insult.
The artificial bust of the flat-chested
A ankee maid is now filled cut with canary seed.
The old bust, which was stuffed with cotton-wool
or fluff cr hay or some other kind of donkey’s
breakfast, always looked too solid and unnatural,
but the canary-seed obviates this defect. It moves
with the motion of the wearer and can bear
squeezing without injury,
* * *
Asa sign of the times in foreign trade
N.S W. we note that in the list of contributors to
Sydney Hospital for June but two appear in
double figures, and those two are banking institu-
tions.
♦ * *
A neat little stoiy reaches us from up
North. A certain Irish barrister (let us call him
Mulligan) was on circuit. In a hot and dusty
Western town the Judge, retinue, and Bar had
taken up quarters at the chief inn, and Mr. Mul-
ligan, hav.ng no business on the first day of the
sittings, got in the early morning, not to put too tine
a point upon it, gloriously drunk. The obliging
host had him undressed and put him to sleep off
his potations, and at eventide, the business of the
day finished, the Bar, including his Honor, assem-
bled at dinner. Mr. Mulligan (who had slept
well, and had now fully recovered, “ barrin’ a bit
of a head that he bad on him,”) got up, took his
bath, entered the dining-room as fresh as paint,
and astounded everybody with : “ Well, this is
uhe most exthraordinary counthry I was ever in !
Here are yez all atin’ hot sirloin of beef for
breakfast ! ” He was under the impression that
he had just enjoyed a night’s sleep and that the
were engaged in discussing their morning
• * *
A Melbourne suburban butcher has de-
nf s y m Pk° ms .°f delirium, anarchy, and
bloodthirstiness, owing to too much mother-in-
law. His wife’s maternal progenitor had been
roast mg under his roof-tree for some time, and,
although she was, in his own expressive words,
a holy terror to snort,” he put up w ith her, and
she continued to put up with him, and eat enough
tor seven men and a cow, and lecture him to the
verge of madness when he came home from the
lodge with a hiccup. At length, however, his
own mother dumped herself down at his fireside,
and she immediately diverted the other mother-in-
law s attention from the butcher, and for a time
he was allowed to rest his head, and handle beef
in peace; but the portentous calm soon exploded,
and the butcher’s home was thick with flying
furniture and victuals, split wood, crockery, and
boots. The mothers in law had declared war.
1 hey heaved things at each other, and hit the
butcher s baby ; they took up hats-full of hair,
and dragged each other across the dinner-table,
breaking the family plate, and spilling the hash
over the eldest girl; they howled fitfully, and
charged with soup-ladles and legs of mutton, and
then they closed, and fell into the brine. This
was only the opening of hostilities; thencefor-
ward the two elderly matrons met in battle about
seven times a day, and were rarely seen with-
ol!t. .torn ears, black eyes, bald spots and
sticking-plaster. They were both bigboned
and ugly, and, when they opened fire,
y as a dvi-able for all spectators to
stand out of range, and view the conflict from an
eminence. The butcher sent his wife and family
up country, pending a settlement, and posted a
notice before his shop advising pedestrians to look
both ways befo e crossing, and be prepared to
dodge if they saw anything coming. Two men
were wounded in passing whilst a pitched battle
was under way, and many customers had to be
forwarded home in carts during one week. The
butcher canied his nose under a shade, and his
Jeg m a sling, frequently passed the night out on
the roof, and meditated suicide on Sundays. His
mothers continued their assaults under arms right
ahead in a straight line. The business fell away
to a shadow, and the neighbours to the right and
left shifted to a distant suburb, and belated way-
farers grew accustomed to the clash of contending
parties on the butcher’s premises, and the view of
a dark, fat figure patiently perching on the chim-
ney, and plainly visible in the moonlight. How
women would have continued to renew
the charge, after short intervals for rest and re-
pairs, had not the housefather drifted into frenzy,
is hard to tell. But he did drift that way, and
terminated the riot by a decisive manoeuvre. The
enemies were squealing, and kicking, and bucking
more violently than usual when the butcher,
whose brain, probably, was affected by the great
strain that had been put upon it, suddenly charged
in upon them, and, with the energy of madness,
fired them both out of a window, breaking the
arm of one and the head of another. They were
gathered up and removed to a hospital in due
time, and the result of the outbreak remains to be
proved, but, meanwhile, business has been re-
commenced at the butcher’s shop, and the neigh-
bourhood is now so calm that old residents cannot
sleep for five minutes a night.
* * *
We deeply regret to hear that Mr. Donald
Cameron, whose name as a story-writer is
well known all over Australia, and who has of
late been editing a N S.W. provincial newspaper,
is now lying very ill in Melbourne and that many
months must inevitably pass before he becomes
convalescent. Mr. Cameron came down to Syd-
ney some weeks since in a very weak condition,
but determined on proceeding to Melbourne, in
the hope that he might be able to get work and
that a cooler climate would beneficially affect his
health; but the result has been that he has
‘ dropped in his tracks. ” Mr. Cameron has worked
hard for many, many years, and, being a Bohe-
mian rather than a man of commerce, has not
prospered in point of money ; he has met with
the hard luck which sooner or later may come to
all; and, as we have said, he is now terribly ill
and has fallen in the effort to work. We shall be
glad to forward to the proper quarter all subscrip-
tions forwardt and to us on Mr. Cameron’s behalf.
Who has lived so many years
Looking on this passing show,
That he knows when women’s tears
Tell a tale of real woe ?
Ne’er a creature on this earth
Yet has learned their briny worth,
Though those tears in rivers flow.
When a widow mourns the dead—
Raising melancholy cries—
Flings herself upon the bed
Where the dear departed lies,
Few would doubt her own belief
That ’tis t Qna-fide grief
Which she flaunts before our eyes.
If a lover’s careless word
Brings about a painful “ scene ”
(As has very oft occurred
When we’ve vexed our little queen),
Strephon, who can certain feel
That the maid’s distress is real,
Must be very, very green.
Women weep and women rave—
Sob and sigh and moan and whine :
From the cradle to the grave
They assert their right divine.
Who has lived so many years
That he knows when women’s tears
Are but sham, or genuine ?


Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-whitb
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.*
PRICE OF
WARNER'S SAFE CURE REDUCES,
A reduction of Sixpence per Bottle on all of
Warner’s Safe Remedies takes place after this date.
Consumers should remember this when pur-
oh sinpr the Medicines.
Dear Bulletin, —Referring to your re-
marks in this week’s issue on the Marquis of
Queensberry having “ los 1 ) his pass to the House
of Peers,” allow me to say that, so far as I am
aware, neither the Marquis of Queensberry nor
any of his ancestors have ever had a seat in the
British House of Peers. They have been peers
of Scotland only. The Scotch House of Peers
elect 16 of their number to represent them in the
House of Lords. At every dissolution of Parlia-
ment a fresh election of Scotch peers takes place.
The Irish peers return 28 of their number, elected
for life. So far as lam aware none of the Mar-
quises of Queensberry have every enjoyed th
honour of being a Scotch representative peer
When the Duke of Queensberry (“ Old Q.,” as h
was called) died without issue in the early part o 1
the last century his various titles and estates wer
divided amongst distant relatives of his house
The dukedom of Queensberry fell to the Duke o
Buccleuch, whose descendants hold it to-day ; th
rnarquisate of Queensberry fell to Golone
Douglas, whose descendant is the present Mar
quis, and the Barony of Douglas to another rela
tive. The barony is extinct long since. “ Ole
Q.” had a maiden sister, who, at the mature ag
of 50, bestowed her budding affections on a
officer of the army (whose name I forget
and in due time presented her liege lore
with a son and heir. When old Q. died his siste
brought her son, then three years old, to Scotlanc
and set up a claim to the titles and estates,
forgot to say that this child was born in Prance
This claim was contested on the ground that unde
the circumstances the child must, in hi
alleged ducal capacity, be spurious A long
course of litigation ensued and ultimately th
House of Peers decided against the claimant
King George the Second appears to have enter
tained a different opinion, for when the young
man attained his majority the King created him i
British Peer as Baron Douglas. To the best o: 1
my recollection Lord Douglas died without issue
few years later. I write this from memory only
as it is many years since I read it. Yours, etc.
Trotter Bethune. Moonee Ponds, Vic., 7th
July, 1888,
* * *
Germany lias a surplus of 1,000,000 women
Now we know why she can’t keep quiet.
♦ * #
According to the evidence given in the
criminal court, Greenways’ Bank, which recently
went to unearthly smash at Leamington (Eng.)
was down so low 20 years ago that its capita
amounted to only £7. It never made a cent after
this, but the partners lived at the rate of £IO,OOO
a year from 1868 to 1888, thus inviting the widow's
cruse of oil to take a back seat. The difference
between (Jreen ways’ Bank and a lot of the financia
institutions of Sydney to-day lies chiefly in the
fact that the former once did possess £7.
• • •
A romance from a Melbourne suburban
police-court. He was a long, supple dude with
yellow moustache, and he wore walking-sticks
with gold nobs and silk hats and eye-glasses anc
other upholstery common to young fellows who
earn £1 7s. 6d. psr week and go about booking
gait-rs and things at the rag-shops. She was
dark and wi'ching and dimpled, and was a work
ing milliner, holding a leading position in
Melbourne hat-factory where ladies’ high-pricec
tiles are run up per contract with scaffolding anc
block and tickle. He loved her with all the
passion such a flabby, flat-headed, tailor-buil;
personage was capable of. She reciprocated anc
laid her head against his hollow chest and listenec
to his asthma whet zing every evening at the gate.
Sometimes he shut his eyes and chipped a kiss off
her ear, but not often, being bashful and blushfu
and a long way behind in coming up to time. How-
ever, as the evenings grew colder she induced him
to come in to tea and nurse her before the parlour
fire, till the time-payment clock pointed out that
he would have to hasten to be in time for break-
fast at his hash lady’s. This continued for some
months, and the young man noticed that he had
never yet met his Julia’s ma. He knew Julia pos-
sessed a ma, but she was of so retiring a disposi-
tion that she had invariably just gone to bed
whenever he arrived. Truth to tell, that interest-
ing matron was most eccentric in her manners;
she was infatuated, wild-eyed, and a long way
“off her dot,” and had to be suppressed and de-
tained in a box when visitors were about, because
of her peculiar modes of procedure and originality
of style. The dappled dude became very curious,
and conjectured till his head ached, but failed to
fathom the mystery, ti'l it burst upon him one
night when he was sitting in the parlour, waiting
the return of his love, who had gone to the grocer’s
for sardines. He was all alone, and lost in
thought, when there came stealing into the room
a mysterious female with a black eye and a red
nose. She was tall and gaunt, and resembled Lady
Macbeth in a nightmare ; her dress was peculiar,
and she had augments and her hair by adding the
tail of a sable charger. This grotesque curio
eyed the quaking youth a while, and then she
plunged on to his frail breast-bone, observing in the
tragic tones of a woeful heroine in a French
play ; “ ’Tis he ! ’tis him ! Me own Alfonso,
Prince of Dungaree, and Great High Mogul of
Yarra Flat !” Then she hugged him till he
gasped for air, and scraped all his hair up end-
ways ; after which she laid her head up against
him, and reminded him that she was Queen of
Spain in her own right, and connected by mar-
riage with the Prince of Wales, the Czar, Duncan
Gillies, and L L. Smith. She then kissed him
twice, and observed that they had better flee the
wrath of the tyrant, and seek rural seclusion in
the moated grange, where they could hire a fat
monk with a scraped head to solemnise their nup-
tials for two-and-six and a bottle of three-star,
“ Oh ! come ms love, ’ere the ruthless minions of
the wicked Baron bear us to the leaky dun-
geon ! ” she wailed, and sank down upon
the Prince of Dungaree, fetching away his
ninepenny collar, and putting a kink in
his neck ; but the colonial noble tpurned
her from him, and said he had not the pleasure of
her acquaintance, and looked as if it would be a
great comfort if he could fall dead. Whereupon
the Queen of Spain snorted aloud and changed
her bearing without gradations. “Ah!ah !” she
cried, ‘' then you have played me false ! Begone,
perjured villain, or beware the bate of a daughter
of Cetewayo!” And she seized a fire shovel and
struck Julia’s dude athwart the ear. The next
three minutes were spent by the young man in
dodging an excited lady with a jug. The woman
came up with him just as he plunged through the
window, and “ fetched him another lick ” that
opened his head for inspection. When Julia
returned with the sardines her young man was far
tar away, and her ma was roaming about clad in a
tablecloth, and looking pensive and angelic.
Julia's mash never returned —he said there were
iim-jams in the family.
[?]
816, Macquarie-street North, Sydney, July 11, 1883.
Mv Dear Moorabinda, —
There is more “ wholesome fun ” in a visit to Govern
ment House, Sydney, on one of Lady Carington's day
than in a whole week of “Billy” Elton. All the wome
who go there have imitated as closely as possible th
manner in which her ladyship shakes hands, and, for th
benefit of distant adorers of vice-regality's manners,
may as well record that the gubernatorial salute is a littl
(Lady Carington’s hands are very small) firm grip, acoon
panied by an affable smile and forward inclination of th
head. Accordingly, we get all this— ad nauseam— outside
Mrs Smphith and Mrs. Johghnson—old friends of lon
years standing—yet, meeting on the enchanted ground o
the carpeted piazza at Government House, salute in th
amiable though formal style ; and everywhere you looi
’tis there—the bending head, accompanied by a weak anc
watery smile perilously like a simper, for people who im
tate never seem to “ get there,” do they ?
The “ leading feature ” of the business at the genera
committee meeting of the Women’s Industries and Cen
tenary Fair, held last Friday at Sydney' Town Hall, wa
the reading of a draft address of condolence to th
Dowager Empress of Germany. The lady entrusted wil
the task paid a due regard to the aspirates and final “g’s
but never a word said anyone about “ Pre eminence
Grief.” The ceremony having been gene thr >ugh wit
a gravity and deliberation befioti.ig the solemnity and in
portance of the occasion, fhe numerous “ Your ladyships
present proceeded to hold a lengthy discussion on th
subject of the articles to be exhibited at the fair, which
from all I hear, is destined to be a splendid success.
The managers of a certain Melbourne skating rink ar
getting a monopoly of high-toned patronage by tci’in
anyone who isn’t expensively fixed up to stop outsid
until he is. Just at first there was a little trouble wit
the poor but honest portion of society, who used to shak
their towzled locks at the boss, ard ask him whether on
man wasn’t as good as another if his “ bob ” was all righ
Then the boss would explain that he himself was a Re
Republican as regards men, but a bloated aristocrat o
the subject of their togs. That settled 'em—that did
They left the “ doods ” in possession of the rink
and now this establishment is a perfumed dream of ran
and fashion every evening until further notice. The gir
find it crowded and so select, you’ve no idea.
Quite an exciting incident happened on the Sydne
Block recently which ended in the dire confusion of
mest dignified individual who, rumour says, possess's
title in “ the dear old mother country.” He wa
getting into a cab with a lady when his glossy top ha
came in contact with fhe front of the hansom and wa
knocked off, falling on the pavement and scattering in it
fatal flight a very murky collar and a pair of socks, which
bad been nicely stowed away in the crown of what vulga
little boys call his “ nail-can.” With an airy skip, belief
by his burning cheeks, the victim recovered his hat anc
its contents, carefully repacked his wardrobe, regardless
of the tittering around him, entered the hansom and
drove off. But under such cruel circumstances an
emotionless retreat avails nothing.
New South Wales and (Queensland footballers meet cn
Sydney Association Ground on the Uth and 21st insts. to
try conclusions. If the Sydneyites persist in wearing
those skinny-looking claret guernseys and hosen they wil
strike the Bananamen as being individually not thicker
through than so many yards of pump-water. Why don’t
the Cornstalks adopt horizontal stripes ?
I read, recently, that in the United States stuffed baby
alligators with glass eyes are the craze at present for trim
ming hats and bonne’s. This fashion is worth Austra
lianizlng—considering that Queensland suffers under an
abundance of the wide-mouthed reptile, and one hat
ornament is as good as another ! If our leaders of fashion
decreed that a stuffed alligator, crawling up a red bow,
was the proper style, the danger of bathing in Queensland
rivers would soon be reduced to a minimum, for by nexl
season all that would remain of the scaly bite noir would
be boxes of him pinned out on cardboard going at a sacri-
fice at stock-taking sales.
The “ Lights o’ London ’ at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is a
drama that only be should staged during summer. I don’t
like to see Handsome George plunging into a tank of icy
water at a time when I feel like keeping my opera-cloak-
over my collar-bone all through the show. They say,
though, that the public takes kindly to plays that have
water-tank scenes. I suppose because there is always a
hope that bad actors will be drowned some night! But
we haven’t that hope in Sydney. Only stars dive out
here!—and George takes care to keep for himself all the
water just as he usually keeps for himself all the lime-
light. Doesn’t he, Mr. Lawrence?
It seems that, now-a-days, when in leap-year a girl pro-
poses to a man who refuses her, she expects a pair of
gloves in recompense. A pair of gloves costs, say, five-
and-sixpence. Eleven sixpences—that’s a woman’s esti-
mate of the value of a man !
What a cruel thing it was for Postmaster-General Roberts
to cut out and sew up the Sydney postmen’s pockets I
Just fancy being a man and not having two openings to
thrust your hands into when you wanted to talk poli-
tics ! I suppose postmen talk politics—l suppose they
talk about Mr. Roberts, for instance. The discomforts of
the situation are appalling 1 As one Sydney lady re-
marked to me, apropos of the subject: Just think— only
think, my dear, the poor fellows have tad nowhere to
carry their pocket-handkerchiefs ! ” This, I think, was
exaggerating the situation, don't you ?
On the sth inst. the members of the Masonic Lodge St.
Andrew held their annual social re-union and ball at
West’s rooms. The festivity was eminently successful,
the floor, music, and refreshments being all that could be
desired. As the rcorrs were very full I could not dis-
tinguish many of fhe dresses, but all seemed pretty and
tasteful. A cream satin, with bodice ornate with crystal-
spotted tulle : Bernhardt gloves of white su&le, and white
feather fan. An eLctrio-blue silk, draped with shrimp-
pink gauze. An ivory'-white satin, with side panel em-
broidered in pearls, and a black lace gown, out low, had
the very neat and simple adornment of just a cluster of
Czar violets.
Sydney Hunt Club held a race-meeting on tbe Rost hill
course on 7ih inst., and presented what the
Sydney sporting reporters Invariably speak of as a
‘‘nice bid of fare” to the crowd that attended. Isay
the crowd, for the lawn, stand, and paddock were well
packed. Of the dresses on Saturday a dark-green cash-
mere bodice and draperies, with plain front of moonshine-
green, watered silk and V-bodice, trimm'ng of the same,
looked charming. So did a dark-blue cloth, nicely-fitting,
worn with a velvet hat en suite trimmed with dark-blue
bows and gold quills. Then there was a light elephant’s-
breath gown with a vest of salmon-pink and trimmings of
steel, bonnet to match with ribbon and pink roses. A
grey, with scarlet habit-skirt and high Jubilee-red hat.
One of the choicest costumes on the course was a plain
dark-green skirt, dark-brown jacket, and dark-brown and
green bonnet. And what do you think of a dark-green
satin trimmed with pale-blue satin, and dark-green velvet
beefeater hat with pale-blue plumes ? Then a dark-blue
satin with front of dark-blue and w’hite checked satin
velvet bonnet and plumes to correspond. A magpie cos-
tume of black silk with smocked white habit-skirt, black
velvet hat with white ribbons and feathers—why, I could
never tell you them all! A Clydesdale lady appeared in a
crimson costume with a skirt-trimming of yellow hoops,
and as she was short and fat and rotund, the effect was
irreeistably “casklike.” Much amusement also was
caused on the lawn by the appearance of a lonely male
stranger attired in a rcan-coloured suit of slops, crimson
sash, white boots, and felt hat en suite —an
attire sufficiently conspicuous to commend itself to the
pencillers on the flat, and to make one regret the absence
of Phil May. A brass band and a rather strong breeze
were the only thorns throughout the day, and Austin’s
catering would have inspired Sala through six columns.
Haughty advt. from the S.M.H.:—
"V ORTH ——. —A squatter's daughter has
x ' recently taken a large house for the purpose
of making a true home for gentlemen. Cards Foster s,
144 William-street.
Soon enough we will have, I suppose, “ A bank-manager’s
sister-in law has vacancies," or “A member of Parlia-
ment’s aunt W’ants washing.” Eh ?
Is there a more daring man in Australia than Smithson,
the stationmaster at a certain suburban station ? “ The
Department,” to accommodate the residents of this
suburb, erected a gate on the platform to prevent
people having to rush up a great flight of stairs with the
train on the point of starting (as trains always seem to be,
don't they ?), and wished it to be an informal matter alto-
gether. But Smithson had set his heart on speeches and
an “ opening,” and so defies the Department, and keeps
the gate locked and won’t let the people through until it
has been opened by Parkes and several bottles of Mumm.
And no v I hear Parkes is going to open it. The gate is a
small one, too, not large enough to swing on, and if the
Parliamentary party includes John Lucas, and he leans
on it, there will only be an a-filing hole in the atmosphere
and some ruins w-here the gate once stood.
Tessero’s French Comedy Company’s first night
came off on the 7th inst. at Sydney Gaiety, and, as
Lady Caring-ton was present, Potts Point crowded the
place to the doors. Her ladyship—whose gown wasn’t
very visible from the upper dress-circle—wore a confec-
tion of yellowish satin skirt with black moire-silk
drapery ; b:dice en suite narrowly striped, with black-
yellow bow in the hair and diamond ornaments. A
striped plush and silk crimson mantelette, edged with
fur, formed “ Her Excellency’s” wrap. There were some
other pretty gowns displayed. A cream satin, with front
drapery of old gold satin fastened here and therewith tan
velvet bow's. White satin and lace skirt, with white satin
bodice, ornate with white lace and silk ribbon. Ciel-
blue silk, with Bernhardt gloves of blue kid, and
wrap of garnet plush lined with pale-blue silk-
Flesh pink silk, with matching aigrette. Yellow
satin, very quaintly cut, with full sleeves ; smocked-
pointed yoke of white silk. A white moirb, with
a cluster of roses at the corsage, and many, many more 1
The fat woman was there in embossed black velvet wav-
ing a huge flam ng red-feather-fan and enveloped when
the breeze struck her in a gorgeous cloak red enough to
take the colour out of even Ginger C ’s hair. As for
the gowns behind the footlights the two nicest were a
handsome costume of heliotrope silk draped over an un-
derskirt of dark and light heliotrope, large quarter-acre
checks worn by Mdlle. Linange as Henriette de Silly,
and a steel-grey atin, with plain front of figured satin
worn by Mdme. Raymond as Mdme. de Barmont. As for the
messieurs of Tessero's band the way in which their clothes
fit them and seem to belong to them ought to cause the
Sydney dude to seek seclusion at once. lam told that the
local season subscription-list amounts to at least £2500.
The subscription system, by the way, is bad for benefit
purposes. When Tessero took his benefit at Melbourne
there were 1000 people in the house—and 900 of them
held season-tickets I
At Sydney Hunt Club races at Rose Hill on Saturday,
“ Eddard” Hanlan appeared in a glossy top hat, and his
hair cut. It couldn’t have been the same top bat that he
wore to that recent entertainment at one of our rinks ! At
that gay and festive whirl somebody put the ex-
champion’s silk hat orown-downwards on the supper-table
and by came some irreverent boys with crude ideas as to
the holiness of boat-pullers, and filled that reversed “tile”
with raspberry tarts, custard balls, and other oozy and
sticky horrors. You can picture the denouement, but /
don’t blame thoss boys. Probably owing to the position
of the hat they mistook it for a plate !
As promised, the “ Natatorium,” under the auspices
of the Sydney Bathing Company, began to splash on the
sth inst. in the presence of a number of Ms.P., suburban
Mayors, and other patterns for society, together with a
brass band and the National Anthem. Mayor Harris
opened the basin with a few severe remarks to the bril-
liant assemblage on the virtue of personal cleanliness,
and then the sturdy Cavill family, disguised as Jack Tars,
pirates, and policemen, fell into the waGr (it fortunately
was tepid), and remained there until the conclusion of
the affair, which came in the agreeable form of some very
choice refreshments.
Three smoke affairs happened on the 4fh inst—the
Sydney Druids’smoke concert, the Sydney Liedertafel ditto,
and the Orpheus Club’s smoke concert—so that Wednesday
was a perfect harvest for the tobacconists. The Orpheus
smoke was its farewell puff of the season. There were Gehde,
“Lucy” Allpress, roman tic-looking Warwick Gainor (whose
speaking portrait looks out at the doors of ye block from
Huenerbein's window), “ Pussy ” Poussard, Sydney Moss,
Caron, “ Daddy” Hallewell, and Walshe, so the success
of the concert was a foregone conclusion “ from the
jump.” Very slangy, this, isn’t it ? But slang cuts things
short.
Crystal Palace skating rink holds a grand carnival on
the 25th inst.
Mr. Septimus Miller, fourth son of the late Money
MiiKr, married a Geelong lady (M’ssßell) list week, when
the bridegroom's relatives very properly discarded the
suits and trappings of woe in favour of festive apparel.
The happy pair had previously stood the tiying ordeal of
a “ long” engagement, so I presume that their prospects
of living happily ever afterwards are distinctly hopeful.
They gave a ball at Government House, Brisbane,
in honour of Admiral and Mrs. Fairfax. One hundred
guests claimed Governor Musgrave's hospitality, and the
affair was a great success,
The Sydney Liede'tafel's selfish “smoke” night came
off, as promised, on the 4th insf., and, in compliment to
irresistible Consul Griffin (whose miniature bust we are all
longing to hang on our chatelaines), the first number was
the hoary and patriotic “Tar-bangled Spanner ’ (as it was
once spoken of to me by an excited N’Yorker at a 4th of
J’ly hop). At smoke concerts (1 get alt this useful in-
formation from a man) it is easy t o detect which is cul-
ohaw and which isn’t, because evening dress—that demo-
cratic garb which renders all men alike—isn’t adopted,
and so the fumeurs have to stand or fall in their remorse-
less “cut-aways” and “sacs.” The concert was a huge
success. Willitnoff beamed on the crowd thro’ gold-
rimmed gig-lamps and a halo of “Virginia;” Walshe
warbled like an escaped Israfel, and, altogether, I am
more than ever disgusted that they made a “puff” affair
of it.
The other afternoon in Blank-street I saw a fat man
flying to catch the beat, and evidently without a moment
to spare. As he turned the corner a gust of wind caught
his hat and blew it into an enclosure with long, spikey
iron rails, and the entrance gate p Blocked ! The situa-
tion was too awful for profanity or hysterical cackling.
That man simply stood aid gazed. Perhaps he wouldn’t
mind his misfortune so much if he could know that he
has the deep and silent sympathy of yours affectionately
SAPPHO SMITH.
[Interesting items of fasnicnaUe Intelligence Intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully receive d
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bullsiin Office
An ex-detective is now butchering in Mel-
bourne. It is an established truism that police-
men “cut up well.”
When a lot of Sydney men put out a
company-prospectus they should be careful as to
the man who s ; gns it as secretary. Nvff scd.
Dan O'Connor says that Goodchap is a
handsomer man and a y<ar younger than Mr.
Eddy—Dan is not a bid-looking fellow himself.
An animal of large discourse signing him-
self “McDonald ” writes to the Northern Miner
(Q.) to make the following large statement ;
Our friend need not go to Freetrade England to find the
same thing ; but let us see hosvmuch better they are in
that boasted Protectionist country of “ America.” In
New York alone there are upwards of 30,000,000 families
obtaining relief, and, as Henry (ieorge put it, “ it is esti
mated that were the houses in New York city, containing
criminals and the recipients of charity, set side by side, ii;
would make a street twenty-two miles long.”
We feel inclined to give up believing in anything
after this. The horrors of Freetrade and Free-
traders are bad enough, but the horrors of
Protection must be something unspeakable
when we consider that that policy has reduced
3(1 million families, aggregating probably 150
million human beings, to pauperism, out of a
total population of 11- millions. Even when
the writer goes on state that in some
parts of the States Protection has reduced wages
so low that a man cannot earn sufficient to live
upon—from which we presume that men don’t
live at all there—the announcement falls, flat after
this preliminary shock. What we want now is a
few more statistics about these 150 million paupers.
Most of them, we presume, are broken-down,
decrepid men about 750 years of age and 18 feet
high, who once lived in affluence and had diamonds
by the shovelful and kept the family pearls in the
coal-bin, but who are now reduced through
the pressure of abject want to earn a precarious
crust by digging tunnels 1500 feet long through
hills that are only 1100 feet in diameter, and
strive vainly to keep off the footprints of the hand
of poverty as it comes howling upon the blast.
There are so many of these people that we could
believe almost anything regarding them, and,
pending further information, we put forward
these few brief moral speculations to make Puls-
ford feel good and allay the public thirst for use-
ful knowledge.
General Boulanger, the theatrical little
Napoleon of 1888, has done more for the French
troops than is generally supposed. His great aim
was to make the French soldier, as far as possible,
a gentleman, and there was abundant scope for im-
provement in this respect. Before Boulanger’s time
there wasn’t a fork amid all the rank-and-file of
the great army, neither was there a wash-basin or
a clean bed ; the veterans of the Republic ate with
their fingers and scrambled through their military
career in immense sties, which were glorified by
the name of barracks. Boulanger introduced lava-
tories, comfortable dormitories, plates, tumblers,
cups and saucers, knives and forts, and other evi-
dences of civilisation, and paid for them mostly by
the profits of a violent and vociferous audit of the
contractors’ accounts. The difference between
the French and the English sol ierused to be that
the former had abundance of food, and had to put
his head right into it to eat i h , for want of the
rudimentary tools of existence, while the latter
had nothing worth menlioning except IJIb. of
bread per diem, and was furnished with as many
appliances as if he were going to consume all the
luxuries of the season. Now the two armies are
about equal in the matter of forks and spoons, and
the well-fed Frenchman begins to think that he
could try conclusions with his hereditary and
hollow-chested adversary with a decent show of
wiping him out. When Boulanstr is not busy
looking beautiful, too, there is a sort of wild
generosity at other people’s expense about him
which appeals to the instincts of the military
Jacques. Once during his career as War Minister
he was requested to send a body c f froops to over-
awe some hundreds of starving miners on strike,
and he sent the troops right tff-with orders to
leave the hungry toilers alcne and give them an
even share of their provisions. This scheme
preserved_ order : it didn’t cost the General a cent,
and it raised a wild burst of enthusiasm, not only
among the miners, but among the soldiers who
had to put up with half-rations fer Boulanger’s
glory. The man who could keep square with all
parties at such a crisis has brains enough—of a
sort —to demoralise an invading army by giving
the men free passes to all the paralysing leg-shows
of Paris, and then when the performance was over
he would cripple the foreign troops by covering
the floor with tacks.


BEALE and COMPANY,
482, 484, & 486 George-Street, Sydney.
Sole Importers of
The Inimitable Hapsburg Pianos
The Celebrated Haydn Organs and Harmoniums
The Beale Patent High-Arm Sewing Machines
The Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle
The Beale Patent Knife-Cleaner
The Beale Baby Carriages.
No matter in what part of the colony you live
ma 6 w1 ti suppl y y° u with our Manufactures upon
Time Payment, or a Liberal Discount for Cash.
THE HAPSBURG DOUBLE IRON-FRAMED
PIANOS
Possess the following advantages :
1st. The WIRES are of a very high quality, and
intensely sensitive ; their vibrations, reverbe-
rated by a sounding board of special construc-
tmn, are clear and bell-like, instead of the
muffled, pr tmkettly, or metallic sounds so
™ 111011 . ln c .h® a P English or French pianos.
2nd, Ihe action is perfect check repeater.
3rd - All the Hapsburg Pianos are Trichord.
4th. They are all Seven Octaves,
5th. They have consolidated Iron Frames of great
strength, thus resisting the rapid mutations of
a humid tropical climate, and requiring tunincr
only at long intervals. ®
6th. The 1 ! elts are Clinched on the Hammers in-
stead of being fastened by glue, as is the case
with nearly every piano except the Hapsburg
7th. They have Brass or Nickel-faced Rest Planks
instead of the old-fashioned perishable style. ’
8th Rust is guarded against, wherever possible
by the substitution of bronze for other metals!
The outer cases are handsome in design, and
of durable and beautiful woods \ they can be
had in Walnut, or in Walnut and Gold, or in
Ebony and Gold.
W'
S3®!
m
mmm
mm
BEALE PATENT NEW HIGH-ARM SEWING MACHINE
mm
HUH Special Qualities and Improvements.
flLoose wheel; selfloosing tension combined with
presselfoot; automatic selfspooler, best and finest
of all; balance wheel and attachments nickel-
plated, to prevent rust; ingenious shuttle-lifter ;
no tiresome threading of check-lever, needle-clamp
and shuttle; all pieces subject to friction made of
best material and hardened; stands with rollers
and adjustable cones
To those who employ a laundress, and are wili-
ng to do the washing at home, the saving is great.
The cost of a week’s washing by the Beale Patent
Washer is about One Shilling.
Beale Patent Washer, Wringer and Mangle,
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows, and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary, only
the water and clothes being agitated by an accu-
rately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-wheel.
The clothes are simply dropped in, no arrangement
or packing being wanted. The special reversing
gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards and for-
wards, and a very small expenditure of strength
suffices to lash the water into a mass of foaming
suds. In the process the clothes are floated to and
fro, up and down; currents and cross-currents of
water are formed which meet and are forced through
and through the fabric, carrying away every particle
of dirt and stain. The linen being merely SUS-
PENDED in the water, is not rubbed and scrubbed
as in hand-washing. Neither has anything to
submit to the hand-wringing process which in-
sensibly rips, tears and wears the clothes. Thus,
the most delicate fabrics cannot be torn by our
system of washing. Everyone has noticed that
their clothes seem to be as much worn by washing
as by use. This is caused by the fierce rubbing
they get upon washing-boards, or by the hands.
With the Beale Patent Washing Machines this
friction is done away with. Therefore, the clothes
will last far longer than by hand-washing, however
careful. When the washing is done, the tub should
be wiped out, so that it be always sweet and clean.
There is no false bottom, and nothing to accumu-
late greasy sediments.
Catalogues and Price Lists Free by Post.
BEALE AND "COMPANY
482, 484, and 486, George Street, Sydney.
Everybody says— and what everybody says most be true
—that Pemell’e Show-whit* Patiwt Rolls* Flod* Ii the
bus* Id lh» n)»Tfee»."
Business Announcements
S. freeman & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Batho's Baking Powders. Orient Square Slug,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS, j
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS. PERSIAN SHERBET.
&0., &o.
* STEAM WORKS :
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
GRAND HOTEL,
CORNER of MARY and MARKET-STREET
BRISBANE.
(Opposite A.U.S.N. Wharf.)
D. COSGROVE, Proprietress.
(Late of Lennon’s Hotel.)
THIS Hotel having passed under a new manage-
ment, great improvements have been made,
making this one of the Finest Hotels in the
Colonies. Private Suites for Families.
Ladies Drawing-rooms, Gentlemen’s Reading
and Smoking-rooms, Billiards, Night Porter.
Hotel Porter waits for all boats.
The Culinary Arrangements are under the
supervision of a Continental Chef.
Business Announcement.
and lamb.
JJ - E W T 0 N
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
©ABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
# Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS.
m
m
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, ©r Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in any
material. J
PIANOFORTES by R. LIPP and SOHN
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7-teet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and O’Connell Streets.
Five pounds fifteen shillings
BEDROOM SUITES.-The Economic
.Bedroom Suite, comprising Wardrobe, Washstand
with Towd Rail, Dressing Table and Glass, and
two Chairs. The lot for £5 15s.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs. —Wardrobe, 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door: Washstand, with marble
top and tile back and Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; Pedestal Cupboard
and Two Cane-Seated Chairs, 16 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring Streets.
fd
A USTRIAN BENT-
WOOD
FURNITURE.
A Vbbt Oompletb
Assoetment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
w
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. 6d.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
SUPERIOR WHITE BAMBOO BLINDS.
6xB, BxB, 9xB, 10x8, 12x8, at low prices,
JAPANESE BLINDS (extra quality), fitted
with pulleys and cords, 6xB, 6s. 6d.: BxB,
95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.; 10x8, 10s. 6d.; 12x8, 12s. 6d.;
12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb, Furniture Ware-
ousemen, Spring and O’Connell Streets.
fdf
PATEN
SHUT-UP
CLOTHES DRYER,
135 feet of hanging space
Very Cheap.
NEWTON & LAMB.
d
ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS,
Substantial and Light,
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spbinq and O’Conneul Streets.
LAWN and PARK SEATS, 6ft. long. Rustic
Cast-iron Standards, 14s. 6d. each. Newton
and Lamb.
GARDEN SEATS, 19s, Verandah Chairs
Indian Long-Arm Lounges.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs, from 12s.
6d., etc.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell streets.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at Lowest Prices,
Newton & Lamb, Importers, O’Gennell-
street.
BEDDING, all descriptions at Lowest Rates.
Newton & Lamb, O’Connell-street,
SPRING MATTRESSES, Woven Wire, bes
make, also Spiral Spring, from 14s. each.
NEWTON ami LAMB.
CORRESPONDENCE
A. Macintyre ” : The “ English-speaking
federation ” idea is mere gabble. The Americans (as a
nation) wouldn’t help England if she went to war, nor
would the Yankees, as individuals, help her unless they
were paid for it. If they were paid they would help
anybody. They would merely seize upon a general
European war as an interposition of Providence on be-
half of their cartridge-factories. Business isn’t brother-
hood. A heterogenous nation like the States, comprising,
say, 10,000,000 of Germans (who, as a matter of fact, have
no more love for England than a cat has for cold water) ;
a million or two of men who are more or less Dutch ;
8,000,000 of Irish (who, of course, enthusiastically love
England) ; a few millions made up of Spaniards, French-
men, and Italians, and, say, 10,000,000 of negroes—such a
nation, educated in the most remorseless commercial
ethics the world has ever known, would be very likely to
help England as a matter of sentiment—don’t you think
so 1 As for the language-tie, that is nonsense. The
American may speak a sort of English, but he thinks
in American. “Jest you bet.” “ E.E.” : Why
not : Blanqui, the great Frenchman (who spent 30 years
of his life in gaol) lived and did brain-work during all
that time on 31bs. bread, Jib. sugar, and three pints of
milk weekly. He neither drank nor smoked “New
Chum (Albert Park) : A little too gay, don’t you think ?
Only the pious papers, who never mean anything wicked,
could afford to publish so striking a double entendre.,
“ Past Orangeman ” : Letter received too late to look up
illustration ...“M. B. Goggs”: Very good indeed....
“ J -S.” (Ashfleld): A truly beautiful story.... “ Converted
James”: Too tropical a yarn for us. Send it to the
Protestant Standard. .. .“E.A.” ; It’s easy to invent
cablegrams. And the worst of it is that when you do in-
vent them and label them “ spurious,” they bear a
striking resemblance to the spun-out things palmed-off as
the real article “ 8.P.” (Liverpool): The Echo might
have had the decency to let some paper which had no in-
terest in the matter take up the defence “ ” :
Where is the alleged great man of the past Australian
generation who has left a worthy successor of his name
to continue his patriotic labours?....“Correspondent”
(The Pinnacle): It isn’t verse....“ J.H.W.” : Will read....
“S.S.J.": It is a mere toss-up between “the cowardly
murderer ” who skulks behind the hedge and the brutal
landlord who evicts a pauper woman of 80 years. We’d
as soon be that murderer as that landlord at the final
reckoning “ Australian Native ” (Melb.) :We may yet
use to illustrate an argument “John Collins”: By
and bye. You see, they will keep “EfS.B.”: Very
instructive—almost as instructive as the Circular pri-
vately issued the other day concerning the big rise in !
Sunny Corner silver-shares “Argo*’: Your verse, j
clever though it be for a 16-year-old, smacks too strongly
of “Golden Gully” to be acceptable...'." W.H.C.R.” :
We print your “ Motto for the Anti-Chinese League ” : i
. “ Australia for the British race
And native-born Australians ;
Confusion to the yellow face,
Damnation to all aliens !”
Don’t you consider, say, the French and Germans, good
enough to be accepted as citizens, or do you class them
with the Chinese ?.... “ H.W.” (Q.): A man who keeps a
dam is a Government servant, and from observations ex-
tending over many years we have ascertained that a
Government servant can supplement his earnings by run-
ning a sly-grog shanty if he likes without the police
taking the slightest notice “E. Wakley ” : You needn’t
make such a fuss over the matter ; there is plenty of cock-
fighting, and dog-fighting, too, in quiet places near
Sydney every Sunday.... “C. Miles That’s right. They
have several papers ; one of them booms up the cat and
the gallows, and another of them speaks of flogging and
hanging as “relics of barbarism.” “S.C.”: “How do
we know that the N.S.W. Premier and his Minister for
Works are privately at loggerheads ? ” Well, we know it
because we have constantly read the newspaper whose
chief political raison d’etre seems to be the bolstering
up of a certain politician....“ T. Gallagher”: Write
to Turner and Henderson, Sydney, for Farrell’s poems.
Sorry we haven’t a spare copy of the issue referred to
“ L.H.8.” (Canonbar) : Too mysterious for use
“ S.E.”: If you have a charge of corruption to make
against any member of the land-board in question, write
to a member of the Opposition “Joseph H.”( Sydney) :
Good. Will be used.... “ 0.P.Q.” (Sydney) : Your amus-
ing hash-house observations are being attended to by Mr.
Titus Salt.... “ J.R, J.” (Brisbane): Your story about the
boundless sea is too old to impose on anyone...." G. 8.” :
(1.) The legal profession is overcrowded so far as mere
numbers go, but not one solicitor in 50 is worthy of the
name of lawyer ;as to the higher branch of the profession,
a man of brains and strong personality always has a
chance. But you might as well be a mediocre tailor as a
mediocre lawyer, so far as glory is concerned. Any born
fool can money as a solicitor, if he has friends. The
same applies in a greater or less degree to the profession
of barrister, which, in N.S.W. just now, is chock-full of
more or less incapable people. A young barrister who
starts practice without friends has a hard row to hoe,
however able he may be. You won’t get any pay as an
articled clerk, unless you are very lucky. There are only
about 80 or 90 barristers on the roll in N.S.W “ E. 8.”:
Will see about it.... “E.L.D.”; Handed to artist....
“ New Norfolk ” : We don’t remember your questions.
What did you a5k?....“ W.H.”(Jenolan Caves): Good.
Australia's ” Monster Consultations. July
Handicap, Rosehill, July 28, 1888. 4000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First horse, £800; Second,
£250 m , Third, £l5O j Starters, £250 j Non-starters,
£250 (divided amongst them), and 100 Cash
Awards of £3 each. Also, July Handicap. 3000
Subscribers at 20s. each. First horse, £l5OO •
Second, £6OO ; Third, £300; Starters, £3OO ; Non-
starter, £3OO (divided amongst them). The Tram-
way Handicap, August 28,1888. 4000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address “ Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dal veen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“ The greater part of the congregation
present at Sydney Orange celebration were ladies.”
The rest were old women,
Mr. A. E. Halloran, sheriff of Queensland
(brother of Mr. Henry Halloran, of N.S.W.), is
retiring after 50 years r service.
Copmanhurst (N.S.W.) has three churches
and only one “pub.” There must be something
radically wrong at Copmanhurst.
Last week’s yield from Broken Hill Pro-
prietary silver-mine—394 tons of bullion contain-
ing 81,6620 z. silver from 1878 tons of ore.
Up to now 32,000 tons of tin have been
taken from mines in the Tingha (N.S.W.) dis-
trict, representing about If million sterling.
Parkes opposes Payment of Members and
says Gladstone opposes it. The “Boy Politician ”
rises in a daily paper to point out that Gladstone
avows his hearty approval of the system.
Rev. G. Lane says that “ dry rot indiffer-
ence is the curse of the age.” Quite true : the
indifference of the public to the dry rot talked by
the average clergyman must be very galling to
their reverences.
Plaintiff s counsel, Messrs. Want, Q.C.,
and Heydon, both being ill, the further hearing
of the important test-case for damages against the
Bulli Colliery Company has been adjourned till
the middle of August.
The hearing of the action, Bennett and
others (of Sydney Evening News) against The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., in which damages
are claimed for alleged libel, has been set down
for hearing at the Supreme Court, Sydney, for
August 13.
The new Emperor of Germany is one of
the many patrons of Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. It
is also used by the Khan of Bokhara, the only
Tartar sovereign who has withstood with any
degree of success the steady advance of the Russian
power in Central Asia.
“ Teach the children that there is a heaven
and a hell, ” writes a splenetic pietist in a Mel-
bourne paper, “and morality will improve!”
Assaults with violence should decrease, certainly.
People would be content to leave the Social
Purity Society to its sure reward.
A Wesleyan minister stated in Melbourne
the other day that he was once appointed to a
mission where the place of worship was a baker’s
shop. This must have been convenient —if the
ovens had not got too cool —when he told his
congregation about what they might expect in
Hades if they didn’t mend their ways and leave
off putting buttons into the plate.
There is some occult connection between
the two subjoined paragraphs, which follow one
another in close marching order in a Sydney
daily :
“It has been decided to invite Sir Henry Parkes and
the other Ministers to Gunnedah during show week.”
“ A shoal of about L 0 sharks, of the blue species
entered the Kiama Basin yesterday, and five of them
were captured.”
The other day we expostulated with Mud.
J. Haynes as to his invention of the following
cablegram
“ Bismarck, since the death of the two Emperors, has
been much depressed, and has been drinking very
heavily.”
We pointed out to him that this, though a
characteristically Australian view of European
politics, was needlessly irreverent. Replied Mud
J., with the greatest calmness, “Well, isn’t that
what they always say of a Minister when he’s
away from his office for a day or two ?”
The N.Z. Chinamen have taken an
elaborate rise out of the Eulopean man. A
“ proclamation ” has been circulated in which the
Chow Emperor is understood to say that he in-
tends swamping Australia three years hence with
a huge ironclad fleet and an army of 12,000,000
men. Sydney D.T. devoted a leading article to this
scare, and now it solemnly and confidently talks
about a “ careful translation” of the proclama-
tion —as though it had never seen a court
engaged for three months right off in endeavour-
ing to translate one single entry in a Chinese
insolvent’s ledger.


Amusements,
11
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
THE GREAT EMOTIONAL DRAMA,
EAST LYNNE EAST LYNNE
EAST LYNNE EAST LYNNE.
Popular Prices, 35., 25., and Is.
Business Manager, B. J. MULLIN,
0
RITERION THEATRE.
Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
Mh BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT’S
very popular and powerful
COMEDY COMPANY
at the above
ELEGANT and FASHIONABLE RESORT.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING
Mark Melford's Irresistable Comedy
TURNED UP.
ADMISSION-55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
4th YEAR.
EVERY EVENING,
THE WONDERFUL MUSICAL KINGS,
FIELDS and HANSON
ANT) THE SLEIGH BELLS.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d,
EXTRAORDINARY NOVELTIES TO FOLLOW.
Sydney
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
Miss MABEL SYLVESTER,
the Champion Lady Skater of the World, has just
arrived by the R.M S. Alameda, from U. S. A.,
and will give her Eighth Exhibition in Australia of
TRICK and FANCY SKATING at this Rink,
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, July 12, at 9
o’clock, and
Every Evening during the remainder of the
WEEK.
’Buses will leave Wyny ward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, la.
B
OTANY!
BOTANY!
BOTANY!
EVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacked and Classical Concert of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
COOGEB PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director —Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is.;
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopford, Sub Manager.
A
CAD E M Y
O F
MUSIC
STARTLING ANNOUNCEMENT.
THE GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
SATURDAY NEXT.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT OF
HISCOCKS and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
in conjunction with
HISCOCK S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
ON D I
A QUA R I U M.
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
ustralia. The famous SWITCHB A.CK RAIL-
LAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
ally. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
ree to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to G p.m. Admission,
!.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates —fare, 4d,
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOR
Gentlemen’s Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.
lirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
)thing in the following makes Cashmere,
imb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
001, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Pat
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Trav
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Attention.
Jjavasobt and Drubbing-Room Pbootdbd.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S theatre!
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Peioes, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
NEW BABYLON
NEW BABYLON.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway's.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Lessee, Mr. H. E. Werner.
General Manager, Mr. R. B, Wiseman.
Stage Manager, Mr. Arthur R. Lawrence.
Press and Public unanimous in pronouncing the
brilliant success of
MISS ADA WARD as MERCY MERRICK.
TO-NIGHT. Miss ADA WARD as Mercy
Merrick, supported by Mr. Akthuk R. Lawrence.
ADMISSION-4s. 35., 25., Is.
ASHEIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events :
July 7. —Grand Bicycle Match, Clarke v. Lebeau
for £5O a side.
August 4.—The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
G
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
THE MOST PAHSIONABLE RINK IN SYDNEY.
Still Another Grand Success.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager,
SKATING SURFACE;
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England,
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
„ „ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE.—The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
Business Announcements.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES!
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIBAKETTE3, also mEST ESAHDS of CIBABS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Trices I
tr Note this Fbiob I
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand-in Tin Boxes of 100, at
BIX SHILLINGS EACH!
IV By baying from ns yon will save at least
S 6 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
11 mSiCK STREET, S7DNE7
(opposite Savings Bank).
FITZROY HOTEL,
BAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
First-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Private Sitting-room, without extra charge.
Oood Stabling, Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THH BRIGHTON OB’ XT.B.W.
AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rechercM
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country )
here also you can have good company, good wines—ln fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable can be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and Picnic Parties provided. I'able
de H6te at 1 o’clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminstkb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH, MANLY.
~THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
■T7°ictorla.-
Tel CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, la
the moat fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
reaort In the Colonies.
The Hotel contains BS Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladles’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced,
Sku. B. Spuing S Go.,
PROPRIETORS,
Lath Of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN N.S.W.
The PALACE HOTEL, BCHUOA, la
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Riverina District. Mr. J, H. B. SPEAKING'S
Thirty Years' experience as a Public Caterer
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con
slderatlon all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Baths.
Aloook’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. E. S. Sjiaiiij,
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements,
|v i -. •
V •• '.. ; A. > *.r#
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark —“ The Greenwich Observatory.’’
Specially prepared from Ripe Fecit, and is the best of
all Fbuit Salines.
EEALIS-PIHS, BH&ESBIM, IHVISOEAIIHS,
A Preventive of Fevee, Liveb Complaints, Headache,
Heaetbuen, Indigestion and Sea Sickness.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get It only at Grocers, Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM. PARSON'S, A.P.S., Greenwich, England.
Agents :
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
• ft
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
a
m LABELLED TPMS OR PACKETS'THROUGHOUT THE OOiOMY.
y
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORY,
BILLIARD* CUSHIONS, &0., MADE ON THE PREMISES.
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
SLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CRICKET,LAWN TENNIS & IPWLi
BUREOUGHES & WATTS,
7, Lltflt George Street, SYDNEY, H.S.W., aM Soto Sqaare, LOMOI,
D R. RUMNEY
presents his compliments to
HIS AUSTRALIAN COUSINS,
and begs to say he will be happy to welcome them
again this season on board
THE “ WONDER” COACH,
which last season carried safely 1934 Passengers,
and since October, 1880, has covered 63,785 Miles.
The trip to ST, ALBANS is a perfect “ sensa-
tion,” and the lunch there is a “ blessed reality,”
fully appreciated by those who have a “Wonder’
Coach appetite. The Cathedral is one of the finest
and oldest in the world.
Ask at the Coach Office, HATCHETT’S
HOTEL, Piccadilly, for all particulars.
N
EIL MACK AY is NOT authorisedto
Oanvaasfor The Bdllbtis.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL
Corner of
• Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE
lirsb-olasß Accommodation. Suites of Apartments
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS ... . Proprietor.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
HUIiR&Vi HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOB, BARRINGTON, Proprietor,


Business Announcements.
itsr T-EAJQ ONLY
PM tMIIEIT
fat Supply Association!
I 658 George Street, 658
I 658 Colonnade, 658
5 DOORS FROM LIVERPOOL STREET.
V J
IS the Cheapest House in Australia for buying
all kinds of Musical Instruments, and every
description of fittings, and purchasers will do
wisely before buying to compare our prices with
others.
Over 500 Different Kinds of CONCERTINAS
from 4s. fid. up to £l5.
Special Lines;
Anglo German, by Lachenal 35 Si
» » » » steel notes ... 50s,
Organ Concertina, in ,wood box 21s.
Q
• show of ACCORDEON B to be seen
m the colonies from 10s. fid. up to £5 at any
ORDER | IEGIAL LINES t 0 suit COUNTRY
Patent Brass Reeded Accordeon ... 30s, Od.
Patent Silver „ „ ... 325. fid.
Patent Steel „ „ ... 355, od.
. 7 J 6 ’ 10 /& 15 l'> 2 °/-' , 25 /-> 30/-, to £2O.
Speciality: Old Copy Violin, in case complete
with Instruction Book, Bow, Resin,
Eittings, and extra set of Roman
strings for 85/-.
1/6, 3/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/, 15/-, up to £7 10s.
About 200 different sorts in stock.
Speciality : 8-keyed Cocoa Concert Flute, patent
sliding head, complete in case, by
; best English maker, for £2 10s.
Sole Agents in Australia
FOR
Signor Zampanani’s
CELEBRATED
which can be sent post free for 2/fi, 3/-, 3/6, 4/- 4/6
5/- and 5/fi a set. ’ ’
/ Single ones in proportion.
American Banjo Strings.
Gut Strings, 6d., 9d., and Is. each.
Silver and Copper Strings, fid., Is., and Is. 3d. each.
Also, '
EVERY KIND OF STRINGS
for the
kitar, Cello, Viola Double Bass, Haro,
Sithor, Jo.,_k
In Banjoes we have the finest to be seen in Aus-
tralia, having by the last American Mail received
an extra shipment from
6/-, 7/6, 1.0/-, 15/-, 20/-, 30-, up to £l5 15/-.
OUR SPECIATi LINES ARE
5, 6 or 7 string nickel Banjoes, £3 10/-.
5,6 or 7 „ „ „ £4 10/-.
NIGGER MINSTREL TROUPES FITTED
OUT.
BRASS AND DRUM AND FIFE BANDS
FURNISHED THROUGHOUT.
Upon receipt of P.O. Order for any of above
special lines, we at once despatch Instrument. In-
struments packed carefully and sent to any part of
the colonies. All enquiries promptly attended to,
P.U. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN, Manager,
658 George Street,
SYDNKY
A bank teller is never wanted till he’s
missing.
■Jimmy Thompson, a Botany Chinaman,
has been fined at Sydney fi r starving his bullocks.
•Jimmy Thompson ! This indeed is sacrilege.
Wire from Queensland ;—“Bore down
1600 feet.” He n-ed to write S.M. Herald
leaders, but foolishly gave up his billet and went
to Queensland, with the above result.
Scene : A foreign church dimly lighted.
-Uniter an English young-old-maid, who stumbles
into first handy pew. It is “ Churching ” Sunday
tor women. V oung-old-maid has evidently got
into wrong pew, for enter presently sacristan.
Sacristan (imperturbably, and holding out hand) :
“A/r H. a ? cs > ma dame.” Y.O.M. (in alarm) :
,:„ i’ '^ al ’ l e ne B wee par marriai.” Sacristan
(still imperturbably, and still holding out hand):
Alors, six francs, mad moiselle ” Tableau and
much curtain.— Journal Pour Eire.
Bear Bulletin, — What’a in a name ? Any
amount. Look here. Snider asked MDougal,
tfiegunmaker, what he wouldtakefor “that thing
)? T “ e C( r A ner - ’ Tbe thing was the Snider rifle,
y, he patentee died from hunger, while the
dear old mother country owed him £1800). In
fact, Snider wanted the profits of Snider’s brains,
and 1 believe he got part of them. Now, a Mr,
Snyder turns up with his dynamite shell. What
bloodthirsty men these tailors must be. I be-
lieve the word meant something sncid (slang for
no-accouat). Let them invent as many devasta- J
,v? rs t hey like, they 11 never take you by storm
uke Schneider. By the way, is she alive ?
Yours, Hiram A biff.
SHREWDNESS & ABILITY.
Dr. Soule's American Hop Bitters so freely advertised
;n all the papers, secular and religious, are having a large
sale, and are supplanting all other medicines. There is
no denying the virtues of the Hop plant, and the pro-
prietors of these Bitters have shown great shrewdness
and ability in compounding a Bitters, whose virtues are
so palpable to every one’s observation —“ Examiner and
Chronicle.”
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
The great value of Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver
Oil with Hypopiiospiiites in Wasting Diseases is shown
by the accompanying statement from D. C. Freeman,
Sydney, Australia: “ Having been a great sufferer from
pulmonary attacks and gradually wasting away for the past
two years, it affords me great pleasure to testify that the
above medn me has given me great relief, and cheerfully
recommend it to all suffering in a similar way to myself.
In addition, I would say that it is very pleasant to take.”
Any Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can he only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling’ off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
E.C.ELEY
&
o
©
V
t:
rA
<b.
:
%
v
&
A
9
V
O
0
V
9>
*
£
s*
&
*
v-:
*
50
£
o
<3
V*
o
<c N
v
0
\
*
&
v*:
x>
M
*
390 a GEORGE S T
SYX3KT3S3Y.
FOR, SALE. —Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
The man who meditatively pulls his
moustache is wool-gathering.
John Haynes objects to people being
forced to go about with their pockets sewn up.
The Masterton (N.Z.) captain of the Sal-
vation Army has hired himself out as a draper’s
walking-advertisement.
•James Murray, who had been “having a
good time” at Burrowa (N.S.W.), started for
-Breakfast Creek with a bottle of grog in one
pocket and a bottle of carbolic acid in the other.
He seems to have mixed his drinks, for he died of
acid poisoning a few hours after. Moral: Never
mix.
Writes a Croydon (N.Q.) correspondent:
borne of the meetings here during the late
elections were really lively. Mr. Raffity, an Irish
gentleman from the Norman, came to speak on
behalf of the Liberal party, and said he would
answer any questions put to him after he had done
speaking, but the diggers wanted to ask them
first, so each time he went to speak they all
started singing. At last he agreed to hear their
questions. No. 1;“ If we elect one of your
party will he be in favour of inoculating the
prickly pear with Pasteur’s chicken cholera ? ’ No.
: ‘ A re you in favour of bringing the Chinese
under the Marsupials Act ? ’ No. 3: * Are you
in favour of the Government floating a shandygaff
spring, to be in full swing by the summer ? ’ Mr.
R. retired. * I don’t think that in 15 years hard
•Queensland experience I ever saw more drunks,
lights, and black eyes than on and after polling-day
—•in fact, every claim you go to has one hand with
-°? ls ace ‘ The main reason of the
M. llwraith party’s local defeat was that young
Hunter is the most popular man on the field.’ ”
FBVER in New South Wales is far less frequent among
the Colonists and Chinese than formerly. This is owing
to the discovery by them of the curative properties of
Freeman s Original Chlorodyne. This valuable medicine
checks the progress and rapidly cures all forms of Fevers
and Ague, so prevalent at certain seasons of the year in
many parts of New South Wales. By the older Colonists it
is regarded as a household remedy, and employers of
large bodies of workmen always keep a good stock of
Freeman’s Chlorodyne on their estates.—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “ Free-
man’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all Insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros .
and E. Prosser & Co.*
MAINE NEWS.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, which are advertised
m our columns, are a sure cure for ague, biliousness and
kidney complaints. Those who use them say they cannot
be too highly recommended. Those afflicted should give
them a fair trial, and will become thereby enthusias-
tic in the praise of their curative Portland
Argus.”
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 VIo.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest -
For 3 years .. 7 per cent. I For X year .. 6 per cent.
For 6 months i per cent. | For 3 months.. 3 per cent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Auction and
Private Contract.
Head Offices— lo, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. 0. NEILD, Manager.
TEA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
11
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
10:
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMa
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 9
The Best Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co..
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS, 9
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the 800 l Manufacturing Trade In aU detalle, Including Machine
Leathers, Ac. j and ot the following Special Lines I—PEEHLEgg GLOgg, BATIM POEiarf. VSwtt'mSVSmP
l»ltl • Tunnore Tonlo inrt Material, Inilrnli •(rrulnl on FownnraM* T'rio,». NISCIM-
Business Announcements.
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken tw«
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
Beneral Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
mg all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
.. suffering from Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
_P“ e 7» n^ 8 i aBB . two or three tlmes a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day
THEY PURIFY THEJBLOOD AND O VER*
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
for for wardlng me a bottle of your
Row s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
„ . M.R.C.S., England
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In recoin-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
Yours SUffBr from liver complaint to try them.—
_ O. R. UPJOHN. J.P,
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
Indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
oiuty, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
m™ v try HOW’S DANDELION
11 liiKa, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“I am glad of the opportunity to make known
mQualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BIiIEKS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
„ „ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
Messrs. Ed, Row and Company, Sydney,"
DOWS
H-embrocation
\f. \ISOLD
a EVERYWHERE
m
Bow’s Steana's Wins
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
Bow’s Steano’s Wine.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Read Certificate respecting its Purity.
“ Having carefully examined a bottle of Row s
Steane’s’ Wine, manufactured by Edward Row
and Company, I consider them a very wholesome
tonic, suitable for persons suffering from weak
digestion, being perfectly free from any injurious
chemicals, too often used in such preparations.
They should become a favourite drink in these
warm climates,
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, Analyst
“Sydney, December 23, 1881.”
B iw's Staane’s wine
has also weaned many persons from the excessive
use of ardent spirits.
Tnwic° TALLEHH .T™ 1 * flnd thiB newly-invented
T 9? IC i answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile Is unsur
TRY THEM,
Hotel keepers all keep
ROW'S ASSORTED BITTERS,
containing
ROW’S STEANH’S BITTERS.
ROW'S YOU’LL DO BITTERS
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS
BARON BERZELIUS BUOHU BITTER*
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
Solb Proprietors,
Edward How & Company (
«>. 15. if OEOROE STREET. SYDNEY.


Thousands Hastened to their Graves.
By replying on testimonials written in vivid
glowing language of some miraculous cures made
by some largely puffed doctor or patent medicine
has hastened thousands to their graves; the
readers having almost insane faith that the same
miracle will be performed on them, that these
testimonials mention, while the so called medicine
is all the time hastening them to their graves.
Although we have
Thousands upon Thousands S ! J
f testimonials of the most wonderful cures,
voluntarily sent us, we do not publish them, as
they do not make the cure. It is our medicine,
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters, that makes
the cures. It has never failed and never can.
We will give reference to any one for any disease
similar to their own if desired, or will refer to any
neighbor, as there is not a neighborhood in the
known world but can show its cures by Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters.
A losing Joke.
“ A prominent physician of Pittsburg said to a
lady patient who was complaining of her continued
ill-health, and of his inability to cure her, jokingly
said : ‘ Try Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters !
The lady took it in earnest and used the bitters,
from which she obtained permanent health. She
now laughed at the doctor for his joke, but he is
not so well pleased with it, as it cost him a good
patient.”
Fees of Doctors.
The fee of doctors at $3.00 a visit would tax a
man for a year, and in need of a daily visit, over
$l,OOO a year for medical attendance alone. And
one single bottle of Dr. Soule s American Hop
Bitters taken in time would save the $l,OOO and
all the year’s sickness.
Given up by the Doctors.
“ Is it possible that Mr. Godfrey is up and at
work, and cured by so simple a remedy ?
“ I assure you it is true that he is entirely cured,
and with nothing but Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters, and only ten days ago his doctors gave
him up and said he must die, from Kidney and
Liver trouble! ”
tgr None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Bewake of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.
THE LATEST FASHIONABLE AMUSEMENT
MPHOTOa
We recommend those desirous of obtaining lasting records of their Yachting Cruises, Boating Excur-
sions Cricket, Football and Lawn Tennis Matches, and other gatherings, to provide themselves
with one of our outfits, which will enable them to surround themselves with views of scenes and
places in which some of the most delightful hours of their lives have been spent.
v /■- mm-
■tiy.
k
■
u
Tf
tm
wvr
tr>
A
LADIES will find that, by learning how to photograph, they have obtained a most interesting and
engrossing amusement for their leisure hours. . . ,
By the DRY PLATE process, stained fingers and other unpleasantness is done away with, and a
child can carry the whole apparatus, and it is no longer necessary to take Dark ients or Chemicals
XjICIEiI'riSTB £3 CO.,
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabslh street, Brisbane.
Business Announcements.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints.
No experimenting; tio Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he under t kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this —whe n there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles la
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spbbr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
TATTERSALL’S
KOSSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
Town and Country Journal," also Brevities In
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery,
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawings.
GBD. 68D.68D.
SHIS FAMOUS AND FAYOUEIT3 BRAND
Of
BRIAR FIFES.
Still maintains its Prestige and standi pre-eminent amon
the hosts of other brands as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are prepared to enforce the Law againil
all persons imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
Ml OLARINOB-STREE7.
GtBD.
We have Large Shipments of this BRAND OF BRIAR
PIPES to hand and Regular Shipments coming forward
WHOLESALE ONLY.
BRUNTO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Wales,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street,
BRISBANE Edwabd Stbeet.
MELBOURNE Spenobb Stbeet.
£) R. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases; price, inoludlrg post-
age, 6d. in stamps. Consultation costa nothing,
and the Doctor will tell you at once whether youf
case is curable or not. Address—
ID IR, RICHARDS,
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
QIT T THIS OUT*.
“As I have said, the capitalists are just beginning
to find us out, and now is the time for those who
wish to be first. Nor is it to large capitalists only
that we offer a wide and profitable field. A large
capitalist may do well anywhere if he has the wit,
BET THERE ARE NOT MANY PARTS of the World which
hold out snch inducement to the small capital-
ist.” (Extract from Sir N. F. Broome’s speech on
West Australia.)
A grand investment is now offered to the Small
Capitalist in the
CARLTON ESTATE,
At Perth, the capital city of West Australia,
Large blocks, having from 280 ft. frontage, with
big depths, from £2O each. Ten per cent, deposit.
Balance extending over 3 years. Torrens’ Title.
Purchasers can pay off at any time, and receive
deeds (guaranteed at £2 ss. each) without delay.
The Carlton Estate, from its excellent position,
must greatly INCREASE in valuk. It is only if
miles from the city. The railway to Albany passes
by. Bayswater Station is handy, and the Estate
fronts the Government road from Perth to Guild-
ford. The land is high; suitable for either build-
ing or garden purposes. It is, indeed, the cheapest
estate yet placed on the market. Compare it with
others and judge. Government maps, drawn to
scale, showing the exact position of the property,
may be consulted at the office of the Company. A
few corner sites still available. Inquiry costs
nothing. On application marked plans, with
reliable information, will be forwarded to any
address. THE INTERCOLONIAL INVEST-
MENT COMPANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney. (Registered under the Companies’
Act.)
W. J. DOUGLAS, Secretary.
Brittenberg i ~c7C
• IMPORTERS, J
81 Clarence Street, Wynyarp Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings.
Aboriginalities.
A Jackaroo on a Northern cattle-station,
while out riding cn the run, came across an old
cow with a bone (which she had been chewing)
fast in her mouth. Turning to a darkey who
accompanied him he enquired what was the
matter. ‘ O him got it bone stuck in mouth ; die,
I believe ” “Could it not be taken out ?” asked
Jackaroo. “ Might,” was the rejoinder; Where-
upon tire new-chum made a resolve to attempt the
feat. Handing the reins to the darkey he made
his way towards the cow. “ No more tea without
milk in the dinner-camp,” thought he ; “ this poor
creature will always regard me as her saviour and
cotton to me like a dog.” Whether the cow’s
notions were the same is not known, but upon
witnessing the approach of a man arrayed in big
checks, she, after giving a few preliminary tosses
of her head and a low bellow or two, hastened to
meet him. The nigger’s warning cries reached
our hero too late. The cow had strength enough
left to overtake him, and hooking her well-
appointed horns in a convenient part of his attire,
she sent him several and a half feet on the road to
Kingdom Come. Then, not yet content, she
hooked him out of the mud again and played cat
and-mouse with him until her attention was
attracted by the now nearly white black. Leaving
her victim she proceeded to operate on the more
wily darkey, who, as she made for him, skipped
nimbly aside and dexterously catching her tail
and giving a sudden twitch, “ downed ” her; then
he extracted the bone and let her go. Gathering
up the fragments of the Jackaroo he placed them
under a log and made for home to acquaint the
super.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Not among the least
important of the active policeman's many sources
of emolument is his old uniform. When the shades
of night descend and his manly figure is no longer
the cynosure of every female eye, the energetic
trap dons himself in the garb supplied the year
before last. Then woe betide the “drunk” who
offers the least resistance, for on his arrival at the
station he will be charged with “ tarin me uni-
form.” It is said that some constables have been
compensated half-a-dozen times over for the
same old tunic, and on each successive occasion the
damage gets worse in the pro ratio of geometrical
progression. Yours, One W ho Has Been There.
History makes a great effort to repeat
itself. A N.S.W. up country paper states
“ When digging a hols recently on the Bathurst plains
near his residence, Mr. H. Thompson, of Brewongle, un-
earthed a fossil bone.”
We invite Mr. Thompson to take warning by the
fate of his namesake and keep clear of fossils. For,
according to Bret Harte’s pathet'c melody, it was
a Thompson who was slaughtered in the chair of
the institute on the Stanislaus that night when
“ Brown of Calaveras brought a lot of fossil bones
which he’d found within a tunnel near the tene-
ment of Jones.” Ancient bones are bad for the
Thompsons, and for a member of that venerable
race to fool with such things is an imbecile chal-
lenge to Providence to come outside and take its
coat off
“On and after 6th proximo,” says the
N.S.W. Government Gazette, “the post-office
at present known as ‘ Onebygamba ’ will bear the
designation of ‘ Carrington.’ ” Much thanks. But
why not simplify the matter by calling the whole
colony Carringtonia, or Smithville at once? There
are now in Australia 3 Carringtons, 14Newtowns,2
Croydons, 2 Eichmonds, 2Goulhurns, 2 Bathursts,
2 Peiths, 2 Wellingtons, 4 Fair-fields and so on ;
and the tangle that consequently results in postal
affairs is absolutely hideous. Besides, the notion
of calling towns after public men is absurd ; for
although a man may be a saint to day he may be a
mere member of Parliament to morrow, and the
people of the town called after him must feel
their ears dropping off through blushing every
time they are asked for their address. The men
of Parkes, for instance, must feel meaner than
scalded cats every time they head their letters,
and a disrated railway official, who happens to be
stationed at Sutherland, ought to be fit to kick
holes in the world whenever he hears the name of
that township bellowed out. In N.Z, a deal of
this difficulty is dodged by going in for sweetly
pretty native names such as “ Tarrangarangana-
COMING OUT OF THE “PUB.”
CHORUS OF CABMEN (on the other side of the way): “CAB, GENTLE-
MEN?”
BROWN: “NOW, DO WE LOOK AS BAD AS THAT?”
poocahhungamuri,” and the like. Australian
aboriginal names are certainly worthy of being
rescued from oblivion, and in cases like that of a
town called “ Cooreenyrangacoomboobilah, ” would
afford great joy to the soul of the telegraph clerks,
even if they had no other beneficial effect upon
the people.
One of Editor O’Kane’s correspondents
explains in the Northern Miner what he under-
stands by the term “Australian Protestant” in
the following breezy diction :
“ As ‘Disgusted Miner ’ seems a bit mixed as to who
Australian Protestant really is, and I being that happy
individual, I tell him straight, Australian Protestant is a
native of sunny N.S.W., Australia, and a devout Pro-
testant at that, of sober habits, clear, cool head, can beat
a dry upper either hand before, use a poker, always help
a falling man to his feet, a believer in truth, soorns a lie
and a liar, and can thrash as many prevaricating, de-
faming, mean, cunning, little tricks of ‘ an atomy,’ such
as ‘ Disgusted Miner ’ is, as would thatch hell a mile, and
please my pigmy friend. Read, absorb, and think, and
then go back to your own 1 level ’ and put in a hole, for
in the end, mentally and financially, it will pay you best.”
While the Normanton (Q.) telegraph was
being erected, a nigger who had never before seen
a telegraph-line, and thought a big fence was being
put up, remarked, pointing to the wire overhead,
“Pooh! you tink it bullock stop along that one
paddock ? My word you blenty blanky fool!”
*
Not long ago, in a N.S.W. up-country
court of Quarter Sessions, a young man was con-
victed, before a Judge who is well known to be a
“ hot member,” of obtaining money by false pre-
tences. When asked if he had any witnesses to
call as to character the prisoner promptly named
the Inspector of Police, who happened to be in
court. This functionary stated that he had positively
never heard of or seen the man before. i here .
said the prisoner, “Even the police dont know
me.” And His Honor was dismayed, and in his
perplexity registered the very lightest sentence
he could inflict I t’s not worth trying it on again,
however, with Judge —we forget his name.
* » *
How to do it. A condemned railway
1 sleeper is a capital post for a tehee. You get
“in ” with the contractor (half-a-pint of rum does
it). He condemns his subordinates’sleepers. They
will take anything for them. This is the plan
generally adopted by local preachers and Justices
of the Peace.
Daring the year ended 31st March last,
companies were floated in Victoria with an
aggregate nominal capital of 52 millions sterling.
According to the Economist, the whole of the
new companies and ventures put on the British
money market during last year only reached
£98,000,000.
There are times when the Sydney police-
man can be sarcastic as well as sleepy. A stranger
meeting Constable Z 1 the other day, enquired
where the office of the was. “Oi don’t
know for certain,” replied the intelligent officer,
“but there’s some kind of newspaper biziness
carried on in that red house opposite, and, no
doubt, they’ll be able to tell ye all about it there.”
So they ought to have been, for the “red house”
referred to happened to be the Waste Paper
Agency Co. ’s establishment.
TO WHISKY: AN AUSTRALIAN LOVE-
SONG.
(AEIRE Tuomson.)
O ! thou, whose tender, mellow hue
Expressive speaks the blend of love,
Soft and ethereal as the dew
In pensive shadows of the grove,
O ! mix thy fragrant soul with mine,
And let thy spirit burn my lips,
Let all thy fire one moment shine,
Then glide into serene eclipse.
Ah ! ’tis too much, I cannot bear
At once so soft, so warm a glow,
In pity let me drink thee, dear,
For, sweet, thy coyness pains me so.
And what avails it, love, to think
Of unpartaken ecstacy ?
Lay down thy life that I may drink,
And let me, whisky, die of thee !
TASMAN.


The Referee
Professor Jackson finds that the Yankee
fighters (like Burke here) decline to meet coloured
men. However, there is a strong reason apart
from colour, why the whites should decline to
fight Jackson. He thumps too hard.
• * *
Jackson is trying to get a match with a
coloured man. That he should be under the
necessity of doing this shows that all men are not
born equal in the U. S. Any more than all men
are equal in Australia, where the coloured man
has much trouble in finding an hotel to shelter
him.
* * *
That arch-humbug, Jack Burke, fought
still another draw last Monday, in Melbourne,
when opposed for eight rounds against the big
[PHOTO BY KERRY AND JONES.]
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FOOTBALL TEAM.
Queenslander, Slavin (“Queensberry” acting as
referee). Slavin is described as having the best
of the set-to, doing all the work, and several times
beating Burke on to the ropes. Burke was cer-
tainly giving away a lot of weight, but his alleged
reputation, which included the fighting of a draw
with the mighty Sullivan, should more than have
made up for the extra avoirdupois of a fighter of
Slavin’s calibre Taking a line of comparison,
Peter Jackson should be able to thrash the world,
Slavin would not have a thousand-to-one show
with Jackson, whilst he more than holds his own
with Burke, who, on paper, has met the best of
English and American boxers without defeat.
Blavin and Burke divided the gate-money, and we
infer that the men have an eye to a future meet-
ing at Exhibition time.
. * •
Bookmaker Joe Thompson is off to Europe
with his family, and has sold Don Juan House,
his Melbourne home, for £ll,OOO,
• • •
Rev. Editor Fitchett will be sorry for Joe
Thompson’s departure. That wicked bookmaker
used to furnish Melbourne D.T. with the only
« copy ” it ever printed which was of interest to
the unregenerate and ungodly.
• • •
In Tattersall’s sweeps, Sydney, thousands
of pounds must be paid over to fortunate investors,
yet the contribution-box in the bar of the hotel
where the cash is generally paid over recorded in
the month of June just five shillings and tenpence
in favour of Sydney Hospital. We must look
upon the odd coppers as some widow’s mite, for
surely no successful racing man would give his
charity or his conscience such a wrench as to be-
stow upon the sick and suffering the paltry bronze
coin found in the Infirmary totalisator.
A certain English amateur steeplechase
rider who is now touring “ the colonies ” for the
benefit of his health, was present at an Australian
meeting lately, and at his request some of the
officials took him down to the back of the course
to see the horses go over the jumps there. It was
near the end of the race and the horses were
blown, but the two leaders came at it in true Aus-
tralian style—as hard as they could lay legs to the
ground, and flew the jump - a good stiff fence —
almost in their stride. It turned the Englishman
dizzy. “By Jove!” he said, “ if that's the way
they go at their fences I don’t want any mounts
out here, thanks. Our fences are nominally
higher, but you can go through them ; there’s no
going through that jump. Besides, we go slow at
ours. Then they got a tape and found that one
horse had taken off 17ft. from the jump, and the
other 18ft. And the Englishman, as he wandered
homewards, repeated softly to himself: “Not
any Australian steeplechasing for me, thanks.”
At the first football-match played by the
English team in a certain colony, the gentleman
in charge of the scoring-board was evidently “a
mug.” He did not knoiv when either side scored,
and put an extra five on when one of the English-
men scored “a free ” A small boy in the crowd
hereupon called out, “Hi, mister! they’re not
a playin’ cricket.”
* * *
Things aren’t always what they seem. At
a Randwick race-meeting some time ago a turfite
was inveighing against the system of running
horses with very light weights. Just as he was in
the height of his harangue, a jockey went by—a
very small boy, thin-legged, with a babyish,
Sunday-school face and a general aspect of harm-
lessness. “ Look there, now,” said the sportsman,
“ what use would a snipe like that be at the end of
a race ? Why, he’d be all over the horse, and
wouldn’t have strength enough to pull his mount
together.” Then they followed the boy up and
saw him mount, and win the race after a most
masterly piece of riding, for the little, baby-faced
boy was Tommy Gorry, about the best light-
weight that ever crossed a horse.
* * •
According to the official record, the winner
of the recent Carington Handicap at Sydney must
be several yards better than even time. But
there is reason to doubt these phenomenal records.
Judging from the cases of Malone, Myers, Diddle,
Ball, and other runners who have performed in
both hemispheres, very few of our men are equal
to even time according to the Sheffield standard.
Our times are (like the 10 1-5 seconds for 100yds.
record with which English amateurs used, as a
matter of course, to be credited) very doubtful.
* * «
The Stanabury-Searle sculling contest will
be of interest, inasmuch as the winner may fairly
be looked to as the coming man, Kemp and
Hanlan are again matched for the championship
on Friday, September 28th, two hours after high
tide, which condition is supposed to favour the
Canadian.
t * t
The feature of Rosehill meeting last
Saturday was the riding of that clever amateur,
Mr. Acraman, who on Society and Festal re-
spectively appropriated both the hurdles and the
open Steeplechase.
* • *
Walter George has been defeated by Cum-
mings in a three-quarter-mile race in England.
George’s father (a chemist) recently died, and the
amateur’s training was broken into. The old man
also must have been an extraordinary runner in
his day ; the writer, who knew him well, remem-
bers that, although an alderman—an office not
suggestive of speed or stamina—he was a few
years ago able to creditably follow the Duke of
Beaufort’s hounds on foot.
• * *
One of the most valiantly and evenly-
contested events in the history of pugilism was
the recent fight near London between Alec.
Roberts and Jem. Hayes. For 54 rounds, occupy
ing Ih. 47min , the men fought with varying
prospects, until Hayes, unable longer to see,
gave up.
* * *
The Sydney University footballers con-
tinue victorious. Against Arfoma on Saturday,
they scored eight to nil. The Rosedales beat the
Wallaroos by four to nil. University and Rose-
dale are the only clubs unbeaten for the Gardiner
Cup, and their meeting on Saturday three weeks
should be the match of the season.
* * *
Mr. Oatley declines the honour of picking
the N.S.W. intercolonial eight. When the last
crew were picked, three men refused to row be-
cause a certain fourth had been very properly left
out. Whereupon the selection committee resigned,
and a fresh lot were put together, including the
“fourth,” who was placed stroke. In the race,
stroke caught a crab and utterly ruined whatever
chance the Sydney men might have had. No
wonder Mr. Oatley declines, &c.
• • •
Since 1876 no less than £42,000 of the
public money has been handed over by Parlia-
ment for the improvement of the N.S.W. Associa-
tion Cricket Ground, Sydney. This most lavish
and unjustifiable State patronage of sport perhaps
helps to explain, why it is that we turn out many
pugilists and no painters.
* • *
A professorship of Chinese is to be estab-
lished at Cambridge. We in Australia have
learnt our lesson.
* * *
It is a canon of decent journalism that a
newspaper man should not publish remarks on
affairs in which he has a private interest. It
would be well if the rule were applied to sport
which is closely allied to the betting-ring. A
libel-action in which th ; s point is said to be in-
volved is on the tapis in Sydney.
• * *
English Derby favourites have won 37
times •:ran second 24 times ; third, 15 times ; un-
placed, 32 times —out of 108 Derbies,
» ♦ »
A former Marquis, not the present Mar-
quis, of Queensberrv formulated the Queensberry
prize-ring rules. The most striking incident of
the present nobleman’s history was his rising up
in the stalls of a London theatre, a few years
back, to denounce one of Tennyson’s plays.
• * *
Our old friend Benzon, the “Jubilee
Juggins,” sat down to ecartk one afternoon in
London lately, and lost £27,000 right off the reel.
Before the sirie was finished he had won it all
back, and a hundred pounds to the good.
# • •
The Prince of Wales, if he has won
money on a race, tilts his hat over his eyebrows
and talks rapidly to any one who may be with
him. If he has lost he takes his hat off, wipes his
forehead with his handkerchief, and maintains a
severe silence.
« * •
The pugilist, more than any other man,
realises the evanescence of popularity. In his
well known work, “Modern Boxing,” “Pen-
dragon” gives a sad picture of the defeated
pugilist, bruised in body and crushed in spirit, yet
deserted in the ring by those who had treated him
as an idol that very morning. Sullivan was really
made a kind of hero by the Press, and now, be-
cause he has failed to defeat Mitchell, his former
admirers have not a good word to say for him.
Had he been actually beaten, it is safe to infer
that he would have been hounded out of America.
• * *
The name of Grace is not likely to die out
of cricket annals for some time to come. Not
only is W.G. playing up to his best days this
season, but his eldest brother, E. M., is making
big scores for a local club in Gloucestershire, while
the champion has a son who, though only 14 years
old, stands sft. 9in., and bids fair to follow his
sire in cricketing ability as he does in size.
• * *
The troubles of married life do not seem
to have annihilated our old friend Wood, the
bicyclist, who at latest had in England made a
gallant though unsuccessful struggle against his
old opponent, Howell, in a ten-miles’ race.
* * *
“ Frank Leleu, who died last month, was
a prince among English gamblers”—appears in the
paste and-scissors columns of a Melbourne paper
as an interesting item of news. Probably not 50
men in all Australia ever heard of Frank Leleu
before, but a few thousands may remember the
name of “ Mr, Eeadman ” as a prominent English
turfite of 20 years ago. “ Beadman ” was Leleu,
and he won, with a horse called Orion, the only
big stake ever run for on the Alexandra Palace
racecourse. That was at the inaugural meeting
in 1808, shortly after this same Orion had caused
Blue Gown’s Derby to be the fastest on English
record. For the rest, Leleu was a lame man with
a vile temper, and one of his daughters became
poor George Fordham’s second wife As regards
being a “ prince among gamblers ” —well, Leleu
fooled away at cards the income he derived from
fidi. He was a member of the Billingsgate Fish
Ring, which is such a curse to the poor of London.
Dr. Lang is at last to have a statue. Need
we say that Dan. O'Connor, M.P., is on the job ?
Messrs. William Ford & Co , of 4 Austra-
lia-street, Newtown. Sydney, the proprietors of
the “ Consumption Cure,” have received a gigantic
advertisement in Queensland. A live gentleman
residing at Ipswich announces in the Brisbane
Observer that he has been cured of consumption
by the use of Messrs. Ford's remedy, despite the
fact that the disease was in a very advanced stage
and had defied all ordinary treatment for more
than 12 months.
Dr. Carr, the phrenologist, once under ]
took to give a blind fold description of any skul
placed under his hands. The boys (it was at the
Towers) accordingly tied a handkerchief around
the doctor’s eyes, and having dressed up a pump-
kin with a light fringe of hair, tendered it to him
for manipulation. As soon as the phrenologist
placed his outstretched hands upon the vegetable,
he began, “Ladies and shentlemen, —The good
clergyman whose skull I am now feeling ”
