

a
LOOK OXTT POK
THE BULLETIN’S" ANTI-CHIN AM AN
A SPECIAL NUMBER. PROFUSELY ILLUTRATED.
Slh-CTjT-lng" TKTJcL'^r
*He leper must change his SPOTS.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please mail tkeir orders at once
EMPIRE HOTEL
Hu
OORNRR OF
**ter & Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Sfis_
JUlt, ®of n ~»uu»cea isearooma, x rivwuo buiw* .. , -
S» ’ sts firsb consideration, position moat central, Hydranl Lift for Guests and
1 perfect. Bathrooms on each floor. Letters and telegrams
Mention.
magnificent Family Hotel is constructed on the moat modem principles.
"W. of ri * v *nfcilated Bedrooms, Private Suites of Apartments, Best of Attendance,
kt. ’vfl N » . - _ 7 c. a 1 __ 1 1 TT 3 1 T Ifl
J. CURTIN, Proprietor
. ftowlandA’ „
MaeaAAarOil
«2j 'fenoifn * ' a — -"A
4s hha
vest# hail
renders the
and moustaches
jttaanlates the growth of wnisxere kiu .
as torming the basis ol a beautiful head ef hair, and
. esri,-*ify’ curly and glassy; it also
for children
GOLDEN COLOUR,
...as.* . s Ikaan asnaeiallv r> rm ift-MVI fOf th® UlS© (
-j 4, > And «{,..* nia 1
ti**« n< * Rouble That siae, 21s,
S?WLA«DS’ kaltdor
'»W hltifUd AHhluWn is a healing ana rein
tiuf' I'soda and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a
preparation for
, reaness and roughness
beautiful and delicate
healing and refreshing „V,.
redness and roughness
O «on.
AMDS' ODOfITQ whitens the teeth prevents end. *"ests ■£*»*
the g and siveß n delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask mywhere f r
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations und
* w ® *»d Recall ak mm
-JBixioxs Bmos., and &. Probbmb ft Co., Sfdne?,
% ® l6, *togin e» erjr f»m«t
® p n.Ls and ointment,
. V» tC 1 * Of to ‘be alrllUed world where
r< \. r,» mediolnei b*»e no* been
5 uk an ot *Uueirers f
Jh 6 %J? tl on j,toent* o( humanity their benefioen*
!w *u” S n 2 e f eoo K ni«ed.
for tbelr use in erer# dUeme.
. London*
n . ~ »*. v W w. -a *he Boxe» and
531 OKtafdU*iir<9»ti London. VM*
V;" IHPLOYMBSf iBBSBS
lNir ° RMAT I° N OFFICE.
tlcuclo searched toe.
Qt ' ilora supplied with tellable i
tr»„
®U*abech.scroeb,
c
$
vw
t MMMTCftS 99
fcw« ,p.~ rnkm M i'll.. 0
fimcAPsi
uactJ act sr
tfYONBV
BEACOfiSFIELD HOTEL
(CLOSE TO BEACH),
ST. KILDA, Melbourne,
m.
SSk.]
IT
nr? 7
r^«
tM^\D r .
PlJi
.J-t/sr
W- 11 1 .*”
E. A. COOPER,
PROPRIETMgg.
P. GIBBS, Manager.
BEAD
“The Lithgow Enterprise,
AND
“ Australian Land Nationalise!*.”
PUBLISHED AT LITHGOW, N.S.W., AND CONDUCTED BY
TO23E2ST 2T 1 : >- ;T T ,
IT Is the authorised organ of the Land Nationalisation Association of New South Wales. It 3
objeot is to firmly inaugurate In Australia Henry George’s great scheme of Land Reform—to do
for these colonies what the Standard is doing for America. It has already a more wide-spread
circulation than any oountry paper In the colony, and reaches nearly every part of New South Wales.
It Is smartly and fearlessly written, and every man who has the Interests of his fellow-men at heart
should get it, and induce Others to do so. Everybody interested in this movement who does not al-
ready belong to the Association is requested to write to the editor.
THE SUBSCRIPTION IS—l2s. PER'ANNUM.
~AGENTS WANTED. LIBERAL TERMS GtVEN. SEND FOR SPECIMEN COPIES.
m
fcPHW
In consequence of Imitations of THE WQRCES TEE SHIRE
SAUCE which are calculated m deaim the Public, Lea and Perrins
have to request that Purchasers m that the Lalri m mtf botfSs
bears their Signature thus *—>
Os
Without which m bottle of the original mWCESTERSBIRM
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRINS? Saute, and see Name an Label, ArtxM mmS
Stopper. Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors , Worcester; Crosse meed
Blackwell, London, (s'c,, (s"c; and by Grocers tend Oilmen throughout the World,
i m Wnoleticue , Agents i MoNTun'touji Joseph & Co., j David Cohkn & Co., Sydney.
The Bulletin


LEADING AND CHEAPEST HOUSE FOR
PIANOS* ORGANS* MUSIC*
and Musical Instruments of every description, is
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.
356 GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY, 3 DOOR FROM G.P.O.
ALL the best makers kept In stock, and every instrument guaranteed. The Iron-framed
“ VICTOR Piano excels all others, and is fully equal in ever? EITER Pianos tnd
Call and Inspect or send for Photo, and particulars. UEBEL AND LKCHLEIIKR Pianos, and
SSTKY and Co.’s American Organs are both marvels of cheapness.
EASIEST TIME PAYMENTB, FROM 20s. t MONTH.
sHomuiipj
amaoa
&SBt
iniirmiinTniitfn
qjsj
un-
il
svjv/jjv
jjDKntj
MMOIMJA AWlirj t MJJQ
IBS AUSTRALIAN BANKING COMPANY,
LIMITED,
TO-An OFFICE CORNER of PITT and
MARKET STREETS. SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
CAPITAL, £500,000 STERLING.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Hon. Francis Abigail,
M.L.A.
John Hurley, Esq., M.L. A.
J. F. Martin, Esq.
John Yann, Esq.
J. H. Nathan, Esq
John Scott, Esq.
Arnold Mathey, Esq.
She Bank transacts all usnal Banking Business, Current
Accounts opened, Bills Discounted, and makes Advance*
■pen all kinds of Commercial Securities. Agencies in Lon-
don and throughout the world. Overdrafts granted against
deposits of Deeds. Deposits received. Interest allowed: —
at call, 3 per cent.; 3 months, 4 per cent.; 6 months, 5 per
sent.; 12 months, 6 per cent. By order of the Board of
Directors. H. M'N AMARA, Secrerary.
THOS. BUUKLAND,
jKXKUra MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AG* Iff
Ohautxks Towbks,
Agent for Bober and Co., Engineers, Linoolni
„ „ Langland's Foundry Co., Melhonrni Fls
E. D. MILES,
MIMING AND COMMISSION AGEWS,
Mining Exchange.
CHARTERS TOWERS, QCBENSLAHL.
• s-
UAS
EKED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
gin four Umbrella Wrames ?•'
covered and »ocr
Fituoli re-lined and made nu
to New, ak
J, SULLIVAN’S,
5M Qeorae Street
Brickfield Hili : between
Liverpool and Bathurst Streets
Fararoli made to mateb tist
knmaf Repairs naaSUe • xaentrS
ALAN*B. BRIGHT,
SHAREBROKER,
CHARTERS TOWERS.
Millar, carter, and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agenfcß,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
Brisbane Office.—227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency,—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Oh ambers, Circular Quay. _ ,
Melbourne Agency.—T. H. Toung, Phoenix.
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Robert butcher » co
Have Removed their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
692 a GEORGESTREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool Streets.)
WINES SPIRITS, AND BEERS, in and out Oi
W ’ Bond, at LOWEST RATES.
Belle Vue Motel
baisbank.
liyHlH Parliament Houses. Botanical
and Queensland t£ab.'
FIRST-CLASS FAMILt BUT**..
ACCOMMODATION FOR'll
A Walter Mee* Bcerw Scaami..
Letters and telegrams please address pro
** l§6 °*' « M COLLINS.
HlfiH-OLABS DKNTISTRV j AT REVOBM PBIOKfi
completes FT
2
MARSHALL BRO
DENTISTS
135 ELIZABETH ST
jHnth pal&lraaly extmotefl nafler nitrous oxide
cm ' dell) All 11.
r B/tAfiCH.C£0#C£ Si $YM£Y
Palace Family Hotel,
Corner or Stanley and Melbourne Streets 11
SOUTH BRISBANE.
First-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the coolest and best ventilated
house in the oity.
DAVID LYONS, Proprietor.
s.
WALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Maker
896 Pitt-street.
• tV-Jv '
' ■
MM* Amt
1&> Art
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
o ft j-:'
HIGHEST DECREE OF MEHII
% *
T* n
H tv
ISTHEBESTINTHEWORLDf
NONE OTHER 6UT
WAUC H S
K CCE } V ill) Tm E tN f CRN At SON A l
PR IT.E MEDAL
ISAMUfACTURED BYJaWEsCMARNOU
Harbour S r Sronii
Sold by AH C§oc«n and Starttaptfl
•of^ydncy.
\ J£NQLIW tAYCSsBLV£tMO(//VrA/ML«>
BJ6JCEOE£Ja
JAY'S PRINCE OP WALE’S HOTEL,
ST. KILDA.
THIS first- class Hotel offers superior accommoda-
tion to visitors and residents, being in a healthy
and central position, fronting the Bay, near Es-
planade and Baths, and within five minutes’ walk
of the Bt. Hilda Railway Station Private suites
of apartments. Ladies' drawing-room. Gentlemen’s
smoking-room. Hot and cold baths without
extra oharge
SCHOOL OF ART HOTEL,
i MAOKAY.
UNSURPASSED accommodation for oommer-
olal travellers, and families.
FIRST-CLASS CHEF.
Buggy meets every steamer,
I make comfort of travellers a speoial study.
SAMPLE ROOMS.
A. V, ROBINSON,
Proprietor.
TOBACCO
K
at
DIXON & SONS
TOBAOOC WORKS,
S Y D'N R Y.
D'
IXSON 8c SONS’ CONQUEROR
not only manufactures MOBS
THAN ANT OTHER, but CONSUMES
BULK OF THE AMERICAN LEAF
’nto New South Wales, and henoe the P® 9
of their brands.
CONQUEROR, greater sale than any
Australia.
YANKEE DOODLE, SIR RODGER, C
gold leaf.
HIXSON’S CUT RUBY, ORIENTAL
CIGARETTES, DIXSON’S No 1 maolllD ®
10,000 per hour, the choicest Virg ®
aitr.fi fid* ™
and/Paris rice tissue,
retailers at Sd. per packet
size sold 1
10 cigar* 1 ® 1 '
MIHINGIEXCHANQE HOTEL,
ift s . 'GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
The GentbAt Hotel. Private Sitt Room,
Rendezvous for all partleß engaged In mining
business,
H. G. BAILES, Proprietor.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL,
{TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND, J
FIRST-CLASS Accommodation tor Commer-
cial Gentlemen and Families. Private sitting
rooms without extra oharge. Plunge and Shower
Bath. Billiards (Alcook’s). First-class ehtf.
Charges strlotoly moderate. Wines and spirits of
the best brands, Man meets every steamer,
HANRAN, Junb., Proprietor,
SAMUEL ALLEN & SONS,
Contracting Carriers,
[FORWARDING-AGENTS, mTT“'
fisaF Office: Townsville, B, Queensland.
vr " IMPORTANT_ NOTICE.
MR. BOLTON (ofthe flrm~~of LOWBT AND
Bolton) wishes to inform the numerous
Mends of the Firm and the travelling publio that
he has gone to Mount Morgan to take oharge of
the SUNBURST HOTEL, which will henceforth
be carried on under his personal supervision,
Sunburst Hotel, Mount Morgan, centrally situated,
and facing the celebrated Mountain. Persons visit-
ing the celebrated Mountain will find every comfort
and convenience to greet them on their arrival,
BILLIARD TABLE AND PIANO ON THE
PREMISES, also STABLING for the accommoda-
tion of Thirty Horses, and a good PADDOCK
within five minutes’ walk of the Hotel, Goaohbs
DAILT mOM AND TO ROCKHAMPTON.
Norn sub Address
MICHAEL BOLTON
(Of the Firm of Lowry at Bolton),
BURST MOTEL,
MOU2TC MORI*AS?,
Ora'
m
a
rjIHE REMINGTON TYPE-WRITER.
Saves labour, stationery, and time, writing much faster
than expert pen-men, and condensing matter to less than
one-half the space occupied by pen writing. Beautiful
copies may be taken in the usual manner in the letter-press.
Sold wholesale and retail by the sole agen ,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 Kent etreet.
M
;;o * S N U M E N T
in Granite, Marble, and Freestone,
. «< Iron Tomb Bailings
Designs'and Estimates forwarded on request.
J. CUMkINGHAIH,
Margaret-street, Wan yard-square, Sydney.
"IIjTE can recommend the Imperial Halr-Gut-
\f ting Saloon as the best In Brisbane.
Tobacco and cigars of the best brands. Address t
Temple Building, George-street, six doors from
Queens-street. A, COOPER, Proprietor.
(Next^ Royal Standard Theatre.)
Best kinds of Tobacco, Cigars and Pipes.
R. CLIFFORD,
OASTLEREAGH STREET,
The science of life,
Bt W. Knox Fabkiix, M.D.
A Book for young and old men. 900
bound In doth, and contains over 100 presorip]
tions. Price, post paid, 3s. 6d. Descriptive
sample free. Those suffering from Nervous ex
haustdon and Diseases should send at onoe for this
valuable work. Address J Doctor W. K,
Parker, Post Office Chambers, earner Bourks enfl
Nllsabsth Strwln. w
w
E CAN RECOMMEND
33- El XT GKE IST EPS
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSING SALOON
A the most centred and well appointed [of any In
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK
Frenoh and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites,
Note the Address —
06 ELIZABETH-STREET
(A few doors from G.P.0.),
Next to Colonial Bank,
MELBOURNE.
MOULTON’S PAIN ?
CURES AkL PAIN
The best known remedy for M
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TO ■/ g j*
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, s °T P R fI( S
and taken internally cures v o
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, a n °
Internal aches and pains.
d
a/* 9®** l I&ye
. I. MOULTON, son
JO DEN® AND ®
«***'
MORGAN HOTEL, QUBBtf
Under the distinguished patronag o
oellency Sir A. Musgrave, K.C.M.G*, I#lllJ gB.
dation for 60 visitors. Two-storey bui
the balconies a splendid view can b«
the celebrated mountain of gold, and
minutes’ walk of the company’s w °£rLnptK)J «
and mall coaches daily from Koo*®,-gjOflr
Klbra railway-stations. W, MON
prltor, of the firm of Monokton and c
&
MOUNT MOB^
QUEBHSLAHD TaHOHAI
20 BEDROOMS,
THIS Hotel has been beautifully Wj fjjj
la now ready for the reoeptW". flß t JJL
Every oomfort. Cellar stocked with jLgpr
only. Terms moderate. Mrs. HEISEIL
RM. R I
• (late of the Detective F ° rC^
fitntii Inquiry. Missing Friends*
Business Agency Offl oo *
«9 KOYAL ARCADE.
&g«wndert and wife deserters Sraeedi
attend I
fes
5,,:&;.-..a«3n!u»j wniuiirioß immsuiou. "’"inf •** v .
diverse, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, f
issslon and others. Copies of wills, certt“ WJ,
ssniage. or death, obtained In an| igrffHjk
Voat* find debts oolleoted. From B. • , fljjj j
jo 3hr Oeteotlve Foroe of New Bouth ,u
: '9W- Faolandt ard established agencies W
slob*, he »* in a poslMok tc oondaot all Inco 01
fJWSMtiws. and strictest scores?, and VT-,
- and to all business entrusted *o B V
He-vn
caMKs i
MACHINERY:
K.AI9
&.W
HARBNE
BNQINiS,
S9ILERB
POMPS;
•WITH ALL
NEWEST DESIGNS
HIGHEST FINISH
'■ AT ■
LOWEST GOST!
*L
A
/
LOCOMOTIVES JUGB,
ESTIMATED FOR
aiytoey •
m** «m siTßiii 1
m®
*SL
Jjp-
FaßSOlilPTj^t
he ?<mn& In the
Mil," Mi «*• spaed* cure Oi **
billfey *Bd Kindred Diseases, Jfco. .t &
bs«sfc will b* seat free. sealed. 10 \
ItHiyi, Address
«, wa.HU It CO., , ,
Sydney Pharm* 8
n Hanker-*** 8 ’
FITZROY
BAST STREET,
«T FIRST-CLASS FAMIL* ,
Plunge and Shower ®*V f » ™
Private Sitting Room, without 8 - 4
Rood Stabling. Every Aoooß*
JAS. WILLIAMSON


The Bulletin
vol 9 -No. 422
SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 1888.
Price. CM,
Our Federal Brother.
THE VOICE OF THE LEPER: "AH, MISSA LOBINSON, WHA' FO’ YOU WANTEE SHUT DOOKB? ME GOOD BLIT ISH CITIZN FROM HONG KONG. ME NAT'LIS'D
BLOTHER INGLISAMAN ALLEE SAME EULASIAN COMFOJITOR OF MISSA PARKES.


"THE BULLETIN."
The National Australian Newspaper.
PCGFEiwOBg l BULLETIN NEWSPAFKK 00.
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREKT, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALE
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(Payable In Advance, only).
Per Annum , H .*« .« £1 Os. Od.
Half-yearly »♦. .« 0 12s. Od.
Quarterly 0 6s. 6d.
Cheques Drafts, Ac., and all Business Communications to be
addressed to William Maoleod, Managing Director.
Literary communications to be addressed to J. F. Archibald
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office twenty shilling
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One-pound
Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you can have The
Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that city
The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely in the
Hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish to interfere.
THE BULLETIN.
SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 1888.
The Chinese freetrader.
The ever-rising tide of Chinese immigration has
at last brought the New South Wales Foreign-
trade party face to face with a problem which
promises favourably to undermine all their
cherished doctrines and to leave them adrift and
helpless on a trackless sea of theory. For nearly
30 years the Mongolian Question has been waiting
a solution, but the statesman who was prepared
to do more than tinker feebly with it has been
conspicuously wanting. The Chinese curse has
served so long as a rallying cry for politicians that
many would regret to part with the old, time-
worn war-whoop, and would find it a matter of no
email difficulty to supply its place. The moth-
eaten watchword, “ The Chinese must go,” has
done much good work at a multitude of elections,
but the men who depend most upon it are suffi-
ciently aware that when the Chinese have gone,
it will be impossible to find another political shib-
boleth which will go so far to supply the place of
brains, education, and common honesty, and so
the Asiatic still remains and is still preached
against and anathematised as of old. He
has been the mainstay o’ all soit3 and con-
ditions of demagogues, and the increase in
his numbers holds forth good promise that
he will fulfil the same mission for their sons and
grandsons for many years to come. The old
Chinese anathema is now undergoing the process
of being hashed up afresh, and Parkes, who has
found bread and cheese in so many other public
grievances, ha 3, in his desperation, taken up the
subiect of the obtrusive leper, but the result bids
fair to be the same as in many previous agitations.
If the Chinese curse proves a convenient political
weapon then the -Chinaman will remain till
Parkes is done with him; if, on the other hand, it
falls flat on the public ear, then it will drop with
a dull thud into the grave of oblivion to await the
next convenient resurrection. In either case the
Mongol is tolerably safe so long as the Frestrade
party remains in power. He cannot be expelled
without the utter annihilation of that cherished
creed, for the leper is part of the great doctrine
which Parkes cadged, without understanding it,
from Cobden ; and the fan-tan house and the
opium- den are built on the everlasting rock of
commercial freedom. Sir Henry himself, unless
all his latter-day theories are a hollow lie, holds a
brief for each Ah Sin who sleeps in a gin-case in
Lower George-street, Sydney, or Little Bourke-
street, Melbourne, Mr. Wise, as his devoted ad-
herent, is buttoner for the tribe of pak a-pu
sharp 3 ; and the whole party must either stand by
the Chinaman or fall with him and be over-
whelmed in the ruins of the shanty which Bung
Hi has built in the land of his exile.
* # *
The reason for this is sufficiently plain. The
Chinaman is the living embodiment of the Free-
trade theory, the unconscious, unassuming, yet
eloquent, symbol of a great political doctrine 1
Stolid and ignorant as he may be, the dull-minded
heathen who plods around with the “spling callot”
and the * ‘ lettucee ” is the outward and visible sign of
the boasted commercial freedom on which the
present New South Wales Ministry has traded so
long and so successfully. The ports of Australia,
according to Parkes, should be open to the com-
petition of all the world, and the Chinaman conies
to Australia and competes accordingly. Cheap
goods, in the words of the same apostle, are the
great want of this "Continent, and ao loDg as the
manufactured products of Britain and Germany
are lower in price than those of Australia they
must be admitted on the great commercial prin-
ciple which bids us buy in the cheapest market;
and the Mongolian slave learns this lesson, and by
dint of living upon rice in a dog-kennel he under-
sells alike the Briton and the German, and is con-
sequently more to be esteemed than either. Pro-
tection, in the gospel according to Parkes, is a
barbarous and futile attempt to keep up wages to
an unnatural figure instead of permitting them to
find their own natural level, and. the respon-
sive Mongol fixes the level at half-a-crown
per diem, and the white man who declines to ac-
cept this amount must starve so long as an Asiatic
can be found to fill his place in the great market
of labour. The ideal State, as Parkes declared a
hundred times during the last general election,
is that in which the Customs-house is utterly
abolished and Customs duties are unknown, and
the Chinese poll-tax is a Customs duty—a tariff
on leprosy, vice, and human degradation—and,
therofore, ranks among the imposts which must
be swept away before New South Wales can enter
upon the Golden Aga of industry in which every-
one is to be unemployed. Everywhere the China-
man is interwoven with the policy of Freotrc.de,
and when he lays a sacrilegious hand on the fel-
low exile ParkKs is sawing through the pillars ot
the tabernacle, and dragging it dowil upon his
own insolvent head.
♦ •
But the Chinaman in Australia is, after all,
only a secondary item in the Freetrade pro-
gramme. The Cheap and nasty Mongol has, it is
true, done much for the cause by reducing the
price of labour, but still he is only beginning to
mate himsolf felt. Under the present regime, no
white man can obtain work so long as a China-
man is unemployed, and as the Chinese increase
and multiply, the time comes nearer when no
white man will obtain work at all unless he
chooses to accept the ra l e of wages for which his
yellow competitor is prepared to labour, but even
this outlook is nothing compared to what lies
beyond. The cheap Mongol who harasses the
workmen of New South Wale 3 will shortly be
succeeded by a cheaper Mongol still; the ex-
patriated Chinaman who is willing to toil for 15s.
per week will be succeeded by the Chinaman at
home, who gladly accepts one-third of that
amount, and the competition of the thousands of
Asiatics who infest Australia will be lost amid
the competition of millions who swarm in the
Central Flowery Land. China is fast becoming a
great manufacturing country. Englishmen, guided
by the Freetrade axiom which bids them buy
everything—labour include!—in the cheapest
market, are establishing factories and teaching
the yellow artizams the secrets of their trades.
Australia itself i 3, more or less, educating
thousands of leprous aliens every year in
her arts and industries, and in a few years,
if Freetrade lasts so long, the ports of New
South Wales will be choked with products
of all descriptions, landed at half the cost of
similar goods produced by Chinese labour in
Australia. Free competition, according to Parkes
and his supporters, should be the sole factor
in fixing the rate of wages, and when
New South Wales begins to fe?l the full
pressure of the competition of 300,000,000
souls all ready and willing to labour for
a few pence daily then the white man's wages
must descend to the same figure or Protection
must come. Chinese imports are a danger ten-
fold greater than Chinese immigration in its worst
form, and so long as Asiatic goods find free access
to the ports of New i outh Males, Parkhs’ dia-
tribes against the presence of the aliens are a hol-
low mockery, as devoid of all substance as the
famous Kiama Ghost.
* * *
Even in the midst of his anathema at Camper-
down, Sir Henry paused to admit that the alter-
native lay between Protection and a Chinese in-
vasion, and deliberately and coldly the hollow-
hearted renegade dec ared his choice. “ I would
rather have a Chinaman than a rabid Protec-
tionist any day,” he declared, and if the daily
papers are to be believed the miserable audience
of Freetraders answered with “ cheers.” And
for once, and only once, there is no doubt that
Parkhs spoke the truth. The Chinaman ram-
pant is the banner of the party wh'ch insolently
declares itself to be that of “ commercial free-
dom,” and the leader of that party, in the fulness
of the bigoted ferocity, selfishness, and tyranny
which have marked every stage of his career,
openly announces that rather than the Calico
Jemmies who have politically bought him
should lore one cent of their profits, he is
prepared to see Australia overrun by the leprous
brotherhood of Ah Sin and Chow Lee. And,
indeed, Sir Henry’s choice could n:t well be
otherwise. The latter-day prophe ;of Freetrade
cannot grant Protection against Chinese labour
and Chinese goods without to utterly sacrificing
that gilded fiction which he terms his “ prin-
ciples ” that no Calico Jemmy would ever vote for
him again. Freetrade, as he has declared a hun-
dred times, means free competition and the free
interchange of commodities; and the Chinaman
is the apotheosis of free competition, and the
living embodiment of the principle which keeps
Parkes out of the Benevolent Asylum. If the
Mongol trader cannot come to New South Wales
fr.e, and trade freely within its borders, then
what, in the name of Eternal Truth, is the mean-
ing of Freetrade ?
* * *
Again Sir Henry speaks :
I have always done my utmost to keep this f fir country for
the people who come from the three kingdoms, and 1, more
than any other man, have resisted the influx of tin Chinese
into the country. Not that 1 join "in the senseless cry
against tbes9 people as being so very inferior to us. On the
contrary, I oppose them on account of their individual vir-
tues. They are a law-abiding, industrious, prudent,
plodding, careful people, and it is because th«y have these
qualities that I fear their introduction here, seeing that
behind them there are 400.000,000 of them
In the face of these words, we ask again : “ What
is Freeirade ?” According to Parkes’ own show-
ing, he objects to the Mongol—not on account of
his immorality and his filth, not on account of the
infection whioh clothes him like a garment of
curses, or the opium which he introduces to steal
away the white man’s brains, or the brothels into
which he lures children to their ruin, or the fan-
tan and pak-a pu dens where he defrauds and
plunders his victims; but the representative
Freetrader demands his expulsion in half-hearted
phrase because of the abilities which make
his competition felt in a land that takes free
competition for its wa'chword—because he is
eminently qualified to be a trader In the country
which, elected Parkes that he might make trade
free to all the world, Chinamen and every other
cheap-labour alien race included. Yet, if Free-
trade New South Wales is to be protected against
the Chinaman simply because he is a dangerous
rival, then it must likewise be protected against
the German and the Belgian who possess all the
virtues on account of which Parkes would drive
the yellow man into the sea and shut out the
100,000,000 competitors of the Central Flowery
Land ; and the Englishman and the Scotchman,
the American, the Frenchman, and the Italian,
must all go for the same reason, The Apostle of
Freetrade and of unlimited rivalry in the fields of
industry proposes at one fell swoop to shut out
the trade and the industries of one-third of the
entire human race, and when he advocates such
wholesale Protection as this there is no reason
why he should not strain his elastic principles a
little further and shut out the remaining two-
thirds of the world’s inhabitants as well.
* * *
But Parkes’ reasons grow even weaker as he
proceedsi
I wAnl to keep Australia for Englishmen and Scotihmen
ana Irishmen. I want the people to be so thoroughly on an
equality that they may all stand shoulder to shoulder as
Australian citizens; and one reason why I am opposed to
the introduction of the Chinese or any inferior race is that I
only want people here who can stand on one common ground
of equality. (Cheers.) When I nee a man advocating the
introduction of the Chinese I am always inclined to ask him
if he would like to have a Caiuaman to marry his daughter
(Hear, hear, and laughter.) I want no man here who cannot
enjoy our righti or intermarry with the rest of tha population.
Surely such Protection as this no man ever heard
of before. The Frenchman, the German, and the
American, According to PArices, are "not good
enough to tread Australian soil and to compete
with the Australian ia his own land, yet the prin-
cip’e to which the ancient political sham owes his
oleva*ion and almost his existence declares that
these same outcasts may compete with the Aus-
tralian to any extent in their own factories and
workshops. They may take the bread out of the
mouth of the colonial workman, hut they must
not come between the wind and his nobility ;
their goods are welcomed, but their presence Is
declared to b 8 intolerable ; the articles which they
make are sold in the colonial markets, but the
men who make them are so much lower aud
meaner than their productions that they are
warned off these shore?. They are to bo treated
as being on a level with the Chinaman who may
not marry our sisters and our daughters—and
here we pau-e to ask why in the name of
Free trad c the Mongol may not marry ParkEs'
aunt should he and she feel so inclined ? The
very essence of Freetrade is free competition ia
the marts of industry, and how can the competi-
tion, which is so commendable in the factory and
the workshop, become a thing to be avoided with
loathing at the altar ? Frery theory and axiom of
Freetrade declares that all the world -Chinamen
included—may straggle With the white Australian
for the wages on which his wife’s support depends,
and why, then, should all the world not compete
fairly and honestlyfor the possession of I he lady her-
self ? Let the Chinaman marry Parkes' maiden au at
if he and she are so inclined. Freetrade demands
that he should be at liberty to do so, and for vary
shame the Bmmmagen renegade da-e not turn
traitor so soon to his new faith.
* » *
I', is impossible for Parkes to head an anti-
Cainese crusade. His faith forbids him, even as
the hereditary creed of the pawnshop forbids the
Threeb ill Abigail to touch pork. The Freetrader
cannot aff jrd to establish Protection againßt the
Chinaman and his indust• ies ; the old Merged
curse has been merely resurrected as a possible
weapon in a future election ; “ the Chinese
must go” is the war-whoop of the future,
but the Chinese will not go so long as Parkes
can gain a single vote on this mrth-eaten
battle-cry, for the sufficient reason that when
they are gone the cry will have had its day
and its service will be ended. The New fc-'ou’h
Wales Freetrade Orangemen and the Mongol are
brothers by nature, and a yellow feeling makes
them wondrous kind. The yellow flag is a power
in the land, and under it 3 shelter the Asiatic has
come to stay. His house is built upon the rock of
Freetrade, and until Protection becomes the creed
of New South Wales his position is, at least,
theoretically, invulnerable. He is the emblem of
a boasted creed ; the outward symbol of the most
widely-advertised of modern shams ; the visible
image of a huge political lie ; and the divinity
which hedges him in is greater than that which
environs a king. Kaowing this, the Mongol is
content. -He has come to grow up with the coun-
try, and New South Wales must get rid of Ah
Sin and Ah Parkes together if the incubus is
ever to be really shaken off.
Speculative Profits.
Closely akin to the land question is that of
profit—we mean as regards a certain class of mer-
cantile and trafficking operations. The bull and
bear of the share markets are justly criticised as
suspicious characters, but the bull 3 and bears of
commerce are too commonly surrounded with a
halo of sanctity. These individuals do.not repre-
sent the genuine trading which consists in the dis-
tribution of the world’s supplies, and the profits
arising from which, like those of any less dis-
guised Btorage aud transport, or of production, are
in kind, if not always in amount, fair and equitable.
They, cn the other hand, rather obstruct than
facilitate the response to the world’s requirements,
by speculating, like the land-kings, in scarcity
values, and from their position, which gives them
power to work their will unrestrained except by
the conflicting interests of others of the same
genus, or by the depletion of the public upon
which they prey, they may well be said to gamble
at the general expense, with a suit of tramps con-
cealed in each sleeve.
-* # •
It has well been pointed out that periods of
great bankruptcies, though disastrous to indi-
viduals concerned in them, go hand-in-hand
with renewals of social freedom and prosperity,
simply because the public, being exhausted of
their funds, cannot pay the monopolists, who, in
turn, cannot pay their fellow-monopolists, and
thus the depleting process is temporarily stayed,
the money is indirectly returned to the people by
insolvent prices and other powerful influences,
and, in short, the machine has been scrawed up as
high as it will go, and has dropped down ready
for the screwing-up process to be commenced
over again. This fact alone should indicate one
of the fundamental errors of our social system.
* * *
As an illustration of the moral character of thin
kind of dealing, we will suppose the object of
traffic to be a loaf of bread. The profit made by
the individual baker is fair in kind, as being in
the nature of wages for his labour. So is that of
the master baker, although the division of that
profit afterwards into his share and that of his
employes may he open to question. So is that of
the storekeeper who procures bread and sells it to
his customers in the ordinary course of things.
But all these are profits (or indeterminate wages)
upon labour or care in some form for the benefit
of those who wish to consume bread. The profits
of which we speak in connection with the mercan-
tile world are, however, profits upon mere trans-
actions, or as between the immediate partios, a
price paid for the “right” of monopoly trans-
ferred, and as between them and the general
public, a price paid by the latter (ultimately) for
what the} ought to be paid instead of paying for
—the control by someone else of goods in course
of distribution, with a view to the party so
favoured making the public, who pay for their
privilege, pay also more for the goods, because
by reason of the privilege they are difficult to be
had. These profits on mere transactions may be
likened with perfect justness to keeping a six-
penny loaf from a hungry man until he will give a
shilling for it, or, at best, taking advantage.of
his hunger to obtain a shilling. •>
If the world’s wheat supply is defle'ent, the loss
in wheat falls upon the world. The mere difficulty
of procuring it causes it to be used lees freely.
The producer sustains a money loss by the non-
return of what he has invested. It is precious
little scarcity value that comes to Mm, although
he is the moat j uetly entitled to it on the mere
principle of making the product cover the cost.
But in the processes of distribution and the ex.
change of wheat for money, the wheat gets into
the hands of certain middlemen. What the pub-
lic lose in wheat is increased by the raising of
prices for monopoly value, so that they have to
use still less owing to the dearness and pay more
for that. In short, the loss which normally falls
Upon the world i« increased to the masses to give
a gain to the middlemen, The position is then this
—that, considering the wheat and money as inter-
changeable equivalents, these middlemen, when
harvests are small, get more wheat, counted in
money, than they would have if it were plenti-
ful ! The smaller the general loaf is the bigger
the slice they can cut off as their share !
• * *
The sum and ,substance of this “ great trading,
this “ mercantile occupation of the higher sort, ’
this anything bub what trading normally is' and
ought to be, and yet regarded with more respect
than it, what is it hut “I came in the way of
JoitES buying from Brown for a thousand pounds,
paid Brown his thousand or less for what I did
not want for the supply of my customers, if I havo
any, aad made Jones give mo five hundred extra
before I would let him have it. Jones will
have to get the five hundred out of the public,
and so I am being supported by the public for in-
(erfering with their getting their wants sup-
plied.” The amount of brain-power and other
work expended upon getting money by extortion,
nstead of getting it by applying the same labour
to some useful end for which the money could be
had in fair exchange, is simply appalling. Lost—
and worse than lost, destructive —to what an ex-
tent might it not advance the social world if but
applied to increasing the average store, instead of
lowering it by these private levies !
*
Fortunately the increased facilities for distribu*
tion will gradually throw up obstacles to such a
system. The duty of everyone with the true
principles of social right at heart is in the mean-
while to discountenance, by ever y means in his
power, traffic of this class, and for himself to re-
gard it with tha abhorrence due to its actual
character, so that he will endeavour to make his
living by production or—ia the true sense of the
words—legitimate trading, and no more con-
descend to the wiles of the Merchant Kings than
he would to the tricks of “bookmaking,” or the
profitable impostures of sham doctors and patent-
medicine quacks. The matter is one with which
the-State is almost powerless to deal, and the
education of the moral perceptions and inclina-
tions must be the ultimate remedy for the evil.
Protection and Land Nationalisation.
Tiin: Lithgow (N S.W.) Enterprise writes with-
sorrowful anger concerning the Bulletin’s views
on the dual subj act which forms the caption of
this article, Oar youthful ally in tha crusade
against landlordism has, for one day only, left off
smashing “the robber who takes all that is lefc,"
in order to do a tilt with
our noble selves. It is a regretful thing that such
a temporary estrangement should have occurred.
Had it nob been for Bulletin advocacy of
Georgian principles in the past, the cause would
not to-day have had an organ so able as the Lmi<
sow Enterprise, and the big chance is that it
would not have had any organ at all. And at
present the Sydney Herald and Telegraph are
not more in harmony in supporting land monopoly
than are the Enterprise and Bulletin in de-
nouncing it, The Li hgow paper posses ie3 tha
heart—the “heart alone which beats responsive
to our own”—aud therefore the present attack is
the more to be deplored and lamented. It
angers our ally that we should have st ited
the accomplishment of land nationalisation to be
yet afar off. And, in denial of th 9 assertion, #6
are reprovingly told, as a proof of the proximity
of such accomplishment, “ that no reform has
ever stirred up so much interested opposition,"
Precisely. And ‘it is the very fierceness and
strength of this “interested opposition” that we
fear as a barrier capable of resisting for a long
time the efforts of the reformers whose aim it is
to "burst land monopoly into more pieces than
there are threepences in a Cathedral collection-
plate. Moreover, the Enterprise scoffs at our
query as to tha fate of the working classes while
the struggle against monopoly is proceeding.
“ This implies,” we real, “that the world will
stand still until the issue is decided.” Not at all;
that i 8 nob any stiller than ab present. But, view-
ing tho forlorn condition of the masses now ex-
posed to the crushing iuiluonco of foreign compe-
tition, The Bulletin holds that, even supposing
Land Nationalisation to be capable of consumma-
tion by, say, 1898, it would yet be necessary to do
something to alleviate the misery of the masses in
the interim. Further, we are told that land-
owners, terrified by the spread of the Georgian
faith, will bo compelled, “for their own advan-
tage, to put their land to use.” Wo don't
seem to fully grasp the purpose of this statement.
If it means that 1 andownciT" would accept a less
rent for their land than cultivators would will'
ingly give, we have no hesitation in saying that
local landlords “ain’t built that way.” But, sup-
pose they did, the result would be to draw good
red gold from the proprietor’s coffers and put it
into the pocket of the tenant. This would be a
gratifying and beneficial reform in the matter of
wealth-distribution, but no greater sum total of
national wealth would be created. Wages would
receive more, rent would rocoive less; or rather


tha rent would be divided between landlord and
tenant. This has been done to a large extent in
Ireland, but we have never heard anyone contend
that the equitable measure in force there has been
directly productive of an accession to the stock of
tbo community’s wealth, except by reason of the
fact that the revenue whirh used to he spent in
Belgravia is now appropriated and retained in
t he land wherein it is produced. About two
columns further along in his article, our lovingly-
reproachful mentor takes eloquent exception to The
Bulletin’s assertion that were Australians to work
for 12 hours per day in place of eight, and for the
present day’s wage, the immediate necessity for
protection would disappear. “ The increase in
the hours of labour,” he says, “would simply
signify an addition to the numbers of the unem-
ployed.” On this point we are distinctly at issue,
for it seems certain beyond dispute, that if labour
in this country were £0 per cent, cheaper articles
could be produced at a very much cheaper rate ;
foreign competitors would lose a portion of the
overwhelming advantage now enjoyed, and the
number of new industries thus called into exis-
tence would cause a huge local demand for labour.
Although every worker would donearly 50per cent,
more per diem the increased demand for labour
would far more than counterbalance the increased
supply of work added to each man’s day. In
numerous classes of articles the difference be-
tween the cost of production in (say) England and
Australia is not more than 10 per cent., and if
labour were 50 per cant, cheaper it would be im-
possible to import such commodities as
cheaply as they could be locally produced.
Such an addition to Labour’s burden would
he equivalent to a mime were our community
to permit it, but that it would for a time banish
unemployment is demonstrably certain. Another
matter in which it is our sorrow to differ from the
Enterprise is as to the advisableness of dropping
Protection in order to devote all our energies to
the work of dynamiting land monopoly. This is
not solely a matter of strategy. Consideration for
the pressing necessities of the now-distressed
masses must be a primary work. They must be
protected as against Bung Hi and Co., else their
means of existence will become more obscure
than at present even. And strategy also demands
that Protection should be enacted with the least
possible delay. For Land Nationalisation will find
its chiefest champions in tho masses, and if they
are reduced to wretched dependence who shall
take their share of the coming attack on the
monopoly-priviPgei classes? And, besides, the
community now has become educated up to Pro-
tection, while the Evangel rf land reform is but
slowly carrying its influence through the country.
The “ interested opposition ” has not as yet ar-
rayed itself to do battle with principles which it
does not so far find it worth while to formally re-
cognise. And it is only by successive stages that
Land Nationalisation can be won. At first none but
the larger proprietors will oppose the movement,
but as it advances land-owners of lesser importance
will also array themselves against it, until at the
last every owner of a 20 by 40 allotmont will bring
his Partingtonian brcom to stem the tide cf
Georgian principle. Land Nationalisation shall
be made possible by aid of the power accruing to
independent wisely-protected workers ; without
hat aid its progress must bo slow, uncertain, and
ndeflnite.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Nation of Shopkeepers.
Napoleon I. spoke with the voice of prophecy
when he denounced his British enemies as a nation
of shopkeepers, and in the shopkeeping instincts
of the Englishman lie the ultimate ruin of his race.
The day has long since come in Britain when
wealth accumulates and men decay, and un-
happily the check which the accumulation of
wealth has received, of late years has done nothing
to retard the dry rot which is eating away the life
of the once sturdy Anglo-Saxon people.. Tlree-
quarters of a century of prosperity has almost
utterly wiped out the hardiest portion of the
nation, and the past few years of disaster and
poverty have only accelerated the process of
extinction. Since the days of the Napoleonic
wars the peasantry of the three kingdoms the
section which supplied the vast armies that did
and suffered so much in the great Peninsular
struggle—have been replaced by a horde of knock-
kneed, attenuated men, who deteriorate in the
atmosphere of overgrown cities, and the agricul-
tural districts are fast degenerating into a tangled
wilderness. The Highlands of Scotland- erstwhile
the home of the bravest and hardiest men who
ever breathed —have poured their population into
the cities of the Lowlands, and from them the
Celts have drifted away to foreign lands.
They have been driven by thousands from
their homes, and their farms have been
turned into grouse moors, on which the
vulgar Smiths and Robinsons of the Stock
Exchange, the pot-bellied money-getters whose
patriotism is measured by commission and the
state of the financial market, roam about in ridi-
culous garments and make uncouth efforts to
shoot birds ; and the able-bodied inhabitants of
these once-teeming lands now number little
more than the soldiers whom they sent to
Waterloo. The Highland regiments of the pre-
sent day-are filled with weedy youths picked up in
the slums of Glasgow, and the men, who were once
the main defence of their country, are gone for
ever. The warlike peasants of Ireland have been
weeded out till the entire population of the island
is little more than half its former number, and
still the Government watches the process of
national decay unmoved, and advises the scanty
remnant of the nation’s life-blood to migrate, and
leave Britain to her fate. When the Crofters of
Lewis appealed recently to the “ blue-bloc ded ”
female who professes to own their native
island, and asked for some concession to enable
them to live in the land of their valiant fathers,
she replied that they should go abroad and abandon
their empty country to the kites and crows, and
when the Tory Government was invited to inter-
pose it replied through the mouth of Butcher
Balfour, the Chief Secretary for Ireland,
that the only remedy for the evils under
which the impoverished Celts laboured was
emigration, and that they should use their strong
arms to enrich and defend some foreign land. In
this peculiar madness Britain stands solitary
among the nations of the earth. She alone en-
deavours to get rid of her defenders, and seeks,
by sending away her hardy peasantry, to turn
herself into a nation of clerks and shopkeepers
and bowed-down, spirit-broken factory operatives.
Not only in the mother country does wealth accu-
mulate while men decay, but the process of decay
is urged on by the Legislature of the nation, and
the producers are driven out to make room for the
non-producers—the agriculturists are expelled by
the greasy traders, and the mongrel race of stock-
brokers and jobbers. London, where the impove-
rished blood of the citizens was formerly recruited
from the cart-horse and the plough, is now overrun
by thieving Greeks from the Levant, and by German
and Hebrew adventurers, and a nondescript race
is arising to succeed the men of the mountains
who onco fought Britain’s battles so success-
fully against the world. The mother country
offers a premium for national decay, and sedul-
ously cultivates the dry-rot of greed which makes
money take the place of men and which crowds
the sinewy peasant out of the land to make room
for the stunted cottcn-spinner and his lazy master,
and as she sows the wind so Ehe will reap the
whirlwind. The gradual extinction of the pro-
ducing classes of Britain must inevitably end in
the bottomless pit of national ruin. There is not
room in this world of strife and aggression for a
nation of shopkeepers.
i Hand red v. Three Millions.
Life, an English Tory organ, run by a grovelliflg
German, and not unfrequently quoted by the
ARGCS correspondent, thinks that “ skilly and a
plank bed, relieved by oakum-picking, are excel-
lent things for curing Socialistic tendencies,” and
wants to have them prescribed more freely for
that complaint. It doesn’t sesm to think, how-
ever, that the same thing would suit a bloated
Tory who enjoys annually an income equal to the
wages of 8000 workmen each with a wife and a
family of, say, three children—in other words,
who absorbs the means of keeping 40,000 people
from starvation, and does so simply because a
villainous old thief somewhere far back stole the
inheritance of the nation and kept it. There are
plenty of such aristocrats in England, but skilly
and oakum-picking are not in their line. The
Duke of Westminster, for instance, enjoys a re-
venue of some £400,000 a year, mostly unearned
increment, for which he neither toils nor spins
This amount, derived chiefly from ground-rents in
London, is constantly increasing. In sharp con-
trast to him is the labourer whoae wage 3 in times
of prosperity seldom exceed 20s. weekly, and who
now earns perhaps a fourth of that sum, who
would think himself rich if his paltry £52 per
annum could only be made secure against the
fluctuations of the labour-market, and who, when
Fortune smiles on him, contrives somehow to keep
a family—which, by the irony of fate, is generally
a large one —on bis pittance in tolerable content-
ment. The incomes of a hundred of the wealthiest
landowners—or land-thieves—in England would
almost extinguish the present sufferings of this
class, and would restore to nearly every one of
the swarming, starving unemployed hi 3 full rate
of wages; the confiscation of a hundred great
estates, stolen centuries ago by force and fraud,
would wipe out hunger and famine, and stay the
anguish of a whole nation; the abolition of a
hundred titled drones would raise some
three million men, women, and children
from the depths of abject misery to
what they would regard as comfort and
happiness, but the prescription instead is skilly
and a plank bed and oakum-picking, and as the
nation endures all this, what wonder that curses
should be heaped in millions on the heads of those
whose rapacity has doomed a whole people to
such untold sorrow ? Life is a worthy supporter
of this worthy class ; it is the organ of bigotry
and Tory greed, run by a Dutch German, the
descendant of a bottle-gatherer; and of this
ignoble defender of an ignoble faction it can only
be said that the cause and the advocate are de-
serving of each other.
4
The Newtown Election.
The election which took placi last Saturday, at
Newtown, according to the showing of the
Foreign-Traders themselves, furnishes a melan-
choly pro if of the decline of the shoddy cause in
New South Wales. Some three weeks ago the
electorate was polled on the question of Protection
for lc cal industries v. Protection for the English-
man, the German, and the Mongol, alias Free-
trade, and the former cause scored 1809 votes
.against some 1200 a year previously, thereby
showing that 12 months of Freetrade had driven
600 electors into the opposite camp. The victory
of the Foreign-trade faction was almost as dismal
as a defeat, so tremendous was the falling off in
their roll-call, but the importers and their satel-
lites consoled themselves by the oft-repeated
fiction that the Protectionists had voted to the
last man, while only a handful of the Foreign
trade party had gone to the poll. “It was known
that every Protectionist vote in the electorate
would be recorded at least once, and a glance at
the number got together proves that this was
done,” said Sydney D.T. oa the morning after the
battle, and the other organs of Chinese industry
followed in the same groove, and sounded the tom-
tom of joy over their success. But last Saturday
the Freetraders put forth all their strength to crash
for ever the hydra-headed monster of Protection,
and, instead of rolling up in thousands to whoop for
leprosy and shoddy, they showed a total of only
174 votes more than at the previous contest,
while the Protect! mists, who, according to the
Freetrade organs, had polled every available man
three weeks before, scored an advance of 108 on
their former figures Either, therefore, the oft-
repeated assertion of the Dead-House party was
an unblushing falsehood, or else the national
cause has gained in this one electorate an acces-
sion of 108 converts in the space of 23 days. In
the latter case it might be worth while for Parkes
to figure oub in pencil on the back of one of Mac-
namara’s letters about the lease which he paid
Sir Henry for, and which he is unable to get, how
long it will take for Protection to score a solid
majority throughout New South Wales, and
Francis Abigail might kindly check the calcula-
tion on the fly-leaf of that unpublished report
about the morals of his mysterious “bank.” The
only substantial consolation now left to the New-
town Freetrader lies in the repetition of the old
garish libel that the Protectionist muster was
enhanced by double-voting and personation, and
that the dead were resurrected to vote for Smith.
But, somehow, people have ceased to put much
faith in this hoary departure from the truth. The
same moth-eaten tale did some good ser-
vice at the recent contest at Paddington, but
when put to the test the frauds proved to
be sole'y on the side of the Free trade party, and
the Protectionist majority was increased to nearly
three times its former dimensions. The reward
of £5 which Abigail offered, at Newtown, for the
arrest of one of bis enemies in the act of persona-
tion still remains unclaimed, and when an indig-
nant e’ector openly accused a member of Mr.
A bbott's committee of having rolled up 80 sham
votes, at a cost of 10s. a-piece, it was thought
best to let the accusation pass in silence. Even
the Escaped Haynes did not think it safe to de-
mand an enquiry end a great, overgrown libel
action, though he wrote to the D.T., with his cus-
tomary vim, to state that
The men who sre urgiDg this country to Protection are
mostly strangers— half of them are Victorians, and not a
handful of Australians are to be found among them. Few of
hem have ever set foot outside Sydney.
Parkes himself confined his efforts on behalf cf
his faithful follower to gsneral abuse and the
declaration that he never could understand Pro-
tection. Figures, however, show that there are
in Newtown 700 more men who can understand
the creed which Sir Henry himself used to follow
without comprehending it than there were 12
months ego, and it remains to be seen whether
these 700 are all wrong, and the dotard who is
paid for being too dense to know anything about
their arguments alone is right.
♦
riic local Option Fizzle.
In common charity members of the community
should be3tow whatever compassion they may be
able to produce upon the Local Optionists of New
S.uth Wales. These energetic and verbose en-
thusiasts have made so much noise recently as
to deceive themselves into the belief that they
are a numerically important section cf the people.
They persuaded Mr. E. J. H. Knapp, that widely
self-advertised phi’authropist, to this same belief,
and t he result was that he went within an ace of
subscribing £lO to the national shortage. As it
is, he ha 3 since his magnificent defeat had some
occupation for his spare moments, trying to per-
suade some of his deluders into paying up the
shortage of £2OO or so which his electioneering
expenses left as a memorial of his adventurousness
in coming forward. He seems to have thought that
the Local Option vote was strong enough to make
him M.P., but voters generally used whatever
Local Option they had on hand to keep him steady
on an emphatically back seat. And now that the
Local Option vote has been taken on the question
of public-houses, it has been manifested that the
number of adherents of the principle who thins
their faith vror h the small trouble of voting for,
is absurdly unimportant. The enormous deputa-
tions which assemble occasionally to worry
Ministers of the Crown with dog-eared arguments
and seeond-hand statistics of the mioeene period,
must comprise most of the iank-and-flle, as well
as all the leaders of the anti-liquor agitation. If
it is as true as the hydropathic politicians aver,
that 90 members of the New South Wales As-
sembly are in favour Of Local Option, the members
of that organisation must be just about the best-
represented men in the community. “Every
man his own representative ” must be the pre-
vailing rule among the cold-water-cure political
party. That is if the microscopically small figures
credited to Local Option in the recent New South
Wales ballot is any indication of the number of
adherents to be credited ta the cause. There is
one consideration which must be accorded to these
romantic reformers, and that is the state of
weather prevailing when the vote was re-
corded, Heat such as that then prevailing is a
sore test of teetotalism. When a man carries
in the throat of him a rebellious thirst which it is
mere mockery to attempt to assuage with tea, his
convictions on the liquor question are apt to
undergo a temporary but, radical change. The
blue ribbon must be kept in a cool place if its
presence is ti inspire the advocates of salvation
by lemon-squash with genuine and permanent en-
thusiasm. The 90 Parliamentary advocates of
Local Option would do well to pais an amending
Act directing that the annual vote shall be taken
when tte thermometer is under 80 and over 60 in
the shade. Then their evangel may be effectively
propped up by the votes of the faiihful, who now
find their enthusiasm scorched to a moral cinder
by the backsliding torridness of February heat.
,
When the Milburn Creek swindle was before
the New South Wales Parliament some years ago,
and the vote for that famous wild-cat fraud
seemed in danger, Parkes announced that either
the money must he forthcoming or he would
resign. The money was forthcoming. Last week
that other and still greater fraud, the Centennial
Dead-house, was tottering on the verge of
oblivion, and Sir Henry rose on his hind legs and
said sternly that unless the £300,000 which is
wanted for the erec ion of his great cold meat
show was voti d out of the scanty funds of a semi-
insolvent colony, he wou'd appear no more as
Premier. The money turned up in this ease also.
Same old Parkes. No one ever knew Parkes to
resign upon a principle, but he is always prepared
to offer himself up as a burnt sacrifice on the
altar r t his country rather than a daylight politi-
cal robbery should mis 3 fire.
♦
Sir Henry Parkes last week addressed an
earnest appeal to the electors of Newtown, and
urged them not to vote for the party of “ deserters
and turncoats.” This means, of course, that they
are not to vote for Parkes, who is himself a
turncoat Protectionist; nor for Three-ball Abi-
gail, who is also a deserter from Protection ; nor
for Clarke, G arrett, Sdtherland, or Roberts,
who are turncoats everyone from the same cause ;
nor for Mitchell, the Foreign-trade candidate,
who pose 3 as a supporter of labour, and who, all
the same, assisted the owners of the Zealandia
against their white employes when the latter
protested against the Chinese crews by which the
Pacific steamers were manned. It is an eloquent
warning also to kesp clear in future of Abbott,
whom the Newtown electors returned only a few
weeks ago, and who stated in the Assembly that
he was opposed to the scheme for fooling away
half a million on a Lead House for people who
had been of no account when they were living,
but that he meant to vote for it at Parkes' bid-
ding, all the same ; and it is a definite hint to
extinguish the Escaped Haynes, who for years
wrote down Parkes as the lowest, meanest,
and narrowest of human beings, and then»
turned his coat and grovelled at the feet of
the man who said he didn’t want either his sup-
port or his acquaintance. Further, it is rough on
O’Connor, who has always advocated Protection,
though he votes for Parkes and Foreign-trade ;
and it should serve as a warning to the people of
the adjacent electorate of Redfern who, if they
follow the advice thus given, will ask for the
resignation of the renegade fcCHEY who turned
Lis coat at last election and is preparing to do it
again at an early date. Parkes’ observation is
also a nasty jar to most of the other members of
his party, who follow him on the principle of
howling for the dog that is uppermost, and a few
more such appeals would stand the great Foreign-
trade faction on its head for good.
♦
“ Accept my thanks for clearing away the futile
buzzing of the Victorian colony of insects which
now infest King-street, 1 ’ writes the courteous Sir
John Robertson in a recent issue of Sydney
Evening News. 1 his remark is apropos of the
Sydney D T.’s criticisms upon John’s abusive
letter on the general damnableness of everything
on the south side of the Murray and the heavenly
description of everything north of that river,
and having thus cleared the ground the old
gentleman once more wades in. John’s pre-
sent object is evidently to promote a war
between New South Wales and Victoria, and
his whole great vocabulary of slang is taxed
to the uttermost for that end. The old
prophet’s cuss dictionary is one of the largest on
record, and, if it is possible to start hostilities
upon the strength of a sublime flow of language*
the venerable Billingsgater will trample in gore
at an early date. At present he has the cordial
support of the E. News in his undertaking, and
Alfred Bennett whoops up the public ani-
mosity, but Alfred’s support is mainly a matter
of stomach. He is privileged to lunch every day
at the Reform Club, Sydney, where Sir John
Robertson is king and drivels in the corner and
curses everything from Sheol to breakfast and
back again, and the honour of associating with
this great man is cheaply purchased by allowing
him to curvet in his wrath over the pages of the
News, If Alfred Bennett, Esq., lunched
somewhere else, the News would be run in the
interests of peace and good-fellowship, and old
John’s curse would have to be inserted at adver-
tising rates. It is thus that history is made.
♦
It is now a dead certainty that Mr. C. A. Good
cnAP, the present Commissioner of Railways, wi 1
be chairman of the new New South Wales Rail-
way Board. This may or may not be all very well;
anyhow, it cannot be denied that Mr. Goodchap
is a man of brains and experience. But what can
be said of the proposed appointment, as his col-
leagues, of Messrs. Sydney Smith and Jacob
Garrard ? Mr. Smith is a legislative donkey
who has always brayed to the order of hia
Balaam ; while Mr. Garrard, though he may be*
a decent tradesman, and well worth 15s. a dap
while working at his handicraft, ha 3 been a dis-
mal failure in the field of politics, where his only
distinguishing features have been a readiness to.
shear himself when the wind blew too warm for
his alleged principles, and a first-class stock of
cast-iron cheek. The appointment of two such,
persona to help control scores of millions of pro-
perty will be the foulest job ever perpetrated in
Australian politics,
♦
That awfully moral Premier who closed the
Sydney theatres on Sunday in the interests of re-
ligion, and the rising generation, and who is sup-
posed by the Sabbatarian party to scan the Sun-
day concerts programmes every Saturday in order
that nothing demoralising shall be presented to
the public, ought to see how much the tone of the
theatre is lowered on Sundays since he drove the.
Secularists out of it. Serio-comic speeches are,
made, comic songs sung, and repartee and banana?
skins pass freely backward and forward between,
stage, and gallery. Finally, the infuriated audience
demands its money back, and chases the manager
round the neighbouring slums in a vain attempt
to reo iver. Premier Parke3’ policy always has
an elevating effect on the community. So has
back-blocks rum.
+
A great fuss is being made about the erection of
dwelling-houses on the tenement system for the
Sydney working men. In the Australian climate
these huge barracks would be hells on earth.
What our workman wants, and is entitled to, and
will have in the long run, is a detached cottage
with an attached piece of land. Fancy an Aus-
tralian working man tramping up four or five
flights of stairs on his way to bed ! Fancy the
atmosphere of such a menagerie, the smells of 50
dinners, some hundreds of dirty pairs of boots,
of soiled clothes, of gutter-gambling children !
Faugh ! Tenements for working men 2 So Eng-
lish, you know. Just throw us in a poorhouse,
and a hereditary aristocracy, and then it will be
time for the worker to enquire about the longitude
of some other “ paradise for the working man.”
A New Soag to an Old Air.
(Inspired.)
To the West! To the West!
To the land where the free-
Selector will soon
Find himself op a tree ;
Where the squatter asserts
His broad acres don’t pay—
Poor fellow! He’s always
Been had on that lay.
He swears that his land
Is worth nothing, or less ;
That it gets the poor pioneer
Into a mess
With bankers and others,
Who want cent per cent
For advancing that nominal
Pepper corn rent.
Yet, bad as the soil Is
Ard trying the clime,
The squatters don’t all seem
Quite knocked out of time ;
They gallantly stick >m i
To their ground, as before,
And say their salvation
Depends upon “ more. 1 '
Frcm the West! From the West!
Where the lftf d of the free-
And-easy develope3
Fast into the spree,
Came back the brave Minister!
With the straight tip im
That to double her burden
Is to save'the ship.


LOOK OUT FOB
“THE BULLETIN'S" ANTI-CHINAMAN.
A SPECIAL NUMBER.
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED.
SHOWING WHY
THE LEPER MUST CHANGE HIS SPOTS.
To ensure supply, distant agents will please
mail their orders at once,
PRICE—SIXPENCE.
HISTORY OF BOTANY BAY.
Bub the troops did not march until John
Macarthur again came on the scene. Thor gh
Major Johnstone was too ill to write to the
Governor, he v*rote an order to the gaoler at
Sydney, bidding him to deliver up the body of
that troubles me Individual, and to “fail not, as
you will answer the same at jour peril 1” When
the gaoler received that hint he ie|eased Mr.
Macarthur, who joined the officers in time to
receive the Major when he came to town. o■
thing could be done without John Macarthur.
He drew up a requisition to Johnstone, in which
he said that “the present alarming state of this
colony meaning, doubtless, of Mr. John Mac
arthur—“ induces ns most earnestly to implore
you instantly to place Governor Bligh under
arrest, and to assume the control of the colony.”
The hollowness of this artifice will be apparent
when lb is remembered that Macarthur was re
leased from prison by Johnstone so that this im-
pudent lie might be concocted in time. That the
officers fully understood the lawlessness of their
action is evident from what followed: “We
pledge ourselves, at a moment of less agitation, to
come forward to support the measure with onr
fortunes and our lives.” It is quite needless to
add, as we shall presently see, that they never did
anything of the kind.
* * *
Then the Major wrote to Bligh and lightly
told him he was called upon to execute a most
painful duty. “ You are charged,” he said, by
the respectable inhabitants with crimes that render
you unfit to exercise the supreme authority
another moment in the colony ;” and went on to
add, “ I therefore require you, in His Majesty’s
sacred name, to resign your authority, and to sub-
mit to be arrested, which I hereby place you
under by the advice of all my officers, and by the
advice of every respectable inhabitant of the
town of Sydney.” The tone and style of this
precious document are so much like those of the
letters of Mr. Macarthur, that the suspicion of
his having drafted it at onc3 suggests itself ; few
men in the colony at that time had such a facile
gift of lying as he possessed. We have progressed
since, however.
• * *
lb was about 9 o’clock in the evening
when the soldiers marched up to the cottage iu
Bligh-street which served as Government House.
Guards had been placed on the road to Parra
matta and elsewhere, and no one was allowed to
pass. Rum had evidently'been served out to the
men, as many of the soldiers were drunk. “ Three
hundred men under martial law loaded with
ball,” as Bligh characters ically expresses it,
formed the party, and, on arriving at Govern-
ment House, these braves, flushed with patriotism
and rum, were met at the gate by the Governor’s
daughter, who tried to arrest their career cf
glory with her parasol. The Corps rallied gal-
lantly to the charge, however, and, after a spirited
attack the storming-party succeeded in effecting
an entrance. Lieutenant Bell was on duty as
guard, and when he saw his accomplices approach-
ing he ordered his men to prime and load, and
then joined the marauding gang. He was after-
wards a ncminee member of the Legislative
Council of the colony.
« * *
Biigh had a number of the magistrates of
the colony at dinner when this Irruption of rum-
flushed ruffianism took place and interrupted
the jroceedings. The formal notice, signed by
Major Johnstone, was merely a blind, intended to
give his aotion an appearance of fair seeming in
the event of future enquiries being mad?. The
only intimation Bligh received was the approach
of the Corps, as he wrote, “ with colours spread,
and playing the ‘British Grenadiers.’” Bligh
thus describes what happened next: “I had just
time to call to my orderly sergeant to have my
horses ready, while I went upstairs to put on my
uniform, the family being then in deep mourning;
when, on my return, as I was standing on the
staircase waiting for my servant with my sword,
I saw a number of soldiers rushing upstairs with
their muskets and fixed bayonets, as I conceived
to seize my person. I retired instantly into a
back room, to defeat their object, and to de-
liberate on the means to be adopted for the
restoration of my authority, which, in such a
critical situation, could only be accomplished by
my getting into the interior of the country adja-
cent to the Hawkesbury, where I knew the whole
body of the people would flock to my standard.
To this situation I was pursued by the soldiers,
and, after experiencing much insult, was con-
ducted below by Lieutenant Minohin, who told
me that Major Johnstone was waiting for me.”
Johnstone repeated to Bligh what his letter has
already told ns, and placed him under arresh
Then the house was ransacked, and the Governor's
commission, instructions, and other papers and
reports seized, and a guard was set round the
house to prevent Blighs escape. This is his own
account; the officers maintained that he was found
concealed under a bed, from which he was ex-
tracted at the point of a soldier’s bayonet. There
Is nothing inherently incredible about this version,
but comii g from the source it does the statement
Is probably a l'e. The civil magistrates were at
once placed under arrest.
* * *
Then a reign of terror set in. If any
doubt existed as to the character of the officers of
the New South Wales Corps and their leading
splr t, Mr. John Macarthur, as well as of the real
nature of the revolution they effected, the events
that now followed rapidly dispelled it. The
officers had everything their own way, with no re-
sponsibility for tteir actions, and under these
favourable circumstances they soon showed the
kind of material they were made tf. On the day
following Bllgh’s deposition Major Johnstone dis-
missed the magistrates from their offices, and
took proceedings against the other opponents of
his rule. The attorney Crossloy, who prepared
the indictment against Macarthur, was sent to the
coal mines at Newcastle for seven years. The
office rs of the Corps were appointed to the vacant
magistracies, and Judge-Advocate Adkins was
dismissed in favour of Captain Abbott, the same
officer whose nose was pulled for his insolence by
Lieutenant Marshall. It is probable that Atkins
would have been sent to the coal-mines with
Crossley, but the officers presently found that he
might be useful to them ; so they showed him a
document found amorg Bligh’s stolen papers,
which we have already quoted from, charging him
with drunkenness and incapacity. When Mr.
Atkins read this little paper he at once threw in
his lot with the officers and was again appointed
Judge-Advocate by those congenial spirits. As
the holders of the King’s Commißßion the officers
knew that his acts would have a certain legality
which theirs wanted, so they were content to
bury the past, and possibly to persuade Mr Mac-
arthur to refrain from spurning the Ju^ge-Advo-
cate now that he had the opportunity. The Com-
missary, Palmer, was also dismissed, as
also was Robert Campbell, the naval
officer with whom Macarthur had quar-
relied. Macarthur was tried again before
the new Judge-Advocate, promptly acquitted,
and chaired through the streets of the town by
the foldiers, who throughout these proceedings
enjoyed themselves very much indeed.
* * *
It would be ridiculous to expect that the
officers of the New South Wales Corps progressed
so far without invoking Providence Their ras-
cality was of too finished a character for that
One ot Johnstone’s —or Macarthur’s first steps
was to suspend i he chaplain, but the interests of
religion were not to be allowed to suffer by such a
step as that. A person named Crook, whom
Holt described as a barn ranter whom nobody
would listen to, was appointed to preach, but the
duties of ordinary were discharged by no less a
person than the vivacious Mr. John Macarthur.
This man’s cense of humour was of suoh subtle
fineness as almost to elude the eye He intro-
duced a prayer into the Liturgy for Major John-
stone, styling him Lieutenant-Governor, and
issued a proclamation calling on every well-
disposed inhabitant ” to join in thanks for the mer-
ciful interposition of Providence in their favor by
“ relieving them without bloodshed from the awful
situation in which they stood before the memor-
able 26th inst." But the finishing touch to this
revolting hypocrisy and squalid caricature of the
ordinances of religion was put by the appoint-
ment of Captain Kemp—whom we have seen
Icing his men to submit to be robbed by him
dor threat of the lash —to celebrate marriages
the town of Sydney! Then Mr. Macarthur
is made a magistrate and Colonial Secretary,
d, to quote Dr. Lang, “ the military and grog-
lers of Sydney were quite vociferous in praise
the new regime; celebrating the accession of
njor Johnstone with bonfires, laudatory ad-
asses, and the other customary manifestations
joy.” In the eyes of this portion of the com-
inity a great moral revolution had been con-
mmated, and the right of those concerned to
ike and sell rum amply vindicated.
* - *
Bligh was confined in a subaltern s
arters in the barracks for twelve months. All
3 regulations respecting the King’s stores and the
tt'ers’ supplies were abrogated, and matteis
ought back as far as possible into the con-
ticn which existed before the power of the
>rps b?gan to decline. Rum was supplied freely
the friends of the new Government, with as-
jnments of convict-labour and grants of land.
> secure the goodwill even of the convicts, cer-
in free pardons were made out and given away.
11 public meetings weie prohibited, except for
e purpose of addressing the new rulers. D\
mg gives an instance of the weekly meetings of
resbyterians being stopped by Lieutenant Ball in
irsuance of this order. Persons were asked to
jn the requisition under which as-
imedthe Government, and although only “ Bix
1 seven names had been affixed to the paptr
hen the troops marched from the Birracks,”
jout 100 were afterwards found on ic. Of these
any signed through timidity or fear. Mr.
rndell, a magistrate, who signed an address to
[ajor Johnstone, addressed a private letter to
ligh at once, eaying that he had done so under
ie influence of fear. #
But the climax was reached by Major
ohn stone's
“ Proclamation !
“ The public peace beiDg happily end, I trust in
dmighty God, permanently established, I hereby
roclaim the cessation of martial law. I have
his day appointed magistrates and other public
tiaotionaries from amongst the most respectable
fflcers and inhabitants."
“ In future no man shall have just cause to
omplain of violence, injustice, or oppres-
ion ; no free man sbaU be imprisoned,
ir deprived of his house, land, or liberty but by
aw. Justice shaU be impartially administered,
yithout regard to or respect of persons, and every
nan shall eDjoy the fruits of his industry in
ecurity.”
The first steps after this noble declaration were
;o arrest the settler Snttor and the ex-Provost-
Vlarshal Gore. The former protested sgainst the
Regality of the action of the Corps, and the other
had Macarthur for an enemy. Suttor was im-
prisoned for six months in the condemned cell
In Sydney, and Gore for 11 weeks and four dayß,
after which he was sent to hard labour in the coal
mlneß of Newcastle for four months. This latter
part of the sentence was added, possibly, to give
the hapless Provost some idea of what a “just
cause to complain of violence, Injustice, or op-
pression" might happan to be. There was an
addendum to this proclamation—all through which
Macarthur’s hand is plainly traceable—which was
addressed to the rank-and-file of the Corps, in
recognition of the bravery and high spirit shown
by those gallant men throughout the trying time.
It was couched in the heroic terms which some of
the generals of history haveaffeoted in addressing
their victorious troops after a decisive engage-
ment :
“Soldiers l—Your conduct has erdeared you
to every well-disposed inhabitant in this settle-
ment. Persevere in the same honourable path,
and you will establish the credit of the New South
Wales Corps on a basis not to be shaken,
“ God Save the King 1”
There is a rough, blistering irony about this, the
force of which further words would only weaken.
* * *
One of the first steps taken by Johnstone
was to communicate with his commanding officer,
Colonel Paterson, then in Van Diemen’s Land
He informed him of what had been done, and it -
vited him to come and assume the supreme autho-
rity. But that astute officer too well knew the kind
of warriors he commanded, and what they wore
capable of, to put his head in a noose like that.
He had quite enough of the wisdom of the serpenb
to keep him out of harm’s way ; so he sent baok a
reply, Informing Major Johnstone’s party that, as
I they had begun a revolution they might finish it
amongst themselves. So Johnstone continued to
hold office until the arrival of Colonel Foveaux,
who returned from England whither he had been to
attend an enquiry into his notion as gaoler of Nor-
folk Island. Still later, Paterson came over from
Van Diemen’s Land, when he thought that step
could he taken with perfect safety, and suspended
Foveaux. During the term of the officers’ rule
more land grants were given away than under any
previous ruler, and the officers were careful to
make hay while the sun of their prosperity shone.
The settlers and the general population fell back
into the misery from which Bligh had but tem-
porarily rescued them. And this was the R#volu-
tion of 1808.
The Wail of Ah Haynes.
IVe have learned for the first time that the ram-
ant Haynes, M.L.A., is a Chinaman. We
rould never have guessed it had he not revealed
tie fact himeelf, but the following paragraph
rom the Sunday News, a humble sausage-wrap
rtu'h John edits, places it apparently beyond
uestion
Mr. Alfred Miller fought well in Ihe Newtown con-
BBt, and made a fearful exposure of Traill, editor of
'oohey s denominational in regard to his emp os m<
Jhineae at The Bulletin office. By the way, The BuI-
(ETiN people are at)out to publish an Anti- Jbinese numie .
t ia amaeing V> n te that the very tables on which the papers
nil be packed were made by Chinamen, to the order of Mr. W.
I. Traill, who got them sneaked into the office when ail
he white workmen had gone away
b chances, unfortunately for the Escaped John s
irgument, that the fittings of The Bulletin
ifflee, including the tables aforesaid, were erected
intirely by his own brother. The gentleman in
inestion certainly looked like an Irishman ; he
lsed to tell agreeable yarns about the Ould Sad
while he was superintending the work; he bad a
irogue instead of a pigtail, and he never wor-
ihipped Joss—or at all events, if he did so it was
n secret, and he was never known to burn incense
:o any heathen deity on the premises. We cer-
tainly took him for a pleasant little gentleman
[rom Cork, and it comes upon us as a sudden
shock to learn that he was, after all, a dis-
guised Chinaman. The firm employed by Mr.
Haynes to do the vork under his supervision
was that of John Wright and Sons, Edgeware
Road, Enmore, Sydney, and the members thereof
have always worn the outward aspect of white
men, both in their countenances and their deal-
ings. It remains, therefore, for Mr. John
Haynes, M.L.A., either to disown his own
brother or to admit that he himself is a China-
man, and if the brother in question refuses to be
disowned we would like to know what John is
going to do about it. We have some delioacy in
offering explanation, nob being accustomed,
like Ah Haynes, to write about ourselves, and
we have some delicacy also in writing about Ah
Haynes since we have discovered him to be a
Chinaman, bub if we had the time and inclina-
tion to set down all we know about that
gentleman we could supply a remarkable
chapter of Australian political history. As
to Mr. Haynes’, M.L.A.’s, denunciation of Mr.
George Dibbs as a “ hollow-hearted failure,” we
need only remark that the journal in which Ah
Mudgee is privileged to write comes out under
the auspices of Mr. John Shepherd, the deadly
personal enemy of that same Mr. George Dibbs
who, when Mr. Haynes and the present editor of
The’ Bulletin were in Darlinghurst gaol for un-
paid costs, was the first and foremost man to
stand their friend.
Pigott Fand.
The follow ing is a foil list of subscriptions re-
ceived by The Bulletin on bebalf of Mr. Pigott,
the blind journalist :
A Friend, £1; R.D.8., 10s.: P.X., £5 ; Darkie, £1 :T.
Buff rey, 7s. 6d : Gregory Lodge of Freemasons, perH w.
Atkinson, secretary, £l5 ;R. Davis, 7s. 6d. Collected by R.
Cassin, Barrredman, £2O ; Alfred J. Barnett, £l.
I The doctors believe they have discovered
leer tissues in the German Crown Prince’s
roat.
Messrs. Branton and Sons, the well-
own millers ot Yiotoria and Queensland, opened
elr splendid mills at Clyde, N.S.W., last week,
[th a stand-up banquet, A large and voluble
owd was present, the baking fraternity espeol-
ly mustering very strongly on the occasion.
Messrs. Roth and Co., the Sydney agents
r Delbeck’s champagne and Marie Brlzard’s
ines, gave a Delbeok champagne banquet at
rank Smith’s grounds at Botany one evening
at week. The guests were unanimous in their
pproval of the brand, and a large quantity was
rasumed in the course of the proceedings.
"During 1887, 52 mining companies were
oated in Great Britain to work Australian mines
Ith a total nominal capital of £7,508,000. The
irgest established mine of the year was the
ritlsh Brokm Hill Proprietary, with a capital of
1,200,000. This money is largely the cause of
tie silver boom, most of it having been, in mining
arlance, “ banged in again."
Sydney D.T. has discovered that Dibbs,
rho lately stated that he had been a Freetrader
from his youth up,” said not long ago in public
bat “when young he was favourable to Prc-
action." Having thus pilloried Dibbs, the D.T.
ad better double-column the various utterances
f Parkes, Garrett, Clarke, Roberts, Abigail,
lutherland, &c , on the same subject.
1 here have of late been statements in the
Sydney papers, to the effect that severe action
vas to be taken by the Reform Club in the matter
,f the Dibbs-Garrett slanging-match. To enable
ihe public to iudge of the qualifications of the
Reform Club as a cersor of morality, it may be
itated that it is the boast of its members that
hey drank the Club out of a heavy debt in a few
nonths.
It is stated that in the island of Gomera,
me of the Canaries, the Inhabitants have a
vhiatle-language by which they communicate
with each other across gorges. We can beat that.
3ome of our members of Parliament and aldermen
md other eminent guzzlers have a bicoup lan-
guage by means of which, on festive occasions,
-hey communicate with each other —also across
gorges.
When, the other day, Sir Robert Wisdom,
Df N.S.W., announced his conversion to Protec-
tion, it]was understood that the ohange of opinion
had come about in coneequenoe of what Robsrli
h d a sen in England. It now appears that, while
in l rjat Britain, Wisdom defendsd the Freetrade
policy of New South Wales, and that, immediately
after bis return to the color y, he took some days
to consider a rt quess tl at be ihould contest a con-
sult '"ry In the Freetrade interest! Supposing
all t ij .j i. trr. are driven to the conclusion
that vvibfiom, K.C.M.G., is an astute person who
sees how the cat jumps, and who means to be on
the winning side or burst.
CORRESPONDEND
I'.M. (Tamworth) : No; what the bishop named
state was that twenty years ago the RC. Church
terty in the Tamworth district was worth £4OO, and that
it was worth £20.000. Of course, the R.C. Church, like
ir Churches that knew not a bishop, is quite ready
annex the unearned increment....lnquirtr (Orown-
»t): Sir Charles Warren, Chief of the Londoa police, is
i a lecturer at Exeter Hall and a member of the Salva-
Army....T. Phillips: It’s only a stupid catch; Lord
dolph Churchill always wears blue braces—because he
ts to keep his trousers up. ..Tom Connors: Thanks for
i... An Admirer (Adtlong): The action of the lfcal
00l of Arts committee in “sneakiog out'’ The
jLk,TiN from the archives ef that institution is only
act of gratuitous advertising of the paper, for
:h we are much obliged H. J. Brown
illombi): Temperance Hall, Pitt-street, will find him....
'anus (Ballina): Not at all bad; many papers use....
C. : Your verses are very good Dot: Creditable in-
1, buthardly enough “go" to merit publication....Ei
ikivell: Thants for par....Sphynx: Will read your
reed.’’. ...W.C. (Lismore): Received R. Hayhow :
lermicroscopic consideration... Z. Lane (St. Arnaud):
t the item rather local? . .JEquitatus: We shall con
re in our policy of liberalism, nevertheless, because
re built that way... Max: The poem recited by
;el was by Heins; it is called " Der Weber.”....
Norgrove : Yeu are saved this tiip, as we have no
e to “ wither your boul,’’ and all our spare “ lightning "
off.... Edward Lambert: We shall give a fu'ure
cle to the subject J. P. Mooney: Very thin...
stral-Italian : Pranzini, the murderer, was not even a
uralised Frenchman. He was an Italian, and he had
n c m ploy id in the English Government service.
.“S.S.L.”: During Victoria's reign the value of
strong drink consumed in Great Britain was about
500,000,000.... Warriga1: We certainly cannot inform you
» whether the proprietors of the paper you mention ever
irded the five guineas offered as a prize for Christmas
lundrum. Why not write to them direct?.. .Protectioiist
en Innes): Pulsford's assertion that N S.W. had 3463
nufactories to Victoria’s 2828 must be taken with much
t. He’d call a tinker’s hand-barrow a manufactory.,,.
Malen (Burra): You may not recognise the fact because
i do not like surrendering an illusion; nevertheless the
jbs of Christ is a very different thing from the Cross of Con-
ntine ~C O'H. Canavan, G.C.M., R. G. Morriston, A.
swart, George Moate, St Andrew,W.W. H., W. R. Clemesha,
d J N.: Received J.B, (Gladesville): Gocd yarn, but
her 10ng... .Pro Bono Publico : See next week's issue...
iraham : The further a man gets away from a lord or a
\1 G. the bigger the latter 100k5....W.8.D.: You mightn’t
able to do it...,L S.: It is sheer nonsense, under the
cumstances, to ask Judge Windeyer to review the Mount
mnie case, whiGh should be dealt with by an independent
>mmission....E. Warton: Professor Huxley has visited
istralia. He came here in H.M.S. Rattlesnake in 1846....
, O'S.: Since 1846, 3,257,000 persons have been evicted in
eland... Henry Wright (Wellington, N.Z.I: We don’t
low of »Dy translation cf Cornaro's work. Better apply to
bookseller....M.M.W.: Surely it carnot be true that
e promoter, in Melbourne, cf ’The Sickness and
ccident Assurance Association of Australasia,' under
e presidentship of Hon. Francis Ormond, is an individual
ho, in Sydney, was connected with the ‘ Ausl ralian Mutual
rudential and Medical Society.’... .W.C. (Lismore): A
Dople, pastoral joke eminently suited to the infant mind,
hanks... Cockney: Will print your letter.... P.W.N.
)’aland): Will deal with....W. L. Jenkins: It is, indeed,
onstrous to find a bishop of a Christian church singing the
raises of the Soudan cut-throat expedition... .S.W.: If a
[inister continually gets drunk, the fact cannot be too often
r too loudly proclaimed from the housetop. A drunken
tan cannot be a fit custodian of any public trust ..A Sub-
:riber (Hokitika) Why don’t you send us something
riginal?... .E.S J.: It is all very well for the N.S.W. Social
'urity and Local Option party to say that they take no part
a the fiscal controversy, but let them point to an occasion
n which they have supported the candidature of a Protec-
ionist ?... .Skitastic: We don’t remember them.
“ The bride looked Immensely nice in the
: apacity ,’’ is the soul-gush of a journal in
lorthern N.Z on the occasion of a local wedding.
Seems like an unkind allusion to her hash cavity.
A Victorian Customs official balled up a
nan with a suspicious parcel the other day, and
wanted to see the contents, but the man was
rigger than he, and positively refused to recognise
bis Btatus unless he put on his uniform. He
kindly sat down and waited, however, while the
functionary assumed his war-paint with a shoe-
horn, and then the bundle was opened and proved
to contain waste-paper and rags. Violent speech
ensued.
The mortal remains of Mr. Adams, a
Hansard reporter, were found lying at the
bottom of a bank some time ago in Wellington,
N Z The next issue of the Parliamentary organ
broke off abruptly in the middle of Maior Atkin-
Bon’s speech on the Australian atd New Zealand
cable, with the explanation : “ The reporter who
had notes of this statement was unfortunately killed
by a fall before he had written them cub.” Now,
if Adams is anything of a white man he will do
his level best to send that report along as soon as
possible, unless they’ve used it to light the fire
with where he’s gone to.
In the busy mining township of Broken
mil (N.S.W ) there have been no postage-stamps
procurable for several days. When there is no
liquor obtainable for a week in the Crown and
Anchor pub. then we will be prepared to believe
that Postmaster-General Roberts pajs as much
attention to the duties of his Government billet
as to his natural calling of putting gin in the
mouth of the public to steal away a thing which
he badly wants, but whloh wouldn’t do him much
good if he bad it as he doesn’t know how to use
it; but at present ib looks as if Parkes’ Publican-
General was sacrificing his colony’s business to
the local demand for gin and dog’s-nose.
In King-Btreet, Sydney, the other day,
two men laid themselveß out to “knock the
stuffing ’’ out of Mr. W. H. Traill, editor of the
Australian Star, and were surprised to find
themselves badly lioked and given into custody.
Some years ago, when Mr. Traill was on The
Bulletin, another pair made a similar attempt.
They evidently expeebed to meet a man about
4ft. 6in, in heighb, and they weakened a little
when they were introduced to a brawny, 6-ft.
personage of ferociously Highland aspect. But
they staled their case all the same, and when they
said something about “ taking the law into their
own hands,” the Traill arose and spoke in an awf® 1
voice : “ There’s the door. Get out, or I’ll grind
your skulls on the doorstep." They gat.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
IM ROTAL-"J ol^ t l^’’ , > -
txoN Theatre.— Dlok "
lajbsty’s Theatre.—'" In The Banka *■—— ••
Hall—Saored Concert
ibra Music Hall MinitreUy
olanthe ” rose again at Sydney Royal
turday, and the temperature of that place of
jment was equal to the mental fervour of
an who races a cooking stove downstairs,
who is overtaken by his enemy half-way
* The membsrs of the N.S.W. Upper
; a ione seemed to hold aloof. The chorus of
in “ lolanthe ” was obviously built to guy
tobies of the earth, and the portly senators
the large red ears who sool on the machine
tte probably felt it incumbent upon them to
isb their official disapproval by remaining
There wouldn’t have been much room for
'anyhow. “lolanthe” does not appeal strongly
; sympathies of that class of early fathers
went about without boots and slept on an
eap in the younger days of Australian his-
-they mostly want something stronger and
x for a rousing fight and a leg-show ; but the
ilnate young men of the present day, the
-de camp who bear the soars of old wounds
ved through falling over a cow in the rear of
itumn manoeuvre, and the new generation
atesmen with weak under-jaws who can t
like their hardy ancestors, all profess to ad-
it and the D.T. critic says that the opera,
ed' ina general sort of way, is "invested
suavity.” Miss Maggie Moore plays the
r Queen, and the parb appears to suit her
,r than that of the moral Japanese wreok,
ha with her solidary tooth standing out
y against a lonely horizon of barren jaw.
singing is sweeter than it was, and in her
Bltv as an influential fairy she gets as many
?es as she can well hold. Miss Leonora
am’B Phyllis is also an improvement on the
Yum which preceded it. For one thing, she
mot glue herself at such awful angles to the
son as she did, and she has no chance bo in-
rolling waddle whloh made her Japanese
look Uto a Httle girl in a heavy sea. With-
uftwo features Miss Brabam is as attrac-
tso any young lady with cold feet
m Parkes ever kissed 10,000 feet above
sea Mr. Howard Ve rnon retains his
hUleb as the Chancellor, irrespective of the
“L rt parties and the horrid grind of
Acs, and runs hxs depart-
t in a way which is cal
ted to scare litigants into
so that they would only
ke in time to be sent into
wed convulsions by the
, Mr. Duncan Young
tes an airy and tuneful
a" Karl TolloUer, and Mr.
art Brennir hasn’t quite got
hang of things as Strep-
Consequently, that fancy
is shepherd, who tends his
ks in Arcadia, somewhere
the ontaklrts „1 London Is
at the weakest part of the
[ormance, though even at
worst he is not bad enough
S his mother feel sorry
t ehe ever made Wsacqoal “ 8
oe. The scenery, as is
al at the Royai, J laid on
ardless of cost, and lolan
» will run for 12 nights,
ess interfered with byJjon-
sions of Nature or other
foreseen circumstances.
#* * *
The ponderous awfulness
the ‘‘Green Lanes of EDg-
A” is again in full blast at
loey Gaiety. The lanes are
iting to be withered and
idv from sheer old Bge ,
jy have nothing whatever
do with the s.ory, and, in
jt, there aren b any lanes to
,ak of in the drama at all,
t the title still att^ ct ?^l.
idy multitude to and the old
sir lawful cornstalk tend tQ mu , io .
3ce travels on like an e p > draws a
mehow, the ® reeia ® inte r the irreversnb
owd at the Gaiety- the ircold feet shoved
ya crowd in the pit with th interva i a 0 f the
to each other s backs, other of pirriciding
ay they angrily the summer the
ifenoeless Chinamen , a n thousand
me dense audlenw"Eufbutthey never fail
nbrellas in a Turkish b , lf de3erV es to
be there. The oid drama, g()ld by the
5 put away in the garbage 8! tbe B ii e nt
jund, but it still oMl t® ® he extinguished,
imb of criticism and re terlng lon g after the
robably it will continue aro B themselves in-
resent generation of o , d o ff by auction
irred and their furniture 90ld o “ ao / wiU arise
eder bill-of-sale, wltb both
> tread on the tall of he ThQ aucoeaa 0 f
>et, and still lb will g ~ ranka amo 3g
ie “ Green Lanes of g b 0 reasonably
ie things that nobody oan obscure
xpected to heard out of the
s a voice from probably re-
ottom of “ a^ d ba Thep?es d entperfomance, how-
aain so to the end. T P wb [ cb doea mU oh to
ver, is conducted in aw y t he drama,
Lghten the grief which at^ e t menta l aoa i p
,nd Mr. Dampier, while taxing t deavoU rs
.1 the ptib io a. a poeelWe.
O do it in the most gentlemanly vioua 00
Phe cast is much the same nes q{ Eogland ..
jasions when the Gfree nr chest. Misi Lily
lave sit heavily ,£?. t tone is a pretty and
Dampler’s Margaret W other characters
jraceful performance, and the ouiei
are—are—aw— Ya-as. # #
“In the Ranks,” at =«
(Sydney), Is “ b ‘‘ arsdous S .
The noble Eentiment aboub Ger
StoS.'wl“*, **£•.X *££ f°Sm.
£ SSSBS^iSSfS.
acting, bub we ° ou l dn * _# an alleged poem
Without spoiling “®?; e N of c riUo no end of
which cost The Bult k _ b tit bad to
labour.
oome out eaoh time for wa b illneßß , and
Warde is missing this week t wlth a
his place is half-filled by Mr. Fred ljara.
little more pracblce he y
The wild Afri*n* ml»treU >t
Academy have f n Xsts whioh promise soon to
Meats and Donovan Into the hills. If these
gentlemen wish to get a faint idea of how insanely
ridiculous they look in action, they had better call
at the Aoademy and see themselves, and the
chances are that they will immediately beat their
Bwords into olothes-props, and forswear the art of
war. There is no glory in skirmishing on the
windy heights of Bondi, and when the veterans
show their scars in after life they will find it hard
to oonvince the publio that they are not endea-
vouring to pass off a mule-kick as a sanguinary
campaign. We offer these few general remarks
in a friendly spirit, and, while offering them, we
have got so far away from the Federal Minstrels
that we see no reasonable probability of being
able to get back this week.
## # #
“ The School for Scandal ” has taken the
place of “Sophia,” at Adelaide Royal, and
although Sheridan’s comedy has been previously
represented in a more creditable manner, the
audiences have been large and enthusiastic. The
succsss is mostly due to the scenery. “ The Pick-
pocket," with Mr. Harwood as Grumbleton, will
follow.
## # #
Mr. Charles Warner, aB was foreshadowed
on his debut night, is crowding Melbourne Royal
in all parts except the dress circle, where the
finest acting is unappreciated unless the actor
wears purple and fine linen, or sings a song.
There is little fault to find with the setting of this
dramatic gem, and, although Coupeau is the only
human character in “ Drink,” many of the others
oontrive to throw in touches of nature which
make the whole thing gee. As far as a well-nur-
tured form and full, rich voice will allow, Mies
Isabel Morris represents Gervalse. If she can t
look lean, or talk as though she only gets meat
otoi a week, we must saddle the blame on Natur.
Miss Watt-Tanner makes all she oan of Virginia,
the woman whose one ambition is to destroy the
body and soul of a plumber beoause his wife
whacked her in a wash-house so “many years
ago.” The way in which Virginie dodges about
Coupeau for half-a-dozen acts seems preposterous
upon calm reflection, but the lady mentioned
throws a glamour of possibility round her wicked-
ness with a light artistic hand. There is
fire in the Gorget of Mr. Herbert Flem-
ming and a genuine ring about the
backhander with which he impresses the beautieß
of temperance upon boozy Mes Bottes. Mr.
Alfred Phillips, who oame out as aide-de-camp to
Warner, plays this part sufficiently well, and
A GREAT PROBLEM SOLVED.
JUST GIVETHE HIGH HATS OF THE THEATRE TO THEMSELVES, AND MUCH JOY TO THE LOVELY DRAHS!
Ijb Emma Chambers romps through the strictly
iraneous character of Phoebe Sage. Since the
snlng night Mr Albert Marsh has rubbed a lot
greasy imbecility off Lantier wih advantage
the tout ensemble, while the outline 0 f pol8BO “
Irmly drawn by Capt. De Burgh. That just
aut exhausts the panel of “ Drink --apiay
doh should be seen of all men, for the Bake ° f
arles Warner and the awfal lesson he imparts,
e Triumvirate shall surely reap their rcwa
• this good work—the sixpences now saved from
a liquor-flend will be invested in gallery seats at
me future time. In the days of our youth m
it the landlord of a pub. which faced ,*£•
ala Theatre, London. How is biz. ? says we.
D n bad,” says he, they re playing The
>ttle’ over at the Brit., and if it holds on much
nger I shall put the shutters up.
** * *
«. As You Like It,” although not exactly
i they would like it, keeps Shakespeare’s memory
men at Melbourne Bijou. Apart from the ah-
jrvading Miss Jenyns, two or three of the
mpany do show up better than in "Romeo and
iliet"—a fact not perceivable at a first passing
lance Mr. Hodson does full justice to Adam,
ad Mr. Norman looks and talks like an exi.ed
ook. Of the others, Mr. Inman alone has an
coent or delivery which wouldn t P£°™ke a
mnkey to bite his mother. Mr Holloways
rneß are too matured to admit of change, but
£ Stewart may shake off the twang which
ewrayeth him, if he gives his mind to the
latter before it is too late. Except as a
ioture, pure and simple, the fair is not a
aa asffvA'aaasas
'L a third weak. Mr. St. Maur, with a
lengthened support, has put up “ Brighto n a
he Alexandra, with fair promise of gettlng back
. liberal outlay in the scenery department. The
Mesmerist is still working the weak-minded
oubllc with phenomena which are partly real,
mostly bogus, and always debasing to everybody
£2m aw point of view. There is a growing dw-
nnnition to sit on Kennedy. “ Dorothy might
Qll the Princess's with the cream of Melbourne
sassiety for weeks to come, but it gives way to
Faust ” on Saturday. To-night (Thursday) the
only Blton takes a temporary leave and a gigantic
beneht. # # # *
The critics of the Melbourne theatrical
papers have grown simply maudlin and. dribble
over their bibs about Essie Jenyns. She is a fine
actress at least she will be at a mature age but
she?s not yet Thalia and Melpomene in one edition.
These same oritios oould see nothing in he
they did they kept their views wonderfully dark
when she made her debiit some years ago. This
paper was the on’y one of that time that perceived
Fn her the making of a rare artist.
her head be strong enough she will disregard
drivel, however sacoharine, and criticise hetself.
Otherwise it will be a case of tete moaiee, and ete
will become a mannerist. We make no charge fir
this advice. ## # *
A Sydney daily states that Mr. Tom
Taylor, the author of the famous Ticket-of-
Leave Man,” recently sued John Solomon in the
Sydney District Court for £2OO damages for having
performed hts play without pajing the usual fees.
Tom has been dead as a door-naxl for years, and
the Sydney dailies haven’t found it out yet. ihe
management of Bondi Aquarium would do
well to drop on the idiots who keep pelting
stones at the sharks, and the police might keep
an eye on the wretched animals. We don t love
a shlrk even a land shark that writes poetry
about “Stella” isn't to our mind, but there is
no reason why the unhappy brutes should bs done to
death with bricks, while theaveragapoliticianisa.
lowedtoremain unpetted. Simonsen s Italian Opera
Company has done good business in Hobart, and
the local critics have published long articles on
them, and barked their shins pitiably against
Italian words which they don t understand. Mr.
Ireland, who was injured in the eye by Ida Herbert
while playing “ Alone In London at Newcastle,
seems likely to lose his sight. Ireland was fond
of playing the dagger scene very realistically,
Miss Tilly Karle, an actress, who was well-
known throughout Australia twenty years
ago, died at Windsor (Vie) on -February n
Kate Alma is playing to good houses at Brisbane
Graietv. The Melbourne Herald s idiot and mis-
creant says of “Drink":—' Mr. Herbert Mem
ming. as Goujet, the teetotal advocate, was good,
but why will he try to step five feet as he leaves
the stage." Why will he try ? This makes us
tired. Isn’t he an artist, and hasn the to act
character to the life as well as he can? And
mustn’t he pretend to be in a hurry to go behind
and get a drink * It is worse than childish—it Is
Imbecile. That precipitate departure i 3 the finest
feature in the performance. George Leitch, Grat-
tan Riggs, and Nelson Decker are resting In Mel-
bourne. Bill Romeo Holloway has engaged Armei
Beaumoat to assist him. Bill himself is getting
too husky to warble love-songs to a maiden on a
balcony. Sara Bernhardt's grief over her dead
tiger has been soothed somewhat by a present of
two able-bodied lion cubs. Sara will be eaten
some day. Meanwhila, her friends call on her
armed to the teeth. Henry Irving imported a
genuine English plum-pudding, weighing 271 b., to
treathts company with at Christmas, and the
New York’s Customs officers charged him
five dollars duty, and made him*
bond that no unlawful weapons were hidden
in the duff. The proprietor of tharecsjnt
Theatre Royal, Bolton (Eng.), declared hiaJad-
ing to be completely fireproof, and offered
£lOOO to anyone who could burn it dow .
Someone went and did it, and, instead of Payirg
the £lOOO he offered a reward for the in
cendiary.” ______
Many romantic improbabilities are said to
have eventuated in the early days of Sydney. One
story which bears the cnmistasable mark of the
insurance-agent, is that, on one remote occasion
a sailor was oonflned in th i Cumberland-atree
lockup, which was an airy, superficial stractnre
built of palings. His mates-resen ting his im
prisonment-armed themselves wi h acoUol
rope, which they fastened round the legal shed,
and with one long, strong yo-heave ho, they
lifted the entire gaol from off the misdemeanan ,
and carried him away in triumph.
A Sydney book-dealer tells a queer story
of a recent experience of his. One mgh a little
old man whom he did nob know came to hiai house
and said to him : “I believe you have on hand a
copy of ” (naming the book). I .
uliad the bookman “ What is your price for it ?
pounds.” “ You can’t let me have
it for less?” “No.” “ Then IH take it. And
he did take it, and paid for it. “ don tm n
mv destroying it here ? asked the little old man.
“ No " replied the astonished book-dealer. Where-
upon the ancient personage started toi tear ib up
leaf by leaf, throwing the fragments into the fire.
Having completed the destruction of the volume,
he departed. , ,
The Chiaese idolater is still ahead of the
nrocassion. At Maryborough (Q.) a pig-tailed son
Sf opinm lately ran a fan-tan establishment, and
the men of the sun-scorched
his banouet board and thronged his festive halls.
the ways of the Eulopaan white devil, ana
sounded the inner consciousness and the deep de-
nravlty of the man who professed to ba Christian
“pijbb” and he knew the darkness of his soul,
and how his heart was set upon the strange
liquors whioh men of guile put up l,l Jotttes that
he might empty them into his head. So the illio
Chinese stocked his cabbage ■ stake with boo-
Sea and kegs filled with the fluid cussed
ness of the strangers from across bhe sea,
and his customers fell into the brap of bhe
ved one and imbibed the liquors, and while they
were drunk ib evontmated that the Chinaman very
frequently scooped the pool. He had one month
of golden prosperity and in the course of that
period he cleaned out the neighbourhood till ib
had hardly a cent to bless itself with. Then the
“ Eulopean publican fellow grog-man ’ found out
wliftt wa»s golns on and informed on him, and he
was cast upon a bard bunk in a lonply dungeon
be ;mse he declined to pay the fine. Bub nobody
oou d ever find out where he had stowed the cash,
and vhen he comes out he will quietly dig up me
si oils and Boftly walk away with a moderate
fortu ie to the Central Flowery Land. Conse-
quently he keeps up his spirits under his mis-
fortunes, and there is a sound of chuckling by
night in the cell where he resides, and for the
thornandth time the Caucasian has been unspeak-
ably left. (|
“ He was a man who had suffered much,
says a country paper in a short obituary notice ;
“ he had been a subscriber to thi3 paper since its
first number.”
Daring Governor Macquarie’s reign, ib
struck him that it would be a good thing to distri-
bute some seeds and a few useful articles among
the blacks by way of inducing them to earn an
honest living for themselves. He gave the notion
a trial, and amongst the things presented to the
niggers was a packet of fish-hooks. Some time
after Mac. book a stroll round to ascertain how
the scheme was working, and, on asking one of the
darkies how he had succeeded, the dark gentleman
replied : “ Oh, berry well, berry well; all come up
fus-rate, except dem fish-hooks—dem no show up
yet.” - IT
Tom Pavey, the Melbourne attorney, tells
a queer yarn about a prisoner he was once defend-
ing for perjury. When the trial came on before
“Oil Moley," Tom went round to the dock, and
thus addressed his client: “ When they call the
iury now, look at the men before they go into the
box, and sing out ‘ Challenge ’ if yon don t want
any of them to try you, if you think they d have
an animus against you." “ What’s that, guy non
demanded the criminal. “An ill feeling—a
‘down’on you,” explained Thomas. Can t I
challenge the judge, guv’oor ”? inquired the
burglar. “Why on earth should you want o
challenge him?" asked the attorney. “Hes a
fair old chap.” “ Well, guv’nor, he may have an
annyvius agin me,” explained the prisoner, Iva
been up before him eight or nine times. The last
time he gemme three year for half-cralnm a
trap."
I Sir Saul Samuel, Agent-
eneral of N.S.W., who has
ist arrived in Australia after
a absence of gome years, Is
j be publicly banqueted on
is return to Sydney.
Nooze brevity : -“The
tgent-General will not put up
with just what the French
ike to allot them at the Palis
Exhibition.” Probably they
will go over with an army
md annex 60,000 square feet
)f space after a bloodthirsty
sampaign. The Agents General
ire terrible when roused.
That daring and succes-
tul speculator, Mr. W. H.
Paling, of Sydney, has pre-
sented to the people of N.B.W.
150 acres of land at Camden
and £lO,OOO in cash with a
view to the establishment of
an hospital for convalescents,
an institu ion which is ur-
gently required in the colony.
The act, which is a noble one,
and, in all, involves a gift of
some £38,000, will, we trust,
be imitated by the wealthy
among the “ Ergllshmen,
Scotchmen and Irishmen," for
whose exclusive use the
NSW. Premier publicly said
the other day he was desirous
of conserving the goil of Aus-
tralia. Mr. Paling is a native
of Germany.
The N.S.W. Association for the Promotion
of Morality and Social Purity advertises that the
committee ■will be glad to tender advice to those
who may be in distress through cruel wrorg. We
recommend Parke s' friend, Macnamara, to call at
once,
Edward Mott, the Yankee who wrote
“ Tha Moan of the Butcher-Man,’ reprinted
te’ow, can give points in punning to even Jaw-
bone Neild :
With garb uncouth and grimed face marked
By many a furrowed line;
With tear and sigh and moan he said,
•’ My name ia Christian Klein.
‘' I was an East Side butcher, sir,
For many happy years;
A false love slaughtered my fond hopeß
So pray excuse these steers !
“ Oh, fickle Katy Dinklespiel,
Why for you did I yearn ?
Why give to you my fresh heart and
Ask Bkewers in ieturn?
“ I said I d cleave my way to wealth
She vowed she'd marry me.
Infatuated I ! The time
How brisket seemed to flee !
“ But she proved false. One day she wrote—
It was no tenderline—
-1 I love the baker, and Ism
Frankfurter own it, Klein !
I liver alone for him, and oh!
He finds his knead in ms.
I never sausage love as his!
He suets ms to a T.’
“ I read, then cried, ‘ She’s tongue me deep !
A viper have I nursed !'
Oh, sir, of all bad cuts I’ve had,
That was the very wurst.
“ One thought is branded in my brain—
Your pity, pray, allow—
Where my poor head she fondled once,
His head cheese pressing now !"
Then paused the uncouth butcher-man,
And fierce his eyes did glare :
And closing tight his brawny fist,
Right furiously he aware:
“ False Katy Dinklespiel!” he cried.
“ 111 haunch ye till I die !
But saddle be my lonely end!——
" Pork Christian Klein! quoth T.
The old man dried his tearful eyes,
And said, “ It’s boot beer time;
Oh, sir ! oh, could you favour me
Bolognaing me a dime!”
Dr Alfred Agassiz, member of the Royal College of
Surgeons England, L.M.R.C.P., registered in Great Britain
aSd g by the Medical Board of N. S. Wales. Specialist
in diseases of the kidneys, bladder, skin, blood, and
nervous affections. Dr. Agassiz has made these diseases a
special study through life, and he has had the very great
practical advantages of a large private as well as hospital
practice not only in Great Britain and America, but the Con-
tinent, of Europe Consultations either personally or by
letter. Eldon House. Phillip-Street. near King street,
Sydney *


Pepper
And
Salt
Years ago in the simple, unsophisticated
past, the people of a certain inland town in N.S. W.
teSolved that they wanted a railway. They had a
gaol already, but they refused to be satisfied and
were pre-eminent in grief. So they started to
agitate, the leading grocer and his chum-in-woe,
the tailor, taking up the cause valiantly, and at
last they got what they wanted, and a new line
was constructed right through the town. The
grocer hoorayed when the first train started, and
concluded that his fortune was made ; to day he
blasphemes instead, and offers rewards to any-
body who will tear up the line and remove it in a
wheelbarrow. In the old days his customers
used to pay—sometime ; but now they run up a
score till they can’t get any more credit, and then
they take a return-tieket and buy their supplies
in the next town. This sort of thing went on till
the shopkeeper’s intellect became so undermined
that even the exertion of keeping his own
hair on was too much for him, and then he
started out on the warpath, and said it waß
his day to whoop. There is only one
train per diem in these latitudes, and when
it starts the grocer is on the platform
with his ledger under his arm, and, walk-
ing along the line of carriages, he reads out th 9
amount each passenger owes him, with particu-
lars about the difficulty he experiences in getting
the money and the reasons he has for not expect-
ing to get it at all. The butcher, the baker, and
the tailor follow his example, and help to make
things eminently agreeable. At the Centennial
time half the local insolvents were going to Syd-
ney in a body, and the other half were seeing
them off, and the four tradesmen stood on the
platform reading off the list of bad debts as hard
as they could gabble. Even then the grooer
couldn't get through the catalogue In time, but he
ran beside the train for hi If a-mile whooping out
the over dae accounts, till at last the steam-horse
left him behind, and then, as he fell from utter
exhaustion, he fired his final shot by screaming
after the retreating excursionists, “ Twenty-two
other accounts will be read out at the next oppor-
tunity.” Times are bad in N.S.W., but still we
have an impression that that man will ultimately
get his money. Perseverance and industry
seldom fail to achieve their reward, as instanced
in the case of Parkes, who started life with a six-
pence, and has gradually risen till he owes more
money than he ever saw.
* • *
The Executive Committee of the Melbourne
Exhibition Commission have rolled their eyes in
fine frenzy over 257 “ Opening Cantatas ” sent in
on approbation by 257 candidates for two prizes.
Poetry turned out by competitive examination
bards on the off chance of ‘ ‘ knocking ” an Exhi-
bition committee is not likely to be much better
than Tennyson's ode 3 executed to the order of his
gracious Queen. Nevertheless, a glance at the
three Cantatas which were placed (two getting
prizes and the third saving his stake) impresses
one with a notion that a particularly shag-bag
field started for this event. Or else—as the third
la distinctly superior to the seoond, and the second
knocks spots off the first—perhaps the worse Can-
tata scooped the 50-guinea pool. A local Congre-
gational parson—Rev. William Allen—is the
happy man, and here is a piece of his prize Can-
tata
“ Said of old the mighty master
(Speaking he of halls Infernal,
Where the lords of hell assembled).,
That from earth the enormous fabric
Rose up like an exhalation !
So arose the stately structure,
Rose the temple walls supernal,
Of the commonwealth Australian.”
It is naughty of the parson to remind us that
civilised JVusfcralia has been constructed on similar
lines to the Infernal halls of Sheol, and it is incor-
reot to talk about a “commonwealth” while Her
Gracious continues to billet her representatives on
this devoted young country. The rest of the
screed is remarkable for nothing except that it is
superlatively dear at twelve shillings a line, and
wouldn’t be printed gratis by any paper bar
Sydney Hevenun Noose, The second prize can-
tata is stronger in sentimenb than expression, but
may be regarded as dirt-oheap, comparatively, at
six shillings a line. It’s argument makes out that
Peace and Freedom gave up the historic Old
World in disgust, and came to New South Wales
in answer to a song of weloome-warbled by
«• our first families,” presumably. Although the
Argos howls against the “ offensive tone” of this
cantata, it is a melancholy fact that the bard gets
feeble in his-final chorus, and asks ns to
“ Weld Empire's links, as enterprise uprears
Australia's record of a hundred jeara.”
T;hat smacks of Imperial Federation, and we like
it not. Mr. J. W. Meaden, who has previously
scored in this class of work, gets the barren
honour of a place for a composition whioh contains
several gracefal fanoles put in graceful verse.
Bat this doesn’t fit in with The Bulletin’s
weekly record of grim facts—
“ Then labour leaped upon the strand,
‘Hot’ merrily laughed he,
And beckoned, with his brawny hand,
To those across the sea."
Labour never leaped upon the strand of Botany
Bay. It just loafed on, with its legs in irons, and
cursed at tho soldiers who pricked It up with
their bayonets. No, all things considered, Mel-
bourne Exhibition had better open with a rousing
nigger chcrns and let the Cantatas sl'de down the
slippery slopes of obscurity into the dork abyss of
the Everlasting Don’t Remsmb:r.
* * *
The eminent and revered mime of Bill
Nye has been covered with disgrace. Many
years ago that famous political economist entered
his indignant protest against Chine’.e cheap
labour, and want for the hea'hen Chinee, but now
his memory has outlived it 3 usefulness, and his
reputation has dropped with a melancholy thud
into the grave of oblivion. At the recent Wes-
leyan Conference In Melbourne “the Rev.
William Nye moved that the stipend of the Rev.
Moy Lirg should be Increased.” That was all.
We insert this little, unpretentious paragraph to
point out that the name of Nye has been hauled
through the dust, and that the present owner of
this cognomen should be ashamed of himee’f. A
man has no right to bear a great name unle-s he
lives up to it, and the shade of the hero who
THE CHRISTIANISATION OF THE ABORI-
GINES.—A PACT.
QUEENSLAND COURT OF JUSTICE-BLACK GIN BEING EXAMINED.
LAWYER (log): “SO YOU SAY YOU UNDERSTAND THE NATURE OF AN OATH.
DO YOU KNOW WHERE HEAVEN IS?”
WITNESS: “YES.”
LAWYER: “WHERE IS IT?”
WITNESS: “OH, LONG WAY BACK ON THE DIAMANTINA.”
LAWYER: “DO YOU KNOW GOD?”
WITNESS: “YES.”
LAWYER: “WHERE IS HE?”
Witness' eye roves round the Court for some time, and at last lights on the Judge's friend.
to whom she points triumphantly: THAT PFELLER, GOD!”
tolled In hla humble sphere to dean out the Chow
and to annex the pile he had made at washee-
washee rises, amid choice profanity, to curse the
man who calls himself Nye, and yet goes out with
a clean shirt on and his hair combed back behind
his long ears, and moves that a Chinaman should
have his screw raised.
* * •#
■A. Dr. T. Laogdon Down has, aftsr careful
investigation, discovered that parsons beget a
larger proportion of idiots and a smaller propor-
tion of eminent sons than the members of any
other profession.
There is in Australia a certain holy city
which runs many charities, and ifi takes stacks of
money to keep them going. Collection-boxes ara
hung up in every sinful public-house and in every
depraved, low. mean, wicked billiard-room, and
each blessed Y.M.C.A. has one in the vestibule.
The week before last the time came round for
hooking in the dross, and the collectors started
out). A young man with unimpeachable testi-
monials, who is so honest that if you left a lot of
mousy with him without counting it you would
find more than you expected when you came back,
was despatched with a sack to tabe up the coin
tom the Y.M.C.A , it being considered that the
fellow who could be trusted with the most money
should take that part c f the duty ; and some otter
young men, who.' e morals s oad very hl«b, though
they were not quite equal to the shining light
aforesaid, end who could be allowed to remain in
the same room with a sixpence with a reasonable
hope that the ctin wou’d be recovered when they
were searched at the police station, were sent
round the hotels The remits were not quite all
that wa« expected. The radiant youth who went
to the Y.M C.A, returned with six buttons,
two or three bits of stick, a bad penny, a bras 3 ring,
part of a half-eaten apple, and a copy of a pro-
fane pamphlet, while the others brought a pound
or so from each wicked hotel. And. now the ques-
tion of the day is—whether the blasphet oua bul-
lock-driver and tbe seedy billiard-sharp are really
so much more generous than the children of
light, or whether the moral young man who re-
turned the half-eaten apple and the other
wreckage as his entire gains isn’t really so moral
as he looks. He has been questioned on the sub-
ject, and says he is as moral as he ever was, but
a lot of other very moral peop’e have their doubts
about him.
Iti was Centennial night in Sydney, and
two men were drunk in a fashionable Club. They
were not merely tight but drunk—weeping, wall-
ing drunk ; they both belonged to the first families
of N.S.W,, and, as they leaned up against the
wall, they whooped at intervals, and said they
wouldn’t go home till morning, They had for-
gotten who they were and all about themselves ;
they couldn’t even tell for certain whether they
were white or Chinese, but one of them a rid feebly
to the other: “ Cummerlong, ole i’ler,’ave anor-
rerrer branny,” and his friend fixed a fishy, lustre-
less orb upon him and moaned: “ Gimmy glash
whish-hisky and zlg-hig-gar,” Oatsi e a cab was
waiting for them, and the driver had also been
can terrain ting. One of the first families fell with his
head out of the window, and screamed in falsetto :
“ Wharly ’ave? ” and a voice responded through
the darkness, “ Bee-eehear.” It was sent out to
him, and he fell off the box in his efforts to drink
it, Ultimately, he got most of it into his ear, and
then he lay still in the gutter, and for a while
there was a dead silence, in the course of whioh
you could hear the mud accumulating in the street,
The only sobsr thing in the crowd was the horte
Presently, an uncertain voice was heard in the in-
terior of the Club ; the owner was drlnkirg “ Gor
save—Aic—quea—yah,” and his companion joined
in the sentiment, and said with borzy solemnity,
“Gor save—oh, lor!’ Then there ensued an
order to “Giver flar oushide norrerrer—no:ror
be-er." It was given, and the cabman spilled it
down his back in bis efforts to find his mouth.
“ S’po3h horsh like a dr-hink,” said the tightest of
the first: families to the waiter. “Ashfc horsh
wharij ave.” The waiter kept his countenance,
and said “ Yessir.” There was another stoppage.
At lasi) one of the revellers awoke from a dream,
and s -id to his friend confidentially, “ Shorge, y r
awfly drunk,” “Sho’s yon.” An interval of
three-quarters of an hour followed, and then the
pair arose, and said, mutually, “Lesh gome.”
The funeral got as far as the doorstep, where it
sit down for 35 minutes, and then the two
colonists lurched heavily over, and awoke tho
cabman, and asked him who the doooe they were,
The cabman didn’t know, but he said he was the
Emperor of Shiny. When they had assimilated
this faot, a discussion arose as to which of them
was the cabman, and the younger of the two said
he wished he were a bird, and fell asleep with his
head on the pavement and his feet inside the
doorway. The waiter came along presently and
shut the door on his feet with a shook which
etopped the circulation, and the party woke un
fn-1 asked the flu*kay to come out and fight
100.000 rounds Toe waitu- excused himself
however, and lifted them into the cab and the
dliver hung on to the step behind and told the
hors 3 to go to sheol. The horse went a few yards
on the way and then fell asleep In the next street.
The cabman dropped off, and whispering mourm
fully that he was the Fmperor of Shiny and' that
he wanted to be interred under a spreading tree
he also slumbered. The two passengers slept
heavily inside, and the night passed peacefully.
Next morning an early policeman woke up the
procession and took it back to the club where it
was put to bed, while the driver was jerked away
to gaol and fined 40s. That’s all.
* * *
“It is stated on good authority that
Bishop Barry will probably tender his resignation
as Bishop of Sydney to the Anglican Synod in
April.”
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus
Co., which is now one of the biggest things in the
world, is aboub to water its stock.
The man we are about to speak of is what
is commonly called a cool customer. But he is an
uncommonly cool one. The thermometer is
always several degress below zero in his imme-
diate atmosphere. He went Into Cole’s Book Arcade
in Melbourne one day, and asked an assistant to
find him a copy o! a certain valuable book. The
assistant found it and said pleasantly, after the
usual manner of the book-liar : “You are luoky,
sir; this is the last copy we have.” “Ob it
doesn’t matter," replied the Iceberg; “ I’ll ’not
Ceprive you of it, I’il just sit down here and
read it.” And he took a chair, and sat down and
read with an unruffled brow. The assistant
wiped his fevered forehead, and then went feebly
away to attend to somebody else. After a while
the Glacier called him over, and said, in a tone of
severe remonstrance, “Young man, what is the
meaning of this? There are nob more than a
third of the leaves of this book cut. You can’t do
business that way, you know. Cut ’em at onoe,
please.” This was too much, even for the mild
assistant, and the denouement of the affair was
that the Ics Hummock was trundled out of the
place, exclaiming all the time that “ This was no
way to do business."
DOWN UPON PARSONS.
Alas! the poor old parsons—though we like not
to revile ’em,
It seams they find us subjects for the lunatic
asylum.
Then better live unorthodox—on Bible matters
hazy—
Than die in Holy Orders, leaving children that
are crazy.
Alas! the poor old parsons—they are fond of
getting married,
So it’s time a resolution was unanimously carried
Forbidding such a practioe, as the source of cruel
dangers
To their pledges of affeotion—thoss unhappy little
strangers l
Immortal William tells us that this world is mad,
my masters—
So it doesn’t want assistance from its too prolific
pastors,
Wnose children (we are shaking now our weary
head in sadness)
Inherit not that genius whioh is near akin to
madness.
Fare thee well, Most Reverend Barry,
You have got a “ call ’’ to go,
Here with us you must not tarry,
Long ago we told you so.
Well we know the ways of holy
Men who wear the sleeves of lawn,
Though the'r talk is meak and lowly,
They high places must adorn.
They will tell with air so saintly
Of the ways of Providence,
That the thought will press but faintly
That ’<is “ screw” that “calls” them hence !
Fare thee well, but not in sorrow,
As with you, so with the next,
“ Here to-day and gone to-morrow ”
Surely is our Bishops' text!
Dreaming.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Slowly, while the shadows creeping
Press the crimson from the sky,
Till the prisoned waters sleeping
Like a void of darkness lie,
And the night-winds rise and sweep on
Hill-sides that in blackness steepen,
Let me rove; while fancies deepen
All the soene’s solemnity.
Passing onwards, dreaming ever,
For a thousand visions glide
Weirdly down the vales that sever
Wooded side from wooded side ;
And the feet grow still in wonder,
As the gloom is pierced asunder
By the mystic thoughts that under
Bush and crag in lurking hide.
And, adown the outlook, shimmer
Strangely upwards through the night,
L'ghta that gleam and lights that glimmer
Lurid on the startled sight;
And the town, in distance glowing,
Seems with stars and meteors flowing—
Seems through heaven its lustre throwing
Like some constellation bright.
Glorious, radiant, all-pervading,
As the twilight dies, it springs ;
And the hills, in darkness fading,
Draw from view their shadowy things.
And the only sight is laden
With the splendour of an Aidenn—
Looks a lone and lustrous Aidenn
To the glad imaginings.
Dreaming thus, and only dreaming,
For the shades are cold and dead,
And the lights are feebly gleaming,
And a pallid lustre shed ;
And the town is worn with scheming,
And its Aidenn but a seeming,
And the echoes round it streaming
Quiver with a sound of dread.
Dreaming 1 Ay, and therefore dreaming,
For the wakening comes too soon,
And the change from real to seeming
Is our life’s most precious bnon.
Yet, who knows ? There may be for us
That shall swell our thrnkfal chorus
Clearer than in dreams that o'er us
Move with grand, majestic tune.
For our fathers dreamed before us,
And their dreams round us are strewn,
Real, achieved, completed for us,
On the rocks of Being hewn.
And, of all the fancies teeming
With the light of gladness beaming,
Soma, that now are evening dreaming,
May be more than dreams at noon.
J. A. ANDREWS.


If yon want a suit of clothe 3, which, for fit,
style and finish, cannot be beaten, goto Leuschner
and Maguire, 72 King-street.*
PFRSONAL ITEMS.
IKinnaird Rose no w edib3 the Brisbane
loubieb. , .
Me. Thomas Garrett is a member of tne
leforrn Club 1 ,
Another injustice to Ireland. Barry, tne
Langmaa, has kissed .the Blarney stone.
Tn the last year nine English parsons left
ortunei reaching to a total of £581,600. Of such,
Riuden, of Biyca and Rusden fame, is
jrlrging out a bock entitled “ Groans of the
tfaorls.” . .
A member of the N.S.W. Ministry has
he«n suffering much of late from a serious throat -
affection. His thorax gets very dry.
The Chinkles are boycotting our own
rrhadv and the O'Kane hoi sshold goddess lifts
up her voice and weeps for the cabbsgee man.
Michael Davitt writes that he has seen
Parnell and that his health is as good as ever it
™is The Tory organs have been set iv git round
that Parnell was morlbur cl.
Rich man Ormond, of Melbourne, is
at-ropcily in favour of Aust-alian education.
®iwAncate your children,” he says, “ where they
ft te going to spend their lives”
A new sport has been found In Sydney. It
„„ s ctg in watching Chief Justice Darley sit on
Sg Windeyer, who, relying on his eight years
jSSltyasa Judge. Eeems inclined to take the
presidentship of the Banco Court.
“Money” Miller’s father cairied the
0 f the 10th Regiment at Waterloo, and
hossed the marines of the convict ship Isabella to
notauy Bay in 1823. Thus yourg “Money
arrived on the scene of his future greatness.
Mr G H. Greene, the popular squatter
Tandra 'near Grenfell (N.S.W.), is a brother in-
,°f of Sir William Stawell, ex-Chief Justice of
Victoria. It would do an Irishman s heart good
Ij tear Squatter Greene
t an agiicultural dinner
eoite “Shamus O Brien.
The grandson of
larat, who was stabbed
,v Charlotte Corday m
793, has just become
.ankrupt in England, His
mly aecet was a despatch
,ox. His debts included
•go due to florists, £2O to
latters, £6O to tailors,
nd £B6 for wme. He is
narried to a woman with
3600 a year.
Bismarck swears by
jbampagre and porter
nixed. ’Tis a soft and
soothing tipple, br own to
;he initiated as black
m d tan." Empty a pint
settle of Guinness into a,
r>iver iug, aM a Quart cf
iiy champagne, raise the
jug to your parched lips
and drink slowly with
pour eyes closed mean-
while. The result sur-
paEseth the love of
woman.
Rev. Phillip Moses,
cf 'Victoria, is an enter-
prising man, and -knows
that it is good to adver-
tise. When he makes
■up his mir d to go to any
township to pound and
■expound the Gospel, he
-sends on a oircus ad-to
•tte local papers, headed
-in big caps: “Lookout,
Moses is coming ! Alter
-such a warning, the
people have only them-
•selves to blame if they
.don't get further inland.
'Captain W. 0. Ban-
•orofb, of the 16th Regi-
ment, who was A.D.C.
•to Sir Henry Barkly,
Governor -of -Victoria,
dn the early and
who married one of “Mo-
■ney" Miller’s daughters,
is now a Major-General,
tQn the occasion of his
wedding, Melbourne
d?u nch, then amore or lsss
lons publication, said that the
ras engaged on a new edition of Bancroft s
y of the United States. ~
, Julian Thomas, “the Vagabond
Melbourne for Europe shortly on behalf of
“. He will take up his headquarters in
ihSd TmorTSaT,'-"'“{“'X
Lunon's eye.
II the Melbourne P.M. of the won-
an," replied the Manx Dandieary, hut
[ d advise you not! ' „ w
f. Foster starts his career on the
ime Court Bench at t e t ‘ a pen-
. has to serve 15 years to order t; Bet a pen
he is bound to hold on till ho is 71. by wmcn
the defendant. By-and bye, when com
ense rules the roast, men will be ap
ed to the Bench at, say, 40
osea Goldstein, the 4ho
mech the
,ed to give mora nor seven-an -six on it.
ran Fairfield, late of the Argus, Is
SrHSs
Isadora wcra net very terrible to the -A irons staff
:enerally, but his no*ee to th'ra were, in the days
yhen he sometimes “led” the staff, and before
1 Brains ’ wie'ded the baton. Since o! the junior
eporters found Timotheus's notes harder to Iran-
cribe than their own shorthand. Once in a
eader he used the phrase, “heterogenous
yho’e.” but the comp, made it Norwegian
rtia’e ”
Rev. Charles R, Carrey, incumbent of
he Lower Clarence (N.S.W.), announces that he—
publishing Sir Henry Parkes’ genuine biography
or cheuUtion during hia lectures on Australia throughout
Peat Britain and Ireland, Carada »> d the United Sta e«, t 0
p’ly illustrate certain phases of colonial p >lkics and life,
rhis will indeed prove a sweeping advertisement
!or the colony. Mr. Currey also adds that—
It is a characteristically curious feature ofIN
,hat a large majority of those worshippers who now laud and
nagnify bUr Henry Parkes as little less than a demigod and
“under of the colony’s pro3cerity, would, five ye» rs
aave consigned him to summary burial, vehement anathe-
nas, and danced on his grave.
For laying a train to get material for
paragraphs there are few men to compare with
Samuel Vincent Winter, of Melbourne Herald.
Take this for example “ Sub-Inspector Larkin,
who was recently promoted from the position of
Sergeant, male his first appearance in his new
uniform in the Central Criminal Court this morn-
ing.” This is flaunting the red rag before the
bull in the most rookie s manner. It will be
aoeepted as a challenge by the Little Bourke-
street roughs-as Mr. Winter well knows-and
there will be a torn uniform, a hair-stiffening
paragraph in the Her ald, and six months, 'where
there is no beer sold, for somebody. Who will get
up to deny the power of the Press, after this ?
Our old friend, the Very Rev. John
Alexander Dowie, late tf the Fitzroy (Vic ) Free
Christian Tabernacle, faitb healer, liver complaint
cure! on the premises, rheumatics eradicated
whilst you wait, &o„ &c, has packed his
little vali:e, taken a sandwich in his raii-
pocket, and skipped for the land of wooden
nutmegs and hickory ham 3. John Alexander is
“Jack” of Australia, so he has migrated to
America, taking his faith-healing plant and his
YET ANOTHER WAY OF LOOKING AT IT.
PREMIER P. (to Goddess of Justice): "I'VE BROUGHT YOU A NEW HUSBAND, MADAME.'
JUSTICE: "OH, ISN’T HE MUCH TOO OLD?”
JUSTICE: " YES BUT WHEREL L YOU BE WHEN I’M IN MY PRIME?"
shilling photographs in tow. Business has been
very slack in Victoria of late, and, though John
faith cured with all the modern improvements at
the lowest current rates, he could barely knook
out an honest crust However, he hopes
to do better with his little museum in the
States, and, no doub\ he will, if he
tises well, wears large paste diamonds, and call
himself ‘-Professor.”
Alexander Fawkner Sullivan, the Mel-
bourne Club man who was a co-respondent in the
great divorce suit, M alp is v. Malpas, heard in
Melbourne not long since before Chief Justice
Higinbotham, has just died in London. S'lihvan
was a wealthy squatter, owning big stations ou
the Paroo (N.S.W.) and Darling Downs (QJ. He
was weil-known in sporting circles, and when the
events occurred, years sgo, on accmut ° f which
he was made a party to the Malpas divorce suit
he was a gay young spark of six-and-tweaty, who
used to ride his own horses at country races.
Sullivan was found guilty of adultery by the jury,
but the case was carried before the E ull Court,
aad a new trial was ordered on the ground that
the verdict as it affected Sullivan was against the
evidence. The principal points raised against
this co-respondent were that on one occasion
when Mrs. Malpas and other ladies were sleeping
in an apartment in whioh they were separated
from Sullivan's only by a partition, Mrs.
M, and Sullivan threw things across at
one another, and that on another occasion
Mrs. M. rode in a buggy with Mr. S. up-country
in N.S.W., and overshot the station (purposely as
alleged! and got rid of the rest of the party travel-
ling with them. When the Full Court ordered a
new trial, Mr. Malpas agreed to dispense with
Mr Sullivan as a co respondent (Malpas s groom
was a second), and to state that he withdrew from
the suit without any stain on his character. Had
the verdict against Sullivan bean sustained, his
share of the petitioner’s costs would have amounted
to £BOOO or £9OOO. As it was, the case cost him
POLITICAL
POINTS
South Australia goes for a surplus in her
next Budget. Protection is the culprit.
Parke j’s policy Is bo ‘ 1 hinterdooce” a lot of
Bills, and then withdraw when hoppurtooniiy
hoffera.
In the N.S.W. Assembly last week
Minister Garrett m’ssed Mr. Dibba' head with a
jug of water.
8642 people own 46,500.000 acres of Great
Britain, and have an average income of
£45 000,000.
The Labour Congress meets in Brisbane
on 2nd Ma”ch, The question of a labour party
will be mooted.
The Knights of Labour at Pittsburg, Car-
negie’s mining town, are attacking and driving
out the niggers, -
England boasts cf her Freetrade, and de-
rives two-thirds of her revenue from Customs and
'Excise. How English !
The ex- It gal-aivistr of the Parkes Go-
vernment has compiled a treatise on the new
N.S.W. Bankruptcy Act.
On every ton of English steel-rails a
royalty cf over 10s. is pa'd to the landlord who
“owns" the ore and the coal which the Deity
created.
I The effusive Haynes, M.P., was hit with
badly-preserved egg wbile speaking at New-
jwn. General sympathy with the egg has been
xpressed.
The Victorian aboriginals decreased by
47 last year ; there are now only 795 in the whole
olony. The Chosen Race could not get rid of the
ianaanites at that rate.
Virgil Power, after coquetting with a
cheme of a new Protection daily in Brisbane and
nother in Townsville, is thinking of contesting
Voollongabba, a Brisbane suburb.
Thadeus O’Kane has gone for Land
rationalisation, and the Northern Miner is
arcastioally enquiring: “Is the Laud Question
rorth considering? 1 (in weakly instalment.).
Woolcock the Wonderful, Griffith's private
eoretary and the glory of Brisbane masher sis
evislng the Queensland Statutes at a screw which
carcsly pays for a fellah's gloves, don’t you know.
Parkes says that ‘'to be a Protectionist a
nan must be Btupid ” That being 83 - xr l^r^ :s
itan'Ts convicted of having foisted upon N.S.W.,
ks Chief Justice, ' an exceedingly stupid man in
;he person of the late Sir James Martin.
John Davies spelt January “January,
md that was why they put him on the Education
Committee of the Rxhibittou of 18/9, and it is be-
sause Parkas spelt Government C-or-r-u p-
t-i-o n " that the said John is now an M.L.C,
The Melbourne Tramway men speak of
the mean crowd that flooded into their places
and broke the strike, as “ the Sydney scab 3. It
is only Freetrade workmen, they remark, who
pull she bread out of their fellows mouths and
eat ib.
During 1886 California exportad £7 ( )0,000
worth of fruit and N.S. Wales imported £lOO 000
worth. Our old friend Freetrade again! Ihe
native fruit business is not worth developing at
this rate, and that’s why Sydney fruib 13 so poor
and so dear.
Salisbury replies to the Orange Lodge of
Ipswich (Q) by an autograph letter, thanking
them for a resolution in favour of his buccaneer-
Ilng Coerc'on policy. The old man would go off
his head if he could sea what the Orange Lodge
of Ipswich (Q ) is like.
Gladstone, in his great Dover speech,
which equals his best performances in the past,
spoke of “the old obstinate, uncured, but, I tru-t,
not incurable, OrangemeD, who have been for
three generations the greatest plague of Ireland
and the source of it s greatest miechie*.”
They’ve had to start relief works, after
all, for the London unemployed, but the Tory in-
spectors are very particular, and no one can earn
Id. an hour at the new Camberwell national park
unices he’s got a good character. The Hughes-
Hallett crowd are great on good character.
“ The importance of an office cannot be
measured in & s. d., but by the possibilities which
it affords of doing good and by the honour it con-
fers.” Noble sentiment by Mr. Riognose Wise,
ex-Attorney-General of N.S.W P.S —Mr. Wise
resigned his billet because the “screw” wasn’t
sufficiently lavish.
Father M‘Glynn, who quarrelled with the
Pope over Henry George's Land Nationalsadon
schemes, lately preached, at New York, an elo-
quent sermon on Irish affairs. In it he referred
to the Australian Cardinal as “ that Castle pre-
late, Archbishop Moran.” Which accounts for
the gubernatorial milk in the St. Mary's ejeoanut
during Centennial week.
Premier Griffith, of Queensland, refused
to give the Brisbane unemployed, whom he had
brought out at the public expense per his subsidised
emigration line, any. relief works to keep them
from starving. But he issues rat iocs and railway-
passes to the Chinese who were expeTed for
Illegally working on the Clermont gold-fields.
Psalmyell's leg-rolling parsons did ib. The Loard
loveth the cheerful Chinkle.
The Argus advertises that a certain
steamer “ carries a surgeon and stewardess. Also
a cow.” After that we are prepared to hear that
it carries the Argus man.
Down at Ballarat
there is an old miner
who owns a dog, which
is alsi well up in years
and is the worst-kicked
animal in Victoria. Ever y
time the dog looms on the
horizon its owner gives
chase and he will run a
mile for the satisfaction
of landing his boot in
the faithfnl quadruped’s
ribs. The history of
this animosity dates hack
many years. At a time
when both the dog and
his master were a good
deal younger than they
are now the one was fos-
I [eking near Ballarat and
ha other was tied up to
log in the near vicinity
le scratched out a deep
iole alongside the log in
ourse rf time, and when
lis proprietor gave up
he locality in despair and
noved on, another fel-
owcame alor g and drove
iis pick into the ehal-
ow sinking which the
;anlne had left behind
lim. Two inches below
:he surface he discovered
i stupendous nugget and
rolled in wealth for the
rest of his life, and when
the miserable prospector
heard of it he cursed the
dog as the cause of his
undoing, and kicked it
ever afterwards for not
gcra* ehing that hole a
little deeper.
One of the most
touching little incidents
in the history of the late
experiments to remedy
the N.S.W. rabbit lest is
Mr. Stanley’s failure to
discover microbes. Drs.
Ellis and Butcher a e
scientists who have de-
voted their lives to the
minute investigation of
dieease. Mr. Stanley,
however, is a N.S.W.
Government veterinarian
and in this capaoity is, of course, in the mind of
every right-thinking citizen, entitled to give an
opinion which knocks the evidence of scientific
research iato a cooked hat. He “ only wishes
that he could give the doctors a more favourable
opinion,” and consequently they, if they know their
places, will metaphorically wilt and die. It doesn t
matter to Stanley that rabbits keep on dying; what
he requires is the festive microbe, and until one
walks up, grasps him by the hand, tafces his bat
off and mutters, “Mister Stanley, I presume!
he refuses to be convinced. Then, again, he
wanders about the paddock at Tintinallogy cry-
ing, “ Bring out your dead. Trob out your exter-
minated rabbit-pest 1 Produce the extinoted
rodent! ” The soft sou h wind rustling through
the gum-leavss is his only answer. Satisfied that
the corpses are not,.he retires, and then, gapping
out their final sob, the rabbits crawl from their
subterranean homes, and, giving one last shiver,
die by hundreds in the sunlight. It is a most
peculiar thing to note the down those rabbits and
microbes seem to have on Stanley. They don d
seem to recognise what is due to a Government
veterinarian.
Out of 670 members of the House of Com-
mons only three are named Smith.
From the London Financial News :
“ Pritchard Morgan has an organ,
The Times now beats his dram ;
The Standard plays his tambourine,
The Globe joins in the rum-turn-turn.
“ All alone on a big trombone,' ‘
The Echo blows in sweet,
And Welshmen think that golden stone
May be pi eked up in the street.”
Something very rough has happened to
the British Tory party and the blessed Queen. At
Dundee (Scotland) a Home Ruler has won a bye-
election by 3600 votes; at Edinburgh, the strong-
hold of Scottish Toryism, the Unionist member
resigned because he had been converted to. Hnre
Rule, and was promptly re-elected on his new
basis; and at Southwark (Eng.) another Home
Ruler has been returned by a majority of 1191
votes over the Tory howler of the hour.


i /TDiAmef# ttfPftrAKce
TffAVE SHM** -***
/'} rfye.r e rea.ffy ?
o/«f s '??e/ //Are c/o/c «*
F/rr/Sf* Coa/Fjtsso* 2>/&$S - fn CerFa//) o/
/F. Wfyy J~ /«“ r/d Ffo?k c.Ffoy
yj/JiGt/ coa.6 tyy 01-^.xxF'^
“ fy* °y
Fi-c*. of e.
/ps a. c/r ( «? s /
jmpL'i
V
c CA
>J O
V j>X
v <<\ X
*vrv"
/Tmx/,#c OID 2iy/?D Zr yw ivsil Coaaf o«r-
-(Swf ' A*v 6 Ay '-r Aqy Cl/r~/J 7~ 7>Ay /\U 6rS
(S/y ot £> CFAS - lAy A/or sSuCH A—- Z/>/OT /
)fiece^ 10 ? *l^
n 7Lsfe* rS>
» /vep*? ewJ
Z//OOUS- Y* you >
OKCIfS
Things in General.


The Bishop ana the Secretary of the Church of England Association,
■wr hotel
Cl IXCU I ati Vh
jf/ g oO o . ou<r. «r*» 'O 00? iftrOTtro »
"A Pulpy A«y X)Trl£R
%At\t “ ~ X
tariff?
/
fsf s ( 4, V/
'?* ’
/- . * / a, '°X
'' ' r *)& jy
*<? 3%S
*
Ou/.
,s
“
»
, oT fHS Of TH[ Po'VOf rf/t
- Xsss:
‘tfrfaonfy Y°^j
Yu> oa. t I
e j?arie rS h
Said a Low Church Secretary
To a High Churoh Luminary,
“ Will you give to me a lioense for to preaoh ?"
the High Church Luminary
To the Low Churoh Secretary,
“ What doctrines are you going for to teach ?
“ I’ve a very great suspicion,
Should I give you such permission,
You would preach some things your Bishop can’t indorse ;
From your Low Church point of view
You might say what wain’t true—
For instance, call ME Snob, which would be coarse.
“ Then, you see, you’re secretary
To a party voluntary,
What's opposed to Reredoseses and sioh ;
And your license you might usa
High Church notions to abuse—
You'see my diffloulty ? That’s the hitoh!’'
'A GHASTLY GLOBETROTTER


FBECKIEBAHE.
The unparalelled success of this preparation in removing
Freckles. Tan, Sunburn, *c . has already caused a number
of unscrupulous persons to place worthless imitations on the
market. Beware of such, and see the written signature F.
Moore Clements, in red ink across label. Reject all othersi
or get itfdirect, post free, for 2s. lOd. in N.S.W. Btamps,
from Washington H. Soul and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney, or
the inventor F. Moore Clements 141 King-street, New-
town, N.S. W. Please report all cases of attempted substi-
tution, when immediate legal proceedings will be oom-
■m«rcfd by F. M. Clements, Newtown, N.S.W. *
The natural loveliness of our harbour has been theitherae
of man; a writer, and the rich and lovely tints of the
Earth's flora have been so cleverly imitated by the artist
that looking on the Rose Trays, and other beauteous goods
of Bray Bros,. 402 and 404 George-street, one hardly feels
sure whether the flowers are real or artificial. Table and
Rooms can be furnished beautiful'yfrom their places.*
Worth Knowing.—James’ Detective Cold Water Soap
has made a reputation for itself quite surprising. In the
“ wash-tub, ’ its patrons declare it far surpasses all other
soaps for quickness, ease, and perfection. Its cures in skin
diseases, &0., are wonderful—scurvey, prickly heat, all kinds
of sores, bad feet, horses with greasy heels, cows with sore
teats, mangy dogs, are all subject to its removing power,
while it is sold at common soap price. The genuine testi-
monials which Mr. James has from ministers, missionaries,
gentlemen of position, working men and their wives, are un-
eniable. Over 200 grocers in Sydney keep it, and all com-
munications get prompt.attention from Mr. H. James, the
maker, at 763 George-street, Sydney.*
Stud? your own Interest by using PemeH’s Snow-white
Patent Bollkr Fi.our It is made in the colony from
the best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery,
The analitv is exceptionally good, and the prioe very low *
Society
S’kcj the Yogel Ministry collapsed In
N. Z. ic has been a cold day for the Civil Service.
Everybody has been retrenched within an inch of
his life ; the meat fer the office-cat is now de-
ducted from the salaries instead of being charged
to the Consolidated Revenue, the clerks have to
bring their lunch in a newspaper instead of going
out for i”, and the time spent in consumirg the
sandwich is estimated and valued and initialled
and then charged against the pension to which
each man is entitled when he has bean about 800
years in the servica ; only the heads of depart
ments are allowed to assume two clean collars a
week lest they should demoralise the office by
becoming suddenly and violently autocratic and
by putting on airs ; and the boys travel by cattle-
truck when they go away on their annual holi-
day. Consequently it is now the winter of the
Treasury dude's discontent, and be goes about
with his head hanging down and his legs trailing
sorrowfully behind him. The other day one of the
choice youths of the service, worn out by yanking
and straining and hauling at the machine of State
for 12 months, was starting for a fortnight’s travel,
and the affable Yogel met him cn the wharf and
Bhook hands in that pleasant, condescending way
of his which always breaks a man up so that his
eye-glass falls into the soup. “ Going South, Mr.
Brown, I suppose ? ” said Sir J alius with a smile
that a camel might have got through on his way
to the Kingdom of Heaven. “ Yes, Sir Julius, ’’
“Ah, Dunedin, I suppose,” rejoined the ex-
Treasurer, with a far-away look in his eyes like
one whose thoughts were turned back to the days
of old long since; “ Pleasant place, isn’c it ?
Beautiful scenery. I spent some happy years
there myself. You are going to Dunedin, aren’t
you ? ” “ Yes, Sir Julius." “ Ah, you couldn’t do
better. And, I say —— ” here Vogel’s voice sank
to a husky, impressive whisper expressive of
Christian sympathy and deep emotion —“ Red
Lion Hotel—Staffordetreet—Clean beds—one
shilling.” And with that he wandered slowly
down the wharf, and left a flabbergasted dude
gazing after him. That young man has now re-
solved to vote his hardest for Sir Julius at next
election. During the days of the Yogel Ministry
he used to put up at the Grand, but a few months
of Atkinson’s rule has reduced him so low that
his old chief has to tell him with tears in his voice
where to get a clean bed for one shilling.
# * »
Duncan Gillies told Baron Brassey that
all the influential billets in Victoria were held by
gentlemen devoted to the British Crown, who
made a point of proclaiming their loyalty on every
possible occasion, eo as to keep Democracy well
covered up. When Duncan artlessly explained
how the Imperial game is played he never thought
Brassey would give him away to a London inter-
viewer ; but the dull Baron saw nothing singular
in Duncan’s admission. To him it seemed per-
fectly in accordance with grand old British prece-
dents that the growl of the many should be
drowned by the roar of an interested few. By the
way, Isn’t it about time that Gillies was knighted ?
• * *
The Sydney Morning Herald states that
at the local Working Girls Festival the girls were
allowed to disport “ Even in the gardens immedi-
ately adjacent to Government House." Pooh I
why shouldn’t “ work wirls ” be as free to Govern-
ment 'Ouse as their titled aunts and uncles and
cousins who have made money by quicker if more
devious me ms than the honest ouvrieres of
Sydcey employ? Even as it is, any “work
girl ” can, if her soul be small enough and her
dress decent, attend her Ladyship's “reoeptions”
and strut through Govingment ’Ouse side by side
with My Lord and My Lady t wice per month.
Yet when she is invited to buns and flat pop under
the vice-regal gum-tree the S.M.H. whispers, awe-
stricken, that she was given the run of the front
garden “even.” Everything depends on that
word “even.’ Ib is indeed sublimely “Heraldic.”
* * *
Amongst the distinguished fraternity of
ex-colonial bishops, who honour London with
their pious presence, Is Charles Perry, D.D., by
the Grace, &c., ex-prelate of Melbourne. Charle3
came out to the Southern colony in 1847, and made
way a few years ago for Bishop Moorhouse. We
mention Dr. Perry just now because we are re-
minded by an old chum of a little speech delivered
by him a quarter of a century ago. One of his
clerical assistants was a worthy gentleman who
was reputedly a wealthy man, owning houses and
lands and other solid things not generally con-
sidered consistent with the poverty of the
Apostles. But, notwithstanding his wealth the
reverend assistant had no “official” residence,
and a meeting of parishieners was called to take
the mat er into consideration. At this meeting
Dr. Perry appeared and made a pathetio appeal
for funds to erect a vicarage for their “beloved
friend who had not a roof to cover his head,” &o ,
&o. Many of the congre ration sniggered at the
appeal, as ib was a well-known fact that the
reverend landlord's agent in collecting his rents
was accompanied regularly each Monday by a
bailiff, and if the co'n were not forthcoming a
“ man was left in possession.” Ah—j mb for form’s
sake, you know —ah —good morning, and God
bless youl
• • •
Here is an obituary from the Jehoshaphat
oolumn of a Southern paper
Loving father, true and kind,
He was to us in heart and mind.
Peaceful husband, too, as well,
When he upon this earth d ! d dwell.
“ Peaceful husband ”is a master-stroke. What a
world of meaning there is in it 1 “ Loving hus-
band” is the usual term in this old-fashioned
elegiac quatrain (you will at once perceive from
the turn cf the foregoing sentence that we have
been giving a good deal of our nights and days to
Addison lately). The lorn widow who paid half-
a-orowD, or whatever the sordid charge is, for
the insertion of the above memorial, with the
light touch of genius made it human and natural,
and, so to speak, up to date. She knew thst the
loving husband of the obituaries Is in the habit,
while alive, of breaking his wife’s head once a
fortnight, or thereabouts, and then —with vinous
breath, and the ready tears that spring from rum
in his eyes—trying to kiss it well again. Mark,
too, the flue discrimination between the character
of the lamented as a father and as a husband. He
was a “loving” father, but only a “peaceful”
husband. Yet that was saying much as husbands
go in these times. He evidently did not Emash
the time-payment furniture or retire into a back
room to hack at his larnyx with the carving-knife
when there was no money fer beer in the house.
If there was no money for beer he simply tried to
get it on credit, and if that was a failure he went
to bed and drew the counterpane over his eyes
and was heard of to more that night. He
was, also, a silent drinker and never tore around
the terrace in the dead of night with a poker in
his hand howling for somebody to come out and
be killed. No ; when he drank till he could hold
no more, he gurgled out a blessing upon every-
body, hiccuped a prayer to heaven, and then, like
a gorged frrg, curled himEelf up in any odd corner
handy and made no more noise than a haystack
till morning. Also he was never given to tooting
on the trombone, nor seized with the flute-diEease.
He was exactly what the obituary Eays a peace-
ful husband who never made a noise, except when
he was eating. This is the sort of man who
deserves a more circumstantial tribute to his
virtues than that given by his poor sorrowing
widow. Pass the muffled Jews’-harp :
He never smashed Ihe grand piano.
He never broke a pot or pan;
AH, who read, by these lines can know
He was a very peaceful man.
He died as quiet as a goat,
And made no rattle in his throat.
We scarce had known that it was death
But that—we missed his robust breath.
By the way, when speaking of epitaphs, we
wonder what sort of a legend of gilded grief and
FORCE OF HABIT.
BARBER: “SHAVE, OR HAIR CUT?
praise will be inscribed on the vault of a lately-
deceased millioniare. A suggestion might be taken
from that passage in Gil Bias describing where
the bag of doubloons is buried, with a headstone
over it bearing the inscription: “ Here lies the
soul cf the licentiate Pedro Garcia."
• * *
Governor Loch’s visit to the Queens cliffe
(Vic.) Battery the other day led to something that
was pretty near a revolution, acoompanied by in
subordination, riot, sultry language, and breach
of the peace, and aggravated by a tendency to
darn his Excellency’s eyes. It was race-day at
Geelong, and the soldiers had hired a trap and in-
tended to imbibe long beers on the course and bet
on the bobtailed nag, and theD, just as they were
ready to start, Sir Henry came down, and they
had to march and oountermaroh and lug heavy
ordnance about under the solar rays, and haul at
bulky ammunition, and do all sorts of superhuman
shoving that there was no sort of necessity for.
Presently they begun to ask “ wet the old bloke
meant by this ’ere,” and why he didn't come down
and do the dashed job himself, and then there
arose smothered murmurs about shying mud at
’is ’ead, and at last half the corps arose with a
snort of sedition, and demanded to know where
he bought that hat, and uttered other disloyal sen-
timents ThBy were promptly hauled off to the
guard-room to await their doom, and next morn-
ing at 8.40 they were blown up by an officer and
told that they must walk a chalk-line for the rest
of their natural lives. For our own part, our
sympathies are with the afflicted troops. We
don’t see why any Governor should come down
and make a lot of men at 15s. a week haul big
guns out, and then haul them back again and do
the goose-step and perpetrate other fooleries ;
besides, the rules of civilised warfare ccrnpel one
nation, before making an attack upon another, to
write politely requesting to be informed when
their de f enders will be disengaged and ready to
receive them, and Sir H. Loch might at least have
been as courteous.
* * *
This iB not in every sense a strictly moral
item, but at a time like this, when the hog of
sin is wallowing in the tpiing of life, it is hard to
fix up enough moral Items to fill the paper. It
ocourred at Auckland (N.Z.), and the local organ
described it as an “amus ng incident." The
fellow who runs that paper has strange ideas on
the subject of amusement. It was the day when
the San Francisco steamer tailed, aid a local
tradesman, having wandered down to the wharf,
thought he would step on board for a tour of in-
spection. He had one foot on the gangway and
the other in the air when a cheeky boy in uni-
form told him that visitors weren’t allowed on
board. Having an admiration for shipping, and
being buoyed up by the recollection that he had
left a swivel-eyed youth of great integrily to take
care of the shop In his absence, he next sat down
oa a coil of ropes and proceeded to run his eye
over the vessel from an outsider's point of view,
but his eye hadn’t run long bifore it concussed
violently against his wife, who was standing on
the deck. He gave her the usual meaningless
marital grin, to which she coldly responded with
a very formal bow. He then reared up and reared
through his hards, “What was she doing on
the ship if visitors weren’t allowed 2” The
lady only dived out of sight without a
reply, and her husband, with one wild
thought of how could he pay a housekeeper
to look after him, rushed the ship, and started cn
a search for the lady. He found her on all-fours
under the saloon table, weeping, and lifting her
out he asked her what was she doing, and why
didn’t she come off when visitors weren’t allowed?
She only wept on ; but when he told her to come
off with him, she dried her eyes on her bonnet-
strings, and led him to infer that wild horses
wouldn’t make her budge from the spot she stood
on. At that moment the last bell rang, and the
Auckland shopman, with a cold light in his eye,
seized his giddy better-half in his arms, and ran
off the ship with her amidst roars of unfeeling
laughter. They went home together in silence,
and, on arriving there, he Bternly lugged her up-
stairs and sent her to bed, after which he locked
up her bonnet, boots, and stockings in a cupboard,
not necessarily for publication but as a guarantee
of good faith, and also turned tae key upon her.
Then he went out to make enquiries, and learned
that, owing to his prompt action, another trades-
man was eloping alone across the ocean. How
that other man feels about it is not yet known,
but he will probably express himself on a post-
card when he gets to ’Frisco.
• • *
Old diggers and others would be glad to
know why, in the last issue of Ihe Picturesque
Atlas of Australasia, Hargreaves is repre-
sented as discovering gold in a tall hat and a long-
tailed coat. Anybody who knows anything at all
must be aware that when the early Australian
pioneers went out to discover gold they always
did it in evening dress, and future artists would
do well to make a note of this,
* * *
There was a vacancy not long ago for a
council-clerk and librarian in a borough adjacent
to Sydney, salary £2OO a year; and 112 men
rushed madly for the billet. They were mostly
residents in the locality; they had lots of testi-
monials, every one of them, and at least 100 out
of the 112 fully expected to get the appointment.
But. none of them did. At the last moment a new-
chum, whom nobody had ever seen or heard of,
came In atd was selected right off. He had no
testimonials as to Australian experience or any-
thing else, but he had a letter signed “Caring-
ton,” which set forth that the Barcn of that name
aw-knew Ihe bearer, and would bs—aw—
yaw Ya-V. He merely said ihat he —aw- knew
bm and nothing more. But that was quPe snfli-
cen . He got the billet right away.
* * *
fF my husband, William He-ry , does not return
within HI days I will marry.— Susannah .
[Sydney Evening paper.]
That’s all. Perhaps the nasty newspaper people
wouldn’t ineert any more for aixp3Ece, so Su-
sannah had to crowd her appeal into that brief
space. All! but how much of force and meaning
that sixpenn’orth of pathos contains I
* * *
The Duke of Manchester organised a
prospecting party before he left. It is to examine
the mineral fields of Queensland and pat the
Duke and the other Dukes “ at home” into a good
thing or two. That’s what these Tory globe-
trotters come here for and put up at the local
Government Houses,
* * *
A N.Z. solicitor named Brassey fcas filed-
his shovel. Not his pick and shovel, mind you.
Had he done that he’d have owned a Sunbeam
and raked in some half-crowns.
* * *
Good Friday is just about here again
Every man carries his cross on Good Friday,
Now a-days, however, nobody carries his cross
without his bun.
* * *
Seeing the advertisement of the sale of
Mr. Edward Terry’s horses, which took place the
other day at Sydney, reminds us of the time when
Mr. Terry used to run two nsg3 at Randwick
named Feu de Joie and Pomme de Terre. Of
course the ring-men mangled the names, and you
would hear them yelling, “ I’ll lay Few de Joey!
Who wants to back Potnmy-duTerry ?” They
used to tbirrk they had the last name right because
he belonged to Terry, and Pommy-du-Terry seemed
only a reasonable conclusion. How we have heard
them mash names up at Randwick ! “ I’ll lay the
Cup an' durdle—Pennylcap and Veronikew 1”
(Penelope and Veronique.) “ I'll back the field
against Eagalyte (Egalite). Here’s ten to one
Jimmy the Virgin ” (Gemma di Yergy). In fact
one owner who had a colt called Gemma di Vergy
had to change his name to The Bellringer, as
nothing but “ Jimmy the Virgin” would go down
with the talent.
* * #
Miss Terry, who is going to England with
her father, Mr Edward Terry, will be able to witch
the British world with horsewomanehip.
* * *
Ingenuous advt. from the S.M.H
TADY, Ashfield, would take two Gentlemen, share
room, 3 minutes’ from station; no other boarders,
moderate terms. Address Y. 0., Post-offloe, Ashfield.
Y. C. 1 Young Christian, no doubt.
* * *
Big fortunes are being made by land®
speculation in Victoria. One young fellow, a
well-known estate agent, soma time since bought
40 acres of land ia the vioinity of Pentridge for
£45 an acre—that is to say, for £l9OO, Last week
he refased £90,000 for the blook. Mr. R. G. Ford*
who left the Victorian Railway Department some
time ago on compensation, invested his retiring
allowance, a comparatively insignificant sum, id
land, half of which he has iust sold for £40,000
• » *
A “ Sudden-Death Club ” has just bseil
organised in Philadelphia, and ia reported to be
prospering. The members all have heart disease,
or some other aliment which ia liable to kill them
off at any moment, and candidates who3B diseases
are likely to hang fire for a long time aie not
eligible. Consumptives, for instance, are politely
but firmly declined, for a consumptive doesn’t
generally drop down in the street, and even men
of an apoplectic turn are regarded somewhat
doubtfully for fear they should not be apoplectic
enough to suit the rules and regulations. The
Club doesn’t sit up by the bedside of a sick mem-
ber, for the membars don’t go off that way ; they
simply eib and glare with a stony at their
fellow-clubmen, and when they are shaken up it
is discovered that they are dead. Men with can-
cer are generally rejected ; for one thing, they are
not Hab!e to die in the house, and, for another,
their hollow groanings tend to interrupt the fes-
tivities Even intending suicides are blackballed,
for exparienci has shown that the intending
suicMe generally die 3 prematurely cf old age, 40'
years after his grandson is grown up; but the
man with the ossified aorta and the huge aneurism
is received with acclamation, and there i ■ a warm
weloome for anybody who can produce a certifi-
cate proving that he mustn’t run after an omnibus
unless he wishes somebody to reali-e his insurance
policy.
* o *
People had better be careful what they do
in these days or they will find themselves in the
lunatic asylum before they have time to say Sir
John Robertson. A Melbourne butoher was tent
to Yarra Bend only the other day—and for what,
think you ? Well, be went into a chemist's shop
for a mixture, and, “on being given the medicine,
which was to be taken internally, he commenced
rubbing his legs with it ” A most glaring piece
of good sense, we should say. That man, instead
of being ldcked up as ina-1, should have been im-
mediately elected President of the Board of
Health. If all medicines were used in the way
in which this poor butcher used his there would
A woman’s patience 1 'Tis a wondrous thing,
And for its ditto ever vainly seeks.
Behold the proof—Susanp ah promises
To wait for absent hubby three whole weeks !
He may, for aught we know, be not much chop—
A s ’gainst his excellence his absence speaks ;
And yet, such as he is, Susannah eays
She will wait for him for three weary weeks !
He may have often ’neath the blankets crawled,
With feet as cold as Aides snowy peaks ;
He may have been a Primrote Leaguer, yet
Susannah will wait for him three whole weeks.
Susannah may be lovely as the dawD,
Beauty may dwell upon her rounded cheeks,
Imploring swains in fiock3 may ask her band,
And yet for William she will wait three weeks 1
Your hand, Susannah, if it weighs a ton 1
Since old Ulyisss with his gladsome Greeks
First tried Troy wait no woman ever yet
Her absent husband mourned for three whole
weeks!


Bverybody »ay»—and what eTerybody layi mmi be true—
that Pennell’* Snow-whit* Patbnt Roller Flour U the
best in the market *
Everybody should use Pemell’s latest, best Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
When next you bake try Pemell'B B vow-white Roller
Flour, and your bread will be as white as snov.
seen b* a depre s’on in the trade cf whioh Under-
taker Melville is such an ornament,
* # *
The following advert ! sement appeared In
Melbourne Ag e a few days ago:—“Diant—
Keep appointment, sentenced to dealh A B.”
“ Diaat ’ is, no doubt, the hangman. Or, per-
haps, the “best man ” It, may bi Diant’s gloomy
humour to intimate in this way that he is going
to get married.
0 0*
A solicitor stated in the Melbourne Dis-
trict Court a we 'k or two ago that “crowds of
mashers congregated at the corner of Collins and
Swanaton streets day after day, but no action was
taken againsttherr.” Hsisintoogreata hurry. One
of these days actions wi 1 be taken against some of
them —for breach of promise. Bub perhaps he
knows their sort. After al 1 , you can’t realise much
out of vacancy stating through an eyeglass.
* * *
Minister C.'arke is going to reduce the
‘ 1 tucker ”of prisoners In the NS. W. gaols. If the
Parkes’ Government are to stick to office retrench-
ment must take place. Perhaps Clarke has had a
wrinkle from the old friends of his younger days
in Melbourne Inspector Pewtre’s once stated
that the prisoners in Pentridge were fed better
than he could afford to feed himself, and a con-
stable at St. Hilda has alleged in court that he
always knew a criminal who had just come out of
gaol the moment he caught him by the arm—the
scoundrel was in such spier dif condition. If you
asked Dr. M’Crea, who, for a quarter of a cen-
tury was prison doctor in Melbourne, what he
thought of prison dietary, he’d tell you that
Pentridge Prison and Melbourne Gaol were plaoes
where sybarites abounded and luxury was
rampant.
# • *
If there’s one thing on earth that riles
Father Huggard, of abduction and Privy Counoil
fame, more than another, it is to see collies and
sheep dogs in the pews and benches at ohurch.
One day he thus delivered himself from the altar
at Bourke ‘ Me brethern, it’s very indecorous
to allow your domestic animals to follow you to
church. Olve called yer attintion to this import-
ant matter several times before, but without
effect, and now I’m going to take the law into me
own hands. Mark me ! 11l lay poyzin for yer
dogs ! So take ,” but at this moment the eyes
of his reverence glanced to his feet, and there he
found a mangy cur sniffing about right under his
nise. Father Huggard took no time for reflection,
but having stroked his chin as if to nerve him
to the deed, he drew his right No. 11 and sent the
yelling and astounded brute into the middle of the
congregation. The collection was then made.
* # *
A lighter collided with Sir W. J. Clarke’s
yacht Janet, in Hobson’s Bay, and sent a ohunk
of that superior craft down into the deep blue sea.
We guess the lighter was the heavier of the two
vessels.
* * *
The Chinese Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation held a soiree in St. Andrew’s Church, Pitt-
street, Sydney, the other evening. The chief
object of this society is the dissemination of
parsley and sewage swollen cabbages among the
Australian heathen.
* « •
Apropos of servant girls and jealous wives,
an afflicted husband remarks that the thorn in his
flesh considers ngly maids the most dangerous
She argues this way: My husband makes love to
the pretty girls, while the ugly ones make love to
him,
• • *
A lady bicyclist at work looks like a
bicyclist that weats an improver.
*
Tight lacing, large bustles, and high hats,
are doomed in Paris. “Madge” writes from
London that “ the hump at the bark of dresses is
fast diminishing, and the protuberances are only
worn by the sort of women who love exaggeration
in dress, and always cling fondly to absurdities
ard eccentricities, seeing in them their only
chance to be what they call stylish."
* * 0
It is now alleged among the upper-class
Chinese in Sydney that Qaong Tart’s gifts to
the N.S.W, Premier did not come as official pre-
sents from “ an official high in the service of the
Emperor," but were merely private offerings sent
by General Bang Hi and Consul Hue Brick such as
any other Chinese gentleman would forward to
another who had entertained him as becometh a
fellow countryman.
o*o
Mr. Boucicault has vaioly appealed against
an older cf Sir James Hannen postponing the
hearing of h!s wife’s divorce suit for six months.
Which wife is the old gentleman talking about ?
Has the pale, slim angel with the yellow hair
wearied of her Dion, or was he joined by Holy
Church to the first Mrs. 8., and, if so, what about
bigamy ? This is getting exciting.
o*o
Never speak of a woman as “ a divorced
woman.” It is much more polite to say “an un-
married woman,”
* * *
Lord Caringfon was accorded two votes of
thanks at the annual meeting of Sydney Hospital.
One was for being a Baron and the other for con-
descending to be a Governor.
* * *
A social question : How can a girl six
inches in diameter get away with three plates of
oysters each 12 inches across ?
* 0 0
They had been married a week and were
at a reception when the whole company was
knocked out in one round by a little girl of five
years, who, during a lull in the conversation,
leant forward and, looking up into the fase of
the bride, asked: “Hava you any children?”
Tableau.
o*o
A lean and hungry-looking man was roam-
ing round Walgett (N.S.W.) lasb Christmas
morning, and wondering where be was likely to
find a dinner. He was out of luck ; for several
months society had been cantering on hii pros-
trate form, and he was dead-tired of a hay diet
and empty enough to eat a bull’s-tail raw if he
were only able to wrench it off. He had bis
hands in Iffs pockets and was whistling the tune
that the old cow died of, when suddenly he
observed a turkey hanging under a hotel veran-
dah, and, gently disengaging it, he fled down the
street. He sold it at the next hotel, and the land-
lord hung it under the verandah. Then he softly
annexed it again and ran round to a boarding-
house, where the landlady bought it after some
haggling and hnng it under her verandah. It
was gone five minutes later, but it turned up again
In a public-house at some distance, where the
landlord paid fcr it, and, remarking lhat it
was a “ foine burr-r-d entoirely," attached it
to a hook in the wash-house. The vendor
fished it cut again by means of a long pole with
a nail at the end, and retailed it to a simple-
minded man who proudly deposited it on a piste
in the sink. A quarter of an hour later there was
nothing there but the plate. A storekeeper specu-
lated in the fowl shortly afterwards, and planted
it on a high st elf, and when he went to look for it
his rematka were of a chaste and lofty character,
and then the trader made a bee-line for his start-
ing point, and hung the turkey in its old place
under the original verandah. The owner, who
was out bunting for his lost bird, met him as he
was coming away, and wrathfnlly threatened to
give him into custody, but on his fowl btirg
pointed cut to him he apologised abjectly, and
gave the traduced stranger 5s to say nothing
about it There was much wrath, however, in
WaJgett that day, and many citizens who had
bought a turkey found themselves reduced to
dining on cold ham.
* * *
Last, week a Melbourne attorney invited
five other lawyers to have a run down to Mor-
dialloc with him on Saturday. On Friday evening
he thus wi r ed to the hotel: “Will arrive to-
morrow evening, five-thirty. S x dinners.” He
and the rest did arrive at the pleasant hostelry at
half-past five sharp, and were met at the dcor by
an anxious waiter, who politely observed : “ This
way, gentlemen, please; dinner has bsen ready
half-an-hour. Five was the time you mentioned,
I think, sir." The miserable lawyer who gave the
spread found on entering the dining room that
the telegram had been misinterpreted, and covers
had been for thirty-six !
* • *
A paragraph in an English paper relates
how “ a young lady, belonging to a leading family
in Ireland, and who was well-known in the locality
for her excellent dancing, painting, and lawn-
tennis,” went away to London for a trip and re
turned—a boy! It had been a little hoax all
through, and he, or she, cr it, or whatever you
would call the fair creature, had always been
dressed as a girl, and mingled with girls, and
looked upon as a girl, and no one had found oat
GRATUITOUS PUGNACITY.
“The N.S.W. Premier has staked the existence of good government and Fraetrade
on the carrying of the State House Scheme.” —Daily Paper.
HE: “I AM GOING OUT, MY DEAR, TO FIGHT FOR YOU TO THE DEATH.”
SHE: “AH, HENRY, TAKE MY WORD FOR IT, I AINT WORTH FIGHTING FOR."
the deception. Why it was done, goodness knows.
Ihe paper naively goes on to remark : “There Is
much unpleasantness iu consequence.” We should
say so. Just think of the sentiments of the young
lady who wears the lndlarubber chest-improver
when in the midst of her conquests and pride she
meets the steely glare of that boy; fancy the
anguish of the athletic tennis-playing girl when
that imp heaves in sight: he knows that she is
spider-legged and cnrly about the knees. The
girls who take off their back hair, and put their
teeth in soak when they go to bed will no doubt
leave the district; there can be no joy in life for
them where that boy is. Mark the ball-room
belle, all beauty, bangs, and bust/e mashing an
adorer; how she smiles, how gracefully the
voluminous draperies of her ball-room costume
encircle her sylph-)ike figure—how Bhe beams !
Suddenly she feels a chill presentiment of evil,
and, looking over her shoulder, she sees that boy.
He has seen her putting on her complexion with a
hare’s-foot and pencilling those lovely eyebrows.
Bustles are said to ba like historical novelp, be-
cause they are fiction founded on fact —well that
youth knows how much is fiction and how much
is— good gracious! As we have already said,
there's no difficulty in believing that there is “ a
good deal of unpleasantness in consequence.”
• • •
“It is now the thing to have full-length
mirrors in the vestibules of fashionable churches,”
says a social exchange. This is to enable the
giddy creature with the new hat to pause and
reflect.
* * *
Consult Planco, a lively youth, now a
stipendiary magistrate in Sydney, once got into a
row with some fellow-drunks somewhere in the
hallowed precincts of Woolloomooloo. Being the
most unsober of the crowd he was promptly run
In, but his name and address being given, he was
taken home and served next day with a summons.
He was a larky youth, but not without strategy.
Therefore, he bribed a resident of that suburb,
who gleefully accepted a fiver as remuneration
for appearing to the summons and paying ths cus-
tomary 10a fine. But when he was arraigned
before the beak he found that official to be some-
what wrathful. “ Young fellow,” he said, “ there
has been too much of this work down your way
lately. I mußt teach you a lesson. Three months
hard labour.” We may mention that 'Harry
Levlen told this yarn to a Campbelltown iury,
therefore we do not guarantee it as a gospel truth.
* * *
A police magistrate who sports the “bit
o’ blue," and who is known on the confines of
civilisation in N.B.W. as “ Holy Joe,” has decided
from his official perch that a publican has no lien
over a horse excepting for his feed. The back-
block shanty-beeper will, therefore, have to find
some other method of becoming nosseesed of the
shearer’s horse than that usually adopted cf allow-
ing h'm to drink him up. .And this reminds us
that Brother John Woseby, while combining piety
end polities, lectured down South on the evils of
the accursed drink. John described, in a style
peculiar to himself, the dire effects of looking
upon the wine when it is fed, and gave an in-
stance which, upon his tee-tee-total word cf
honour, came under his own observation. He
knew a man who came to a bush pub. with a
splendid team cf ten bullocks and a beautiful
dray. Well, in ten days, he had swallowed dray,
bullocks, and all. ((Sensation,) “That’s right,
quite right, sir;,” said an approving Voice in the
audience. “ There, gentlemen,” said the trium-
phant Mr. Wossby—“ there, gentlemen, is one
who can corroborate what I say.” “ Certainly,
certainly, Mr. Wcseby, for I saw the top of the
pole sticking out of his mouth.” Jchn says he
doesn't want corroboration of that kind any mere.
We should think not.
* • •
Archbishop Carr, of Melbourne, is sorry
to find that “ Catholic girls and young men pro-
fane the sacrament of marriage by receiving it
without the sanction or blessing of the church,
and so expose themselves to the evils which are
sure to follow from such unhallowed alliances.”
What the Archbishop wishes to explain Is iust
this : That if your funds won’t run to anything
more costly than Registrar’s Office nuptials, then
Divine Providence will take it out of your issue
unto the third and fourth generation. Mind
that, Biddy Malone !
# * *
Mr. Stanley, the lamplighter for Erst
Prahran (Melbourne), has been presented with
triplets as a small addition to his salary of 20s per
week. But he needn’t give himself any airs about
it, because history tells us that an Adelaide milk-
man secured six offspring at one fell swoop.
That record will want a lot of lowering.
* * *
Writes a Melbourne correspondent:—•
“ Artificial flowers” are to be greatly worn on ball-dresses
during the winter. Flowers are, of course, intended for
young ladies, but those who have passed 40 and have for-
gotten the circumstance, will be in the fashion or know the
reason why. It is time ball-dresses and their owners had
something to cover them if only leaves and flowers, like
the babes in the wood. The dress circles of our theatres
on‘‘fashionable" nights, when dear Lady Loch graciously
occupies the best seat, are admirable exhibitions of flesh-
tints An artist would be charmed. A modest woman
would blush. . . . One of the most haw-haw of Melbourne
militia officers, whose moustache has that touch of sunlight
that George Efiot saw in the apricots complained the other
day that a ‘ sabawdinate” had not shown him that respect
due to an officah and a gentleman. There w» sno excuse for
it, said the General, or Field-Marshal, or something, to
whom the complaiut was made, “ for he must have seen by
your uniform that you were an officer.”
* * *
A Melbourne man has proposed, per the
local evening paper, the formation of a Chester-
field Club. Nobody caught on to the idea —prob-
ably because not ten out of eleven society people
had ever heard of Chesterfield. Anyhow, it is a
pity that some people do not learn the etiquette
of society before thundering at the brick walls of
Toorak mansions. The successor of the elegant
and only “Humming Bee” is quite bored, dan-
oherknow, with the queries of Ignorant ladies
who want to know how one lady is to invite
another to an Irish-stew luncheon. The hired
girl has only been to the State school, and they
are not taustht hetlquette there, and the missus
probably has not been to any school at all. Why
not follow Henderson Africanuß’s example, and
buy a book of etiquette ?
* * *
A lady named Sbockwell has climbed on to
an inverted ash-barrel in the cause of temperance
at Melbourne. Her latest fulmlnation is headed
“The Ghost at Flinders-street Railway Stat'on,”
and Is meant to insinuate that opulent and obese
ladles, and spare ladies of moderate income, and
fair ladies, and dark ladies, and ladies that are
half-and-half, and red-headed, and tall, and
short, and all other kinds of ladies, down
to the party with hairy moles and a wart on
her nose, are subjeoted to a strain of temptation
at the Flinders-atreet terminus Btrong enough
to upset the equipoise of a brick house. The
whole of the tribulation is baßed on the fact that
by dodging into the waiting-room taking a sharp
tu n to the left, following a narrow, dark pas
sage, and going up two steps, any lady can
obtain drinks long, sborb, neat or mixed, at ord’-
nary rates, in a cosy Httle rtom to which the eye
of man can never penetrate. This, Mrs. Stock-
well argues, is a menace to society ; no woman
ordinarily constituted can resist that sly little
passage, and consequently ladies dark fair, and
of every size and make, miss trains slipping in to
arrange their hack hair, or bathe their tempter*
or put a pin In something, and come out odorous
of square gin and Scotch whisky. We believe,
with Mrs. S., that if all women are to be ab-
stainers, hotels must he built cf glass.
• • •
Governor Oaricgton has returned to
Sydney, and is again exerting himself in the good
cause. On Tuesday (February 21) he distributed
prizes at the Victoria Barracks to the winners in
the refcent rifle-match, several peers holdiog him
up during the proceeding’. The great African
desert of his yawn is also beginning to be seen
again about the th-atre?.
* * *
On February 22, at the. Congregational
Chuich, Manly, N.S.W., fhs marriage ceremony
was performed between Mr Charles Wilson, of
Melbourne, and Miss Lily A. Bennett, youngest
daughter of Mrs. Bennett, of the Corso, Manly.
Mies Emma Bennett, sister to the bride, Miss Ada
Iredale, and Mis 3 Elsie Smith officiated as brides-
maids.
# * #
The lucent absurd fuss made ever the
omission of grace at the New South Wales “ Cen-
tennial'’ banquet recalls the story told of Father
Dinny McGutnn, who, durirg the governorship of
Lord Belmore, was parish priest at Moss Vale,
New South Wales, and who was present at a
banquet given to H.E. Just as the victual-wolfing
was about to begin the Protestant Bishop rose,
and with great solemnity observed: “Dear
Friends, —Permit me to say the Protestant grace
on this occasion. For what we are about to
receive may the Lord make us truly thankful, j
This pointed reference to the Protestant claim on
the p r ayer so disgusted Father Dinny that he at
once bobbed up, and by way of giving a Holy
Roman flavour to the proceedings staggered
the company by adding : “And may the souls of
the faithful departed, through the mercy of Gcd,
rest in peace. A men.”
• • •
The millennium is in full boom at last.
The lion and the lamb are sleeping in the same
little cot; David Gaunson and Judge Wfndeyer
walk a-m-in-arm ; Prohibitionist Knapp and the
President of the Licensed Victuallers' A ssociation
are drinking at the same bar; Cardinal Moran
fills the chair at an Orange Lodge shivoo ; Rev.
Pastor Jefferfs is to play Little Jack Sheppard at
the Sydney Criterion, for the benefit of Johnnie
Solomon; and Soapy Thornton, of Ballarat,
preaches at St. Patrick’s Cathedral. At any rate,
none of these items can surprise now, for a
Queensland exchange says:—
The concert given by the Rsv. Mr. , assisted by hia
wife and the children of Tambo, for the benefit cf the
Western Downs Jockey Club, netted £lO,
Won’t the joy balls in Sh3ol ring when that is
wired to the Emperor Nicholas ?
* * *
A sweet girl thing unburdens herself in
the columns cf the Sydney E. News in this heroic
style
Contemptible being, you cannot injure me. You have
proved yourself an untruthful coward.
Which means that she is now going round with
another fello w.
* * *
In an acsount of the recent Ministerial
junketing a l ] th 9 National Park the S.M.H. winds
up a column cf gush in which “cork 3 were
drawn ” in alarmingly rapid sequence, with the fit-
ting remark: “A start was then made for the
train which was reached In safety.” Hie.
* * •
From the S.M. Herald :
LOST, in the vicinity Potts Point, a false set of teeth.
Reward.
Effects of the Centennial banqueting. They
worked loose.
* * *
It is now the correct high-toned caper in
polite society to polish up the warming-pan and
hang it in the hall. What will they want to hang
up there next, we wonder ?
* * *
At a certain Sydney theatre which wo
will not name, as the heroine was confessing the
tenderness of her passion for the hero, and the
lights were turned down and a weird, thrilling
glamour enchained the audience, suddenly from
the recesses of the d.o.,rcse a soft end plaintive
snore. Ifc was a soothing, reposeful score, but,
somehow, its melodious sonorosity was a dis-
tinct insult to the whole house. It is understood
to have arisen from a dramatio critic.
* * •
He was a suspicious man, and wanted
badly to know who had escorted her home the
previous night from the house of a friend. Then
she remonstrated : “ I never want to know who
brings you home,” said she. An awful silence
supervened.
- * •
In the ‘‘ Mikado ” Nanki Poo says : “ I’m
a dead man—l’m off for my honeymoon.”
* * *
At Sydney Criterion Theatre, the other
night, a lady from Gumtree Fiat scanned the
orchestra in silence, and then said, “Where’s the
piano 1 ” She didn’t see where the music was to
come from.
* • *
One of the competitors for the priza for
the Melbourne Exhibition cantata began his little
lay—
“ Hail Australia ! Land of the Golden Fleece,
Which always gets top price—whether washed or
in grea3e.”
He didn’t get top priej. |
Bishop Camidge, 0. of F. Bathurst, is a
Druid. We could almost be induced to make the
trip over the mountains to get a view of his
Lud'-hip in the nsual fancy-ball garb of the
mysterious fraternity,
The genial and experienced Robertson,
formerly of the Hobart Press and lately cf the
Melbourne Age and Daily Telegraph, has been
appointed private secretary to Sir Thomas M‘ll-
- of Queensland, at an excellent “screw.
Robertson and the D.T. parsons parted company
the other day because they couldn’t agree upon
the moral aspect of whi- t-playirg.


“ Australia’s " Monster Consultations. Ascot
Yalr Stakes, run March 3rd. The Sydney Cup,
run Easter Monday, April 2nd. Each 3000 sub-
scribers 20s. eaoh. First horae, £1,500 ; second,
£600 ; third, £300 ; starters, £300 1 non-starters,
£300, divided amongst them. The Australian
Jockey Club Plate, run April 7th, 1888, 3000
subs , 103. eaoh. First horse, £730 ; second, £200 ;
third, £100; starters, £150; non-starters, £150,
divided amcngst them. Also one hundred cash
awards of £2 each. Please apply early, and
registrar all letters to ensure safe delivery, Ad-
dress, “ Australia,” care of Mr. H. Dalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, George-street, Sydney,
N.S.W. \
Dr. Canny, late Surgeon Royal Artillery and H.M. 11th
Regiment, L.R.C.P.. L tt,M.RO S., England. Registered
in Great Britain and N.S.W. 61 Wentworth Court Cham
hers, Elizabeth-street (ground floor). Specialist in Diseases
of the Liver Kidneys. Ao. Dr. Canny's long servioe in the
Tropics, sc , has afforded him Bpecial experience in the
treatment of the above-mentioned diseases.*
QBllIKIOH THEATRE.
Sola Proprietor — «. Mr. John Solomon
Under the Management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Aoting Manager Mr. A. L. Cunard.
OPERA BURLESQUE SEASON.
ENTHUSIASTIC AND BRILLIANT RECEP-
TION of Our
THIRD GRAND PRODUCTION,
A NEW and ORIGINAL COMIC OPERA,
Entitled,
DICK.
A PERFECT FURORE
from the rise of the curtain to the oonolusion Of
the opera.
One CONTINUAL ROAR of LAUGHTER and
TUMULTUOUS APPLAUSE was the result.
Business Manager Mr. Joe Da via.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM, BATHS,
and PLEASURE GROUNDS.
UNDOUBTED and BRILLIANT SUCCESS
of this
SUPERB BUILDING
THE GREAT SWIMMING BATH, 100ft LONG.
Finest collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
ENTERTAINMENTS every AFTERNOON.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Admission Is. Children half-price.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sola Lessees Messrs. Rlgnold and Allison.
Doors open 7. j Performance 8.; Carriages 10.3P.
GO AND SEE
IN THE RANKS IN THE RANKS.
Mr. GEO. RIGNOLD
and
Miss KATE BISHOP.
Prices, 6s., 8s„ 3s., Is.
Box Plan at Nloholson’s and Co.’s.
J. P. MACDONALD, Aoting Manager.
— —
Alhambra music hall.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager Mr. FRANK SMITH.
Stage Manager ... Mr. Harry Barrington.
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
The Management must work up a NEW VOCA-
BULARY OF WORDS before ha can desoribe the
SENSATIONAL WAVE OF SURPRISE
that floated through the OVERCROWDHD AUDI-
ENCE, who witnessed the PRODUCTION of our
NEW FIRST PART, LAST NIGHT.
AUSTRALIA’S QUEEN.
TO NIGHT,
A NEW WORLD OF FUN.
Orchestra Chairs, 2s.; Stalls, la.; Balcony, fid.
ASHFIELD RECREATION GROUND AND
GARDEN PALACE.
OPEN EVERY AFTERNOON and EVENING-
SKATING. SKATING.
SKATING. SKATING.
The largest and finest Skating Rink in tho Colony.
Large stock of new American Skates.
Look out for the
GREATEST NOVELTY EVER WITNESSED.
Admission; GRAND STAND and GARDES?
PALACE, 2s. ; GROUNDS, Is.
The Whole Grounds illuminated by Electric
Light.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
MUSIC MALL.
George-street, Haymarket.
Proprietor and Manager ... .« Mr. Frank Smith.
Alhambr a
c
EVERY SUNDAY EVENING at T.8G.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
Of 88 Performers, 88 Performers.
Under the Oondnotorshlp of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Sittings as Usual.
Theatre royal
Under the Direction of
Mesen. Williamson, Gamer, and Mnsgrevs.
Lessee, Mr, Sam. Laser,
Remember ONLY 8 MORE PERFORMANCES.
THIS (THURDAY) EVENING, March 1,
IOLANTHE IOLANTHB,
written and composed by
W. S. GILBERT and Sir ARTHUR SULLIVAN.
Prloes i—Dress clrole, 5a. i Stalls. 8s. t Clrole, Is.
BOTANY. BOTANY. BOTANY.
■VERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON AT 8.80.
GRAND SACRED and CLASSICAL CONCERT
or Well-known Artists,
AwnmOALLY AND NUMERICALLY THE STRONGEST,
Under the Oondnotorshlp of Mr. Chab. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children free.
FRANK SMITH, DlrSOtOI.
-
To Tobacconists and Storekeepers.
Head this announcement. It largely affects
your interests.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
WHOLESALE TOBACCO AND CIGAR MER-
CHANTS AND IMPORTERS,
680 AND 682 George-street, Sydney,
Have a Stock replete with almost every
known brand of Tobaoco, Cigars, and
Cigarettes, and an Infinite variety of
Briar and Meerschaum Pipes (plain and Bilver-
mounted),
Cigar and Cigarette Holders, Walking Stloks,
Cutlery, Perfumery, &c.
CRAIG & AITKEN.
Our Consignments come dlreot from the Manu-
facturers, consequently we are able to quote
the Lowest Possible Prices for Cash.
SPECIAL LINES.
8
• K/WA/'
♦ , •
6
army and navy,
For SMOKING or CHEWING,
Is Still the most popular Brand in the Market.
WHOLESALE FROM CRAIG, AND AITKBN.
TINE AROMATIC VULCAN RUBY, 11s., 14a.,
p.p.’s, 75.: TWIST.
CUT TOBACCOS.
"VULCAN MIXTURE (American), finely flavored,
besto value in the market. Jib. paokets.
.AMERICAN ROUGH CUT RUBY, and LONG
COT, in Jib. packets. Finest quality.
CIGARS.
TEL TORO BREVAS, exquisitely flavored.
THE SPORT, well seasoned, very fine.
HIGH LIFE, the real imported by C. and A.
Splendid Lines for the Retail Trade.
Manillas a Speciality!
CRAIG & AITKEN.
HAIRDRESSERS’ REQUIREMENTS.
(Special attention devoted to this branch.
‘S&taons fitted out in first-class style at a very
•modemte cost. Parties starting in business oan
have dheir every want supplied, thus avoiding Ml
inoonronienoe and delay* Orders, enclosing P,O.
•Orders or Cash, promptly attended to.
Pay Particular Attention to the Address:
CRAIG & AITKEN,
Wholesale Tobacco and Cigar Merchants and
Importers of Hairdressing Requisites,
$6O and 682 George-street,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Sole agents for the ARMY AND NAVY
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Price List on Application.
ROW'S
Dandelion Bitters.
We reoommend these BITTKRS to be taken tire
or three times a day j a wineglaßsfal for an adult,
smaller quantity for ohlldren.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The aotlon of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, Is more reliable for remoy.
Ing all Impure secretions than any other medioinat
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Disease wUI find
these Bitters Invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals, diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twioe a day,
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER,
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Rowe and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S. England,
Port Adelaide, October SO 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure In reoom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with Liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
m«.n, I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advlße
*ll who suffer from Liver complaint to try them,—
Yours.
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tam wort*, August 81, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received by
the undersigned i—
“ i have for many years been obliged to take
medloines of different kinds for affeotlonß of the
liver, Indigestion, pain In the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
reoommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effeot and change In
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
"lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflloted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
"I remain, Dear Sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
" Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.
DOWS
JAEMBRO CATION
a
'■3 /
\'SG Lu
\ EVERYWHERE
Bow’s Steane’s Wine
ia a and sure stimulant for the female set
or children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite ana
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
bake
Row’s Steanb’s Win©.
It oannob harm you, but must do good to all
delioate persons. YOUNG LADIES oan take
this when suffering from general debility. Its
only a pure tonlo. Try It.
ntiATi CERTIFICATE RESPECTING ITS
PURITY.
4 Having oarefully examined a bottle of ROWS
‘STEANE”S’ WINE, manufactured by Edward
Row and Company, I consider them a very whole-
some tonic, suitable for persons suffering from
weak digestion, being perfectly free from any In-
jurious chemicals, too often used In such prepara-
tions. They should become a favorite drink »
these warm climates.
(Signed) JOHN M’KILLOP, analyst,
4 Sydney, December 23, 1884.”
Bow’s Steane's wine
has also weaned many persons from the exoesslvt
use of ardent spirits. ,
TEETOTALLERS will find this newly-lnvente®
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without Its intoxioating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for foon
instead of drink. As an antl-febrile Is unsur-
passed.
TRY THEM.
HOTEL-KEEPERS ALL KEEP
ROW’S ASSORTED BITTERS,
CONTAINING
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS,
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS,
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS,
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS,
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS,
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS,
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
BOLE proprietors,
Edward Row & Company
43, 45, 47, c. UORGE-BTREET, SYDNEY-
The Referee
Result of the sixth Australian Eleven
initial match, v. Lillywhite’s team : —Britishers,
first tfcUldggß, 173. Colonials, first innings, 75;
second, -SC. As events turned out, the Australians
had all the worst of sending their opponents to
the wicket first, a mistake for which the general
public gave Percy M'Donnell all the credit. As
a matter of fact, it was decide! by a majority of
the team, and Mac. had no more to do with it
than any other member of the Eleven. M’Don-
nell is anything but the autocrat of the Australian
cricket field.
* * *
Thus the Sydney D.T. : “The English
jEleven fielded like Trogians."
* * *
Will Moses go to England ? That is the
■question just now amongst the cricketers.
* * *
When the deaf and dumb-boxer, Mace,
'ln Newcastle, the other evening, struck a man at
a sparring-entertainment, the police insltted upon
■a prosecution, notwithstanding the fact that the
stricken one wanted to let the matter drop. Why
don’t they follow suit in Matheson aad
M'Elhone’s case ?
* * *
Would it not be better to allow the eight-
oar race to fall through than send from N. S.W.
a crew without the ghost of a show of winning ?
Two of the N.S.W. Selection Committee have re-
signed, and matters just now are mixed.
It is ever thus. A few seasons ago the
two Kennedys and Johnstone would have
gone on bended knee for inclusion in the
Intercolonial team, hut, owing to a dearth of
first-class amateur oarsmen in Sydney, they
have, for a season or tw \ scooped the pots in to a
considerable extent, so think they are now quite
justified in stioklng the colony up and refusing to
row. Dobson, who has rowed stroke to the three
men named in a couple of winning races, is foolish
to refuse to pull, as he is throwing away a chance
which will never fall to his lot again. So far as
winning the races was concerned, any ordinary
maiden could have won with the Kennedys and
Johnston against the very ordinary crews they
had to meet, and, taken on his Individual per-
formances, Dobson would not ba picked ia a lot of
twenty. men cannot render a satisfactory
reason for thiir refusal, the Association, no
matter how hard pressed for a crew in the future,
should never give the quartette a chance of row-
ing when it suited their conven’enca.
• • *
Mr. Gurner, of Melbourne, has made no
mistake in entrusting George Ellis, the well-known
boat builder ard sailor of Balmun, with his order
for a 20-ton crack. The leaden keel, weighing
15j tons, was oast last week, and Etlle’s contract
allows him until August to complete the job.
The Era’s successes should make Mr. Garner
jubilant.
* * *
At Foley’s, on Saturday evening next, the
N.S.W. amateur champion pug. will, for the
second time, meet the American Margin Cob-
tello, the most cunning boxer who mounts
Foley's stage, in a six-round encounter.
* * *
Out of the 125 runs made by the Austra-
lians, Sydney men scored 82 against 43 made by
the rest Df the Australian contingent.
* * *
lb is just now dawning on the cricketing
public that Percy M’Donnell is a rather bad
skipper, his poor judgment throwing away many
wickets b3Bides his own. Take, for instance, the
way he went out on Saturday. Fancy a man in
his right senses trying to hit a bill out of the
ground against a southerly gale ! The stroke was
a magnificent one, certainly, but he might as well
have tried to drive it through a deal board.
• * *
George Lohmann says Moses is the grandest
bat in Australia— and the luckiest.
• * *
Trouble seems to have settled on the house
of Colley. A few weeks ago “ Brickey," the well-
known jockey, had his knee smashed eo badly that
It is doubtful if he will ever ba himself again. On
last Friday week his nephew, a lad, nine years of
age, was killed through a fall from a horse at
Bathurst, and on the Friday after, the boy's father,
Mr. Anthony Colley, dropped dead, just as he had
finished a dance, at a ball given in the Oddfellows’
Hall. He was a very popular young fellow, and
one of the best rifle shots in the district.
# * *
A valued New Zealand correspondent sug-
gests that our sporting readers should not neglect
to have a little bit on the Maoriland filly, Pearl
Shell, In all her autumn engagements. He says
she ia a regular daisy-cutter, and the best mare
ever bred at Sylvia Park. She had an unbroken
record at Auckland during the spring, and won all
her races with ridiculous ease.
* * *
The latest sensation in the way of sport is
bicycle-racing for lady-riders only. In due time,
the darlings will take to hurdle-racing at Botany,
and then we may expect to find a few pairs billed
to fight to a finish at Foley’s. When the latter
consummation oomo9 off, Parliament will be de-
sorted and onr theatres changed into Salvation
Army barracks.
• * *
Bookmaker Nat Nathan recently played
very low on the Island Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club.
He invested £3O on the totalisator on a horse
named Marlborough, and on that) game equine
filing to win, the astute Nathaniel promptly
Berved the Racing Club with a demand for the
return of his ooin. The Club declining, Nat.
served them with a “ Vlotoria-by-the-graoe-of-
God ” and the beak has decided, under some
ordinance of the Charleses or the Georges, that the
bookmaker ia entitled to the £3O, as the demand
was made prior to the money being paid over to
the Investor on the winning horse. This apparently
absurd decision is held to be perfeotly good law.
and the totallsator in N.Z. Is doomed unless an
amendment of the Gaming and Lotteries Aot is
obtained. Farnell, M.L.A , should make a note
of this.
# * *
The Australian batsmen In the recent
match made the bowling appear more diffioult
than it really was, Turner proving it to them by
the way he played it. Many of them were
deaders before they went in.
* * *
The Bulletin’s prediction re the prob-
able result of the International match was, as it
proved, beside the question, seeing that the
Englishmen batted on a moderately good wicket
compared with that which fell to the home team.
Yet the miserable collapse of the newly-con-
stituted Sixth Eleven must make us pause. During
the present season no looal combination has baen
able to score an innings of 300 against Lohmann,
Briggs, and Co,, and their power to keep down
runs on a good pitch is beyond dispute. Now they
have succeeded in taking 20 representative Aus-
tralian wickets for a total of 131 (no “run-outs ”)
it is clear that Turner and Ferris can give them
little start, be the ground as wet as it may—or
else that the Britishers have the pull in fielding
and batting. Unless we can lick the M.C.C. men
at Melbourne, things look unpromising for the
next English tour.
* * *
They say that St. Odllle, who was one of
the fastest mares in training 18 months ago, is
going in her old form, and will nearly win the
Newmarket Handicap. If she is the St. Odille of
yore nothing can head her for the first half-mile.
She leaves the mark like a shot from a gun.
t * •
Midwinter says that the sixth Australian
Eleven isn’t good enough to play the English
counties. But, then, Mid. wasn’t asked to join
the team.


Centrally
situated
„ AND
accessible
toauthe leadiwc
BUSINESS
HOUSES
IN THE
CITY
DANIELL’S IMPERIAL HOTEL
RRP NE
THE MOST COMFORTABLE
SOUTH
"on]*
OFTHE.
EQUATOR
HC.T.JEJ=
OF m
II
£2
U -U
cJTDANIEIi.
iiiiiiiiiiiii^n
i
M
MS
Silk
THREE MINUTES
DRIVE |
FROM THE
RAILWAY
STATION
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
WITH All THE
MERCANTILE
HOUSES
BANKS Sc.
Private Suites with Luggage Room attached lor the convenience of Ladles. Ladies- Mwing-room, with amagniflcent view of the Brisbane River and
Private suites wun
T .... ommxiv l» All totter, —a Telrere: H. epplpttu ter Ap.r.ment. will rorolre prompt .ttentlem
A torchlight procession was held in honour
of the return from Australia to Canterbury of Mr.
and Mrs. Hennlker Heaton. Henniker, in his
Bneeoh, said “ that the Colonial Office was very
fortunate in having such able men as
tives of her Majesty in the colonies. At the
present moment they had men who were as
generous as they were able, and who had the
cleverness not to appear to infer/ere m
business .” Are you listening, Young Australia 1
A certain Sydney bookseller has invented
a new method of squaring accounts. From time
to time a lot of very smart people go Into his
large library, and when they think no eye sees
them, they load themselves up (undertheircoats)
with boohs—stuff their clothes with them, in
fact. The bookseller catches these people occa-
sionally and brings them into Ws offiM. Then he
pulls down an account-book and puts the matter
thus: “ Lcok here, sirs since last I caught a
book-thief and made him square up, I have lost
by theft- let me see—hum 1 Yes. Three volumes
of a full-calf edition of Dickens, the set being
thereby spoilt; a oopy of Mudie’s felonry; a
couple of old colonial almanacs, worth a, good
deal of money* besides a dozen other books, the
whole lot worth, say, £2O. If you now pay me
£2O you can stop out of gaol. If you don tl 11 call
a policeman." As a rule, the bookseller finds
they pay up, and, says he, “It is much better to
pay £2O than go to gaol—better for me, better for
them, and better for the country."
£5O £5O
Sheffield Handicap.
athletic” sports
Will be held at
E1a.37-rxe37 - ,
EASTER MONDAY
2nd APRIL, 1888.)
programme S
SHEFFIELD HANDICAP of £so.—Distance,
150 yards. First prize, £35; second, £lO ,
third, £5. Nomination, 7s. 6d.; Acceptance,
YOUTH’S RACE (Handicap).—For youths under
18 years of age. 100 yards. First prize, £l,
oAncnd 10s Entrance, Is.
THREE-LEGGED RACE.—Prize, £l. Distance,
DISTMCT H HANd!oaP > 0« 1 75. 130 yard* Open
DlB KTdentowilMn»raalt„o( 10 mile, from
Blayney. First prize, £4; second, £l. Kn-
ttt.TlwT’aT THE RING (on horseback). First
prize, £1; second, 10s. Entrance, la. _
BOYS’ RACE (Handicap).—For youths under 14
years Distance, 75 yards. First prize, 155.,
second, 53. Entrance, Is. ™.
GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE, for hal -an-hour Ftat
prize, £2 10s ; second, £l, third, 10s. En
PUBLICANS’ RACE (Handicap).-For all publi-
cans within a radius of 30 miles. Prize, £5.
ruatance 120 yards. Entrance, 4s.
HOP, STEP,' and JUMP. —First Prize, £1 10s. ;
RAiviTid 1 0s. Knferanoe, Is#
HURLING MATCH. (Special prize of £5 by Mr.
F. Mallon). Entrance, Is.
RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Sports will commence at 11 a.m.
All competitors must appear on their marks re-
over hi. mark before the
ptekdVtoid .ill he pat
yard; seoond time, two yards ; third time, will be
di Tbt a ee fl s e tarters for each event or no race; four
Btaiters or no Becond P ri J e - .. . t
Protests (accompanied with a fee of 55.) nature
be lodged with the Secretary within ten minutes
Nominators^ Sheffield Handicap must
lend in to the Secretary at the time of entry their
performances for fcbe pasts two ycftrs*
Notationsfor the SheffieldOndtog .mustbe
in the hands of the Secretary not later than 8 p.m.
m MONDAY, 19th March. „„ TTWHnAV „ 2nA
Handicaps to be declared on THURSDAY, 22nd
to be in not later than 8 p.m. on
SATURDAY. 31st Maroh. , ~
Poet entries for all other erenta except the
Sheffield Handicap. JOHN MELLOR,
Hon. Sec.
THE GREAT TOORAK ESTATE,
corner of Toorak and Glenf errle Roads, TOORAK,
WILL BK
SOLD BY AUCTION
IN VILLA AND MANSION SITES
on SATURDAYS, 11th and 18th February next.
TERMS: 10 per oent. deposit; balance, 8, 8,12,
and 18 months at 6 per cent.
TITLE, CERTIFICATE.
Solicitor to thb Estate i
w. H. LEWIS, Esq., 95 Collins-at. W , Melbourne.
Surveyor j
LLOYD TAYLER. Etq , 53 Little Colllns-Bb. W„
Melbourne.
Auctioneers in Conjunction,
MUNRO ft BAILLIKU, Colllns-st., East,
t* 8. TUCKHTT, Collins st. West.
THOS. F. CUMMING, Comer of Collins and
William Streets.
J. J. BRENNAN, Grattan-sfe., Carlton.
From whom plans and all particulars can be
obtained.
The Hon. T. F. Cunningham, M.L.C., Austra
lian Club, Melbourne, will purohase allotments on
reoelpt of instructions for country buyers who oan-
not attend the sale at the lowest rates.
THE land la the best ever yet submitted by
subdivision around Melbourne, and it is
admittedly the acme and perfection of the most
fashionable, the healthiest, the most charming,
and the moßt romantio Bpot of Toorak, which, it
is needless to Bay, Btands without a rival amongst
the suburbs of Melbourne. The Estate, which is
surrounded by Mansions, has a beautifully pano-
ramie view. For accessibility to the City the
Estate excels all other fashionable residentialsltes.
By road it is about 4$ miles from the Post-office;
by rail it is considerably less. The Glen Iris Rail-
way branches off from Burnley, and after travel-
ling one mile and three-quarters reaches the Rail-
way Station to be erected on Mr. Fergusons pro-
perty at the Glenferrie-road. This Station is two
minutes' walk from the GREAT TOORAK
ESTATE. By rail the City will be reached from
your breakfast-table comfortably in fifteen
minutes. The Toorak Tram, now in course of
construction, will take you from tho heart of the
City to within eight minutes’ walk of the Estate
for Threepence, and the omnibuses from the Tram
Terminus to Malvern pass the Estate. Gas and
water laid on. Drags and Conveyances will meet
intending purchasers at South Yarra Station.
T
10 PERSONS RESIBING IN THE COUNTRY
OR THE ADJOINING COLONIES.
If you want anything In Sydney, send to
B. GIBBINGS & Co.,
GKEaXTEHEt-AXi .A.Gh BUTTS,
OF
881 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
ALL KINDS OF BUSINESS TRANSACTED AT
THE VERY LOWEST RATES.
The Introduction of New Lines and Patents a
Speciality.
DR. RICHARDS.
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases; prioe, including post-
ages. 6d. in stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
and the Dootor will tell you at onoe whether your
ease is curable or not. Address—
DR. RICHARDS,
7 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
«« Town and Country Journal, also Brevities in
" Evening News." Address, “ Tattered's," care
of George Adams, TattersaU’B Hotel, Sydney. Per-
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery;
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing,
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THFTT7I BEIGHTON OB’ XST-S-W-
A T the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquete, Suppers Private P ”J e0 '
A. served on the shortest notice in the Large Dining Hall. “ oundlng country ,
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the f t ° r £ ng that oan possibly make one
here also you oan have good company, good wines in lao > a^d pi * nlo par ties provided. Table
ZKSfI “'So .x Pr . U .P»r.d by Mrs. Kilml..»r t. mob. Mr vtal-
ton comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the Colony. __ , -
MRS KILMINSTRR, Clarendon Hotel,
/XAJJiXLAXX KJ j. , OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH MANLY.
CENTENARY UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION, 1888.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, EXHIBITION BUILDING.
patronage of Lieut - Governor Sm ALFRBD STEPHE H(mor sir FRffiDERICK D ARLEY,
PARKES, G.C.M.G., Mid the a¥ m^HARDSON • Sir WILLIAM MANNING, K.C.M G.; The Hon.
Chief Justice; MAJOR-GENERAL . RICH. Right Worshipful the MAYOR of SYDNEY
HoShD WHITsf ML C. Commissioner; P. FLETCHER
wItKIN® E™. AcadW of ArtJMe ido™—.
m IRON CARON has been appointed Musical Director. Under his baton his Cantata (expressly
M. LEON CARON has D^ mpo P^ d) wlll be the opening day.
The buildings have been declared as bonded stores. " Protection of Patents exhibited will be gazetted.
APPLICATION for OUT-DOOR “?d AnneTe° Space received MARCH^
Particulars apply to Exhibition Building. -
THE
“ PLUM
RAZOR.”
THE
“ PLUM
RAZOR.”
F
iiITKEIT,
POTOSI HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
680 GEORGE- STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorrento and Echuca,
T7"ictoxia-
THK CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO,
(I the moat fashionable Spring, Autumn, and
Summer resort in the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
finii, Ladies Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Bfflmn. Every Convenience and Attention.
First-class Hotel Servioe. Accommodation for
SOO Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Bal-
conies, Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ck H Speanng & k,
PROPRIETORS,
LATE OF
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
THE PALACE HOTEL, ECHUCA, is the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In the
Rlverina District. Mr. J. H. B, SPEAKING’S
30 years' experience as a Public Caterer is a
guarantee of the Comfort, Convenience, and Con-
sideration all Guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Publlo
Baths. Alcook’s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony
out of Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter
Resort for Invalids,
]. 1. 5, Sparing,
PROPRIETOR.
COLLINS-PLACE, COLLIN a-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
„ visitors Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
Comfort to Rialto ' mpt J y attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 513.
MBS. M. COLES, Proprietress.


SAYE MONEY BY GOING TO L IWLKR'S
DURING THE FEBRUARY SALE.
Hrtt and Coat Racks, extraordinary value, from
ea?b
Gornice Poles, With ends and rings, extraordinary
value, from 3s. Ild. each
Bedroom Toilet Glasses, extraordinary value, from
2s. lid. each
Excellent Clocks, extraordinary value, from 5s.
each
Bii'let’s Wood Trays, with stand, extraordinary
tfahle, from 13s. Od. each
Effect.ve Oil Paintings, extraordinary value, from
103. 6d. each
Horsehair Cloth Couches, extraordinary valtfe.
from 47s. 61. each
C+etcflne Couches, extraordinary value, from 27s.
6l. each
AtiStriah Drawing rotim Shite 3, of 0 pieces* extra
drdinary value, frdm 160s. each
Dining Tables, to seat 0 parsons, extraordinary
value, from l4s. fid each
Fancy Siiting-r. om Tables, extraordinary vaiiie,
from 27s. 61 each
Bier Glasses, walnut, with fancy inlays, extra-
ofdiuary-7alue, from 12s 6d each
Marble top Washstandd, extraordinary Value, froth
19 s fid. eadh
Dressing Tables, extraordinary value, from 7s. fid.
each
Toilet Chests, with glass attached, extraordifiafy
vaiiie, from 30s. fid. each
Book das with glass doors, extraordinary value,
, from 7 T s fid. each
Wflting Tab! 63, covered T p', Drawers, &?.,
eXtrdo die dry value , from 35s, each
Wardrobes, with silvered glass doors* ext?a»
ordinary value, from f 10s. eadh
Chinese Balcony Lounges,- very strong, extra-
ordinary value, from 13s. fid each .
Chinese Mattirg, fittl yard wide, extraordinary
value, from yard
Hard wearing Fibre Dooi* Mats, extraordinary
value, from 1 3, 6d. each
Fandy Door Slip Mats, extraordinary value, from
Is. fid. each
Hearth Eugs in Brussels,- extraordinary vaiiie,
from 3s 6 !. each
Chinese Balcony B’inds, strong green ones, extra-
ordinary value, from 5j fid each
Sulhrior Japanese Balcony B’icds, very superior,
extraordinary value, from 83. 6d. each
Window Elinds in Fancy Holland, specially goad,
extraordinary value, from "3, fid. each
Squares of Carpet, vd T iou3 styles, Extraordinary
value* from 11s fid. each
Really Excellent Pattern Tape3try Carpets, extra-
ordinary value, from Is fid each
Splendid Brussels Carpe 1 -, choice colourings, ex-
traordinary value, from 33, 3d. per yard
Fu'l yard wide Stans psdiiattern Kidder. Carpets,
extraordinary value, from Is. fid. yard
Oilcloth for stairs or narrow passages, extraor-
' dinary value, from 41. yard
LacS Carta’ns —per pair, extraordinary value,
fi’orft 3 3. 01. per pair
Imitation Madras Cilrtains, per pair, extraordin-
ary value, from 7s. fid par pair
Tapestry Window Hangings, per pair, extraordin-
ary Xalue, from 17s. 6d per pair
Cdpital CheffmT i*r Sideboards, extraordihary
value; from 42s. fid. each
Sideboards in mahogany and oak, extraordinary
value, £17 1 Os. each
Bedsteads, to Combine stretcher chair as well,
with ciishions, from 103. 63. each
Really excellent Keyless Stump Bedsteads, 2|ft. x
G't., fiom 10s. fid. each
Splendid line in Half-tester Single Bedsteads, 2-|tt.
by 6ft, filn , from 17s, 6d. each
Strong, fuU-sized Half-tester Bedsteads, from 4 jft.
x Olt. fiio., from 25s. each
An excellent Fonrpost Double Bedstead, 4|ft. x
6ft filn , from 27s. 63. each
Baautlfully mounted Black and Brass Bedstead,
l|'t. x 6ft. fiia., from 903. each
Astoniihiog Strong Double Bedsteads, 4|ft. x 6ft.
fiin., fremios ea^h
Wire mattresses—eight different qualities, from
lis each
Exquisite Corner Whatnots, from Its. 6d. each
The celebrated Java Super Kapok (if small quan-
tities), from Is. lb.
Excellent Wool Flock, 3d. lb.
Palliasses of best straw, 6s. per pair
Flock Mattresses, In fancy tick, full size, from
l8s each
Java Kapok Mattress, In best fancy tick, full stee,
from 30s. each
Mosquito Net Curtains, in I201n. net, single size,
from 103, 6d. set
Mosquito Net Curtains, double size, from 14s. 6d.
Bet
Beautiful Tea Sets In ehlnaware and gilt, from
19 s. fii. set
Very excellent Dinner Service, from 23s. fid.
service
Mikado Dinner Services, from 903. service
Sets of wondsrfal value Jugs, from 2s. 3d. set
Cups and Saucers, from 23. per dcXen
Filters, and really excellent they are, from 5s. 6d.
each
Superior Glass Tumblers, from 33. 63. dozen
Boots for Men, Sbrong Elastio Sides, from 03. 3d.
pair
Boots for Sunday, very stylish, from 8s. 61. a pair
Lovely coquettish Ladies' Shoes, from 5s. pair
Extra Strorg Boys’ Lace-up Boots, from 4s. 6d.
pair
Strong coppertoed Boys' School Boots, from 2s.
91. pair
Ladies’ lovely Lace up Boots, extraordinary value,
from 6j 91. pair
Ladies' beautiful Button Boots, extraordinary
value, from 7s. lid. pair *
Children’s Shoe3, extraordinary value, from 7£l.
pair
Beys’ suits in Tweed, extraordinary value, from
4s. lid. suit
Youths’ Suits in Tweed, extraordinary value, from
103. Od. suit
Men’s Trousers, extraordinary value, from 5a. 6d.
pair
Men’s Trousers and Yosts, extraordinary value,
from 103. 6d.
Men’s Tweed Suits, extraordinary value, from
21s. suit
Lsdies’ Cornets, immense assortment, extraordin-
ary value, from 23. lid. each
Ladies’ superior Frilling and Ruffling, extraordin-
ary value, from 51. yard
Ladles Print Dress Material, extraordinary value,
from 2jd, yard
Ladies Gloves, rare chance, extraordinary value,
from 2s. 9d pair
And after these prices and the list have been
carefully gone through go straightway and make
out a list of your requirements and get them at
LAWLER’S Central Emporium, 608 George-street,
Sydney.
Those who are in the country and would like to
reap the advantage and benefit of purchasing at
LAWLER'S have only got to write in requesting
a copy of the Illustrated General Cata’ogue to be
sent them and it will go forward by the first post.
Call
or
Write,
Established 1860.
LAWLER’S,
SYDNEY.
}
Call
or
Writ*,
Alfred Miller used to sign himself plain
Alfred Miller. He is now, “Alfred Ed. Miller."
Perhaps he has changed his name like his alleged
principles.
The euphemistic S.M. Herald says: “Re-
ports have reached Port Darwin that the Roper
River blacks'have been most seriously misbe-
having themselves." Considering that the niggers
captured a boat, and ate three white men and two
Malays raw, they certainly did “ misbehave ”
theiii3elves, and the Herald might have been
pardoned if it had added in “ a highly indecorous
recnmra' 1
m h
XJS
X^W.
i. J
msK\ i t
V' *
i mi
1
■$#
•»& L-. if"
am
’ m vf A jfC/ •-' * -,v i
’ /'• p&1$)fo A ' •■ ,wxr
A *■
■ <VK
\ '• M
‘7 ' 1 /• JW-V v. --i '; S
PATSY: “I SAY, MOIKE, THERE’S A WHITE SHNAKE A-COMIN’ THROUGH THE
FINCE 1 ”
MlKE: “YES, AND THERE’S A WHITE HEN AFTHER IT WID A PAIR OF YELLOW
LEGS.”
Thus Charles Gavan Duffy, in the Con-
fEiiPORARtr REVIEW —
I assisted a few years ago, in the Mansion House, at a
Spectacle which made a permanent lodgment in my memory.
Lird Mayor M‘Arthur got together at a banquet the most
notable statesmen and soldiers Of the colonial Empiie. . .
There never met bef ore or Elnce at one place so many men
entitled to be called Australian statesmen. After the ban-
quet came the usual douche cf dreary platitudes. An old
lord who had been addressing London audiences for half a
century, the Speaker of the Hctlse of Commons, an ex-Sscre-
tary Of State for thh Colonies, and a Royal Prince were heard
at wearisome length ; but the eniment men, for whom the
feast was Supposed to be spread, not one was invited to speak
a word.
Well! What of it ? Aren't the colonies supposed
to listen Instead of talking l
Lots df People
get bilious, have heavy headaches, mouth f ml,
yellow eyes, &c. ; all the direct result of impure
blood, which can be throughly cleansed, renewed,
and enriched with dr beLL’s (Kidney and Liver)
bitTers, It acts at the same time on the kidneys,
liver and bowels, and has more real virtue in a
bottle than can be found in any other remedy for
the Bame class of diseases.
A Boon to Humanity —In 1844 a therapeutical inven-
tion » a3 brought before the world, which surprised everyone,
in that it dispelled, modified cr lessened Pain, the charac-
teristic symrtom .of nearly all diseases. The inventor made
no secret of h,s oiscovery, although at the time Scepticism
raised her heal, and people loudly acclaimed it was im-
possible that a siDgle medicine couid arrest Pain of every
kind, and c ire a variety of diseases t uch, however, was tire
fact when Mr. Richard Freeman placed in the hand of the
public his Genuine Chlerodyne. Year by year its cosmo-
politan popularity has increased, till it iB now found in every
quarter of the globe and thousands daily, in New Zealand
and other lands express their gratitude and sens* of security
from the use of this medicine.—Sold everywhere thioughout
the Colonies. Insist upon having ‘'Freeman’s" only.
Reject substitutes as they are worthless. Trade Mark, an
Elfephant.*
Royal Wine Bodiga. Single bottles. Old wine. 410
George-street, near King-street Arcade.*
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth,
healthy gums, and fragrant breath, can only te obtained by
tnedailyuse of RowlanjdsOdonto, or Pearl Dent rifice.
It eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a p c ail-like whiteness. Rowlands
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists.*
SET BACK 42 YEARS,
"I was troubled for many years with Kidney Complaint,
Gravel, &c.; my blood became thin; I was dull and inactive,
could hardly crawl about; was an old worn out man all
over; ciuld get nothing.to help me, until I got Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters, and now I am a boy again. My
blood and kidneys are all right, and I am as active as a man
of 30 although I am 72, and I have no doubt it will do as
well for others of my age. It is well wort h a trial —(Father.)
—“ Sunday Mercury.”
This item will be of Interest to persons
of a financial turn of mind. The Melbourne
Tramway Company has, according to the terms
of its charter, to pay the City Council all profits
over 12J per cent. The profits are stated at
exactly 12?| per cent. The difference, of course,
goes to the Council.
A southern editor writes a long article in
defence of Parkes’ project for placing members of
the NSW. Council on the Public Works Com-
mission, and says contemptuously that “ Reid’s
constitutional point will not hold water.” Any
one who has attempted to put water in a point
will oomprehend the vastness of this metaphor. 1
'Jhe Rocky Mountain Cyclone leads off
with its editorial in this style :—
We begin the publication or the Rooy Mountain
CYcLo&e with Borne phew diphiculMea in the way. The
type phoucdar phrom whom we Bought oar outphit phor
this printing ophice phailed to supply us with any ephs or,
cays, and it wiil ba phour or phive weei bephore we cm get
any. The mistaQue was not phound cut till a day or two
ago. We have ordered the missing letters, and will have to
get along without them till they come. We don’t lique the
loox ov this variety ov spelling any better than our readers,
but mistaix will happen in the best regulated phamilies, and
iph the ph’s and c s and x s and q s' hold out, we shall ctep
(sound toe c hard) the Cyclone whirling aphter a phashion
till the sorts arrive.
BOGl/S CERT (CIO ATE8.
It i# no vile drugged stuff, pretending to be made of
wonderful foreign roots, barks, &o., and pull ad up by long
bogus cortificates of pretended miraculous ctires, but a simple,
pure, effective medicine, made of veil known valuable
remedies, that furnishes its own certificates by its cures
We refer to Dr. Soule's American Hjp Bitters, the purest
and best of msdicines. See another column —“ Republi-
can.”
Are you suffering from liver disorder, pains in the side Or
under the shoulder blades, foul tongue, or biliousness?
Are you suffering from nervous weakness and feel
Unfit for your daily duties ? If so go to your chemist for
Dtinstone's Compound Essence op Dandelion and
Pills) and you will get instant relief and a speedy
aid permane-1 cure Read testimonials wrapped with each
bottle, of wonderful cures effected by this medicine.
Dun stone's Dandelion, 3 s per bottle; Liver Pills, Is per
box, of all Druggists. Ba certain to ask for Dunstone s.
Wholesale agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects
Simple in application -sw e In effect. This is the only genuine
Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to all kinds
of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal life, and
therefore may be used without the slightest apprehension
For the extermination of Mosquitos especially, the Insecti-
cide has no equal—as the fumes of the burnt powder, while
throwing off a pleasant odour, ate at the same time most
destructive to them. Sold in Is. boxes by all chemists and
storekeepers. Manufactured only by W. Williams
Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-street, Newtown Whole-
sale from Meas s E liott Bros, and E. Prosser & Go.*
Fo->d Consume nvts. —Scott's Emulsion of Pure
Cod Livxr Oil with Hypophosphites op Lime and
Soda, ia a most wondetful food for the Consumptive It
not only gives strength and increases the flesh, but heals
the Irritation of the throat and lungs. It is very palatable •
children take it like milk, and in all wasting diseases both
for adults and children it is a marvellous food and medicine
Any Chemist can supply it at 43. 6d.*
Doctors
Are getting more and more into the habit cf pre-
scribing proprietary medicines in their practice
especially that known as Dr bell’s (Kidneysand
Liver) bitters for diseases of the kidneys
liver and bladder. They know from experience
that it is of more value in such diseases thaa any
prescription they can write.
Shi
LARGEST
28*30 m the Qlony
BRI DC E STT cyn M C V
WORKS 2*7*229 GEORGE SIT- U 1 U Il.fc-I .
W/
m
BBFORB TAKING,
(non van,)
" A merry heart doeth good like a Medicine.”— Proverbs 17-c, 22-v.
CAUNT’S PHOSPHORIZIFIRON QUININE TONIC.
“ REGISTERED,"
Contains all the elements essential to produce health, and
the only preparation which supplies the tissues with
food. It has no equal. It feeds the Brain, Blood
i Nerves, Cures Diseases of all kinds, Invigorates the
Mind and Muscles, Imparts strength to the Body, Restores
the wasting life to activity and vigor, makes the feeble
strong, and produces an exhilarating effect upon the
whole system, Removes errors in eating and drinking.
Price 3s. 6d., from all respectable Chemists, or sent
direot from the Manufacturer, W. F, CAUNT, the
Pharmaoy, Camperdown, Sydney.
B«wm« of Imitation!, Take •• Substitute,'
in
s*.
AFTKK TAKING.
(*KOM un,)
JJE HAS BEEN THERE.
Mr. G. W. Garrett, the well-known and popular
sub-editor of the Sporting Life, writesIt gives
me much pleasure to state that, having used St.
Jacobs oil for rheumatism, bruises from football,
as well as for cycling accidents, and after hard
riding, I consider it the most perfect remedy I
have ever used. I can strongly recommend it to
athletes everywhere.”
ET ANOTHER,
Among the many marvellous cures performed
by St. Jacobs oil which have come under the
observation of Messrs J W. Henley and Co,,
patent medicine vendors at 543 Commercial-road,
London, E., is that of Mr. S. Digby, formerly pro-
prietor of The King's Arms, Stepney Causeway,
now of 34, Brook-street, Ratcliff, who was an
intense sufferer for years with rheumatic gout,
during which time he employed medical men and
tried numerous remedies said to be specifics in the
case indicated, obtaining but little benefit, until
he used St. Jacobs oil, the great conqueror of
pain. A few applications of this marvellous oil
completely and almost instantly removed the pain.
As Mr. Digby expresses it: “One bottle of St,
Jacobs oil did me more good than anything else I
ever tried.”
m
\
THE SECRET OF ENGLAND’S GREATNESS.
“ W hat Is the sourse of England’s might?
A nd what Is always true and right ? ”
T he teacher asked. The answer bright,
“ The Waterbary! 11
“ E xplain how that may be, my lad,
R eally I think you must be mad ;
B elleve me you’ll feel very bad,
Quite shortly, very."
U nhappy boy ! he turned and fled,
R emarking—“ Oh, the old gag’s dead,
Y ou must have something else instead—
Try Waterbury.”
pure ®nd ffops.
fflauson’s
Jlfew Qopty (Z-hampeLgrie £&g&P
fas S eB i i^eeorc?,
wtfFV~ -^igp
■¥ ? '/■
m
; Sr'r'v/m.
wz* ■>;•■ ' , HHra
~ if/ ,; .21. H
sars*
I
SO POPULAR
an article as Colgate’s Cashmere Bouquet toilet
soap must be just what the public wants. Try it.
All chemists and dealers in perfume ip the oolony
keep


o
re
A0G0BDE0N8, at 7/B, 10/6. 12/6. 16/-, 17,4, «i*
26/-, SO/-, 40/-, to £6.
Speciality j Patent steel noted Acoordeon, double
bellows, 27/6.
it Patent German Silver Reeded A©>
cordeon, doable bellows, 30/-,
NOTICE
THE® 03STHi'Sr
musical mniun
DIRECT SUPPLY
ASSOCIATION,
674
BEORBE ST, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY,
to retam thanks to their numt rous
patrons and friends for past favours,
and, at the same time, to Inform them that
on the
Ist. OF MARCH
They will remove to more commodious
premises,
8 DOORS FROM PRESENT ADDRESS,
Where they hope by kind and proper atten-
tion and with a new and complete stock of
Instruments and Fittings, to be favoured
With your patronage.
OtJfe
NEW ADDRESS
Will be
658 GEORGE-ST., 658
658 658
658 COLONNADE, 658
5 Doors from Liverpool-street,
£ 8, 5/8, 7/6, 0/8, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/-, 40/-, up to 1315.
Ghnuine Laob.en.al Anglo German ... ... 35/-
„ steel notes ... 60/
7/6, 10/8, IS/-, 20/-, 25/-, 80/-, to «20.
pecialty i Old copy Violin, with case, Bow
Strings, Resin and Tutor for 30/-,
LOOK at PAST and FUTURE
advertisements in
“ The Bulletin.”
< Brass and Dram and Fite Bands
furnished throughout,
KXOGER MINSTRBL TROUPES FITTED OUT,
Orders promptly attended to, and all instru-
ments carefully packed and sent to any part of
he oolonles.
Enquiries attended to hy return of postf
F.O. Orders to be made payable to
LOUIS SIMONSEN,
674 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Few people are aware oi the alarming prevalence
of Kidney and Liver diseases, especially among
those who have arrived at or past middle age. It
is declared on good authority that fully one-half
the deaths in this country are either directly or
indirectly the result of Kidney or Liver disease of
some sort.
A great majority df men abbve 40 years of age
are afiiicted with some sort of affection of the
Kidneys or Bladder, and these diseases art on the
increase. Persons are often seriously affected
before they know of it themselves, and thus these
insidious disorders get a good foothold before any-
thing is done to dislodge them.
Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, Bright’s disease, In-
continence-, Debility, Catarth of the Bladder,
Albnmenuria, &c., are among the many forms of
these diseases. Most of these are very difficult to
cure, defying the powers oftentimes of the best
physicians obtainable, and are pronounced by
many to be incurable.
Physicians state that many forms Of Kidney and
Liver disease are very difficult to detect, as in
diseases of this form oftentimes there are no
symptoms of a matked nature. This is one of the
reasons why they are so difficult to cure.
Dr. Pell’s Kidney and Liver Bitters is a specific
'for Kidney and Liver troubles, Bladder and
diseases, Dropsy, Gravel, Diabetes, and
all of that olass of disorders.
It cures Biliousness, Jaundice, Liver and
Stomach troubles, t> spersia, Constipation, and Fites
It cures Intemperance, Nervous diseases, General Genuity,
Female Weaknesses and excesses., . . „
It i3 thoroughly reliable, hiahly recommended, works
nrompUy, relieves at once, end was never known to fail.
P TE 31IMONIALS.
Gents—I have been troubled with Kidney disease; there
was also fluttering of the heart—palpitation, I suppose—
and I had to lie very quiet after going to bed. At last i
thought I would try a bottle of your bells bitters I
purchased some at Redford, and took the medicine as
directed, and after using one bottle, I felt no more of the
flattering heart I got another bottle, and had to take only
one-half of it to be cured. My daughter was similarly
troubled; had no appetite ; could not sleep at night. I gave
her my half remaining bottle, and she rests as well as ever.
There is no trouble with my kidneys now. I shall keep
your medicine on hand
October, 1886. V1 . Wfllnam Ritter.
Gentlemen—I have been troubled ever since I was a chila
with Headaches of a nervous character, and my mouth was
fall of canker sores—so bad, indeed, that I could not eat;
nor could I >ert at night. At last I tried your bell's
bit ers and two bottles have brought me out all right, and
1 October 29,1m 6W PSrB ° n ‘ Mrs. O. Rose.
BUTCHER, FEHON, & Co., Sydney,
AGENTS FOB
NEW SOUTH WALKS AND QUEENSLAND
I A mechanic who has been in ill-health foJ:
wne time wai found hanged in the office of the
andhurst Gas Company one tnorning a whiib
ack. tie probably suffered from that gas-trick
isorder which is sb prevalert just nbw—a self :
cting, perpbtUal'motioh metet.
Two German sailors whb Were recehtty
taylng at a sailors’ “ Welcome Some” in St.
Jeorgs’s, London, deolared to their comrades that
*ew South Wales was the finest country in the
vorld to “ dbssrt a ship in.” They had deceived
it Port itaekson, and at once fctttld employment
>n the Govern merit wtirks itl the National Pai ; k
it Os a day, where they had “nothing to drt, only
jretend to be grubbing a stump when a boss cftihe
jast on his rounds.”
The Corporation of London totei 5(J0
guineas (indirectly filched from charity funds,
probably) fct Albert Edward's silVer-w'eddihg
present. The money has been Etjcandered ofi a
silver model of the Imperial Institute, as it Will
be in the sweet byandhye. bong before that
sham symbol of Federation has got a roof on it
“ Tummy’s” model may be melted down, and thfe
assets “blued” at baccarat. Meanwhile, the
cringing bellygods, who have poured this treasure
doWn the royal sink, Can stand on their Mar Sion
House steps and watch fiovei’ty limp by On aching
fbet, and oount 5bd hungry wretches to whom
they would vote a guinea apiece—no, not if every
guinea could save a human life. 0! ye upper
middle-classes—pillars of “ loyalty,” mainstays of
oppression, buttresses of iobbery, and greasers of
the fat pig 1 what a warm time awaits you on the
grand o’d Gridiron over the Everlasting Fire,
whose myri&d-tongUed flames will lick, for all
eternity, the carcases they can never destroy !
The toast cf the (Jueen is nothing oompated With
the toaM that is to be, when SeelfcBbub bosses the
banquet, the fire burneth and the worm turneth.
Eat, drink, and toady—for to morrow ye are on
the grill! ( That ought to make some of them sit
right up.— Ed. B1
“ I Have Suffered! ’
With every disease Imaginable for the last
three jears. Oar
Druggist, J. T; Andefson, tecoihmBnding
“ Dr. Soule’s American Hop BittferS” ttt me,
I used two bottles 1
Am entirely cured; and heartily recommend
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters to every one.
j. D. Walker, Buckner, Mo.
I write this as a
Token of the great appreciation I have of your
Dr. Sou’e's American Hop
* * * Bitters. I was afficted
With inflammatory rheumatism ! 1!
For nearly
Seven years, and no medicine seemed to do die
any
Good Hi
Until I tried tfro bottles of your Dr. Soule’s
Amerioan Hop Bitters; and to my Surprise I am
as well to day as ever I was. I hope.
‘ ‘ Yoti may havfe abur dant success ”
“In this grfeat anil ”
Valuable medicine
Anyone 1 * * wishing to know more about
my cure ? . !.
Can learn by addressing me, E. M, Williams;
1,103 i6th street, Washingtoh, D.C.
1 consider your
Remedy the best remedy in existence
Bor Indigestion, kidney —Complaint
“ And nervous debility. I have just
Returned
“From the south in a fruitless search for
health, and find that your Bitters are doing me
more
Good!
Than anything else;
A month ago I was extremely
“ Emaciated 11!”
And scarcely able to walk. Now I am
Gaining strength! and
“Flesh!’’
And hardly a day passes but what I am
* ***** *** *
complimented on my improved appearance, and
it is all due to Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters 1
J. Wickliffe Jackson,
— Wilmington, Del
*2TNone genuine without a bunch of green
hops on the white label, and Dr. Soule’s name
blown on the bottle. Beware of all the vile poi-
sonous stuff made to imitate the above.
PHOTOGRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS FREE.
LiCHTNER 21 mi
32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
TN oaiiin,, attention to their extensive .toot of Photo^apMo
1 necessary appliances dA t purchasers of a Photographic
their intention of giving FREE LESSONS in the aeanouve hav / been seo ured, and beginners
The a ro«n»™re hero* promoted from pro-
mature baldness, and the middle-aged from despair.
Cstasdexets
By all the best makers from £3 upward, according to Blze and quality.
Bearing all the best English and Continental Brands.
T**
Of every description, inolndiag the'famed “GUERRY,” the be.t all ronnd .halter
' in the world.
THE VERGARA PATENT FILMS AND SLIDES IN ALL STANDARD SIZES.
novelties by every mail.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
UCHTNER & CO
32 O’CONNELL STREET.
(k»
B.W.T 0 D LAM B.
VUKNITURB and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTNKKRfI
A*b
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING and ©'CONNELL STREE S.
Full suites for dining-room.—■sill
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABII
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAU S
CARVING CHAIRS, and DINING CHAIRS, al
to match. NEWTON AND LAMB.
IKLF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CflAlfe
Patented,
S 3?
This chair adjusts itself to any pos tion, frcm
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the Will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. The aSofs
cut represents only two Of the numerous ositiofcß
that can be obtained instantly, and with biit little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can
now supply portable suspension Stands to enable
the Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with
Stand 30/- •, Without Stand 25/-.
Packin in canvas, if required 2s. Bd.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably Up
holstered, at all prices.
Occasional tables in an woods, immense
variety of designs j also, elegantly finished
In Embridery, Plush, &o. NEWTON & LAMB;
II
w
WRH
ALNUT FA it
FRONT PBDSSTA
WRITING D&SKS, of varl
oua sizes, fitted with ShelvBß.
Movable Pigeon-holes, Slid*
lng Trays, Stationery Draw*
era, revolving portable triplfe
Inkstand, Receptacles fcr
Stamps, and Ru er and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg *
lng or diminishing the Bpace when required. Loci ■
automatically. One of the most useful commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Libraiy
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
shhL.
BO
DRAWING ROOM 0* Si
NETS,
EARLY ENGLISH
CHIPPENDALE
DESIGNS.
NEWTON AND LAMB.
Large stock of pianofortes by tte
MOSS CELEBRATED MAKERS,
BENT-
WOOD FURNITURE.
A VERY COMPLETE
ASSORTMENT.
Many quite new designs.
NEWTON and LAMB
EASY CHAIRS tor Parlour, Library, or fee*
rooms. N«w SbrSshh covered to ardor Ik
any material. NEWTON & LAM 8.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, for
INVALIDS and MEDICAL MEN.
ROCKING EASY OSAIF3 elefan* and rail
fnl, a specialty, NEWTON & LAMB.
k -
BHDSTHADB, all 1181 l
BlJokel-plated and Black
and Bean, ©seas Tarlatfi
Bedding*—All decorlptlonß at
lowest ratal.
NEWION & LAMB.
SPRING ICATTBAGU IS
Worea Wire, In t
mates | alsg, Spiral Speisi
Priss, ftsm Ms, ears*.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
V/ 13s. 6d. j Dining Tables, from 305.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.j Washstands, from 12s. fld.|
Cheats of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Oedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cadar Side*
boards, from m 10s<| Clothes Horses, from 1B«. I3 a
Wriin* Tables, with drawers, from 601,
EWTON AND LAMB,
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS and MANUFACTORY
SPRING ft O'CONNELL STREET*
On July 25th, i889 y Mr. and Mrs. W. E.
Gladstone, should they live, will have an oppor*
tnnity of celebrating their golden wedding.
Mud J. Haynes alleges that G. H. Reid Is
the mcst conceited politician in the N S.W. As-
sembly. Haynes evidently doesn't reckon him Belt
a politician.
It Is related of a certain well-known
Sydney man that, two days after he had left
Sydney to spend his honeymoon on the Blue
Mountains, he wired to a bookseller : “ Please
send me a copy of ‘ Tinny son’s Princess.’ A
fortnight later he wired to old Lehrmann, v.ho
runs a Delicatessen Handlung in the Eastern
Arcade, Melbourne : “ Please mail me two pounds
real German sausage first post.”
Dear Bulletin,—You publish in a recent
number of your paper some rath&r tall mosquito
yarns. Here are a couple of tegular teaser a from
Murray Bank. Pettapsyou hake heard them
before, but they’ll stand relating any way, so here
goes. By the way, I may as well premise that
theBe yams are as true as Gospel, and no “ kid ”
about it. Well, one day when I Was tacking
do vn the Murray in a little dingy with a leg o’-
mutton sail, a whole mob of mo3quitoes, just like
a black cloud, came humming through the air,
and banged smabk against the sail with such
force that they made ft, big hole through it. Next
day, if you please, When I was down on a visit to
Bilberry’s selection, near Kerang township, there
were those mosquitoes fitting in rows aloEg the
top-rail of the wire fence with canvas breeches
on. On another ccoasicn I lest a valuab’e cow.
She seemed to have made tracks for the Golden
Shore and didn’t recur again nohow. FoUr years
elapsed. One day in the remotest Corner of my
selection, up amongst the timber, I found the
skeleton of that cow at the f8et of a boi tree, and
looking up, there on the branches sat a big buck
mosquito, picking his teeth with one of the horns.
—Youra truly,
WARRIGAL JOE.


gPEC I A L NOTICE.
THE AUSTRAL ASIAN TRUST MANAGEMENT
ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
Present shareholders who have Intimated their
intention to increase the number of their shares,
and those persons who have been waiting receipt
of funds in order to take up shares, must please
accept this notice as relieving the Directory from
any promises to hold back allotments beyond the
present month, but as the Company is in ample
funds and is only concerned in getting out the
balance of present issues to meet the requirements
of Parliament, PAYMENTS on aooount of all
NEW applications for shares may be deferred at
bank rate of interest for six months subsequently
to the GENERAL MEETING, to be held early in
March, after which no further shares of either
issue will be made, EXCEPT at a PREMIUM.
The “£1 CASH PREFERENCE SHARES" of
the FIRST ISSUE bearing a preferential dividend
of £8 per cent, per annum, and share of profits
(of which only a very few remain unsold) will not
be allotted save at a Premium of £2 10s. per
Bhare.
The “£5 GUARANTEED PREFERENCE
SHARES" of the SECOND ISSUE, whioh are
payable in cash or by instalments of Is. per share
up to £1 ss. per share, or in full at option of
holder, and which bear a preferential dividend of
£6 per cent, per annum when paid up in full and
share of profits, or a preferential bonus of £2 per
cent, per annum, on and while the £3lss. remain*
Ing unpaid is guaranteed by approved securities
and a share of profits after a payment of pre*
ferential dividends on first Issue, will not be
allotted after the olose of the current month, save
at a premium of £1 per share. And,
The “£1 PREFERENCE SHARES ” of the
THIRD ISSUE, which are payable at option or In
full up to ss. per share in cash, or by instalments
of Is. per share per month, and whioh bear a pre*
ferential dividend at the rate of £6 per cent, per
annum and share of profits after payment of all
other preferential claims, will not be allotted after
close of current month, save at a premium of ss.
per share.
*** All the above premiums may be Increased
as to all applications made subsequently to notloe
of increase.
CHIEF OFFICES:
Corner of KING and ELIZABETH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
WANTED, Files of THE Bulletin for the
last nine years, Publisher, Bullbtim
office,
PEOPLE I HAVE MET.
THE GENTLEMAN SUNDOWNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now-a-days, advancing civilization and the
pressure of bad times doing away with the exer-
cise of a too lavish hospitality, have somewhat
closed the door of this particular branch of in-
dustry to well-mannered and indolent young
gentlemen. But some years back it was a well
recognised and tolerably lnorative occupation.
Not exactly lucrative as regards the accumulation
of solid cash, but its exercise furnished a tolerably
easy life, with plenty of change and variety in it,
to those who elected to become members of the
profession.
• * •
In the old days of Queensland it
was usual to ask the well-dressed stranger
at your gate, who arrived at the sunset
hour, to stop and rest the night. If he turned out
to be a well-informed and companionable fellow
he would, if his horses looked tired, be probably in-
vited to remain a day or two, and then, ten
chances to one, the host would find that he had
entertained an angel un-
awares, who had no in-
tention of taking flight
under anything lesß than
an absolute request to do
so,
* * *
I remember one even-
ing, up North, we were
busy mustering up at
poor Ts. station (T. is
now one of the great
majority), when a travel-
ler put in an appearance.
We had just finished a
long day’s branding and
were all pretty dusty and
tired, and the neat get-
up of the new-oomer
seemed almost like a
studied insult to us in
our begrimed condition.
I, of course, made him
welcome, and at feeding
time we soon found out
that the stranger could
talk fluently on any sub-
ject, and in fact mono-
polised the conversation
and reduced us all to
comparative silence. But
he never made any refer-
ence as to the end or
purpose of his journey,
nor why the district had
been honoured by his pre-
sence. One by one the
tired men went off yawn-
ing to their beds, and
when, a couple of hours
afterwards, I looked out
on the moonlit verandah,
poor T our host,
who, out of politeness,
had remained to the last,
was fast asleep on his
back, and the new arri-
val, smoking his tenth
pipe, was holding forth
on the proper method
of speying cows. Next
morning I was down at
the horse-yard just after
the paddock horses had
been run in, and old
Charley, the stockman,
was drafting out those
that were not wanted.
I saw the two strangers
sent forth with a vici-
ous prod in the ribs
from Charley’s drafting
-stick; and mentioned tb
him that their owner
would probably want
them, to whioh Charley
replied with scorn, “ He
want them I Don’t I know
those blanked old screws,
why he won’t want them
until the boss kicks him
out. Why he was aJI
over the Burnett when
I was there, and I sup-
pose he’s going to give
this place a turn now. j
* • *
As I was going
back to the hon se
met our visitor, wh
immediately drew my at
tention to the magnificent points of the two i
wretched nags which he was evidently pleased to
see had been ejected from the yard. Meanwhile
he indulged in a slightly depreciatory criticism
of the other horßes in sight. After breakfast we
were all on the move, intending to camp out that
night, and as Mr. Trombone (that, he informed us,
was his name), had intimated his intention of not
starting until after lunch, poor T. had nothing
else to do bnt express a hope that he
would make himself comfortable and say
good-bye. “No blanked fear but what he’ll
make himself comfortable,” muttered Charley,
who was getting on his horse close by. It was
dusk before we had yarded the cattle the next
evening, and the first thing we saw as we rede
through the paddock slip-rails were the two
horses of the stranger. We found him up at the
house, clean, radiant, and smiling. We were all
dirty, bad-tempered, and hoarse with shouting :
yet still he tried one man after another with In
invitation to a discussion as to the existence of a
white race in the centre of Africa, but got nothing
but the surliest of responses. The cook was in a
state of mutiny at having had to serve up meals
in the house during our absence; and Mr. Trom-
bone, after explaining that one of his horses was
very lame, postponed conversation for a better
opportunity. After a week, during which,
although Mr Trombone was constantly ex-
plaining to ub his theor of the right way
of working cattle, he i Aver gave a hand
in any way, T. remarked pointedly to him one
morning that “ his horses were in the yard." Now
this was supposed to be the polite way of saying
“ Move on," and the gentleman sundowner, who
“ acted as sich,” usually took the hint and saddled
up. It was a very hardened case whe required a
second reminder. This was a hardened case—he
merely remarked, “ Yes, I saw them come in,”
and turned the conversation on to the beauties of
Byron as a poet.
• • •
The next morning T. put It so strongly
that he announced his intention of proceed-
ing, as though his departure would cause
sorrow and tribulation in our hearts, and having
got a pound of tobacco, a new hat, and some
rations out of the store, whioh he offered to pay
for out of a £2O cheque, which, of course, nobody
oould change, he departed to the next station,
where he represented himself as a great friend
of T.’s, at whose place he had spelled a week
on urgent solicitation ! Even in those days there
were strong-minded individuals with narrow
views of life, who had the moral courage to in-
form the weary wayfarer that there was a good
creek two miles further on with capital feed on
it, or, as one well-known resident did when he
was saluted with the introduction of “My
name is De Cooper Jones,” replied, “ Well, what
the Sheol is it to me if it is V' and retired. But,
as a rule, the easy-going pioneers lacked moral
courage, and the G.S. had them at his mercy.
I have known instances where a long, protracted
loaf made the G.S. really consider himself part
and parcel of the station, and almost Inclined
to send in a claim for salary. There was a
legend amongst the fraternity that one fortunate
G.S. was giving a station a turn, when an agent
from the Bank arrived to take possession, and
said agent being hastily recalled, and no one else
available, put the G.S., beguiled by his glib
tongue, in charge at a good screw on a twelve
months’ agreement; and on his utter incompetency
A CURIOSITY IN HER OWN COUNTRY.
being discovered, he was only got rid of by being
paid up in full. But the gentleman sundowner
is almost a thing of the past. What he does for an
honest crust now I know not, but the places that
knew him, know him no more.
DELCOMYN.
Says an Adelaide paper : —“ The Aus-
tralian silver discoveries that are now only begin-
ning, whloh are in their very infancy, are more
extensive than any that have hitherto been heard
of. All the mines of Mexico, Pern, and California
sink Into mere trifles when they are compared
with these which are known to exist in the Bar-
rier Ranges, on the N.S.W. side of the Australian
border, and at Beltana, and other places on this
side of that line.
In 1870 Freetrade N.S.W. produced 9f
bushels of maize per inhabitant; in 1887 the yield
had dropped to 3§ bushels. For the three years,
1865 6-7, she produc’d 45 000 tons of potatoes: for
the three years, 1885-6-7, the return was 38,600
tons only. In 1877 the colony had 3217 aores of
vineyards; in 1887 she had 3131 only. The acre-
age under tobacco decreased from 1791 in 1881 to
1203 in 1887 ; the yield of barley fell from 148,000
bushels in 1870 to 133,000 bushels in 1887 ; and
the acreage under oats from 24,818 in 1883 to
23,947 in 1887. Freetrade is obviously a noble in-
stitutlon.
In describing the little memorial plaoed
in atu Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, by the Soudan
goat-hunters, to the memory of their comrades
who died in, or in consequence of, the Soudan,
Sydney Evening News says : “We are informed
that the whole of the work was under the super-
vision of Messrs. Hanson and Co. The weight of
the tablet is said to be 701 b., and it is very pleas-
ing to find that such good results can be achieved
in the oolony without Protection, ’’ Freetrade has
indeed come to a pass when it is openly proud of
its tombstones.
At Narandera, aocording to Mr. John
Potts, the Queensland Anti-Chinese delegate, a
white man is employed in building a house for a
Chinaman at a contract price of £2. He has
been already five weeks over the job, during
whioh he reokons he will have made 6s. a week.
White men in that district are digging potatoes
for Chinamen at eighteenpenoe a day. Mr. Potts
sayfl (are you listening, Young Australia ?) that
“ Australian statesmen are too frightened of the
old country to put their foot firmly down on the
Chinese question.”
William Walter Thwaites, an aged Aus-
tralian citizsn in low circumstances, suicided a
few days ago at Parramatta owing to the Id ability
of an official to write a decent letter, and say
straight cut what! he meant. William Walter
was formerly a clerk in the N.S.W. Audit Depart-
ment, but latterly he was making a decent living
at Moss Vale. Possibly, however, he pined for
the old Government stroke ; anyhow, he wrote to
the Colonial Secretary to ask for an appointment,
and received a reply effusively offering to him and
his wife a “ home for the rest of their lives.” Poor
Thwaites did not absolutely look for quail on toast
on the strength of this invitation, but the pros-
peot seemed good enough to induoe him to sell off
his furniture and resign his occupation and come
down to Sydney. Then be found that the “ home”
in his case meant a cold berth in the Parramatta
Pauper Asylum, while his wife was to be sen
the poorhouse at Newington. The old pair,
ever, declined to bo separated, and when the ir
money gave out, whioh it did in a few days, W. W.
Thwaites blew his brains out. “ Death through
being left with the key of the street after being
induced to give up his only means of livelihood."
would have been the rationed verdict, bnt the
jury put it down as “ temporary insanity,” and
didn’t even add a rider to the effect that Govern
ment officers should try for the future to be less
homicidal In their grammar.
G. M. Reed, of the N.Z Herald (Auck-
land), on Spurgeon s seoession from the Baptist
Church
Mr. Spurgeon, in his rigid adherence to the orthodoxy
which commended itself to the purblind searchers of cen-
turies ago, must necessarily believe that the babe that has
lived so long as to open its litt'e blue eyes and smile but
once in sweet and loving recognition, in the tearful face of
its mother, and then to close them in the last still sleep, is
taken away by watching devils and plunged in the blue sul-
phur blazes of a Miltonic hell, there to frizzle and fry and
scream in torture and in conscious and hopeless misery
through the endless, endless, endless ages of damnation.
And why? Not because the tender little cherub sinned
either against its loving mother or its Father in heaven, but
because a naked, filthy lubra, four thousand years ago, took
a bite out of an apple and gave the rest to her husband; and
they lived to be punished for this dread offence in the suffer-
ings of millions of millions of their descendants who, for
this act of disobedience are condemned, all uncon-
scious, and before they were born, to endless ages of woe.
This is orthodoxy, and this ia what Rev. r Mr. Spurgeon be-
lieves, and must believe, if he is orthodox; and he believes
that every man that won’t believe it, even if he can't believe
it, will be taken when he dies, and plunged head foremost
into this same horrid lake of fire, and God, and the good
angels, and the brothers, and sisters, and fathers, and
mothers of the lost will look down exultingly from the
battlements of heaven, and rejoice and glory in the sight of
that struggling, writhing, screaming mass of beings rolling
in agony in that blazing sea for ever. This is what Rev. O.
H. Spurgeon believes, must believe if he is orthodox, and it
is to the worship of that fierce, vindictive, and relentless
Being, tbat causes all this misery as an act of justice, that
Mr. Spurgeon would invite poor, careworn, Buffering man.
And it is because ministers of religion do not present God
in this frightful light to men, and horrify the refinement and
gentleness of the nineteenth century by the bloodcurdling
stories that were required to shock and startle, and drive the
brutal creatures of 300 years ago from sin, they fail ia
spiritual life, and thin their churches.
The Orange Lodges of N.S.W. are now
sadly split up on the fiscal question. Abigail,
junior, states that there are many Proteetionlsts
in his lodge and that it is very hard to make them
vote straight.
CATHARTICS.
Many people, and rightly too in many instances,
believe that the use of cathartics is harmful, and
that if onoe commenced they must always be
continued. Such are not the facts, however, so far
as Warner’s safe pills are conoarned. They are
very gentle in action, do not gripe, are entirely
vegetable, and can be taken without discomfort,
being sugar- ooated. These pills are especially pre-
pared to act in conjunction with Warner’s safe cure
and other safe remedies, and other pills will not
answer as well. In fact other cathartics might
entirely neutralise the good effects of the liquid
safe remedies. As soon as Warner's safe cure and
safe pills have removed the waste matter from the
blood, and restored the kidneys and liver to natural
action, nature will supply the needed oathartio,
bile, in sufficient quantity, and the use of the pills
can be discontinued. Unless the bowels move at
least onoe a day nature should be aided by the safe
pills, as without the constant aotion of the liver in
a hot climate ill health must soon result. Many
evil effects follow constipation such as piles, head-
ache, giddiness, rush of blood to the head, eto., all
Indicating that the blood is being poisoned with
waste matter. Messrs. Warner & Co. have thou-
sands of testimonies from ladies and gentlemen
stating the great good they have derived from the
use of Warner’s safe pills. They are especially
adapted to ladies, and universally used by them.
Be sure and get the genuine whloh always bear a
picture of an iron safe on the outside of the wrapper.
This caution is not amiss when purchasing any of
Warner’s safe remedies—always look for the trade-
mark, a picture of an iron safe on the wrapper.
A NOVEL IDEA.
ORIGINATED WITH A MELBOURNE
UNDERTAKER.
A report has been circulated throughout the
city tha*i a combination of Undertakers are to be
formed to put up the price of coffins.
A meeting was held at the City Buffet Catering
Company’s premises last evening with a view of
ascertaining and exchanging ideas as to the best
method for the advancement of the business Mr.
Melville presided and there was a large atten-
dance.
The ohalrman briefly referred to the ruinous
depression at present existing, the principal
reasons assigned for same being that of Sir
Henry Parkes' intention of closing the Devonshire*
street cemetery, coupled with the fact that he has
given his word to our popular Governor that not
another body will be interred, therefore there will
be no more funerals there j but the most im-
portant and paramount reason being the immense
Importations of the famous life-giver, St. Louis
Lagar Beer which, if steps are not taken to sup-
press its importation into these oolonles, means
“ the death-blow to our business as Under-
takers.”
The Mariposa was detained in quarantine a few
days simply beoause there was a single case of
small-pox aboard. This great care taken by the
public health authorities and the wonderful
quality and brilliancy of that far-famed St. Louis
Lager Beer compel us to state emphatically in the
words of Othello “our occupation is gone."
It was also stated at the meeting and from the
very best authority tbat it is the intention of an
enterprising firm in Melbourne to open an agenoy
in Sydney and offer prizes to promote its business.
A came of St. Louis Lager Beer, with a coffin —an
extra ooffin and a cask of the famous St. Lou*
Lager Beer to anyone getting up a club.
The reporter left hurriedly, saying, “I suppose
your next meeting will take place Ressureotlon
Day."


•AMiifULB UEStLIS SU
nj-MVWMMMC JLHMMIMOVM
'BMKBMOMMOmM
....
m>r^r
o
-
C
'WfiRO
6
IRONMONGERS
12
5
M
c
V
o
REG?
H
<fc
S
jSP*OiAMM»a
Saitf Inrtu Machine, iibasta Fln-prisf Mat, Ilka Oubn Ugkt
HiBOTRO- PLAT3D WARM, QUXLIRT, XQOEaBi
«AI 690X1X9 BTOVK8 1— SJB9MIJB IL*TCH*R'B, JBAXB A WALKER'S
■RADFORD’S WASHIER MAOHMSIS, «&. Mi
COMPOUND
ISSEBCE OF DAIDELIOI
IS A CERTAIN CURE FOR
in, Line ni Kidney Chorion,
Ml
Read testimonials wrapped with each bottle and you will be convinced.
LIVER PILLS act as a valuable aperient and tonic in conjunction with
the DANDELION ESSENCE.
TONE’S ESSENCE OF DANDELION, ss. per Bottle. LIVER PILLS, la. per
Box. Of all Chemists.
olesale Agents, Messrs ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd.
% 7i
fcv
J£cz«ma on Sculp
A POSITIVE CURE
• for tverv form, of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FEOM
u'
Scrofula on Neck„
Li*
O
cc
o
CO
o
H-
co
Sxl
■Pi"
4-
niSFiGURINO HUMORS, Humiliating Krup-
T. t'ons, ItcHing and Burning Skin Tortures,
BJ'*tb*omc Sores, and every species of Itching,
ipfTj Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Hyphi-
j.’ c Diseases of the Blood, Skin, and Scalp, with
(£'■ °f Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap, the
Skin Cures and Beautiflers, externally.
Burning Skin Diseases,
Barbers’, Grocers', Washerwoman’s Itch,
to fmg Piles, and Delicate Irritations peculiar
sexes, instantly relieved by a warm bath
CutT Cuticura Soap and a single application of
<Ul] UK A> the great Skin Curo. This repeated
*» with three doses of Cuticura Resolvent,
# c ®Peedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
when all other means absolutely fail.
Stagniflcent Popular Work on the Skin
*Olv Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re
•tain NT ” Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
“worn to before the British Consul, which
for at story: I have been a terrible sufferer
h&v ? arB f' rora Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
bf rn obliged to shun public places by reason
•lei humors; nave had the best phy
un *; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
w. r «hef until I used the Cuticura Remedies,
oich have cured me, and left my skin and blood
* l'U' e as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four page
“ How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases."
Australian Consignees,
Towns Si Co., New South Waist
CUTICURA RESOLVED , the new Blood Furl-
fler, Diuretic, and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE, Henc#
it cures speedily, permanently, and economically.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cuke (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifies
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby Hu-
mors, Skin. Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes, Sun
burn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies are the only real Blood
Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers free from mercury,
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other mineral or vege
table poison whatsoever. Guaranteed absolutely
pure by the Analytical Chemists of the State of
Massachusetts.
Ifor S pie by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout Australia, Tasmania, and New
UsAaad. Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes,
fl. fj. Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shav-
ing 3oa p, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, *l.OO
per bottle.
Prepared ti>
Potter Drag* O. **.»«**«,. <i,i
ftt
E*.
V
5 tIBRI
Cooper & McLeod’s
India Pale
Ale.
EJJDIJSTBXTIRG-JBC.
Rt OUNYNGHAME, Bond-street,^Sydney.
m bulk
and ease.
Beat BHKR
In the Market,
drawn br all
leading Hotels.
mas BANK OV NEW ZEALAND.
X Sydney Bkanohbsi
BA FITT-STREET, and SBB 6BORGB-STREBT.
Paid-up Capital ... ... f 11,000,000
Reserve fund ... ... ~ 600,000
The Bank has Agents in all the prinolpal cities
throughout the UNITED STATES of AMERICA
and CANADA, and can offer special facilities for
dealing in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commer
oial and Travellers Letters of Credit.
Drafts Issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which oan be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Acting Manager,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
aEECHAM’S PIL.U,
mxEOT
PILLS.
Am* ifl
2TS
Air*' admitted by stuns*
sands to be worth *
Guinea a Bex for bilious
and nervous disorders,
sack ss wind and pair,
ini the stomach, sick
headache, giddiness,,
fulness and swelling
after meals, dißEines*
and drowsiness, sold
shills, flashings of heat,
loss df appetite, short-
ness of breath, oostiT*-
aec*,acur77, blotcb.ee on
the skin, disturbed sleep,
frightful dreams,and a.ii
aerrous and trembling
sensations, Ac. The tot
_ dose will gif* relief in
KsSamfcee. This Is &« fiction, for they h»ysj
it 1m thousands of eases. jffirery sufferer is
invited to try one box of these Pills, smut
he acknowledged to he
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX
itm females of all age# these Pill* are Invaraaffle,
<m a few doses of them carry off all grow immoral,
fmun *ll obstructions, and bring about all that ia
■.tamiied. No female should be without them. There
fe aa medicine to be found to equal BEK CHAM'si
rSMfUMK for removing any obstruction er irregularity
m '&* system. If taken according to the direction.'!
with each box they will soon restore females <rJ
gjJS, egstr to sound and robust health.
- y«r a weak stomach, impaired digessio.ii and aO
't.aorAers of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC," and a
B@w doses win be found to work wonders upon the
moat important organs of the human machine. They
'Srangthen the whole muscular system, restore th>
SoagTost complexion, bring back the keen edge . ?
fcepetite, and arouse into action with the ROSE H- i
®f health the whole physical energy of the human
foams, These are “ FACTS ” admitted by thousai da
Awbracing ail classes of society; and one of t;»
'iset guarantees to the nervous and debilitated «#,
)ieeoham’« Pills have the largest sal* of any patent
medicine in the world.
11ECHAMS MAGIC COUGH PILLS
-i* a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Diffi-
mity in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
Oppression o? the Chest, Wheezing, Jfcc., these
stand unrivalled ; and any one labouring under
of the above complaints need only try One Box
it®' proy® that they are the best ever offered to the
igabiio for Asthmatic .and Consumptive Coughs,
and Oppression of the Chest. They
My remove that sense of oppression and difficulty
thing which nightly deprive the patient of rest,
ifney give almost instant relief and comfort to these
%fFaeted with the above distressing and, when peg
iAeted, dangerous com olain ts. Let any person troubled
with any of the above complaint* give BnoiUi'f
@OT«w Iran* a trial.
The meat violent Cough will In a ebon time be
9@sP.3Ved.
Gum©*.— I The public axe requested to notice theft
ffc* word* “ Bssoham’s Pills, St. Helena," are on the
lioverament Stamp affixed to each box of the FI
SS «et m they are a forgery,
Prepared only and aold wholesale and rated' by
ihe proprietor, T. Beseham, Chemist, Bt. Helen*,
SM&eiuOnre, England, in boxes at Is. lid. and Bs, BtL
aa«Jk,” -Soid by all Druggrxis and Patent Medicine
%aalers throughout the Colonies. a
WJM-Fsll direction* are given with each fce*J w
Oammercial Hotel, Sympie, Queensiard,
THE above la one of the oldest Family and
Squatting Hotels in the colony. Price*
reasonable. Sample room.
Superior accommodation. Hot and Cold Baths.
Mrs. COMPIGNE, Proprietress.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Mklals—
PARIS, 1878; CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality
Atkinson’s Newest Perfumes
FAGRJEA & GYJttBIDITJM
are of rare and peculiar fragrance, ana being
registered can be obtained only of the
Inventors or their Agents.
ATKINSON'S
CELEBRATED EATJ DE COLOGNE
is unequalled for its strength and delightful
odour It far surpasses the numerous com
pounds sold under same name
ATEIINSON S FLORIDA WATER
an exceptionally fine perfume for the hand-
kerchief, distilled from the choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. A E. ATKINSON,
34, Old Bond Street, London.
k Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on“ Golden
Ik Lire " A
MASON BROTHERS,
ss
LIMITS*'
208 to 200 Kent-Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for
SALK to the TRADE and
WHOLESALE BUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
HARTHKNWARS
WINES, BEERS, AWD SPIRITS,
and general
bulk merchandisb.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS 1
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SOKIN and 00. 8
Cognac.
rn, T. GAYBN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS
Edinburgh Pale Ala.
i&umntsaa titovtt.
CIKS1
qualsyy.
BASS’ PALJC ALE.
SOUS PURVEYORS M ttl
p«h.wwbjjl &*» Mnwbm wwreii3»a«»J
LONDON.
By Special Appolntmiinl,
WHOLESALE AGENTS
W 8ALCHIM. JOH*$TO» 4 C0. f
AeaitanUI chambers. Sydney.
G. STEVENSON
Has On Sale—
WINE CASKS, BREWERS' CASKS, VATS,’
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &o.
COOPERAGE,
887 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market streets.
PALACE HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND,
J, CRAMP, Proprietor {late of Rockamptm)j
CONDUCTED on the same principle aa the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A Tirf
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows i~6s. per diem, All meals lr. IS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHlirS, C-QUGHS
AND ALL CHEST AFRECTIONS
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
foB INFANTS and INVALIDS
jKas an enormous sale In England,,
©odta cow being introduced lot© ttio
Colonies.
fE very Stored neper should gftt a
*ka ©Very wise mother will certalnlyf
ose It.
IDrCHXDGES ROYAL FOODMIXXfiU
NLONDON..i;NGLAKD/
MANUFACTURING HATTESS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AU THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
M.na «* t£om*& (ffIKMRh atutJßAN*,
HOT SEA-WATER BATHS.
READY NIGHT AND DAY FOR LADIES AND
GENTLEMEN.
Captain Kenny’s Baths, St. Kildai onre Solabloa,
Lumbago, Rheumatism, Nervous Debility, ' Do*
presslon of Spirits, Indigestion, Sluggish Liver,
Pains in Kidneys, Fog Fever, and Its after effeots.
The curative properties of these Hot Baths are
Blmply marvellous. Fitted with Marble Baths,
ttINUINB SODA WATER.
THE]
"in M Vatir k,
<1 fIIOROB HILL, STQNIfi
Pwfsot Purity Guaranteed,
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA, N.S.W,
Flrst-olass Family and Commercial Hotel.
Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets every train.
J. B. PATTERSON,
Proprletes.
Good Sample Booms.
*rrca •■rein
Copyrighted. \
*nd Whiskers.
. Boyd'* Beard Elixir did thie, i
In nd will do it on either bald '
'head or bare face Force*
heavy Mouetaehe in from ’2 to j
4 toeeha and never fails. 20,000 *
young men already wear full
•IFOIIg
beards, iiavinq used Ito 3 pkte. No injury, easily applied, certain
Packets, If. Qd. each. %tor B#. 6d., post paid, sent under
from observation . Address, Frank Dougin*, Sole Agent,
0.r.0.. W . wa.w.
rjlO JOBBING PRINTERS, fco.
To be sold, a large quantity of Old Type and
Cases, useful for oountry newspaper. Apply,
“Bulletin" Newspaper Co., Pltt-street).


v)UV
ROYAL
now}
m
c
POWDER
Absolutely Pure.
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without tha aid of
yeast, saleratns, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids till decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
the Royal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with mpunity. Maintains its full
strength In any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists,
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government, Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Fowdss Co., 106 Wall-street, New York U.S.A,
Trade supplied by Moses Moss & Co.,
N.S.W. *
WHLOBBAIiB AND BBT AIL
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT, AND IMPORTER.
THE FAMOUS £3 CASE
OF
ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS CONTAINS l—
-1 Bottle Wolfe’s Schnapps
1 Bottle Sherry Wine
7 Bottles Lovrndes' Rum
1 Bottle £ld Tom
TOTAL, 18.
Securely Peeked and delivered Free to Redfern Station, or any Wharf in the City, on receipt Of AS,
Christmas and Holiday Supplies executed on Shortest Notice.
8 Bottles Brandy
1 Bottle Jamaica Rum
1 Bottle Port Wine
8 Bottles Whisky
PRINCE OF WMLES HOTEL,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
CENTENNIAL SELEOt’bAR, 780 Gborgb-strbbt.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIITsiNGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
782 and 784 Gborgb-strbbt, Stdnby.
WALLACH BROS.'
XTXTW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYRYARD SQUARE,
60 CLARENCE STREET, BYDNET,
Melbourne and London.
illckutmd oaxalqsuu wins men lot, ran oa a?plioasbgk.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
vkni, tun rfc. A
ib-u mm
Fer Ar static Posing and
combining softness and bruussw*
Photographs «f
Jt’notograpu •»
CMARLEMONT » *
ROYAL AROADI.
STAND
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION
FIRST-CLASS TABLE.
Terms Moderate. _
siaisaivi nausi)
Corner of --
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STB*® 1
BRISBANE. 0$
JOE. BARRINGTON,
fjIXCKLSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS
Second Brick Hotel Building ereoted
wn, situated corner of Gill and cna ru-nnr j l
W. M. GOUGH,
THEATRE ROYA^
ROCKHAMPTON* g
rHE above is tbs only XMfUtjJSI
Rockhampton for holding
bher Entertainments, and san
ny term upon application to
The Wonder of tt«
COLEMAN E and Sons, oaot * I ?Sd[4» Sgfl
awarded First Prise at the
don for their PURE VOLATILE J n* tty
ML. The only known cure for
iffeotions of the chest. We have J® wg
n receipt of stamps. Prioe, !*•
Wholesale Sydney Agent, W. C.
Cook-street,
G-ISBJLT S-A3IE OP
STATIONERY, BOOKS, CHINA ORNAMENTS, FANS, BRACKETS, EASELS, BAGS, AND PURSES.
Startiimc redaction* for a limited period, for Cash only, in censcfneno* #f the Premise* haring been sold aad treat alteration* pending.
COUNTRY OR DIR 3, WITH REMITTANCES, WILL RECEIVE PROMPT ATTENTION.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
IMPORTS JUi eat MANUFAOTURBKO af
Diving Gear, Brass and Nickel-plat sd Bkop Fronts,
Hydrants, Ship and Mouss Sanitary Wars, Pig and Sfeaat Lsad, Suitor, He.
Beam Mid Ball Teaadlag, FlalaUag, Art Metal Week, Oappemett&las, BUek*salsffcJa« ; Plamklae,
gacSMac, Taak and Girder BmUdlag, BleeWe aad Paramatta BeU-ltttag, el ww &aa«lspttB«,
BOULTON’S "FLUSH," " VALVE," aad "PAJf" OLOSBT3, "yAOUUM" WASBS>
WASTB, PIUmnfTBBS, «Hb
Me Asrata fee Verity Brea, ralemt Fen Scwls, «®s PSree, B9eaBera,
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 AND 9 MCQUARH-PLAd,
BTDNHY,
Fuu PAwtawwAra Am* Fwe ew A
ALFRED LAtfRERCE and C °'
180 OOLLINS-STRSBT, WEST,
Mklioubitk.
91 PITTSTKEHT,
ITBHIT,
Backs on 0^
BREWERS and AErated Water Makers Machinery and Appliance* .
making, Dr. Griefendorff s Bohemian Hop Extract. Dr. Griefendorff a Bohonu*® J
Dr. Griefendorffs Dandelion Bitters. Dr. Griefendorffs Quinine Wine. Utica and .
Bitters. Hop Aroma, Corking Machines, Yeast Preesea and other sorts, LignaEObe tv
and casks. Boakes Liquid Albumen Wine Finings,. Thermometers, Saooharemetert• r
Ammonia and Ether loe Machinery. Recipes supplied for making Dandelion Alt* n
Lemonade, Ginger Ale, Ice. Illustrated Catalogue, poet free on application.
THE AUSTRALIAN BREWERS’
Publishing Office of
JOURNAL, MINERAL
TRADE REVIEW.”
Also
WATER, WINE
bJ&
'THE AUSTRALIAN NAVAL AND MILITARY GAZETTE. J
lofOro
••
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED IN LABELLED TINS OR PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
COMMERCIAL HOTEL, OOULBURN.N.S.W.
famHf.flT.Aag MixramitfAkGhm to* oommaroui
W gentleman andoUieca, citaiii
ftttßlo room* JAMBA BIMQWS Pranrlutn*
A. SO NIC HbTBL, EAST STREET, ROCK-
HAMPTON. —T. MURPHY, Proprietor.
W ayslda Gleanings I—The1 —The “ Western Cham-
hod" says i “ I oan recommend the Rockhampton
lasonle to my western friends.'
MONZ’S
MW ZB AX AND
HERBAL REMEDIES.
TKSTIMOXIAIA
from the Soudan Contingent H Ol pita’
Corpi; alio from aminent Doatori and
Btndentedfrem SpdcegHeigit al i_Z3
MONK'S
nil IKXTIBIi
fi. Bd. per Bottle.
Aik for it end tike no labititute.
ii in invisible oar*. Bee teitimoniili.
2v*oisr:K7s
Okolera, Dysentery, Dlarrhiae State,
A positive cure. Sold by all Chemist*,
Sa. 8&. per bottle.
JMCOHSriBC’B
NEURALGIA MIXTURE,
Ba. fid. per bottle,
Sole Agonca i
MATHFY, V ATHAN A 00.,
801 PITT STREET, SYDNEY)
tiro
(i Little oiiLjNS trbet East, Melbourne.
TO BE LET.—STORES adjoining “ BnlUtln
Office, iPitt-atreet. Apply, this Offioe,
SOVEREIGN
X§ a. 1 AiUrted with Ramutu**
DotOßsrcrx, Aohiw« Pains i» J
Vaou, m Hkap. n't?
Way suffer those exerueiating A .
bottle of mt{ i otfdl
DR. SOUTHAM 8 BHEUMAT» u feff Jl! |
will give instant Rel lef and Cure /**-
The Australian Remedy. No •“?"
neoessary In Bottles, Is., 2a. Bd., 0K "
CURB FO.a BlAQ&ftfflt'A
ROSE'S CELEBBRATBD U f U
This Lotion is the Best and Safest B® o^,
Eyes. It not only cures Swelling „
Blight, but strengthens the sight. £ fC i <
timonlals from those who have reoov ]
its agency can be seen. Admitted WJlnfiP
Faculty to be the safest and best ® aß
Fnv»re« b» tbs Sole af
H. A. ROSE, Pharmaceutical
531 George-street, oJII -
G. S. CURTIS'
Auctioneer & Real Property S
ROOKHAMPTOS.
L.R.C.P., Edin., L.R.C.S. and
registered in Great Britain and Nev? upm
late surgeon to H.R.H. Princess 'WfA
Reaidant Medical Officer to the
London, specialist for the treatment
and Heart Diseases, &c.
Consultation by letter or
charge, at Edgar House, No. 8,
Hunter-street, Sydney.
DR.
IR. J.
w
"VISITORS TO SYDNEY ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF
ITCHE3 Jeweller/, Op era-glasses’, Optical, Mathematical, Scientific, and Sarveylng Goods, also bhe nnrivalled Workshops, In fall swing, where the manufacture
all these Goods is carried on under the constant and personal supervision of the Proprietor. Come one, aome all, to 334 George-street.
T. JT. ’WIEGEiTEE, 33-3= O-EOBa-E STEEB^
WIESENER, WIESENER, WIESENER, WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OPTIOaN
