

URNE EXHIBITION.
IfT otice to lao.ten.d.in.g'
Visitors!
\m X a
■ one of the finest acknowledged sights of Melbourne was to be seen in Bourke-street, and so great was the crush that a
maii to be engaged to keep the entrance clear. What was there to see ? You talk about your Bignolds jumping into
e s * a ge. There was to be seen hundreds of electric lights of all colours, beautifully blended amongst the grandest collection
S k° Wn - Also, a large Lake with gold fish swimming about and wax figures of people so life-like that they made one start.
k{ j” 111 tte large windows of the LONDON and AMERICAN SUPPLY STORE, 99 ISOURKE STREET, near the Theatre
I °ut for the largest Electric Lamps in Australia, and there you can buy every article worn by Gentlemen at the
11. LOWEST PRICES, and the LARGEST STOCK to select from in Australia.
<>
LONDON i AMERICAN
TAILORING COMPANY
Only ONE BRANCH as yet in STDNE7!
But have already Revolutionised the previous High Prices.
Bxancb. Corner of
EY ARCADE & CEORCE STREET.
<ffr
. Feme,
7 H.
N. McLennan
Bairstow,
IDirectors.
The Bulletin


Business Announcements.
ardman Bros.
ANUFACTURERS
NITiRW&TiORSn
Gottir*
AND
tflCACti
ftffMfßS
Si &3BssEsß^,f^^£~7t)
IMRERIWtfNAW
96*9 erncti facto#y. Narrow#
Branch* Ccopc?S£. Sydney
Waverley Motel,
OOLLINS-PLAOE, 00 LLINB-STREET EAST,
(NEAR MELBOURNE CLUB).
I—lfnrti to Visitors, Cuisine Perfect, Private Sitting Rooms, Billiard Rooms. Letters and Telegrams
promptly attended to. Night Porter. Telephone No. 613
MRS. M. COLES, Proprietress.
Business Announcements.
CO
iXSBNtSONS
x
O
37
o
V
Pqqx
SIR ROGER
so
mm
<
a
sc
DIXSONS
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
203 to 269 Kent-sfereet,
Sydney,
Hare always In STOCK for
SALE to the TRADH and
WHOLESALE! ftBUYERS
ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and'
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE,
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and BOMS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac,
J. T. GAYENS
Schnapps and Genera,
A, MELVIN and SONS 1
Edinburgh Pale Ala,
PAIN
BtfffcTON’S PAIN PAINX
CORES ALL PAIN,
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
NEURALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS, &0.,
and taken Internally cores DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTRY, CRAMPS, COLIC, and all. other
Internal aches and pains.
mkm mfZ •old fiverySr/tfsjnp
" ircitoaitoN, mu ««witTo«.
iiTT T 1 ft IT AND BYDNETf
PAINT
w
Office.
ANTED, Files of Thb Bulletin for the
last nine years. Publisher, Bulletin
Business Announcements.
pATENT DIRECT ACTING
mmmm mi,
For use in MINES, CHEMICAL WORKS; for
Working SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINES,
ROCK DRILLS, etc., etc.
Ovek Twenty Thousand (20,000) in Use.
Manufactured toy the Westlnghouse Brake
Company (Limited), London.
Full particulars on application to the Sole Agents,
IMRAY & CO.,
410 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
T> M. R I L B T
(late of the Detective Force)
Private Inquiry, Missing Friends, and General
Business Agency Office,
IS ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Absoonder* and wife deserter* traoed, and all kind* Of
confidential inquiries instituted. Evidence obtained in
divoroe, libel, fraud, and incendiary oases, for the legal pro-
fewion and others. Oopiei of wills, certificate* of birth,
marriage, or death, obtained in any part of the world.
Bents and debts collected. From B. M. K.’s long experience
in the Detective Foroe of New Booth Wales, Ylctoria, and
New Zealand, and established agencies in all parts of the
globe, he is in a position to conduot all inquiries with oaution,
expedition and strictest secrecy, and to faithfully and
promptly attend to all business entrusted to his oare.
FREE
PRESCRIPTIONS are to
be found In the “LIGHT AND
LIFE," for the Speedy Cure of Nervous De-
bility and Kindred Diseases, &o. A copy of this
book will be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny
Stamps. Address—
a WARD A CO.,
Sydney Pharmaoy,
76 Hunter-street, Sydney,
W ■
CAN
RECOMMEND
EUGENE’S
(From Paris)
Ladles' and Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon
As the most central and well-appointed of any in
the city.
WIG-MAKING and HAIR WORK.
French and English Perfumery. Toilet Requisites.
PRIVATE ROOMS FOR DYKING THE lIAIR.
Note the Address
96 ELIZABETH STREET
(a few doors from G.P.0., next to Colonial Bank),
MELBOURNE.
QXJXDBIXTSZLUaLXTIDc:
Millar, carter and co.,
Shipping and Forwarding Agents,
STOCK AND STATION AGENT&
Brisbane Office —227 Queen-street.
Sydney Agency—John Bros., 17 Custom House
Chambers, Circular Quay.
Melbourne Agency—T. H. Young, Phoenix
Chambers, Market-street.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland,
a lomsiev nism
To all Afflicted with Rheumatic Gout, Tic]
Doloekux, Aching Pains in the Limbs,
Face, or Head,
Why suffer those excruciating Pains when one
bottle of
DR. SOUTHAM’S RHEUMATIC PILLS
will give instant Relief and Cure in a few days I
The Australian Remedy. No change in diet
necessary. In Bottles, Is., 2s. 6d., 55., and 10s.
CURE FOR BLIGHT,
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
This Lotion is the Best and Safest Remedy for Bad
Eyes. It not only ourea Swelling and Sandy
Blight, but strengthens the sight. Numerous tes-
timonials from those who have recovered through
its agency can be seen. Admitted by the Medical
Faculty to be the safest and best manufactured.
Prepared by the Sole Proprietor,
H. A, ROSE, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
681 George-street, only.:
Business Announcements.
McLEAN BROS., BIGG A CO.,
IRONMONGERS,
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
612 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
//•
o
6
IRONMONGERS
512
o
<</
Q
<b
«pvo&AXjnram
Quels’ Eewing mcMuo, bArashm Yatoik, \tax\ron
WAXB, OUTUBBTS , TOODS,
»AH COOKING STOVK8 1— DKONXS KDKTCHXR’3. JKANS fc WADKKR’B,
BRADFORD'S WASHING MACHINKS, &o„ fco.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVEBY HOUSE.
:EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS
"ALLNOXIOUS INSECT
FLEASFLIES, BEETLES MOSQUITOES ;
COCKROACH AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARMLESSTO BIRDSDOGS
FOWLS
ANIMAL^O^I^"
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE and Bew are
the numerous imitations.
of
-
sf
JSciam* on Scalp.
A POSITIVE CURE
for every form of
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
V'Jf
PIMPLES to SCRO
FMBMQURIN& HUMORS, Humiliating Brup-
MS tions, Itching and Burning Skin Tortures,
jLoatbaomc Sores, and every apeoiea of Itching,
Only, Pimply, Inherited, Scrofulous, and Syphi-
IM* Diseases of the Blood,Skin, and Scalp, with
3c#ss of Hair, from infancy to old age, are cured by
©STlcura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier,
Sateraally, and Outicura. and Outicura Soap, the
gsruat Skin Cures and Beautifiera, externally.
Etching and Burning Skin Diseases,
Sokara’, Barbers I ', Grocers’, Washerwoman’* Itch,
gashing Pilea, and Delicate Xrritationa peculiar
29 both aexea, instantly relieved by a warm bath
With Outicura Soap and a aingle application of
©JTIOURA, the great Skin Cure. This repeated
flolly, with three doaea of Outicura Resolvent,
’C7SII speedily cure Itching Diseases of the Skin and
Qsalp, when all other means absolutely fail.
| A Magnificent Popular Work on the Skin,
With Colored Plates, is wrapped about the Re-
OOLvent. Also, one hundred Testimonials, sol-
emnly sworn to before the British Consul, which
irspeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
S*w years from Diseases of the Skin and Blood;
fkave been obliged to shun public places by reason
9f my disfiguring humors; nave had the best phy
Biclans; have spent hundreds of dollars, and got
a® relief until I used the Outicura Remedies,
Which have cured me, and left my skin and blood
□a pure as a child’s. Send for our sixty-four
tMOk, "How to Cure Skin and Blood Diseases. 1
. Australian Consignees,
SK. Towns 4b Co., Hew South Waist,
ana Perspiration oi all I ®?‘the
Elements, and thus
it cures speedily, permanent y*
— “ (p*. uiUm *6,-
CiHranfcth,
Sores, and Dandruff, dest: ,
Cntienra Soap, an V» u
and Toilet Requisite, prep» r « pieef'Vstf’
indispensable in treating »«", fle» 'Si»X,
mors, Skin Blemishes, Qr 6t *L~^o°%
burn, and Bough, *sss■
©nticara Remedl® 1 * •** free X’jpd
Purifiers and Skin » b g t^
arsenic, lead, zinc, or any u9 ra t&® P
table poison whatsoever. 0
pure by the Analytical vne
Massachusetts. >£s*
For Sale by all retail^ VjJ
r-essfe^ 1
Si“*SRKS5?®Sa*
per bottle.
Potter Dru* * Chemi** 1
FALLON’S GEORGE HOTEL
T
HE above Hotel haa unsurpassed accommodation for families and
pains to make the comfort of visitors his special study- r j, "
Sitting Rooms without extra charge. First-class Tab 108 '
BO*® 3, . o iot‘
J. J. FALLOW,
spare no
Hall. Private Sitting Rooms without extra charge,
promptly attended to.
GOOD STABLING AND
p tot*


The Bulletin
Vol, 9—No. 444.
SATURDAY, AUGUST t, 1888.
Price, 6d,
fc
You Jee fhy c(ear Jay
(■ f faoqecJoat .
aqj If ee^a 'J ,s
latfic/urqz' ' r/ /
/ coiff Je/ y& u r
OT> Tffrou fc
ro &•** r u^
J6uf-6v f '
3 T Z/;Cl cC
\j 6etfer cro €'/>-
fT/re./y a. So ye/
luiffcju atjcL o •
of Up****&&yr y
Ct>e-a-/> / r «'*e-S ~ TT£<X'£*-' 7£,»Arit>'
/y x / A/rsf- c/itl J I *>~ a ri- <?*-
/> U.V'C- / / Z f/)e. UiCLCs J
!?“Zp 4™s> r \ZtrJ?'-
fm V f* 5 " v l hoar ‘ W* 1
I °yai‘n‘ /'V H- .1 y^r-S
UcD V~\\ /fjL^fr
'* ,\ • rih<l.y pa be ’ u
v /% *
"Jusl' bt f‘ ,r '' '" ? '
bTtfteV
77, S,*?
Were ly/'"'
/yC,/£oi*rp<i^
fboD foR Tfe ve 7
“^4„ 3 t. 3/ J\>D#£Y-
il u#°S> _.-. / X , A
UnnC. CL y '/>
/ 7 ,n rfe- Cofyy-
njoyey. "/ V
Ou, L-Js-
Our /?rf /$ T tp7epe(*
do To j
_ 7/#r> Ac Ter' op. 7>c /
j)'\Too 7>ej>'up /pur.[!
A
arc/s/)// 3 $ oy s/'fe/Sz/jq l/y Ay
e./??/&7y 6cL.r/~e f ducJ: yyyyy^y_
C,lNC,fk CLAK^P
eg*. -1 ? '■•//
/\e<Lucuc u<7e?-.
The Exodus to Melbourne.


NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order , One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors i bulletin NEWSPAPER C0. 8
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 PlTT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
u Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1888.
“So English, You Know,”
Australia, like Northern Europe, bids fair
to produce nothing indigenous. The laws,
the religion, the politics of our forefathers
were graft-growths—the result of the imita-
tive spirit of the Northmen who could teach
the people they conquered only the art of
war, and who, though victorious in the field,
were worsted in the schools. The Northmen
were imitative but not assimilative. They
copied the husk without the ability to absorb
the kernel. The countries lying nearer the
sun did not cease to worship Venus when
they changed her name to Mary. The
heroes of ancient mythology still walked the
earth in the masquerade of saints ; the toga
of old Rome appeared beneath the camel’s-
hair garment of the Baptist with no special
impropriety ; Christ and Prometheus were
not so far asunder, and the cup drained in
Gethsemane’s garden seemed to parallel the
story of Socrates and his hemlock-draught.
The essence of early Christianity was pre-
eminently Eastern and accorded well with
that Grecian civilisation which had its seat in
Asia Minor. A glance across the gulf of cen-
turiesand Gautama appears as a pre-Christian
Christ, and the wife of the Indian soldan forth-
shadows the Virgin and the immaculate
conception. With the Northern nations of
Europe it was different. They had not
passed through the long annealing process
of the highest civilisation. They grafted
the religion of an essentially refined and
cultivated people on to the rudest type of
blood-stained barbarism, and the graft has
died while the rough tree has slowly grown
to the wind-wrought vigour of an altogether
unique development. The old Teutons
stuccoed the red-brick of their savage life,
and on the first tremour of the earth’s crust
down it falls, leaving the bare bleak facade
as rough and as coarse as ever.
O *
The civilisation of Northern Europe has
been the growth of a child beneath a plaster-
cast. The mould has long been cracking ;
great rifts between the joints appear ; upon
some of the limbs only a little of the antique
gypsum adheres; the old mould is now
nothing more than a ghastly and ludicrous
encumbrance and should be scraped off the
flesh whose health it affects and cast into
the ash-heap of the past. In laws, reli-
gion, art, fashion—in everything, the
transalpine peoples have been wretched
and servile imitators. One cannot take a
walk in a London suburb without chancing on
silly affectations of pill-box Roman villas, sur-
rounded with the white, dollish looking little
effigies of mythological gods and goddesses,
lugged by the head and shoulders out of the
pages of Dictionary Lempriere and up-ended
on the Dutch-shaven lawns that owe their
greenness to the moisture of an English sky.
The very birth of English literature was
assisted by an Italian sonneteer, and the
puny suckling was wet-nursed in the lap of
French metrical romance, until the native
vigour of a Shakespeare flung the adventi-
tious feeding-bottle over the white cliffs of
Dover. France was even in worse plight,
and mimicked the tragic genius of Greece in
a stolen buskin, and libelled the mighty dead
of old Rome in a wholesale fashion, over-
spreading the breastplate of antique sim-
plicity with the finical and meretricious
frippery of a Bourbon court gallant. Ger-
many copied Rome as it appeared reflected
in a French looking-glass, and the copying
extended even to the simplest commerce of
daily life ; a grandee could not have his por-
trait painted save in a robe of voluminous
folds, classically draped, and with a Cice-
ronian scroll in his majestic palm.
• * *
Transalpine Europe has been a wholesale
plagiarist. Her life has been, in a terrible
degree, superficial ; save in very few in-
stances her religious and artistic emotion has
been a matter of cuticular phenomena ; it
has seldom penetrated to the true skin, nor
has it often touched a nerve. She has been
contented to take things on trust, and what
her neighbours did she wa3 quite prepared
to do, never asking the why or wherefore, or
worrying about the agreement between form
and act and motive, the ultimate
and the initial. England has been a whole-
sale sinner in this exterual way. Always
ready to repeat catch-phrases, always pre-
pared —like the servant-girl who bids farewell
to one lover on Friday night for another on
Saturday—to anchor on to the first little
bubble-reason that comes floating along when
the former one has exploded ; and England’s
off-shoots in this skin-life resemble their
parent. There is very little genuine national
life in America. It is a place where people
slay pigs in Chicago in order to give balls in
Paris ; where they sell washing-tubs for the
wherewithal to visit the fashionable baths of
Lucca or Baden; where there is not such a
thing even a 3 a national dandy. The Ameri-
can “ swell ” is a copy of his British
cousin, and people do things because “ it’s
so English, you know.” In Australia it is
very little different. Here, as there, people
work hard in bush townships to accumulate
a fortune with which to regale marquises in
Piccadilly; only instead of slaughtering
pigs they “duff” cattle, and build up a
dubious “pile” in retailing unmentionable
rum to the festive swagman in some rickety
shanty in a red-ochred gulch.
# * •
In all our laws and institutions we
slavishly copy our grandmothers, and con-
demn a man to a month’s gaol on account of
some forgotten precedent suddenly resur-
rected from the tomb of an ancient digest
concocted in the blue-mouldy days of the
Seventh English Henry. We even describe
every quality in our fellow-men we consider
obnoxious or undesirable as “un-English,”
and arrogate to ourselves all the virtues of
humanity under the plausible assumption
that all the saints were of English parentage
and that all the people sent to prison in the
*‘dear old mother country” are wicked
foreigners, who never heard of Moses and
who never prayerfully studied the Decalogue.
We take no pride in being Australian; we
make no effort to develope our national life ;
our time is effectually taken up with forging
new links and gilding old ones in the
chain of federation that binds us in
the bonds of grovelling copy to the arch-
copyist among nations. We import our
habits of eating and drinking from Eng-
land ; our women swelter in summer in
winter costumes transmitted by the Euro-
pean fashion-monger ; we make ourselves ill
with the spurious vintages of Europe in a land
where we can grow the wholesomest of wines.
We wear tweed suits and broadcloth, and
gasp and pant in hideous cylindrical hats
beneath an Italian sky because it is done in
England. We eat roast-beef and plum-
pudding at Christmas, and maintain a toy-
house Chamber of Peers whose members are
recruited from the wealthy of the shan-
tocracy. We swill champagne made of
gooseberries ; we pay afternoon calls and
distribute pasteboard ; we have several
Premiers who are over 70 whom we ludi-
crously distinguish by the mystic letters
G.0.M., and we have a Cardinal in a red
silk skull-cap, and a Bishop in black-cloth
gaiters and a laced hat —in dress and de-
meanour as nearly a copy as possible of the
illustration affixed to Gilbert’s ballad
concerning the pious metropolitan of Rum-
ti-Foo.
* # *
Australians are easily ruled. Symbols
that symbolify nothing, forms that are out-
worn ; names that nominate only things
dead ; empty compliments from foreign
potentates ; silly flatteries of the painfully
transparent kind ; capital letters to append
to one’s name on an envelope or in a city-
directory—these are the implements of
governance. We frighten children into the
alleged paths of virtue by the pallid bogey
of a sulphureted hell elegantly pictured on a
scriptural transparency ; when they grow up
they laugh at it—yet continue to endorse the
fiction in public, and impose it upon their
children’s minds, which, if they are strong
enough, cast it off in turn. Names and
forms and eviscerated ceremonial rule the
camp, the court, the grove. Crime is
not dishonourable, but punishment is. To
do wrong is creditable whilst the wrong-doer
is received in the best society. Mother
Grundy is our only deity, and the old lady
is respectably enshrined even in our churches,
alms are given in her name, and to her, and
to her alone, and not to the Creator of the
Universe, our prayers on every seventh day
of cant ascend.
* * •
We have a keen appreciation of the pro-
prieties, and we value everything from its
commercial and society light. Not so very
long since the Roman Catholic Pontiff
appointed a Cardinal to govern the interests
of St. Peter in Australia. We were much
gratified thereat. It was an acknowledge-
ment of our commercial importance—Heaven
recognised the fact that we were in funds.
It was a compliment to our improvement in
the arts of polfier.ess- Heaven sent us a
gentleman usher in a red gown with gratify-
ing letters of introduction from the seraphim.
The Church of England—the latter part of
whose name is constantly reminding us of
our obedience to our step-mother—intends
not to be behind that church whose founda-
tion-stones are laved by the Tiber. We are
to have an archbishop according to the
gospel as it is in Cranmer and Canter-
bury and Henry the Eighth. Our in-
crease in wealth and not in faith is to be
recognised in kind—by name instead of in
fact. An archbishop instead of a bishop, a
gilded crozier-cairitr with three stars instead
of one, an officer instead of a saint, is a
fitting present to a nation which has
forgotten how to live—which has ceased
to do good in order to repeat formulas,
which passes its precious time in absorbing
lists of names which mean less than nothing,
which wastes its years as its moments in
cataloguing shadows, and classifying the
universe of ceremonial ghosts whose bodies
died centuries ago in lands thousands of
leagues away.
* # *
The fact is that the time has long gone
by when the attention of a nation could be
permanently engaged in squabbles over a
chasuble ; when society could be for any con-
siderable period cut asunder by a contention
concerning the right method of wearing a
cassock ; or even with any section’s pre-
emptive right to a corner lot by the Golden
Shore ; and the attempt to erect the ecclesi-
astical copy of an ecclesiastical copy in Aus-
tralia can scarcely succeed in the long run.
Given a due period after the important
puerperal moment and the sacerdotal infant
must die of inanition. There is, however,
some danger that with our customary anxiety
to copy “dear old England” much
valuable time will be occupied in chew-
ing the cud of this episcopal after-
math, and following in the smoke-trail
of this clerical wraith when we could be
better employed. And, doubtless, should
the authorities that wear lawn in the Court
of Arches, and that luxuriate in palaces at
Lambeth, decide to archiepiscopally acknow-
ledge our importance, our love of servile
copying of the institutions of effete, played-
out, copying old England will be too much
for us, and we shall have to go through the
agony and sap-straining of another graft.
For years yet, perhaps for decades, we shall
neglect the cultivation of everything that is
real and genuine and national, to quibble
about the nominations imposed on our
puerile intellects by the puerile intellects of
a distant world. Adolescence is a trying
period, and our first hundred years of settle-
ment has been bard wrought and wither-
wrung with sectarian jealousy and bitterness,
quarrels about the Protestant ascendancy
and threats from Rome, Orangeism and its
antagonistic opposite, until now a fiscal
question is split into religious aspects, Free-
trade nestles in the bosom of the little
Dutchman, while Protection is said to lurk
in a holy-water fort. We have in Austra-
lia no established religion, no governmental
faith, but there is not a country in the
world—not priest-ridden Spain or pontifical
Italy—where Church and State hold so fast
each other’s hand. The first duty of any
national Australian party is to crush the
alliance subsisting between these two fac-
tional forces, to abolish the cleric from the
domain of politics, to annihilate religious
differences, to effectually destroy government-
by-appeal-to-bigotry, to keep a keen ear for
the catch-phrase that tickles, and a keen wit
to analyse the name that means nothing, but
which, in this nineteenth century, is more
potent for good or evil than a faith, and
more alluring than a voice from Heaven.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Minister and the Judge.
Por some time the public have been patiently
awaiting the result of Mr. N.S.W. Minister-for-
Justice Clarke's incubatory attempt at “ con-
sidering ” the cases of Keegan and Newman, of
Mount Rennie notoriety. It is now admitted on
all hands that the youths in question were the
victims of a disgraceful abrogation of the rights
and privileges of every free-born citizen; victims of
a suspension of those rules of court-procedure which
fence round what we were once pleased to consider
British justice—justice supposed to award alike
to rich and to poor an impartial hearing, dis-
passionate and frigid immobility of judgment, and
each and every advantage and opportunity to make
clear their innocence. The New South Wales
Minister for Justice for a long weary time
affected to “ consider ” the case of the surviving
Mount Rennie boys as deserving of full and
free inquiry and tacitly implied a censure on the
Judge who condemned them. Thereat the Judge,
with the tenacity of a steel-trap, pinned Mr.
Clarke to a distinct issue, and apparently with
an indecency of haste to make his peace with his
Honor, Mr. Clarke, after a long and weary in-
terval, arrives at his decision in a single day, and,
without waiting to submit the result of his inves-
tigation to the country, posts away to the glitter-
ing allurements of Melbourne Exhibition. The
Sydney daily press immediately expresses a cer-
tain amount of satisfaction that the Judge’s re-
port removed from the Minister’s mind “ the
slight doubts.that he had,” &c., &c. The country,
however, has nob had removed from its mind
“ the slightest doubts ” which it has, since the
very day of execution and committal to Ber-
rima of the Mount Rennie boys, entertained.
The people of New South Wales know full well
that no genuine investigation has ever taken place.
That, had it taken place, Mr. Clarke is not the man
with the qualifications necessary to conduct it.
That, had he those qualifications, neither he, nor
the most gifted man on the bench, could possibly
review the case in a single day. That Mr. Justice
Windeyer, the judge who tried the case, should
not be also the ultimate court of reference in a re-
view of his own decision. That, after the manner
in which his conduct as a judge during the recent
Dubbo Assizes has been censured by the Press
after those Press criticisms have been made
a subject of motion of adjournment in the House,
reported and printed in Hansard, and distri-
buted broadcast over the country; after the fact
that Chief Justice Sir Frederick Darley has had
his attention called to those unseemly attacks
upon his colleague and the dignity of the judicial
office, Mr. Justice Windeyer is the last man in
New South Wales whose review of the Mount
Rennie case is likely to satisfy the public, and it
would be a very sad thing for public feeling in
that country if it did.
Mrs. Rapiiiport,
The prosecution of Mrs. Rappiport by the Vic-
torian Government proved to be even a greater
farce than the magisterial proceedings which led
up to it. Iu taking up this notorious case the
Attorney General was well aware that his only
chance of securing a conviction lay in the proving
of Mrs. Rappiport’s legal responsibility for the
theft of Mrs Simon Fraser’s watch and chain.
There was no question about the theft, and no
question about the condition into which Mrs,
Rappiport had fallen since her arrest. Any lady
of good social standing, similarly situated, would
be disposed to work herself into a pretty similar
state of mind and body, but that is not the point.
Mrs. Rappiport had already been twice discharged
from custody on medical evidence, and it was
necessary to meet this with conflicting professional
opinion before the Grown Prosecutor could expect
to get a verdict against an alleged lunatic.
Furthermore, as it was known that Mrs. Rappi-
port’s appearance in court would seem to sub
stantiate the “ mad ” theory, and as it was known
that several influential Jewish gentlemen would
testify to their unfortunate friend’s little pecu-
liarities in the past —the Crown Prosecutor was
doomed to lose his case unless he produced
witnesses (as the police had already done)
to depose that Mrs. Rappiport looked
sane and well when she “lifted” Mrs.
Fraser’s jewellery and prudently flung Mr.
Fraser’s incriminating railway-pass into the
silent sea. No such witnesses were called, no un-
favourable medical evidence was called; in fact,
no attempt was made to interfere with the build,
ing up of a strong defence. Under the circum-
stances, Mrs. Rappiport’s acquittal was a fore-
gone conclusion, and her prosecution a ridiculous
waste of public money in whitewashing a crowd
of magistrates. The jury’s verdict, too, har-
monised with the rest of the proceedings. They
found that Mrs. Rappiport was not responsible
for her actions at the moment when she stole a
watch and chain, but declined to say that she was
mad before or after the event. Thus they have
left sane Mrs. Rappiport open to a charge of re-
ceiving stolen jewellery from insane Airs. Rappi-
port and wearing it on the “Block.” Which re-
minds us that nobody certified to this lady’s in-
sanity between the dates of the theft and her
arrest.
♦
Far from the Madding ( rowd.
The new Victorian Budget includes a generally-
admired scheme for putting a cool million pounds
into the Treasury, by the sale of the two metro-
politan Lunatic Asylums—Kew and Yarra Bend.
When this sale is completed, the lunatics are to
be removed to inland townships where property
is cheap, there to remain until such times as local
land booms may make it profitable to place them
yet further beyond the reach of busy humanity.—
Far from the madding crowd they’ll send
That crowd already maddened ;
In deeper sadness there to end—
Uncheered by smile, or word of friend—
The days so deeply saddened.
This is the one item in Gillies’ Budget which ap-
pears to afford pleasure to all, except, perhaps,
the lunatics and a sprinkling of their relatives and
friends. The lunatics, being persons of no politi-
cal note whatever, and their visiting friends being,
alas ! but few in number, and uninfluential as a
rule—for rich alienes go to private asylums—there
is every reason to suppose that Gillies will ulti-
mately accomplish his beneficent purpose and
bring down another surplus next year, provided
his death-like grip of his billet doesn’t relax in the
meantime. Nor could there be any sentimental
objection to ruralising the lunatics if Melbourne
were not their natural home. Nearly half the
population of Victoria live in the capital
or within easy railway journey. Nearly all the
lunatics go off their respective “dots” within
the suburban radius. They are the victims of
Melbourne silver-booms and land-rackets, of
Little Bourke-street opium, and Argus leading
articles, which latter induce melancholia among
such “ constant readers ” as are denied the saving
influence of freehold estate. In the name of all
that’s just and merciful, we ask Duncan Gillies
to suffer these poor gibbering townspeople to eke
out their period of mental darkness in the old
get-at-able establishments instead of banishing
them to regions where no man knoweth them, and
where the dull monotony of the padded cell may
never be brightened by the orange of sympathy
and the faintly-remembered faces of those once
dear.
«,
The Man for a Bishopric,
Bishop Thornton told the Orangemen of Ballarat
on the 12th July that he firmly believed in “ the
divine right of kings,” was “a decided Protes-
tant,” and hoped for “ modified Home Rule for
Ireland.” What chance has an average man for
preferment in the church when persons like Bishop
Thornton are to the fore ? At the very lowest
computation the ordinary man who would under-
take to carry about the opinions set forth above
should have three heads and his hands tied per-
manently behind his back. How else can he
believe in the divine right of kings and decided
Protestantism ? Protestantism gave the death-
blow to the idea that divine power was transmitted
from person to person. One head is therefore
wanted for this remnant of the decayed lore of
the Dark Ages. The remnant may not fill all the
head, but it smells so rankly of the ante-sanita-
tion epoch that it will be prudent to let no young
and healthy sentiment ruo against it. Then, is in


not tempting fate to put decided Protestantism
and Home Rule in one hole together ? It is true
that it has been often done, and the ideas have
been found to lie like lambs together, but not, as
a rule, when the hole is in the head of a man who
orates to an Orange Lodge. Three heads are,
therefore, wanted, one for each idea ; for any
attempt to put Home Rule and the divine right
together would end in earthquake, and the owner
of the three heads should have his hands tied
permanently behind his back as an outward,
visible sign that at heart he means no harm.
Bishop Thornton is able to do with one head
and swings his arms, we are given to understand,
and that is why we eay that while men like him
are to the fore the average curate should make up
his mind to rear his family of 17 on the inexpan-
sive hundred. He stands no chance of a bishopric.
♦
Pizon.
Item for teetotallers. From the London Weekly
Dispatch
“ The shocking disclosures made before the Poor Law
Board of the City of Edinburgh do not go to prove that
repressive liquor laws improve the morals of the people.
The Scotch law, as we all know, prohibits the sale of
liquor on Sunday. The result is that on that day the poor
people go to the druggist fpr their drink instead of to the
publican. But the intoxicating substances sold in
druggists’ shops are too dear for a poor man to buy—with
one exception, i.e., methylated spirits. The poor accord-
ingly began to buy and consume this most nauseous and
fatal of alcoholic poisons, and gradually a queer kind of
artificial appetite was created for it. Among certain
classes in Edinburgh methylated spirits is now the fa-
vourite beverage on week days as well as Sundays, and is
preferred even to the choicest and oldest brands of such
historic mountain stills as ‘ Long John ’or Glenlivet. The
result is that in Edinburgh drunkenness assumes a ter-
ribly lurid form. The drunkard of the gutter is either a
comatose animal or a raving and furious maniac utterly
beyond control.”
From this it is evident that the temperance
movement wants to be put on a broader basis.
While the Rechabites and other reformers have
been striving to tear up whisky by the roots they
have turned their blind eye to kerosene, naphtha,
eau-de-cologne, dynamite, varnish, chloral, horse-
medicine, bromine, ether, soap-suds, ink, sheep-
wash, morphia, ointment, Worcester sauce, and
other things, and consequently new tastes have
been implanted which, in their turn, will have to
be wrestled with in the near future. It is the
same disheartening struggle all the time. Year
after year the bottle of wrath is patiently rolled up-
hill, and just as the summit is in sight somebody
lets go to pray or to swear, and the whole
thing comes down once more and leaves the entire
movement in a heap. And while on the subject
of methylated spirits, we may as well mention
that some of the Australian publicans, who used
to make their extra quality 15-year-old seven-star
grog out of white spirit and an essence or two, no
longer trouble about the white spirit. It costs too
much, and now, owing to the hard times, and the
hard palates of their most regular customers, they
have taken to retailing feebly-disguised methylated
spirit (that is to say, the stuff used to mix paint
and preserve bottled snakes with, and supposed to
be utterly unfit for human consumption) instead.
Methylated spirit tastes rather like kerosene, and
can, however wrapped up by flavouring essences,
be at once detected by anyone who has ever smelt
it. A new law is wanted, in Scotland and m
Australia alike, to deal with the taste recently
developed for methylic alcohol.
According to Postmaster-General Roberts re-
turn for 1887—which has appeared some six
months behind time —the New South Wales Post-
office showed a loss for the year of £lOO,BOO. The
business of the Department included, among
other things, 32,105,100 newspapers-nmety-mne-
hundredths of them carried free. A charge of a
halfpenny on each of these would bring in £66,885
per annum, and—always provided such an out-
rage on the Herald and the Telegraph would
not provoke these two “horgans” into fur-
ther bad language against Parkes, and
induce them to lay deep schemes for his
downfall— we would draw Mr. Roberts
attention to this as a policy which would help a
lot to make ends meet. The number of letters
carried was 41,870,960, and here also we would
mention that the proposal for reducing the inland
postage to a penny all round opens up another
St vista of insolvency with a total loss of some
,000 at the end of it. The New South Wales
Post Office appears at present to be going the way
of all the Cornstalk Government departments,
which way is the road up the spout; and unless a
boom arises in post-cards or something, the time
when this branch of the public service will yield a
profit seems very far off.
♦
The cable tells us that “W. H. Smith offers a
Commission mainly composed of judges to hear
the Times’ charges against Parnell.” The latter
naturally prefers the inquiry to be conducted by a
Select Committee of the House of Commons. The
following extract from the Edinburgh Review
(1818) is strongly to the point :
« a great deal is said about the independence and in-
tegrity of English judges. In causes between individuals
they are strictly independent and upright ; but they have
strong temptations to be otherwise, in cases where the
Crown prosecutes for libel. Such cases often involve
questions of party, and are viewed with great passion and
agitation by the Minister and his friends. Judges have
often favours to ask for their friends and families, and
dignities to aspire to for themselve 3 . It is human nature
that such powerful motives should create a £reat bias
against the prisoner. Suppose the Chief Justice of any
court to be in an infirm state of health, and a government
libel-cause to be tried by one of the puisne judges—of
what immense importance is it to that man to be called a
strong friend to government —how injurious to his natural
and fair hopes to be called lukewarm, or addicted to
popular notions —and how easily the runners of the go-
vernment would attach such a character to him! The
useful inference from these observations is, that, in all
government cases, the jury, instead of being influenced
by the cant phrases about the integrity of English judges,
should suspect the operation of such motives-watch the
judge with the most acute jealousy—and compel him to
be honest, by throwing themselves into the opposite scale
whenever he is inclined to be otherwise.
Even if the judges do examine into those forged
letters The Bulletin predicts that the result will
be a complete and terrible expose of the base and
mendacious practices of the Times.
Have you read “ Katharine Regina,” by Walter
Besant? If you have not, cast your eye over
this extract from a certain speech made by the
hero, Dittmer Bock :
“There will very soon be no more English merchants,
because your young men will not learn the new conditions
of trade. In every office there must be clerks who can
write and speak foreign languages. Your young men will
not learn them, and your schools cannot teach them.
For my part, I can write and read English, Swedish,
Danish, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, and German.
Do you think we shall be content to stay here as clerks ?
No, no. Do you think that I have come here to sit down
with £4O a year ? We are cheap, we German clerks. You
say so. Mein Gott! you will find us dear. We are learn-
ing your trade ; we find out all your customers and your
correspondents ; we learn your profits, and we undersell
you. We do not go away :we remain. And presently,
instead of an English house, there is a German house in
its place, because your young men are so stupid that they
will not learn. I study English commerce ; I study how
it began, and why it is now comiDg to an end. The
English clerk will not learn anything, and expects to be
paid like an Amstrichter at least. In Deutschland we
learn, and we are poor at first. Jawohl ! we are poor, but
we can wait. It is your high salaries in your army,
in your navy, in your Church, in your trade, in your
Administration which ruins Great Britain. Everywhere
the German merchant drives out the Englishman and the
American ; your commerce goes out of your hands ; for
the moment only it remains in London —thanks to the
Germans and the Jews. When we have taken Antwerp,
it will all go there—all. And where will be your London
then ? All—all shall be Deutsch. .. .” Then he fell into
a philosophical vein. “ Let us look around. Already
France decays—for want of men. England has begun to
decay, for there will soon be no more bauern , no villagers
to make strong and pure the bad blood of the towns.
Deutschland alone will spread until it has swallowed
Holland, Belgium, Scandinavia, and India and the English
Colonies, and has controlled America. There will be only
three nations left in the world —Deutschland, Russia, and
China. Will there be one grand world kingdom, with
Berlin for its centre ? Always we see, in history, commerce
which passes from hand to hand ; everywhere one people
which decays and one people which advances. It is
curious ; it is wonderful.”
4,
Extract from the Times’ (London) law-report
of 16th June, of the Queen v. Saviu.e and
Another for alleged fraud :
“ The Lord Chief Justice said, when the defendant sat
down, that the case had better be adjourned till Monday ;
he was engaged elsewhere to-morrow.
“ The jury desired, if possible, to finish the case, and
the Solicitor-general said he was ready to go on, but Lord
Coleridge said he could not undertake to sum up the
case. This was the sixth time the case had been before
the courts, and he was anxious that this should be the
last. It might be his duty to sum up at considerable
length, and if he began at 5 or half-past 5 o’clock (it was
now nearly half-past 4) he could not finish the summing
up perhaps until late, and, as a very eminent Judge once
said, ‘very little justice is done in court by candlelight.’
“ The jury acquiesced and the trial was adjourned until
Monday, his Lordship observing that it would probably be
finished by the middle of the day.”
“ Very little justice is done by candlelight ” says
the Lord Chief .Justice of England. And pray
what says Mr. Justice Winrkykr?
The Melbourne Charity Organisation Society has
held its first annual meeting and published a
balance-sheet showing that the total expenditure
for a year—including salaries, office rent, cir-
culars, sundries, and charity —was £345. Most
of the money dribbled away in the process of
discovering that cases were either “ not suitable ”
or “ doubtful,” while the bulk of the remainder
was expended in humane endeavours to procure
relief for the suffering from outside charitable
funds. Now and then the C.O.S. dispensed a
“ little food ” or a pair of blankets, but there is no
recorded instance of it having warmed the poor soul
with a golden “ quid ” out of the cash in hand.
Yet the Argus and other papers affect to discover
that this cold-blooded organisation, asking for
contributions and distributing no alms, is doing a
glorious work. The “leading journal,” indeed,
grows enthusiastic in pointing out the necessity
for “ preventing the charitable from wasting their
hard-earned money on loafers.” G-cod enough.
But the unfortunate tendency of all these organisa-
tion societies is to check the flow of charity to
such an extent that precious little trickles into the
so-called “proper channels.” The never-too-
abundant stream filters through an official sponge
which grows with the stream.
♦
It is cabled that “her Majesty’s Government
does not intend to surrender British supremacy
in Zulnland, and that the country will be reduced
to order.” This is England’s usual peaceful way
of acquiring territory. She forces her way into
the fertile country held by a savage tribe, bribes
some greedy chief with gaudy gifts to sign a
treaty, harasses him till he breaks it, and then,
styling him a “ rebel,” rises up in virtuous indig-
nation, and proclaiming to all the world his
ingratitude and her unfortunate position,
proceeds to exterminate the dusky owners
of the soil as speedily as possible. The
gospelmongers, who have been supplying the
“benighted heathen” with scriptural consolation
in return for cocoanuts and ivory, highly approve
of this system of spreading the “terewth ” from
the muzzles of repeating-rifles, and sp the British
troops are snivelled over by some mighty church
dignitary before proceeding on their path of un-
holy slaughter. In spite of all this people are
sometimes stupid enough to express surprise at the
want of interest taken nowadays in church affairs,
and Britishers on leaving home for the first time
are puzzled when they discover that the name of
Britain has bicome a synonym for “ petty thief ”
among the nations.
Unvell It Not
(ON THE PROPOSED STATUE TO GOVERNOR PHILLIP.)
Stay ! hireling sculptor, ere upon that face
Your cunning hand another line shall trace,
And answer us who straight demand to know
In mercy’s name, and truth s, what is't you do ?
Bub no ! ’tis thine to chisel out for bread
Virtue and vice, in living and in dead ;
So, farewell artist, lest thou blush to bear
In this defection such a heavy share.
But what of those whose passing power alone
Is warrant for a deed the which to atone
The feet of all who dare to call them free,
Must tram]) to death such bastard loyalty ?
Let them look back to Young Australia’s birth,
Whose infant ears caught up the ghastly mirth
Of men who stained her early maidenhood
With brands of gyves and gouts of human blood;
And, looking down the cycle lately flown,
Hear curses borne on many a dying moaD,
While swishing cats fall fast on livid backs,
And tortured wretches seek, through bloody
tracks,
Rest on the gallows, from whose blackened bar
Women and boys are dangling near and far,
Whilst the sharp clank of newly-welded chains
Tells that more.hellish work behind remains.
View, then, the picture ye who fain would raise
Your sculptured idol to the public gaze;
And know its living type was chief among
The loyal arbiters of that gay throng.
Then, if ye quail not at the gruesome sight,
Unveil your image, God defend the right.
But pause, lest Austral with arms stronger grown
Shall seize the effigy and hurl it down,
And dare ye to exalt with loud acclaim
Her children’s vile inheritance of shame !
Unveil it nob, lest future ages say,
What men were those w r ho stamped their sins in
clay
And would not let their own dishonour die,
But made a fetich of their obloquy ?
Unveil it not lest gibbering ghouis shall break
Their flimsy confines and troop back to make
An old-time orgie, and for fitting pall
Cast their weird shadows o’er your festival;
And ghosts shall mock to see how humans can
Out of a tyrant carve a noble man.
Melbourne.
HENRY O'DONNELL.
Aboriginalities.
On board an outward-bound P. and O.
steamer a conversation arose on the subject of
Australian birds. An Englishman, who had been
out here before, doncherknow, was explaining the
peculiarities of the laughing-jackass, and asserted
shat it had two distinct notes, one for the
morning and the other for the evening : one meant
“Good morning ” and the other “Good night.”
His audience did not appear to believe it, so he
appealed to a young Australian, who replied :
“Well, I know a good deal about jackasses, but
I’m not jackass enough to know what they talk
about.”
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —A lot of idiots are
always trying to find out why people enjoy them-
selves and what effect their weaknesses have on
constitutions which are affected by a hundred
other surroundings. Where is that apistinated
Drink Commission’s report gone ? Dr. Harley,
of England, has got the bulge on them and written
a thesis on “ The Influence of Nipping upon
Health.” His pamphlet and the works of Spencer,
<fcc., have slightly turned my cerebral circuits
from their even flow. After reading this —
“ Almost every drop of alcohol taken into the stomach
is absorbed by the branches of the portal veins, is con-
veyed directly to the liver, and h-s to filter through its
tissues,”
is it wrong to hope that, after my corruptible
body is disintegrated, I may become the liyer of
a certain M.L. A.’s new metamorphosis ? Again:—
“ Harley claims to have obtained ‘ pure alcohol' from
the kidneys of persons who have died intoxicated.”
This is simply offering drunken medicos a new
chance of a nip or two when making a post-
mortem. However “ alcohol possesses the power
of preventing the constituents of the blood from
being properly oxidized.” We have now a new
name for “ seeing a man.” I am off to stop the
oxidisation of my blood. “ Rum hot, missy,
please.”— Scotty the Wrinkler.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, —One was an overbearing
Scotch squatter, and the other was an Italian
cocky who had carried with him from his native
Tipperary all the old hatred of land-grabbers,
tyrants, and oppressors. They lived close together
and quarrelled over a fence, and the pasturage of
the Government reserve. Things became very
warm, so the squatter offered to buy out his
neighbour at a price which was scorned. One day
they met, and as the selector scowled and mut-
tered something inaudible yet terrible, the big
man cried, “Dinna look so black, mon ! Why
dinna ye sell oot ?” “ Salute you in a free country
like this, ye mangy spalpeen ! Take that !” The
loaded whip descended, and a coroner’s jury after-
wards brought in a verdict of accidental death. —
Yours, One Who Has Been There.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —I see in the papers a
paragraph stating that some one is trying to get
a free pass to Melbourne Exhibition on the
strength of his being the holder of the first miner’s
right issued in Victoria. I beg to state that I was
the first man who was chained to a log in Vic-
toria and kept there all night —for not having a
gold license—and I doubt very much if I have
half a show to get a free pass on that recommenda-
tion. I haven’t time just now or I should set to
and curse the impudence of this musty miner with
the mouldy miner’s right. Just think of anyone
trying to take precedence of a man who claims to
be the first fellow chained to a log in Victoria by
the grace of God ! It’s enough to make a drill-
walloper sit up and howl like a dingo. ’Twas
ever thus.—Yours, C.M.G. Wentworth, July
17th. P.S. —We have a rale live Irish lord up at
Mildura—a boy of the Ranfurlys. Put that in
your pipe and smoke it, —C.M.G.
* * *
One Anson was brought to the Melbourne
Hospital the other day with a gash across his
organ of idealism, and several picturesque
abrasions around his shell-like ear. He stated
that he had been sleeping in a local hotel, and had
called out in the night for a drink of water, and
that the landlord had come into the room and—in
a fury of rage—had inscribed these hieroglyphics
on his head with an iron bar. Our sympathies
are entirely with the landlord. Why should he
be insulted in his own house without retaliating ?
And what else but an insult was it to call out for
water in a hotel ? The landlord didn’t pay for his
license by selling water. And, for the matter of
that, wasn’t there enough water in the whisky he
sold ? Take it how you will Mr. Anson got off
easily with his life.
• • •
Dear Bulletin, — I write concerning a
great wrong done by one class of workmen
against another class. Shearing started on
Euroungellah (Q.) on 28th June, and there was
a full roll of shearers. Some were union men and
some were not. The ODly difficulty that blocked
the way for the shed opening was the inability of
the manager to procure rouseabouts at lower
wages than 303. This is how that point was settled.
Half the shearers went on shearing and the other
half acted as rouseabouts until the manager was
able to secure the services of a gang of Chinamen
at 255. These same shearers would have been
very indignant if they had been on strike and
anyone had offered to shear for 17s. 6d., but it
appears that they are mean enough to do so them-
selves. One of the Chinamen has already so far
advanced as to wound the white cook with a
tomahawk by striking him on the hand which he
raised to save his head. They are also allowed to
smoke opium in the men’s hut. Could not the
attention of the various Shearers’ Unions be drawn
to the above facts ?—Yours, Soda and Acid.
# * *
The Bulletin warns people who go to
Melbourne Exhibition against drinking liquors
kept in plain decanters. When the “ pizen ” is
sold in labelled bottles it is subject to excise super-
vision under the Trade Marks Law. When kept
in a decanter it is beyond such restriction.
• * *
A back blocks’ squatter, after reading about
the good effects produced by eucalyptus trees if
grown around homesteads, determined to plant a
number of them about his place. He wrote to
his Sydney agent to forward him fifty young trees,
and in due time he received a parcel with a con-
siderable bill for trainage, etc. ' On tearing open
the covering to the parcel a look of bewilderment
flashed over his features and he muttered: “Why,
the d d fool has sent me gum trees !”
# « - *
A pious preacher, who has been spreading
a knowledge of how Solomon had 700 wives among
the Caffres of South Africa, writes to a religious
paper to state that a heathen was once sent to him
with four loaves of bread and an invoice. The
black reprobate ate one loaf on the wav and was
surprised to find that the dumb bill told the
missionary what he had done, but being a nigger of
resource he sat on the account next time to prevent
it seeing what he was about. It is an interesting
little tale, but we rise with a shriek to point out
that anecdotes like these are about the only things
the average missionary ever has to show for all
the money that is spent on him.
Daring the hearing of a N.Q, station
wages’ ease, a witness deposed that the grub
“ wasn’t fit for a dog to eat,” and that on one oc-
casion a horse’s hoof with the shoe attached had
been fished up out of the pickle of the corned-beef
cask. An iron tonic, no doubt.
* * •
The common elopement, in which two
heady young lovers of limited experience and pre-
carious income combine to frustrate the wishes of
a cool, calculating parent, of massive build and
hoggish sentiment, has lost much of its moral
grandeur of late years, and the farcical termina-
tion of a midnight flitting, mapped out by an in-
genuous young potato-miner residing in bucolic
simplicity down near Warrnambool (Vic.) the
other night, is not likely to elevate its tone or re-
assert its dignity. The gay gallant was lank, and
loose, and slipshod; hehadlongblondehair, chopped
off suddenly behind, was freckled in large, irregu-
lar patches, and was nearly as intelligent as a
sunstruck goat, although he did not look it. His
Junet’s other name was O’Dermott, and she was
squat, and spotted with moles, and flabby, and
inert; she was subject to fits of abstraction, and
would settle down and gaze pensively into the
far-far-away, whilst the hog-wash boiled over and
hens got bogged in the butter. It was cruel to
expect a creature of her style and build to steal
forth into the fog at that hour when the heavy
ploughman’s snore commingles with the snorting
of the monkey-bear, but her pa was a ruthless
old “ spud-breeder,” and he got drunk and swore
for two days with only three adjournments
for refreshments when the long-drawn, camel-
gaited youth from across the creek asked her hand
in wedlock, and took oath to blow a hole clean
through the suitor if he did nob fly the scene, and
frequent distant parts only accessible per pack-
horse. So the fond couple resolved to skip at the
dead of night and be united in the metropolis at
job-rates. The night fixed upon was dark and
lowering, and, at the appointed hour, the lanky
lover came shambling through the glooirn
colder than a frog in winter, and feeF
ing a heavy burden on his conscience. He
gave the code of signals, and galloped about to
ward off the frost, and blew on himself, and chat-
tered freely for an hour or so ; but Juliet did not
transpire, so he threw some more gravel, and bel-
lowed softly. Thirty minutes later the fond
damsel thrust her ragged head out into the night,
and said she didn’t think she’d elope on that occa-
sion—it was so cold, and she was too sleepy;
wouldn’t it do some other time ? and Romeo ex-
hausted his eloquence in convincing her that the
business they had in hand would not admit of post-
ponement, but must be carried through in its
entirety, on the impulse of the moment, or some-
thing hateful would happen. Whereupon J uliet
withdrew her top end, remarking that she’d have
to take her curls out of paper', and do herself up a
bit; but she must have gone to bed again for a
spell, as it was two hours later when she wandered
forth, and 1 landed Romeo a parcel as big as a
mattress, three hat-boxes and a portmanteau.
Then the elopement started out, but it had not
gone 30 yards when the watch dog awoke to his
duty, and came forward to prosecute enquiries,
and Romeo, in his anxiety to avoid closer investi -
gation, stepped aside, and fell down a well which
had 10 feet of water in it, and no means of egress.
He took his load down with him, and had the
melancholy pleasure of sitting astride Juliet’s
baggage and howling for assistance for two hours,
whilst the faithful bull-pup hung his head over
the brink and patiently awaited developments.
The fair flitter’s first action on discovering that
her true love was afloat on the deep was to return
to her room and crawl under the bed, believing
that she would be hung as an accessory before the
fact. The long loose levanter was rescued at day
dawn by Juliet’s pa, and held over for medical
inquiry. He is quite cured of his craving for
matrimony. Juliet has come out of hiding, and
the old man has discharged his gun.
* * *
The giant strength of Aryan civilisation
was strikingly manifested last month in the alli-
gator wilds of Carpentaria. There was a little
row on between two angry tribes, and the warriors
of each nation wiped the mud off themselves and
prepared for the fray. They walloped their
women and children to get their hands in, and
then the heathen in his blindness let off a series of
heartrending screams and advanced to the battle-
field. Each tribe was resolved to fire the other
bodily into the Shadow Land, and they waded
sternly forward, with ferocity on each counten-
ance and a drawn boomerang in every hand.
There were 200 men on one side and 120 on the
other, and all were resolved to swim in blood.
But just as the two hosts were about to meet in
the clash of horrid strife, Constable O’Hooligan
loomed up over the adjacent hills with a bit av a
shtick in his hand, and called out to the contend-
ing armies that he would run them in. TheD,
with one accord, they dropped their weapons and
fled, and two clouds of dust marked the line of a
nation’s retreat. It is hardly worth sending mis-
sionaries to men like these any longer, The
superstitious awe with which a nigger views an
Irish policeman marks Mm as too degraded to
live.
The advocates of Decentralisation in
N.S.W. say that the great want of the country
districts is that they be pub on a level with the
metropolis. Quite so. The most urgent want of
the back-block people is that all drinks, especially
long beers, should be sold at 3d.
* * *
Up North, on a recent Peter’s Pence Sun-
day, an Irish priest, addressing his congregation,
said : “ To-day, my friends, each of you is ex-
pected to give something to the Holy Father. I
don’t expect it can be very much, as you have had
so many calls on your charity lately.” All this
was accepted as a nod and a wink combined.
There was a young maid of Echuca,
Who cheated her lover at Euchre :
She secreted an ace
With so smiling a face
That he hadn’t the heart to rebuke her.
An ardent pedestrian tram pit on
Until he arrived at Rockhampton,
There he sat on the ground,
But his pants, so he found,
Became scorched in the part that he camp’t op.
A blushing young girl of Gomorrah
Exclaimed : “ I’ll be married to-morrah
But down came the brimstone,
And altered the nymph’s tone —
Eor she only got buried, begorrah !


CORRESPONDEDCE
“ A.M.” : It is, as you remark, a curious fact
that when certain prominent members ol the Asso-
ciation named are publicly charged with being the
landlord;-; of Chinese gambling-dens they calmly ignore
the allegation. There is only one conclusion to be formed.
.... “ Non-Nigger Sympathiser ”: All right, but we don’t
print libels about obscure blackfellows “E.W.S.”:
It won’t do “Poetical Justice”: We’d have
copied it ourselves had it been worth our while....
“ Native ”: A good story “ C.G.M'G ” : Excellent
“ C.M.A.” : Thanks. Too hot for publication in present
form “J. Dunlop” (Melb.): We cannot vouch for the
statements. The paragraph was obviously an advertising
notice.... ,r ßoss” : Just as ancient potentates were wont
to write a message intended for friendly powers on a
slave’s shaven head, and then send him along when his
hair grew “W.K.” (Brewarrina): Thanks. Good
yarn “ F.H.” (Day Dream): We printed it long ago...
“A.C.C.”: Many thanks....“ Fair Play to All”: Will
think over the matter. Your suggestion amounts to a
proposal for establishing courts of conciliation, as in
France “A.W.M.”: Thanks. Writs again....“ Soda
and Acid” (Q.): Write again “Bushman” (Western
Port): Much obliged....“ W.A.”: No, let the woman
take her trial according to law. We aren’t going to help
to try her in the newspapers “ W.R.S.” : It is true
that Messrs. Dawson, O’Sullivan, and Woodward were the
only members of the N.S.W. Assembly who voted against
the Amended Flogging Bill, but that is no test of the
feeling of the House on the actual question of flogging.
The amendment was only intended to give effect to what
the House had previously determined. When the flog-
::ij;g clauses of the Criminal Code come up for discussion
a very different division-list may be confidently looked
tor.,Broken Hill”: The errors of all sorts which the
notice reveals only show that the wealthy classes in Aus-
tralia have not a monopoly of bad grammar “ Sage” :
.Surplusage “ E.P.”: M'Elhone did Eyeglass Bailey an
injustice when he spoke of the indignity to which Bailey
was subjected at Cooktown years ago. The man who
threw things at Bailey was hired by a cowardly enemy of
the little man—one who did not dare to do his own dirty
work and he was sent to gaol for a year for his offence.
Bailey’s character is quite as good as Parkes’, anyhow....
“ A.M'C.” : Thanks “ Lover of Justice” : A most ap-
posite and telling extract “Elsinore” (Maryborough,
Q): Thanks for cutting.. “P. Jackson ”: Will consider...
’ ‘ Scoto-Australian ”: The fact that the tenement-house
system is an ancient one and widely adopted, is no argu-
ment for its introduction into Australia. Dirt and general
foulness are more ancient still, yet they remain as
objectionable as they were at first. If the workman’s
cottage is small and overcrowded that is a good reason
■ by something should be done to improve the workman’s
ondition, but the introduction of the “ Scotch system,”
which you vaunt so highly, is aggravating the evil a
thousand fold. The cheap Scotch tenement consists of a
huge block of one and two-roomed dwellings, where the
slightest semblance of decency becomes impossible. The
writer has explored hundreds of them and has found
hardly one which was calculated to afford joy to swine....
“ H.P.” (Elsmore): When we said that N.Z. had been run
on semi-protective principles we meant that she had en-
joyed a certain amount of accidental Protection at the
bands of Freetrade politicians. For revenue purposes
taxes were levied on almost everything under the sun,
but as manufactured goods and raw material—thiDgs
which could he produced in the colony and things which
could not -were taxed almost indiscriminately, intelligent
Protection was almost unknown. The clothing industry
' was one of the few which received genuine support, and
as a consequence N.Z. tweeds are sold freely in Sydney
and are cheaper and better than the imported goods
of Europe “J.F.” (L.): Next week, probably
' T.P. B.” : Hymns on the death of Samuel Jones can only
.be accepted at advertising rates “ Germanicus Odi ” :
The native-born Australian who cills himself “Herr”
when he goes on the stage probably does it because it
makes him feel better. We don’t much care what he
tils himself, really “ J.K.”: We have only one strong
objection to your poem in which “loud sounds the
trumpet ” comes so often to the front. Our complaint is
that the trumpet hasn't sounded yet, and consequently
we must wait for the yell of the brass funnel before we
publish your little production “ Bally ” : Pretty lively.
“ Richard Sanders" (Peat’s Ferry): There’s no doubt
about the truth of what The Bulletin has said re
Governor Phillip. If you want to know what sort of a
system would be apotheosised by the erection of a statue
to the man, just read Collins’ History of N. S. Wales right
through. If the N.S.W. Government put up a statue to
Phillip on publio ground out of the public funds, The
] ;c[.i,ktin would be tempted to consider the advisableness of
collecting money to commemorate in bronze the virtues
of Judas Iscariot, Barabbas, or the first N.S.W. hangman.
They are going to set this coarse man Phillip up in endur-
ing brass merely because it’s a hundred years since he
came here. To erect a statue to this minion of a brutal
system is a blasphemy against humanity. Governor
Phillip did not make the eloquent speech attributed to
him; this oration was a pure invention on the part of
Flanagan, or somebody from whom Flanagan borrowed
it “S.S.” : Navvies get 7s. a day in protected Victoria,
and are well satisfied with it, as it carries constant work.
. ~.“F.D.” (Pama Bay, N.Z): Noted—“E. Waley”:
Tiie Bulletin has only fought for the even-handed
administration of justice. ...“Tasman”: Will publish
soon...“ Robert B,” (West-st.): Next week.. .“W.W.A.” :
But isn’t the falling off in the drink-consumption of
N. S. Wales merely a concomitant of the falling-off in
what economists are pleased to call “prosperity?”
“E.P.": Unless you can show that the letter contained
money which has been appropriated by the receiver, we
are afraid you can do very little beyond reporting the
Consul to head-quarters for failing to deliver.. “ E.C.G.”:
Handed to artist “ A. Melb. Reader” Why didn’t you
send us the cutting. We don’t keep the Argus—we flip
it into the dust-bin.
\Ve are this week compelled to hold over
our usual instalment of the “ History of Botany
Hay.
W hen, the Czar met Emperor William the
other day, he fell upon his neck and kissed him.
The accursed drink, again.
1! All looks yellow to the Johndiced eye.”
! hi.; is why the Escaped Haynes, of the Sunday
News, sees so many “ denominational ” organs
about,
The Referee
Hanlan may possibly regain the champion-
ship, but he will not take it away from Australia.
He has sent for his wife and family. If rumour be
correct, the Canadian, with a missus of average
vigilance to look after him and make him keep to
bis work, would never have lost in ’B4, and Bill
Beach, oblivious of the sweets of colonial hero-
worship, might now be swinging his hammer in
the Dapto forge.
• • •
When in the zenith of his career, just
after his defeats of Trickett and Laycock, Hanlan’s
fall was predicted. He quarrelled with his trainer
and backer, David Ward, of the Ward brothers,
Toronto, who held a tight rein over him. With
the exception of Lang the pedestrian, great cham-
pions—Sayers and Hutchens, to wit—were ever
with difficulty restrained from indulgences fatal
to training, and Hanlan, who seems anything but
strong-minded, may be another example.
Good judges who have seen Beach and
Teemer and Gaudaur, still think the Hanlan of
’79 and ’Bl was the best man that ever sat in a
boat. Public form shows that Beach and Trickett
were worth matching, though the former might
be superior. But in ’Bl Hanlan was to Trickett
what a greyhound is to a pug-dog, or an English
express train to a N.S.W. tram.
• « •
In the match played by the Australian
Eleven versus an Eleven of England, at Birming-
ham, the crowd shouldered W. G. Grace to the
wickets previous to the Australians commencing
their second innings, and it took the police 35
minutes to clear the ground of the gentle Brum-
magem lads, who killed two birds with one stone
—carrying W.G. and picking all the pockets they
could lay hands on, or rather into. We have
much to learn in the colonies. When our crowd
rushed the ground on the memorable occasion of
which the English papers made such capital, we
didn’t hear of a single person being “gone
through.”
“Poor Little Dick!” sung out a book-
maker, at Tiosehill on Saturday, to the high-
stepper’s driver —“ Don't be too hard on poor
Little Dick. He means well, but he don’t know.
Don't beat poor Little Dick.” The metallician’s
commiseration for the poor dumb beast which
couldn’t speak for itself deserves recognition at
the hands of the Cruelty to Animals’ Society.
# * •
Peter Jackson has at last got some genuine
work on hand, having been matched against
Godfrey, the coloured champion of the States, to
box for a purse contributed by the Californian
Club, the fight to come off in their rooms. Jack-
son is without doubt a lightning fighter, and may
dispose of Godfrey out of hand, but should the
Yank, who is described as a powerful plucky fel-
low, withstand Jackson for a few rounds, he will
have a good show of wearing down the Aus-
tralian, who has not so far shown that he is pos-
sessed of the best staying powers.
• * *
There are now three Woods prominent in
the ’cycling world —our own amateur champion,
Ered. Wood; the gay Lothario of Melbourne
divorce fame ; and the latter’s recent victor, a
namesake (C. Wood), from Tyneside.
* * «
Searle’s victory over Stansbury has not
shaken off Hughes, of Newcastle, who intends to
go on with the match. A meeting between Stans-
bury and Neil Matterson is also spoken of, and,
should it eventuate, a win for Stansbury would
not be a surprise, as Matterson completely wore
himself out by training before he was properly set.
* « •
After Slavin’s evasion of Costello’s recent
challenge and his careful avoidance of Peter Jack-
son, it is disgusting to learn that certain nobodies
in Melbourne are going to present him with a 500-
guinea diamond belt.
* * #
The hollowness of the aff ur will be seen
when it is borne in mind that anyone disputing
the sham champion’s title must be prepared with
a stake of not less than 250 guineas, a sum five
times as large as was requisite to be put up for the
championship of England.
* * *
Australia had rather the worst of the deal
in their match with Yorkshire, the Tykes scoring
107, of which Ulyett made 48, against the Austra-
lians’ 49. In the second innings Yorkshire made
48 for the loss of 9 wickets, when the game was
abandoned on account of the rain. So far, the
Australians have beaten Thornton’s Eleven, War-
wickshire, Surrey, Oxford, Yorkshire, Oxford
Past and Present, Middlesex, England, Maryle-
bone, North of England, Liverpool, Derbyshire,
English Eleven at Stoke, and England. Drawn
matches have been played with Gentlemen, Cam-
bridge, Yorkshire, Cambridge Past and Present,
and Yorkshire. The Australians have been
beaten by Lancashire, the Players, Nottingham-
shire, Leicestershire, and Sussex.
* *
The V.R.C.’s statement of accounts to
30th June, goes to show that the club was never
more flourishing.
* * *
Sammy Jones’ illness was small-pox, pot
rheumatic fever.
» * *
The “ scum of the course,” according to
all accounts, are getting things their own way at
English race-meetings. The “ boys ” have now a
system of snatching grand-stand tickets from un-
wary purchasers at the pay-box, Once inside the
desired haven thyy have only to choose their mark
and go through him, and if the victim shows fight
he is knocked down, denounced as a welcher, and
dropped over the railings in a bruised and broken
condition. Meantime, the police stand by—or
stand in.
Neither Burke nor Slavin is anxious to
meet Costello. “ The Buffalo,” perhaps, means
fighing, which doesn’t seem to suit the gate-money
champions.
« * *
Sydney University footballers are carrying
all before them; they beat Kosedales on Saturday,
in the Cup match, by 15 to nil. Arfoma defeated
Newtown by 11 to n il.
* * *
The Victorians beat the New South Wales
footballers by two goals to one, after a good game.
* *r »
Bookmaker Sutton has, it is said, been
hit hard in England, and has been unable to
settle. Many efforts had been made to induce
the wealthy young lady to whom he was engaged
to be married to throw him over, but she declined,
and is probably his wife by now.
Hanlan means to settle down in Australia
with his wife and children. As he can’t take
away the championship, he intends to sit down
alongside it.
* * *
A. Church won the Carrington Midwinter
Handicap, which, in consequence of weather, had
to be postponed from Saturday to Monday night,
with Cray second, Cassimer third, and Gorman
fourth. The winner had good luck.
* * *
It is feared that Cranbrook, our great, big
horse, has gone wrong in the legs, and may never
again run in public.
* * •
Most people have an idea that the Sydney
Hunt Club are a-pack of duffers, who chop down
fences and forget to build them up again while
engaged in the fascinating pursuit of hunting
an aniseed bag about the suburbs. As a matter of
fact, hunting, about the County of Cumberland, is
a game which has too much danger in it to be
pleasant, and the men who follow the Hunt Club
hounds fairly and honestly, as a great manv do,
would be able to hold their own with any pack in
the world. The fences about Sydney are exceed-
ingly stiff—mostly three-railers built of wood a?
hard and as tough as steel. Then, again sub-
division is so minute that a run is a constant suc-
cession of lanes, with little chance, on the average,
for a fair take-off, and the country is nearly all
hilly, giving riders the option of either charging
down on a fence without any possibilry of escap-
ing a fall if the horse blunder, or scrambling up
to a jump which seems to stand perp*ndicularly
over the rider’s head. The English hunting men
talk about “five-barred ga'es, by dove, ’ but a
sheep-hurdle is a five-barred gate if jou like to
look at it in that ight, and the average jump met
in a run “at hmne” is child’s play compared
to the five-foot stringy-bark fences that
the average colonial erects round his suu,
division. The end of a run with the Sydney
hounds is generally that the master takes some-
body home in a cab, while the enthusiastic sur-
vivors of the run brush the sand off one another
and attend to the places where bits of skin are
knocked off themselves and their horses. Usually
there is a concourse of small boys holding some
trembling, panting, riderless horse while the
owner is dimly visible outlined against the sky on
some distant hill as he crawls down to the ren-
dezvous with one leg disabled and his hat stove
in. If any one thinks this is overdrawn, let him
go out with the hounds—he will need a good horse
and a stout heart. Many of the horses at these
meets are Randwick steeplechasers who have
been put to the hunting business on proving too
slow to win races, and we know that Randwick
jumps compare very favourably with the steeple-
chase jumps in the old country.
# * *
One of our leading amateur horsemen was
setting out to a meeting some time back, and, as
he intended to ride several races, he took with
him in a neat little leather bag a lot of pieces of
lead of various size s, so that he could make him-
self up to the proper weight for any race without
loss of time. Some fellow “on the make” saw
him come on to the platform and perceived, by
the way he carried the bag, that it was heavy, and
as the idea of it being full of lead never for an in-
stant occurred to him, he jumped to the conclu-
sion that it must be full of money, and that the
amateur was a swell bookmaker going out to lay
cash wagers. Accordingly, when the owner’s
back was turned, he grabbed the bag, and having
found it quite as heavy as he expected, darted
away across a maze of railway-lines, and was lost
in the wilds of Surrey Hills. How he must have
cussed when he humped the bag home, and found
it full of pieces of lead stamped with the owner’s
name ! It would be almost enough to make him
take to earning an honest living.
* * *
A well-known Sydney undertaker has
generously offered a challenge-cup to be competed
for in a kick-to-a-finish match by two rival foot-
ball teams. We don’t wish to insinuate that tout-
ing for business is going on, but if we hear of any
surgeon offering a trophy for a rinking contest our
gravest suspicions will certainly be aroused.
• *
A Sydney sporting paper insinuates that
the authority which presides over the boxing
boom, now raging in Melbourne, claims a liberal
percentage of whatever money is in it. Perhaps
this is only trade-jealousy.
• * *
The entries for the Carington Midwinter
Handicap and the approaching Botany conclu-
sively prove that pedcstrianism is nowhere more
popular than in Sydney. At the opening of the
first-mentioned the committee showed themselves
anxious to earn the confidence of the public, for
they quickly came down on all cases of suspicious
running. The limit in these events has now been
shortened. This is good, for a man who is a dozen
yards worse than Samuels is unworthy of such a
prize. Another improvement would be to lessen
the increment of the handicap. In Sheffield, the
interval between the marks is nine inches; here,
it is half a yard, with the result that as many as
50 men are placed on the same mark, though
common sense shows that they cannot all be equal.
* *
A horse from a “clever” stable, which
bad been running as stiff as a masher s collar for
sometime, was at lensth “ sent for the sugar and
won hands-down. “Frst-rate gallop that-, re-
marked one of the clever division. Yes
snapped a bystander, “ the first straight gallop he
ever did.”
* * *
A sign of the times. One of the races at
last Rosshill (Sydney) meeting was named ‘ Ihe
Republican Handicap.”
• * *
Hanlan says he is going to “settle” in
Sydney. This ought to be good news for Kemp.
Speedy settlements make fasti friends.
Sundry Shows.
Theatric Royal.—" Drink ” p. IP
Her Majesty’s.—" Lights o’ London „
Criterion. —“Modern Wives” „
New Opera House.—" Bright Hope ”
Alhambra.— Minstrelsy
Academy op Music.— Federal Minstrels
On Saturday last Mr. Charles Warner
opened at Sydney Royal in Charles Reade’s adap-
tation of Zola’s “L’Assommoir,” which is Eng-
lished under the vulgar name of “Drink,”
although the moral of the piece is rather directed
against brandy than alcoholic beverages generally.
In the acting version prepared by Charles Reade,
Zola’s novel is mercilessly “ improved ” to suit the
exigencies of the British stage, until very little of
Zola remains, and the moral is spread all over its
surface much after the fashion of the housewife
who conceals the honest plainness of bread-and-
butter with a heavy layer of turnip jam. The
action turns on the easy good nature of a Parisian
workman, Coupeau, a plumber (Mr. Charles War-
ner) who becomes the object of contention between
the forces of good and evil in the persons of Gouget,
a total abstinence smith (Mr. Herbert Flemming),
and Coupeau’s wife, Gervaise (Miss Isabel Morris)
on the one hand, and a scoundrel named Lantier
(Mr. Alb°rt Marsh), Virginie, a dressmaker (Miss
Jenny Watt-Tanner), and a bevy of boozers on
the other ; and, of course, the bad triumphs and
Coupeau is lost. Gouget is a painful creature-
full of wise saws and modern instances —who
rushes about the streets of Paris, endeavouring to
induce more or less tippling people of his acquaint
ance to sign a pledge-book. He seems to
have spent the first fifteen years of his
life in learning by rote a number of copy-
book head-lines, and during the remainder of
his terrestrial term he means to inflict them upon
unwary citizens. His aggressive moralising has a
bad effect upon poor Coupeau, who, when he has
taken Lis single glass, imagines himself eternally
lost and thinks he ought to go on to the end of the
road to perdition. To the audience it appears
better to die in delirium tremens with Coupeau
than to live in bourgeois affluence and moral crass-
ness with Gouget. Mr. Charles Warner, howr-
ever, had a magnificent opportunity to display his
art, and he seized it with a firm grip and carried
everybjdy with him. He dies in the sixth act,
and the n venth and last, devoted to the ends of
poetic and dramatic justice, drajs painfully
along to a slow finish. Interest stops with
the withdrawal of Coupeau froth the
stage. In the first, second, and third acts
he is subdued and unobtrusive, the piece keep-
ing its interest in the fortunes of Gervaise
and the scoundrelism of Lantier, though con-
siderably damped by the preachy proclivities of
the t emperance man, Gouget. In the fourth act,
after a very realistic family scene, Coupeau falls
from the scaffold and is taken away on a stretcher-.
Physically weakened, with his brain injured by
the fall, he appears in the fifth act the victim of
the drink-tempter, and passes through the variotis
stages of gradual drunkenness in the grog-
shop of Pere Colombo His reluctant entrance
coaxed in on business—the boisterous good nature
with which he “shouts” for his friends, after the
first glass coerced down his throat by the cunning
taunts of the seasoned boozers that he fears his
wife’s reproaches—the wager of the eight glasses
of brandy, the sudden change of manner as the
alcohol mixes with his blood and boils in his veins,
the sullenness with which he treats his wife’s
reproaches, the slap on the face he gives her ; his
quick contrition inflected by drunken s ntiment,
his just as sudden relapse into the injured husband
when that contrition has no effeeb in staying the
flow of his wife’s tears ; his quarrelsome courage
and assertive immunity from the woes of the hen-
pecked ; and finally, his absolute and incapable
drunkenness, are splendidly worked out with a
painstaking attention to every little shade and
half-tint that proclaims Mr. Warner one of the
first of actors in this very trying part. But it is
in the sixth act that he rises to the apex of his art.
Returned from the hospital, w r eak, pale, tottering
and emaciated, to the miserable garret where
ledge Gervaise and her child, he is left
alone whilsb his wife goes out to buy food.
The doctors have warned him ; a drop of
brandy means death. Claret is the only
alcoholic stimulant that he may touch. Virginie,
his wife’s enemy, sends an ostensible bottle of this
innocuous wine to Coupeau’s wretched hovel, but
the bottle contains brandy Tortured by thirst,
mad with the craving for drink, the pallid wreck
of the once strong Coupeau discovers the cognac.
He tears the paper from the bottle, tottering
across the room in the last stage of drunken
senility. He tastes and puts the bottle down with
anguish and madness. He seizes the paper and
with trembling nervous fingers tears it to pieces.
At last he succumbs and empties the bottle, feels
his strength renewed, fights legions of imaginary
fiends, and in a moment of frenzied delirium up-
lifts a chair to dash out the brains of his wife and
the little Nana, who at the moment entfr the
room. Recollection of their fac s paralyses
his arm ; he recoils, tears his chest, shouts
and yells like a maniac, collapsts, and
rolls on the stage--dead. This is the ter-
mination of the drama. There is a saccted-
ing act, in which Virginie and Lantier are
punished and Gouget comes to the rescue of Ger
vaise, perishing from cold and hunger in the snow-
swept streets of Paris, but the interest of the
audience ceases with the death of Coupeau. The
play is splendidly mounted, but the effect on the
mind is of too sombre and distressing a character
to be alleviated by the paint-brush of the scenic
artist, though a number of tinted women, with
carmine cheeks and black haloes round their
eyes, anointed with triple coatings of white
paint, picked out artistically with red
and blue at proper intervals, cooed and
fluttered at all this representation of human
misery, and adjusted their bangs and smoothed
their laps with the most charming indifference
to the death-agony of a man in delirium tremens
before their eyes. It is idle to give real tragedy
to some people.
# # # *
“ Modern Wives,” the latest piece staged
at Sydney Criterion by Brough and Boucicault,
is a three-act drawmg-room farce by Ernest
Warren, who has adapted it from a French piece
by Malbin Valabreques, entitled “ La Bonheur
Conjugal,” though why anything so flimsy should
be adapted from anything in the world, in French
or in any other language, is and must remain to
the crack of doom an impenetrable mystery.
The comedy is constructed after the fashion of
“Confusion,” “Strategy,” “Snowball.'’ ’'Diplo-
macy,” “Three Hats,” “ Turned Up,” &c , and
although it contains many funny, albeit impos-
sible, situations, it is not nearly so good as the
majority of these pieces. Like the humour
of Mark Twain, all the hilarity arises_ from
the circumstances, for " Modern Wives ” con-
tains no intrinsic humour. Two girls marry
men eminently calculated to make good hus-
bands, but their early education has spoilt


them for the rdle of wife. Their parents, humble,
good-natured, uneducated people, have made a
fortune and retired from the cold shades of trade,
devoting their leisure and their wealth to making
fashionable women of their three daughters. Two
of these interesting but misguided creatures marry
men wioh plausible claims 1i be considered gentle-
men, and the third is half-way to the hymeneal
altar when the piece begins. Both wives, dissatis-
fied with domestic life, and suddenly discovering
that a woman’s husband requires something
more of her than an assiduous attendance
at dances and skating-rinks, return to their
father’s home, and the remaining acts are
occupied in reconciling them to their hus-
bands and their duties. The infatuation of
the returned wives leads them to seek divorce, and
the unmarried sister, taking timely warning, refuses
to desert the ranks of free and happy spinsterhood.
The heart-broken and hapless lover plots with one
of the husbands to restore happiness to at least
one home, and they succeed by writing anonymous
letters which awaken everybody’s jealousy. Hus-
band in the wake of faithless wife, wife in the
wake of faithless husband, father to save the
honour of his daughter’s husband, mother to save
her daughter’s honour, and a servant-girl who
flits about from every faithless and pursuing
individual, annexing golden tips on condition that
she tells something or does not tell something, all
meeb in the last act, the mystery is explained,
everybody is reconciled, and universal happiness
wafts its pinion over the drop-scene.
• *
As the h-less hatter of much woe and
many daughters, Mr. Rober b Brough acts in a
much less obtrusive manner than is his wont, and
plays the part pf a retired London tradesman
very mu oh more to the life than is the custom of
that exaggerated individual when placed upon the
modern stage Miss Romer, as Margery Chubb,
the hatter's better half, has a character part for
which she has moderate* capability. Mr. Cecil
Ward makes a very presentable city man as Noel
Goldring ; Mr. Willie Warde has a quiet character
as a gentleman’s gentleman, and plays it in a
quiet, easy manner so successfully that you do not
recollect that he was included in the caste until
after leaving the theatre, and then he continues
to grow more important like a photo-
graph exposed to the light. The burlesque
tragedy of fhe piece is confided to Mr. A. K.
Lawrence as Valentine Honey sett, and to Miss
Pattie Browne as his wife ; and they both overdo
it. Miss Pattie Browne dresses with taste and
act 3 with spirit. She is very chic and very pretty,
bub her acting in the character of Mrs. Honeysett
is as hard and unsympathetic as it is possible for
the acting of Miss Pattie Browne to be. Mr.
Lawrence is too obviously burlesque. Nothing is
left to the audience. He barn storms like the
veriest Grapples, and hisses murder through set
teeth, and strikes spasmodic attitudes with too
intelligent a farcicalm ss. He .conveys ,to the
audience his thorough knowledge that the whole
thing is humbug—this kills the fun. Mrs. Robert
Brough as G race Goldring, the deserted oirdest rtmg
wife of Noel G oldring (Mr. Cecil Ward), is too cold,
just as Miss Pattie Brown is too unsympathetically
warm. Mrs. Brough walks through the part m a
listless, bored sorb of manner, from which she does
not seem to awaken till the third act Mesdames
Major and Hatcourb have little to do, but do it
brightly and intelligently, whilst the little boy
who plays th« page is the best actor of his size we
have seen in Sydney for years. In the part of
Caleb Chubb, we consider Mr. Robert Brough has
never acted si well since he played Jonathan
Oscar Wilde in “Little .Tack Sheppard"; and,
taking everything into consideration, the Criterion
artists are probably the strongest comedy com-
pany at pr esent in Australia. We hope to see it
grow even stronger as the months roll on.
At the Sydney Academy Uncocks and
Friedman’s specialty combination continues to
draw a good house and the amalgamation bids fair
to fill the treasury for some time to come. On
Saturday last a new programme was gone through
and Messrs. Lawler, Porter and Farley wi re reci-
pients of double encores, whilst the coiners wero
well held up by Messrs. Keenan, Sullivan, Gilmore
and Lyndon. The Borani Brothers continue their
astounding feats, in some instances put:irg the
contortionist Donaldsons in the shade, and the
marvellous change sketch of MissJblthtl Silvena
and Mr. S illivun is still a big; feature in the bill.
The entertainment concludes for the current week
with an amusing farce called “ 1 he Tobacconists
Daughter,” and the fun gently subsides in time to
catch the tram.
#* # *
Miss Ada Ward is advertising her last
week at Sydney Opera House. On Siturday
.‘’Bright Hope” was pub on the boards, billed as
the “latest London success” and the production
of Mr. George' Comer. On Friday, August 3rd,
Mias Ward takes her benefit.
=# * * *
The Sydney Alhambra management con-
trive to provide a capital entertainment by the
employment of a particularly strong company,
amongst whom are the genuine comedians Hanson
and Field, and Messrs. Santley, Barrington, Hol-
land, Craydon, Harrison, Duriah, Delowery, and
Harry Hastings. The lady performers are
Mes<lames Edith Wilson, Florence Schuler and
Marie Mackay, and the latest novelty a funny
sketch called “ Lost in the Bush.” The Alhambra
has a big pu'l over other places of amusemenb in
Sydney on two accounts-it is near the railway
station, and being so far from the terminus it
gives its patrons time to catch the tram, hence a
long bill is nob a cold and sickening dread from
half-past 10 till 11 o’clock.
## # #
r At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, ‘‘Handsome
George ” Henry Y. continues to fall into the tank
nightly at 10 minutes past 10, and to thrash ten
“beats” of per leece half-an-hour afterwards,
besides consuming more limelight than would
suffice to illuminate the pages of the past and
arrogating more “ frill” than would support a
tottering universe.
ft -if ft ft
Sydney Gaiety is shrouded in gloom.
Tessero’s French Comedy Company have incon-
tinently cleared out, as the average Australian
finds the drama written in ordinary Bullock-
driverese a deal more enthralling than tjhe master-
pieces of a foreign tongue. Sardou stands a very
poor show in competition with Augustus Drury-
Lane.
## # #
, Brough and Boucieault have done all they
know new play at Melbourne Bijou, and
if “ Comrades ” fail to run up to expectations it
will be on account of circumstances over which the
management has no control. “Comrades _ is a
dull, clever, irrational play, devoid of anything in
the shape of a designing villain, and only relieved
from everlasting sadness by the irrelevant death
of a stuffed monstrosity described as a dog. The
plot turns upon the moral cowardice of a military
baronet, who once married and buried a dark-
eyed stranger without mentioning the circum-
stance to anybody but a faithful soldier-servant.
The defunct lady left a boy, to be brought up
by bottle, while her gallant husband married
again, and became possessed of another son in the
usual way. Under a mistaken impression that he
is somebody else the first son mashes an earl’s
daughter who was intended for the other son, after
which the first son is given to understand that he
is illegitimate and no more worthy to marry an
earl’s daughter. Then he finds out that he ought
to be his step-brother just as both of them go
away to slaughter savages in a distant land.
Finally their noble father explains everything
when he is in a delirious state, and the badly-
used son hugs the high-bred damsel to the satis-
faction of all concerned. In the working out
of this weak story there are opportunities for
powerful acting by a company of exceptional
strength. Mr. Dion Boucicault as the old servant
is more than good. Messrs. Titheradge and St.
Maur are ditto, and young Mr. Harold Chichester
goes one better than he has gone hitherto. Mr.
Charley Brown is well in it, while a very minor
part falls to the lot of a first-class performer in G.
W. Anson. Lady talent is also liberally laid on.
Miss Agnes Thomas makes the most of her
chances as the baronet’s wife (the one who isn’t
dead), and Miss Lilian Gillmore is just the
sweetest Earl’s daughter that ever bloomed on
earth. She beggars description, and knocks
criticism dumb. A better all-round company for
“ Comrades ” couldn’t be raised in Australia.
## # #
Another of Miss Carrie Swain’s tragedies,
“Jack and I,” received a hoarse, expansive wel-
come at Melbourne Royal last Saturday night.
It is evident that “ Jack and I ” wasn’t written
for Carrie, and the chances are that it was written
for a wager, or slung together in part payment of
/ lJi5 £C
1 VtqElf Hi QiVji
"hn vT.fqpX- .
an old grudge againsfc mankind. The whole five
acts contain about as much literary merit as a
water-melon, but when things become irksome,
Mis 3 Carrie interpolates a ballad and the show
makes a f<esh start. A thread of misery runs
through most of it in the shape of an in-
teresting j oung creature who is persecuted by
several men and appears to have been married
by some of them while the remainder were
dead and hadn’t come to life again yet, but her
character is cleared, at the very last moment, by
a man who admits that he did something, and
immediately expires. There is also a fair quantity
of blood spattered about during the evening, and
taken altogether, “Jack and I ” should hum with
no uncertain sound. The ever-winsome Miss
Carrie delights the ravished eye even more than
usual, and the interesting heroine is held up by
Miss Virginia Vivienne, a young lady of promise.
Some good scenery assists towards a complete
etcetera.
#* * *
“ Miss Esmeralda” goes 40 minutes faster
than it did at Melbourne Princess’s, and the house
shows but a few bare spots at the back of the
dress-circle on off occasions. L’or Tuesday night
circle-seats are booked at 20s. and stalls fetched
half-a-guinea, owing to the presence of six
Governors attended by six suites. The Trium-
virate have made their Excellencies. a liberal offer,
and they will possibly appear again during the
week.
4c #c ♦ #
“ Faust ” gave a pleasing fillip to business
at the Opera House, where the subscription season
terminates on Friday. It has not been too suc-
cessful, and there is a widespread.notion that Miss
Amy Sherwin —whose voice has improved rather
than otherwise under the long strain —is entitled
to a large benefit. The Alexandra dropped into
ghastly melodrama on Saturday, and the com-
pany became rather more trying than before. St.
George’s Hall thrives under the Coghill-Rickards
administration, and the Victoria is gladdened
once again by the presence of Frank Clark, who
was lately on the very sick-list.
## # #
Mr. Mapleson, of Italian opera fame,
states that he has paid Madame Patti £300,000 in
the course of his career. Mapleson is bankrupt at
present. Patti is exceedingly solvent, however.
*# * #
Since Miss Lilian Gilmore, the new actress,
appeared at Melbourne Bijou carrying an alpen-
stock parasol, several similar weapons for the
destruction of male humanity have been noticed
on the local Block. They give a Joan of Arc
aspect to the girls who manage them nicely.
*# * *
In early Bendigo, when Billy Heffernan
was running the Lyceum, Shakespeare’s “ Tem-
pest ” was produced, and as the diggers did not
relish “ the legitimate,” business was bad. Old
Billy, indignant, went straight to the stage
manager and inquired what piece was this he was
producing, to which the manager replied, “ Shake-
speare’s play of the ‘Tempest.’” “Well,” said
Billy, “ Shakespeare writes no more blanked plays
for me. Put up ‘Box and Cox,’ and let Thatcher
sing a song.” We have heard something very
like this before—and it wasn’t about Heffernan
either.
#X X
*7Y* TV* “TV*
Fred Vokes, the most finished and grace-
ful acrobatic dancer who ever flung his legs about,
ha 3 gone to an early grave. Ic is about 18 years
ago since the Vokes Family introduced their unique
entertainment at Drury Lane Theatre and carried
London by storm. The lessee, Mr. Chatterton,
originally engaged them for a long term at a low
figure, but after the fulfilment of their bond they
stayed on at salaries increased tenfold, and were
the whole soul of the famous Drury bane panto-
mimes. A large percentage of Australia’s adult
population must remember the Vokes Family, and
cherish especially pleasant recollections of the
elastic Fred. ' The Family danced away then-
constitutions, apparently, for the two eldest girls
(.Jessie and Victoria) both died on the sunny side
of 40. Fred has gone at 43. He married a
daughter of “ Pony ” Moore (the Moore and
Burgess Minstrels man), and was consequently
brother-in-law to Charlie Mitchell, the late anta-
gonist of Slugger Sullivan.
*# * *
Mr. Thomas Hanson-, who, 12 months
back, conducted fugitive enterprises at the
Alexandra and Bijou Theatres, Melbourne, has
just filed his shovel. He is probably an estimable
old gentleman in private life, but as a theatrical
manager he flew in the face, of Providence by
striking The Bulletin off his free-list. The
local representative of this journal was reluctantly
compelled to chuck an incantation at Mr. Han-
son’s show, and in a week it was no more. Then
Messrs. Brough and Boucicault took possession of
the Bijou, and The Bulletin curse was returned
to the editor’s room, where it now lies rumbling
in a big strong box. Poor Hanson ! When a
young professional lady applied for an engage-
ment he told her that he wouldn’t have a vacancy
for some time, because so many of his relations
wanted to act.
## # *
An English paper publishes an interview
with Minnie Palmer, in which she is made to say
that, previous to her marriage with John Rogers,
she always suffered terribly at sea from sea-sick-
ness, but that since then she had voyaged to Aus-
tralia, California, and back to England without a
day’s illness at sea. Marriage has its benefits, it
appears, after all. It cures sea-sickness —but
some cures are worse than the diseases.
## * *
Mr. T. Y. Twinning ha 3 just returned
from navigating the only and veteran Maccabe
through the wilds of Queensland. After strilum
Charters Towers, the unique Frederic folded
his tent and stole back to N.S. Wales. Or: Satur-
day last ho opened in the Newcastle v ictori»
Theatre for six nights in “Begone Dull Care
«y>»
vr 'TV' TV* 'TV*
The Essie Jenyns-Holloway Co. opened at
Adelaide Royal to overflowing houses in “ Romeo
and Juliet,” in which latter character Miss
Jenyns has driven to distraction the dudes of the
holy city. Inman is considered to play Rome u
very nicely. The Merchant of Venice fol
lowed, with the divine William as Shy lock ; he
met with a great reception. “ Missing at Lloyds, '
at Garner’s Theatre, to be followed by Last
Lynne.”
~fa -fa
Miss von Finkelstein, who has been rak-
ing in the shekels at Melbourne, under the pious
direction of our much-travelled friend, the Rev.
R. S. Smythe, will appear in Sydney lor the
first time on Monday next at the Y.M U. A. 1 Jail.
Miss Yon F. talks'about-Jerusalem and thing.-i
and stands six-foot in her galoshes. We, having-
exhausted the vanities of this wretched world,
now live but for one thing—to see the Rev.
doing the block with his lecturess.
Mr. Sidney Dickinson made his bow bli-
the first time to a Sydney audience last Monday
with his splendidly-illustrated lecture, “The
Moors inSpain.” Mr. Dickinson has a good presence,
an eloquent delivery, with the slightest nuance of
the American accent which some of his enthusias
tic admirers describe as “ pretty,” and treated his
subject in a romantic and highly-coloured, not to
say florid and refreshing style. Mr. Dickinson,
who is a cultured literary man and a natural elo-
cutionist, was well-supported by Miss Marion
Miller, who lends a pleasant variety to the enter
tainment by looking eminently charming and
giving recitations. One Monday she recited
“The Chariot Race,” which was not calculated to
afford that scope to her manifest dramatic ability
that a more impassioned and personal piece of
declamation would have done.
That godly paper, the Melbourne D. T., says
that the dresses of the Gaiety Company, now
playing in Melbourne, are comparatively modest.
Where, we wonder, did our rev. contemporary
form its standard of comparison ?
** # *
Plain Bill Holloway and Co. are now in
Adelaide, a city which the Divine William has not
visited for some years. When he was then
last he hit a reporter in the eye for having
maliciously said that the gallery boys (according
to arrangement) called him (Bill) before the cur
tain in pieces in which he did not play.
*# * *
Judge Paul, of Queensland, has over-
ruled a melancholy, cold water Licensing Bench,
which objected to allow the sale of liquors at the
Brisbane Opera House and Theatre Royal, and
consequentlythefrequentersofthe.se places will
be permitted to irrigate along with the rest of Her
Gracious’s subjects. Judge Paul is evidently <>f
the same opinion as old Paul, and would recom-
mend each disciple to take a little wine for his
stomach’s sake.
#* * *
How is it that a certain actor who i t the
idol of the Australian fair sex, is so fond of appear-
ing on the stage in the character of a fat vagabond
who can’t support his wife ?
*# # *
The Elite Photo. Gallery, Collins-;
Melbourne, has published some very fine phn
of the London Gaiety Go. now at Melbourne
Princess’ Theatre. The pictures should n e-‘
a great sale in Sydney.
.V. Ab
W "TV* "TV* "Jv-
We are told that members of the “p r
fesh ” who wish to witness the performances of
London Gaiety Company have to write to the
management for a pass and enclose a stamped
envelope for reply. We are getting civilised by
degrees.
## * *
Grattan Riggs is to open the new 1 heat re
at Broken Hill.
*# * *
Jimmy M‘Mahon is taking Dumpier f r a
N.Q. tour.
*# * *
“ Poverty Point ” will soon be deserted,
A company is going North.
*# * #
It is cabled that Mr. Haddon Chamber;!,
the young Australian dramatist (who has acted an
London correspondent of The Bulletin) has
made so great a success of his new play, “ Captain
Swift,” which was recently produced with much
eclat at a matinee, that it is to be played regularly
at the Haymarket Theatre, London, henceforth.
The American rights of production have been
sold for a large sum.
* # 5* *
Boucicault, sen., is a cold-blooded, cowardly
old rascal; he tries, for the sake of establishing
the validity of his marriage with the girl-he wedded
in Australia, to deny that he ever married his
“good old wife,” Agnes Robertson, who fortunately
has been able to establish her case in the London
law-courts. Should he ever again visit this country
he ought to be hooted from the stage.
*# * *
Parkes threatens to legislate for the
N.S.W. theatres at an early date. The public
will have to watch Parkes herein, for it is certain
that he will not legislate in the direction of free
speech—especially as regards Sunday evenings.
The present regulations in that regard are only
worthy of Russia.
*# # *
“ Ada Ward ” transposed is “ Draw
Ada.”
## # #
The Crawford-Hunter vocalists had a good
house at Sydney Protestant Hall on Saturday
night. The Elite and Crystal Palace Rinks still
command the patronage of the fickle public, who
swerve from Francis William Shakesbaconspeare
and the divine Essie to a pair of roller-skates with
a multifarious celerity worthy the attention of the
“ Presto ” troupe. Coogee and Bondi Aquarium
had a dull day on Saturday, but a gleam of sun
shine always brings the fishes to the gladsome
fore again, but the aquarium pure and simple is
not built on sufficiently generous lines to enthrall
the Australian masses,


Wolfe’s Schnapps
IS NOW THE
MOST POPULAR LIQUOR
IN THE
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
Study your own interest by using Pemell’s Snow-white
Patent Roller Flour. It is made in the colony from the*
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low <
PEPPER
SOLT
“ Rear-Admiral Field stated that a very
able man and a man of great wealth in Victoria
had told him that any number of men in the Vic-
torian Legislative Assembly could be bribed.” —
(Argus Cablegram.)
“ That there should be an imbroglio in
Zululand need cause no surprise. . . . We
can only hope now that the disgraceful failures
of the past will not be repeated. Great Britain
has played the fool too long in South Africa, and
a continuation of the folly may end dangerously.”
Herald.
Boort (Vic.) is a township where nothing
generally happens more than once a year, and not
always even then. It is a slumberous spot most
of the time, and things move so slowly that they
have time to turn bad before they take place, and
its one geographical feature is that it is situated
within three months’ crawl of no place that any-
body ever went to in his life without being sorry
for it. There is seldom more than sixpence in the
town at one time, and the people look with an in-
different glass eye on the convulsions of the out-
ide world. They move gradually and breathe
heavily, and they live long because Death falls
asleep in Boort, and the spiders spin their cob-
webs among his bones, and the flies rink on his
skull, and when he wakes at last he finds that his
scythe has been borrowed to hold the church door
open with and his hour-glass cadged for the baby
to play with. The population is small, for the
people are too tired to be numerous, but among
them Old Man Jenks and his three daughters are
prominent, chiefly because the eldest of the young
ladies gave way last week to a burst of excitement
which shook Boort right down from the hat that
it sleeps in because it is too much trouble to take
it off to the boots that it hasn’t brushed since the
winter before last. This particular girl was aged
something over 30, and lame, freckled, and red-
headed, and her face was plainer than a bailiff.
Her temper was also as uneven as a ride down-
hill on a flat-footed camel, a fact which her small
brother knew to his cost, for the way she was
wont to whale him with a paling was one of the
saddest features in his history. But all the same
she had a lover —a young farmer who had proposed
to her under the influence of chloroform, and she
used to aim things at him in order to keep
him up to the mark, and shake him when his
affections began to grow cold. The wedding day
was fixed and the altar was prepared for the sacri-
fice, and a large, greasy mark on the wall testified
to the regularity with which he came to see her
and leaned his head against the corner of the room
and wished he was dead. But he didn’t die, and
the day arrived. The bridegroom rose early that
morning and poured beer into himself to stiffen
him for the horrors to come, and then he poured
more beer, and gradually a spirit of wild enter-
prise awoke within him. The bride, meanwhile,
got on her clothes and went to the church with a
select circle of friends and sat down amid muc* 1
elderly giggle to wait for his coming. Eleven
o’clock struck and he was due. A quarter past
wheezed out and he wasn’t there. Half-past, and
he continued to be scarce. Noon arrived, and he
hadn’t yet risen in the east, and there was no
sign of his rising. The bride had quite finished
pondering on the serious nature of the step she
was about to take, and was manifesting prelimi-
nary symptoms of hysteria, and the curate was
cackling in the vestry. At a quarter to one a
male relative was sent out to reconnoitre, and he
returned with tidings of dismay. The bride-
groom having filled himself up with beer and
valour, had ridden over on a cart-horse to the
bride’s residence and proposed to her youngest
sister, who was neither lame nor red-headed, and
they had been married half-an-hour previously at
the rival church with the damaged small brother
as best boy and a crowd of excited clodhoppers as
witnesses. Then arose a scream that rent the
heavens, and the deserted bride lost her balance
and hit out at every angle, also she rent her attire
and oscillated violently. She was conveyed home
on a dray and put to bed in a darkened room
where she still remains, and her days and nights
are now devoted to planning a fearful vengeance
on her sister and her sister’s husband and the
small boy who aided and abetted them in the
abyss of their depravity. But as yet she is too
feeble to go out and ride upon the storm, and the
judgment which is to rush down upon the three
conspirators is consequently postponed.
• * »
Normanton (Q.) owns a Chinese lady who
has abandoned the land where the fairest flowers
of poetry grow, and where Joss loveth the cheer-
ful giver, to follow the fortunes of her proprietor
in a barbarous country. She lives in strict retire-
ment in a room above the old man’s shop, that
obtuse pagan being under an impression that she
would instantly elope if she were let out ; and her
existence is a peaceful and lonely one except when
late in the evening the man with the Ah in front
A WAR ARTIST: MELTON PRIOR.
of his name shuts up the door of his emporium
and comes upstairs to the bosom of his family.
Then it is presumed they spend an hour or two in
exchanging endearments in the crushed tea chest
language of their fathers, but as visitors are rare
their habits are chiefly a matter of conjecture.
Occasionally, however, a favoured Australian is
admitted to the house, and then he finds the
hostess sitting in p sleepy majesty on a settee, with
jewels fastened all over her and a large pale smile
drifting across her features like a summer cloud in
front of a yellow horse. She seldom speaks, but
her owner regards her with a proud expression as
if the figure was about to move its jaw. One
recent visitor made an effort to rouse her up, and
he now reports that Chinese women are too reti-
cent. He began by an affable remark about the
weather, whereupon she slowly opened her mouth
and left it that way. Then he extended his hand
and she placed in it something like a piece of
tripe, and he squeezed it impressively. She seemed
surprised at this, for her mouth closed. There was
a pause of several minutes’ duration, at the end of
which her features gradually came apart again and
a feeble sound came forth like a distant parrot
offering an observation through a quantity of
feather beds. “ Blandee Velly good,” she remarked
in that far-away utterance, and faintly drew his
attention to the bottle. “Blandee velly ”
She fell asleep here, but the stranger squeezed her
hand again till she re-opened her eyes and fixed
them on him in a baby stare which looked like a
feeling of surprise arising in the next street. Then
she addressed an observation to her husband and
he rose to the occasion. “Me got other wife in
China,” he explained ; “ plenty other wife. You
likee this one me sell ’er. How muchee? You
buy, plenty squeezee hand.” But the sale didn’t
transpire, and the owner of the property often
sits down now and speculates in internal Chinese
as to the reason why the white man broke off the
negotiation and fled.
* * *
The grateful colony of N. S. Wales has, it
appears, conferred a pension on Thomas Reilly, on
the ground that Thomas was “late sergeant to the
Governor-General’s orderly,” and now the ques-
tion of what Thomas may be is overshadowed by
the larger problem—who on earth is the Governor-
General ? It is the first time we have heard about
a man of his size hanging out in Australia, and we
want to know where he has concealed himself. A
gentleman with such an awful blast of a name
should be as difficult to hide as a megatherium on
an open plain ; and unless his sudden appearance
is accounted for on the theory that the authorities
sent over the first half of h'm in advance to see if
the coast was clear, and, finding things tranquil,
were graciously pleased to forward the remainder
of the dignitary, and he has just joined himself
together, it will be necessary for someone to file
an affidavit to prove his identity. Anyhow,
Reilly was sergeant to somebody who was orderly
to the whole of him, and this circumstance has
culminated in his getting a small income for the
rest of his natural life, which proves once more
that it is better to be the fellow who chases the
dogs out of the front garden of a monarch than to
serve your country and have your leg shot off in
battle for twopence a-day, and then die in the
benevolent asylum.
* * *
A quiet-looking small man went through
the little settlement of Brewarrina, the other
day, and in a patient, listless, weary sort of way
he cleaned out the town, but the town was howling
to be cleaned out and he had to do it. He was
thin and eminently respectable-looking, and he
had his jaw tied up in a cloth as if he suffered
from toothache. He also carried a small parcel
done up in a rag. There was a show in progress,
and as he wandered through the giddy scene he
unconsciously dropped his load and left it in the
dust. It fell into the hands of a party of dread-
fully clever individuals who opened it and found
that the contents consisted of salt, and then they
laid their heads together and laughed a quantity
of horse-laughs, and said they would put up a
game on the small man with the bandaged jaw.
So they emptied out the salt and put
sand in its place, and then they yelled to
the stranger saying, with one voice : “Hi !
mister ! you’ve dropped something.” “ Thank
you, thank you,” he replied, in a subdued sort of
way, as he took back the package. “I’m much
obliged to you, I didn’t notice that I’d lost it.
It’s salt that I got for my toothache.” Here a
brilliant inspiration flashed across one of the men
with the horse-laugh, and he screamed out: “ I’ll
bet’arf-a-crown it wasn’t salt.” “No, really,”
expostulated the walking toothache ; “ I couldn’t
do that, you know ; I’d be betting on a certainty,
and that isn’t fair. I know it’s salt.” “ I’ll bet
a pound on it,” said the exuberant rowdy, and the
small man was persuaded to accept. Then
someone else bet a pound, and another individual
laid two pounds, and a big larrikin put up a fiver;
and meanwhile -a few sympathising strangers
tried to bellow to the little man that he was being
had, but somehow the cloth round his head seemed
to obstruct his hearing and he couldn’t make them
out though he could hear distinctly when another
man c >me up and wanted to lay another pound on
the event about the salt. Finally £2O were
put up altogether, and then the small man opened
the package in triumph. It was salt ! How the
sand had been hocussed away no one knew, but
the game had somehow gone wrong, and the man
who suffered so badly from his jaw took all the
stakes and went away with an unfathomable smile
on his features, and left his opponents struck all
of a heap.
* * *
A policeman fell out of a dray and damaged
himself in Adelaide the other day. When he has
been in the force a little longer he’ll be able to
take a tip. with better grace. Practice makes
perfect,
* * *
Mr. Justice Wrenfordsley thought that
the fact of Mrs. Rappiport doing the “Block”
with another lady’s chain round her neck went to
show that she was not responsible for having pre-
viously stolen it. Criminals (especially ladies
moving in sassiety) generally meltdown jewellery
explained the judge:—
In a voice broken with emotion, the con-
valescent Bent, M.L.A., told his brother senators
of Victoria that “not only was his Excellency
good enough to inquire regarding my health, but
he did me the honour of sending me a letter of
condolence written by himself.” —
RIDICULOUS!
Where is the viper, vile and base,
Who breathed this slander black ?
No senator out here would place
His palm behind his back ;
It may be done across the seas
Among some savage tribe—
But ne’er a one of our M.P.s
Would talk about a bribe.
A trifle brutal in debate
Perchance they may have been,
On which account we sometimes slate
’Em in The Bullyteen ;
But even as we sit and pen
A healthful diatribe
We murmur : “ Well, they’re honest men
Who never take a bribe.”
Of sundry speakers it is found '
That when they rise to speak,
A whisky-perfume hangs around
The Chamber for a week;
But though of little cups which cheer
Too freely they imbibe,
At least they hold their honour dear—
They never took a bribe.
That “ able man ” has gammoned Field,
Beneath each member’s vest
One shining virtue lies concealed
And stands temptation’s test.
We laugh the Admiral to scorn,
We trample on his gibe—
The M.L.A. must yet be born
Who’d stoop to take a bribe.
TO GREAT BRITONS.
0 ! ye who have souls to lose
And in a Saviour trust,
The way you fool with Zulus
Has filled us with disgust.
They call us to deliv-er
Their land from error’s chain ;
So, shoot ’em through the liver
And send a list of slain.
The Herald mourns your failure,
Your failure in the past,
And warns you from Australia
To mend your ways at last ;
That jernel’s vengeance breathin,’
Then, Britons, draw the sword,
And give those blighted heathin’,
A chance to find the Lord.
This poem was dashed off in blood.
CALLED BY THE LORD.
Hail, most rev'rend Bishop Barry !
Wherefore tarry, wherefore tarry
At the wine-cup and the flesh-pot ?
Here are heathen ill-behaved.
You have seen our imperfections,
Know our “tippling” predilections,
Yet you leave us for a fresh lot,
And you leave us still unsaved. ... J
Hearken, pious Bishop Barry !
Here we marry, quickly marry,
Quickly drain the cup of pleasure,
Quickly hanker for divorce ;
Some are bied to drunken brawlers,
Or to loafing, useless crawler?,.
And filling up of woe our measure
We are left to take our course.
Doubtless, prudent Bishop Barry,
Bible precepts oft miscarry :
Are you certain that you follow
Straight the lowly Nazarene ?
He who healed the poor’s diseases,
Didn’t grab at dioceses ;
And we think your soul is hollow,
And your hands are scarcely clean,
Don’t misjudge us, Bishop Barry,
Nor consign us to “ Old Harry ”
(Dweller thou wiohin a palace,
Driven stately through your town,
Dainty diner, lordly drinker,
Robed in purple) if a thinker
Asks without a thought of malice
Where's the briar in your crown ?
A lady stole a watch and chain,
And gratified her vanity
By wearing them—’tis very plain
She suffers from insanity,
Yet, if she’d pitched the things away
(As might have been her whim) in all
The town who’d have the heart to say
Such common-sense was criminal ?
So, ladies, if the “ peelers” cotch
You wearing, while you promenade,
Another angel’s chain and watch
We’ll overlook the escapade ;
To charge you with a crime—O ! well,
There’s nothing could be crueller :
You must be mad unless you sell
Those trinkets to a jeweller.
We’ve heard about the earl who loots
Each silver fork and spoon he sees,
And hides ’em in his lady’s boots,
How pointless seem his lunacies !
Although the acts of Mrs. R.
Be no more reprehensible,
We’re very glad to find they are
A precious sight more sensible.
O ! Mr. Bent, you lucky gent
To get Sir Henry’s letter;
In honour of the great event
No wonder you grew better ;
You found his noble hand had penned
Each word in its entirety,
And straightway you began to mend
And talk about “ sercirety.”
O ! Tommy Bent, O ! Tommy Bent,
We’re very glad indeed he tent
That letter, since the compliment
Had potent power to save;
For had he not been so polite,
And asked the hade-de-kong to write,
The friends now smiling round you might
Be weeping at your grave.
Bush Songs.
Dear Bulletin,— lf you have not yet
“ cut out ” in re back blocks minstrelsy I beg to
drag up “ The Old Bark Hut ” as a genuine speci-
men of the old-time bush “ songs”
There is nothing very poetical about this song
and it is scarcely pathetic even when it is sung,
but it has two good points which may recommend
it to the not too critical bushman. It may be
fitted to almost any kind of tune, either lilt or
dirge, and it embodies the maximum of solid fact
with the minimum of poetic fancy. Yours,
Tommy the Rambler.
THE OLD BARK HUT
I’m poor old Bob, the swagman, and before you all
stand,
I have seen many ups and downs while travelling through
this land ;
Once I was well to do, my boys, but now I am stumped up,
And I’ve got to live on rations in an old bark hut.
Chorus. —ln an old bark hut, I’ve got to live on rations
in an old bark hut.
Ten pounds of meat, eight pounds of flour, some sugar
and some “tay,”
Is all they give to lusty men until the seventh day,
You must be mighty sparing or you’ll go with ah empty
“ gut ”~
Out of sight, out of mind, ill an old bark hut.
Chorus.— ln an old bark hut, &o<
The bucket I boil my beef in I wash my clothes in, too,
For they would think me mighty flash if I should ask for
two;
A billy and a quart-pot, with a broken-handled cup,
Is all that’s on the table in the old bark hut.
Chorus. —A billy and a quart-pot, &c.
My table is not made of deal like many you have seen,
But if ’twas only half as good I’d think it all serene,
It was made from a single sheet of bark, God knows when
it was out,
It was blown from the roof of the old bark hut.
Chorus. —In the old bark hut, St 2.
The table's the only furniture there is about the place
Except the stool I'm seated on and that’s an old gin-case,
It serves me for a safe as well, but I have to keep it shut
Or the flies will make it canter round the old bark hut.
Chorus.— ln the old bark hut, &c.
At night, before a roaring fire, to sleep I lay me down,
And then I'm just as happy as a king who wears a crown,
But sometimes when I’m dozing off the fleas they wake
me up,
And I curse and hunt the “ varmin ” in the old bark hut 1
Chorus.—l curse and hunt the “varmin,” &c.
Those fleas are mighty troublesome, they are so big and
fat,
That when I make a grab at one he jumps just like a cat.
Last night they stole my pack of cards, got fighting for
the “ cut,”
And I wished the devil had them and the old bark hut.
Chorus.— And I wished the devil, &c.


Personal Items.
liadatone wears a No. 7f hat.
r alt. Whitman is said to be dying,
ilke is about to visit Australia again,
lie father of General Boulanger was a
py-lender.
he Duka of Marlborough’s American
3 has £30,000 a year.
he Queen wears black because she is fat.
; is why the clergy don’t wear white,
om Bent, leader of the Victorian Opposi-
te, like David Gaunson, a Sydney native,
isliop Barry, it is said, became disgusted
t Sydney owing to the Reredos controversy,
he Duke of Edinburgh has a perfect pas-
for quack medicines, with which he “fills
self right up.” TI7 .
. former editor of the Molong (N.S.W.)
kbss is a member of the Salvation Army, and
ectly beats a big drum.
'hree Victorian Police Magistrates,
isrs. Thompson, Wyatt, and Orme, retire this
p on account of old age.
'hree millions sterling was recently offered
refused for the famous Werribee Estate (Vic.)
property of Mr. A. Chirnside.
. F. Hogan’s work, “ The Irish in Aus-
ia ” has reached a third edition. Mr. Hogan
)r W as, a member of the staff of Melbourne
Sedad ! Martin Loughlm, the well-known
ing man, has given £lOO towards the fund for a
;ue to the Irish poet, Tom Moore, to be erected
3allarat.
Dhe baby King of Spain suffers from
Lepsy, which is hereditary in his Ma’s family,
ist regal rulers are now perfect Rex before they
ie to be crowned.
‘Sir Archibald Michie, Q.C., is father of
i Victorian Bar, having been admitted to
Ictioe ove, 50 ye.i. ago.” 8 What! The Father
Lawyers only 50 years old!
Sir John Robertson has been presented
3 h his own bust, sculpt by Signor Simonetti.
~o will commission Simonetti to execute the
st of the just-retired Garrett ?
The London weeklies are reprinting from
Melbourne paper a lot of things which must be
bremety pleasant to Mr. Phil. Robinson and a
-tain amiable fellow-speculator of his.
Zola is having a hot time of it in (fermany.
1 the copies of the German translation of La
:rre” have been seized and destroyed, and the
rther sale of the work is strictly forbidden.
It is cabled that “ a lady of Sydney offers
assist in the emigration of 1000 Skye crofters to
e colonies.” We are told that the lady mques-
m is Mrs. W. C. Browne, of Brisbane Water.
Prince Victor, whom the Bonapartist party
oka'upon as its chief, is the common type of a
irv vulgar French hobbledehoy, and is remark-
>le for nothing save his extraordinary stupidity.
John Dunmore Lang once owned the
ilendid property now known as Pettys Hotel,
e parted with it in order to promote his gigantic
heme of peopling N.S.W. with sturdy bcotch-
en.
When the Emperor of Brazil lay ill at
tilan he wired for two things- viz., the illustrious
aysician Charcot (who is a pronounced Agnostic)
]d the Papal benediction! Both arrived to-
ether. .
Under the census of France, taken m
lay, 1880, there were reported in. that re Pubhc
90 persons who were living at the age of 1
earsTr more, and 15,153 who were more than.Ao
ears old.
John Badcock, excellently well-known m
tanking and commercial circles in Melbourne m
he golden times, who has been manager of
he Bank of N.S W. m London for many years,
tas retired on a pension.
Yet another N.S.W. Major! Mr. Pem-
troke Lathrop Murray, once of the Sydney Press
L as been promoted to the rank of brevet-major in
he N.S;W. Permanent Artillery, in which he has
>een an officer since 1874.
Mr. C. S. Loch, the secretary of the
lharity Organisation Society of London, is a first
Sn of the Victorian Governor’s Sir Henry
joch’s father was for many years factor, or agent,
30 the Duke of Sutherland.
Mad King Otto, of Bavaria, is growing
worse. He now wanders aimlessly about his big,
onely palace outside the city of Munich. He has
Abandoned his last distraction that of peeling
potatoes, and has no pleasure left.
Another calamity has burst upon the
human race. That veteran who spoke m broken
tones of Nelson and the Nile would appear to
have died at out last, but the business is now to be
carried on by “the last survivor of those who
knew Lord Nelson in the flesh.
The oreateßt row ever heard in London
since the° great fire was on a certain memorable
Sunday morning about four years ago, when Joe
Thompson, of Melbourne, and Jack M Elhone, of
Sydney, went arm-in-arm down Petticoat-lane
and exchanged chaff with the Jews as they walked
along.
Lord Haldon—vulgarly known as Law-
rence Hesketh Palk —who is now.in Australia is
the second holder of the title ; his father, the first
Baron, was known in the Commons, where he
represented South Devon, as Sir Lawrence Palk,
: Bart. He is a distant connexion by marriage of
the late Archbishop Vaughan.
Dr. Morell Mackenzie, for attending Em-
i peror Frederick, got, up to October, £(>000 ; after
■ that time he was paid £lOOO for each journey and
- £75 a day. This isn’t regarded as much. Sir
Andrew Clark lately declined a fee of L >OOO from
a private person, and Dr. William Playfair not
’■long since got £lOOO for one weeks visit to
Monaco.
This story is told by Piccadilly. On the
'Emperor Frederick’s wedding-day, and as his
■ carriage passed through the crowd at Hyde Park
corner, an old woman put her head into the car-
riage and exclaimed, “Prince! you ve got a very
, nice little wife ; now mind you make her a good
■ husband !” “ I will, my good woman, I promise
> you I will,” was the Prince’s cheery reply.
■ C. E. Jones, M.L.A. (Victoria), is now
I'private secretary to Hon. Thos. Bent. Jones is
. over 60 years of age, and never knew what it was
to have a couple of hundred pounds of his own
1 until Bent took him in hand. The latter, think-
ing it a pity to see a man of so much ability hyi ng
•in poverty, put C. E. Jones into several land
syndicates, and C. E. is now in a fair way towards
becoming a rich man. Jones also acts as Bents
lieutenant in the House.
Queen Victoria, when visiting Glasgow
Exhibition, the other day, did the rounds in a
bath-chair. When she opened the great 1851
show she was refulgent in a pink satin low-necked
gown, a tiara of diamonds, and ostrich plumes
waving right and left of her round face ; and she
didn’t mind a bit when the French newspapers
said that she dressed her head like a spaniel.
An American lady writes from Marseilles
that before leaving Rome she had an audience with
the Pope, who, she writes, “as I knelt before
him, smoothed my hair and face, held my bands,
and talked to me in a low, sweet voice.” As she
arose to go he again smoothed her rosy cheek, and
gave her a beautiful silver medal to wear for his
sake. <{ He is a dear old man/’she adds, but
very feeble.”
A Royal illness is an expensive thing.
The King of Brazil’s stay at Milan lasted over a
month, and cost him (otherwise than in medical
fees) no less than 400,000 francs, or £lO,OOO Jor
the housing of himself and his attendants, he paid
the proprietor of the Hotel Milan francs
daily. The famous Dr. Charcot, of Paris, received
a fee of 400,000 francs, and two Italian doctors got
12,000 francs a day.
The prodigality with which the English
Universities are shovelling out their honorary
degrees on “ distinguished Australians” and others
has given rise to a good story. A certain
vidual, named Smith, obtained a diploma with
such ease that he applied for one for his groom.
This was also granted without the least hesitation
and, thus emboldened, the aforesaid individual
"THE OTHER ONE"
solicited one for his horse. Such a request waS,
however, too much for the authorities, who sent
back the reply that they coyild not grant a diploma
to a horse, although they had bestowed one upon
an ass of the name of Smith.
One of the oldest pensioners of the N.S. W.
Government is Daniel Geary, who, since April 1,
1851, has drawn annually £lB os. for his services
as a constable. Mrs. Margaret Woods has drawn
£62 10s. per annum since May, 18po, as widow ot
the Chief Constable of Maitland ; while Mrs.
Louisa Codrington has drawn the munificent sum
of Is. per day since June, ’5B, as a reward tor her
husband’s services as a constable.
In some autobiographical reminiscences of
the Australian Natives’ Association, Mr. Field
Barrett recalls the time when it was found im-
possible to obtain a quorum of five members, in
fact, there was really but one way of doing so and
that was by adding to the circulars of convention :
“ P.S.—I have just secured three bottles ot ttie
very best whisky that was ever uncorked. That
drew them faster than a lightning express.
Professor Morris, of Melbourne Univer-
sity, is President of a Charity Organisation
Society. Replying toarecentfierce attack on charity
organisations, he informed an interviewer, the
other day, that its author, the late xiicharcl
Jefferies, although a singularly beautiful writer,
“was so improvident that a collection had to be
made after his death to provide for those dear to
him.” So much for Professor Morris s charity
—and veracity. Jefferies was only a master of
English and a student of Nature, who died in
harness after a life-long struggle with poverty and
disease. Had he been a professor in a third-rate
university, with £l2OO a year and a free house, he
would probably have made provision for his
family The writer of this paragraph knew
Richard Jefferies well; he was a man whose per-
sonal wants and extravagances were few enough,
in all conscience.
General Sir Duncan Cameron of N.Z.
celebrity, who died at Blackheath, Eng-, the
other day, at the patriarchal age of 80, was
(remarks a London Paper) one of those fine,
stately old gentlemen—stately in carriage as m
manners—whom the army, but no other profes-
sion, produces. He was nearer 70 than (>0 years
of age when he married. He had been paying a
little attention to three or four young ladies, the
daughters of an officer whose rank was nothing
approaching his own —attentions which an old
gentleman might with perfect propriety pay to
ladies young enough to be his daughters. No one
who knew the parties misunderstood the situation;
but an ill-natured, gossipy young subaltern wrote
a paragraph in one of the few society papers
existing in those days, in which no names were
mentioned, but in which the parties where
sufficiently indicated to those 'm the know.
Sir Duncan Cameron was touched to the quicK,
not for himself, for, of course, it did not matter to
him, but for the young ladies, and he promptly
went off, told the parents what he thought, and
proposed for one of the young ladies there and
then. He was accepted, and the marriage took
place immediately. Two years after, the lady
died, and Sir Duncan survived her for nearly
thirteen years.
Mr. Benjamin Lee, P.M., of Bathurst—
“ Benny,” as the busbies affectionately term him
—is an old-time alleged politician and supporter
of Sir ’Eory, who, in 1874, appointed him to his
present position. Mr. Lee and Mr. Ilaniel
Mayne of the Bathurst Sentinel are warm—
very warm—friends, Mr. Mayne having baa to
answer legally for some very hot articles on Mr. Lee.
Some years ago the Bathurst B. M. was the victim of
a Theodore-Hookeish practical joke which at the
time caused much amusement in the City of the
Plains. A certain lengthy pressman, who then
edited a Western newspaper, was suspected as
being the author, Mr. Lee, in his official capacity,
having mulct the lengthy one in certain coins of
the realm for disorderly behaviour. While Mr.
Lee was engaged one morning in the arduous
duties of his office, his pretty villa on the Vale
Road was besieged by an army of baggage-wag-
gons. Men attended with loads of coal, wood,
hay, vegetables, meat, bread, beer, whisky,
drapery, furniture ; in fact nearly every
tradesman in Bathurst had orders from
Mr. Lee on that eventful morning. Every
furniture-van man in the city had an order to re-
move Mr. Lee’s furniture to another homestead.
Every cabman had intimation that Mr. Lee
wished to be conveyed to the railway-station.
Every undertaker had instructions to come out
and measure some one for a coffin. The y ale
Road was blocked, the police were called out to
clear away the obstructionists who were now
loudly demanding compensation for loss of time.
Mrs. Lee and her family were nearly driven
mad. Mr. Lee was sent for in hot haste, the
Court hurriedly adjourned, and all Bathurst, the
thing having got wind, turned out to witness the
fun, the only persons who did not see the fun
being Mr. Lee and the “ sold ” ones. The jokist
was never discovered, but if you ask Mr. Lee he
knowingly closes one eye, affixes his right fore-
finger to his nasal organ, and quietly hints that
he believes a certain gentleman who has since
made a name in our political history knew at
least a little about it.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Garrett has broken his pledges.
What has become of the Stanley Testi-
monial Fund ?
The famous Gillies’ smile is in fine condi-
tion just now.
J. P. Abbott will probably be the next
Premier of N.S.W.
You can’t throw any dust but gold-dust
into a legislator’s eye.
Sir Henry Parkes is writing a book :
“ Life in Blunderland.”
What has become of the pme designs for
Parkes’ Dead Meat House ?
What has become of the Parkes testi-
monial ? No lists published now.
Ib is said that H. H. Cooke has been
angling for the N.S W. portfolio of Lands.
The Post Office (working men’s) Savings
Bank deposits in Protectionist Victoria have
reached £1,000,000.
Boulanger, after being, twice defeated, is
again a candidate. He bids fair to develope into
a French William Gaunson.
The N.S.W. Treasurer denies cooking the
country’s accounts. For a certainty, however, he
poached the last day of ’B7.
It is plain that the N.S. W. Ministry think
themselves insecure. They have turned the V ellow
Pup out of his kennel again.
,l Chaffey Brothers,” says Highett, M.L.A.
(Vic.), “have converted a howling wilderness into
the brightest garden of Australia."
The gross earnings of the N.S.W. railways
last year were £2,208,294, of which all but
£750,534 was consumed in working expenses.
Twenty years ago the Kiama ghost made
Dibbs an Orangeman. Equally unsubstantial
causes have been making men Orangemen ever
since.
Parnell and his co-patriots will receive
scant justice from Salisbury’s Tory Commission.
A commission of judges can be packed just as well
as a jury.
Nearly all the N.S.W. colliery-owners are
now Protectionists. They have discovered that a
Protective policy means a greater demand for
their coal.
Victoria proposes to reduce the tea-duty
to Id. per lb. ; also to abolish the duties on coffee,
cocoa, and chocolate, and on clothing worn by
working men.
Minister Abigail, after calmly enduring
the slap in the face given him by Parkes, is pre-
pared to submit to the grossest indignities for the
sake of office.
Uncle Abigail’s eon has been appointed
over the heads of more deserving N.S.W. Civil
Service officials and has received a considerable
increase in his salary.
It is cabled that at a naval review of the
British fleet several mishaps occurred, and that
some 'of the ironclads “ proved unmanageable.’
These be our protectors !
Last week the G.O.M. of the JS.S.W.
Orange Lodge declared that when the proper
time came the yellow boys would make Sir Henry
Parkes suffer for his recent insult to Uncle Abigail.
Dan O’Connor, M.L.A., calls the N.S.W.
Divorce Extension Bill “a Bill bo promote poly-
gamy, to encourage the wreckers of homes, and to
provide for the degradation of the noble woman-
hood of the land.”
Mr. B. C. Molloy, M.P., who lately
visited Australia, has been telling the Pall Mall
that Australia is the working man’s paradise, but,
curiously enough, Victoria is the only place he
specially mentions.
A Walgett (N.S.W.) land-“ owner” re-
cently charged a drover £2 for leave to walk his
cattle across that part of the Barwon river which
flows through his run. Who says that the good
old days of Feudalism are gone ? ”
The Bulletin begs to suggest that there
is a' certain Ballarat politician who would be
eminently' fitted for the task of proceeding to
England and expostulating with Rear-Admiral
Field in re the latter’s charge of bribery.
In Victoria in 1866 the acreage under
vines was 10,310, and the yield 986,041 gallons.
New South Wales was a bad second, with 5840
acres, yielding 601,897. The total Australian
acreage was 22,906, and the yield 2,307,233 gallons.
Three houses near the Haymarket, Sydney,
are occupied by no less than 533 Chinese who beast
that they are lodged for an average of a
week. The beds are mere shelves, ranged round
the rooms in tiers, and fully 50 Chows are located
in some of the rooms.
On the facade of the N.S.W. Colonial
Secretary’s Office, Sydney, tier above tier are
placed the noble statues of Wisdom, Justice, and
Honesty. Why don’t they save two statues by
merely erecting an effigy of Parkes who typifies
all the attributes named ?
The cable reports that the British Tory
Government intend initiating an elaborate system
of pauper emigration to the colonies. Salisbury
seems to be unaware that the old sign, “ Rubbish
may be shot here,” was taken down some time ago
and used for lighting the fire with.
<i A sob from the Melbourne Age : “ It is
to be regretted that the Government has not seen
its way to follow the example of N.S.W. by
abolishing the postage on newspapers. How
liberal the Age is—to the Syme family ! These
newspaper proprietors want to own the earth.
“ Give us facts !” shouted Mr. Toohey in
the N.S.W. Assembly, the other night, when
Premier Parkes was vaguely darning the nature
of things in general. “ You’ll have to take such
facts as I choose to give you,” responded Parkes,
and it wasn’t till about an hour and a halt alter-
w'ards that he began to realise dimly how he had
given himself away.


THE BULLETIN, SATUR DAY, AUGUST 4, 1888.
1
\( Vifc..
A N.S.W. Ministerial Amusement.


Cat oyn^>
[?]he above is more or less allegorical.)


Claremont, Darjinghurst Road, Sydney.—A private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
lor the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both sexes. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
rmw'ng staff. For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
Itn .*
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
—that Pemell’s Snow-white Patent Roller, Flour is the
best in the market.
Everybody should use Pemell's latest, best Snow-whitk
Patent Row, re Plotjr, It is the greatest success of the
age.
W. H. PALING & Co.
(Limited).
ESTABLISHED 1853.
THE LEADING HOLTSE
FOE
Pianos, Organs, Music,
AND
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
Special attention is called to the following
Exceptionally First-class
and
RELIABLE INSTRUMENTS :
UEBEL and LEC HLEITER PIANOS
F. SCHAAF and CO. PIANOS
JFLIPS'FEURICH PIANOS
Our Wonderful VICTOR PIANO, the most
perfect moderate-priced Piano ever manu-
factured
Our BELLING PIANO, which cannot be ex-
celled at £3O.
ESTEY ORGANS. ESTEY ORGANS.
189,000 already Made and Sold.
Figures which speak for themselves! The Estev
Organ Company repeat that, while they have con-
siderably reduced their prices, in order that a
first-class instrument may be purchased at a low
cost, they determined more than ever to avoid
all competition with the many inferior (or so-called
“cheap ”) Organs now being offered, and to main-
tain their reputation for superiority of tone, work-
manship and durability.
INSTRUMENTS SENT TO ANY PART OF
THE COLONIES
on their
LIBERAL TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM.
W. H. PALI Ml ft GO-, Ltd,
3of> GEORGE STREET, two doors from P.O,
Society
The average public-house, Father Kavanagh
considers to be, on account of its horrible associa-
tions, little better than a finger-post to —Govern-
ment House ? No, Father K. doesn’t say Govern-
ment House. He says Hell, with a big H.
On dit that the “journeyman Judge”
made a big blunder in the Rappiport case.
Lawyers declare that he should have put it
to the jury to say, in the event of their find-
ing a verdict of acquittal, what was Mrs.
Rappiport’s state of mind at the time the offence
was committed. The Crown authorities in Vic-
toria seem to have relied upon such a course, as
they had an attendant from one of the asylums
in waiting.
* * *
Another of the “ moral aspects of Free-
trade ! ”
• • •
Melbourne National Art Gallery was
closed to the nation one day last week in order
that Governor Loch and a crowd of invitees might
enjoy the contemplation of three new pictures all
to their toney selves. One of the fresh arrivals is
Alma Tadema’s “Vintage Festival.” It is a
masterly dream of marble and fine women with
very few clothes on, and a good representative
specimen of Tadema’s particular line of art. His
pictures are all built one way.
* * *
The Melbourne Exhibition Commissioners,
it is satisfactory to mention, bought guinea seats
for their womenfolk at the opening ceremony.
The free list was not nearly as extensive as was
anticipated.
# # w
Speaker Davies, of Victoria, offered a 20-
guinea prize for the best essay on wool, and a
lady was the winner. Women (especially married
women) should be the best authorities on wool—
it so often passes through their hands.
* * *>
Since the Vicborian Government recom-
mended the immediate sale of Melbourne lunatic
asylums, thinking citizens are discussing the ad-
visability of pulling down Government House and
cutting up its spacious grounds into quarter-acre
blocks. Already the Governor kills a good deal
of his time at Mount Macedon —a healthv locality
—where the Governor could preserve the Victorian
Constitution and strengthen his own, at one and
the same time. Positively there is no reason why
vice-royalty should wax and grow fat on property
so valuable as the Reserve, so we beg to move a
resolution that it be sold to a syndicate for the
benefit of the poor. We also beg to move that
his Excellency and suite be disposed of by public
auction at an early date.
w *
“ Throw up your situation ? ” “ Certainly,
as lam about to marry.” “Do you expect to
live on love ? ” “ No, on my love’s father ! ”
Miss Gladys : “You appeared very
abruptly with your errand awhile ago. You must
not come so suddenly into the room when Mr.
Smithers is spending the evening with me.”
Bridget : “ Suddent ! And is it suddent ye call
it, and me at the key-hole a full three-quarters of
an hour ! ”
* / # •
Ruskin, in a recent lecture, declared that
“ the whole meaning and power of true courtship
is probation, and it ought not to be shorter than
three years at least, seven being the more orthodox
time.” And suppose he finds he doesn’t like the
girl at the end of seven years, what then, Mr.
Ruskin ?
• * *
A furniture-van runs about South Mel-
bourne bearing in bold letters the sign : “Under
the patronage of his Excellency the Governor.”
This seems to hint that Sir Henry anticipates
being shifted. By the way, the van would hold
all the Australian Governors.
* * *
There is a decline in the population of
France. The decrease would appear to be due to
the lessened number of families of three, four, and
five children. When Moheau’s census was pub-
lished (1774) for every thousand families in France
there were nine of seven children. In the depart-
ment of the Seine, the proportion of families of
seven children is now seven per thousand. The
pairs having only one or two children always con-
tinue at about the same figure.
* • •
In future, no American lady who, being
married, cannot produce her husband, is to be per-
mittsd to be introduced to Queen Victoria. How,
we wonder, about the American ladies who can
produce several husbands ?
* •
A tall, affable-looking individual, of great
conversational powers, left his footprints on a
lady’s feelings a short time ago in the vicinity of
Dundas (Vic ). It was early in the afternoon
when he r i.-vp to the homestead of Mr. Mac-
squatter, and inquired to see the proper-rioter—at
least that was the way the message reached the
mistress of the house after the quality of the Eng-
lish grammar had been strained through Bridget,
the handmaiden who opened the door, begorra !
The proprietor was out, and then he inquired for
Mrs. Macsquatter, and on that lady putting in an
appearance, bowed all over the place with a
grace that had never before been seen in those
parts, and expressed his sorrow that the lord of
the manor was absent; he also viewed the lady
with suppressed admiration through the medium
of an eye-glass, and mentioned with grief, that he
had mi.-l tid his car’-case, but his nama wa3
Howard—Mr. \\ iimot Howard, no doubt
Mrs. Macsquatter had heard her husband
speak of him. She racked her brains
in the effort to recall the circumstance
and failed, but she invited the magnificent Howard
into the houss, where he deposited himself on the
plush furniture to await for the greatman's coming.
He preferred whisky-r-this fact leaked out in a
very short acquaintance —and he would take a
biscuit along with it, if it wasn’t too much trouble.
He was such a fine, gentlemanly creature, and so
handsome, you know, one couldn’t notice really
that his clothing was a little bit seedy and polished
on the angles; and then he was so self-possessed,
and such a charming talker, it was quite excusable
in the mistress and the pretty little governess if
they did become interested and drawn into con-
versation. Mr. Howard favoured the ladies with
some pleasant reminiscences of the Dukes and
Duchesses he had met, and, noticing the open
piano, was positive Mrs. Macsquatter would
not think he asked too much ; he was
passionately fond of music—wouldn’t she oblige.
The lady fluttered about a little and then she did
oblige, and after her the little governess obliged,
and presently the stranger obliged, and there were
solos and duets and other things, and Mr. Howard
stated again in his absent-minded, abstruse way
that he preferred whisky, and he had some more,
and altogether there was a high old time in those
premises. But at last a shadow fell across the
music, and the lady looked up, to see Macsquatter
in the doorway wearing the aspect of a hen that
has swallowed a hot potato; and with his waist-
coat swelling so visibly that the buttons were drop-
ping off. Mr. Howard rose, and extending his
hand, congratulated him on the possession of
so beautiful a home and such a charming wife, but
the pastoralist only caught hold of somethiug to
keep him from falling and glared at him for three
AT A PRIVATE VIEW.
NEW CHUM (in victorian Artists' Court): “FINE BIT OF PAINTING, THAT;
FRIEND: "WELL, IT WILL BE AN OLD MASTER BY THE TIME THE
EXHIBITIONS FINISHED."
minutes by the watch which had descended to
him from his deceased father. Then at last he
recovered his voice. “ I’m so glad you are
pleased,” he said, with frightful sarcasm. “ And
you, my dear,” turning to the alarmed wife, who
fancied that he had eateh something which didn’t
agree with him; “ I hope you’ve enjoyed a
pleasant afternoon with this gentleman. He’s the
new shearer I engaged in Cavendish last night.”
Tableau and screams ?
* * *
In a recent cise tried in Melbourne it was
decided that once the Corporation fixes the level
of a street that level is fixed for all time. This
decision has greatly enhanced the value of
property m the newer suburbs. When an earth-
quake comes around that way and knocks all the
salient features of, say, M'Guffin-street into
kaleidoscopic chaos all the householders in the
street have to do is to take an action against the
Council. The Council then, of course, takes an
action against the earthquake, which, by that
time, has probably cleared out to places where ex-
tradition treaties are unknown. And then every-
thing is gay. This is what we call the poetry of law.
# #
There is a cabman in Sydney who was
once a light-hearted and joyous bring, and when
he had received twice his fare he would get down
and threaten his passenger with summonses and
promise to “take it out of his hide,” and so
on, until he got another half-crown, and then he
would go round the corner and stamp with irre-
pressible glee and go forth once more seeking
whom he might devour. But all that is changed
now. He wis hailed the other day by a gentle-
man who, although a stranger to him, is well-
known among cabmen for his princely generosity.
“ Drive me to the railway, quick,” said the fare,
and cabby raised his whip and went for all he was
worth. When they arrived the passenger jumped
out, handed a coin to cabby and called a porter to
take his portmanteau away. But cabby was not
going to let him off so easily, and before he bad gone
three steps he was stopped. “ Well, what is it ?”
said the passenger. “ This ain’t my fare,” said
cabby, holding the coin contemptuously between
finger and thumb —“ an’ you orter be ashamed ov
yerself to give a feller a bloomin’ bob after runnin’
his ’orse ter death.” “Oh, indeed, and pray what
v'.s- your proper fare?” “I want ’arf-a crown,”
“ Well, here’s your half a-crown. Give that to
the porter.” “Thank you, sir; thank you, you
are a gentleman, you are,” said the porter, and,
after seeing the fare into the train, he turned to
cabby, and remarked, “ Well, you are a Jug-
gins ! ” “Wot for ? ” demanded cabby, “ d’yer
think I was goin’ ter take his bob?” “Bob?”
said the porter, and, taking it out of his mouth,
he held it up before the astounded eyes of cabby.
The despised “ Bob” was a sovereign !
* * *
Many stories have been told of the for-
tunes made out of silver-mining shares. Little is
mentioned of the fortunes lo3t. There is at
Broken Hill a man scarcely able to support a
small family, who, le3s than four months ago, was
worth £200,000 in easily realisable property.
•
Place aux dames ! The Broken Hill lockup
(N.S.W.) consists of one room fitted with seven
chains. Recently there were several inebriates
before the local justices, and among them was an
obstreperous female. The gallant beaks decided
that her case was paramount—that she should
have the sole use of the lockup for a few days—
and discharged the other drunks.
“ * *
The annual Licensed Victuallers’ ball was
held in Melbourne the other night. There were
no speeches made on the occasion. The hiccups
were consequently all sotto voce.
T> a
If you live in Sydney, you must go from
home to hear news—no, we don’t mean that, we
mean that you must go from home to see news in
print. That telegram in a recent issue of
Melbourne Herald was most artistic. Now-a-
days, when a fellow dares hob, for certain very suffi-
cient reasons, print “great scandal” in his own
rag, he wires it to the other rag.
* *
“Yes,” said Mrs. Fitzboodle, who had
been married 20 years, “if I were a young girl
again I’d never get married. I wouldn’t look at
the men, wouldn’t touch ’em, and I’d bring up my
daughters to the same way of thinking.”
* «
Citizen (who has been travelling on ex-
pired railway ticket); “ Your worship, I thought
the ticket was good for a month.” His Worship :
So it is—or £2. Next case ! ”
* . •
In one of his “Look-intoyour-heart-young-
man ” advts., Dr. Double-L. Smith observes :
“ Some patients suffering from nervous affections are
afraid from sheer bashfulness and modesty to personally
consult a medical man.”
Now we know why some of the “collective
wisdom suffer from “ nervous weakness ”so long,
lhey are “afraid from sheer bashfulness and
modesty,” Ac. Please don’t laugh ; this is a most
serious matter.
* * •
It is now permissible in high society for
ladies to appear in the streets accompanied by
cats. The pet animal, however, must be of the
long-haired description, and any lady who went
round in fashionable circles with an ordinary
back-yard cat, such as you could throw an old
boot at and hit any night if itdidn’tgetaway before
you struck the place where it had been but wasn’t
any longer, would be deservedly snubbed. The
animals are adorned with collars and other mil-
linery, and are carried struggling frantically in
the owner s arms. A cat, it is reckoned, would
struggle a great deal more frantically if it were
hauled along by a string, so they have to be con-
veyed in this way or else left at home, and the
woman whose cat is at home is regarded as want-
ing in a knowledge of the ways of good society.
* * *
The newest American lie relates to a
machine which is said to be planted at the corner
of an alleged street in Chicago. It bears the in-
scription : “ Drop 10 dollars in the slot and get a
divorce,” and the man who puts his coin in has
only to wait half a minute and the deed of separa-
tion comes up. If he puts in 20 dollars he can
get damages against the co-respondent as well.
* *
Some very queer stories indeed are being
told about the frivolity, not to say giddiness, of
the proceedings at a certain vice-regal mansion in
one of the Australias. It would be well if all
their Excellencies were to carefully peruse the
late Mr. (afterwards Sir James) Martin’s articles
in the Atlas with reference to the entourage of
Sir Charles Fitzroy.
The medical superintendent of Little Bav
Hospital, Sydney, where typhoid has of late been
treated with almost unexampled success, strongly
deprecates the use of alcohol in such cases.
* * *
Mr. Molony, late town clerk in New
Zealand, is in gaol. He didn't embezzle the town
funds, for Mr. Molony was above such paltry
sins ; he didn t take the brass candlesticks or the
communion-plate out of a church ; neither did he
raise another man’s hens, or annex another man’s
pansy-blossom—what he did was to load his gun
with buckshot and go out like a pirate on the war-
trail in search of a doctor. He let fly with his
implement of disaster at the first one who
came along and filled the hinder part of him
with shot when he was looking the other
BALLADE A DOUBLE REFRAIN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Sage or simple, ’cute or “ green,”
Saint or sinner, grave or gay,
None can view with loveless mien
Lebty Lind or Sylvia Gray ;
Crowds are nightly turned away :
Other “ star 3 ” (their audience thinned)
Curse the stage whereon ye play,
Sylvia Gray and Letty Lind !
Night by night as each is seen
Dancing like a dainty fay,
Hard it is to judge between
Letty Lind and Sylvia Gray :
For, as on a gusty day,
Vane 3 will vary with the wind,
’Twixt you two will Fancy stray,
Sylvia Gray and Letty Lind !
Hence lo ask were vain I ween,
“ Which must be—if either may—
Owned the saltatory Queen,
Letty Lind or Sylvia Gray?”
But, ’gainst fairest coryphee,
Ball-room belle or nautch of Ind,
“ Ten to one ” on you I'd lay,
Sylvia Gray or Letty Lind !
Envoi.
Yes, you reign with equal sway,
Letty Lind and Sylvia Gray ;
Fast to both my faith is pinned,
Sylvia Gray and Letty Lind.


When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread will be as white as enow.
[Interesting items of fashionable intelligence intended
for this column will at all times be thankfully received and
acknowledged by Miss SArrao Smith, Bulletin Office.]
At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitor?.
Fresh and salt-water baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
way. This action showed that the Molony had his
drawbacks, but it must be mentioned to his credit
that he ran and picked the physician up off the
flat of his back, and assured him that he was
sorry he had hit him so high up. In fact, he
added handsomely, that he was sorry to have to
shoot him at all, but he had been longing for years
to fire at the legs and feet of the profession, and
at last he had to do it. He was still explaining
these little matters when he was run in and put
in a cell.
• • *
A certain Australian firm advertises largely
in a ponderous Presbyterian publication which is
placed in subscribers’ pews every fourth Sawbath.
Before the shepherd arrives at fifthly and lastly,
my dear brethren, every redeemed soul in the
tabernacle is learning a beautiful lesson from
So-and-So.’e patent thingummies and the canny
firm devotes the whole of the next day to booking
orders from the chosen. There is a faint flavour
of terewth about this statement.
Advertisement (from S.M. Herald, of
course): —
WANTED, by widow, washing or scrubbing, by day,
Blank-street, Blankytown.
This may be very true, and we don’t wish to be
severe, but we strongly advise the lady to keep it
dark —for her own sake.
« • •
Can it be a fact that the well-known firm
of Smith and Sons have been deterred from in-
troducing their patent “ inflated bustles ” into the
“ cawlinies ” by the prevalence of the “ rinlting
craze V”
* * •
COMPOSITE.
The hash lay on a plate,
“ I’m a thinking entity,” it said,
“ I’m lying here in state;
I am alive, although my parts are dead !”
It felt a sudden thrill.
Then rose a clamour shrill:
“ O Whole, you’re rash ;
We parts are still ourselves, although in hash.”
Murmured the Mutton : “Ah, how yellow were
The cowslips in the fields, how passing fair
Was all about when I, a merry lamb,
Began the life which led to where I am !”
Said the Potato : “ Warm was the brown earth
Of the brown hillside where I had my birth :
What joy of growth within my bosom welled,
How curled my tendrils, how my tubers swelled !”
And mused the Beef: “ How green are Texas
plains;
With what a novel grandeur Nature reigns ;
What vast expanses ; how our pulses stirred
As we swept onward in a mighty herd ;
I see the flying steeds, the sudden dash !”
“Meo-ow !”
“ Bow-wow!”
Said the rest of the hash.
—Chicago Paper.
m •
At Coonamble (N.S.W.), the other day,
Father D’Arcy, who has been parish priest there
for a couple of years, was presented with an ad-
dress and a purse of 80 sovereigns. The Rev. G.
T. Geer (C. of E.), an Orangeman, spoke in high
terms of Father D’Arcy ns a good citizen, pos-
sessed of broad and liberal tendencies and a kind
heart! The Bulletin says hooray to this, and
hopes that very shortly a Catholic priest will say
■something nice in public about a Protestant
minister.
* « *
Gold-handled umbrellas are coming into
fashion. The handle is so arranged that it can be
taken off. This is an improvement on the old
style, where the entire umbrella was taken off.
* * *
From the Age :
OOARD and residence required by gentleman,
Hawksburn or neighbourhood, where there are
no others, and neither squalling brats, yapping curs,
nor notions of cleanliness where they do not exist ;
255. inclusive.—NEßO, Age Office.
• * *
A gentleman, whose address has been
temporarily mislaid, once offered some observa-
tions about a touch of nature which made the
whole world kin, and the human race has put its
signature on the back of his observation and
propped it up. It matters little in what form the
inspiration comes. A snatch of a well-remem-
song, a little picture, a cow, a small unkempt boy,
a hand-painted barn, even an old bullock-dray,
may recall the memories of the vanished past
which can never return any more, and arouse
tears which cannot be wiped away because the
owner of the emotion has grown into a dude
who leaves his handkerchief at home lest it
should make his tail-pocket bulge out. In the
course of the last Queensland election the Peak
Downs Telegram put its finger gently on the
keys and the human instrument responded to the
touch :
Mr. O'Shea: “ Perhaps the gentleman sitting on the
Stool (Mr. Killeen) will keep quiet and attend to me.”
Mr. Killeen : “I'll attend to you directly, believe me.”
At this stage the proceedings were quiet for a moment
while the slush lamps were replenished by the gentleman
with the can of fat.
There is a memory of old times in that simple pic-
ture of the gentleman with the can of fat. The
free fight that followed, and the way the chair-
man was knocked down and the slush lamps
thrown all over the place also recall visions of the
early days, and we weep for the dead and buried
larks that are offered up no more in this rowdy
and.
» * •
A motion to tax bachelors has been tabled
n the’N.Z. Parliament. It seems rough on the
bachelor to classify him with the wall-eyed Pagan.
* • »
William George Lucas Spowers, son of an
old Victorian identity, and part-proprietor of the
Argus newspaper, has taken unto himself a wife,
in the person of Miss Annie Christina Westgarth,
daughter of an old Victorian colonist. The
parents of these young people were, in the golden
days of the Southern colony, partners in the old
firm of Westgarth, Ross, and Spowers.
• * *
r The man who buys for a reasonable amount
the sole right to use in Australia the patent noise-
less cab-tyre will make a big fortune. Noiseless
tyres (of prepared indiarubber) have been in vogue
In London for years, and now a company has been
formed to run 500 cabs, thus fitted, from one
stable. The indiarubber wheel-rim makes cab-
driving over even the roughest street an absolutely
delightful sensation ; it also, by practically abol-
ishing the constant jolt of the ordinary hansom,
adds at least one-third to the “life ” of the cab.
• a •
Melbourne people are for ever talking
about the intricacies of their new Temple of Jus-
tics. We do not, however, notice that people
down South encounter many difficulties in “going
through the court.”
[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, August 1, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
Mr. Martin, of Ballarat (Vic.), who has recently returned
from a trip through the States, related this story to a
friend of mine. I haven’t attempted to lend any new cir-
cumstances to it, for even in the bald state in which it
reached me it is good enough. Mr. Martin reached Salt
Lake in the course of his wanderings, and one morning,
as he was gazing out of the window of his hotel, his eye
was attracted by a sign bearing the inscription: “ Hanson
Smith, Tailor.” “ Hullo I” he exclaimed, “ why Hanson
Smith was my old tailor at Ballarat, and I have lest sight
of him for years ! Can it be the same fellow, I wonder ?”
Just then the identical Smith came out, apparently bent
on a morning walk, for he had fourteen children trotting
behind, and he looked like an infant-sohool on
the move. “ It is Smith, by Jove, I’ll go over and see how
the old fellow’s getting on,” and a minute later the two
were fraternising on the pavement. “Well, you’re a nice
dog, you are,” said Martin when the first excitement was
over and he had taken stock of the children. “ I s’pese
you conform to the customs of the place, eh ? Got plenty
of wives, eh?” “Well, I don't know about having
plenty," returned Smith cautiously ; “ I’m too poor a man
for that. In fact,” he added, rather sadly, “I’ve only got
four,” and his friend retired, marvelling at how the
free air of Utah expanded the mental and moral grasp, cf
the plain and simple Australian.
I have just been reading a most interesting book,
“Twenty-five Years in a Wagon,” by a Mr. AndersoD,
long “ on the wallaby” in South Africa. Mr. Anderson
relates how, while sitting one day under a baobab-tree in a
South African forest, he heard the Bound of loud, deep,
bass voices. Ljing down in the grass, rifle in hand, he
waited, as the animals seemed to be approaching. He
soon saw a lion and a lioness quarrelling, about 70 yards
from the tree. The lioness kept throwing back her ears
and showing her teeth, at the same time pawing the lion
in the face and lashing out with her tail. The lion took it
all with quiet dignity, now and then growling out a re-
monstrance. At last the lioness, giving several cat-like
spits, bounded into the bush, and the lion walked off in
another direction. A hunter told Mr. Anderson that he
once watched a lion and a lioness from a tree. Another
lion began roaring in the distance, whereupon the lioness,
in spite of the lion’s efforts to prevent her, roared in
reply. At last the other lion appeared, and each roared
out a challenge. A fight began, their strong bones were
heard cracking, and the first lion was killed. With a
whisk of her tail, the lioness went off with the conqueror.”
How very human ! —don’t you think so ? How the lionesses
have been “ roaring in reply ” of late in Sydney, cl ce qu’on
dit.
The very latest fashionable nuisances are the women
who go to Sydney theatres wearing bracelets made of com-
plex strings of Eastern coins which they rattle at coni-
stant intervals—apparently to attract attention to them-
selves. They are not the only people in the world Who,
having a little coin, imagine themselves privileged to
make a great noise with it.
One of the most interesting studies in human nature is
a certain almost illiterate Australian millionaire, who but
a few years ago was a working man, and used to cut his
lunch at the shaft-mouth with a clasp-knife. Now he gets
his hair curled by the barber every morning, if you please,
and he frowns dreadfully in public if the champagne isn’t
dry enough to suit his cultured palate.
I see that the ladies of Melbourne Exhibition Chorus
are “ jibbing ” over the uniform which the Musical Com-
mittee, in Its wisdom, has decided that they shall wear.
They very naturally object, as their services are entirely
gratuitous, to adopt a costume which is a kind of com-
promise between those worn by coffee-palace waitresses
and hospital nurses.
A number of more or less veracious stories are floating
about in Melbourne with reference to the invitations
issued for the opening ceremonial of the Centennial Ex-
hibition. Here is one fresh from the mint, and hall-
marked 18ot., by a friend of your own Sappho’s. A well-
known Victorian legislator, who is the fortunate possessor
of a charming wife, received a card for himself and Mrs.
X. A few days afterwards, however, the card was re-
turned to the secretary, with a polite request that a fresh
one should be issued for “ Mr. X. and lady.” There is
more in this than meets the eye.
The fancy-dress Skating Carnival, at Sydney Crystal
Palace Rink, was a very successful affair. To my mind,
the most amusing feature of the show was the peculiar
antic 3 of the professional rinker, got up as a nigger-
minstrel ; the most graceful lady-skater was a somewhat
Mary-Anderson-like blonde in a blue costume, and the
handsomest woman was a stalwart creature in pink. The
nastiest sight was that afforded by a male creature in
white with a big nose who had plastered diamond-rings out-
side his gloves ; and the weirdest spectacles of the
entertainment were two abnormally lanky women in
evening dre3S, who were surely the queerest specimens
ever set up on wheels. One looked like a starved emu,
and the other like A. G. Taylor in petticoats.
A Sydney lady whom I know got into a ’bus the other
evening on her way to the theatre with her husband and
a party of friends. It was her housemaid’s night out and
as soon as my friend and her company had settled them-
selves comfortably in their seats, in got a fair creature
arrayed in pink satin and with a colossal spray of choice
flowers extending from one shoulder right down to her
waist. It was Bridget, who, when she peroeived her
humbly-attired master and mistress,,was mueh disoon-
oerted. Not a bit of it. “ Ah, Mrs. de Montmorenci,"
said she, “ did yez manage to get the baby to sleep before
you came out ?” Mrs. de Montmorenci smiled daggers
and closed her eyes in a deliberate not to say cold-blooded
manner. “Ah, Mr. de Montmorenci,” went on Bridget,
“ will yez kindly pass my ticket to the box for me ?” Mr.
de M. adds: “I did pass her ticket for her. Had it been
anyone else’s servant common politeness would have com-
pelled me to perform that slight act of courtesy. But
there was another reason—you can’t now-a-days afford to
quarrel with a young lady who consents to get up at
8 a.m. conditionally on your giving her 17s. a week and
tucker.”
The lonely buoy s that dot ‘‘our Beautiful Harbour”
and the lonely girls that dot our golden shores testify
but too loudly that the naval heroes of the “ dear old
mother country ” have set out for the carnival de Mel-
bourne where the heiresses now do oongregate.
Civilisation is slowly but surely spreading in Australia 1
Speaking of a recent fashionable hop, the Walgett editor
remarked that “ it gave him great pleasure to be able to
say that no one turned up beastly drunk to discomfort the
fair sex.”
'lt is again fashionable to dress the hair high. At the
play you now see many heads surmounted by perfect
scaffoldings. I saw one old lady the other night who had
so fixed up her lovely silver tresses that she looked as if
she had on her head a huge cobweb, or a earpet-brcom
—or, if you like, both the cobweb and the broom.
The average matrimonial advertisement is an uncertain
thing. The said advertiser is rather “giddy,” too, and I
am afraid that more married men wear themselves bald in
framing tender replies to the appeal of “a lonely orphan
with blue eyes,” or perhaps in concocting advertisements
on their own account, wherein they describe themselves
as “22, with a loving disposition and a dark moustache,”
than would be believed if figures were resorted to. All
this leads me gently up to my anecdote, which is per-
fectly true and happened not a century ago at Brighton
(Vic.). For the “fun of the thing” a gay spark inserted a
very fetching advertisement in a Melbourne daily:—
“A young lady, prepossessing, small fortune, wishes to
correspond,” &c. Answers poured in, and to the “young
lady’s ” surprise and amusement one came unmistakably
in the handwriting of his uncle—a benedict in the strictest
sense of the term. With him he made an appointment
“at the Brighton railway station at 2.30. I shall wear a
bunch of violets.” On the day named he and a friend
sailed down on the train and sure enough there was uncle,
gotten up regardless, pacing up and down the station.
“Halloa! what are you doing down here?” “Waiting
for a friend,” said “uncle” with a guileless smile, “he’s
awfully behind time.” Then the dutiful nephew smiled a
slow, ead cachinnation and melted off the railway-station
and had a day’s fishing, catching an evening train back.
On board that train was “ nunkie ” with a withered flower
in his button-hole and a forlorn and sat-upon air. “ Did
he come?” enquired the nephew softly. “ No, him!"
“No ! why I could vow I saw him. Hadn't he a hunch of
violet* in his coat ?” They never speak now as they pass
by-
Sydney Bicycle Club (under the patronage of Governor
Carington) hold their annual ball at Needs’ Rooms on
Monday, August 13th, in honour of the visitors to the
seventh annual amateur champion race-meeting. Cyclist
uniform or evening dress is requested by an indefatigable
committee, who are going to make a big thing of it.
Eyeglass Bailey had better come home at once either
to arrange for the support of the crowds of domestics that
his generous flowery eloquence will probably attract to
our shores, or else to raise a barricade to keep ’em out.
Says Bailey inter alia : “ Servants in N.S.W. simply
elevated themselves from the purlieus of the kitchen to the
drawing-room, and were soon picked up as either wives
or servants in good positions.” Truly of all plagues the
itinerant Australian trav elling on his jaw is about the
worst we have to bear —his consequences are something
horrifying. Not only in England does his mischief work,
but this jargon about “ elevations to drawing-rooms ” is
calculated to make the Australian housemaid less ambi-
tious to thump the Brinsmead and less anxious to know
how she would appear in Mrs. Blank’s dress and bonnet ]
isn’t it ? P.S.—This is sarkasm. It will probably be
wasted on Bailey.
Sydney Amateur Dramatic and Operatic Society gave
another performance at the New Masonic Hall on 24th
July, when the comedy “Written in Sand” and the
operetta “Trial by Jury” were very creditably gone
through in spite of many sudden alterations made in the
cast at the last moment. The audience was a very large
one, and as several of the ladies had left most of their
clothes at home I suppose I may say paradoxically, that
it was a full-dress occasion. One girl wore a very ugly
frock. A green-satin made like a bag and tied round the
waist with a red string—full sleeves trimmed with deep
coffee-lace and a string of sparse red coral round her
neck. I think she meant it for a “ Directoire ” get up—
but it wasn’t.
The Petersham Owls held their second hoot of the
season at the local Town Hall, on 25th July, when the
trouble consisted of a dramatic entertainment and con.
cert, followed by a dance and supper. The majority of
the dresses were very pretty indeed—one young lady in
white classic draperies with just one large water-lily and
foliage on her breast looked particularly charming.
The East Sydney Rowing Club annual ball came off at
West’s rooms on 26th ult., and, with a good attendance,
floor, and music, was very enjoyable. The rooms were
charmingly decorated—the “ Sydney” rendezvous, adorned
with crossed sculls tied with club colours, blue and white,
looking thoroughly representative of the occasion, and
the dresses all were very smart. The gown which seemed
to me in the best taste was a black velvet made eji traine,
and profusely trimmed with rare honiton lace, fan of
white ostrich feathers and black velvet. The worst was,
I think, a pea-green tarletan, made very full indeed, over
a tight green slip, and lavishly adorned with artificials.
Two scarlet dresses only were visible.
Another slap in the face for superstition! An unfor-
tunate man who felodese’d in the Beautiful Harbour re-
cently was discovered to have a horseshoe in one of his
pockets I Horseshoes are supposed to be luck’s embodi
ment.
Everybody seems to speak of the only Brough as if he
pronounced his name “ Bruff.” That is not so. The
right way to pronounce the baptismal of the ODly Robert
is “ Broof.” At least that’s how they call him in London
I’m told.
The 28th July, which was to have been such a big day
at Rosehill racecourse, turned out miserably wet and
slushy. Nevertheless, the race 3 eventuated I am sorry to
say. I had hoped for a postponement.
It is said that “ figures cannot lie.” Can’t they ? Not
the signs in arithmetic, perhaps, but there is very little
that isn’t a lie about some figures nowadays.
So huge a house greeted the first night of “ Modern
Wives ” at Sydney Criterion that I'm sure the walls of that
bijou theatre must have been absolutely bulging. One
lady whose head attracted my attention had her hair un-
commonly arranged tent-shape over her forehead and
temples, with, at the apex, a silver crescent resting on her
brow. It had an odd Turkish-effect, and I rather ‘ * cottoned ”
to it. Three ladies of Semitic origin displayed themselves
in an upper stage-box, and one, like Buttercup—a “ plump
and pleasing person ” —wore a black see-more costume
with little else to the bodice than two hooks and ribbon
shoulder-straps. (When Lawrence made his cutting remark
about a “ 20-button dress ” being much more needed by
women than 20-button gloves, I couldn’t help glancing at
her. Immovable, cfeOm-se.) “ Modern Wives ” is a dressy
little comedy. In the first act, Pattie Browne (whom ws
are all glad to welcome back again) wears a lovely cos-
tume of ciel-blue moire, en traine, with tablier of blue
and white moire, bonnet en suite. Mrs. Brough, a gown
that I didn’t care for—a dark-blue ground with large tar-
tan checks. In the second act, Mrs. Brough wears a plain
front of crimson moire, with bodice and draperies of vel-
vet en suite ; bonnet of crimson velvet with bows and
strings of vieux rcse—a get-up in which she looks charm-
ing ; while Miss Pattie Browne wears a walking-dress of
invisible-green cloth pinked out over a vest of mastic,
draperies of green cloth, pinked out, with side panel of
mastic and scarlet stripes ; Paris hat trimmed with grey
wings, and scarlet en tout cas.
In an interesting lecture on “Domestic Economy” at
Sydney School of Arts, Miss M. L. Manning remarked that
“ If porridge were allowed to remain two days before being
eaten those who ate it would not sp often complain that a
couple of hours afterwards they felt as if they had nothing
inside.” Of course they wouldn’t. The girl who ate
porridge two days old would have something quite different
to complain of, I should say. She would feel as if a pound
of lead had sat down permanently on her chest. Miss
Manning further said that “white should always be worn
next the skin and red (from the nature of the dyes that
produced it) should be avoided for inner clothing.” That
ought to abolish the scarlet stockings so dear to those
who have small feet and want to advertise them.
Those preposterously long-handled sunshades are
called “ husband-beaters.” By the by, there is some
method in this latest eccentricity of fashion. They are
intended to be carried when one is wearing a three-storied
bat, when a shorter parasol means a “ hoisted’-’looking
arm, or crushed ribbons and feathers.
Mrs. John Osborne gave an enjoyable At Home on Fri-
day week. Mrs. Nicoll's evening party at Elizabeth Bay
on Friday, 27th, was a pronounced success.
So Tessero has found that his French Comedy Co.
must either play to empty benches or silently steal away.
Heigho! Are Sydneyites after all only a pack of
Goths whose dramatic taste soars no higher than
pink fleshings and a yard of spangled tulle coupled to
unlimited impudence and a comic song? Bring on the
wonderful “ mather impersonator.” If she, doesn’t
create a treasury at the Gaiety you are at liberty to call
in and pollaxe yours affectionately
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Parisian police have expelled organ-
grinders from the metropolis.
In Brisbane a line of 5000 Mount Morgan
shares has been sold for £75,000.
“ I feel verrai mooch deesatished,” said
Monsieur du Bois just after his wife’s funeral.
That is how people feel who don’t take Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.
The secretary of Broken Hill Hospital, on
which many thousands of working miners depend,
urgently appeals for subscriptions from those of the
public who have been enriched by the mines of the
district.
The chairman of the Brunnerton (N.Z.)
Licensing Bench opened proceedings the other
day with a prayer in which he invoked a blessing
on all concerned, including the two lawyers. And
then the lying began.
General Boulanger has a negro servant
whom Mrs. General finds very useful in running
on errands. He was sent to purchase a pair of
gloves for the lady, and told that they were to be
of such a number, and flesh-colour. He brought
back a pair of the right size, but black!
John Bourke, who, in 1838, carried the
first overland mail between Sydney and Mel -
bourne, has been superannuated from his position
in the Melbourne Postal Department, and Parlia-
ment is to be asked to do something for him. The
Woman’s Rightists will snort at this. Parlia-
ment did nothing for the woman who bore the
first male.
Dear Bulletin, —At a station here (Thar-
gomindah, Q.) Chinamen are at work picking up
fleeces for white shearers. This fact does not
speak well for the backbone of the labourers and
bushmen, who, professing with their tongues
strong anti-Chinese opinions, quietly submit to see
white men turned away from the station in order
that Chows may be put on.—Yours, White.
Dear Bulletin, —Being down from the
country for a brief spell, I have inspected all
the Sydney sights, and, of course, have not
omitted that which mo3t interests the back-block
resident. The Assembly I had not entered for
nearly two years, and was surprised, a few nights
since, to find the strangers’ gallery crowded, a
change no doubt attributable to the return, after
a European tour, of that old public favourite,
Jack M'Elhone, who appears to be both a star
and a draw. The proceedings were not unin-
teresting—from a pantomime view were admirable
—but as an exhibition of legislative capacity, de-
bating power and oratory were certainly not repre-
sentative of the colony. Before or during shearing
any large shed in Riverina could produce six score
heads more capable of ruling a nation than those
which are sometimes broken in Macquarie-street
and generally ache in the morning. Nay, the sun-
downers at Big Yanko could all the year round
show 120 more intelligent men, and were I in the
place of Governor Carington and anxious to re-
generate N.S.W., I would immediately send for
“Scotty the Wrinkler” and command him to
form a Ministry. Prom the debate, or rather
wrangle in progress, I learnt that the Minister
for Lands, oblivious of the existence of cockies,
squatters, and dummies, was knocking down his
cheque. I gazed with interest on the other occu-
pants of the Treasury Bench, but especially on
him who was head of our department—l mean the
Receiver-General of Scalps and Minister for Mines.
My late mate was an Oxford B. A., who held her
Majesty’s commission for years, an “ Admirable
Crichton,” barring the drink, and, according to my
mother’s opinion, lam much the same. There-
fore it filled me with disgust to find that the all-
powerful Minister whose edict broke up our rab-
biters’ camp in favour of Pasteur’s chicken-pox is
only a very ordinary mortal with the voice of
an illiterate Cockney. Faugh ! away with
your education and good looks. In the battle
of life a ferret-eyed little pawnshop director
is greater than the perfect hero of a sensational
novel. Praising the Church of Rome in
Coningsby, Disraeli says it raised an English
ploughman to the chair of St. Peter. That rival
institution, the Orange faction, has done more
than this; it has elevated a cobbler from his stool
to a Cabinet seat with £l5OO a year. Yours,
Quart Pot.


A RADICAL REFORM
“/\H ! I feel so Mondayish!” exclaims the
housemother at her breakfast-table on the
Monday morning. Although the above absurd
adjective is not to be found in the dictionary, yet
every woman well knows its meaning when she
looks forward to the teeming, steaming, boiling,
toiling, temper-trying, hateful washing day. The
house is thrown out of joint, other weekly duties
are as far as possible set aside, the children kept
out of the way, a cold dinner for the family, and a
warm reception for anyone who intrudes to waste
time and to prolong the agony.
Happy, indeed, is the home where ‘ ‘ washing
day” is a thing of the past. Every busy, hard-
pressed mother knows the wretchedness and
gloom which the present washing-day brings down
upon the household. In the early morning all is
prepared for the all-important washerwoman,
timed to arrive for an early breakfast, and then to
attack the week’s or fortnight’s batch of soiled
linen. The good-natured husband readily excuses
a hastily-prepared breakfast, for he hopes it may
betoken the speedy ending of the dreadful day.
The children are packed off to school, and then
begins in earnest the strife between the housewife,
anxious to get everything finished in good time,
and the professional laundress, equally anxious to
make the work last over two days. With the
greatest impartiality the laundress divides her
attention between the discussion of light refresh-
ments and the very latest gossip, the intervals of
time being filled up with a gentle application
to her special functions.
You will see advertised “Steam Washers,’
whereby the linen is washed in boiling water.
This is altogether unscientific, as any sensible
woman knows, for water which is at or nearly at
boiling point will fix a portion of the dirt in the
clothes, imparting to them a villainous yellow
tinge. This is the experience of all who have used
such machines, and the reason is easily explained.
All body linen contains a certain proportion of
albuminous substances, which, although readily
dissolved in cold water, have the property of being
rendered absolutely insoluble by the application
of hot water, thus forming what dyers term a
mordant. This catches and fixes any dirt or
colouring matter present in this “steaming” or
“boiling” washer, and the clothes are literally
dyed a bad colour instead of being cleansed.
Then there are the old-fashioned “ Rocking
Washers,” which are made of wood or of iron, and
supported upon two standards. These revolving
or “rocking machines” are tedious to fill. The
clothes have first to be soaped and rubbed, then
taken singly and packed inside in a certain manner
inder pain of failure. Then the heavy “machine”
has to be rocked or swung round by main force.
Only a man or woman with unusual muscular
development should attempt the task. The Beale
D
Beale Patent Washer , Wringer and, Mangle.
Patent Washer can be used by a girl or lad of 15
years.
The two above-described “ Steaming ” and
“Rocking” Washers are those mostly before the
public in this colony at the present time.
The Beale Patent Washer may be simply de-
scribed as follows ; and we ask you kindly to refer
to the illustration. The vertical tub is very care-
fully made, with fluted sides. It is stationary,
only the water and clothes being agitated by an
accurately shaped dolly, which is worked by a fly-
wheel. The clothes are simply dropped in, no ar-
rangement or packing being wanted. The special
reversing gear moves this dolly swiftly backwards
and forwards, and a very small expenditure of
strength suffices to lash the water into a mass of
foaming suds. In the process the clothes are
floated to and fro, up and down; currents and
cross-currents of water are formed which meet and
are forced through and through the fabric, carry-
ing away every particle of dirt and stain. The
linen, being merely suspended in the water, is not
rubbed and scrubbed as in hand-washing. Neither
has anything to submit to the hand-wringing pro-
cess which insensibly rips, tears, and wears the
clothes. Thus, the most delicate fabrics cannot
be torn by our system of washing. Every one
has noticed that their clothes seem to be as much
worn by washing as by use. This is caused by the
fierce rubbing they get upon washing boards, or
by the hands. With the Beale Patent Washing
Machines this friction is done away with. There-
fore, the clothes will last far longer than by hand-
washing, however careful. When the washing is
done, the tub should be wiped out, so that it may be
always sweet and clean. There is no false bottom,
and nothing to accumulate greasy sediments.
Finally, remember that no hand-rubbing and no
boiling are required with the Beale Patent
Washer, however much they may be necessary
with other machines.
Instead of the disturbance of the weekly wash-
ing-day, two or three hours will suffice to do the
double work, and to do it every way better. A
weary labour will be taken off the house-wife, and
a happier home will result. Is not the introduc-
tion of the Beale Patent Washer fairly to be called
a Radical Reform ?
A customer of ours calls the change, “ Washing
made Pun.”
May be had upon Easy Terms of Payment, no
matter where you live. Full instructions accom-
pany each Machine. We will replace, without
charge, any part broken in transit.
Beale & Company,
482, 484, and 486 George Street,
BYDNKY
Australian mutual provident
society.
FOR LIFE ASSURANCE ON THE MUTUAL
PRINCIPLE.
Established 1849.
Head Office—87, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
>T. P. ABBOTT, Esq , M.P., Chairman
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-chairman
J. T. WALKER, Esq.
JOHN ARTHUR, Esq.
THOS. LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
JAMES THOMSON, Esq.
ROBERT J. KING, Esq.
Chief Medical Officer:
JAS. C. COX, M.D.
Actuary:
MORRICE A. BLACK, F.I.A.
Secretary:
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
This Society is the only Australian Life Office
which declares a BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The PRINCIPAL SOURCES OF PROFIT'
are—the high rate of interest obtained on the ac-
cumulated iunds; the small percentage that the
expenses of management bear to the annual in-
come ; and the extremely favourable rate of mor-
tality which continues to be experienced.
MEMBERS MAY BORROW on their Policies 1 '
to the extent of 90 per cent, of the Surrender 1
Value.
Policies are not forfeited so long as the Sur-
render Value is sufficient to pay one Premium.
BONUSES VEST after Policies have been tv>ro
full years in force.
JUST PUBLISHED 1 .,
A Most Unique Work on
MEDICAL, SOCIAL, AND HYGIENIC:
SUBJECTS.
It contains Information most Valuable in
NERVOUS and OTHER DISEASES,
For its Hygienic Rules are worth its weight fra
gold. Send your full address, and we will send IPbsfc
Free One Copy, given away for the next Six Moatha.
Only. Write to PROFESSOR R. T. SELBY,,
:ern, Sydney.
TO RUNHOLDERS, FARMERS, AND
OTHERS.
£60,000 to Lend.
—
PURCHASERS FOUND FOR PROPERTIES,
STOCK, &c.
HADFIELD, ALLAN & CO., Stock, Station,
and Financial Agents, Sharebrokers, 90 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
S. FREEMAN & SONS,
IMPORTERS
AND
MANUFACTURERS.
Mo 1 : Baking Folks, Orient Square Bine,
EGG & CUSTARD POWDERS.
EXTRACT OF SOAP. SODA CRYSTALS.
SALAD & CASTOR OILS.
Orient Washing Powder.
BLACKING. VINEGAR.
CURRY & PUDDING POWDERS.
SELF-RAISING FLOUR.
TOILET OILS, PERSIAN SHERBET.
&0., &o.
STEAM WORKS:
HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
SYDNEY.
COURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESON it CO.’S
"MARROWBONE LANE" WHISHT,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Yhos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
The AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MKNT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 87 VIo.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital ... 41,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... 432,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BLACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
This Company receives deposits at the following
rates of interest
For 3 years .. 7 per oent. I For 1 year 0 per cent.
For 6 months 4 per oent. | For 3 months... 3 per oent.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on Its entire real and personal
property, Including Its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
Loans granted on Mortgage for fixed terms and
loans repayable by instalments.
MONEY ADVANCED FOR BUILDING
PURPOSES.
Estates Managed. Rents, etc., Collected.
Estates Sub-divided and Sold by Aioation and
Private Contract.
Head Offices— lo, 12 HUNTER STREET.
JNO. O. NEILD,, Manager.
J>UZZLES FOR HOME FIRESIDE.
SPLENDID SET of 6, comprising the Railway
Smash, the Midnight Attack, the Sleepy Nigger,
Crossing the Desert, Shipping Disaster, and
Monster of the Deep. Sent free for Is. stamps.
Address NORTON WADE, care of A. LUSBY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
GRAND HOTEL,
CORNER of MARY and MARKET-STREET
BRISBANE.
(Opposite A.U.S.N. Wharf.)
D. COSGROVE, Proprietress.
(Late of Lennon’s Hotel.)
THIS Hotel having passed under a new manage-
ment, great improvements have been made,
making this one of the Finest Hotels in the
Colonies. Private Suites for Families.
Ladies’ Drawing-rooms, Gentlemen’s Reading
and Smoking-rooms, Billiards, Night Porter.
Hotel Porter waits for all boats.
The Culinary Arrangements are nnder the
supervision of a Continental Chef.
FITZROY HOTEL,
■AST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON,
Tibet-Class Family Hotel.
Plunge and Shower Bath.
Titrate Sitting-room, without extra charge,
good Stabling. Every accommodation.
JAS. WILLIAMSON, Proprietor.
Excelsior hotel, charters
towers.
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets.
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory :
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHaIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Newton & Lamb.
j ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
m
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous posi ! ions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the ocoupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des’gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton & Lamb.
t-
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. .Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
d'SEaokwi
0! B
D
RAWING ROOM CABI-
NETS.
Early English
Chippendale Designs.
Newton & Lamb.
PIANO FOE ES by R. LIPP and SOHN,
CARL RONISCH, L. NEUFELD and
other Celebrated Makers at WHOLESALE
PRICES. NEWTON and LAMB.
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Vest Complete
Assortment,
Many quite new designs.
Newton & Lamb.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Nbwton & Lamb.
s
R
ELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH, for
Invalids and Medical Men.
OCKING EASY CH ■IRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a specialty. Newton &, Lamb.
"OEDSTEADS, all sizes.
Nickel-plated and Black
.and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton . & Lamb.
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: also,. Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s. each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. ;
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
WT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory «
RPTITNO & O’OONNTCTX STREETS,
Long-Lost Relatives.
Alfred James Drew went to Sydney or N.Z.
fourteen years ago, and is now sought by his
mother.
Thomas Hibbert went to Melbourne in 1881,
and has not been heard of since. He is sought by
his parents.
Reuben and Simeon Odwell left Hampstead
for Australia in 1849, and are now sought by their
aged mother.
John Edward Pbatt left England for Aus-
tralia in 1883, and was last heard of in 1886. His
mother inquires.
Job Love (Tyler), a blacksmith, is supposed to
have left Chelmsford to go to Auckland twenty
years ago. His sons write.
Tom Smith sailed from Gravesend in the Aber-
deen in 1884, and has not since been heard of.
His mother asks for tidings.
Henry Q. Price was last heard of carting on
a railroad being built in Canterbury, N.Z., seven
years ago. His mother applies for his address.
G. Goodsell {nee Martha Liddiard) is
anxiously sought by her mother, who last heard of
her at the Empire Hotel, Lambing Elat, Australia,
in 1878.
Benjamin Alderton left London 21 years ago
for Adelaide in the Carnatic, and in his last letter
said he thought of coming home. His mother
inquires.
Edwin White went to Sydney with his brother
George, in 1877, and was last heard of in 1881, at
Madras-street, Christchurch, N.Z. He is anxiously
sought by his parents.
George Adkins went to Adelaide with his
family in 1873, and was last heard of in 1881 at
Union-street, Stepney, Adelaide. His parents
wi-h to hear from him.
Charles Harris sailed for Port Phillip in the
Tropical, 1847, and was last heard of in 1849, when
he had returned to Sydney, after having been up-
country. His children write.
Thomas W. Little sailed in the Legion of
Honour for Brisbane in 1864, and was last heard
from at Mrs. Smith’s, Charlotte-street, in 1871.
His aged parents ask for tidings.
Thomas Reynolds and his brother John Wil-
liam Revnolds were last heard of in 1884, the
former’s address being Burnleigh, near Brisbane,
and the latter’s San Francisco, U.S.A. Their
father writes.
John Sullivan and his brother Jeremiah are
sought by their sorrowing mother. John went to
Sydney in 1869, and his brother followed to Mel-
bourne the following year ; since when neither
have been heard of.
Mr. Vaughn, M.L. A., who is an American
by birth, is the champion billiardist of his district —
Grenfell, N S.W.
“ Australia’s ” Monster Consultations. The
Tramway Handicap, run August 25th, 1888. 4000
Subscribers at 10s. each. Erst Horse, £800 ;
Second, £250; Third, £150 ; Starters, £250; Non-
starters £250 (divided amongst them), and 100
Cash Prizes of £3 each. The Hawkesbury
Handicap, run September 15th 1888. 2000 Sub-
scribers at 10s. each. First Horse, £400; Second,
£200; Third, £100; Starters, £100; Non-starters,
£100 (divided amongst them), also one of the £50
Cash Awards of £2 each. Hawkesbury Handi-
cap, 1000 Subscribersat20s. each. The Melbourne
Cup, run November 6th, 1888. 10,000 Subscribers
at 10s. each. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result,
Address ‘‘Australia,’ care of Mr. HughDalveen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
Georere Street. Sydney. N.S.W.


Amusement*.
c
RITEKION THEATRE.
Bole Proprietor Mr. Jobn Solomon.
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
FIFTH WEEK FIFTH
EMPHATIC and UNDENIABLE SUCCESS
of
BROUGH and BOUCICAULT’b
Very Popular and Powerful
COMEDY COMPANY,
in
ERNEST WARREN’S
clever adaptation, entitled
MODERN WIVES
MODERN WIVES.
ADMISSION-55., 35., 25., and One Shilling.
General Business Manager —Mr. JOE DAVIS.
Alhambra music hall,
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington
VOX POPULL
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EVER.
ROARS OF DELIGHT.
THUNDERS OF APPLAUSE.
IMMENSE ENTHUSIASM.
The above but faintly describes the reception
our NEW FIRST PART RECEIVED on MONDAY NIGHT
by the overflowing audience that witnessed its
FIRST PRODUCTION.
OUR BLONDINETTES
OUR BLONDINETTES.
SUPPORTED by the following well-known
Artists
Miss AMY BLACK!k’, THE COTTIERS’,
THE JAMES'S,
and the Members of this well-known and talented
Company.
, ,
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d,
- - E m Y OF MUSIC,
Lessee and Manager, F. E. Hiscocks
SYDNEY TAKEN BY STORM.
Hundreds unable to gain admission nightly to
witness the most UNIQUE AND' REFINED
ENTERTAINMENT IN EXISTENCE.
HISCOCKS and FRIEDMAN’S
NEW ENGLISH SPECIALITY COMPANY,
in conjunction with
HISCOCK’S FEDERAL MINSTRELS.
SY D N E Y
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Prince
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World.
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light.
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 5000
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood has
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors.
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free,
others will be charged the regular prices. _ The
Management reserve the right to refuse admission
to any objectionable characters.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT.
Reappearance of
R. J. AGINTON, the King of the Rollers.
EVERY EVENING, at 9 p.m.,
until further notice.
Mr. AGINTON claims the title
CHAMPION TRICK and FANCY SKATER
OF THE WORLD.
’Buses will leave Wynyward-sqnare every ten
minutes for the Rink.
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, Is.
-OOTANY ! BOTANY ! BOTANY !
NVERY SUNDAY AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Gband Sacred and Classical Conokbt of
Well-known Artists.
—Artistically and Numerically the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship of Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. Children Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY.
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Conoebts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is. j
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopfobd, Sub Manager.
B
ON D I
AQUAR I U M,
The most popular picnic and pleasure grounds of
Australia. The famous SWITCHBACK RAIL,
WAY, conveying passengers from Cliff to Cliff
daily. Splendid Asphalt Open Air Skating Rink
Free to Visitors.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission,
Is.; Children, 6d. Trams run to Gates—fare, 4d.
HARRY STEGGA,
PITT-STREET, OPPOSITE POST-OFFICE,
FOB
Gentlemen’b Outfitting in Every Branch,
viz.:—
Shirts, Hats, Gloves, Scarfs, Hosiery, and Under-
clothing in the following makes Cashmere,
Lamb’s-wool, Indian Gauze, Merino, Natural
Wool, and Professor Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary and
Hygienic Normal Wools (registered make).
Overcoats, Macintoshes, Dressing Gowns, Patrol
Coats, &c. Umbrellas, Portmanteaus and Travel-
ing Bags, plain and fitted. Travelling Rugs in
Alpine, Mohair, Kaiapoi and Sealskin.
Moderate Prices, with Civility and Atteatlo*.
&&VAVOB? Dbsbbtbo Boom P*@»idwb.
Amusements
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison
Doors open 7 ; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45*
THIS EVENING,
at half-past 7.
LIGHTS O’ LONDON
LIGHTS O’ LONDON.
Pbioks, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manages.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove.
Lessee. Mr. S. Lazar ; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
MR. CHARLES WARNER
as
COUPEAU, in
DRINK. DRINK. DRINK. DRINK.
Prices as usual. Tlokets for all parts at Eastway's.
-\J- Ew OPERA HOUSE.
_l3l Lessee, Mr. H. E. Werner.
General Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman.
LAST WEEK OF
MISS ADA WARD.
BRIGHT'I
BRIGHT \
BRIGHT J
The Latest London Success,
BRIGHT HOPE.
The Great Sensational Drama.
(HOPE
\ HOPE
[hope
ADMISSION— 4s. 35., 25., Is.
LOOK OUT FOR SATURDAY’S ANNOUNCEMENT.
Ashfield recreation grounds
AND GARDEN PALACE.
Skating every Afternoon and Evening. The splen-
did Recreation Ground Band will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
Coming Events :
August 4.—The Ashfield Athletic Club Sports.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
RAND CRYSTAL PALACE
SKATING RINK,
Next to Opera House, York-Street.
THE MOST FAHSIONABLE RINK IN SYDNEY.
Still Another Grand Success.
Open every Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
ADMISSION, Is.
Immense Success of the Electric Light, Incan-
descent, and Arc Lights.
Specially Superintended by Messrs. G. K. Kirk-
land and Co., Electrical Engineers.
SESSIONS :
MORNING, 10 to 12. Ladies and Children
AFTERNOON, 1 to 5. Free.
EVENING, 7 to 10.
Grand Crystal Palace Rink Band. Sixteen
Performers specially selected.
The whole Building brilliantly illuminated by
ELECTRIC LIGHT, Incandescent and Arc
Lamps, specially imported for this Rink.
The Illuminating and Decorations on the
grandest scale ever attempted in Sydney.
SKATES FOR SALE OR HIRE.
May be inspected on application to the Manager.
SKATING SURFACE:
The LARGEST and BEST FLOOR ever laid
in the colonies.
EXPERTS having examined the Floor declare
it to EQUAL the largest ever constructed in
America or England.
Skaters only allowed on the skating surface.
Special Accommodation for 3000 Spectators.
SEASON TICKETS
can be obtained on application to the Manager.
SPECIAL RATES for Ladies and Families.
~ „ Ladies and Gentlemen
possessing Skates.
A LARGE and EXPERIENCED STAFF of
INSTRUCTORS specially engaged.
The Rules and Regulations of the Rink will be
strictly enforced.
NOTICE. —The Management reserve the right
to REFUSE ADMISSION to ANY OBJEC-
TIONABLE PERSON.
ALFRED WYBURD, Sole Manager.
SEASON, 1888 and 1889.
TWENTY-TWO YEARS BEFORE THE
PUBLIC.
J. H. WHITE,
(Member of Tabtersall’s Club, Sydney and Vic-
torian Club, Melbourne)
TURF COMMISSION AGENT,
175, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. H. White’s Weekly Circular of Current
Prices on all forthcoming events (as quoted at the
Sporting Clubs) forwarded Gratis to any part of
Australia or New Zealand on receipt of name and
address.
II F E PRESERVATION;
J BY
Dr. J. D. LLEWELLYN,
Specialist,
10 Lonsdale Street East, Melbourne.
This work is a medical treatise describing ac-
curately, faithfully and concisely the Functional
Disorders and Diseases arising from excesses, in-
discretions and other enervating influences with
their associated evils.
Specially addressed to young men with advice
on health, and replete with valuable and tangible
information that is of incalculable use to all
sufferers from Nervous, Debilitated and Con-
fidential Complaints.
For the benefit of all who desire a speedy and
reliable curative treatment without the aid of
quacks.
Price per mail 3s. 6d. (any colonial stamps). To
be had of all booksellers or the Otto Publishing
Co., 200 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
DR. GEORGE ON LEE, 31 Carlton Terrace,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
Will see PATIENTS on 29th August at Armidale;
3rd September, see Patients at Brisbane for Four
Days only. Patients will please call early. All
persons suffering from any Internal Diseases,
Tumors, Cancers and Abscesses may have them
dispersed by medicine without cutting. He asks
patients no questions but will tell them where the
pain is felt. Consultation fee, 10s. 6d.
MR. NEIL MACK AY, at one time canvasser
for The Bulletin, will please communi-
cate with this office immediately to save further
trouble. Bulletin Newspaper 00,
Business Announcements.
THE
‘ PLUM ”
Razor.
THE
PLUM ’
Razor.
FOR Private Use is Unsurpassed. Genuine German Hollow Ground; set ready for use. Never
requires grinding, and we guarantee each Razor for Two Years. Price —Single Razor, 10s. 6d.,
or a Pair of Razors in strong Leather Case, £1 Is. Send P.O. Order.
680
CRAIG & AITKEN, Potosi Haircutting Saloon,
tS- Nine Haircutters always Employed !
GEORGE STREET, BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
THE BRIGHTON OB' IT„S-W-
-AT the CLARENDON HOTEL, Banquetß, Supperß, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc., are
served on the shortest notice In the Large Dining Hall. Besides having a most rcchcroht
dinner, you can enjoy from the balconies the magnificent view of the sea and surrounding country |
here also you can have good company, good wines—in fact, everything that can possibly make one
comfortable oan be found at this really first-class hotel. Fishing and. Picnic Parties provided. Tablt
de Hdte at I o'clock daily and Sundays, No expense is spared by Mrs. Kilminsteb to make her
visitors comfortable, and her Hotel the best in the colony.
Mrs. KILMINSTER, Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH. MANLY
TayloHßro 3
HIGHLY NUTRITIVE
Coeoa
MAY BE OBTAINED sM LABELLED TIMS OH PACKETS THPUOHOIJT THE mi OMY
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23rd duly, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RA-BBIT-PROOF FENCING.
SPENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
l the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of about 2 miles 20 chains ol fencing of posts and • > wires,
straining and alteiing ab)ut 19 miles 40 chains of existing fences, and
attaching wire-netting to about 21 miles 60 chains of fencing between
a point on the boundary-line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales
and South Australia, about 20 chains north of a mile-post marked “ 66 ”
and a point on the said boundary-line near the 88th-mile post.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill ; Messrs. George Ferguson & Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide ; and Messrs. S. Drew & Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing, Section 3.”
HENRY PARKES.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates, 12 chains post and rail fencing, 7 miles fencing
of posts and 2 wires, altering and repairing about 36 miles of existing
fences, and attaching wire-netting to about 43 miles fencing,—between
a point on the boundary-line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales
and South Australia, near a mile post marked “ 88 ” and the 131st-mile
post on the said boundary-line.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia ; Messrs. George Ferguson & Co.,
Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide ; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill ; and Messrs. S. Drew & Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed, “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing, Section
J HENRY PARKES.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1888,
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 11 o’clock on Tuesday,
the 28th day of August, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates, 12 chains post and rail fencing, repairing and
altering about 26 miles 40 chains of existing fences, and attaching wire
netting to about 48 miles 60 chains fencing—between a point on the
boundary-line dividing the Colonies of New South Wales and South
Australia, about 20 chains north of a mile post marked “ 134 ” and the
183rd mile-po3t on the said line.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be obtained at the Inquiry
Branch of this Department, and upon application to the Crown Lands
Agents at Wentworth and Wilcannia; the Mining Registrar, Broken
Hill; Messrs. George Ferguson and Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide ; and Messrs. S. Drew and Co., Kooringa, S.A.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be accepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary for Lands, and
endorsed “ Tender for Babbit-proof Fencing , Section 5.
HENRY PARKES.


THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
The Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literarj
Journal, is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
The Bulletin favours —
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived diiectly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
- ' System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. Tiie Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its iuception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the direct cause of
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a, popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
ntelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official —that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, ■ its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
1 Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.
The mystery of a hansom cab—What is
the fare ?
The Christian World (Sydney), which is
popularly supposed to b 9 somewhat under the
influence of Uncle Abigail, violently attacks
Parkes for having appointed Bailey as a stipen-
diary emigration lecturer in England, and says,
in a nasty, two-edged way :
“ It is humiliating to a degree to realise that the in-
terests of N.S.W. are being hawked about in the mother-
land by an uncertificated insolvent and a Sabbath-break-
ing journalist, who prides himself on the fact that he
neither fears God nor regards man. To make matters
worse, Sir Henry Parkes admits that he has from time to
time received numerous personal applications for ap-
pointments as lecturers from gentlemen of the Press,
clergymen ”■—this is where the sting of the matter pro-
bably comes in—“and others visiting Europe.”
Our reverend contemporary continues
“ Apropos, the following has reached us by the Eng'
lish mail from a reliable source. A Mr. Bailey, styling
himself a Sydney journalist (and whom we suspect to be
the person referred to above) lately e ought an interview
with the editor of the Pall Mall Gazette. On Mr.
Bailey’s arrival at the office, he found Editor St ad
engaged and while ‘ waiting his turn ’ entered into con-
versation with the chief sub-editor of the Gazette, to
whom he boasted of his journalistic and other exploits in
N.S.W. He (Mr. B.) was, he said, the pioneer of Sunday
journalism in Sydney ; he it was who really brought S r
Henry Parkes * out ’ in the first place, and many other
wonderful things. The Pali, Mall representative upon
this ventured to remark 1 that in Victoria, at any rate
(whatever they might be in N.S.W.) they weren’t of his (Mr.
Bailey’s) mind on the Sunday question.’ ‘Oh 1 no,’
replied Mr. Bailey, ‘they are all Presbyterians down
there in Victoria; it i 3 different in Sydney.’ At this
point Mr. Stead came upon the scene, and at once
jokingly observed: ‘ Well, sir, what is all this they tell
me about y our starting Sunday journalism in Sy'dney?’
The visitor commenced to relate with pride his achieve-
ments, but was cut short by Mr. Stead, who remarked, in
his characteristic bluff way : ‘ Then let me tell you, sir,
you are an enemy to your racs! ’ Visitor: ‘ But they like
it (Sunday journalism) in Sydney, and they don’t think I
am an enemy to my race there.’ ‘ Then, my dear sir,’
retorted Mr. Stead, ‘ it only' shows what a hold the devil
has got on Sydney.’ ‘ Good morning,’ said Mr. Bailey, as
he picked up his hat.
Old Port, Claret, Hook, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Musoat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-olass Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all lnseots.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 267 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Scott’s Emulsion of Pure Cod Liver Oil with Hypo-
phosphites, is more reliable as an agent in the cure of
Consumption, Bronchitis, and General Debility, than any
other remedy known to medical science. Read the
following: “I have prescribed ‘ Scotts’s Emulsion’ and
have also taken it myself, and can fully endorse the
opinion that it is both palatable and efficient, and can be
tolerated by almost any one—especially where Cod Liver
Oil itself cannot be borne.— Martin Miles, M.D., &0.,
Stantonbury, Bucks, England.”
C. ELEY
im
y
&
$
<3
s*
s
<2?
*
A
©
©
$
A
<y
a
o
V
£>
©
&
A
v
O
o
'O
A
V
0
&
T%
A
O
V*
O
rS
A
A
A
V
o
O'
A
A
V*
<b
O
<c N
V
o
&
Si
O
A
O
390 a GEORGE S T
SYDKTBY^
EOR SALE.— Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply,
Bulletin Office.
The days of the book-canvasser are num-
bered. A German firm has invented a steel-clad
bullet that will penetrate four inches of brass.
The Germans are sending an expedition to.
the South Pole. They will annex that, of course,
and probably carry it away and set it up in Berlin
with an observatory on top of it from which to
keep a telescopic eye on the French. This will
naturally upset all our present system of geography
and astronomy, and the whole thing will have to
be reconstructed before we know where we are.
Then we shall have our statesmen clamoring for
a war with Germany to recover the lost Pole, and
insisting, in burning words, on the wanton aggres-
sion on Australian rights calmly permitted by the
British Government—they all the time forgetting
that they wouldn’t grant a few thousand pounds
to fit cut an Expedition on their own account
when the scheme was proposed to them. Our
troubles, anyhow. We shall still publish this
paper at the same price if we have to publish it
in Platt-Deutsch.
A badly-scared saint of the Chadband
breed, signing himself “ A Voice to the People of
God ” is permitted to write in the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald a letter suggesting “ that the Church
should at once meet together, irrespective of de-
nomination, to plead with one voice for their pre-
servation,” presumedly from invasion. Defences
of any kind, no matter how strong, without suppli-
cation before the Throne of Grace, this individual
deems useless ; but he altogether shirks reference
as to what might occur if the invaders should also
interview the “Board.” Whether, in that case,
‘ ‘ the God of battles ” would remain strictly
neutral, or what side He would espouse, “ the
voice ” is unable to state authoritatively, but, like
all “ snufllebusters,” he has no doubt that Ms is the
right side, and that the Board is of necessity on
it. The dead-certainty and ineffable unction of the
epistle is beautiful. “ Holy Willie’s Prayer ” has,
seemingly, been written in vain, after all.
Thk Progress op New South Wales.— At present
there are 1407 miles of railway in operation; there are
11,639 miles of telegraph wire ; 425 State Schools, with
1161 Teachers. These statistics, though of a miscel-
laneous character, testify to the growth and vigour of
this youthful colony. It is easy to understand amid so
many working classes and growing children, how valu-
able and useful a medicine is which possesses the pro-
perty of checking and curing those diseases peculiar to
New South Wales itself or incidental to life generally.
This however is the characteristic of Freeman’s Original
Chlorodyne, and has secured for it in New South Wales
a reputation of the highest character. No other medi-
cine has obtained a similar position in any other colony
and no colonists have spoken in higher praise of the
virtue of Freeman’s Chlorodyne than the residents, the
manufacturers, the shepherds, and the miners of New
Zealand. Its value in the Nursery and in Female Com-
plaints can scarcely be over-estimated.—Sold everywhere
throughout the Colonies. Insist upon having “Free-
man’s ” only. Reject substitutes as they are worthless.
Trade Mark, an Elephant.*
Pearls in the Mouth.— White and sound teeth, healthy
gums, and fragrant breath, can be only obtained by the
daily use of Rowland’s Odonto, or Pearl Dentifrice. It
eradicates tartar from the teeth and polishes the enamel,
to which it imparts a pear-like whiteness. Rowlands’
Macassar Oil prevents the hair falling off or turning grey,
and produces a luxuriant growth. Buy Rowlands’ articles
of chemists *
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN and GUARANTEE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under Companies Act, 1872,
CAPITAL, £500,000.
Reserve Liability, £112,322.
Sydney Office,
Corner of MARKET and YORK STREETS,
Sydney.
The Company grant Advances upon Deeds and
Mercantile Securities.
Fidelity, Mercantile, and Contractors’ Guarantees
accepted.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS :
3 months, 5 per cent.
6„ 6 „
12 „ 7 „
And a Bonus declared to Deposits of 12 months, 2
per cent. 6 months 1| per cent.
Arrangements can be made to withdraw deposits
at any time on demand.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RUSSELL MARSHALL, Manager.
A. MILLER, Accountant.
tea and eastern merchants,
NO. 78 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ia^TOIEasTTS
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
lot
INDENTS ARE EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMa
JONES’ SEWIIG MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES. 7
The Best Manufacturing Machines In Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Go.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents lor the above (or New Sooth Wales and Queensland.
Also Importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in all details, including Machinery
Imported Leathers, &c.; and of the following Special LinesPEERLESS GLOSS, SATIN POLISH’
NUBIAN BLACKING ; Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms’
Business Announcement!.
ROW’S
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken twa
or three times a day j a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for ohildren.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov*
lng all Impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them moßt
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England,
Port Adelaide, Ootober, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,—l have great pleasure in recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
ourative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfnlness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—.
Yours,
m O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 31, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general d6'
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition ol
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leiohhardl
Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney."
ows
EMBROCATION,
R
|-sr
la
3
\SOLD
a E\/ERXWHERE(i
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
be as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, — I have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen
STATtfr’ORY Declarations.
“ I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ )Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANB
BITTERS, prepared solely by
" BW BOW »" OOGAMY.


Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of Gents’ left off clothing.
Dress suits for sale or hire. Letters promptly
attended to by Quittenton Bros., 11l Russell-
street, Melbourne.
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg (jo notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELAOHRINO & 00., CAIRO.
M. OADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIBAESTTES, list FINEST BUNDS of CMS,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices l
KT Note thib Peioi !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette—the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand —in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHHUNGB EACH!
m By buying from us you will save at leaßt
16 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
H mmi STREET, S7DHE7
(opposite Savings Bank).
NOTHING LIKE IT!!!
FUN WITH CONCEALED CAMERAS!
The €ON€EALEi> cameras are designed - for the use
of those who wish to photograph, without attracting the
attention of anyone, the interesting sights met in everyday
life ; such as picturesque groups, quaint figures and striking
.facial expressions, where opportunity to sketch or to set up
an ordinary camera and tripod, arrange the focus, draw
slides and such manipulation are out of question. The
beautiful results obtained with these cameras, and the ease
with which they are secured, make it of great value to
Artists, Detectives and Tourists.
We have Reduced the Price of these instruments
considerably, and send full particulars of same on applica-
tion and enclosure of stamps.
Blit
XjICSZTIjTETS CO,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK WAREHOUSE,
32 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, and
9 HAYES’ BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH ST,, BRISBANE.
Business Announcements.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin,
Tasmanian Edition, Publishers FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per
quarter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on sale every Friday at
the office, George-street, or from the runners in
the street.
DR. SPEER’S
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Di
Speer is a regular Graduated Physician, eduoated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The dootor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all oomplaints with excellent results. All applying to
nim will receive his honest opinion of their complaints
No experimenting; no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he under t kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe re there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiic trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a oertain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician-
thoroughly informed in his speciality—CHßONlC an
SPECIAL DISEASES OF MEN and WOMEN. Peopl
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles ii
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spker, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, Iron
10 to 11 a.m. onlv.
TATTERSALL’S
KONSTEfi CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Event*
throughout the Year. For fall particulars see
«* Town and Country Journal,” also Brevities In
“Evening News." Address, “Tattersall’s," oarr
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Club, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tlokets are requested
to register their letters to ensnre safe deliver-?,
also enclose two addressod stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GUO. BED. 6BD.
EHIB FAMOUS AND FAVOUBITB BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
Btill maintain* Its Preitige and itand* pre-eminent amot
the hoit* of other brand* a*
THB BUST QUALITY BRIAR PIPR OFFERED TO
SMOKERS.
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The nnderilgned are prepared to enforoa the Law againts
all perion* imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & 00.,
181 OLARBNOB-STRBBT.
GtBD.
We have Large Bhipmeni* of
PIPES to hand and Regular
WHOLESALE ONLY.
GtßD*
thi* BRAND OF BRIAE
Shipment* ooming forward
B H U I T O F’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FLOUR
Oan be obtained throughout New Sonth Wales
Queensland, and Viotoria.
SYDNEY ...
BRISBANE...
MELBOURNE
34 Pitt Stbbbt,
Edwabd Stbbbt.
Spenohb Stbbbt.
J} R. RICHARDS,
Send for large Bound BOOK on SELF-CURE
for all Nervous Diseases; price, including post-
age, fid. In stamps. Consultation costs nothing,
and the Dootor will tell you at onoe whether your
case is curable or not. Address—*-
DB, RICHARDS,
7, SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
£NUT THIS OUT
“As I have said, the capitalists are just beginning
to fffid us out, and now is the time for those who
wish to be first. Nor is it to large capitalists only
that we offer a wide and profitable field. A large
capitalist may do well anywhere if he has the wit,
BUT THEBE ARE NOT MANY PARTS of the World which
hold out snch inducement to the small capital-
ist.” (Extract from Sir N. E. Broome’s speech on
West Australia.)
A grand investment is now offered to the Small
Capitalist in the
CARLTON ESTATE,
At Perth, the capital city of West Australia,
Large blocks, having from 280 ft. frontage, with
big depths, from £2O each. Ten per cent, deposit.
Balance extending over 3 years. Torrens’ Title.
Purchasers can pay off at any time, and receive
deeds (guaranteed at £2 ss. each) without delay.
The Carlton Estate, from its excellent position,
must greatly increase in value. It is only If
miles from the city. The railway to Albany passes
by. Bayswater Station is handy, and the Estate
fronts the Government road from Perth to Guild-
ford. The land is high; suitable for either build-
ing or garden purposes. It is, indeed 5 the cheapest
estate yet placed on the market. Compare it with
others and judge. Government maps, drawn to
scale, showing the exact position of the property,
may be consulted at the office of the Company. A
few corner sites still available. Inquiry costs
nothing. On application marked plans, with
reliable information, will be forwarded to any
address. THE INTERCOLONIAL INVEST-
MENT COMPANY, LIMITED, 96 Bathurst-
street, Sydney. (Registered under the Companies’
Act.)
W. J. DOUGLAS, Secretary.
T> RITTENBERG & 0 0.,
-*-*• IMPORTERS,
81 Clarence Street, Wynyard Square.
Furniture, Mirrors, Oleographs and Mouldings
Brief Mention.
Queensberry—Sir Graham.
Frozen meat —the cut direct.
Pastoral lands —Church properly.
Cardinal Moran loves things Celestial.
A service of plate—The church-service.
The N.S. W. postman’s knock—No pockets.
Breeches of confidence—the N.S.W. post-
men’s trousers.
A Gippsland boniface calls his wayside
pub. the Step Inn.
Local Option is better than “48 hours’
without the option.”
Cabinet—cab for Garrett, “I ” for Parkes,
and net for the tiger slayer.
Most bookmakers are J ews. Quite natural.
Was not Moses the first book-maker ?
“ Is there a material hell ? ’ asks the Mel-
bourne Herald. It is immaterial —to us.
Toy v. the Crown was a recent Supreme
Court case in Melbourne. A pair of toys.
Officials in N.X. gaols are to be armed
with swords —the cat does not cut deep enough.
“ Bishop Barry leaves Sydney for a much
better billet at Chester.” This is Chester’s we ex-
pected.
“If you are a bank-teller and play crib
you will be euchred.”— Letter* of Mr. Doolan,
vol. 8, p. 591.
The newspaper is the Archimedean lever
which moves the world. It is also the Archi-
medean drill which bores the world.
In the Yolapuk lingo the word “ galon ”
means “to rejoice.” Half-a-gallon ought to be
enough for any reasonable man.
Sydney is to have a new amusement
shortly—sliding. Nothing to do with the sliding
scale of commission at Abigail’s bank.
Mr. Bevill is agitating in Sydney for the
teaching of Yolapuk. We hope to see people
learn Yolapuk—after they have learnt English.
A Melbourne paper heads a column article
“ Advice to the Thirsty.” We can give better
advise in five words : “ Have a beer, old man !”
Boxing is taught in connection with one
or two Melbourne churches. It will indeed be a
happy day when the parsons learn the use of their
hands.
Russian newspapers are forbidden by law
to use exclamation-points in their articles. Judg-
ing from this, there are no evening papers in
Russia.
An excited Pyalong (Yic.) Shire Council-
lor appeared at a recent meeting of that august
body armed with a metal bar. He ruled with a
rod of iron.
A Maitland (N.S.W.) farmer shot himself
through the head, the other day, and calmly
dropped dead. He had received notice to quit his
farm. He did.
There is in N.S.W. a town called
Goomoorah. Of course it wants a railway, but
strangely enough it hasn’t yet proposed to change
jts name to “ Carington.”
A Melbourne paper says that lib. of
bananas contains more strength than 31bs. of
bread. The editor probably discovered this by
treading on a banana-skin.
The fact that the Ballarat Local Optionists
have now started an anti-Tobacco Society reminds
us that they are determined to exterminate the
devil that lurks in the bowl.
Sweet are the uses of adversity. A man
fell down the bank of a creek near Donolly (Vic.),
breaking two of his ribs, and found a two-ounce
nugget when crawling up again.
If you want to know what a sliding scale
is, try to handle a wet fish. This joke is respect-
fully tendered to Uncle Abigail and John Hurley,
Esq., M.P., of the Australian Banking Co.
“Do the dead communicate with the liv-
ing ?” demands Brisbane Courier, at the top of a
long article. They do. They communicate through
the leading columns of the Courier and the S. M.
Herald.
A man was burnt to death whilst drunk in
his tent at Yarroweyah (Vic.) the other night.
We have not heard the number of the tent, but
this shocking occurrence should shake public con-
fidence in those Rechabite institutions.
Hooray ! Rest for the weary ! Bless the
patentees “ The Latest Novelty—The Eahr
Pianos.” Still they must be foreigners, for they
spell far with a superfluous H. Let the distant
music-boxes be admitted duty-free and sent to the
Never-never.
“ A woman feels where man thinks.” Yes,
and that’s what makes him bald.
The French Government is about to build
an absolutely unsinkable man-of-war. This will
be accomplished by the use of celulose amorjihe,
a product of cocoanut-fibre, so elastic that if
pierced the hole closes of itself.
A Melbourne mother recently put her baby
out to farm and it appears to have been mislaid.
At latest dates the police were searching for the
absent little stranger in St. Kilda cemetery, but
they haven’t dug up the right one yet.
From a Prahran (Melbourne) paper :
“Noah Smith, who pleaded guilty to having been
drunk, was discharged.” We should think so.
The Bench, no doubt, saw at a glance that Noah
was suffering from a hereditary craving for drink.
By-the-way, it has just struck us that if his an-
cestor, the Grand Old Distiller, had been fined
“at the jump” for illicit distilling there would
never have been any of those ignoble notices stuck
up in the Parliamentary refreshment-rooms of this
great and glorious country.
Somebody writes to the Sydney D.T. to
assert that the N.S.W. Government sent a
“gentleman” round the schools to touch up the
drawings which the pupils were supposed to have
executed for the Melbourne Exhibition. A gentle-
man who is out on such a mission generally does
most of the drawings himself, or else he
touches them up to such an extent that he turns a
pump into a bottle, or a crab into an execution;
so if Tiger Inglis wants to do the square thing
might as well take his tail under his arm and go
round and inquire into this matter.
The N.S. Wales Commercial Travellers’
“ relief ” fund now amounts to £lOOO.
Mr. Chine returned to Chicago after a
three months’ absence in Europe. “ I suppose,”
said an interviewing reporter, “that you found a
great many objects de vertu in Paris?” “No,”
said Mr. Chine. “On the contrary, it was the
wickedest city I visited,” — Intek-Ocean.
POLITENESS BECOMES EVERYBODY.-A WATSONS BY EPISODE.
"PRESENT ARMS, PLKABEP!"
“During the recent sittings of the Mel-
bourne Court of General Sessions,” says the Age,
“there were nine acquittals in succession—a record
that is perhaps unprecedented.” So it may be in
Victoria, but a reference to the old court lists of
Maitland, Singleton and Muswellbrook would
show that it has frequently been beaten in N.S.
Wales. The late Edward Butler used to say that
you couldn’t get an Upper Hunter jury to convict
in a case of cattle-stealing for love or money.
A Victorian clergyman told his con-
gregation one Sunday morning a few weeks
back that he had established the efficacy of
prayer on a solid, blue-stone basis, and proceeded
to illustrate the fact with a little anecdote about
a pious cattle-dealer with bow legs, who ran 50
head of steers into the local market, and then
solicited the aid of the gospel slogger and his good
wife, and besought them to join him in a fervent
little prayer or two, beseeching the Almighty to
make those steers realise high prices. They
prayed with great gusto, altogether, then one
after another, and wound up in a profuse perspira-
tion with a psalm. What followed, dearly be-
loved brethren ? On the next evening the stock-
jobber broke eagerly in upon the parson, and ob-
served devoutly : ‘ 1 Thank Heaven, my friend !
them steers fetched a pound a head more’n I ex-
pected ! ” This should prove a corker to those
shallow sceptics who profess a conviction that
prayer won’t split wood, fill the water-tank, trap
rabbits, and make itself generally useful if scienti-
fically and judiciously applied. At the same time,
there are a number of very worthy people who
won’t be any the better pleased with the clergy for
joining the trade, in its scandalous endeavours to
keep up the present high price of beef. P.S.—•
The pro. notes given in exchange for the above-
mentioned steers have, it is rumoured, been care-
fully dishonored.
Official assignees in bankruptcy in N.S.
Wales are in future to give security of £2OOO on
their appointment to office. The Government
have taken a dreadfully long while to find out that
the list of assignees has from time to time during
these last 20 years or so included one or two of the
choicest and greediest and most high-toned rogues
on record.


Life is short—only four letters in it.
Three-quarters of it “ lie ” and half of it an “ if ’
' . ,
Queen A ictoria says Gladstone has 1 st
his head.” Let us hope it will be picked up by
one of her sons.
A woman nearly always kisses her husband
when he returns from the office—to discover if he
has been drinking anything.
Melbourne ! Er ild has gone into training
for the Centennial Exhibition, and now refers to a
sixpenny restaurant as a “refectory.”
T , 0 , , , i „d
Judge Stephen seems to be taking all the
Supreme Court criminal business. Has the judge
on whom formerly fell most of the work decided
to take other business ?
There is an Irish Exhibition on in London
now, but it seems to be a rank failure, for there is
no wake, no corpse, no free whisky, tobacco,
pipes, and snuff—not even a row.
Advertisement from Sydney daily :
mHE Gentleman who paid a visit to No. 2 Pitt-
A street, Waterloo, on Friday night, July 13, during
my absence, kindly return papers. Money and jewel-
lery no object.
Sir Samuel Griffith, who always reads The
Bulletin says It is a marvellous paper and
is my weekly tonic, though it has said very nasty
and untrue things o me ># It is certainly the most
Austrahan paper printed. _
A recent Melbourne Herald has an article
entitled “Growth of Opinion on Hell.” Con-
genial subject! The HeßaLd comp 3. say that
FROM A PHOTO. BY KERRY AND JONES. THE QUEENSLAND FOOTBALL TEAM.
a certain member of the editorial staff can “ raise
hell ” quicker and better than any man they ever
saw.
Pan-Anglican and Pan-Presbyterian Con-
ferences are now being held in Great Britain. No
small fry are admitted. Happy thought— why
not have a Pot-Baptist Conference ? There would
be in our opinion a stimulating rivalry about the
title which should make the circus a huge success.
We now read that “ Sir Morell Mackenzie
thinks that the abscesses in the ear from which
the German Emperor has been suffering for some
time have affected his brain.” We also read that
Sir Morell was once a journalist. We always did
think he had a good grip of the science of adver-
tising.
A daily paper publishes amongst its
diurnal twaddle the fact that the Emperor of
Germany and the Czar of Russia “kissed on
meeting.” Of course they did—they always do.
It’s their hideous fashion As the kissing is a
matter of course, we wonder whether anybody
really pays for such things being cabled ?
Dear Bulletin,— Some time ago I com-
plained to the N.S.W. Minister of Justice that a
certain J.P. had given me a cheque which, when
presented at the bank, was returned marked “ No
account.” The Minister referred me to the
Colonial Secretary, who, after some weeks, made
answer that the affair was not important enough
to take action upon. Comment is needless,—
Yours, Richard Sanders.
Some people call a man who keeps a
whisky-mill a publican, and then always think of
him as a sinner. This item is intended to show
that all publicans are not sinners. In a certain
N.S.W. mountain village lives an innkeeper
whose determination from earliest youth has been
to have his house full of apostles. He married,
and had in time four boys, whom he christened in
order Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
The Broken Hill (N.S.AY.) Proprietary
Silver-mine has within two years paid £440,000 in
dividends, whilst if the shares allotted in block 14
and block 10 are counted at their present market
value it may be said that there has been distii-
buted within that period no less a sum than
£l 968 000 , or an equivalent of £123 for each share,
on which £9 only has been paid up j n C ash, and
with only a very sma H liability for uncalled
capital.
An American paper says that if the doctors
j n Colorado don’t report a case of smallpox they
ar e liable to a heavy fine and imprisonment, and if
they do the friends of the afflicted chase them
round with guns. Air. Creed might make a note
of this. Somehow, the medical lavs of N.S.W.
have drifted into a confusion which seems past all
remedy, and We would point out that a little per
sonal vigour goes a lot further than a dozen Acts
of Parliament.
p arne ]l threatens to prosecute the Times
before scotch j if the Times Charges Bill is
nofc amended . V other wor ds, Parnell will exer-
cise b j s right of prosecuting for libel in Scotland
someone who has published in that country an
issue of the Times containing the alleged libels,
This adroit move cannot be obj°cted to on the
score of unfairness. Scotland is neutral ground,
and the administration of law in the Scotch courts
is notoriously impartial.
Says Haynes’ paper -“ To read The
Bulletin now, one would imagine its staff was
composed of a string of pardoned murderers.”
That’s easy to answer. To read Haynes’ Weekly
throughout its brief existence, one would imagine
its staff was composed of a string of vnpardoned
and unpardonable murderers.
A rabid Sydney Freetraie paper say 3 :
“ Gillies is giving Protection its quietus under cover of
the advantages of his surplus. Thus has Grover Cleveland
made his way to overthrow ‘ the creature ’ in the United
States.”
Three lies in three lines make a good average. By
the way, as (according to the yarn quoted) in
Victoria Freetrade comes in with prosperity
attained by means of Protection, are we to assume
that Protection comes along in N.S.W. by means
of the deficit incidental to a Freetrade regime ?
Dear Bulletin, —“Scotty the 'Wrinkler,” in
his letter about the N.S.W. Shearers’ Union starts off by
stating his belief that The Bclletlx is favourable to any
association having for its object the benefit of the work-
ing man ; then he strikes off to say that as the shearers
could not get along without the rouseabouts, the latter
ought to take advantage of their position and squash the
Union. His next vagary is that the Shearers’ Union
ought not to exist because some Union men happened to
ask him for food, knowing the boss of the place to be
opposed to the Union. He also informs us that he has
made an easy living out of the squatters for a good many
years. He ought to know by this time that it is the
shearers he makes the living out of, as it is they who pay
for his work, not the squatters. Besides, it is not so long
since he was all for the Union. He seems to have a re-
markable facility for adapting himself to oircumstances
When he is in a Union district he is a Unionist, and when
he finds himself in a non-Union district he quickly veers
round and attacks the Union.—Yours, AxothKr Shearer's
Cook.
A wild Irish girl was sent to a R.C. con-
vent, where she made all the nuns laugh by some
rather curious stories she had heard from her
brothers. After some time it struck her that
perhaps she was doing wrong in making the nuns
laugh, and the next time she went to confession
she confided her scruples to the priest. He de-
cided that it entirely depended on what the
stories were like, and suggested she should tell
him one. She chose the very mildest and related
it to him. He listened attentively till she came
to the end, and then, forgetting himself for a
moment, said, “ Ah ! ye have a betther wan than
that!”— Hawk.
During 1887 N.S.W. absorbed 1,130,964
gallons of ardent spirits, costing £2,066,546; and
9,380,895 gallons of colonial beer, £1,407,135;
whilst colonial wine only found human vattage for
601,897 gallons, worth £300,948. The colony’s
drink bill was £4,614,585 for the year, and the
adult masculine —we trust, adult masculine —
population of that sunbright land drank enough
liquor to wash out the deficit even with Burns’
recent additions to that interesting intangibility.
In five years N.S. Wales has mopped up alcoholic
moisture to the extent of £25,206,939, and yet the
Rev. Mr. Boyce says drinking habits don’t pay.
They do pay—the brewers and whisky importers.
Dear Bulletin, — I take the following from
the A&Gus of .Tuly 28, 1888, and would wish to
place side by side the two following extracts from
the report of the half-yearly meeting of the Metro-
politan Gas Co. (Melbourne)the
(l) Mr. w. A. Zeal, M.L.C moved that the
remuneration of"the directors should be raised from £1350
. . . to £2OOO, dating from Ist January, 1888. It was
carried by 35 votes to 18. (2) Mr. McDonald entered a
gBOS
exUafa l«-opoi a n whxT£^da°^d
Andthis is Australia, the working man’s paradise!
This is hurriedly written, but I send you cutting
for what it is worth. The Gas Co. as above pay
solendid dividends and have done for years, as
you doubtless know.-Yours, etc., P.8.G., Mel-
bourne, 25th July,lBBB.
Dear Bulletin,— Here is a piece of brutal
official snobbery. Somebody or other has taken
the trouble to get the following offensive and in-
humanproclamation painted over a comparatively
kindlv notice to the same effect until lately dis-
n aved ?t the entrance to Sydney District Court.
played an me 3 3
The notice now reads thus.-
“ Indigent persons desirous of admission to the e o-
daily ” 1 1
We are daily growing more and more like the
“dear old mother country” in our style. The
svstem of parochial relief, and the deity m a
beadle’s uniform, and unfeeling bumbleism like
the above is gradually taking the place of the
hospitality which, ere we became so civilised, was
found all over Australia. The Sydney authorities
can’t give a poor, broken-down woman a hospital
ticket without rubbing into her the fact that she
is “a sick pauper." Why should the uotice nob
read ;—“Sick persons desiring hospital treatment
will apply to the Inspector-in charge.”—-J.S.S.
The above is from Haynes’ Sunday News
(plagiarising from the late Harold Grey). To
return the compliment, without plagiarism ;
The Sunday News l The Sunday News !
Now bossed by man of ’verted views,
Who Parkes’s shoes servilely b'cks,
To be repaid with cuffs and kicks ;
Who basely swapped, like Esau rash,
His fathers’ faith for Friday hash,
And tries to drowD, ’mid Orange yells,
The old-time tune of “Shandon Bells,”
What brings the “ Sou per ” meat and booze?
The Sunday Noose, the Sunday Noose.
Mr. J. Sullivan, umbrella and walking-
stick manufacturer, of 541 George-street, Sydney,
is preparing a huge exhibit for the approaching
Melbourne Exhibition. His sticks are all of
colonial wood, and his umbrella-handles are of
similar material, while the silk is a patent variety
made expressly to his order and absolutely
guaranteed not to split. In fact, so long as Sulli-
van’s umbrellas are not stolen, they give complete
satisfaction to the owner, and after they have
been stolen they are a joy and a pride to the man
who took them away. Parasols in a thousand
different varieties of elaborately-carved handles
are another speciality, and ladies can now have
their dainty little mushrooms made to order in
any and every imaginable style. Mr. Sullivan
claims that his goods are equal in every way to
English manufactures, and there aren’t any points
about the gamp of the United Kingdom to induce
anybody to doubt his word.
As it is only ten months till the nest
Queen’s Birthday we take the opportunity to
give due notice that we will exterminate the man
who, on any future occasion of the kind, wallow s
in the dried-up gag about the empire on which
the sun never sets. The stale old wheeze has had
its day. It was published in all its vigour by an
ancient Roman author (it is just possible that he
cadged it from an Assyrian or a Greek); it was
put into poetry by Camoens when he sung the
glories of Portugal; the Spaniards panned out on
it in the days when they owned half America aLd
the isles, and lastly it has been turned into solemn
prose that it may be fired off by small local cele-
brities as they hang on to the table and propose
the health of their gray — hie— shus Queen. The
joke is getting played out. Lesh ’ave nurrer drin-
/wc-hink.
Perhaps the meanest thing in business is when
one firm tries to trade on another’s name, or
getting so close to it that the difference is hardly
perceptible. This is how the London and Ameri-
can Tailoring Company, of the Arcade, George*
street, are being served, and intending cus
toroers should see that they are not misled by such
reprehensible practices.
“ The Bulletin ! The Bulletin !
The journalistic skeletin;
The paper all the hash is in-
The paper all the trash is in ;
The paper to amuse a gin,
The Bulletin, The Bulletin.”


Hotel*.
blit Vue Hotel,
BRISBANE,
* Puliunant Hon.ee, Botanloal GtM4.ua,
Queensland Club.
FAMILY HOTEL.
4q COBSBIODATION for ninety.
Walter meets every Steamer,
tod Telegrams pi,
ease address proprietor,
S. M. COLLINS.
HOTEL, MULIDRN.N.i.W.
JE, accommodation lor commercial
O 8 *oomg. ° t * »S^ era * sitting rooms,
Ja MES SIMONS, Proprietor.
Morgan hotel, Queensland.
USI patronage of His Ex.
2r l, »6ortJSl IBfi!rav «* K.C.M.G. AooommO'
2 , T . W °- Bt °rey buUdlngs. From
view ean be obtained of
Walk S°r tain °* gold > and within a few
<^ BH^ e ,? mipany ' 8 works. Passenger
y from Rockhampton and
vT’Mthe W - MONCKTON, Pro-
ol Wnr .T, W - MONCKTi
- r *a of Mpnokton and Co.
M 0U NT MORGAN.
Ia «d National Hotal,
80 BBDROOMa
b t ® on beautifully done up, and
fU? r M*® reception of visitors.
taod.»»!! ar looted with best brands
Cj Mafc e. Mrs.Heiseb,Proprietress.
Pcia * Bympie, Queenfel
,°* the oldest Family a
•• .-a*
Hot and Cold Bal
Proprietress,
>B’ HOTEL,
’Vs
Way l'a*ifx N o Bi Sphkobc-mbh
the above hotel, wb
of over 100 roo;
mod era “ utu uon of over 100 roc
> l b^>U-w,7 nprovem entB ) such as 11
s!sS?^S®£S 1 “J ro, "“-'“*»>»
Uis® baths * hot and °° ld baths, she
Jj and^n Bt lu Ber eleva tor, elec
a U . other hotel requisites,
Visitors can
VtT ly momir « trains. Let
*• ° mptl y attended to. Prices
PEt KR woods,
‘•wner and Fropriatc
6 hotel, aibnrj
become Lessee o
C Hotel, begs to Inti
O Sh rt^. v en to ?, Publi « that every atten
k?l« it the verv tr 6 management to ensur,
Best Accommodation pro
jNSmJ^DoS^? Bfor PamUies. f W.
St oonveni?° omß ' Magnificent bal
SSrE??- u- M 1 w
x> Letted 8 - N.S.Wrtnd Vie
' Mfot ported tele »* amß P*omptl|
Poapcl
«o
I --Ij^aonnoemeptg.
Man’s
Ok 0/ Li
®(*OCATION,
a i>o a
UTILE yIS
raij n
Scars. ~
SYDNEY, 188
HhMq a » a n
W, *» Sot>i7 reSBin g tor Fim
b acks, giri
aui? KNjflEs » GREAI
N to\h> 4 Ms '. Barter crag
Orr:: an<l as ait jEmhmcAtri
STIFF JOIN’
S ,J
«■ W ,tP
s p tl . ROTXLK.: '
; ■ vf'f/f/. m.p.s
7 v TIIEE TiWEST,i
\ AN ' ,J
-es~=3
REDFER
k Houses, Druggi
- torekeepers.
Business Announcements
•w
MAMDMrTuiURI
* er
( »
HATS CAPSfc
4l£ CEOHCE ST
SYDNEY \
&
Ki
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
gTU D Y
ECONOMY
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
covered, and your
Parasol* re-lined and made «qpd
to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'fij,
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Street*
Parasols made to match cos
turnea Repairs neatly execntfcd
K IN G’S V'EWS
Of SYDNEY*
JENOLAN CAVES, BLUE MOUNTAINS,
&c., &c.,
31s &EOR&E ST., between Hunter-si. and fi.P.O.
i MATTES;
CEO ROE STREET
, SYDNEY
'M PORTERS Or AIITHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And ab QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
mams
is m mm
BALSAM OF
HOREHOUND.
IT HAS A
o«aglM,Coi<Si.
of the Client a»i :
■nooaMfol piapaxe
dally*
JLEABANT TABTE
a* ahlldian are tad tS
u.
rriMio.
V *******
Oc, Oat* of Neathfc
I* Lmtbom, England.
, «a M., * 11*. par bottle.
1 flkanW *Ol p recur* U. !
NAI
OR
Baking
sS$
%f>
° 1 -*
OBTAINED A
FIRST CLASS AWARD
O R
HIGHEST DECREE OF MERIT
ISTH E BESTINJHLW.ORLD!
NONE OTHER BUT
WAU G H ’S/
rtECE i VEDTHE INTERN ON A L
PRIZE ME $ A L
Manufactured byJames CHARNOti
Harbour S t Svdncv
Sdd by AH CrocersandStorekeepei'S
Business Announcements.
M
0 S? U M B N T
Id ©ranlbe, Marble, and Freestone,
Iron Tomb Bailing*.
Deiigni aad Bitimate* forwarded on reqneit.
4. COTHfIUeHAM,
ttAMAUX-STKMXT, WYNYABD-SQUARM, BYDMBY
WONDERFUL MEDICINi.
BEECIIAM’S PILLS
CH 4
&
&
0
PATENT
PILLS.
ft
::
*
538
!»
Are admitted by thou-
sands to be worth a
Guinea a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head,,
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep,. frightful dreams,
and all nervoui and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. This
is no fiction for they have done it in thousands of cases.
Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
lor females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
aB a few doses of them carry off all gross humors, open all
obstructions, and bring about all that is required. No
female should be without them. There is no medicine to
be found to equal BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the Bystem. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health.
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work, wonders upon the most important
organs of the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” ad-
mitted by thousands embracing all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
BEECHAM’S MACfIC COUGH PILLS.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,, Difficulty
in Breathing, Shortness of Breath, Tightness and Oppres-
sion of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills stand un-
rivalled ; and any one labouring under any of the above
complaints need only try One Box to prove that they are
the best ever offered to the public for Asthmatic and
Consumptive Coughs, Hoarseness, and Oppression of the
Chest. They speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. They give almost instant relief and com
fort to those afflicted with the above distressing and,
when neglected, dangerous complaints. Let any person
troubled with any of the above complaints give Bmcbam’s
Cough Pills a trial.
The most violent Cough will in a short time be re-
moved.
Caution.— The public are requested to notice that the
words “ BeEciiam’s Pills', St. Helens,” are on the Govern-
ment Stamp affixed to each box of the Pills. If not on
they are a forgery. v - • -
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the
proprietor, T. Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. ljd. and 2s.' 9d. by-
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers throughout the
Colonies.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
The bank of new Zealand,
Sydney Branches t
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-np Capital ... ... £1,000,000
Reserye Fund... .., .., 500,000
The Bank has Agents in ail the principal cities
throughout the United States of Amerioa and
Canada, ctd can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Cred’t. 'j. .
Drafts issued and Bills oc "looted on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application,
N. F. GIBLIf Acting Manager.
s
CIENCE CONQUERS DISEASE 1
I The Successful Treatment of
NERVOUS and SPECIAL DISEASES
according to the Laws of Nature and the
Philosophy of Common Sense.
No More MERCURY ob other Noxious
Stomachic Contaminations.
Dr. T. C. WRIGHT,
M. 8., Ch. M., &0.,
EMINENT SPECIALIST ON
Kidney, Nervous, and Special complaints; registered by
the Medical Boards of Victoria and England, and the only
legally qualified practitioner advertising in Australia who
holds the Diploma of Physician and Surgeon, has
established the
“ Victorian Progressive Medical Institute,”!
53, FLINDERS STREET, WEST, MELBOURNE,
for the scientific and effectual cure of all phases of Net-
voub Debility, Chronic and complicated Affections.
W Dr. Wright cures Fits, Spinal Complaints, Nervous,
Head, and Mind Affections, Sorofulous Humors,
Eruptions, Premature Decay, Incapacity for Study
or Business, Liver, Heart, Lung and Kidney Affec-
tions, Genito Urinary Disorders, and all morbid con-
ditions of the system. It matters not what your
troubles may be, oall or write to Dr. Wright, and get his
honest opinion of your complaint. If it is curable, he
will tell you so : if not, he will tell you also, for he will
not undertake a oase unless he is confident of effecting a
cure. It will cost you nothing for consultation, so satisfy
yourselves that the Dr. understands your oase.
g g CONFIDENCE ABSOLUTE.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at a distance.
N. 8.—1 wish it distinctly understood that Ido not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power.
I claim only to be a skilled and successful Physioian
thoroughly informed in my speciality.
Note Address—
PROGRESSIVE VESICAL INSTITUTE,
53, Flinders Street W., Melbourne.
MM No connection with any other Medical Institute in
Australia. Box 253, Q.P.Q.
Business Announcements,
Guiness’s Extra Stout,
FIRST QUALITY.
<6
Bass’s Pale Ale.
SOLE PURVEYORS to the
COLONIAL AND INDIAN EXHIBITION
LONDON.
By Speolal Appointment.
WHOLESALE AGENTS,
W. Balchin, Johnston & Go.,
Commercial Chambers, Bond-Street, Sydney.
Robert butcher & cot
have REMOVED their Wholesale Wine and
Spirit Business to
592 a GEORGE STREET
(Between Bathurst and Liverpool streets).
WINES, SPIRITS and BEERS, in and out' of
Bond at LOWEST RATES.
WTC can recommend the Imperial Hah
Cutting Saloon as the best in Brisbane.
Tobacco and Cigars of the best Brands. Address-
Temple Building, George►street (sis doors from
Queen’s-street). A, COOPER, Proprietor.
D"RID
FOOD
forINFANTS ino INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should geta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGES ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
s
BRONCHITIS, COUGHS
MA
m
T
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
pSW'lB'LTfiSytL
~innnn>rTTrfaW
6. STEPHENSON
HAS ON SALE-
WINE CASKS, BREWERS’ CASKS, VATS,
RUM, SHERRY, & WHISKY PUNCHEONS,
CHEESE VATS, CHURNS, STABLE
BUCKETS, &0.
COOPERAGE,
987 KENT STREET, and 174 SUSSEX STREET,
Between King and Market Streets.
kmucho *a& Wki«i«rj„
ntfom *'**•
atpyriaktut,,
. Boyd** Beard glue# did tnt* ,
irtwd mil do it o% either bald '
fit *aA or bar* fa**- S'Oroee
heavy MouitacM in from 2 ' .
4 weeks and never /'atft,2o,(JOir
yotiny men oCraodj/ wear full
Vownehim,
beards, having used Ito 8 pkta. yo injury, easily applied, o#r *>*•»■
in offset. Packets, I*. (id each jj for Ba, 6a.. poet paid, semi
eover, free from >Mrem s„ Vm*** KtoiugUM, <Bo**
Bos; ?«K <? INO\ *
s.
W ALDER, Tent, Tarpaulin, Oilskin Makes
880 PITT STREET,
Marqueea.oa.Hlr6
r ATKINSON’S >
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its lasting and natural
fragrance.
Three Gold Medals—
PARIS, 1878, CALCUTTA, 1884,
for pre-eminent excellence of quality.
GOLD MEDAL BOUQUET
ESS. BOUQUET I WOOD VIOLET
TREVOL 1 CH.YPRE
and other well-known Perfumes are un-
equalled tor their delightful andlastlng odour
ATKINSON’S EAU DE TOILETTE DE LONG RES.
Unsurpassed for refreshing and softening the
skin, and an exceedingly choice Perfume for
the Handkerchief. An entirely new article
prepared exclusively by the Inventors.
Of atl Dealers, and o> the Manufacturers—
J & E. ATKINSON,
21, Old Bond Street, London.
u Trade Mark—'‘White Koae” on “ Golden
w -“ A


ROYALMC^I
m
*4kiH 6
POWDER
Absolutely Pur© o
For quick baking. Raises bread, biscuits, rolls,
muffins, and all kinds of cake without the aid of
jreast, Baleratus, or cream of tartar, rendering
them lighter, sweeter, and more palatable and
wholesome. Avoids all decomposition of the flour
as caused by yeast rising, thereby saving a large
percentage of its most nutritive elements, making
the flour go one-fourth further. Food raised by
theßoyal Baking Powder may be eaten hot, even
by dyspeptics, with impunity. Maintains its full
strength in any climate, any length of time. En-
dorsed by the United States Government Chemists*
and by the leading physicians and hygienists of
America, and adopted for use by the United States
Government. Guaranteed absolutely pure and
wholesome. Sold only in tins. Royal Bakins
Powder Co., 106 Wall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Trade supplied by
MOSES MOSS & CO.,
New South Walks.
—XI.
impobjii oi
mr wiasrEis, bpibits, beers, &o_„ «
Georgs and Glpps Streets, Sydney.
BPBOIALITIESI
John Jameson’s Dublin Whisky (5 to 10 yean old); W. Jameson’s, Dunville’s, Roe’s, and Wise’s
d««. (°ld Cork) Whiskies. Hennessy’s, ’Martell's and Sazerac’s Brandies (5, 10, 15 and 21 years old).
The Choicest and Oldest Scotch Whiskies (in wood), imported and bottled by P.R.L.
tBT The best Port and Sherry Wines and Champagnes. t£T All brands of Colonial Wines.
The leading brands of Bottled Ale and Stout, arriving by monthly steamers.
Prince of Wales’ Hotel, 778 & 780 George-streef.
Wholesale and Single Bottle Departments, 782 and 784 fleorge Street, Sydney.
rn SEND FOR A PRICE LIST.
msT-iui; ladies’ imisiEi! non ui immi,
6IPPS STREET (opposite A. Hobdkbn & Sons).
Produce Stores * gipps street and darlinghurst road.
HEAD OFFICE—GIPPS STREET (next Prince of Wales’ Hotel).
WALLACH BROS.’
IST B3W
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, STYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
v Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITS PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLAOH BROTHERS.
warn, vide
For Artistic Posing and
«nmWnim softness and bruu» nu '
Photograph* 01
6HAILEMONT I »
ROYAL AROA«J,
STAND PRE^KMINKNTLIj^^
COLEMAHE &*f \
Eucalypti W*
YICTOKY
A Pure Extract from the
Awarded GOLD a#
beating all other c ° J^ibltloO'
Ist Prize Great Centennial J* jrf
Can be used for Consumption,^
ohitis, Rheumatism, Neuralgia.
and Gravel Complaints, Sprain*
Gout, etc. Posted to any a , fr jfjpsA' pi>*
assess
Bdin., i*-R.O.S-
DB
L.R.C.F.,
registered in Great Britain,
late surgeon to H.R.H- p ““
Resident Medical Officer b°th» t
London, specialist for the tre
md Heart Diseases, &o* «er*t- k
Consultation by
sharge, at Bdgar House,
Hunter-street Sydney. ___
A Blessing to everf
’B. theolvlM-*^
HH OLLOWAY’B PlWf. tue dV^jyfjSj
There is not a oountryin^dioioe*^,«
He healing virtues of these
eoognised by thousands ol
ihasers should lookj*®J^crd-itt*** l
If the address is not 588
ipurious.
WILLIAM BULLARD, 342 GEORGE BTB
BOOKS, STATIONERY, BOOK & SHEET MUSIC. NOVELTIES IN CHINA & GLASSWARE.
Fans. Easels, Brackets, Purses, Card Cases and Japanese Curios
BALL PROGRAMMES.
CARDS ENGRAVED OR PRINTED. PRINTING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
-Lilian. -A.. 2v£a,rs2i.a/Ll dz> Co.,
ENGINEERS, COPPER SMITHS, BRASS & BELL FOUNDERS,
FINISHERS, PLUMBERS, GASFITTERS,
SHIP & GENERAL SMITHS, ART & MEDIAEVAL METAL WORKERS.
Roller Skates, any make, with Brass or Wooden Wheels.
MT Agents for “ Verity’s ” Patent Gas Fires and Heaters at Greatly Reduced Prices.
Cheapest and most satisfactory fire in the market. Over 11,000 already in use.
Yacht and Boat Work of every description in Iron or Brass.
Ships’ SINGLE and DOUBLE Action Valve Closet. Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliances.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 MACQUARIE PLACE and STAN ORE ROAD, PETERSHAM.
INDIA RUBBER II AN U FACT
ERSKINE AND CLARENCE STREETS, SYDH*'*'
•g oo*
tot'
Rubber Valves, Washers, Gaskets, &0., &o. Moulded to any size. Rubber
Lists and Samples on Application
NERVOUS D E ¥ I **
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
1
t, Specialist' ln^gvos> l,l
[iF-COBE yOB
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of Bufferers. Addsess-
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbal"’ 1
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW »
$
Gh r l . PICKLES SOWS, Ca.rxieug'e ZB-u-il^ 0
tar
THE MOST EXTENSIVE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
City Repository:
Metropolitan Manufactory
5,
7,9, 11 LATROBE STREET WEST,
32, 34, 36 BRUNSWICK STREET, FI
ME L f
I COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY j
; NEW TABLE.—TONTINE POLICIES WITH GUARANTEED MORTUARY DIVIDENDS.—A POLICY UNDER THIS CLASS provides for TS|
PREMIUMS PAID being RETURNED as an ADDITION TO THE SUM ASSURED in the event of death within the Tontine Period or in the Event of Survival, F U
IN. TONTINE SURPLUS. K&" Branches in all the Colonies and in the United Kingdom.
LEA& PERRINS' SAUCE
■ ... . -»■ ■** t . ~ ' ■ • ■
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERS HlRj£
5.4 UCE which are calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and PtrrimM
have ia request that Purchasers see that the Label am etKty Settle
bears their Signature thusdm
Or
without ilihich 90 hot Ik of the original WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERRIftS* Sauer, and see Name on Wrapper, Label* Battle eatM
Stepper, Wholesale and for Export bp the Proprietors, Worcester t, Crosse ami
Blackwell, London, j&*A £ and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
i QOtfk l>Airfp Jte. .
tec been known for nearly 100 y«
[&» human hair; it is warranted
BJUtorerc are composed and v
s'* set in the hottest climates
fie Ming off or turning grey, strengthens weak urn*, XivT.kers t'i'lA (
hair seft, silky, curly and_ glossy; Jt also M-taSto# ss®**
Which, after g
children and
5t Is especially recommended for children as forming
soars also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR, r#,
at time and trouble, has been especially prepared for we w t
ror grey-haired adult*, Sizes 3s. Bd.; fs^; family bottle**
10s, 6d. ; and double that size, 21s.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR „ a healing and »®pd $
llhe face, hands and arms ; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema,
of the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc., and produces a
complexion. .
ROWLANDS ODONTO whitens the teeth, presents
strengthens the gums, and gives a delightful fragrance to the breasn- jjtm'
KOWLANDS’ articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, Ixsnaon, and avoid spun
admilar name* Hr. V u
Wholesale and Retail Agents —Elliott Bbos m and E, PbobB® b
WIESENER’S WATCHES!
WIESENER’S WATCHES
WIESENER’S
AYE proved a successlas Useful and Reliable Timekeepers these 20 years. The reliable lines of the cheaper class Watches (in sterling Silver and Gold cases only) are f u^5r jO oh 0^'
JE . JEand the Public can rely upon being served better and cheaper in the long run than in Ironmongers or Toy Shops, where the only aim can be “to get the
— " ..... *
03- JROTHERHAM and ENGLISH WATCH COMPANY’S SILVER, " ENGLISH "LEVERS from 70s.
£3T WALTHAM
jttememoerjthe Address —
T. F. WlESEMER, Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician, 334 George-street, Sydney (half-way between 1 Hunter-street and Po st
