

The Bulletin
Vol. 9—No. 436,
SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 1888.
Price,® 6d
Dibb s Has Resigned the N.S.W. Opposition Leadership.
PARKES (weeping on the neck of unspecified Ministerial Nobody): “ALAS! NO DIBBS, NO PREMIER PARKES. NO PREMIER
PARKES, NO DIBBS FOR ME!”


The Bulletin
lie National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
PROPRIETORS : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALKS.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to Wllliam MacleDd, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Correspondence" column all contributions submitted
ivhether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
Communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ive are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
fey sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
City The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
p oJßulLetCa.
SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 1888.
“The Verdict of the Microscopes.”
Whenever in the history of humanity the
external form out-lingers the needs and
uses of the internal essence, the senti-
mentalist, who is sometimes painfully
awakened to the cruel and inflexible incon-
gruities which make life one long falsehood
and all action a spasmodic series of lies,
takes hasty refuge in a world of idealities
and kicks high aloft the heels of his fancy in
a fool s paradise created of airy nothing in
the moonbeam regions of a mental land of
Beulah. He denies necessity, and hides
himself in the visionary chambers of his
magical thought-palace, worshipping the god-
dess of his ideal in secret, refusing to acknow-
ledge the actuality of clay. Sometimes with
eyes fixed on a chimerical futurity, his rapt
face glowing with a golden hope, his mouth
phrasing mellifluous sentences, he sings of a
gladder day for humanity, and chants the
dawn of a rose-hued millennium. His suffer-
ings find a voice in verse, and the world of
hard reality is the richer for a poet. Anon,
with burning eloquence from the platform of
a rostrum he lashes the vileness of the age,
and holds high to the gaze of men an ideal,
fancy-painted, which they could realise “an’
they would.” But he sorrowfully knows
they will not, and literature is enriched by a
rare gift of grand, but dreadful Cassandra-
prophecies. When your sentimentalist, with
his glowing fervid thoughts, turns his back
on experience, on history, and oil science,
and preaches the optimistic doctrine that
everything is admirably working with every-
thing else towards all that is good, beautiful,
and true, and that the only thing needed to
bring immediately about the day of universal
happiness is an Act of Parliament, humanity
has small cause for gratulation. His Act of
Parliament is granted, and soon discovered
to be but the provision of a new form lacking
■the essence which should have given it being.
He succeeds only in teaching men the futility
of hurry—ardour which has its origin in
an empty stomach and the need of a meal
suffers a quick relapse which fast crystallises
into apathy and mental slumber when the
physical need is satisfied. More, he flies in
antagonism at all the calm, clear intelligences
from whom alone real help can be gained for
the toiling millions.
• •
- Max Nordau, in his great, recent, sup-
pressed work, speaking of the pessimism of
the age, and the efforts made by the idealist
to escape it, says :
“ A dread of examining and comprehending the
actualities of life prevails to a frightfully alarming extent,
and manifests itself in a thousand ways. The means of
sensation and perception are eagerly counterfeited by
altering the nervous system by the use of stimulating or
narcotic poisons of all kinds, manifesting thereby an in-
stinctive aversion to the realities of appearances and cir-
cumstances. . . . Society . . . seeks oblivion of
the present, and grasps at anything that will provide it
with an escape from real life.”
But while sensualism seeks forgetfulness of
.the displeasing real in alcohol, tobacco, mor-
phiue, opium, chloral, ether, and a doztn
other narcotics and stimulating chemicals,
the culture of to-day flies for solace to the
past, and re-animates the beautiful forms of
the old Grecian world ; the metaphysical
philosophy of to-day bridges the gulf of
time with a span of thought which throws
one end of its arc at the feet of Socrates ;
the religious fervour of to-day drains the cup
of bitterness with Christ in the Garden of
Gethsemane, and mingles its tears with those
of Magdalene. “ Whatever is, is logical
and necessary,” exclaimed Hegel. “ This
state of things must abide and grow con-
tinually worse, so long as Istar holds her
way unchecked,” says Huxley. This is too
hard a saying for them, and too difficult o '
acceptation. And yet, if it be true, what i
the use of hugging a dim illusion to our
breasts ? That it is true, or so Hue that we
know of not a single authentic exception, al
history, all science, all individual experience
loudly proclaim. Emerson, that gentlest o '
idealists and tenderest of optimists, did no
dispute it. He once wrote :
“ Nature is no sentimentalist—does not cosset or pam
per us. We must gee that the world is rough and surly
and will not mind drowning a man or a woman ; bu ;
swallows your ship like a grain of dust. The cold, inoon
siderate of persons, tingles your blood, benumbs you
feet, freezes a man like an apple. The diseases, th
elements, fortune, gravity, lightning, respect no persons
The way of Providence is a little tude. The habit o
snake and spider, the snap of the tiger, and other leaper
and bloody jumpers, the crackle of the bones of his prey
in the coil of the anaconda—these are in the system, anc
our habits are like theirs. You have just dined, and
however scrupulously the slaughter-house is concealer
in the graceful distance of miles, there is complicity—ex
pensive races—race living at ihe expense of race. . .
Let us not deny it up and down. Providence has a wild
rough, incalculable road to its end, and it is no use to trj
to whitewash its huge, mixed instrumentalities, or to
dress up that terrific benefactor in a clean shirt anc
white neckcloth of a student in divinity.”
* » •«■
A few weeks ago The Bulletin published
a leader entitled “Protection—a National
Necessity,” based upon an article in the
February number of the Nineteenth Cen
tury on “ The Struggle for Existence ” by
Professor Huxley, and forthwith the
idealists buckled on their verbal mail, and
armed with a fervid imagination and
beautiful belief in the concreteness of brain
foam, sallied out to do battle with the odious
materialist. One of Professor Huxley’s
critics, in a really eloquent and well-written
article, manages to miss the point altogether
and deals with the final result of scientific
research as if it were a matter of choice anc
individual preference. In his inquiry into
the meaning and scope of “The Struggle
for Existence ” the Professor, for the pur-
pose of illustrating the operation of the laws
of food supply and population, pictured an
imaginary Atlantis ; but the Atlantis was no
more the Professor’s personal ideal com-
munity than Robinson Crusoe’s island—
used with so happy an effect by Henry
George to illustrate his theory of land-
tenure. Anyone who denominated the
Island of Juan Fernandez as “ HeN ry
George’s Atlantis ” would probably be in-
stantly denounced by a multitude of angry
Land Nationalisers as an exaggerated
lunatic, yet the critic in question
heads his eloquent and well-written, en-
thusiastic, albeit childish and silly
article, with the misleading title “Huxley’s
Atlantis.” Having set out under a miscon-
ception the writer begins to lash himself into
a veritable fury because the picture of Nature,
in her manifold operations, as sketched by
the Professor, is not sufficiently alluring.
He grumbles because Huxley refused to
look at Eternity through rose-tinted spec-
tacles. Idealist-like, he “believes in a pis-
tareen-Providence, which, whenever the
good man wants a dinner, makes that some-
body shall knock at his door, and leave a
half-dollar.” He likes his mud much begilt,
and querulously complains that the Dead
Sea apple of modern scientific knowledge,
given us by the great anatomist, is “without
even an alluring rind. ” He would have the
Yahoo carefully shaved and presented at
Court in a Windsor uniform. In the bour-
geois dream of saucepan-and-trencher feli-
city, Caliban must wear a wig and get his
coats built at Poole’s, Gabbett must eat
truffles with a napkin tucked under his chin,
and Frankenstein’s monster must have his
hair cut, and his teeth brushed night and
morning with odorous tincture of myrrh.
“My dear, we must be respectable and re-
peat a number of words beginning with the
letter ‘p,’” so that we may enter the eco-
nomical class-room with a pleasant expression
lingering on our philosophical, politico-
economical countenances. We must wear
“an alluring rind ” and not offend the pro-
prieties or the deity of impossible ideals
will arise and annihilate us.
* • *
“ What is truth ? ” said jesting Pilate ; and
would not stay for an answer. Huxley’s critic
does not want one, because he believes it
will be unpleasant. It has no “alluring
rind.” He chooses rather “the words of
Christ” than “the verdict of the micro-
scopes.” The enemy of truth is, in the
language of Bacon, “a natural though cor-
rupt love of the lie itself.” His critic is
annoyed with Huxley for “ measuring
human life with analogies, and apparently
spanning the destinies of man by those of
the animal and the vegetable. ” This is ever
the cry of the sentimentalist. Man is a
special child of Providence, an exception to
the inviolable laws that govern the starry
cycles of the Universe, a creature whose
entire history is but as the wink of a god’s
eye-lid, yet whose individual existence is
watched over by the brow-gemmed seraphim.
“ ‘Peace on earth ; goodwill to men’” is,
then, “idle babble”? demands the writer
in painful and impatient tones. We fear it
is! “At Naples . . . 10,000 persons
tv ere crushed in a few minutes. ” At Lisbon
an earthquake tilled men like dies. “The
scurvy at sea, the sword of the climate in the
west of Africa, at Cayenne, at Panama, ai
New Orleans, cut off men like a massacre.’
It is absurd protesting :
“ The force with which we resist these torrents of ten
deucy looks so ridiculously inadequate that it amounts to
little more than a criticism or a protest made by
minority of one, under compulsion of millions.”
We shall natheless resist, though we get no
reward of gilt mud, or apples of ashes with
“ alluring rinds ” as those of the Hesperides
garden. We shall natheless resist, for it is
better to eat the bread of banishment with
Aristides, and to drain the hemlock with
Socrates and Phocion, than to live with
Yolpone and to die with Dives.
•' * *
The hope held out to humanity by the
preachers of Land Nationalisation is based
on an appeal to individual selfishness. The
Bulletin would welcome the realisation of
the GEORGB-ian theories with acclaim, and
assist in bringing about their advent with
strenuous energy. But let there be no mis-
take ! Do not let us coin base metal and
delude ourselves into believing it to be gold !
Land Nationalisation is right 1 That is the
one ground for its advocacy. Land Monopoly
is wrong 1 It denies to man an equal right
in the soil of his country with the fortunate
forestalled thereof. On this ground alone
would we oppose it. As to whether stomachs
will be filled and mankind rendered perman-
ently happy we have no concern. And that
because hunger is an incentive to more crime
than virtue, and no permanent happiness is
possible for the mortal who Hits a brief passage
through a sad world of death and disease.
Alter the very central spring of the Cosmos,
and happiness may be attainable by man.
Arrest the process of constant decay and
change and we may exclaim to the fleeting
moment, in the conditions of Mephisto’s
contract with Faust, “ Linger with me, thou
that art so bright.” But it is not so ! Man
in his intellectual might can never set at
nought the laws which govern his physical
being. Huxley’s critics ask whether the
crystallised meaning of his deliverance is
that human existence is environed with the
same conditions as the lower forms of life ?
Whether in the difference between reason
and instinct exists any help save in increased
power to attack and defend ? If it be true
that nothing can be accomplished higher
than a triumph of force 'i Nothing even which
will be secure without perpetual watchful-
ness ? History saith much in confirmation
of Huxley —and nothing for the idealists !
♦
All modern society, law, religion, is
illogical. Every thing, every individual
event, every atom, is regarded as single and
isolated, the result of blind chance. Man is
supposed to have his own fate in his hands,
and antecedent events count for nothing ;
limitation and evolution are not recognised.
Modern society is not scientific ! It rests in
a hazy manner upon a vague belief in indi-
vidual responsibility. Even a horse is
punished for having criminal instincts, and
men are flogged for cerebral disease. Dar-
win has taught this generation nothing,
simply because, while it accepts his doctrines
intellectually, heredity is too strong for it,
and will not allow it to apply the lessons of
evolution to its social organisation. Every-
thing is practically adjudged and tested by
the empirical doctrine that man possesses
absolute freedom of will. He chooses to
listen to the words of Christ. He refuses
to heed the “verdict of the microscopes.”
He will not have Truth unless it be coated
with sugar-candy and covered with “an
alluring rind.” And this doctrine of Free
Will is so absolutely in defiance of every
scientific fact that it is hardly necessary to
recall Buckle’s curt remark that it “rests
on the metaphysical dogma of the supre-
macy of human consciousness.” This in-
volves two assumptions : “Of which the
first, though possibly true, has never been
proved ; and the other is unquestionably
false.” These assumptions are : “ That
there is an independent faculty called con-
sciousness, and that the dictates of that
faculty are infallible.” Yet it is not known
that consciousness is a faculty ; indeed, it
may be merely a state or condition of the
mind ; and should this be so, the argument
falls to the ground. The second assump-
tion is too puerile to be worthy examina-
tion. And this is the basis from which
those argue who oppose the teachings of
science with sentiment and preferences.
Man exempt from the laws which govern
the Universe ! Shade of Euclid, Huxley’s
critic flies in the face of the ninth axiom :
“ That the whole is greater than its part.”
With extreme irascibility he exclaims :
“ In the meantime let Professor Huxley stick to his
own department. Let him glare at animalcule through
magnifying glasses, and tell us all about it, but for Istar’s
sake let him shut up about political economy, if he wants
us to have any respect at all left for ancient mythology.'
Probably the Professor cares little for ancient
mythology, or the reverence it may inspire in
the minds of his petulant and sentimental
critics. It seems also a work of supereroga-
tion to obey a man who advises you to glare
at animalcule through magnifying glasses,
and who prefaces his request with a refusal
to take “ the verdict of the microscopes.”
And that is what it all amounts to.
Istar queens it amongst the animal-
cuke much as she queens it amongst
men and constellations. She holds
her sway amid the beings that build
their houses on the enamel of our teeth,
and she selects her victims from the
life-forms that crowd or hurry through a
drop of human blood—-or the blood of bulls
or of gcats, for Nature does not worry into
which rift she shall pack her energy. Ac-
cording to Professor Ray Lank ester, the
white blood-corpuscle, the minute cell of
protoplasm which floats in the vital fluid of
man, has as great, or greater, a battle for
existence, as the lordly creature through
whose veins it pulses life. The deadly bac-
teria are ever at hand, and protection and
free-trade, land nationalisation and universal
suffrage, cruel battle and hideous strife, are
going on incessantly. All the fierce problems
that rack the social organism are working out
their evolution in a single drop of blood,
“ Struggle is the law of life”
“ Everywhere, even in our own hearts’ blood, eternal
vigilance, prompt resistance to hurtful intruders, ruthless
destruction of evil, are the conditions of existence. Life
depends upon the readiness of the corpuscle to destroy
the germ.” J
To ‘ ‘ glare at animalcuhe through magnifying
glasses” is simply to gaze upon Nature in a
mirror—a microcosm of the Cosmos. But
those who prefer the golden phrases of some
delicate and old-time fable, beautiful, per-
haps, but untrue and impossible, not only
will not, they can not, accept the truth—
u the verdict of the microscopes.”
Britain’s Ability to Protect.
The Age, the other day,'characterised the present
relations existing- between Great Britain and
the colonies as “ a condition of affairs which
combines the fullest powers of local self-
government with the sense of dignity and security
oy 1 ■ 1 e connection with a mighty empire. ”
ihis sounds martial, though the clarion be some-
what cracked, and a wheeze of anxiety is heard
through the defiance of the warlike blast. There
is on every hand such appalling proof of England’s
decadence that any connection subsisting between
her and Australia can to the latter hardly be pro-
of a sense either of <( dignity ” or
security.” The warning words of the philo-
sopher, the elaborate proof of the scientist, the
foresight of the statesman, the bitter taunts of
foreign powers, the squabbles between military
officials and heads of departments, the utter cor-
ruption and demoralisation, obvious even at a dis-
tance of 10,000 miles, in every arm of defence ;
the lack of sentiment and solidarity amongst the
P e °P l( ; 5 the discontent of Ireland and of India,
and of the working and pauper classes throughout
the Empire ; the correlative examples which logic
quotes and applies from the history of the past to
the symptoms of the present; all seem to lack
cogency or import to the feeble reason of the
lory, who, with maundering speech and lack-
tustre eye, will thrust his head out of the ruins of
the Universe, and, with his voice stifled with the
debris of Creation, blab about the pomp and
majesty and so on of the great British Empire
upon which the sun never sets.
*
It is impossible to reason with these fond self-
gratulatory fools who glide through the gates of
lime into the very corridors of Eternity com-
placently hugging the fictions that passed current
hundreds of years ago, before civilised man
learned to eat with a fork. The British Empire
was never in so terrible a strait as at present-.
Li ke that of Rome under the rule of Valentint
it is threatened from every quarter. Disruption
is imminent—it has, indeed, already begun. 3Jhe
revolt of the American colonies, and the s> pgess-
ful efforts made by them to establish theije inde-
pendence by force of arms, constituted the usher -
ing in of the period of decay. Canada "e,held, in
thrall by the weakest of ties. British rule in
India is menaced by Russia, and thYpew; con-,
tinent of Australia is beginning tp, talk of
nationality, independence, and anfagonistic in-
terests. If England were to-morrow. sunk beneath
the waves, her fame, her greatness, and, her proud
traditions would live-on in the children—too often’
rudely thrust out of their parent’s door —in whose
veins flows English blood, and whose history
begins with the descent of Hengi'st and Hobsa
on the coast of Kent. But the contention that
the England of to-day, the little island awai,
north in the German Ocean, is the England of ,
Harry the Fifth, of Shakespeare, of M
borough, even of Wellington and Nelsqs, is
such a vaulting piece of assumptive folly that it
hardly merits serious consideration. Enghpid has
disseminated her vitality. She has spread her ’
vigour over the face of the earth. You cjpanot wit
your cake and have it too. Besides, nationsyas ,
men, cannot live on for ever. Tf proof were *
wanted, proof is forthcoming in overwhelming
volume. Times of panic and threatening.? of war
bring forth in all their garish unpleasantness the
evidences of national weakness and decay.
The colonial Press blinks the. fact-. It is sou
unpleasant to know that one’s, mother is getting
too old to protect one from the assaults of the bigg-
boy in the next yard. But tire fact must bee
faced. This England is now in receipt of, tine
pity and condolence of Europe. Its own chiefs
dolefully shake their heads and bewail the loss of
national grandeur. Its own Press proclaims
loudly, albeit sorrowfully, to a waiting and watch-
ful world that England is nqi, the England of so
short a time as 50 years ago. England trembles
now at the Rower of China ; 30 years since China
lay in the dust at England’s feet compelled to accept
any conditions her conqueror might care to im-
pose, even to the traffic in a drug that stole away
the souls'of her Mongol subjects. A little farther
back than 30 years from now, the power of Eng-,
laiid was potent enough to assist in bringing the
-Muscovite to his knee ; to-day the Cossack exer-
cises his horse and yells his strange war-cry of
defiance on the very frontiers of the British
Empire. And thougli the crass Englishman who
emigrated before the “ sixties ” knows .nothing of
the march of events, or is so saturated with British
bigotry as to refuse to learn, the English them'
selves feel acutely, and pathetically confess, their
grief and troubled forebodings of the black-looming
future. Within the past twenty days cablegram
upon cablegram has flooded in from London. Each
of these items of information is in the English
tongue, sent by Englishmen in England to English-
men in Australia, yet they breathe not a single
sigh of hope, not one stout word of courage.
France, Russia, Germany, Austria, Italy, even
tiny Bulgaria and decrepit! Turkey, bluster, storm,
rave, and belch defiance and shout war ! Only the
commercial and second-rate trr hug countries are
silent. England alone weeps despondently and
arms herself half-hearted for the fray, losing a
battle before it has been fought.
Nothing is more significant than the fact that
England herself has pretty thoroughly made up.


her mind that the struggle is practically over
before it has actually begun. The London Daily
Telegraph admitted the other day that the
country was absolutely in a state of danger ; that
the British army was practically without arms ;
that soldiers were being supplied with the worst
small-arms hi the world instead of the most
modern breech-loaders carried by the other troo
of Europe. Along the coast the warships we
without guns or ammunition, and their genera
equipment was both defective and deficient,
day or so later at a meeting of bankers ant
merchants characterised by the colonial pre
with unconscious irony “ England’s Warli
Awakening’’—Lord Charles Berebford, a hig
authority on all matters touching naval equipmei
an official who had resigned his seat in t
Ministry because he regarded the administratio
of his department as suicidal, declared that hew
pleased to see that “ the country was awakening
—not to a determination to assert the militar
Vigour of England as the colonial Press won
have us suppose—“to the fact that the fleet w
inadequate and that an invasion at that momen
would be a severe blow to the Empire.” The Ac
jutant-General was the while engaged in quarre
ling with the head of the Government, and, in rep
to the latter’s strictures on his conduct, Lore
Wolseley said in the House of Lords that 1
considered the army and navy to be alarming
weak, and the defences both at home and abroar
defective and unsatisfactory as regarded equi
ment and organisation. From his personal know
ledge of the defence-works he was unable
guarantee the safety of the city of London in ca
of attack by way of the Thames, and when 1
contemplated the existing state of affairs he fe
tempted to resign his high position in the Britis
forces.
• * *
Yet the Tory quidnuncs of Australian sojoun
ng would have us believe, in the face of such hig
authority, that the power which is wbak in th
defence of its own capital, would be strong in th
defence of Melbourne, Sydney and Brisban
Rather we court danger by belonging to the Em
pire at all at such a critical juncture. Th
Gaulois, a French paper, uncompromising
maintains that the colonies are the only vulne
able point in the defence of the Empire. The
are, at least, the most vulnerable, and we show
now be more at ease without the broad fact o:
being British dependencies staring us in the fac
Even the Duke of Cambridge, an old man wh
does not know what actual warfare means anc
who might, therefore, be easily imposed upon by
grim surface of painted strife, is terrified out o
whatever wits he possesses. He is so well-know
to be thoroughly acquainted with the complet
rottenness of the British army, and so well-know
also to unconditionally condemn it, that he wa
actually asked whether he had supplied th
material for the article which appeared in th
London Daily Telegraph.
* * #
In another direction we have an example of th
complete lack of patriotism and solidarity in th
British nation. An example which more tha
anything emphasises the sordid and unprinciplec
commercialism of a power which when it war
wars to protect the vile interests of usurers anc
traffickers in human poison. The “great’’Em
pire is on the eve of a bloody contest, and a grea
business firm of its own citizens, for the sake of
money consideration, continue to supply France
a possibly active foe, with heavy ordnance t
the exclusion of an order given by the Britis
Government. Everywhere, through all depart
rnents, squabbles, jealousies, and selfishness rule
Patriotism and self-sacrifice are no longer Britis
virtues. High officials dispute about trifles at
moment of national crisis. The relations betweei
the Commander-in-Chief, the Adjutant-Genera
and the Secretary for War are seriously strained
The Premier is in open public conflict witli th
leaders of the troops. Yet with a delicious anc
scathing irony the St. Petersburg NowosTi.ac
cuses England of pursuing an aggressive policy.
• * *
England’s embarrassment is so terrible that sh
begins to descend to all sorts of trickery to fenc
her troubles. A Naval Force Tribute Bill is did
died under various pretences through the differen
colonial Houses of Parliament, although Mr
Gosohen unblushingly admits that the com
merce of the colonies is carried chiefly in Eng
lish bottoms. Lord Charles Beresford, with
an eye for further military assistance from Aus
tralia and a keen sense of the power of flattery
eulogises the conduct of the New South Wales
Contingent in the Soudan escapade, and James
M. Maclean, M.P. for Oldham in the Britisl
Commons, confesses that he is glad that the
colonies responded so heartily, and recognised their
responsibility in the event of war by so almost
unanimously passing the Naval Force Tribute
Bill. Here is a lot of evident anxiety to drag
somebody into the affair, and to prop up the
weakness of England by the little strength that
may be borrowed from the colonies. Imme-
diately after all this evidence of weakness Lorci
Carnarvon fatuously inquires in the House ol
Lords as to whether the Government intend to
restrict foreign cruisers from entering colonial
harbours. That the colonies are really considered
an important factor in the matter is shown in the
article of the London Morning Post on the
Chinese Question in Australia, in which it depre-
cated any conflict between England and the
colonies, as it would only result disastrously for
the former and be fraught with danger to the
Empire.
* * *
Lord Randolph Churchill, who resigned his
seat in the Ministry on account of corruption in
the fulfilling of army contracts, only the other
day again adversely criticised the condition of
bAh army and navy, and England has grown so
weak in the latter arm of the service that Sir
James Fergusson found it necessary to deny that
England and Italy had entered into a joint naval
treaty in which provision had been made for the
fleets of both countries to act in concert in the
event of any occasion arising. Thus the power
that erstwhile ruled the waves has grown so impo-
tent that it is now hinted she is on the verge of
accepting aid from Italy. That the meaning of
all this is plainly gauged by the other European
powers is readily seen in the fact that the Austrian
press severely censures Wolseley for exposing
his country’s weakness to the eyes of the world ;
bu% unfortunately, the weakness itself is too
apparent to be disproved. Only a few days ago
Admiral Sir G. T. Phipps Hornby, in a
lecture before the London Chamber of Commerce,
s id that it was imperative to get in readiness a
g -eater number of fast cruisers, which, should war
tweak out, would be instantly required to protect
the merchant-shipping, and the numerous coaling-
stations of the Empire, At the same meeting
Lord Carnarvon declared that some scheme of
co operation between mercantile-shipping firms and
the. Naval Department for the protection of
British commerce was imperative. General Sir
Andrew Clarke, R.E., on another recent occa-
sion also urged the Home Government to engage
more fast steamers as cruisers for protection, in
the event of war, of the mercantile shipping-trade.
♦ _
Such is the terrible state of internal decay and
unpreparedness, that at a recent panic on the
stock exchanges, when the war-cloud seemed to
stoop low and to stifle the breath, and one could
almost hear the scratching' of the match which
would light the fuse of the first gun, Lord Salis-
bury called loudly on the volunteers of England,
for in their patriotism and in their courage the
fate of the Empire was. True, although ill-ad-
vised ! The army of England numbers a little
short of 200,000 men all told, against the armed
and disciplined millions of warlike Europe. The
Irish people are in arms against a coercive Go-
vernment ; within the boundaries of London
itself is more awful contrast between the extremes
of barbarous wea’th and sickening poverty than
in any other similarly populated area in the world :
the starving masses are kept back in their slums
only by baton and bayonet; the Indian troops are
nob to be relied on; and the central seat of
Government is embroiled in misunderstandings
with its Australian outposts through the compli-
cations which have arisen in connection with the
Chinese question. Still, the colonial Tory, who
has learnt nothing fresh since emigrating in the
“fifties,” stalks proudly down Collins-street,
Melbourne, or Queen-street, Brisbane, or Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, maundering between liba-
tions of Conservative hot-punch, about the eternal
freatness and majesty of the British Empire,
le fails to see that, instead of a source of
strength in time of trouble the Imperial connec-
tion is a source of terrible weakness.
In Australia we are treated witli much of this
fanfaronade. The Australian press was seized
with violence, and filled the air with hysterical
shrieking anent “England’s warlike awakening,”
when Berksl’oHD told some bankers and shoddy-
goods exporters that he was pleased to see them
beginning to be ashamed of themselves and their
country. The other day the Moscow Gazette
stated in all seriousness that England was standing-
on the brink of ruin; that she was weak unto
death and had ceased to be a warlike power and
that henceforth she must lie content to remain
a peaceful commercial state. Thereat the Sydney
D.T. laboured hard to prove that England was
never in a better condition to defend herself than
now. This is an obstinate shutting of the eyes to
the whole course of everything that exists in
Nature. It is a deaf ear turned to all the teachings
of history. Spain, Holland, Rome, Greece,
Turkey, the Saracenic empire, ancient India,
Persia, were all once great and warlike powers
whose day and generation has ended. Nations like
men have their period of growth, of adolescence
and decay. England ha's filled up the measure of
childhood, youth, maturity, and seems now unable
to maintain a strong and green old age. Vitality
is not a thing of perennial growth or a question of
international sympathy. The stock cannot be
increased, but much may be done to exhaust it
before the normal time. The colonial Tory is
pleased to ignore all this, and with stiff-necked
security, ostrich-like, thrusts his neck in the sand
of ignorant assumption and imagines that all is
peace. However, it needs but a single reverse of
British arm's in the event.of a war to dispel the
illusion and induce a fear and trembling that shall
find no balm of Gilead in a national and Australian
sentiment, for our only way of helping Great
Britain in her hour of need is the helping of our-
selves to an independent status as a nation long
enough to enable us to conserve our national energy
before she wants our help.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Consular Logic.
United States Consul Griffin, speaking at th
recent Centennial Consular dinner at Sydney
said that although he was a Republican and re
presented a Republic that did not prevent him
from admiring what was great and noble in othe
lands, and he then endeavoured to justify th
existence of monarchical institutions by quoting
the fact that “many fine political characters,
“ pure and unswerving patriots, and eloquent ad
vocates for the cause of social progress,” hac
grown up in “ countries governed by kings am
emperors.” Shade of Aristotle, and this is
logic ! One might as well justify the burglar's
existence because he had a son who did not steal
or the drunkard’s because his daughter was
member of the Blue Ribbon Army. These fine
“ political characters, ” these “ pure and unswerv
ing patriots and eloquent advocates for the cause
of social progress,” were not estimable for living
beneath a monarchical form of government but
because they opposed it. By the same mode
of reasoning, the Constitution of the United
States is a- fraud and a failure, because
it once produced a snide political adven-
turer like Aaron Burr, or a desperate and blood-
thirsty ruffian like Captain Slade, the trans-
continental mail-agent. In another part of his
speech the Consul informed his audience that,
according to philosophy and science, nothing comes
into being unless it is caused to be by the play of
existing powers, and that in competition nothing
survives except that which is best adapted to its
environment. Precisely, but what survives is not
necessarily also what is best. Nature has not dis-
continued her operations, and the wheels of the
Universe have not ceased to grind, and the Consul
must wait until the final act in the cosmical
tragedy before delivering his criticism on the play.
The drama is only now in its prologue. What
ultimately survives may be a cross between a
phyllopod crustacean and a Lamellibranchiate
mollusc, after all the men, women, children and
consuls have disappeared from the frozen bosom
of the earth, and even then mayhap Mr. Griffin’s
ghost will murmur impalpable platitudes to the
shades of defunct consuls at an unsubstantial
banquet of goblin viands dispensed by spooks in
dress-coats ; and he will point triumphantly to his
little theory about the survival of the fittest. The
“ fittest,” dear Consul, is not necessarily the best,
and the thing most adapted to its environment
will, from the very wording, be evil if the environ-
ment be evil. Virtue cannot breathe the air of a
bagnio. Yet again; you say that in competition
nothing survives that does not fulfil the conditions
of its entourage. True, patriots and philanthro-
pists are always sent to the wall—or the shambles.
Christ and Socrates, Galileo and Robert Em-
mett, were done to death by the blind force of
that exacting entourar/e with which they had no
sympathy. Snakes and crocodiles, mosquitoes and
members of Parliament, king's, popes, emperors, and
book-canvassers survive. The latter are the natural
outcome of “ the play of existing powers the r
environment is salubrious; they like it, and i;
agrees witli them. Survival of the fittest, is it
Look well to the plea when the heads of yoi
friends, the kings and the emperors, are rollin
about in the chariot-way of Progress, and don’;
“ turn dog ” on the inevitable !
+
-Wy Bays, Remember Crecy!"
1\ Brisbane one day last month that unconsiderec
trifle. Governor Musgrave, addressed himself t
the Grammar School boys, and filled them u
once again with the old slow-dried cram about th 1
glory of their ancestors, and the romantic er
when the early fathers of the race got themselve
up in hammered brass and rail way-iron and wen ;
out to slay and be slain at Crecy and Poictiers anc
Agincourt. Then he went on to talk of th
glorious day when half Europe shouted exultantl
at Waterloo, and dilated on the great men wh
dragged bits out of each other on that occasion
and finished up by telling the boys that if the
kept up their muscle and screamed for the Quee i
they might one day go and do likewise. Natur
ally enough the boys applauded—they would hav
done the same, for that matter, at a dog-fight—an
possibly a-few of them believed in the Governor
words, and longed to be like their fathers an
holler for England in some bloodthirsty hippo
drome. We are sorry to undeceive these boys
but it can t very well be helped—these coppei
fastened barons weren’t their fathers, not by
long way. The patent unsinkable warriors o
Crecy and Agincourt are extinct, and their d<
scendents, when they weren’t all beheaded, ar
mostly selling prawns by the quart or earning
precarious existence by retailing coals at so muc i
the alleged cwt. Some of'them are in the circu
way, and some are wheeling dirt in hand-barrows
and a larg'e number are supported by thei ■
mothers, and live in damp attics, and many
are in gaol. - Similarly, the sons of the officer
who fought at Waterloo are now servin
largely as prison-warders and plain cooks
and a grateful country has forgotten them. Som
of them have been hanged and some are sleeping
in boilers on Brisbane wharf. The ancestors o
young Australia those of them who were ass
enough to be at Waterloo at all—were mostk r
plain Browns and Thompsons who fought fo
a day and two meals that a respectable dog
would shy at. They were flogged punctually anc
generously and with energy, and when their arm
and legs had been blown off they were sent to the
workhouse, where they slept ten together in one
dirty room and got a scanty supply of thin grue
c till they died. Those who had only one arm or
one leg blown off were turned out to beg and then
put in prison for begging, and knocked about on
the head and. other parts by the keys of the
warders; and only the most fortunate of them
lived to be killed off by the potato-famine anc
other public events of a like character. The
ancestors of the present nobility didn’t fight much
but they served their country nobly by supplying
the army with paper boots and hoop-iron artillery
and they lent money to kings who were up the
spout, and married the shady ladies whom the
monarch* had cast off. It doesn’t pay any lavish
percentage to serve our Gracious Queen in the
tented field, and if the Brisbane Grammar School
boys want to find themselves without shirts in
their old age they cannot do better than keep a
steady eye on the heroes who fought at Agincourt
and then go and do likewise.
liiclU'Sls, tl»c Trap,
Last Saturday the N.S.W, Anti-Chinese League
and the Sydney Trades-unions held a demonstration
against the Chow, and various banners were un-
furled to a dust bespangled breeze and rough car-
toons were outspread upon trollies, and decrepid
carts dragged their painful way along, groaning
beneath the weight of plaster-casts. The banners
bore various mottoes not unconnected with Sir
Henry Parkes and the Chinese question. The
cartoons represented said Parkes brandishing a
club and Djbbs in the dress of a Mongolian with
the legend, “We are with you, Harry.” The
plaster-casts were rough imitations of the shaggy
mane and Broughamic nose of the man from
Brummagem, and one we saw was ornamented with
a blue rosette nailed upon its hollow breast. Evi-
dently Sir Foreign-trader Park es was held in high
honour by the demonstrationists, yet what lias,he
done to deserve it ? Until the public swarmed into
the lobby of the House lie neglected valuable op-
portunities and wasted valuable time, and then,'
yielding to popular clamour, h< attempted to set
aside the laws of the country a.pd secure
the applause of the unthinking by threatening to
defy the judges of the Supreme Court and engaging
in cowardly acts of the most flagrant illegality.
He further attempted to indemnify his Govern-
ment by whirlwind legislation and to beat down
opposition by vituperation and coercion. On the
day that the daily press of Sydney published
Parkes’ incendiary speech on the occasion of the
second reading of the Chinese Restriction Bill
The Bulletin appeared with a sub-leader on
“Parkes the Patriot,” in which he was accused of
cowardice, and the public concluded that for once
The Bulletin had made a mistake in its estimate
of the Old Parliamentary Hand. A few days
afterwards, however, he justified all that had
been levelled against him by miserably backing
down and eating all las high-falutin and in-
flammable flapdoodle. Even his own organ, the
Sydney D.T., turned savagely upon him and
accused him of cowardice and vacillation. But
before eating the ashes of his own fiery rhetoric,
Sir Henry Parke,s placed upon record
piece of evidence which terribly emphasise
his paltering and equivocating character. H
lac given instructions to Iris subordinate, Sub-In
spector Hyam, not to allow any of the Chines
passengers on board the Afghan and Tsinan
land on New South Wales soil. The Suprem
Court of the “colony” issued writs of hahea
CO7-2JUS upon the Sub-Inspector, demanding tl
bodies of his prisoners. In a quandary, th
policeman appealed to his official head, and h
official head, with lachrymose intonation an
querulous deprecation, said that he had no fres
instructions to give him, yet, at the same time, h
had no desire to come into collision with tli
Supreme Court, thus dismissing his subordinate t
settle with himself between his duty to Parke
and his obedience to the decree of the Court. Th
possible alternative lay between the “sack” and
the gaol, and Mr. Hyam chose the “sack.” If
wasn t discharged from the “foorce, ” however
but for a few hours the fate of Australia and tli
balance of power lay in the hands of a policeman
Verily, the police are coming to the fore with
vengeance ! The modest arrester of the festiv
drunk is now the censor morum of the Press
the critic of belles lettres, the wielder of the swou
of destiny, the spinner of the thread of fate. Lik
i ooh-Bah, his functions are multiplying, but i
we want to be ruled with decision we must sene
mm to I arliament and make of him a Premier.
+.
The Parson ami the Jmlge.
The Melbourne Daily Telegraph, a leaden
fined and hly-hvered production characterised by
pietism clothed in the vapid verbiage that passe
current among the “unco’ guid” as eloquence
rises in its sacerdotal nrght to denounce Judge
Williams for giving to mankind in the column
of an evening contemporary his views on “ separa
tion, federation, the Chinese question, and thing
in general. J In the dulcet diction of the parsoni
cal charmer, Mr. Justice Williams lias laid aside
the judicial wig, descended “from the serene
heights of the Supreme Court Bench,'
and committed the unpardonable sin o
evidencing the possession of a brain. Per
haps the Melbourne D.T. is of opinion tha
a judge should be merely a machine for evolving
savage sentences and illustrating the quality o
mercy by its absence in his composition. At al
events, the hymnal compilation of revival drive
in question never censures Judge Williams when
under the pallium of his official robes and beneatl
the sanctified covering of a wig, he excoriates the
mental back of the community by lavishly serving
out inhuman sentences involving long terms o
soul-destroying incarceration, enlivened 'by the
tuneful swish of that latter-day ally of allegec
Christianity the lash. Then, he is a judge
shadowed by all the grovelling traditions o
j 1 , 1 ? caste, ls , head aureoled around by the
judicial wig,’ seated on the “serene heights
ot the Supreme Court Bench.” But when he
asserts his rights to utter an opinion concerning
questions, more pregnant of good and ill to ;
future mighty people than the seaming and cut
ting ot a miserable convict’s flesh, the D.T arises
m holy horror to protest against the “ breach of
official etiquette.” He, then, in the language of
the clerical organ, becomes a mere citizen who
proclaims “ his political views from the street-
corner ’ and makes a breach in that “ unwritten
law of propriety and good taste ” from the “sum-
mit of the Town Hall clock.” Which is all rub-
bish . It is the old argument re-dished that a
policeman or a Civil servant has no right to exer-
ciss the franchise. As if the policeman and the
Civil servant ceased to be men as soon as they be-
came officials. As if they had notpiolitical sympathies
even though they were debarred from exercising
them. Again, not only the Civil Service, but all
Government officialdom, is popularly supposed to
be lecruited from the most intellectually-cultured
of the community. Why, then, should the com-
munity be denied the benefit, if any, likely to
accrue to it from the political exercise of that in-
tellectual and fostered ability ? What must he
the condition of a State in which its presumably
best minds are perforce silent? Is it fitting that
the judge should be gagg'ed where the most ig-
norant are the most clamorous ? That the best
intelligence should be stifled where the unem-
ployed and illiterate “bummer” is allowed free
speech? And tiffs absurd twaddle about the
“serene heights,” &c. ! Is the law above the in-
stitution that makes and - amends it ? We
have no sympathy with certain recent acts
of Judge Williams . We consider that
practically did descend , from the “ serene
heights” of impartial justice when he al-
lowed his coolness in sentencing prisoners to
evaporate, and lent by his judicial utt( ranees an
aspect of savagery and bravoish revenge to the
cjlcl and marble features of unirapassioned retri-
butiqn. But when Judge Williams, in persuance
ot his right as a free man in a free country, tells
us that the separation of Australia from Great
Britain will take place “as surely as the sun will
rise to-morrow, ’ and that a contrary opinion is
“one which no man can reasonably or honestly
believe, ” we can only commend his clear-sighted-
ness and independence. W hen he informs a
listening Australia that “an irresistible law of
evolution makes separation inevitable, ” we are in-
clined to endorse the somewhat rueful remark of the
Jji., that it will tend to give the outside world
the opinion “that the policy of separation has
some genuine following behind ib in this colony ’
and to wish that-more of the gentlemen wl o
sustain “a great judicial office ” would come from
behind the ermine pall of authority and speak the
truth, “ impugn it whoso list.” Were the example
of Judge Williams followed throughout the
Austrahas, an impetus would be given to the
National movement that all the parsons out of
Heaven or qf England would be powerless to
resist, and all the homilistic diatribes of the
Melbourne D.T. too feeble to influence. When
the judge strains the beautiful charity of the creed
of Christ, let the journalistic parson preach his
sensational sermon in the columns of whatsoever
paper he lilies, and we will reprint it. But this
will he never do, for the whisli of the cat and the
creak of the g’allowis fit too well the worship of
latter-day Mammon.
Thomas Jones and Edward Scarlett for
assaulting and robbing an old man named Fer-
guson, were awarded at the recent Sydney Quarter
Sessions 14 years penal maximum
penalty prescribed by the law. This is quite
right-! The youths in question were said to be
notorious and incurable larrikins; they brutally
maltreated an old man, and the administrators of
our laws have decided that they are not fit to be
at large. This is logical; whereas flogging would
not have been. lor the man who is dangerous
when at large there is but one treatment—perpetual
imprisonment.


History of Botany Bay.
One of the most difficult of the twelve
labours of Hercules was the slaying of the
hydra. Whenever the son of Alcmena
crushed one of the seven heads of the reptile
of the Lerncean lake, several others grew in
its 1 place. Then he bethought himself of
smearing with pitch the place of the heads
as he destroyed them, and soon the ‘ ‘ loathly
worm ” was discomfited. The task that lay
before Sir Richard Bourke on his arrival
was an equally difficult one. If he did not
perform it so thoroughly it was only because
his powers were not Hei’culean, and because
the labour was too great for any one man.
* * *
Major-General Bourke was born in the
year the colony was founded, and had servec
in the Peninsula, as Avell as in Holland anc
South America. He was Lieutenant-Go
vernor at the Cape for six years before he
came to Botany Bay. Before entering
the army he was educated for the Bar, anc
it is, perhaps, due to this fact that his rule
in New South Wales was not marked by any
of the narrow obstinacy and usual crass-
ness of the professional soldier. He seems
to have forgotten for the time his drum-head-
and-triangle traditions, if he had ever been
influenced by them, and set his face againsi
their perpetuation in the colony. He dealt
liberally with the people, and readily recog-
nised the simple justice of their demands.
He sympathised, too, with their aspirations
after free institutions, and entered into the
spirit which led them to look into the future
for the destiny of the settlement growing up
round them. Of course such a Governor £as
this was a pre-ordained victim to the Tested
Interest class from the start. But though
this class triumphed in the end, it was not
until he had set a force in motion that might
be temporarily stayed, but never finally
stopped until its work was done.
One of the most important acts of Governor
Bourke’s term of rule was the granting of
the complete right of trial by jury. This
was directly due to the Governor himself.
We have seen how Judge Forbes directed
the empannelling of the first civil jury in
1824, and how through the machinations of
the obstructive class the reform was defeated
by the fact that the sheriff placed no names
of members of the Emancipist class on his
list. The appeal was dismissed on a techni-
cal point, and nothing more was officially
heard of the matter until Bourke opened it
up again. During the last years of Darling’s
term the Patriotic Association called the
people together on several occasions in
public meeting to address the Throne on the
subjects of self-government and trial by
jury. The two matters were taken to-
gether. _ Thus on the anniversary of
the foundation of the colony, in 1827,
a meeting was held at the Court House
at which Wentworth spoke in support of a
petition proposed for adoption. “ The first
topic contained in the petition, ” he said,
“is a request for trial by jury. A great
part of the population is held not eligible to
sit as jurors. We urge that if it were more
extended in the colony its beneficial effects
would be most generally known.” Sir
J ames Macintosh presented this petition to
the House of Commons, as already stated.
In 1829 an Act of Council established juries
in civil cases, and next year another meet-
ing was held to prepare a popular petition.
In 1831, when news arrived of the accession
of William IV., the usual loyal and charac-
teristically vapid address of the colonists
contained at least.one paragraph that meant
something. It was, a request that the new
King would extend to the only colony of
Great Britain bereft of the rights of Britons,
a full participation of the benefits and pri-
vileges of the British Constitution. This
was inserted in the petition by an amend-
ment on the original address.
• * *
In this manner the way was prepared for
some decisive step. The condition of the
lower classes and the masses excited the
sympathy of Governor Bourke from the
first. When most of his predecessors
had been either actively tyrannical or
passively acquiescent, Bourke at once
made earnest and open efforts to turn
the tide. , One by one he scotched the
hydra’s heals, and he succeeded in all but
completely strangling the convict system.
In 1833, the Governor himself proposed a
Bill in the Legislative Council, declaring
Emancipists qualified to serve on criminal
juries, provided they possessed £3O of yearly
income, or personal property to the amount
of £3OO. He referred this measure to the
three judges who then held seats on the
Bench—-Forbes, Dowling, and Burton—for
an opinion as touts legality. They replied
to the effect that the step proposed was in
accordance with English law, under which
offenders were allowed to sit as jurors in
criminal cases on the completion of the
term of their sentences. The Bill was then
submitted to the Council, and in the absence
of two of its members —Archdeacon Brough-
ton and Mr. Robert Campbell, senior—that
body divided equally on the question as to
whether Emancipists were to be allowed to
sit as jurors or not. The Governor had a
vote in the Council as a sitting member, and
another casting vote in the event of an
equal division. The casting vote of Governor
Bourke, in this instance, turned the scale
and introduced the jury system—for that is
what his action then meant. This further
•d wince in the direction of popular reform
was forced on the colony in a measure by the
Governor, in the teeth of the bitterest oppo-
sition of the Vested Interest class.
• • »
Up to this time juries in criminal cases
were exclusively composed of seven naval or
military officers, eked out perhaps by civil
officials. Before the Forbes Charter a
majority of five voices in seven was sufficient
for a conviction, even in capital cases. The
prosecutor in those more early days pleaded
his own case, the Judge-Advocate framing
the indictment and practically conducting
the prosecution; while the accused was
always undefended ! ! The starting-point in
Botany Bay criminal jurisprudence was that
everyone was held to be guilty until his
innocence was made clear a few days after
he had been hanged, Our enemies say that
this is one of the features of the old system
that still survive in a, very slightly modified
form.
* • •
The difference between the results of
criminal cases before and after the Bourke
Jury Law is sufficiently evidenced by a few
figures. To take capital cases alone ; 95
persons were hanged out of the small
population on the shores of Sydney Cove in
the first six years after Phillip’s landing, but
so wild and reckless was the process of the
disposal of human life that no complete
return of those who died on the gallows is
available up to 1825. This is an eloquent
blank. We gather from the records and
Gazette files of the time that this laxity
was due to the number of executions, and
the indiscriminate and irresponsible manner
in which they were ordered. It was easier
to hang a man than to keep a record of the
fact. At the Criminal Sessions in October,
1822, 34 persons were herded in the dock
and sentenced to death—a noble subject for
an Australian historial picture. During
Darling’s rule we know that 184 persons
were hanged, and of the busiest year, 1828,
no record has been kept. During the first
four years of Bourke’s
term, and before the
jury law was passed or
had time to get into
fair working order, 197
persons perished by
the hangman’s hands.
But by this time the
people had become
accustomed to the ex-
ercise of the jury right,
and the number of
executions fell rapidly
away, until in the year
Bourke left the colony
only 12 persons were
hanged. During the
nine years of which
we have record be-
tween 1826 to 1839 the
public executions ave-
raged nearly one a
week. For the nine
subsequent years the
average was about one
in four months. Yet
the moral tone of the
community was higher,
and law and order were
daily taking firmer
shape. So much for
capital punishment as
a deterrent.
• *
The jury-law reform
was bitterly opposed.
The class that mono-
polised the privilege of serving on juries
protested strongly against the innova-
tion, and unscrupulously attacked it in its
working after it was introduced. The
treatment the lower classes of the popu-
lation had received was not of the kind to
make them the best citizens or the best
jurors, and it was some time before the
actual command of the new privilege
familiarised the people with its use. Those
who had the compiling of the lists were care-
ful, with the view of bringing the new law
into greater contempt, to put thereon the
names of Emancipists of notoriously bad
character, or who had been convicted of the
most heinous offences. Thus one man was
called -who was released on bail, being
charged with cattle-stealing ; another, who
had been transported for life to Moreton
Bay ; and a third, who had been half-hanged
a short time before. The gross clumsiness of
these melancholy artifices, however, de-
feated their own object, and proved nothing
beyond the fact that if the Emancipists
were sometimes unfit to serve as jurors',
they were not more so than the unscrupulous
wretches who resorted to such means to dis-
credit the progress of reform.
* * *
The first Act was introduced as an experi-
ment for a period, and in 1836 a letter
was addressed by the Governor to the three
Judges, asking their opinion on the working
of the law. Chief Justice Forbes and Judge
Dowling both replied in its favour, and it is
not likely that these two experienced men,
with their exceptional opportunities for
studying the working of the system, would
have given such an answer had they not been
satisfied of its truth. It is true that Judge
Burton gave an adverse opinion. But this
judge was a conservative of the purest water,
and one of his last acts in the country was
to resign his seat as President of the Legis-
lative Council as a protest against the grow-
ing power of the people. The law was
therefore confirmed, and as the enquiry
elicited quite sufficient evidence of the venal
character of those who. compiled the jury-
lists, and the trickery u reported to to
prove their ca?e, a circular letter was ad-
dressed by the Governor and the Chief Jus-
tice to all the magistrates of the colony,
cautioning them to be careful in the future
to see that the discharge of this duty in the
respective dis ruffs was not made a means to
defeat the aw, and bring it into contempt,
by the choice of improper persons.
• * *
Dr. Lang, who acquired a repute for
popular sympathies that he only half earned,
was a rabid opponent of the jury-bill, as he
was of Wardell and Wentworth, and the
Patriotic Association, from the beginning of
their work. He “entirely concurred with
Mr. Justice Burton in his opinion on the
measure,” he says in his “ History ; ” he re-
garded it as one of the blots on the adminis-
tration of Bourke, and said that the Emanch
pists claimed it because they were “taught and
incited to do so by certain news-writers of
their own class and origin, as well as- by
certain lawyers of inferior respectability,
who depended chiefly on emancipist and,
convict practice, and who willingly, pursued
the arts of petty agitation to acquire an im-
portance in society, which they had no other
me ms of attaining.” The venom in this
extr ict is apparent op the surface ; the news-
writers and lawyers of inferior respectability
b:iig, of course, Wen two-Mi and Wardell,
Li this respect the inter f tho worthy
Doctpt appears to ha v-> 'ed fiur astray,
booking back at the mat’-'n- from the stand-
point of the present we recognise that, what-
ever the objections to the granting of the
jury right may have been, and whatever the
character of the persons who first advocated
or exercised it, the fact remains that it was
the first great instalment of popular right
the people of the colony received, and that
the persons who obtained it were the real
leaders of subsequent democratic develop-
ment. The names of Sir Richard Bourke,
Sir Francis Forbes, Dr. Wardell, and William
Wentworth are most closely connected with
.C?wyifl
'‘ferial
WHAT GOVERNOR BOURKE DID.
this first step lowords the free institution of
to-day. This was the crushing of the first of
the heads of the hydra.
* * *
Another iniquity which Bourke lost no
time in minimising was the Assignment
System. Those who favoured Darling’s
rule wrote of that Governor that “under
him the anti-convict system was introduced,
and a commencement of real penal discipline
made, amidst great outcry He
introduced and strengthened the laws for the
management of the felon population, and
. . . . discipline was maintained with a
firm hand.” Lang says that his subordinate
agents treated the convicts with great seve-
rity under his direction, “and with a reck-
less indifference to their feelings as men
which their situation as criminals never
would have warranted.” The gaolers and
overseers took their tone from their chief,
of course. Darling established an Assign-
ment Board which effectually controlled the
appointment of white labour. So well was
the work done that any person ill-affected
towards the person or the acts of the
Governor stood little or no chance of having
his request for assigned servants attended
to. All this Bourke resolved to correct, as
soon as he realised the state of things into
the midst of which he had been precipi-
tated. He determined to introduce a more
humane spirit into the convict system itself,
and to new-model the Assignment system.
He therefore framed a code of regulations
for the latter purpose, under which the
number of assigned convict servants was to be
proportioned to the land held and under
cultivation by the applicant. But even this
reform called forth a howl of execration from
the slave-masters. It throws a strong light
on the condition of the time when wo find
that some of these people complained of the
new assignment regulations because they
permitted no more than 70 convicts to any
one person. It was no uncommon thing to
see these wretches placed in batches of 50
and 60 at the practically irresponsible mercy
of avaricious ruffians who know of no other
method of suasion than that of the flogger
or the iron-gang,
• * *
But one of the very first acts of the Go-
vernor, as soon as he saw the kind of people
lie had to deal with, w one that raised
him a plentiful crop of enemies. Stories of
the cruelties of masters towards their ser-
vants, encouraged under Darling’s san-
guinary rule, reached his ears nearly every
day. One' most atrocious instance occurred
in 1834. Six men were charged with taking
part in-a-mutiny of assigned servants on the
estate of Major Mudie —the person who-
afterwards wrote the scurrilous lampoon
called the “ Felonry of New South Wales.”
This man had a particularly bad reputation-
for his treatment of assigned’ servants* and
in the present instance the six inep did no>t-
deny their part in the mutiny* but-
“ persisted in thp statement that they
had been goaded: op to, their crime' by
the tyranny and ill-treatment which,
they hjid been subject to. on the.
station,” The six men were, hanged—to en-
courage the others, probably. Their state-
ments made such, ah, impression, however,
that a, Compiissiop appointed to enquire;
into the treatment of the white labour om
Major Mudie’s property—“ Castle Forbes ”-'
was what this aspiring creature called: his*
estate^ —and, enough was elicited to lead the-
Governor to strike his name off the Com-
mission of the Peace. These and other;
similar instances determined the Governor •
to do something for the wretches who could.l
only call attention to their miseries at t4v •
risk of tire gallows. He found on enquiry
that magistrates sentenced each other’s as-
signed servants to indescribable tortures with’ i
the lash on the smallest provocation, and with-,
out other rule or system than their own. c-ruel 1
caprice. He therefore proposed to. the -
Council a measure which became known as.
the Magistrates’ Act, limiting the sentences
which magistrates had power to indict to 50 )
lashes for each offence. Some idea of the ■
nature of the sentences complained of. may -
be gathered,, from the liberal nature of thi&<
limit. Fifty lashes to-day would be regarded,!
as barbarism .and savage torture ; then,, such,
limit to the powers of petty magistrates was ,
looked upon its a piece of capricious interfere.
ence on the part of the Governor, and
mawkish and ill-judged lenity. The mea-.
sure was passed, after bitter opposition, and
the hydra of convictism received another■
crushing blow.
* * *
The year after the right of trial by jury
was won witnessed the untimely death of.’
Dr. Wardell. That public-spirited man,,
whose talents were as great as his popular-
sympathies were progressive and wide, and.
to whose memory Australia must always owe
an inextinguishable public debt, was mur-
dered near his own home on the
road on September 7, 1834. Some bush-
rangers waylaid him, and he called upon
them to surrender. They failed to recognise
him, and one of them shot him dead. The
assassins, when they knew their victim, had
the grace to cover the body with branches to.
protect it from the native dogs. One of
their number, a boy, gave information, and
the two others were arrested and executed.
In Dr. Wardell’s death the colony lost an in-
valuable public servant, in the highest sense
of the word. The man whose name was so-
closely connected with his up to this stage
lost a guide and friend, and a contrast,
between his previous and his subsequent
career bears evidence of the value of the in-
fluence at so untimely an hour withdrawn,
Who are the People?
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
Who are the people ? Say are they
Who dwell at ease on others’ toil,
Who coin the labour day by day
Of hardy tillers of the soil—
Who build their wealth from peasants’ mites ?
No, no ; for these are parasites.
Not these ! Then are the merchant lords
Who own the arteries of trade,
Whose w ealth (built up by legal frauds)
Is squeezed from goods they never made ?
Whose loss and profit’s wrongs and rights ?
No, no. these, too, are parasites.
Who are the people ? Are they those
Who preach the “right divine ” of Greed
To seize its share by deadly blows,
Though thousands upon thousands bleed —
Who vaunt their “ texts ” and “ leading lights ’’ ?
Not yet —these still are parasites.
They are the men who toil and bear
The burdens of these parasites,
Who feed them all, and yet whose share
Is mere subsistence shorn of rights ;
Who long have borne the tyrants’ stroke,,
And yet have strength to burst the yoke.. -
Who grow the grain that others eat,
While they may starve upon the crumbs.
Who pay the cost when monarchs meet
In courtly state, with beat of drums—.
These are the people—may they learn
One day these sceptred shams to spurn.
And may they band for Freedom’s good.
And in her cause their names inscribe.
And own all men one brotherhood
Where now each claims some petty tribe!.
And no v where tyrants hold command.
The People then shall rule the land.
ZEPH.
Attention is now being called in England
to the possible effect which the new British impost
of ss. a dozen on bottled wines may have upon
Australian wines. The Australian trade has
been making steady advances since the Colonial
Exhibition; but it will be seriously hampered if
not, indeed, virtually extinguished by the new
1 Ettl Nearly 811 the Australian wine is shipped


FRECKLES
can be effectually eradicated by
the use of Clements’ Frboklebanb.
Freeklebane is the only reliable cure. Perfectly harmless.
Post free from the inventor, F. M. Clements, 141 King
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for 2s. lOd. N.S.W. stamps or
P.O.O. Sold by Washington Soul and all chemists.
Beware of worthless imitations.
Sundry Shows.
Theatre Royal. —“ Dorothy”... p 15
Her Majesty’s.—“ Two Orphans ”’
Royal Standard.— “ Black-Eyed Susan” ”
■ Criterion.—“ Ingomar
; Alhambra.— -Minstrelsy ”
New Opera House. — Harry Rickards ”
‘ Gaiety. —Jungfrau Kapelle ”
• Haymarket.— Wirth’s Circus . . ! ”
Y.M.C.A.—Classical Entertainments ”
On Saturday night George Rignold rose
■as the eight-hundred-pound villain in the “Two
Orphans,” and it was evident from the very first
that if the stage didn’t break in two, and the man
with the limelight didn’t die, the ex-Henry V.
Would get there. The “ Orphans ” have evidently
undergone some slight alteration since we saw
i hem last. The character of Jacques has been
nlarged to suit Mr. Rignold’s capacities, by the
uwortion of a number of irritating laughs here and
there, also a quantity of loud dialogue and
aggravating sneers, and in order to make
room for this the part of Pierre has been whittled
down till the lame brother with the knife-grinding
machine becomes of very small account. He is
overshadowed and eclipsed by the pompous snort
of his relative, and when Jacques is on the war-
trail a,;., i the air is thick with axes and human
feet he drops out of sight and is forgotten. And
yet all through the long five acts we are op-
pressed by a conviction that Jacques is too
thin. He struggles all the time to look like
a tearing buccaneer who is ready to balance
boiling water loose on his eye at any moment, and
whose chief pleasure and recreation it is to carry
victims to a wild lion with 800 claws, but he is so
hollow that it is hard to believe that even
the knife-grinding brother can be imposed upon
by his voice and hi boots. There is a moment of
pubh„ rejoicing when Jacques is permanently dis-
couraged in the closing scene ; his towering spirit
is submerged in the cold slush of despair, and
after rev Iving two or three times on his own
axis he leaps in the air with a shriek of horror
and unexpectedly goes to bed. He remains there
till the curtain descends, and even the prospect of
getting up to be hanged fails to move him. That
pleasant little charmer, Maggie Knight, who ap-
peared on Saturday for the first time since her
return from England an ;was recognised with en-
thusiasm, fills the par tcf the blind orphan, and a
feeling of regret goes round that orphans of her
kind should be so scarce, and fusty widows
with pale-blue cotton umbrellas so plentiful. Miss
Knight has concussed for the last few months
against the monarchical institutions and heredi-
tary superstitions of a bowled-out world, and has
come back unspoilt to the land where the emu
lives on old nails and scraps of iron, and where
that fresh young child of nature, the kangaroo,
jumps upon a thousand hills ; and, having satisfied
itself that its old young favourite is still the same,
Australia rises to bid her welcome. Miss Lucia Har-
wood shows considerable ability as the other
orphan, especially when she is shaken out of
a dream to find herself dwelling in marble halls
and not able to get out ; and Mr. Arthur Law-
rence is somewhat of a disappointment as
Pierre. He forgets his limp most of the time and
when he gets a knife to grind for a restaurant he
doesn’t either grind it or give it back ; but he is
hampered by the necessity of knuckling down to
a big brother who is so hollow in his bluster
that even the lame man’s barrow ought to see
through him and drive him, out. Mr. Jewett ap-
pears as a nice young man of the old regime, and
Mr. Erank Harcourt lends a certain element of
comedy to the show. A hideous old mother,
made up of dirt, hypocrisy, curses, and snuffle,
bad liquor and insane Chinamen having fits in a
cellar, is supplied by Miss Annie Taylor, whose
representation is a marvel of ability and rags ;
and 18 other characters make up the cast.
** * *
Harry Rickards’ Variety Company con-
tinue to achieve a certain amount of success at
Sydney Opera House, and, as before, the
marionettes —one of the finest shows of the kind
which we have seen —Fred Terriss and the
“Jugulaire,’’ are the mainstays of the company.
Miss Georgie Devoe’s performance on the bells
would be better if that tall and rather attractive
young lady in a short frock could make up her
mind faster as to which bell she is reaching for,
and Miss Katie St. Lawrence would be a pretty
singer if her voice were less like a broken tea-
chest crying in the wilderness. Mr. Rickards,
also, would be well-advised if he would cease to
scrag dismal melodies about “England, the land
of the free and the ruler of the waves,” with
mendacious statements in the chorus to the.
effect that the motherland owns the best *
workmen in the world—//tat kind of drivel
is out of date. The “Jugulaire,” however,
makes amends for a lot of slush. He is an active
gentleman who is able to grasp buttered thunder
in his teeth and keep three balls in the air at once
while he throws six plates of sheol-fire about be-
tween his legs; he can fling blazing kerosene in
the atmosphere, and catch it on the thin edge of
his immortal soul, and he performs an amazing
trick which consists of getting rid of a brick with
a glass of water on top of it. He drops a good
many things in the course of the proceedings, but
he has a faculty of bowing to the audience when
his paraphernalia goes to eternal smash, and look-
ing as if he let furniture fall for a living. Alto-
gether he is a good “ jugulaire,” but we have our
doubts as to his French origin. •
** * *
A dream of gladness wearing the clothes
of Miss Essie Jenyns has descended on Sydney
Criterion, where the “Merchant of Venice” not
only fills the house but extends right down the
stair into the street. Bill Holloway’s beauteous
relative has lost none of her attractions, but her
Portia is more subdued in spots than it used to be
—notably in the trial scene, where Miss
J enyns seemingly suffers from a frog in her
throat, and is unable to uplift her voice
as the occasion requires. Public opinion
opines that she has been getting her feet wet, and
if she does it again Australia will wallow in
sackcloth and ashes, and rend its Sunday
clothes. Apart from this vocal difficulty, how-
ever, any change which has taken place in Essie is
for the better, and the occasional exaggerations
of gesture in which Bill Holloway’s relative
indulged are less marked than they once were.
Our old and trusty friend Plain B. Hol-
loway himself makes his chief Shake-
spearean success as Shylock. His voice, which
sounds at times like a bag of grit towed over
rising ground, is an affliction in Romeo and a
popular grief in Hamlet, but the very fact that
the Holloway vocal organ is impervious to bull’s
grease and ointment and whale-oil makes
suited to the character of the deathless Hebrew
who ran short of meat in Venice so man'
years am Plain B. Holloway also acts the par
with great ability ; and as we view his heroi
efforts to get square with a low, mean, degraded
borrowing Christian our sympathies go with him
• r, u ' i nman mi , s the r 6le of the Christian, who
in the days of his prosperity was accustomed to
heave mud at the heads of the Chosen People in
order that his faith might remain on top, anc
under his fostering care, Antonio hangs round and
looks as mean as he ought to be. Bor many years
this busted dry-goods merchant has been posing
as a hero merely because he maintained a rowdy
and abusive attitude in religious questions in the
day of his prosperity and turned flat when he had
to hie his schedule and call a meeting of the
Hebrew who had lent him money, and it is a
satisfaction to see him sink at last to his proper
f at . ISS Constance Deorwyn fills the part
of iNerissa to the contentment of the pub-
lic, aim the rest of the company don’t
comrmt themselves when they can help it. None
of them rise very high, and consequently they
have not so far to fall, and don’t come down so
hard as might otherwise be the case. “Twelfth
Wight will occupy the Criterion stage until Fri-
day, and on Saturday that leggy barbarian “In-
gomar will stamp on his native mountains and
explain how he feels when two souls have but a
single thought and two hearts beat as one.
** * *
“Black-Eyed Susan” is enjoying good
fortune at Sydney Royal Standard. “ Dorothy ”
will be carried away on the shovel of poetry next
r rid ay, and on the succeeding evening Bland
Holt, with the assistance of Miss Myra Kemble,
will reproduce “The World,” at Sydney Royal.
His a striking feature in Mr. Holt’s character
that he is never happy unless he is producing a
drama that weighs four tons, and in which 387
HARRY RICKARDS.
expensively-dressed characters reveal themselves
in 18 scenes and two prologues, and this lavish
tendency on Bland’s part is again coining to the
front.
** # *
The Swiss singers at Sydney Gaiety have
rejoiced in full houses all through the past week,
and their popularity increases like the grass
which rises silently out of the earth, and no one
can hear it growing. These sweet warblers from
the mountains have so far resisted the under-
mining influences-of threepenny beers, dust-carts,
larrikins, free public-house luncheons, and other
vested interests, which are prone to shatter
the constitution of the tenor from foreign
parts; they have dodged the homicidal tramcars
of Sydney, and have refrained from “blewing” their
assets at lan-tan; and no meditative policeman
has run them in on a charge of being riotous and
splitting his coat up the back simply because he
could not understand their native language.
These escapes augur well for their future pros-
perity.
** # #
The Greenwood family, a combination five
strong, give a series of three concerts at the
Sydney Y.M.C.A. Rooms on Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday next, The company consists of
Misses Maribel, Agatha, Nora, and Ruby Green-
wood, aged respectively 17, 15, 13, and il years,
and Robert Greenwood, a rising genius of 8. This
quartette has made a great musical success in N. Z.,
and the abilities of Miss Maribel Greenwood
roused Remenyi, the famous Hungarian violinist,
to a frenzy of admiration, to which he gave vent
in the columns of the Auckland Stab, some two
years ago. Either the foreigner was fearfully
sold, or Miss Greenwood is one of the greatest
musical geniuses that Australasia has yet pro-
duced.
** * *
A monster fancy and evening dress car-
nival arises at the City Skating Rink, York-
street, Sydney, next Friday, when Messrs. Rol-
linson and Grant propose to launch out in prizes
regardless of expense and all other considerations.
Wirth’s Circus is doing great business ,in the
refined and sober region of the Haymarket, and
the tent is bulged out with the pressure of the
admiring multitude. Coogee Aquarium still
maintains its position as the leading place
of entertainment in the suburbs, and under
its galvanizing influence the little seaside
township is becoming known to many thou-
sands who formerly imagined that Cooge
was reached by going to Timbuctoo and the
diverging to the left A splendid concert is give
each Sunday at which such artists as Horae
1 oussard are laid on as if musical talent were a
common as dirt, and Mr. Silvester, a champion
rmkomamac, exhibits himself daily. The Ash
held Garden Palace is also in good condition, and
a liberal programme is always in progress.
** * *
At the Adelaide Royal “ The Soggarth ’
mw not been appreciated to the same extent as
Hue and Cry, but the houses-have been satis
factory. Mr. Darrell concludes his season with
The Lucky Lot,” and then “Hans the Boat
man will pull his craft along. Hudson’s Surprise
1 arty has vacated Garner’s Theatre, which-is now
occupied by the Faust Family and a variety
troupe. Miss Von Fmkelstein has left Adelaide
laden with the dollars of the godly.
#* # •
Governor Loch has marked his “ imme-
diate distinguished patronage” of Melbourne
Upera House show by stopping away since the
nrst night, meantime it has been pining like a
flower that is waiting for the watering-pot. All
last week “The Bohemian Girl ” struggled along
without the assistance of Miss Amy Sherwin, but
a depressed tout ensemble received a fillip from the
substitution of Mr. Henry Stockwell for the
primeval tenor of the company. The other gentle-
man s presence had been of a prime evil character
ail along, owing to circumstances over which, &c.,
and Mr. btockwell is a welcome improve-
ment until he attempts to express his feelings
m blank prose. Within similar limits, Miss
Minna Tischer was the sweetest of Arlines
causing the house to wriggle with effusive joy
when she dreamt she dwelt in marble halls. Miss
Marie Hester, a tuneful new arrival, is another
instance of the fact that singing and talking are
distinct arts, and when the company drops into
grand opera once again it will be received like the
prodigal returning to his natural element. Miss
Amy Sherwin was announced for Monday night
in “ Maritana,” with “ Bohemian Girl ” to follow.
To-morrow (Friday) “Martha ” promises to give
the entertainment a necessary shake-up.
To the Royal, in Melbourne, the citizens flocked—
Girls plainly apparelled and gaudily_frocked,
With matrons and men of promiscuous rank—
To see Carrie Swain swim about in a tank.
“The Tomboy,” 'forsooth, they had sampled
before
(It hasn’t a plot you would care to encore).
But they turned up again, to be honest and frank,
Attracted by rumours concerning the tank.
Once more Carrie flung herself into the breach,
She danced and she sang, taking honours in each,
And when she had played every possible prank,
Jehoshaphat! Carrie dived into the tank.
Oh ! never a mermaid who lives in the sea,
Or a shark, or a herring, swam better than she.
The success of the play was as safe as a bank—
To make a big splash you must get in a tank.
Sure, out of their skins they were ready to spring,
And when angel Carrie appeared on the “ wing,”
From her head to her tootsicums dripping and
dank,
All envied the ocean that flowed in the tank.
Stern critics may sit on this show if they will,
It won’t interfere with the run of the bill:
Every soul with a shilling that shilling will plank
To see Carrie Swain carry on in a tank.
As far as the eye of anticipation can reach, a
gorgeous future lies before Miss Swain’s re-ap-
pearance at Melbourne Royal. Her natural
talents have been further developed since she last
“knocked ’em ”in “The Tomboy moreover, be-
tween the old play and the revised version a great
watery'‘gulf is fixed. This gulf is 50 feet square
and eight feet deep. Flush with the stage, it
personates the bounding: ocean into which Carrie
takes a header in the third act. The popular ap-
petite for realism has never been so whetted on
■ his side of the world.
CORRESPONDENCE
Kack-Blocker ”; The Bulletin cannot
e m o account the private characters of theatrical
is s. The Australian public has often decided that no
ina eihow ruffianly or contemptible a politician’s pri-
aec aracter may be he is qualified to make laws in
I( ai larncn *' so long as he allows nobody who is likely to
peach to catch him in the act of stealing money from
e State Treasury. That being so, what can t concern
e pu lie to learn that certain women only use the stage
as a means of advertising a base calling ? If you want
itm shown up, go to their place of entertainment and
pu ic y denounce their immorality—or call the atten-
ion o the police to the fact that women of
,ad repute are occupying a licensed house
J.H. (Rochester): Thanks "E.J.8.”; Nice littl 6
verses, mild in tone, unobjectionable in sentiment, well
fitted for Dorcas Societies and tame cats. We are holding
them over—over the fire....“ R.w.” : Yes.it is beyond
aoubt. The Chinese merchants themselves admit it
re , e , y , ‘' ■ ® • Moseley ” ; Let the Chinese only be per-
mitted to reside in Freetrade constituencies—how do you
hke that idea ?.... <■ Gum Leaf ” : The average race-sweep
is a dark and fearsome mystery. The Bulletin takes
no responsibility whatsoever concerning any sweep.
Mason”; Judge Jeffreys would have been
a murderer if he hadn’t been a judge. He was a
murderer even then, but he murdered by law. To a
person with a quietly villainous temperament the
position of a Judge in Mexico must, according to your
be the supreme of j0y....“W. Morant”:
Half the officials of the Sydney Anti Chinese League are
men who have long and earnestly worked in the direction
of banishing the Chow. The other half are transparent
humbugs who like to sit on top of a big billow be-
cause they think it’s going to break on a nice sandy
beach which will prospect half-an-ounoe to the dish....
"Just Out of Gaol”; The imprisonment of a labourer for
ireach of contract under the Masters’ and Servants’ Act
What wL I M e u m iL tdiS £ raC * eful bl0ts0!1 our Statute-book.
which imiu P V^ Ug the °P eration of a similar law
nronertl ™P ns ,°nment of th e capitalist or
property-holder, and why should property or capital the
nK P out to? C h S P UltSo / bour > merit P a consideration not
meted out to the creator?. .."Guy Daryll”- A contract
cannot be really designated as "free” when one of the
' nomfffiffiment l? S ti rUnS a i!? ° f his livelihood by
non fulfilment of the conditions of the contract. Half
\ I l ed . KiD g do “ are compulsory
i K ~ '. th ® holders of the fee simple, and they are
obhged to take the terms offered or, in many
thf 8 ■f n eas *> Siye up their livelihood, and run
the risk of starvation.... “C.C.” :We acknowledge re-
ceipt of your dignified rebuke. Truth may be a beauti.
ul thing m the abstract, but it has never done much for
Ei ? B torv U h? s n h ty H 6Veiy reform?" the world^s
history has had its origin in a magnificent lie, conceived
rmbflhlT and be ." otten , in Panic. The man who states
only the case receives only an apathetic shrug and an in-
different sneer of incredulity, but the deluded reformer
who has evolved a splendid fiction which sets the world
agog with wonder, is generally lucky enough to dip in
gaol or on the scaffold, with the full assurance that his
biography will sell well, and that men will erect a ton of
marble over his probable remains after he has
turned to mould and mingled with the centuries
. Austral : You ask “ Why is it that when any great r< -"
former is recognised as such he is at once cut off from the
sympathies of his fellows by being crushed down with
the attributes of a saint or a god?” We renlv hripii,
that for building a mountainous conundrum P a nd then
firing it off at the head of somebody who never did you
any harm, you haven t an equal in Australia. What makes
sentiments <‘nr '’ ’ Eeaf ” : Them is also om
sentiments D. Love : We have used up the subject
20 times over. The conduct of a Minister of Lands in
raising rents after they have been fixed by a legally-ap
81 + n u PI T means that the Minuter holds him-
self to be above the laws. Parkes has always considered
himseff to be so, and his hangers-on now follow his example*
.. Cockney : When we wrote, "There is no reaso non
earth why the Atheist should not commit suicide - there
is every reason why the Christian should not,” we meant
ofcourse, that there was no reason why the Atheist
should not suicide if he wants to, and your reasoning
doesn’t alter the position. The Christian,' you say is thf
man who ought to suicide as a short cut to eternkl hap!
PI ThS u U n th * Christian holds that the command,
i ,°V, s * n 0 * means, among other things tint
he shall not kill himself, and concludes that eternal hap-
piness cannot be reached by such an ignominious road
Again, according to his religion, the more misery and
suffering the Christian patiently endures in this world
the greater his reward in the next. The Atheist
has no such powerful incentive to live. The
Atheist, if he is what his name implies, denies the
existence of a God and so disregards the commandment •
and the on!y reason, according to your showing, wbv ho
should live, is that any kind of life is better thak annihi-
lat’°n - y e ha je our doubts about that. Look at some
of the dark subterranean dungeons where medieval uri
soners lingered for 30 or 40 years, and then think over the
point.. "C.C.”: We have dealt with that matte !
hundred tunes over “ Cockney ” ; Please call “ M
Watson”; Saturday’s anti-Chinese demonstration in
Sydney was attended by at least 9000 people, but it wasn’t
attended by 40,000..." C.W.8.”: Yes, Johns was a member
of the Moonlight gang....“E. Jones”: The Czar is a
despot ; the Queen is the nominal head of a limited
monarchy “ Miner ” (Normanton): One thing at a
J - UBt DOW TIIE Bi:l letin can see only one thing •
that it is necessary for Australia to steer towards In'
dependence instead of towards Imperialism. Australian
Nationality once assured, it will be easy to deal sum
marily with the land-grab question.... ‘/james Boy?"”
(Mackay): Your letter effectually disposes of the idea
that every Irishman is a humorist. You tell us that we
are always holding up the Irish to contempt—this in face
of the fact that we have on our table a whole ream of
letters charging us with treason, being Irish, Fenianism
Papistry, and various other crimes with which it is sought
to saddle your bleeding country. Irishmen are good at
making jokes ; but Scotchmen are better at taking them
‘‘Vinca” (Ross Island, Q.): Will publish "R.8.T.”
(Latrobe-street, Melbourne): We are not intentionally
curt, but our space is limited, and we have small op-
portunity of examining in detail an abstract question
spread over a voluminous MS. or of replying to it in the
‘ Correspondence ” c01umn...." C. Ley ward ”: Capital
letter ; many thanks...." R.A.L.” (Kilmore, Vic.) ■ Verv
childish and petty strictures...." Water on Kao ”
(Tonga): Not of general interest .. “ Trotter Bethune” •
We cry peccavimus — "J.A.A.” (Dunollv, Vic.)- Will
write to P-0 “ Gaffney ” : Received with greeting....
“ Waratah”(Mt.-Bischofl, Tas.): Very parochial item. ■
interest nobedy but the people concerned ..."Moree'
Joker ” : Thanks, but can’t read your signature “T?
Studdert” (W. Maitland): Never saw the com'munica-
tion of which you speak....“ Cornstalk ” : There’s a lot
of truth in what you say; but there’s one great dif-
ference between Chows and Italians according to
your own showing. The latter are not likely to compete
in anything that requires very bard maniial exertion
The poorer of the descendents of Marius and Sylla I eep
oyster-saloons and grind hurdy-gurdies, and run fruit sh ops
and otherwise supply long-felt wants.... “ Liberal ”: Very
simple. The rich have hitherto monopolised the educa-
tion, therefore they are Conservative. Education will tot
make you Democratic if you are not naturally so It
will simply give you a fresh weapon with which to o’rmh
your fe110w5....“ Bard of Woolloomooloo ” ; Were the e
no other objection, the epic of Cook Ward is too con-
catenatedly attenuated. [Many communications held
over.]


FROM RHEUMATISM.
Tlic CELEBRATED
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
"A Patent and Pleasant Remedy.
This popular stimulant has been proved to afford
Great Relief in RHEUMATISM and GOUT.
It SOOTHES the NERVES by its gently
diffusive properties, ALLAYS IRRITATION by
its quieting effects, and, TONING the SYSTEM,
STRENGTHENS the ORGANS so as to perfect
functional action.
ti f There is nothing knovm better calculated to
invigorate the constitution than
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS!
If you want a suit of clothes, which, for fit
style and finish, cannot be beaten, go to Leuschncr
and Maguire. 72 King-street.*
The Brickbat.
[Slung by Titus Salt, scribe by special appointment to
His Excellency Baron Carington. ]
A joint-stock enterprise known as the
“ Universal Egg Advertising Company, Limited,
is now either floated or in the throes of the float-
ing process in Melbourne, and the Australian
public, which has been hungering for more than a
century after a feasible method of publishing its
wants on eggs, pancakes, chops, and other plain
food is understood to be breaking itself up in the
rush for shares. Many years ago, it will be remem-
bered, a plan was devised for standing eggs up on
end, but the author of this scheme was too busily en-
gaged in discovering America to secure a patent,
and, after his death, which took place in low circum-
stances, the egg took to lying down again as before.
As far as can be ascertained the egg lay down in
the time of Moses, and there is no authentic re-
cord of any serious effort on the part of that
ancient prophet to make it sit up. The inventor
of the advertising process, however, evadesthis
problem, and merely devotes himself to the issue
of public announcements, warranted not to boil
off, on the outer husk of the incipient fowl, that
article of food being allowed to roll as before.
But just here the fatal defect of the system be-
comes apparent. The advertisement is a merely
superficial one, and consequently it is lost to that
large section of the community which takes its
eggs along with ham, and unless this defect can be
cured and the print can be driven into the
vitals of the egg the usefulness of the invention
will be seriously undermined. Advertising on the
ham itself is apparently impracticable, and public
announcements can't be put on the gravy—we
defy anyone to do that. Moreover, the company,
even in its early stages, is apparently suffering
from over-confidence. It says ;
“ They realise its advantages over other methods, not
only from the fact that it will penetrate into the shop, the
breakfast-room, and the kitchen, and force itself upon
universal attention without cost for display or distribu-
tion, hut also from the certainty that each individual
advertisement will be brought prominently under the
notice of an average of some five persons, so that a weekly
advertisement placed upon only ten gross of eggs will
insure the attention of at least 250,000 people per annum. ’
This calculation is obviously erroneous. Accord-
ing to Mulhall, England, France, and Germany
alone consume 10,444,000,000 eggs per annum,
and, reckoning on this basis, these must be
seen by 52,222,000,000 people. As the population
of the world only amounts to some 1,400,000,000
however, all told, it follows that the human
race would have to- see no less than 250
eggs each in order to keep up the average for three
little countries alone, and when we recollect that
they have the remainder of the habitable globe on
hand as well we arrive at the astounding con-
clusion that each individual would require to have
fully 18,000 eggs brought under his direct notice
in order to prevent this calculation from bursting
up. And when we make due allowanc o for the large
number of bilious people who never see any eggs,
and deduct a reasonable proportion for cripples,
incurable patients, lunatics, men who are sen-
tenced to imprisonment for life, sailors wrecked
on desolate islands, idolaters who are debarred
from the blessings of the Christian faith, infants
with water in the head, short-sighted people, in-
mates of blind asylums, divers, Eskimo,
monks, and residents in the Great African
Desert, this immense figure is increased
to fully 40,000,per annum, and it becomes incum-
bent on every able-bodied citizen to see 100 eggs
every day and a few at night as well. 1 1 is im-
possible that any human being could stand the
strain and yet retain his reasoning powers unim-
paired, and the imbecile calculation of the “ Uni-
versal Egg Advertising Company” may stand
down. The world is too busy for people to do
nothing taut loaf around every day and see more
eggs than all its inhabitants put together could let
drop in a month, and the whole theory is merely
another proof of the effects of reckless multiplica-
tion, which only leads to derision and contempt.
If the object of the company were to paint foreign
telegrams, and the rest of the contents of the
morning paper, upon the breakfast ham, it
would doubtless proceed with the same
pleasant assurance to demonstrate that every-
body in these colonies ate ham | eighteen
times a day, but it wouldn’t do. This sort of
thing is too thin.
* * •
Few items in the great resources of print
have ever touched our sensibilities more than this
terse notice extracted from a recent Melbourne
Age :
THE gentleman that took the bank-notes off
verandah, street, return, or proceedings
will be taken.
Even to the amputated intellect of the ordinary
man there are some features in this case which
cannot be overlooked. Few incidents have ever
spoken more eloquently of the boundless resources
of this incipient nation. It is only in lands filled
to overflowing with riches that people keep their
bank-notes on the verandah and their family-
plate on top of the ash-heap, and it is only in re-
gions of lofty mental culture that the man who
takes notes off the verandah is looked upon as a
gentleman. Old, worn-out kingdoms, where
suffering races toil to raise one lean chicken to the
square mile, can hardly understand a state of
civilisation in which specie-payment bulges out
into the street and people can’t get into their
houses without falling over coin ; prematurely
aged Europeans in broken boots stand aghast to
learn that in the valleys of the antipodes whole
families have frequently been hurried into eternity
through ready-money rushing downhill upon them
unexpectedly and knocking out their brains, and
that this evil has only been feebly combatted by
legislative enactments, which prohibit the keeping
of large quantities of loose change on the edges of
. cliffs and other exposed places; and the turgid
intellects of northern climes reel when their
owners read how criminals are flogged in
Australia with large quantities of gold
attached to the end of a rope, and how
they live in affluence ever afterwards by picking
the funds out of their backs when their sentences-
have expired. The ignorance of Englishmen and
other foreigners on Australian topics of national
importance is dense and appalling, and even
travellers of the highest reputation have meanly
ignored this phase of our existence out of a debas-
ing fear that their veracity might be called in
question. The very engineers who were brought
out at vast expense to advise on means for dredg-
ing the coin out of our rivers in order to render
them navigable, have smothered all mention of:
the subject; the financiers who were sounded to
ascertain if there was any country large enough to-
borrow bur surplus gold and forget to pay the
interest on it, and who sent a brutal reply
on a post-card to the effect that they were-
not beasts of burden, have never been heard
from since; and the remains of the Russian prince
who died from injuries received through a sack of
bank drafts falling on his head in a hotel still lie
unclaimed in the morgue. His relations have
been repeatedly communicated with, but the only
result so far has been an unfeeling * ‘ collect” message
from his father, which had been so much mutilated
by the concussion of a foreign tongue against the
wires that nothing could be distinguished except
the closing sentence, in which the author stated
that the unspeakable Turk wasn't any good. Un-
less the old man communicates again shortly it is
hard to say what this country is to do about it.
Furthermore, according to latest advices, the
tank in which the Government keeps its
surplus is threatening to give way, and relations
with foreign Powers are seriously strained, the
representatives of several leading nations being
under the impression that Australia makes a
HIS LITTLE THREE-PENNORTH
NEW-CHUM DUDE: “I PREFAH DRINKING OUT OF THE PEWTAH. IT’S SO
AWFULLY MUCH COOLAH, DONTCHERKNOW.”
AUSTRALIAN HEBE (sweetly): “YA’AS—AND IT HOLDS SO MUCH MOAH
BEEAH, DONTCHERKNOW.”— (He goes there no moah.)
vulgar display of her wealth for the purpose of
heaping ridicule upon them, whereas, in reality,
this great nation is breaking its neck over hogs-
heads of gold and silver, and a day seldom passes
■without some unfortunate sufferer being taken to
the hospital with a compound fracture acquired
through getting his feet tangled up in diamond
necklaces and other jewellery. These circum-
stances show that a great danger is looming in the
foreground of history, and yet nobody heeds the
signs of coming disaster. Our legislators spend
their nights in imbecile discussion of Chinese
and other problems while every hour some-
body dies in agony through having broken
his back in the effort to carry home his salary,
and as politicians, in defiance of every maxim of
constitutional law, positively decline to accept
any money, the burden is left entirely on The
shoulders of the suffering masses. These things
are the forerunners of revolution. The French
peasantry of a century ago had abundance of
grass to eat, but the haughty nobles of that era
declined to eat grass themselves and revelled in
cake and buns on the edge of the abyss. Then
a time came when the peasants found_ that
there was more grass than they could eat without
the assistance of the upper classes, and in a frenzy
of dread lest they should be smothered by the
excess of vegetation they instituted the Reign of
Terror and overturned the throne. Let Parkes
take warning by the events of the bloodstained
past.
* * *
Society in New Zealand has been shaken
up a good deal of late by the D ‘Albedhyll divorce
case. The lady who was mixed up in this
trouble is alleged to have gone on hawful,
and her husband said he wouldn’t stand it,
and then they filed affidavits, and an appalling
row ensued; and when the riot was at it*
height, an injudicious parson wrote a long letter
to say that he didn't think so. An action for libel
immediately ensued, and, between the verdict and
the costs, the reverend expounding gentleman
had to go broke and hung his schedule on a
willow tree All the “pious” periodicals have
wrestled with this case, and all the good young
men who don’t play cards and never stay out late,
and whose feet are large and cold and horrible,
have written to the papers to say how awful it is
that such events should take place. One young
man especially builds a moral thus :
“ Insist upon knowing your future wife or husband’s
moral and physical history before anything. I adCise all
young men particularly to have in writing a document
from his intended wife in her own writing as to whether
she was ever married or no, or if a widow. This precau-
tion would prevent fraud, and also being told 20 years
after marriage that your wife perhaps is not legally
yours.”
We endorse these remarks with enthusiasm.
Amid the hundreds of men against whom we have
concussed in the course of a variegated career
hardly one had a document from his intended
wife, stating whether she was ever married
or no, or if a widow ; -and not a solitary
individual of the lot possessed a paper signed
by his future bride, stating that she, had
been married and wasn’t a widow'. And out of
a vast assortment of engaged girls we can’t recall
a single instance of one who knew her lover’s
moral and physical history or who wouldn’t have
sent for the police instantly if she had known it.
Marriage is an awfully loose institution in Aus-
tralia, and the land is strewn with human wrecks
who might have been saved if they had got a
document apiece from their wives stating whether
they were widows or not, and had put the paper
away carefully in the pocket of an old pair of
pants and then exchanged clothes with some other
man when he was bathing and done the Pacific
slope.
* * *
A gloomy mystery, darker even than that
which enshrouds the memory of the man who
struck Buckley, hangs over the golden district of
Inangahua (N.Z.), a place which earns a humble
subsistence by hollering out that it will sell shares
that nobody ever wants to buy, and fills in the
rest of its time by suspending operations on
account of the snow. On the 28th April last, a
Chinaman left his claim to go somewhere and
never got there. He never got back either, and
nobody saw him on the road to the place he didn’t
arrive at. He left no footprint on the sands, and
no scream walking through the astonished air;
and he did not even inscribe upon the earth one of
those dislocated Confucian observations, which are
imported into this country on tea-chests, to tell
how he came to be undone. He simply vanished
from a rowdy land, and his soul, it is presumed,
now sits upon the immortal battlements and says
“Kilal” His countrymen are moving in the
matter as follows :—,
n i c POUNDS REWARD for anyone that finds
AJ A the Chinaman who is lost in the Mossy
Creek district (Little Grey). Cum Yen, Storekeeper.
We stop here to mention to Cum Yen that though
we can’t find the Chinaman he wants we are will-
ing to supply an equally good Chow for the above-
mentioned, sum, and if he desires a quantity he
can have them at reduced rates. We are also pre-
pared to guarantee that our Chinaman will be as
heavy as the one who has been mislaid, and will
know as much. He can be supplied either in a
washed condition or in his natural state, with or
without pigtail, and he can have leprosy if re-
quired. Furthermore, we will allow a week's
trial provided the heathen isn’t damaged, and if at
the end of that time lie is found to fill the yearn-
ing in Cum Yen’s soul, that gentleman can for-
ward his marked cheque at once. We decline to
take it out in tea or stuffed reptiles.
A member of the Melbourne Wesleyan
Conference feelingly urged that “we should look
after the poor Chinamen whom God’s providence
has brought,hither. ” It would be much easier to
lock up the poultry.
Dear Bulletin, —“ Jack ” Want, Q.C.,
says that “England has never been known to
break her word.” Shade of Patrick Sarsfield,
with the Treaty of Limerick in your back coat-
pocket, d’ye hear that ? —Mickey.
A Warrnambool (Vic.) fisherman is re-
ported to have found a large, circular-shaped fish,
with a long beard and fins like human hands.
Local piscatorial specialists are at a loss to classify
the monster, but to us it looks very like a whale.
Uncle Bill.
THE LARRIKIN’S LAMENT.
My Uncle Bill! My Uncle Bill!
How doth my heart with anguish thrill I
For he, our chief, our Robin Plood,
Has gone to jail for stealing wood !
With tears and sobs my voice I raise
To celebrate my uncle’s praise ;
With all my strength, with all my skill,
I’ll sing the song of Uncle Bill.
Convivial to the last degree
An open-hearted sportsman he.
Did midnight howls our slumbers rob,
We said, “ It’s uncle ‘ on the job.’ ”
When sounds of fight rang sharply out,
Then Bill was bound to be about,
The foremost figure in “ the scrap,”
A terror to the local “trap.”
To drink, or fight, or maim, or kill,
Came all alike to Uncle Bill,
And when he faced the music’s squeak
At Central Court before the beak,
How carefully we sought our fob
To pay his fine of forty bob!
Recall the happy days of yore
When Uncle Bill went forth to war !
When all the street with strife was filled
And both the traps got nearly killed.
When the lone cabman on the stand
Was “ stoushed ” by Bill’s unaided hand,
And William mounted, filled with rum,
And drove the cab to kingdom come.
Remember, too, that famous fray
"When the Black-reds, ” who hold their sway
O’er Surrey Hills and Shepherd’s Bush,
Descended on the ‘ ‘ Liver Push. ”
Who cheered both parties long and loud ?
Who heaved blue-metal at the crowd ’
And sooled his bull-dog, Fighting Bet,
To bite, haphazard, all she met ?
And when the mob were lodged in gaol
Who telegraphed to me for bail ?
And here 1 think he showed his sense
Who calmly turned Queen’s evidence ?
Enough ! I now must end my song,
My needless anguish why prolong ?
J rom what I’ve said, you’ll own, I’m sure
That Uncle Bill was pretty “pure,”
So, rowdies all, youi glasses fill,
And—drink it standing—
“Uncle Bill.”
Another Rabbit Destroyer.
POISON FROM THE HUMAN BREATH.
Professor Brown-Sequard has recently been
making experiments to determine whether the
human breath was capable of producing any poison-
ous effects. From the condensed watery vapor of
the expired air he obtained a poisonous liquid,
which, when injected into the skin of rabbits, pro-
duced almost immediate death. He ascertained
that this was an alkaloid, and not a microbe. The
rabbits thus injected died without convulsions, the
heart and large blood vessels being engorged with
blood. Brown-Sequard considers it lully proved
that the expired air, both of man and animals, con-
tains a volatile poisonous principle which is much
more deleterious than carbonic acid. The amount
of poisonous air expired with the breath depends
on the condition of the purifying organs of the
system ; every particle of blood that goes through
the kidneys also passes through the heart and
lungs, and if the kidneys are in the least derange i,
they cannot rid the blood of the uric acid or kidney
poison. The thousand little hair-like sewer tubes
of the kidneys very easily get clogged up and
diseased, and when they do, they corrupt in-
stead of purifying the blood; this, no doubt, ac-
counts for Warner’s Safe Cure, which acts directly
on the kidneys, curing so many diseases. Mrs.
Hugh Wilson of Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W., says ;
‘ ‘ Six months ago I was attended bv two of the lead-
ing physicians of Sydney, who after a urinary
analysis, pronounced me to be suffering from
Brights’ disease of the kidneys, from which they
held out no hope of recovery. My symptoms were
periodical side headaches occuring weekly with
unabated violence; loss of sleep, general langour
and depression ; pains and palpitation of the heart
and violent shooting pains in the back ; at night
there was a swelling of my feet and ankles which
generally disappeared in the morning. The doc-
tors having failed to give me relief I decided to
try Warner’s Safe Cure, and at the end of a fort-
night the pains had left me, and I could get re-
freshing sleep. I have now consumed in all 36
bottles of Warner's Safe Cure, and a few bottles
of Warner s Safe pills. Apparently the symptoms
of disease have all left me and I look and feel well
again, I am 44 years of age.” James Brown, a
large landed proprietor and farmer at ©range,
N.S.W., says : “All my life I have suffered from
weakness of the stomach. I suffered from
distension with flatulency, also heartburn, for
which I tried many remedies, but with temporary
relief. It seemed that whenever I ate any fatty
matter heartburn was sure to follow my incautious
indulgence. Some time ago I resorted to the use
of Warner’s Safe Cure for ray complaint and to
my agreeable astonishment, it thoroughly cured
me of all the unpleasant symptoms above des-
cribed.”


At Mark Young’s Pier Hotel, Frankton, near
Melbourne, superior accommodation for visitors.
Fresh and salt-water .baths in house, close to sea
baths. Horses and buggies for hire.
Personal Items.
London Punch styles Mrs. Gordon-Baillie
“ the Scotch Becky Sharp.”
Chief Justice Higinbotham now refuses to
even patronise the Victorian Exhibition.
Gladstone prides himself on his excellent
digestive powers; but he dare not eat oysters or
sweetbreads.
The veteran, Sir George Grey, having sold
his beautiful Kawau, has gone to live at Lake
Takapuna, Auckland.
The name of the late Sir .James Martin
is among the first in the baptismal register of St.
Mary’s H,C. Cathedral, Sydney.
The ascetic Isaac Pitman, inventor of
phonography, is now 76. He is a Swedenborgian,
a vegetarian, a teetotaller, and an anti-tobacconist.
“Aulus,” the successor of “ gEgles” as
writer of “Talk on’Change'’ in the Australasian,
has in turn been succeeded by “Telemachus”
(Francis Myers),
General Sheridan, the Commander-in -
Chief of tiie United States army, is dying. And
yet the Duke of Cambridge isn’t. Mysterious are
the ways of Providence !
A British lord who was sent to prison for
fraud some time ago, has been set at liberty and
is now doing duty as porter at the Pall Mall
Gazette office at £1 a week.
David Gaunson, M.P., will no longer be
able to pass facetious allusions to Chief Secretary
Deakin’s gig-lamps, Ids late illness having impaired
his eyesight, and driven him to—glasses.
Earl of Buckinghamshire is more or
less engaged to a Scotch heiress. The present in-
come of this young Buck is about £6 a week, so
the lady will supply a long-felt want in his noble
family.
The Duke of Portland, who has just
scooped the Derby stakes into his overflowing
garner, comes of a woman-hating crowd. Society
maidens are beginning to give this young man up
as a bad job.
Mr. Gausden, who died of typhoid at
Broken Hill the other day, was a barrister, but
had abandoned law for journalism. The Silver
Ace, which he edited, will find with difficulty an
abler man. He was only thirty.
How the royalties increase and multiply !
Queen Victoria’s eldest daughter will, in all pro-
bability, be a great-grandmother before she is CO,
and her mother will be a great-great-grandmother
before she reaches the fourscore margin.
The most sensible gift that the Pope got
as a Jubilee offering was the 500,000 francs in gold
sent him by the monks of Chartreuse ; and the
most splendid one the great diamond ring for-
warded to his Holiness by the Sultan of Turkey.
The figures of this year, 1888, represent,
by addition, 25. A Tory—who has nothing to do
but sign eviction-orders —has discovered that they
also represent the silver wedding of “Tummy.”
For the result of this profound research, he has
received the royal thanks.
The late Kaiser is said to have explained
to one of his Ministers that his use of Wilhelm
'“lmp. Rex,” instead of the full “ Imperator et
Hex,” or simply “ 1.R.,” was because he felt that
lie was only partly an Emperor, while, he added,
“ 1 know that I am altogether a king.”
Louis Buvelot, the talented Swiss painter
who had been resident at Melbourne for 23 years,
died the other day. Three of Buveldt’s land-
scapes—perfect gems of their kind—hang in Mel-
bourne National Gallery to keep his memory
green. BuvelOt’s “ Waterpool at Coleraine ”is a
delicious picture.
Sir James M‘Bain, as predicted in The
Bulletin, has been appointed President of Mel"
bourne Exhibition Commission in place of Justice
Higinbotham, and the Government Home party
feels more contented in its mind. Mac. is wel-
comed as a long-winded and vigorous performer
on the Imperial trumpet.
Judge Kerferd, of Melbourne (he was
connected with a brewery at Beechworth a few
years ago) showed what stern stuff he was made
of the other day by sentencing a white haired
man (50 years old to 10 years’ hard labour and two
floggings! The floggings will, no doubt, teach
that old man to know better during the next 60
years of his life.
Mr. Sub-Inspector Stephenson, of Forbes,
who, in a fair, stand-up, hand-to-hand encounter,
shot Lowry, the bushranger, is in Sydney. Mr,
Stephenson was made a sub-inspector in 1803 as
a reward for his pluck in the Lowry encounter,
and he has remained a sub-inspector ever since—
promotion for merit not being particularly fast in
the N.S.W. police force.
Mr. Alfred Hale, whose playing was the
redeeming feature in the peformance of the local
men in the football match N.S.W. v. England at
Sydney on Saturday last, is a grandson of Thomas
Holt, who suffered with many other gallant
fellows for his part in the Irish rebellion of 1768.
Young Hale is a worthy chip off the old block, and is
just now wasting his muscular Christianity in a
lawyer’s office.
Old Emperor William was not without
humor, and loved a quiet joke. Once at a hunt,
the huntsmen laid twenty-eight head of game be-
fore him, which they said that he had killed. He
smiled, and quoted ; “ There are more things in
heaven and earth than are dreamed of in your
philosophy”; adding: “for is it not a miracle
that I should have killed twenty-eight head while
I had only twenty-five cartridges?”
Gladstone, it is stated in a book about
Eton, lately published in London, edited, in 1827,
the Eton , Miscellany, under the pen-name of
“Bartholomew Bouverie.” In this little paper he
printed an “Ode to the Shade of Wat Tyler,”
which concluded with these lines
“ So men of taxes : men of law,
In alley close and murky lane,
Shall find a Tyler and a Straw
To cleave the despot's slave in vain.”
Parnell’s love of mystery. Every day
during the Easter recess he passed in the House
of Commons. He had the place, with its library,
tea-room, dining-room, smoke-room, and terrace
all to himself. He was alone save for the police,
who stood at each of the doors which lead to these
places. Not one of his followers had the remotest
knowledge of the whereabouts of their chief. Yet
he was where he was least expected to be, and in
that, to Mr. Parnell, consisted the charm of it.
A child was born during the _ great
crush at the funeral of Emperor William, and the
men around the wretched mother —who lay in
slush and snow two feet deep—had to fight like
tigers to keep the crowd from crushing the infant
to death. It was with the greatest-difficulty that
the pair were rescued and taken to the hospital.
Both are thoroughly healthy to-day, the child
being as vigorous a youngster as ever an heirless
monarch sighed for and could not get for a king-
dom.
Bismarck maintains that the acquirement
of languages does not imply talent. He thinks
the ear rather than the mind is cultivated by a
linguist. A consul recently appointed to Berlin
pestered his minister to present him to Bismarck.
At length an interview was granted, and throwing
etiquette aside, the consul brought his son with
“ n h- Bismarck looked annoyed, lint the consul
boldly presented Lis heir, with the remark : “A
most remarkable young man, your highness—he
speaks several languages." “What a fine waiter
the young fellow would make!” said Bismarck,
coldly, to the minister at his side.
Sir Henry Parkes, Premier of N.S. Wales,
has just attained his 73rd birthday. We cordially
wish him many happy returns of the day, and we
are very sorry that we cannot be as complimentary
to his bleeding country. To the person who
doesn t know him, this white-headed, leonine old
gentleman is a touching and pathetic spectacle.
He is so distinguished-looking that pne could
tvr ll P°n bis neck and weep. If he, instead
of Minister Abigail, were our uncle, we should
weep. As Parkes is not our uncle, we reserve
our tears for the land in which he is the
chief and most venerated humbug. Sir Henry has
now lived in N S.W. close upon half-a-century ;
but he has not lived long enough in Australia to
learn anything useful about it, nor has he lived
long enough here to forget Brummagem. You .
cannot transplant an oak at 50 or a Parkes on any
account. When he landed at Sydney in the con-
vict days he was too old to learn and the colony
was too young to teach him anything that was
good for him to know.
The death-sentence passed upon Halley and
for assault upon a black woman at Lake
Condah, Vic., has been “ commuted ” to 18 years’
imprisonment, with hard labour, and two floggings
of 12 lashes each. Why ? If these two men have
done anything meriting death they certainly
ought to be confined for the term of their natural
lives. What is the use of locking convicts up for
18 years, turning them into fiends or breaking
them down physically by the torture of the lash—
\
I tyjplr
’ARRY.
and then turning them loose upon society once
more in their brutal old age ? When we hear of
such sentences as these we often wonder which is
the greater savage—the wretch who is flogged or
the highly-educated authority who, having incar-
cerated the alleged human tiger, proceeds to prod
J&JSg
irlg , itu , ion . N „ little of broadcloth “ dnds ”
was ever yet seen stacked beside a set of British
triangles
8
The leading spirits of the Australian Natives’
Association have assembled and met together in
Melbourne Town Hall to pronounce a genteel
curse “those members who have by their
x J ,■ „
acds expressed their disloyalty. The disloyalty
so vaguely referred to consisted in the refusal of
f) ve members to drink the Queen’s healtli at a
-H*"* I-* ‘"«o
same five were merely marking their disapproval
of monarchical government was not accepted, and
the natural inference is that the A.N.A. desires
“Australia for the Australians and the Queen for
us all> >, one ker introduced certain stereo .
. 1
typed drivel about the loyalty of a colony named
after his Patron Saint, another suggested casting
fqj-th the five men who “insulted” their blessed
Sovereign, and the rest tumbled over nne another
in a mad scramb i e to kiss the royal toe. Although
, , ~ ° ,
the cackle was ultimately boiled down into a vapid
(mhyjn, apropos of nothing in particular, the
A.JN.A. stands pledged, through its delegates, to
discourage any public profession of democratic
ldeaS %^° rd or T deed -. So far from introducing
an an t J dote to imperialism, as intended by its
real founders, the Association will assist in mixing
the pizon and reverently rise to drink it. The
well-meaning young Natives, who hold drinking
(f t ,ueen s health to be no more than a simple
ac o courtesy devoid of political significance,
, ia ' e ll( mV r ' scno . UH ly 'Studied the monarchical struc-
j Uiese miserable pomps and ceremonies are
ir , 10 , aH \ rei S ainil1 8' support of the Throne of
aiK ‘. Due yet more enlightened country-
Germany -has a throne resting upon bayonets and
ismuick, but the British piece of furniture is
10 f Court-suits, (rad save the Queen,
and “the usual loyal toasts.” If the A.N.A.
dream of Separation they must leave off playing
into the hands of the enemy. The Queen, save as
Queen, is known to scarcely anybody at all, and as
a private individual her health comes in along
with “ The Ladies—God bless ’em!”
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lhe N.Z. Opposition want a leader. This
is a splendid opportunity for Dibbs.
Mr. Milburn Creek Garrett, of all men
fathers the N.S.W. Payment of Members’ Bill.
What a satire 1
The population of New Zealand up to the
31st Mareh last, was 046,913. During last month
M)0 arrived and 1700 left the colony.
Griffith has just appointed 81) new Js.P.
for Queensland. Phis is taking a deep and gory
revenge for his recent capsize by the electors.
When an hon. member of the N.S.W.
Assembly calls attention to “the state of the
House, ’ he doesn’t necessarily mean that every-
body is drunk.
The N.S.W. Drink Commission, which
was useful only as a, means of putting fat fees
into the pockets of the members, has died a
natural death.
Sydney University Senate have decided to
establish an evening class for practical instruction
m the use of tools. The lectureship, we presume,
will be offered to Parkes.
G. R. Dibbs will probably be the next
Speaker of the N.S.W. Assembly. Outside of
politics no member is more esteemed than the ex-
leader of the Opposition party.
At St. Leonards a few nights ago, Sir
Henry Parkes spoke for over an hour on the
work of the .Government. ” No other man could
make so small a subject go so long a way.
A Temperance authority states that in six
years the expenditure on drink in the United
Kingdom would extinguish the national debt No
doubt—but how about the national drouth ’
The Palmerston (Q.) District Council has
let the contract for street-cleaning to a China-
man. He took it at £75 and the local white man
wanted £BO. Thus is the Aryan race sold for a
£5 note.
It is proposed to establish an ambulance
corps in connection with the Australian Natives
Association in Melbourne. _ The weak knees of
many members have necessitated the movement,
we presume.
( An old resident of China, lecturing on the
Chinese Question in Melbourne the other night,
said that Governor Loch was once a prisoner in
the hands of Tientsin rebels in company with one
Henry Parkes. Ho, ho ! revenge is sweet.
Britain has decided that she wants an ad-
dition of 144 swift cruisers to her navy, and that
her fleet should be increased by 40 per cent, an-
nually. This means that somebody proposes to
build 80 warships per year—or else the cable-liar
is at it again.
A certain friend of a certain Government
once asked a certain lawyer if he would not take
to the stump on behalf of the Ministry in ques-
tion during the approaching general election.
“ No,” replied the lawyer, “ I have retired from
criminal .practice. ”
A firm of engineers in Sydney write to the
Argus, expressing regret at not being able to ex-
hibit at Melbourne Exhibition. The letter con-
cludes with a hope that “the day is not far dis-
tant that will place N.S.W- on the same footing
as you are. ” Rather a nasty jar for the Freetrade
organ.
“ The funniest thing in the MHlwraith-
Griffith vendetta,” says the S.M. Herald, “ is
the grotesque development of the so-called
‘ National Party ’ —a figment compared with
which Mr. Purves and his Australian Natives are
intelligible and palpable beings.” Figment ! We
shall see!
An esteemed contemporary suggests that
it would be a grandly effective piece of magna-
nimity if Germany were to hand back Alsace and
Lorraine to France. So it would. We strongly
commend our brother to put a blue-pencil mark
around the idea and forward a copy of the paper
to Mr. Bismarck.
Here is a sentence from a leading article
in the Melbourne Age Nothing but fatty
degeneration of the brain could account for the
fatuous reply that he (one of the Ministers) made
to the large and influential deputation that waited
on him,” &c. The Government advertisements
are, apparently, slacking off in the Age.
Hay ter s statistics show that Victoria has
this year 187,667 acres of wheat more under crop
i *'T7i , yea , r ’, S lvin B' an increase in yield of
V ri 7° bushels, the total being 13,320,249
bushels. Of oats, 11,257 acres more have been
, th f corresponding increase in yield is
' ,60 bushels. Of potatoes, 23,725 tons more
were gathered than in 1886-87.
Costa Rica, the smallest of the Ameiican
lepubhcs, is said to have more Goernmentv
pressure to the square inch than any other State
in existence. It has one President, two Vice-presi-
dents, two Houses of Parliament, a Council, a
Supreme Court, and as many inferior courts as
there is standing room for. N.S.W., on the other
hand, is 12 times the size of Costa Rica, and it is
at present struggling along with nothing much
but Parkes.
I he S.M. Herald ascribes Victoria’s pros-
perity partly to the increase in the adult popula-
J’ulsfprd, on the other hand, says that
iN.b. Wales is leagues ahead of Victoria in the
number of male adults, and that Victoria is
tottering to her ruin became a misguided policy
has driven the young men from the colony, and
lelt toothless drivellers in their stead. We now
leave these two Freetrade authorities to sort the
difficulty out.
Ihe man who has been yearning for an
object in life has found one at last. He is observ-
mg the Queensland Railway Department. He says
it is just as interesting as ants. A person on the
riarcoo had some shafts and side-boards for a,
spring-cart sent him by _ rail, and was charged
carriage on four tons of timber. As this was the
minimum quantity the Commissioner (in theory)
was obliging enough to carry, the man had to
pay up accordingly.
Mr. Purves, President of the A.N.A., has
had the pluck to apologise for his Jingo ravings cf
last year. He now tells the Natives that “a
dream had taken possession of him” when he
talked Imperial Federation and trotted out the
British lion at a Brassey banquet. The dream,
perhaps, developed into a nightmare, with Brassey
sitting on his chest, while the British lion sucked
his blood—anyway, Purves woke up with altered
views concerning the dear old mother country and
military glory.
The Age in a recent leader on the Aus-
tralian Natives’ Association, says :
“ The dominant faction in N.S.W. seems wedded to a
policy of colonial isolation, and its chiefs have made suc-
cessful efforts to frustrate all the attempts at Australian
union. . . . The antipathy to co-operation with Vic-
tona displayed by men like Sir Henry Parkes and Sir
John Robertson must have a weight of public feeling lie-
hind it, and that it has is shown by the tone of the Press
and of the speeches in Parliament. It is, no doubt, true
that the feeling has been carefully cultivated in the sup-
posed interests of the importers, who foresee a common
protective tariff as the inevitable result of the Federation ;
but from whatever cause it has arisen the presence of the
Separatist sentiment in N.S.W. is undeniable.”
An Irish correspondent to one of the
Sydney dailies points out that the Pope’s decree,
even if it be recognised by the Irish Catholics and
obeyed to the very letter,, will not stop Home
Rule agitation in Ireland. Some of the foremost
battlers for self-government in that unhappy
country are Protestants, who want but an incen-
tive of the kind furnished by the Pope’s mani-
festo to the Irish Catholics to impel them to any
self-sacrifice to attain their object. The Nation-
alist Protestants have in their ranks such staunch
men as Parnell, Professor Galbraith, Swift,
M‘Neill, Win, Jordan, Dr. Tanner, and hundreds
of others, to whom the Papal ukase will only ap-
pear as a challenge, a piece of priestly arrogance
defying them to do their best.
Thus the ’Erald on ’Enniker ’Eaton ;
“ The ‘treaty ’ question touched by Mr. Heaton is one
that Sir Henry Parkes has already partially solved. Let
us then go one step farther than the Premier, and make
Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P. for Canterbury, the envoy
extraordinary of the Australian colonies to signify to the
Queen our assent to or dissent from any proposed exer-
cise of her prerogative in making or annulling treaties
with the Emperor of China. _ I would not go farther than
that at present. If he satisfies us as a diplomatist in
Chinese questions, the colonies might agree to extend his
commission, and give him plenipotentiary’s powers and
emoluments to match. Mr. Heaton’s immortal services in
connection with the Soudan expedition (which, by the
bye, it is a pity that Mr. Walter Cooper is not alive to
commemorate) deserve no less an acknowledgment than
that he should be at once installed at the Court of St.
James’s as our ambassador, and in the House of Commons
as our spokesman. As to Mr. Joseph, his criticism of Mr.
Heaton may be disregarded. The personage he wished to
vilipend in the Legislative Council is a man of whom (in
the words of Johnson’s epitaph on Goldsmith) it may be
said, 1 Nullum quod tetigit non ornavit’— from penny
postage down to barmaids, from the expropriation of
press-messages to the storming of a Government picnic.”
“ Citizen Lisbonne,” of Paris, has not been
received in London in the way he desired. This
is the gentleman who attended one of President
Carnot's receptions in a coat that smelt so strongly
of petroleum that he had to be turned out. The
other day, on his arrival in London, he sent his
card, inscribed “Lisbonne, ex-Communisb con-
vict,” to the Queen and Prince of Wales, and was
not a little surprised when two detectives called
on him and asked him what he meant. This
appears to have hurt “ Citizen ” Lisbonne’s feel-
ings, for he at once indited a letter to the Prince,
sending a copy of it to the Paris papers :
85, Charlotte-street, Fitzroy-square, London,
March, 31, 1888.
Citizen Prince,—l sent you my card on my arrival in
London siihply because, as a Frenchman, I could not
forget one of the few Powers who are friendly to Prance •
1c was a, mere act of courtesy due to you. Your two
secretaries who called on me this morning seem to think
1 had some hidden motive. I only asked the gentlemen
at what time you were in the habit of lunching and how
I could arrange to join vou at your meal. Of course, T
should have put on the petroleumised coat in which I had
ihe honour of calling on Citizen Carnot, President of the
Republic.—Greeting and fraternity, Maxime Lisbonne.
FEARFUL GALE AT SEA.
A SHIP STRUCK BY A TIDAL WAVE.
The American ship Elwell, which reached Port
Jackson on Sunday, encountered a fearful tidal
wave, which rushed on board and threatened to
engulf the vessel. To escape the sea was a matter
of impossibility. The sea came up and broke 10ft.
over the rail, sending the spray 20ft. high. The
sea washed the iron capstan head off and sent it
overboard, together with the bulwarks, boards and
boats, as soon as the mountain wave did its work.
The gale continued with great fury. The ship
was kept running at a speed of ten knots an hour.
The vessel contained a valuable cargo, which
caused the captain great anxiety on account of
1080 casks of that life-saving beverage the famous
St. Louis Lager Beer, which was stored below,
and which had been all sold before the vessel
reached the wharf. The new shipments of this
famous Beer excel anything that has ever been
shipped to Australia.


4< /*
An In-auger-al Fizzle.
“ The office was separated
from the premises occupied by
the accused by only a thin
partition This partition was
perforated with two holes, bored
with an augur, and through these,
unobserved by those who fre-
quented the premises occupied
by the accused, they watched
what was going on.”—Evidence
for ihe Sydney Social Purity
Society, as reported in the Daily
Press.
*
“And Godiva, the wife of
Leo h ie, rode, as she had said,
divested of her raiment, mounted
on her milk-white palfrey, through
the town of Coventry, and only
one person ventured to peep
forth and he was straightway
smitten with blindne s.”—Old
Chronicle.


The Imperialistic Bugbear.
NURSE BRITANNIA: “ O’, YOU MUST STOP ALONG WITH NURSE. IF YOU RON AWAY THE BIG BEAR WILL CATCH YOU!"
YOUNG AUSTRALIA: "YOU CAN'T FRIGHTEN ME ANY MORE WITH YOUR ‘BEARS.’ THAT’S A STUFFED ’UN. AND ID RATHER BE EATEN BY A STUFFED BEAR THAN A LIVE LION ANY TIME.
f'
dsf


nimiDDU is an inflammation of the mucous
U A i a. Jtli lb II membrane of the nose and throat,
and unless cured will destroy every faculty and function
of its victim. Catareiibank is an infallible cure, bold
° v Washington Soul and all chemists. Full particulars
(rom F. M. Glkmknts Newtown, N.S.W.
Claremont, Darlinghurst Road, Sydney. ~A private
Medical and Surgical Home, established by Dr. Tarrant,
for the reception and systematic treatment of patients of
both se\es. The residents, who are provided with separate
bedrooms, derive the great advantages of a constant medi-
cal supervision with the care and attention of a trained
nursing staff. For particulars apply to the lady Superin-
tendent.
Study your own interest by using I’emell’s Snow-white
Patent Holler Flour. It is made in the colony from the
best colonial wheat by the newest patented machinery.
The quality is exceptionally good, and the price very low.
W. H. PALING
AND CO., LIMITED
Established 1853.
Are as usual showing the largest and
best assorted stock of
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
AND
Musical Instruments,
Which they are selling at extremely low prlcea
for cash, or upon
TIME PAYMENTS to SUIT CUSTOMERS.
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED
Special attention is called to the following
EXCEPTIONALLY first-class and reliable instru-
ments :
HEBEI ml LECHLEITEE PIANOS.
The Wonderful VICTOR PIANOS.
THE BEAUTIFUL TONED
ESTET E Co. AMERICAN ORGANS.
New and improved models of other makers
just received, also an immense assort-
ment of new and popular music.
Better Value cannot be
Obtained Elsewhere.
Ilustrated catalogues mailed on application, but
enquirers are requested to give SOME IDEA of
the class of instrument required so as to ensure
receiving a suitable reply.
W.H. PALING & CO-, UL
856 GEORGE STREET, three Doors from Q.P.O,
Society
Mrs. Lowe, who is a leading member of
the Extreme Left of the Melbourne Woman’s
Suffrage Society, says that “ when men wish to be
effective they dress like women.” The gifted lady
was then referring to judges, barristers, and uni-
versity professors. She should remember, how-
ever, that they don’t wear bustles yet. For the
benefit of Mrs. Lowe and other strong-minded
ladies of the Society, we may remark that nobody
has seen a properly-dressed corpse in trousers.
" And a corpse is generally effective, in its own
little way. The double garment is the symbol of
civilisation! Woman is still in the East. And
now we are going to make a perfectly true but uu-
gallant remark. If women dressed as men, the
marriage-rate would drop 50 per cent, in a twelve-
month. Happy is the man who discovers that
his wife isn’t knock-kneed.
« *
Mr. Andrew Hardie M'Culloch, j unr.,
solicitor, who was last week struck off the N.S.W.
Supreme Court rolls for alleged misappropria-
tion of trust-funds, was, until very lately, a very
opulent man, with a seat in Parliament, and as
large a practice as any attorney in Sydney. Of
late years, Mr. M'Oulloch has become heavily in-
volved through bad speculations and accommodat-
ing others, and not long ago an application was
made for the sequestration of his estate. While
admitting the apparent justice of the heavy
punishment with which he has been visited (the
offence, if committed by a layman, might have
carried with it criminal prosecution), there are
many who have cause to remember the open-
handed generosity of the afflicted lawyer in former
days, and to deeply regret the unhappy circum-
stances which now place him before the public as
an example to those who are too weak to resist the
temptation of speculating on their own account
with moneys belonging to their clients.
* * *
Mrs. Montague Smith : “Now you will be
sure to come, will you not, Captain Hamilton?
Only a little family affair, you know. Come quite
sans culottes.” Captain H. : “Ah! yes. Delighted,
I’m sure.”
* * *
Governor Carington the other day lost the
jewel of his Order of St. Michael-and St. George,
but it was found, to everybody’s intense satisfac-
tion, by an old official who, the daily press affec-
tingly remarks, “stoutly refused any reward, ” and
the Governor nobly sent him an autograph letter
of thanks. From this it would appear- that the
Order, though like “the toad ugly and venomous,”
“ hath still a precious jewel in its head.”
From .the Melbourne Age “ Man,
young, well-bred, offers services, generally use-
ful.” He should have added : “ Unable to pro-
nounce the letter ‘ r.’ ” But why doesn’t he start
as a Tutor of Deportment in Toorak (happy
thought—Toorak Turveydrop) ? Private lessons,
strictest secresy, &c. &c. He would be filling up the
yawn of a long felt want in that haughty suburb.
* *
The Cupid of the Maoleayis “mashing ’em”
in Melbourne, we notice. The Herald says ;
“ Mr. R. Burdett Smith lost an overcoat and a
pair of gloves—one of the gloves was found sub-
sequently — at Menzies’ Hotel.” Taken as
souvenirs, without a doubt. The overcoat will
probably be raffied in square inches at the next
church bazaar. Triolet :
By the way, Burclett seems to be thought even
more of in Melbourne than in his electorate. A
Burdett in the city is worth two in the bush. Eh ?
The language of the pure Australian is
one of I his strong points. The large red oaths
which he scatters round in the intervals of con-
versation and his ceaseless desire to dash every-
thing to eternal blazes and then dash it back
ao-ain, are painfully exciting to the stranger who
is°unacquainted with the modes of expression used
in these parts, and it takes him some years to
o-i-ow accustomed to the profound Australian calm
which consists in blaspheming down three streets
an d then having six drinks and upsetting a China-
man. Some people, in fact, never do grow accus-
tomed to it. For instance, there was a social
event the other day up South : a lucky cattle-man,
who had invested his pile in the purchase of an
estate invited all the elite of the neighbourhood
to a grand entertainment, and they assembled in
evening dress, a number of ladies and a couple of
priests among the number. And when one of the
spiritual lanterns had said grace, and tlm host
o-rasped the soup-ladle and said cheerfully,- Now,
boys which of you adjective blanks is on for soup ?
it was noticed that quite a surprised expression
flitted over many faces ; and when the owner of
the house remarked agreeably that he had a
dashed sheol of an anathematised cook, seven
ladies left without eating anything at all.
* * *
\ whisky-advertisement in the Melbourne
papers run “ Finest selected old Scotch whisky,
as supplied to the British Houses of Parliament.'’
Thi* may be a good recommendation, but for our
own part we would rather have the brand of
whisky supplied to the Presbyterian assemblies.
They know.
* * #
A rev. gentleman living at Oakleigh,
Melbourne, was somewhat put out while com-
posing an impromptu sermon the other night by a
man being shot at his back door. He did not ad-
minister religious consolation—he went for a
policeman. Then it was discovered that the
murdered party was only a stuffed man—an
effigy. Anathema is a feeble saying and
maranatha a weakling of a word when compared
with the remarks which that rev. gentleman has
made,
A pretty, romantic story comes from Scot-
land—a confused, murky story with pathos in it
and a suggestion of spooks and fiends. A young
man with plenty of money got married in Glas-
gow to a girl in white with a pretty face and baby
curls all over her head, and they were happy—so
happy. They started off on their wedding tour,
and put up at a hotel in Stirling, and next morn-
ing the bridegroom left the nuptial-chamber in a
half-dressed condition to shove a cat off the
window-sill of the sitting-room adjoining. He
never came back to collect the rest of his clothes
or his hat or anything else, and he has never been
heard of since. When his distracted wife roused
the house and sent for the police, all she could say
was that the cat was still there and he was gone.
And he still continues to be gone. Apparently
something swallowed Mm up.
• • •
Shoe-dealer (to boy); “Where are you
going, James?” James: “Up to Mrs Smith’s,
sir; she ordered a pair of No. 2 shoes sent.”
Shoe-dealer: “ All right, James. You had better
take along a pair of No. 3’s also.”
• • •
A curious action, we hear, is about to be
brought by the Victorian Railway Department
against the owner of a certain cow. It seems this
cow ran over the Heidelberg train and injured the
driver and the guard, who were asleep at the
time. The defence is that the cow was in a hurry
to get home and be milked. The Heidelberg
Railway, we may mention, was built for the con-
venience of the inhabitants of the northern
suburbs of Melbourne, and the trains run by a
circuitous but picturesque route (overlooking a
considerable amount of delectable property owned
by politicians of stainless character) at the furious
pace of four hours a mile, or thereabouts. It has
been suggested by some of the wicked wags who
' >or t stt rffjf.,/nt
/ ° ur tfjj-
%\"
live out that way that plumes should be put on the
carriages, and that they should have the Frankston
cemetery as a terminus.
* * *
Somebody with a sensitive ear wants to
know what the Phlegethon is to be done with the
peal of bells ordered for Melbourne Post-office.
Set them up in the turret of the Deaf and Dumb
Asylum.
* * ♦
Melbourne Herald observes: “Recently
quite a cycle of infanticide has set in.” A cry-
cycle, we suppose.
* * •
Says Melbourne Age : —“Princes of the
Blood cannot very well go into the city in
search of a living.” Why not ? There should be
plenty of scope in the butchering business. This
reminds us. There was living in a N.S.W.
country town, some years ago, a publican with
two very handsome daughters. “No,” was his
reply to a substantial farmer, who asked for the
handofoaeof them, “I don’t care for money.
What I want for my daughter is blood.” “ Then
marry her to a butcher,” said the farmer.
• * *
Ada: “I had ten offers of marriage last
week.” Ella; “ How monotonous and persistent
of Jack! ”
* * •
That poor little bashed Greek, David de
Bensaude, the husband of Violet Cameron, who
is a friend of Lord Lonsdale, has got into trouble
some more. He dropped into the theatre where
his wife was playing, and wanted to tear down
the sun and moon and kick the stars into shivers,
and he made remarks about his wife’s morals in
the stalls, and cursed Lord Lonsdale in the dress-
circle, and blasphemed in the pib until at last the
audience arose and he was thrown out. He also
called at his wife’s residence and a man named
Harris opened the door. The pair conversed
fluently for a time, and then entered into calis-
thenics on the pavement, the result being that De
Bensaude was licked for about the seventeenth
time. He called somewhere else, and wanted to
see his child, and finally all the parties were run
in. De Bensaude’s life consists almost entirely in
being licked and run in, and he is trodden-on by
the British peerage more than any other man of
his size.
* • •
At the auction of Marie Regnault, who
was murdered in Paris by Pranzini, a bundle,
with some trashy curiosities, was knocked down
to a rag-and-bone woman. In the lot was a bustle,
in ripping up which the purchaser found the £4OO
worth of debentures which it was known Marie
Regnault had in her possession, but which, not
being found after she was murdered, were a cause
of perplexity to the prosecution and the jury.
* •
From “Dagonet” : —Listening to one of
General Booth’s captains—a feminine one—the
other day. I heard her call upon the members of
the “band” to “ bear testimony”; and when it
came to the turn of a fifteen-year old blower at an
instrument quite as big as himself, he simply laid
his hand upon the" part of his waistcoat that
covered his heart, and said, “ I thank ’ haven as
this’ere theayter is under entirely new manage-
ment I ”
. • •
The contagion spreads — even woman is
affected by it. Chicago has now produced the
dreaded female prize-fighter—Annie Burneck by
name. She declares herself able and willing to
meet any other living woman in a twenty-four
foot ring.
• •
It is always well to hear both sides of the
question. Here is the-criminal's side : —Says the
Philadelphia Ledger The agitation for the
substitution of electricity for the rope in the
execution of condemned criminals is met by a
counter movement in an unexpected quarter.
Several prisoners under sentence of death in New
York gaols have been interviewed on the subject,
and they are for electricity with unanimous
enthusiasm.
* '* •
The history of the cancellation of Book-
maker Sutton’s presentation at Court (the Queen’s
Court, not the police-court) appears to be this.
When Sutton—his name in England is Robert
Standish Sievier —got “home” from Australia,
he became engaged to marry a girl whose rela-
tives ‘ ‘ were much distressed to see in a London
newspaper an outline of his adventurous career
at the Antipodes,” said account including the
story of his divorce at Melbourne. Then the en-
gagement was broken off. The mischief, we
gather from the newspaper which stirred up the
mud in England, was assiduously fomented by
certain “brother-officers” of Sievier’s, who met
him in Australia, while he was book-making.
Who these officers were everyone in Australia will
readily guess. Sievier owed money for bets when
he left England, but since his return has dis-
charged all liabilities in full. Says the English
paper alluded to
“Sutton’s career in Australia may be learnt by the
curious on inquiry at the Colonial Office, by turning up
the Melbourne newspapers, which contained an account
of a very bad divorce case in which Sievier, alias Sutton,
was charged with cruelty and desertion ; or by consulting
the secretary of the Victoria Jockey Club, who refused to
renew Sutton’s license as a bookmaker, in consequence of
information given him bp officers of a regiment quartered
in Melbourne at the time. Lord Deerhurst, who was not
long since touting in Australia with Lord Dudley, would
also, no doubt, be happy to give particulars as to his ex-
periences of the same individual.”
Perhaps Lord Deerhurst would likewise be happy
to give full particulars as to the method in which
Sievier’s clients discharged their pigeon-shooting
liabilities ; also, as to the sort of justice meted out
by Stipendiary Panton in his police-court. No-
body in Australia, who is not a snob of the
meanest kind, will be likely to accept his lordship
Viscount Deerhurst as an unprejudiced authority
on the character of the man who publicly smacked
his colossal cheek.
*
Fr m an English Paper:—Thanks to the
liberality of an Australian gentleman (Mr. Thomas
Holt), Mr. Harrison, the director of the Mission
held at Bloomsbury Hall, Soho, has been enabled
tliis winter to distribute dinners to 1100 sandwich-
men, 1100 widows, 550 seamstresses, 400 cripples,
and a large number of the unemployed ; whilst, in
addition, 1100 florins have been distributed
amongst widows, and 1000 shawls-, 750 cardinal
jackets, 500 pairs of gloves, 3000 New Testaments,
and (1000 copies of religious periodicals to other
applicants.
* * *
A new novel is called “A Lady’s Four
Wishe*.” An old bachelor says he hasn’t read the
book, but he knows what her wishes are ; “First,
a new bonnet; second, a new bonnet; third, a new
bonnet; fourth, a new bonnet! ”
• • •
Fascinating female pawnbroker (a widow
using the privilege of the year) : “ Mr. Augustus,
I lufs you. Vill you pe mein huspant ? ” Augustus
(firmly): “No, Mrs. Solomon Levi; you can only
be an uncle to me.”
• • •
Judge : “ You say you want a divorce from
your wife ? ” “ Yes, if your honor please.' ’ “ Bub
reflect for a moment that you have lived together
nearly half a century.” “ Well, haven’t I suffered
long enough.”
* *
Draw a long breath, please ! Now '
“ Middleton—St. John. —On the 17th May, at the
Registrar-General’s Office, Brisbane, Charles Sharp Mid-
dleton, third son of Charles Sharp Middleton, author, of
London, and Amy Ann, daughter of Francis Haynes, to
Florence Genevieve St. John, youngest daughter of Vane
Treton Shaftesbury St. John, author, of London, and
Eliza Catherine, youngest daughter of Safory and Bar-
bara Middleton, and niece of Sir Spenser St. John,
K.C.M.G., and Percy B. St. John, the author, and grand-
daughter of James Augustus St. John. (Home papers
please copy).
Young man (in a loud tone of voice) :
“ Aw—waiter, have you quail on toast ? ” Waiter:
“Yes, sir.” Young man (in a low tone of voice):
“Bring me some of the toast.”
* * *
A bogus advertisement in a London paper
for clerks at £l5O a year fetched thousands of re-
plies. Three thousand aspirants for the gorgeous
billets forwarded an advance of ss. to the adver-
tiser, who had a wager depending on his little
joke.
• * *
‘ ‘ I heard an elderly lady the other even
ing,” says a writer in Galionani, “ plead her age
with Mr. Rider Haggard as a reason why he
should give her an explanation of the meaning of
‘She.’ ‘Well,’ said Mr. Haggard, ‘there are
many explanations, but perhaps the best is that
women are vain. Ayesha was vain.. She liked to
dazzle men with her charms, and finally her vanity
was the cause of her death.’ So that is the hidden
meaning of the Sherd of Amenartas and all the
rest of it. Here some of us have bsep diving to
the depths of occultism for an explanation, and
we learn that we need but have looked on the
surface of everyday life —the ‘vanity of women’
reveals all.”
* »
Dr. Bromby, of Melbourne, preached to a
large congregation of firemen last Sunday week,
and “was pleased to be privileged to address”
them. “We are all of us fire-fighters, my
brethren,” he is alleged to have said. It is plea-
sant to see that the rev. doctor harbours no pro-
fessional jealousy.
♦ ♦
A committee-man for a local candidate,
walking down a street in Gympie (Q.) the other
day, remarked, concerning a gentleman who
passed him : “ There goes another political par-
son.” The parson turned round immediately and
requested him to apologise or settle the matter in
a back room; whereupon the committee-man_
apologised most humbly. The Bulletin likes
parsons who can fight. Mercy and kindness
when dispensed to you by a weak man who is
your physical inferior, suffer a heavy discount.
On the other hand, a good action performed for
your benefit by a man to whom it would give no
trouble to “shift your ear” becomes a thing of
beauty and a joy for ever.
• •
A Western (American) Judge has decided
that people may fry onions, even if it is disagree-
able to the neighbours.
Cupid lost an overcoat
And a calfskin-glove ;
Country papers kindly quote
Cupid lost an overcoat.
That will show you how they dote
On tins kink-haired Love ;
Cupid lost an overcoat
And a calfskin glove.


Among toe many improvements we have noticed in the
city is that of the well-known and old-established Royal
Hyde Park Hotel, corner of Bathurst and Elizabeth streets,
opposite Hyde Park, Sydney. The proprietor, Mr. M.
SIiAUVBr, Jias spared no expense to make bis hotel the first
When next you bake try Pemell’s Snow-white Patent
Roller Flour, and your bread wil be as white as snow.
Everybody should use Pemel’s latest, best Snow-wiiith
Patent Roller Flour. It is the greatest success of the
age.
Ev
best
Everybody says—and what everybody says must be true
that Pemell’s Snow-white Patekt Roller Flour is
in the market.*
[?]
840 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, June 0, 1888.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
In deep black ink I chronicle the sad fact that Lady
Carington (and Lord C., too, for that matter) was “ At
Home,” on 31st ult. to all such as by dint of enquiries,
bumps of locality, or compasses, could find their way to
Government House. Her ladyship received in the inner-
room, and wore a black silk dress, black bonnet and tan
gloves, and was gracious and universally amiable, as per
usual. The reception was well attended, and some of the
women looked as though they really had forgotten they
had nice clothes on—which is a good sign, and a mark of
that higher civilisation which, in Australia, we pretend to
have and —generally speaking—haven't. Miss Dundas in
the same frock and hat she wore to the races was quietly
chic. Charming Mrs. M'Millan wore heavy furs ; Mrs. J
M. Creed, dark-blue, with a bonnet-trimming of red anc
blue stripes ; Miss Nellie Cox, grey and brown fur boa
Another pretty society girl in electric grey uniquely ornate
with deep green velvet. A handsome woman in dark-blue
serge, with white serge panel embroidered in gold. A
slate silk blended with embossed and striped velvet
bonnet cn suite, and dozens of others, red, 1 am glad to
say, being but sparsely represented. Of course there was
some atrocious dressing, a carrotty cotton “Chow” cos-
tume, with the hand of the amateur dressmaker visible
all over it, preaching quite a homily on w hat not to wear
The übiquitous “E.W.,” of the “educated walk,” made
himself agreeable in an unbecoming set of tennis-flannels.
John Davies was there in a Coonan—l mean a tall silk
hat; the resigned Dibbs also ; and Lord Bertie (they
say he is going to marry somebody before very
long), in , spioe-ooloured walking attire, wasn’t a
quarter as fetching as he is in his gaudy uniform. Speak-
ing of his lordship, what do you think I overheard ? Two
women, who were so shockingly uninformed that they
didn’t know the pensive aide even by sight, remarked
him. “Who is he?” asked the prettier of the two.
“Don’t you know?” answered the other, scornfully.
“ He’s one of the clerks in the Stamp Duties, dear.”
Somebody has been telling me quite a number of
interesting stories lately about the Australian “at
’ome.” One of them is about A, who was the
son of his father, who in turn was a New Zealand
Judge. A went ’ome to have a look at the ancestral bog-
lands. It happened to be winter, but his pretty cousins
braved the storm and took him to see some of the Wick-
low forest-scenery. “Is it not lovely?” they asked in
chorus. “ Ye-e-s,” answered A, regarding the view from
his colonial stand-point. “ Some fellow’s had a good big
job of ring-barking.”
And then there was B. He was a Banana-man, with a
cross of the sugar-cane. In the Bristol express he met a
singular adventure—he discovered an affable Englishman.
“ Come from Queensland, sir?”
“ Yes.”
“ Know man named Jones there ?”
“ No. Never heard of him.”
“ Surprised at that. ’B’s been living there for the last
1” months.”
“ Indeed. What street ?”
But poor dear C, from Sydney, with his high-toned
loyalty, and XXX Imperialism, what a shock that vulgar
London cabby gave him ! He was hastening in a hansom
to catch a train, when a block in the traffic and a vast
cheering crowd presented an insuperable barrier to
further progress. Hearing the driver cheerlessly swear-
ing overhead, C poked his slim umbrella (quite the Bond-
street style, dontcherknow) through the trap in the roof,
and asked :
“ What is it, cabby- ? What’s the cause of delay ? ”
“It’s the Hempress Brown a-passin’, sir,” was the
answer that made C wonder how vulgar people can be—
even in London.
According to what I hear, probably the most agreeable
man in all Australia to borrow money from is Sir William
Clarke, Baronet, of Melbourne, He lends his signature
affably and without “putting on side” whenever the
applicant can show anything like reasonable cause, and
he (the baronet) never worries about it afterwards.
Neither, in most oases, does the other fellow. Not
long ago a young gentleman who found himself in low
water applied to the East Melbourne potentate for the
“ temporary use ” of £2O, and the pleasant millionaire
wrote out his cheque at once and held it thought-
fully between his finger and thumb and looked at it.
Then he looked meditatively at the young man and sized
him up. “Now,” he said slowly, “I lend you this, my
dear sir, on one condition only. You may be able to pay
it back soon, or you may pay it back late, or something
may happen w-hich will prevent you from paying it back
at all. But however that may be—w-hether it’s soon or
late, or not at all —never cross the street when you see me
coming." The borrower recognised Sir William as a
‘ white man,” and promised, and only two days later he
went back on his generous patron. Sir William was
coming slowly down the street on one side, and the little
man was coining up at a run on the opposite pavement.
Their eyes met, and the much-obliged and grateful indi-
vidual straightway crossed the street and asked if the
baronet could spare another £2O.
The latest trick for increasing the bliss of a “ swagger ”
bride comes from Brisban', where, a sweet thing was
turned off last week during w-hat is the lunch-hour in
millinery and dressmaking circles. My correspondent
tells me that the young persons mustered at the ceremony
to the last lady, and were stylishly liberal "ith rice and
remarks.
I read that Renata Kawepa, the N.Z. Maori who died
the other day, left a “ solid quarter of a million ’of
money behind him, and now there is to be a lawsuit over
the fortune between his nieces. Apropos, some years
since a rather plain half-caste Maori girl put up at a
boarding-house in Wynyard-square, Sydney. At the
same table there happened to sit a newly-arrived Eng-
lish civil engineer, a handsome young fellow on whom
the dusky one oast loving eyes. This went on for several
days until the arrival at the hash-emporium of a country
girl, over whom, as she was believed to be “a squatter’s
daughter,” the engineer made a great deal of fuss, much
to the annoyance of the Maori. Presently the latter
heard that the British Adonis had said something very
uncomplimentary about her colour, and presently also
the Adonis aforesaid discovered that the copper-coloured
lady had at least £400,000 in her own right. Then he
smiled on her and offered to pass the mustard ; but she
said, “ No, thanks ; the servant will do that” —adding,
probably to herself, “ My gold would not be too copper-
coloured for you, dear sir.”
Those two Tongans who constituted the "draw ” of the
Melbourne Wesleyan Conference are now in Sydney.
The woman, Rachel, has suffered more in the cause of
her religion than any missionary would, I’m sure. Rather
than repudiate Wesleyanism she had the whole of her
teeth knocked down her throat for one thing, and her
household confiscated for another. At the Conference
these two were eyed with the pitying eye of superiority
by the sleek and safe whites. Pooh 1 There’s not one
single white Wesleyan as noble and devoted as are black
“ David Tonga ” and his constant wife 1 But their faith is
safe here. In Sydney we don’t persecute the extreme
pietists. No ; they persecute us. I tried to dine at the
Baden-Baden at Ooogee on a recent Sunday. I say
"tried,” because they dared not allow me to wash down a
really excellent dinner with a tumbler of claret, as such
would have been contrary to the rules of the Social
Purity Society, the gentlemen who bore auger-holes into
their neighbours’ houses.
On 30th ult the Randwick “ social bees ” held their first
gathering in the local Town Hall. The Queen Bee, for
dress and tout ensemble, was, undoubtedly, Mrs. Harris
of Randwick, who wore a Melbourne gown of cream satin
stripes on a lace ground, gold braid waistcoat, tan shoes
and bouquet on the left shoulder. A white ostrich
feather fan completed a chic get-up. The two honorary
secretaries wore respectively black satin and passemen
terie bodice with black lace skirt boldly festooned with
gold cord ; and black beaded material trimmed with pink
ostrich feathers; Miss Jessie Wills, eau-de-nil satin
covered with net en suite ; Miss Flo Firth, “crushed
strawberry ” bodice over a striped skirt; Misses Walforc
(2), yellow tulle skirts, satin bodice and ribbons cn suite
Mrs. Lowe (Mayoress), black silk and passementerie ; Mrs
Kiss, black silk and superlative diamonds. The floor was
splendid, the music delightful, and refreshments were
served (up two flights of stairs, narrow and steep enough
to lead to the Golden Gates) by Gompagnoni, who, I an
sorry to say, wasn’t at his very best.
Here is a story I have just heard about a certain well
known judge whose appetite was a household word. Mine
host of aoertain country “Royal” hotel had heard rumours
of his guest’s capacity and determined to treat him regally
-- or judicially, as you please. So he dished up a dinner
of many courses and no menu, and His Honor ate plenti
fully of the gooel things until at length came on the eight!
course—some delicious game—the cherished bonne bouche
of the ermined dignitary. Then the judge laid down his
implements and rang the bell furiously for the landlord
“Funford!” he articulated reproachfully, “ to think tha'
I should have satisfied myself with those other things, no
knowing what was coming! Funford!”—and here his
Honor’s voice sank to a piteous appeal—“ why, why didn’t
you have a minul”
Speaking of judges—a N.S.W. District Court Judge
travelling on circuit to a back-blocks town fell in with an
entertaining stranger who was going to the same destina
tion, They got on adrrrirably, and the authority on
Blaekstone and Coke became quite charmed and voter
him the most agreeable companion in the world. Arrived
the stranger asked*“ His Honor” how long he was going
to stay in the township. “Three days,” was the reply
“ Same time as myself,” said the stranger, effusively.
“ I’ve come to the Quarter Sessions over a cattle-duffing
case. The fact is” (confidentially) “I’ve come to be
tried. They say I stole the bullocks, and—you seem a
trustworthy sort—between ourselves, I did—but they
can’t prove it, and I’m bound to get off.” Next day his
trial came on, and picture the awful consternation of the
accused when he saw—sitting on the bench—the man to
whom, only the night before, he had communicated his
dread secret! But the Judge was not going to use that
unofficial statement against him. The jury found “ not
guilty,” and his Honor acquitted the quaking prisoner
without a smile on his countenance, merely remarking,
with a faint cough, “ You are found not guilty.”
On Friday, Lord and Lady Carington and suite went
riding in that abomination of desolation (at present) the
Centennial Park. Her Ladyship looks as charming in the
saddle as out of it, and always wears a white veil, which
very much relieves the general hardness of the pitiless
hat which all women—be they round-faced or elongated-
don with a surprising unanimity when on horseback. Speak-
ing of riding—why do not the ladies who go out with the
hounds adopt those smart “pink” coats that give Eng-
lish hunting-fields so bright an appearance ?
On 29th ult., Miss Reddall and Mr. Hillyard were
married at St. Andrew’s Cathedral at 2.30 p.m. The
bride wore white silk, with curved draperies and long
train. Her bridesmaids (four) outvied Charlotte Corday,
being attired in blood-red liberty silk, cream Leghorn
hats, with cream ribbons and tips; huge baskets of
flowers completed their woe. Mrs. Maccabe (aunt
of the blushing bride) was in black surah and
black bonnet with primrose feathers. A Moss Vale
lady in dark-blue and figured bonnet en suite, and a
pretty “ society ” girl in electric-blue and quaint
“granny” bonnet to correspond, looked unaffectedly
charming. The wedding breakfast was served at Need’s
rooms.
There is in a very large Sydney circle no better known
or more popular man than Mr. Leslie Ogilby, secretary of
the Port Jackson Steamship Co. I regret to hear that he
is now lying very ill of typhoid fever at the Southern
Club.
A Sydney Morning Herald advertisement says :
“ Mr, J, Mash,—Meet friend at Arcade to-night, at 1
o’clock.” If ever a name “ gave a name away ” his does !
“ Mash.” 1 should think so !
Sydney Hunt Club had a Parramatta run on Saturday,
and one lady (Miss Lloyd) was in at the death. The
master took some very stiff timber like a bird and nobody
had a shadow of a spill.
More deep-seated sorrow awaits the impecunious
“dude” who escorts his girl to Sydney Criterion
than he is aware of till the end of the first act. Then
comes round an imp who seductively dangles high-priced
bonbonieres which his pansy-blossom gazes on with a
famished eye, though when tremulously asked to par-
take she generally weakly refuses. The end, however,
must be sad and expensive for everyone but the lady and
the sweets-vending atrocity.
On 6th June Miss Sara Stevenson, of Maridale, Punt-
road, South Yarra, Melbourne, was united to Mr. D. J.
Seymour, Commissioner of Police, Brisbane. “A
policeman’s lot is not a happy one ” misses fire in this
instance.
In Narandera (N.S.W.) local society is appallingly
select, and to be engaged in trade is a woeful disqualifica-
tion. One leading and respected townsman who followed
the gaudy calling-of a butcher was once visited by a
deputation of the crime de la creme, who regretted his
“ debarrment ” from sassiety, and magnanimously told
him that if he would only condescend to substitute some
other name than his own on his billheads and sign-board
he would gladly be allowed to enter the lofty local whirl.
The butcher, however, refused, and at latest advices was
still in the outer darkness.
Those extremely long-handled parasols are quite the
thing just now, though I cannot say they appeal to me
very strongly. They look like alpenstocks, or brooms,
and are very awkward to manipulate in vehicles. One
small Sydney girl—seen at every social function—who
carries an exceptionally elongated handle —is only about an
inch taller than her parasol ! A naughty boy who earns a
precarious and uncertain livelihood in vending camphor
met this divinity in Hunter-street a little while ago,
marching along with her preposterous sunshade, and
straightway the gamin squealed, “ 1 ley, umbreller 1
where’re yer takin the gal to?’ And, really, that’s just
what this latest vagary of Fashion suggests to the observer.
The London Gaiety Company is now en route for Aus-
tralia, and I suppose Sydney shop-windows will shortly
teem with portraits of new burlesque angels, and “Nellie
Farren ” will be as often on the cigarette-scented lips of
the Antipodean dudes as “ Minnie Palmer ” was last year.
And, speaking of the Beauties of Burlesque, pretty little
Amy Horton is leaving for London shortly. Amy stays in
a Sydney boarding-house with a balcony contiguous to
the tramline, and as she sat on the verandah the other
afternoon a skipping masher came along, saw her, made
eyes, smiled, grinned, bowed, looked round, tripped and
fell flat on his back in the middle of the tramline with
a whooping motor behind him. That’s all.
At the international football match on the 2nd three or
four tennis devotees played stolidly in the Association
court throughout the match, never once pausing to watch
the engrossing contest 1 The young man tennis-player is
more often insipid than manly, and I read that “this curse
of universal tennis-playing will make the man of the next
generation long-armed and effeminate.” Well, the coming
girls won’t object to his being long-armed, anyway,
unless they become manly. Obvious, isn’t it 7
Last Saturday the first International football match—
England verms N.S.W. —was kicked off on Sydney Asso-
ciation Ground, and the visitors won by 18 points to 2.
The Britishers are fearfully sturdy, and made our men
look very weedy indeed, but (entre nous) the Englishmen
wore the very best style for increasing their width, viz ,
broad stripes running horizontally, whilst “ours” were
in dark claret guernseys—and claret is one of the colours
for making people look small and slim. The excitement
over the contest was at 100 degrees, and when Hale made
his game run, and secured the first “ touch down ” for the
Sunny South, I really felt inclined to wave my bonnet in
the air, and shout, “Hooray Hale 1” as the men did.
The uproar all through was tremendous—only amongst
the men, though. The women mostly were yawning and
eyeing one another sideways, figuring up the possible
total of each other’s milliner's bill. I descried several re-
spectable frocks. A dark-green plush with vest and skirt
embroidery of gold. Two young ladies from Randwiok in
puce cashmere and plush, hats marvellously matching, and
a crimson cashmere with plush revers and adornments—
smocked vest of white silk. A very modish dark-green
cloth pinked out round the draperies, and with a fashion-
ably smocked waistcoat. A deep electric blue with a wide
band of grey fur round the edge of the plain skirt, grey
hat and parasol. Several outre toilettes, of course, pre-
sented themselves. A Ruddigore dress with huge collar
and cuffs of white imitation fur of a combed-out sort and
looking like a birch-broom, was very loud. A young lady
in a cream silk skirt, red plush jacket, ancient-looking
black straw hat of periwinkle shape, and Brobdingnagian
bouquet of roses made quite a sensation, and a
purple skirt, brown fur “long-tailed” mantelette and
wide white straw hat “ ornate ” with ironed white muslin,
appeared to have come from the hem of civilisation.
There were a great many red dresses and hats, also—
giving the Stand a most Republican appearance.
I read that Wallach Bros., the Sydney furniture-kings,
have just completed their palatial warehouse in Wynyard
square. Fred, says that drapers and costumiers are
altogether distanced in the magnificent collection of art
stuffs, Lyons silks, velvety plushes, and sheeny figured
satins. There are here stacked up piles of costly arab-
esqued materials, shot with a dozen shades, shedding a
dozen lights ; quaint morescoed patterns that Goldsmith
would have yearned for in a new suit, with which to im-
press the tender heart of the lady he never married ; rich
plum and bloomy damson hues ; proud imperial purple,
and haughty ecclesiastical cardinal. From the latter, I
believe, His Eminence has draped the princely rooms of
his Manly palace at a price per yard that would make
any woman’s fingers itch. But all this fabric-wealth is
on the ground floor only. By a magnificently-fitted,
plush-cushioned lift, you are wafted as on a
magic mantle, to flat after flat, and the memory of your
visit is simply a phantasmal and bewildering recollection
of corridors of massive sideboards and gigantic buffets
all richly carven o’er with quaint and curious devices,
angels with oaken wings, and bunches of knot-grass with
corn-flowers interlaced. Then in another interminable
maze, bedsteads and bedroom furniture crowd close, sug-
gesting every country under Heaven, from Lapland to
America. Tasteful dressing-tables stand draped in blue
satin after the manner of merry France, and built afte r
the national mode are compound, convenient American
dressing-tables, which comprise a chest of drawers, a
washstand, and a mirrored table all in one. Scattered
about in great profusion are positively ravishingly
handsome ottomans—everything, in fact, that makes
a lonely spinster wish she was a wife—of a
wealthy man, my dear. Finally, there is the
library and office flat, but then there is no finality, and
any man. of princely tastes who thought of tak-
ing his wife to Wallach Bros’, unprepared to
spend more than three or four thou, would be a fool
for his pains, and had better keep away. There’s some-
thing awe-inspiring about the whole firm. B. J. Pink, of
Melbourne, is a partner, and they say he’s a millionaire,
and the local agent of the Rothschilds. I know it’s very
wrong, but I'm a woman, my dear, and we all worship
money and success. Mr. Aron, the resident partner,
triumphantly ascribes his success to his patriotism as an
Australian. So mote it be.
A queer thing happened last season at a mixed children’s
and adolescents’ fancy dress ball. A gentleman saw there
a pretty girl (whose portrait, in the identical costume she
wore, now adorns a leading Sydney studio) —was intro-
duced—considered her age in her long dress to be about
sweet 17—became hopelessly “ mashed,” and, having met
papa, some days after the festivity he ventured to call.
He was received by mama and papa, and after some time
had passed with no appearance of his Dulcibella he ven-
tured to ask for “Miss Ethel?” “Do you wish to see
her?” was the reply, and Miss Ethel was sent for and
came into the drawing-room—a slip of a girl, tall for her
age, of twelve, or thirteen! The hero of this anecdote
told me that the shock was something fearful.
In Sydney a well-known R.C. society girl has fallen in
love with her cousin who is a “heretic.” Consequently
the fair one has just written to Rome praying for leave to
marry her Protestant flame.
There is any amount of talk just now—l suppose owing
to the deplorable state of the marriage-market—over
what girls—“ genteel,” hard-up girls—can do to earn a
livelihood. One thing I do not see mentioned that any
girl can do. It is to cultivate flowers. A woman up
Parramatta way told me only recently that from violets
alone she averaged a yearly income of £5O 1 The screw
of the average “finishing” governess generally totals
about £4O !—Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.
[lnteresting items of fasnionable intelligence intended
for this column, will at all times be thankfully received
and acknowledged by Miss Sappho Smith, Bulletin Office.
Lady , who is to be seen at every toney
gathering-, assures us that she was a great sufferer
from nervous headache until she discovered that
by taking a tablespoonful of ‘ ‘ Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine ” immediately on returning home this
disagreeable companion left her.
Since Ist December last, 1303 cases of
typhoid have been reported in Melbourne, of
which 203 proved fatal.
The Evening Bell having suspended pub-
lication, Brett now has the Auckland (N.Z.
evening newspaper business entirely to himself.
Old gentleman (to convict); “ What is the
most objectionable feature you find in prison life,
my dear friend ? ” Convict: “Wisitors.” That is
so—“ Crime consists in being found out.”
One Kohlsdorg was dragged out of the
Yarra the other day. Tried to drown himself.
Had a watch and chain and £1 6s. on him at
the time. One hundred and six long beers (we
speak potentially) and three halfpence over!
Kohlsdorg ! Mad dorg !
Coroners’ juries in Melbourne are making
trouble about payment now. Nobody seems to
have thought that the corpse—the piece de resist-
ance of the affair—should be paid anything. This
will show you how the Law jumps on a man when
he happens to be dead for a while.
In France, during the snow, rabbits were
as warmly anathematised as any Australian could
desire. Not content with their usual burrow at-
tacks, they made snow runs through wheat-fields
and nibbled the young corn. Some of these gas-
tronomic tunnels were twenty yards long.
Judge Kerferd, in the Melbourne Criminal
Court; “ I have taken into consideration the re-
commendation to mercy, and I will always do so.”
His Honor then sentenced the prisoner to seven
years’ hard labour, with one whipping of 15
lashes. If that is Mr. Kerferd’,s mercy we would
like to know what his justice would be.' Sheol is
full of such mercy.
A very rare mineral, viz., tellurium, has
been discovered in a vein of bismuth ore at the
Jingera Mountains, in the Queanbeyan district.
Telluric bismuth has comparatively little value.
Had it been graphic tellurium it would have
meant the presence of about 25 per cent, of gold
and nearly half that percentage of silver. In bis-
muth, tellurium is frequently associated with sul-
phur and selenium.
A correspondent writes from Wilcannia ;
“The Chinese have a good hold here. We have
Chinese grocers, bakers, fruit-shops, and the usual
Chinese gardens—not forgetting a Joss-house. It
amuses me to see the bakers’ carts going their
rounds in the morning driven by Chows. There
is only one European baker here, and he does not
seem to have any special favour extended to him
by the white inhabitants. ”
.An American paper says ; “ Mr. George
Francis Train expresses the belief that the devil
is dead.” Does he now ? Mr. Train is a little bit
too yesterdayish in his surprises. The same idea
was published (in verse) in this paper four years
ago, and the Alta California did us the honour
of reprinting it as an original contribution to its
columns, carefully altering the names'of Sydney
localities to suit San Francisco. We find that we
are publishing The Bulletin for the benefit of
quite a number of periodicals in all parts of the
world which seem to subsist principally upon our
paragraphs. They are heartily welcome to them
when we have done with them.
Jane Crouch, who had one of her fingers
bitten off at Sydney last week, by a blackfellow
whom she was helping her husband to rob,
is experienced in police-courts. Exclusive of
acquittals, she has in all 73 convictions against
her. These date from 1873, since which she has
been seven years in gaol, and has served 400 days,
62 months and 18 weeks. She has been 33 times
convicted of drunkenness, 44 times of riotous be-
haviour, 14 times of having used indecent and
obscene language, nine times of vagrancy, once of
illegally pawning, four times of destroying
property, twice of stealing, three times of assault,
and once of indecency.
Every time the Caucasian tries a new
financial dodge ten to one he puts his foot in it,
and in the near future goes to gaol. Not long ago
a Wellington (N.Z.) shopkeeper, with a white
face, tried to bamboozle his creditors by a story
of a burglary and the loss of his cash-box contain-
ing his realised assets in gold to a large amount.
The creditors were sceptical, and the debtor is
now making bricks for her Gracious at Mount
Cook prison. Soon afterwards, notwithstanding
the disastrous result of this idea, an exactly
similar story was circulated by a yellow heathen
with a small shop and a large smile, situated in
the usual place. The creditors swallowed the
story in his case and gave him time.
There are a great number, of Chinese and
Japanese women at Port Darwin, and many
thereof are “no better than they ought to be. ”
Some' of these more than superpolitely polite
personages come to the Port from China and
“ Yapau ” under contract to the lessee of the
houses in which they live, and in Palmerston
alone, according to a Northern scribe, “ there are
at least five Japs, who play the rdle of Aspendius
the Campanian in Salambbo ”; there are also
some five and-twenty fair ladies of Japan in the
town. In the Cambridge Gulf exists a branch
establishment, and there are picquet posts of
Oriental wickedness all down the West Aus-
tralian coast to Freemantle. In Queensland a
little advance Japanese corps has begun work
at Thursday Island.


Business Announcements
Messrs. BEALE. & CO. beg to announce that
they are now in occupation of their new and exten
sive warehouses at the rear of their new buildings
at 482 and 484 George-street. ■ln anticipation of
large increase in the sale of the inimitable Haps
burg Pianos, they have just landed out of Peninsu
lar and Oriental steamers and other ships a really
magnificent choice of these celebrated instruments,
which, by sheer merit, have won their way ir
public favour beyond all competitors. Many
thousand Hapsburgs have been sold throughoul
Australia, and from all parts of the colonies have
been sent to us testimonials expressing perfeci
satisfaction.
The construction of the Hapsburg differs in-
herently from that of other pianos. The following
are some of the qualities which have together
placed it in pre-eminence :
Ist. The most easy and durable action yet in-
vented, viz., check-lever with front escapement.
The parts have been selected with extreme care,
the wood employed being pencil-cedar, an expen-
sive material, but one which will neither shrink,
cast, nor warp,
2nd. The wires are of very best steel, in the
bass covered with copper only. The vibrations
are reverberated by a sounding board specially
secured against changes of temperature, imparting
a clear, full, round, delicious singing tone in
marked contrast to the tin-kettly, metallic sounds
of inferior instruments.
3rd. All Hapsburgs are now double-oblique, the
strings being of greater length, thus giving fuller
volume than the old, straight-strung pianos.
4th. All Hapsburgs are trichord.
sth. All have seven octaves A to A.
6th. They have consolidated iron frames of great
strength. Theseframesare square reaching from the
bottom of the case to the extreme top of the wrest-
plank, securely bolted through the latter. Compound
studs sustain the whole with absolute rigidity.
That these precautions are necessary may be un-
derstood from the fact that the tension of the
wires equals a suspended weight of 13 tons. Thus
the rapid mutations of our climate are resisted
and tuning is only required at long intervals.
7th. The Pelts are clinched on the hammers, in-
stead of being fastened only by glue, as is the
case with nearly every piano excepting the Haps-
burg.
Bth. The Wrest-plank is covered with a Nickel
Plate as a special safeguard against change. A
split Wrest-plank is an unknown accident to a
Hapsburg.
9th. Obstacles are opposed to the inroads of
Cockroaches, Moths, Mice, &c. Wire-gauge
backs are provided.
10th. All interior blocks and bearings are
secured in their places by screws, which is a great
exception to the usual style of construction.
11th. The whole action is made adjustable and
interchangeable.
12th. The Outer Oases are of original and chaste
designs and of perfect finish. They are made of
well-seasoned, durable, and beautiful woods, and
can be had in Walnut, Rosewood, or Ebony, with
or without gold engraving.
A FEW SELECTED TESTIMONIALS.
CHARLES S. PACKER
a brilliant Pianist, and the greatest composer Australia
has known, the associate - of Mendelssohn, Thalberg,
Hummel and Weber ; the accompanist of the world’s
sweetest singers—Mario, Grisi, Lablache; the author of
the “ Crown of Thorns,” and many other noble composi-
tions, handed us the following
“Sydney, 7th March, 1883.
“I have tested the Hapsburg Pianos, imported by
Messrs. Beale and Company, in all the various grades, and
am extremely pleased with the sweetness, fulness, and
power of the instruments. The tone and finish are all
that could be desired. The proper balancing of bass with
treble is strictly adhered to. Generally I consider them
unsurpassed by any instrument hitherto introduced.
(Signed) CHARLES PACKER, Royal Academician.”
Madame CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN wrote :
“ Ayant sounds les PIANOS HAPSBURG, de Messieurs
Beale et Compagnie aux PLUS STRICTES EPREUVES,
je declare avoir etc aussi charmoe que surprise de la'
DOUCEUR EXQUISE DE LEUR TOUCHER, unie a une
ampleur et une SONORITE REMARQUABLBS. Je les
rccommande en toute sincsiritA ALICE CHARBONNET-
KELLERMAN, du Conservatoire de Paris, Sydney 20
Juin, 1883.”
CERTIFICATE.
“ I have subjected Messrs. Beale and Co.’s HAPSBURG
PIANOS to the severest tests, and am greatly surprised
and delighted at their MARVELLOUS SWEETNESS and
POWER. I cordially recommend them.—(Signed) ALICE
CHARBONNET-KELLERMAN, of the Conservatoire of
Paris. Sydney, June 20, 1883.”
Governor Sir W. 0. Robinson, of South Australia, the
composer of “ Unfurl the Flag” and other patriotic songs,
himself a thorough musician, examined and tested the
HAPSBURG PIANOS, and gave his unqualified recom-
mendation, which was duly reported in the Adelaide
papers at much greater length than can be here given.
Sir Arthur Palmer, Lieutenant-Governor of Queensland,
selected and purchased from us a Hapsburg Piano on
account of its special sweetness.
The BRISBANE COURIER.
“The Piano used for the accompaniments and the solos
was a brilliant-toned Hapsburg, of which both singers and
players speak very highly.”
TELEGRAPH.
“ The Piano used on the occasion was a Hapsburg of a
beautiful quality of tone and plenty of power.”
The AUSTRALIAN.
“The voices blended beautifully with the accompani-
ment, which was on one of the Hapsburg Grand instru-
ments. The tone of this instrument is exceedingly, pure
and powerful, and its qualities under the thrilling touch
of the conductor were displayed with consummate effect.”
SYDNEY EVENING NEWS.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are of excellent tone. 1
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REGISTER, Adelaide.
“ The Hapsburg Pianos are all of excellent workman-
ship. The manual throughout is remarkably sensitive to
the touch, and the volume is admirably balanced, and
entirely free from the wiry tone of inferior instruments.”
VALUABLE TESTIMONY.
“ Bishop’s-court, Adelaide, November 29, 1883.
“ Mrs. Kennion has much pleasure in saying that she
and those who have used the Hapsburg Piano at the
Court have been much pleased by the quality and sweet-
ness of the instrument.
“ Mrs. Kennion will have much pleasure in recommend-
ing the Hapsburg Pianos.”
HAYDN ORGANS.
Never require Tuning. Constructed of Solid Walnut.
Guaranted for Ten Years.
Over ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND of these Organs
have been sold. The best only is the cheapest. The
Haydn Organs are of beautiful design, simple construc-
tion, patent indiarubber bellows (which insects will not
touch), ivory keys, massive cases, exquisite tone.
HAYDN HARMONIUMS—Prices, from 12 guineas.
BEALE and COMPANY. Catalogues Free by Post.
482, 484, 486 Gkorcje-sirebt, Sydney.
NO MATTER WHERE YOU LIVE we will supply you
with Piano, Organ, or Harmonium upon RASY TIME
PAYMENTS.
Amusements
M
ERO ANTILB ROWING CLUB.
THIRTEENTH ANNUAL BALL.
TOWN HALL, WEDNESDAY, JULY 11.
Tickets obtainable from Members of the Com-
mittee ONLY.
Double, 30s. ; Gentlemen, 215.; Ladies, 12s. fid.
W. J. MERRIMAN, Hon. Tres.
W. A. BLACKSTONE, Hon. Sec.
Box 1023, G.P.O. 1
B
OTANY! .BOTANY!
BOTANY!
EVERY SUNDAY, AFTERNOON at 3.30.
Grand Sacred and .Classical Concert of
W VARTISTS.
—Artistically and Nuinqricalljy' the Strongest !
Under the Conductorship ofi Mr. Chas. Austin.
Grounds, Is. VChildren. Free.
FRANK SMITH
Director.
'yMOTORIAN ARTISTS’ SOCIETY.
Exhibition of PAINTINGS in the Grosvenor
Gallery, Public Library Buildings, Melbourne.
Entrance from Little Lonsdale-street, B.
Open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Admission, Is. Catalogues, Is.
TATTERSALL’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
Are open upon all the Principal Racing Events
throughout the Year. For full particulars see
* Town and Country Journal," also Brevities in
“ Evening News." Address, “ Tattersall’s," care
of George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney, Per
sons making applications for Tickets are requested
to register their letters to ensure safe delivery |
also enclose two addressed stamped envelopes, one
for reply and the other for result of drawing.
GOURVOISIER’S BRANDY.
This celebrated Cognac, as supplied to the late
Emperor Napoleon 111., is guaranteed to be of
the purest and finest quality.
T. CURRAN & CO.
W. JAMESOX A CO.’S
"MARROWBONE LANE" WHISKY,
Which possesses all the delicacy of bouquet, rich-
ness and purity, characterising a carefully-prepared
article that has been favourably known to the
world for the past 130 years. In bulk or case.
T. CURRAN & CO.
CHAMPAGNE.
“ Beriet Fils & Co.” Dry, elite and first quality.
Excels all other wines, and commands favour in all
the Courts of Europe.
Thos. Curran & Co.,
SOLE AGENTS,
Temple Court, King Street.
Amusements
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
COMPANY,
Managing Director—Mr. Alfred Wyburd.
THE FAVOURITE HOLIDAY RESORT.
Finest Collection of Fish and Seals in Australia.
Skating ! Skating ! Skating !
Entertainments every Afternoon.
Select Concerts by the best available Artistes
Every Sunday.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Admission, Is. :
Children Half-Price.
A. E. Stopeord, Sub Manager.
WANTED, MILLIONS ON MILLIONS
Second-hand Chaff, Corn, Flour, Potato,
Coke, Bark, and Copra Bags.—P. B. IVEY &
Co., 141 Sussex-street.
Government Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
The Chief Justice.
In the Matter of the Petition of
JOHANNE LOUISE WILHELMINE
REINHOLD, falsely called CARD-
WELL, of Brisbane, in the Colony of
Queensland, praying for a Decree of
Nullity of Marriage with THOMAS
ALFRED CARDWELL.
Victoria, by the Grace of God, of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen,
Defender of the Faith.
To THOMAS ALFRED CARDWELL,
otherwise THOMAS ANDREW CARDWELL,
formerly of Brisbane, in the Colony of Queens-
land :
We command you that within one month after
the service of this on you, inclusive of the day of
such service, you do cause an appearance to be en-
tered for you in our Supreme Court of Queensland,
at Brisbane, then and there to make answer to a
petition wherein JOHANNE LOUISE WIL
HELMINE REINHOLD, falsely called CARD-
WELL, claiming a decree of Nullity of the
Marriage solemnized between you and her is the
Petitioner and a copy of which petition sealed
with the seal of our said Court is herewith served
upon you. And take notice that in default of
your so doing the hearing of the charge thereof
proved in due course of law and the pronouncing
of sentence therein will be proceeded with your
absence notwithstanding.
Witness—The Honorable Sir Charles Lilley
Knight, the Chief Justice of Queensland, this
First day of May, in the fifty-first year of our
reign a.d. 1888.
(L.S.) ALFRED DOWN.
Deputy-Registrar.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
In the Matter of the Petition of JOHANNE
LOUISE WILHELMINE REIN-
HOLD (falsely called CARDWELL), of
Brisbane, in the Colony of Queensland,
praying for a Decree of Nullity of Mar-
riage with THOMAS ALFRED CARD-
WELL.
WEDNESDAY, the 9th DAY of MAY, 1888.
Upon motion to this Honorable Court by Mr.
LILLEY of Counsel for the above-named Peti-
tioner, and upon reading the case on motion and
the affidavit of THEODOR REINHOLD filed
herein this day. It is ordered that a copy of the
citation against the Respondent herein and a copy
of this order be advertised twice at an interval of
one week in each of the following newspapers,
namely, the “Telegraph” and “Queenslander,”
published at Brisbane ; the “ Bulletin,” published
at Sydney; and the “Leader,” published at Mel-
bourne. And that a copy of the petition and
citation herein and a copy of this order be sent by
post addressed to ALBERT CARDWELL, of
Paisley-street, Footscray, Melbourne, Victoria,
with a letter requesting him to forward same on
to the Respondent. And that compliance with
this order be deemed good and sufficient service of
the said petition, citation, and order upon the
Respondent.
Dated this 22nd day of May, 1888.
J. HARRISON BYRNE, Associate.
(1.5.) CHARLES LILLEY, C.J.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, sth June, 1888.
TENDERS FOR RABBIT-PROOF
FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
11 o’clock, on TUESDAY, the 17th day of
July, 1888, from persons willing to contract for
the erection of two gates ; 11 chains post and rail
fencing; 19 miles 70 chains fencing of posts and 3
wires; 7 miles 70 chains fencing of posts and 2
wires ; repairing, &c., 14 miles 10 chains of exist-
ing fences, and attaching wire netting to the
whole—say 41 miles 70 chains between the Murray
River and the 42nd-mile post on the South Aus-
tralian boundary.
Specifications and forms of Tender may be ob-
tained at the Inquiry Branch of this Department,
and upon application to the Crown Lands Agent,
Wentworth, and Messrs. George Ferguson and
Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street, Adelaide.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be ac-
cepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-proof
Fencing, Section 1. ”
THOS. GARRETT.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, sth J une, 1888.
TENDERS FOR R aBBIT-PROOF FENCING.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
11 o’clock on Tuesday, the 17th day of July,
1888, from persons willing to contract for the
erection of one gate, and about 24 miles of rabbit-
proof fencing, from a point about 10 chains south
of the 42nd-mile post on the South Australian
boundary to a point near the 66th-mile post on
the said boundary, joining Oakvale (S.A.) boun-
dary fence.
Specifications and forms of tender may be
obtained at the Inquiry Branch of this Depart-
ment, and on application to the Crown Lands
Agent, Wentworth, and Messrs. George Fergu-
son and Co., Unity Chambers, Currie-street,
Adelaide.
The lowest Tender will not necessarily be ac-
cepted.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Lands, and endorsed “ Tender for Rabbit-
proof Fencing, Section 2.”
THOS. GARRETT.
Business Announcemen t
JjJ- BWT ® If AND LAMS,
FURNITURE akd PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
in
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms akd Mivuricmt i
SPRING A O’CONNELL STRUTS
Full suites for dining-room.—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. Nxwton & Lamb.
(ELF- AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR,
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous position*
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Standi to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Drawing-room suites, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Immense
variety of des'gns ; also, elegantly finished
in Embroidery, Plush, &c. " Nkwton & Lamb.
13;
a
e
a
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
on* sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery Draw-
ees, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles tor
Stamps, and Ruler and Pee
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarg-
ing or diminish’ng the space when r equired. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced, admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
B
B
Drawing room cabi-
nets.
Kaklt Imum
Cbipfinbali Dksisdtc.
Kswtok fc Lamb.
Large stock of pianofortes by th«
Most Celebrated Makers.
ƒ
Austrian bent-
wood
FURNITURE.
A Yirt Complrt*
Assortmikt.
Many quite new designs.
Nbwtom & Lam*.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Liorary or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order ia
any material. Newton fc Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch, foe
Invalids and Medical Min.
ROCKING EAST CHAIRS, elegant and rest-
ful—a speciality. Newton & Lamb,
dfs
T> EDSTEADS, all rises.
Nickel-plated and Block
and Brass. Great variety.
Bedding.—All descriptions
at lowest rates.
N*wto» JC LAM*.
fds
SPRING MATTRESSES
(Woven Wire), best
make: algo, Spiral Spring.
Price, from 14s, each.
CHEAP FURNITURE. Pine Tables, from
13s. 6d. ; Dining Tables, from 205. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. fid.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
SOs. ; Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 10s. ; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. {
Writing Tables, with drawers, from 50s.
IWION AND LAMB.
FURNITURE akd PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Reesw awo MinvrAvsmr'i
vine a o’owionarx mmMmm
The Victorian Treasurer has every reason
to believe that he will have for the year a surplus
of £1,100,000 !
Mrs. Rappiport, of watch celebrity, has a
blind husband. But the Justice which tried Mrs.
Rappiport was not blind.
One Melbourne sharebroker is £14,000
short; three have absconded; and several others
have arranged with creditors. The total defici-
ency of defaulting brokers, so far, amounts to
£30,000.
We read that Hon. William North, eldest
son of Lord North, has opened a butcher’s shop in
Banbury, Eng., and is doing a very flourishing
trade. “ Only a pound of sausages this morning,
your nibs. ”
On Sunday evening last the members of
the Oentury Club celebrated the removal of their
head-quarters to Hunter-street. The proceedings
were mainly of a festive and hilarious character,
and after an hour’s business had been put through
the remainder of the night was devoted to the
chortling of clubbish joys. The finances are in a
healthy condition, and the hilarity has suffered
nothing from the recent frosts. On Saturday
evening next M. Lucien Henry will read a paper
on the “ Meaning and Scope of Art.”
At the Melbourne Princess’s Charles
Warner is playing out his season with a panorama
of star characters, climaxing in a double-bar-
relled benefit on Thursday and Friday next week.
After which the perennial Nellie Barren, together
with Fred. Leslie and a lightly-clad crowd, will
extravanganza regardless of expense. “ Hans the
Boatman” sees Mr. Charles Arnold through a
profitable five weeks at the Bijou, where “Jim
the Penman ” breaks out as a shocking ex-
ample of educational crime on Saturday.
The Alexandra has concluded a period of
tribulation by shutting up ? but the French
Comedy Company are still ministering to culchaw
in a foreign tongue, backed up by columns of
transcendent twaddle in the Aegus. The Cog-
hills have struck ten new songs at one fell swoop,
and the Victoria Hall is packed nearly as tight as
the Donaldson Bros., who now shove the whole of
their humanity into something no larger than a
sardine-tin, or thereabouts. Each brother is
packed separately, however. The Juvenile Exhi-
bition is in the thick of infant strife for three
guinea prizes, and finally Miss Von Finkelstein,
from London and the Holy Land, appeared
at the Athenaeum Hall last Monday night to a
packed house. Concerning Miss Von F., more
next week.
“Australia’s’’ Monster Consultations. The
Coronation Handicap, run at Canterbury Park,
June 28, 1888. 4000 Subscribers at 10s. each. First
Horse, £BOO ; Second, £250 ; Third, £150; Starters,
£250; Non-starters, £250 (divided amongst them),
and 100 Cash Awards at £3 each. For further
particulars write for one of our Yearly Cards,
which are well worth keeping for the information
they contain. Subscribers are requested to apply
early, so that the fortunate drawers of horses may
have time to hedge. Please register all letters to
ensure safe delivery of same, and enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes, for reply and result.
Address “Australia,’ care of Mr. Hugh Dal veen,
Victoria Cafe Hotel, near General Post Office,
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


y&n
Business AnmouneeMents.
NEWEST INVENTION— GRATEST NOVELTY.
THE
Patent Diagonal Seam Corset,
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split in the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
Y*N
The Queeyt s&ysi —** These Corsets are a, new dpnnrturp wl , . . , .
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diag-onahv^thp^p 18 cu l on the
strain. They are admirably modelled?exquisitely neJ y ’ the ? e f“ S h ® ve no
ship all that could be desired.” exquisitely neat and strong, and the workman-
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1888
Gold Medal, Highest Award
For Corsets, London International Exhi-
bition, 1884.
Latest Award !J ! Gold Medal Interna-
tional Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886,
OA CT 'lON.—Beware of worthless imita-
tions. Every genuine Y& N Corset is
stamped “Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL
SEAM CORSET No. 116,” in oval.
PALACE
INTERNATIONA
exhibition
Sold by all Drapers and Ladies’ Outfitters in the Uniteb Kingdom and Colonies.
Amusements.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee . Mr. L. FOLEY.
Sub-lessees and Under the Management of
Messrs. HUGHES and JINKINS.
CARRIAGES ORDERED AT 10.30.
EVERY EVENING
THE JUNGFRAU KAPELLE.
Swiss Band, Mountain Singers, and Tyrolese
J odelists.
■SWISS COSTUMES of the 17th CENTURY
CREATING QUITE A SENSATION.
THE JUNGFRAU KAPELLE.
A DISTINCTLY NOVEL ENTERTAINMENT,
which for
Variety, Originality, and Musical Excellence, has
never been Equalled in Australia.
Prices
Box Plan at Nichnlson’s
55., 35., and Is.
R
OYAL STANDARD THEATRE.
IQ* LAST OF FRANK SMITH’S 10th
WEEK. BURLESQUE COMPANY. WEEK.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
BLACK-EYED SUSAN,
Most efficient Company, powerful Chorus, mag-
nificent Scenery. Popular prices—3s., 2s, and Is.
€
RITERION THEATRE
' Sole Proprietor Mr. John Solomon
Under the management of
Mr. BROUGH and Mr. BOUCIGAULT.
SHAKESPEARE TRIUMPHANT.
'TWENTY FAREWELL PERFORMANCES
oof
W. J. HOLLOWA’Us- SHAKESPEARIAN COMPANY
■ and last appearance (prior to her departure foi
London) of Miss Essie Jenyns, whose return
1 is nightly .welcomed by a house crowded in everj
part.
SATURDAY, JUNE 9,
, : LNGOMAR, THE BARBARIAN.
:£/ oc *uced under the sole direction of W. j. holloway
Manager for w. j. holloway ... w. h. manning.
* ’General Business Manager—Mr. JOE DAVIS.
/A lhambra music hall
GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET
Proprietor and Manager ... Mr. Frank Smith.
Stage Manager Mr. H. Barrington,
VOX POPULI.
MINSTREL SHOWS
COME AND GO,
BUT WE GO ON FOR EYER.
4tb
The Musical Kings ...
The Musical Kings ...
The Innovator
The Innovator ...
COME
COME
YEAR
FIELDS and HANSON
FIELDS and HANSON
SYLVO
SYLVO.
EARLY
EARLY.
POPULAR PRICES,
Orchestra Chairs, 25., Stalls Is., Balcony, 6d.
SY D N E 1
ELITE SKATING RINK,
ELIZABETH and BEDFORD STREETS,
directly opposite Exhibition Building, Princ
Alfred Park. Every Afternoon and Evening.
K. A. SKINNER and Co., Proprietors.
The Largest Amusement Palace in the World
Brilliantly Illuminated by Incandescent Light
Skating capacity for 2000 Skaters. Seating 50CN
Spectators. A Perfect floor of Hardwood ha
been laid down at great expense by the Proprietors
Skates purchased from us will be admitted free
others will be charged the regular prices. Th«
Management reserve the right to refuse admissior
to any objectionable characters.
® r ’ ,L. G. AGINTON, the acknowledger
Champion Fancy and Artistic Roller Skater of the
World, who has just returned from a trip round
the world, has been engaged at an enormous ex-
ipense, and will give exhibitions of his wonderful
! skill on the rollers every evening for a few weeks
at 9 p.m. The Splendid BRASS BAND of the
Naval Artillery will render Choice Selections every
afternoon and evening. J
’Buses will leave Wynyward-square every ten
minutes for the Rink. J
Redfern trams stop at Bedford-street, Exhibi-
tion gates.
ADMISSION, la.
<£so Given Away
To Purchasers of the N.S.W.
CENTENNIAL ALMANAC,
which has been pronounced by the Press to be the Best
Almanac ever published in the colonies.
Each Almanac contains a Coupon entitling the holder
to participate in the Centennial Almanac Prize Distribu-
tion of £5O, which takes place on the 30th June.
Ist Prize, £2O; 2nd, £10; 3rd, £5; 4th, £3; sth, £2: and
Ten Prizes of £1 each. ’ ’
Send Six Penny Stamps to
BATSON & CO., 195 Clarence Street, Sydney,
for a copy, and thug stand a chance of their Gift of
£2O for Sixpence
Amusements.
Her MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Sole Lessees, Messrs. Rignold and Allison.
Doors open 7; Performance 7.45 : Carriages 10.45.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING AT A QUARTER TO 8,
the
TWO ORPHANS
TWO ORPHANS.
Prices, 55., 35., 25., Is.
Box Plan open Daily at Vestibule from 10 to 5.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrovo.
Lessee. Mr, S, Lazar; Treasurer, Mr. Goodman.
Open at 7.15. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
_ M°S. T CHARMING COMEDY OPERA,
DOROTHY DOROTHY DOROTkY.
Prices as usual. Tickets for all parts at Eastway’s!
"XT e t w OPERA HOUSE.
-A-' Lessee and Manager, E. E. Hiscocks
Acting Manager, Mr. R. B. Wiseman
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS.
The Theatre crammed, jammed, packed, to witness
the change of bill on Saturday by the
HARRY RICKARDS’
new comedy and speciality company.
On Saturday night a good programme was changed
for a better one—so says the Sunday Times
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s. ; Stalls, 25.; Pit, Is.
MONDAY NEXT, JUNE 11.
Under the Distinguished Patronage of His
Excellency the GOVERNOR, the
Right Hon. LORD CARRINGTON.
P.C., G.C.M.G., and of
THE LADY CARRINGTON
MONDAY, lltb, TUESDAY, 12th, and
WEDNESDAY, 13th JUNE
Mrs. GREENWOOD and her TALENTED
DAUGHTERS
have the honour to announce that they will give
three of their
GRAND CLASSICAL and EVER-POPULAR
ENTERTAINMENTS
in the Young Men’s Christian Association Rooms
on the above date. Musical, Dramatical, In
THE ONLY 13-YEAR OLD JULIET ON
RECORD, WILL APPEAR
for the first time in Australia, as
PIANISTE, VIOLINIST, VOCALIST, anc
ELOCUTIONIST.
Front Seats, ss. ; second seats and gallery,
35.; orchestra gallery, Is. ’
Box plan at Messrs. W. H. Paling and Oo.’i
1 lanoforte Warehouse, George-street, where seatf
may be reserved.
WIRTH’S GRAND CIRCUS
AND
NEW YORK EQUESCURRICULUM.
Location: ... HAYMARKET SQUARE.
Every Evening at 8.
Gigantic Success !
Houses Crowded to Overflowing \
Hundreds Turned Away !
BEST CIRCUS EVErTsEEN IN SYDNEY!
4 Beautiful
LADY EQUESTRIENNES I
Come and see the the Great Bounding Jockey
Contest between the Two Australian Natives,
GEORGE WIRTH and MONTGOMERY KING.
Prices —35., 2s. and Is.
Afternoon Performances WEDNESDAYS
and SATURDAYS at 3 o’clock. All Children
admitted for 6d. Entrance to Chairs and Stalls
in Hay-street, and to Pit in Pitt-street,
ALEXANDER, Business Manager.
4
A
SHFIELD RECREATION GROUNDS
AND
GARDEN PALACE.
Skating Every Afternoon and Evening.
The splendid Recreation Ground Band
will attend every
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings.
The Grounds and Skating Rink can be booked for
Private Skating Parties, Balls, Sports, Picnics, &c.
SKATING!
SPORTS 1
SKATING!
SPORTS!
SKATING!
SPORTS!
Catering on Reasonable Terms.
ALFRED WYBURD, Manager.
FOR SALE.—Two grand water frontages,
Parramatta and Lane Cove Rivers. Apply.
Bulletin Office
Hotels.
CLARENDON HOTEL, Manly.
TBCIt! BRIGHTON OH 1 jST.S.W..
\ T ol h 0 LAR ® ND P N HOTEL, Banquets, Suppers, Private Dinners, Evening Parties, etc are
rasfnE
by Mre - KIL ” N ™ “ ■»
Mrs. KILHINSTER,
Clarendon Hotel,
Opposite OCEAN BEACH. MANLY
THE SPEARING HOTELS,
Sorranto and Echuca,
"Victoria,.
The CONTINENTAL HOTEL, SORRENTO, Is
the most fashionable Spring, Autumn and Summer
resort In the Colonies.
The Hotel contains 65 Rooms, Large Dining
Hall, Ladles’ Drawing Room, Private Sitting
Rooms. Every convenience and attention. First-
class Hotel Service. Accommodation for 200
Guests. Gas, Electric Bells, Billiards, Balconies,
Baths. Beverages Iced.
Ik. B. Spearing S El
PROPRIETORS,
Late of
ROYAL HOTEL, DENILIQUIN, N.S.W.
Thk palace hotel, echuca, la the
leading Family and Commercial Hotel In tho
Riverina District. Mr. J. H. B. SPEAKING’S
Thirty Years’ experience as a Public Caterer Is
a guarantee of the comfort, convenience and con-
sideration all guests visiting him will undoubtedly
receive.
Private Apartments. Private and Public Batha,
Alcock s Billiard Table. Largest Balcony out of
Melbourne. Unsurpassed as a Winter Resort for
Invalids.
J. 1. I. Speariig,
PROPRIETOR.
Business Announcements.
NERVOUS DEBILI T
A FREE MEDICAL BOOK.
HERR RASMUSSEN, The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Specialist in Nervous Diseases
Will send (post free) to anyone a Free Medical Book on Self-Cure for Nervous Debility
Diseases. It gives special advice to all kind of sufferers. Addsess—
HERR RASMUSSEN, Danish Herbalists
157 LIVERPOOL STREET, HYDE PARK SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Y„
AND
”»; o'* " ' f
Wmm
~ * i" 4 I t
L^yijpg >'\
m
f'/:
m
I.|il>liliUl*ili<ilil
I' ‘VI
, i ■ I J fpll.. ;Q ■<!
I ■ * .^> : t W - ' r iiH.li
-•'» _»'.J '
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Trade Mark—“ The Greenwich Observatory, ”
Specially prepared from Ripe Fruit, and is the best of
all Fruit Salines.
BEALTH-GIVIHE, REFRESHING, iSTIGORAIM
A Preventive of Fever, Liver Complaints, Headache
Heartburn, Indigestion and Sea Sickness,
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
Get it only at Grocers; Chemists and Storekeepers.
Proprietor :
WM. PAKSOXS, A.P.S., Greenwich, England.
Agents;
W. H. FLETCHER & CO., 3 Queen’s Place, Sydney..
PARSONS’ GRAPE SALINE.
MaeoAAarOil
been known for nearly 100 years as the best and safest preserver, restorer and beautifler of
'iaffl® human hair; it is warranted free from any lead or mineral ingredients, of w hich most hair
fieetorer* are composed and which ruin the health (vide Medical papers), will keep fresh and
sweet in the hottest climates and has a delicate and fragrant bouquet of roses; it prevents hair
Sailing off or turning grey, strengthens weak hair, eradicates scurf or dandriff, and renders the
Mr s®ft, silky, curly and glossy; it also stimulates the growth ef whiskers and moustaches
at is especially recommended for children as forming the basis of a beautiful head of hair, and
Sftn also be had in a
GOLDEN COLOUR,
which, after great time and trouble, has been especially prepared for the as* of goMen-baired!
duldren and fair or grey-haired adult*. Sizes 3*. dd.; ?s.; family bottles, equal to tour small
10s. 6d.; and double that size, 21t.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a healing and refreshing preparation for
me race, hands and arms; it eradicates freckles, tan, sunburn, eczema, redness and roughness
oi the skin, pimples, cutaneous eruptions, etc,, and produces a beautiful and delicate
complexion.
ROWLANDS' DDONTO whitens the teeth, prevents and arrests decay,
SJvSfvivL) 16 an( i irises a delightful fragrance to the breath. Ask anywhere for
Jivuw-LANDS articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid spurious imitations unde"
Similar names.
Wholesale and Retail Agents— Elliott Bros., and E. Pkossee & Co., Sydney.
LEA & PERRI NS'SAUCE
f
In consequence of Imitations of THE WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE which art calculated to deceive the Public , Lea and Perrins
fiave la request that Purchasers see that the Label On every belt fa
hears thetf Signature thus-*
fvfthout which fio bottle of the original WORSES TEfiSfflJW
SAUCE is genuine.
Ask for LEA and PERR INS’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle snS
Stopper . Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse and
HUukwell, London . fry.. <stv. ; and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agpnt»l MOKTsanOEK. Jqsipb & (>! Cosoi jc C4C.
©¥©
NEW BILLIARD TABLE SHOW ROOMS & FACTORS
Bit) LI ARE CUSHIONS, Ac., MADE ON THE PREMISES
Old Tables re-fitted by our own men.
CLOTHS, CUES,BALLS in stock,also CHICKET, LAWN TENNIS & BOWLS
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
?, Little George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W., and Soho Square, LONDOE


FBA AND EASTERN MERCHANTS,
NO. 79 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR ALL
EASTERN PRODUCE,
AND PAY
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE BUYING OF TEAS.
INDENTS ARK EXECUTED ON THE MOST FAVOURABLE TERMS.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
The Best Machines in Existence.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM and Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Bole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
Alan importers of Requisites for the Boot Manufacturing Trade in ail details, including Machinery, Imported
Leathers. &o.; and of the following Special Lines PEERLESS <JLOS9, SATIN POLISH. WITOfAJS BLACK*
IYC • Tanners’ Tools and Materials. Indents executed on Favourable Terms.
Business Announcements.
novrs
Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken two
or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an adult,
smaller quantity for children.
For general Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of Dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin Diseases will flrd
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
THEY PURIFY THE BLOOD AND LIVER.
SEE WHAT A MEDICAL GENTLEMAN SAYS
ABOUT THEM.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried.
Yours faithfully,
HENRY CHARLES CURTIS,
M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October, 30, 1886.
Gentlemen,— I have great pleasure In recom-
mending Row’s Dandelion Bitters. I have been
suffering for several years with liver complaint,
and been under several doctors for it without any
curative result. I have only taken two bottles of
your Dandelion Bitters, and feel quite a different
man. I can, therefore, with truthfulness, advise
all who suffer from liver complaint to try them.—
Yours,
O. R. UPJOHN, J.P.
Tamworth, August 21, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received b
the undersigned:—
“ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, Indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feelings of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced an
unexpected and wonderful effect and change in
my system, and has removed from my mind the
horribly depressed feeling and former condition of
bodily ailment I have so unhappily experienced
for so many years.
“lam glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are afflicted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“ Respectfully yours,
“MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt
“ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
DOWS
EMBROCATION
\!y> -<SS,//i'S
'f%ow I
3/6
JOSEPHSOFS_ OINTMENT.
By Royal Letters Patent.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT IN THE
WORLD. BAR NONE.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals have
lately made New South Wales their home, it may
he as well to let them know that there is such an
article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely the
production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now so
famed throughout the world.
Josephsori’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from all Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO WOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this Letter and Try for Yourselves.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEAL T H BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen: —
Statutory Declarations.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so-called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, 12th August, 1881, before
me.
“ ) Signed) Wm. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them, and ask for ROW’S STEANE
BITTERS, prepared solely by
KDW ROYU and COMPANY.
Public Notice,
THE BULLETIN (Published at Sydney, N.S.W)
The Unique Weekly, Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
Thk Bulletin, the Premier Australian Literary
Journal, Is the only paper which has a con-
sistent and distinctive Australian National
Policy.
Th* Bulletin favours —
A Republican Form of Governments
Payment of Members.
One Man, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education,
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference In Polities,
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting mere
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the other half that is found
In The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started seven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sessed a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
Influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
Irst issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The bulletin proprietary have, during the
last year, spent some thousands of pounds in
fitting their buildings with the latest appliances
for high-class printing and the production of illus-
trations, and they have now issued The Bulletin
in an entirely new form—printed with new type
of improved legibility on the finest paper, and
adorned with sketches from the hands of the
ablest and best-paid newspaper artists Australia
has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The voice of The Bulletin is the beacon-fire
Of national progress : it is the forceful summons to
the crusade against the monopolies in land,
wealth, power, and privilege—the dire it cause of
half the misery which now afflicts British
humanity. Against the claims of avaricious
clergy who claim to monopolise salvation, against
the dark despotism of grasping plutocrats, and
against the exercise of any human authority
which has not been granted by the people over
whom it is exercised, The Bulletin will fearlessly
and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
Issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the
most popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
The circulation of The Bulletin in Sydney is
unrivalled by that of any other weekly journal,
and more than a hundred copies of it are sold in
Melbourne to one of any other paper printed out-
side that city. Perhaps the strongest proof of The
Bulletin’s popularity is found in the unchallenge-
able fact —easily ascertainable from any postal
official—that, of all journals issued in Australasia,
The Bulletin is the one most frequently re-
mailed from one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
Other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
Straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance) Sir
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One
Pound per annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maclkod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial com muni
satins* to ha %ddr««*ad to J V. Abubibaus
A man writes in Melbourne Herald tha’
the buuyip is a bird. This is absurd. It has
been known to Baron Yon Mueller and other
naturalists for years past that the original bunyi{
was (and is) a book-canvasser.
“Now, don’t move your head after I have
placed the knot under your ear,” is the advice
given to the general public by the English execu
tioner ; “if you do, your neck will not be broken
by the fall.” What a humourist 1
Cuest (in reading room of hotel, to
stranger) : “ Excuse me, sir; but will you kindly
tell me how to spell embarrassment ” Stranger
(a part-book canvasser): “ H-m —embarrassment
I don’t know the word, sir. French, isn’t it ? ”
Watch dials are now made by photography
at a mere fraction of their former cost. The
Waltham Watch Company, which only paid £4OO
for the process, can turn out for 10 cents each
dials that in the old way of making would have
cost a dollar apiece.
When the Melbourne Exhibition Commis-
sion advertised for six clerks, at 50s. per week,
over 700 applications were sent in. Had it been
in Sydney there Would have been several hundred
less as the 7000 unemployed of N.S.W. are far
too poor to waste postage-stamps on a problem-
atical billet.
The professorial board of Sydney Univer-
sity cannot recommend the abolition of the matri-
culation examination as suggested by Professor
Liversidge. Of course not 1 The Professor’s
suggestion was in the direction of progress, and
the University authorities always keep their backs
to the rising sun.
A modern Lord Chesterfield was lately
giving his son some advice about getting on in
society. In answer to the question ; “ What is
the best subject to talk to a lady about at a ball ?”
he replied: “Talk to her about her beauty.’
“But,” said he, “suppose she had no beauty ?”
“Ah, then,”replied the experienced paterfamilias,
“talk to her about the ugliness of the other women
present if you want to get on. ”
The Enterprise, the little vessel in which
Johu Pascoe Fawkner sailed across Bass’ Straits
in his historical voyage to Victoria, is embedded
in the sands of Warrnambool beach. The hull is
intact, and the vessel in a good state of preserva-
tion, although the deck has long been washed
away. It has been proposed to exhibit it at Mel-
bourne Centennial Exhibition, and J. J. Shilling-
law has taken the matter in hand.
As an amusing instance of how appropriate
lines can be found with a little care, the mottoes
adopted at a recent Welsh Press banquet can be
cited. For proprietors the motto was, “Keep o’
the windy side of the law” (“Twelfth Night”);
for editors, “Take away the sword—stabs can be
saved without it ; bring the pen ” (“ Lytton’s
Richelieu ”); for sub-editors, “ Like the best
woman—least talked about” (“ Schiller ”); for
compositors, “ Set thy words in order ” (“Job”);
for reporters, “Set it down in a note-book”
(“Julius Csesar *’); for the stereotypers, “Throw
up the steaming column” (“Cowper”), and for
the machine-men, “Produces that which makes
millions think” (Byron’s “Don Juan.”)
Oh, My Back!
That lame back is caused by kidney disease.
Stop it at once by de. bell’s (Kidney and Liver)
BITTEES.
Diarrhoea,' Dysentery and Colic.— lt ought to be more
generally known throughout New South Wales that Free-
man’s Original and Genuine Ohlorodyne is a specific for
these prevalent Colonial Maladies. In Melbourne, years
ago, Freeman’s Chlorodyne acquired a very high reputa-
tion for arresting' and curing these diseases. It is easy to
understand, therefore, that Freeman’s Chlorodyne is now
regarded by the Colonists as a household remedy. The
directions on each bottle are so clear that the most inex-
perienced can administer it with perfect confidence. Free-
man’s Chlorodyne, if given when the earliest symptoms of
these maladies manifest themselves, at once arrests their
farther progress. In Colic, Inflammation of the Bowels,
and Pain of all kinds, Freeman’s Chlorodyne acts like a
charm.—Sold everywhere throughout the Colonies. Insist
upon having “ Freeman’s ” only. Reject substitutes as
they are worthless. Trade mark, an Elephant.*
Luxuriant Glossy Hair.-— To obtain this, avoid
poisonous hair restorers and dyes, and use Rowlands’
Maccassar Oil, known for nearly 100 years as the best
preserver, strengthener, and beautifler of the hair. Sold
also in a golden colour for fair-haired ladies and children.
Rowlands’ Kalydor removes freckles, tan, cutaneous erup-
tions, and produces a beautiful complexion. Ask dealers
in perfumery for Rowland’s articles, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.*
MRS. PARTINGTON SAYS
Don’t take any of the quack rostrums, as they are regi-
mental to the human cistern ; but put your trust in Dr.
Soule’s American Hop Bitters, which will cure general
dilapidation, costive habits, and all comic diseases. They
saved Isaac from a severe extract of tripod fever. They
are the ne plus unum of medicines.—“ Boston Globe.”
In October last there were in K.S.W, only
5042 aborigines and 7902 half-castes.
Cable informed us a fortnightago that Henry
Benson, most accomplished of modern swindlers,
has suicided in New York. Newspaper para-
graphists, frequently mentioning this remarkable
Jew in connection With the frauds on Madume de
Goncourt and others, have mostly forgotten, if
they ever understood, the elaborate ingenuity of
those frauds. Benson and his chief accomplice,
William Kerr, produced a bogus number of the
London Sportsman, containing an article which
told how certain phenomenally-successful backers
of horses had been boycotted by the bookmakers.
In another column these injured backers invited
the public to_ act as their agents for ‘ ‘ getting on ”
money with imaginary bookmakers, whose names
and addresses were supplied. The victims of the
biycott proposed sending their money to
ladies and gentlemen who would invest it with
the parties mentioned, not forgetting to forward
their own little bit, that they too might share in
the “certainty.” These bogus copies of the
Sportsman were posted to hundreds of carefully-
selected addresses on the continent. A fair per-
centage of “ mugs ” applied for commissions, and
to them Benson and Kerr sent genuine bank-notes
which came back, with plenty of the “mugs’”
own “stuff ” to the bookmakers—Kerr and Ben-
son over again. Madame de Goncourt, the fine
showy widow of an insignificant little man, was
lured on with promises of a grand coup until she
had parted with £lO,OOO. While this game was
going on the firm distributed heavy bribes among
detectives Druscovitch, Meiklejohn, Palmer, and
others, but these worthies were ultimately com-
pelled to arrest their patrons. Sentenced to long
terms of imprisonment Kerr and Benson turned
Queen’s evidence against the detectives, and
brought some of them to jail. In the witness-
box Benson impressed everybody by his refinement
of manner and cleverness under cross-examinaf ion.
He was even then lame, as the result of a deter-
mined attempt to burn himself to death during a
former term of imprisonment for * ‘ doing ” a
Mansion House Fund for the relief of the French
peasantry. When this Fund was started, after
the Franco-German war, Benson presented him-
self at the Mansion House as Mayor of a distressed
piovince. His story, told in choice French, was
so pathetic that he obtained £lOOO to satisfy the
urgent necessities of his “suffering fellow-country-
men.” For misdirected genius that bold swindle
fairly takes the cake. Benson had a fine taste for
fine company, and while he was luxuriating on
the de Goncourt capital entertained the Empress
of Austria at his villa in the Isle of Wight. He
was an accomplished musician and linguist End
the possessor of a conscience which tormented him
in the hour of adversity. Twice did he set fire to
his prison mattrass, and deliberately lie down in
the flames. But for the tell tale smoke attracting
his warder’s attention, Benson would have died
before the Turf Fraud era, and the English detec-
tive system would have escaped a wholesale expose.
Of the men who took his bribes Druscovitch is
dead ; Palmer keeps (or did keep) a tobacconist’s ;
and Meiklejohn picks up a precarious living as
private inquirer and small bookmaker. The
writer has often backed a horse with “Meik”
since he (Meik—not the writer) served his two
years :and a shallower specimen of police cunning
never put an open palm behind his back.
TWO ORGANS.
Regulate first the stomach, second the liver ; especially
the first, so as to perform their functions perfectly, and
you will remove at least nineteen-twentieths of all the
ills that mankind is heir to, in this or any other climate.
Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters is the only thing that
will give perfectly healthy natural action to these two
organs.—“ Maine Farmer.”
How to Gain Flesh and Strength.— Take after each
meal about a tablespoonful of Scott’s Emulsion of Pure
Cod Liver Oil with Hypophosphitbs. It is almost as
palatable as milk, and easily digested. The rapidity with
which delicate children and sickly people suffering from
weakness and wasting disease improve and thrive upon
this diet, is truly marvellous. As a remedy for Con-
sumption and Throat Affections and Bronchitis, is un-
equalled by any other preparation in the world. Any
Chemist can supply it at 4s. 6d.*
Old Port, Claret, Hock, Sherry, Rousillon, Madeira,
Muscat, Tokay, &o. Unequalled High-class Wines are
only to be had from Hookings of 410 George-street, under
Marshall, chemist, near King.street.*
William’s Australian Insecticide is death to all insects.
Simple in application—sure in effect. This is the only
genuine Insect Destroying Powder, being certain death to
all kinds of insects, while it is perfectly harmless to animal
life, and therefore may be used without the slightest
apprehension. For the extermination of Mosquitos
especially, the Insecticide has no equal—as the fumes of
the burnt powder, while throwing off a pleasant odour,
are at the same time most destructive to them. Sold in
Is. boxes by all chemists and storekeepers. Manufactured
only by W. Williams, Pharmaceutical Chemist, 257 King-
street, Newtown. Wholesale from Messrs Elliott Bros.,
and E. Prosser & Co.*
Good News
Ought to be told, and it is good news that dr.
bell’s bitters has cured the worst of kidney-
diseases, and can do it again.


Business Announcements.
THE AUSTRALASIAN TRUST MANAGE-
MENT ASSURANCE and INVESTMENT
COMPANY, Limited.
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament, 37 Vie.,
No. 19.)
Registered Capital £1,000,000
Paid-up and Guarantee Reserves ... £32,000
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B, Chairman.
ARTHUR BRACKET, Esq., F.1.A., Deputy-
Chairman.
THE BANKING DEPARTMENT.
HIGH RATES OF INTEREST for long term
deposits.
BANK DEPOSIT RECEIPTS for Deposits
under three years.
DEBENTURE BONDS, under the corporate seal
of the Company, payable to bearer or registered
holder, with transferable Coupons for INTEREST
payable HALF-YEARLY attached, and giving a
FIRST charge on its entire real and personal
property, including its uncalled capital, are
granted for Deposits of three years and upwards.
NOTWITHSTANDING fall in Bank Kates, this
Company will receive deposits during CURRENT
month, allowing
£7 per cent, for 3 years 'l
£0 „ „ 12 months |
£5 ,, „ 6 months f
£i „ ,, if months J
Renewable or withdraw-
able on notice in
terms of Prospectus.
Send for Pamphlet, “ TEN MINUTES’ ADVICE
TO INVESTORS.” Post Free.
The Company solicits applications for Loans,
repayable by instalments over terms of years.
Chief Offices: Australasian Chambers, 8, 10 and
12 Hunter-street, George-street, Sydney.
BRUITO N’S
ROYAL PATENT STEEL ROLLER
FL( iUR
Can be obtained throughout New South Waler,
Queensland, and Victoria.
SYDNEY 34 Pitt Street,
BRISBANE Edward Street.
MELBOURNE Spencer Street.
Hotels.
PALACE FAMILY HOTEL,
Corner of
Stanley and Melbourne Streets,
SOUTH BRISBANE,
8 Irst-class Accommodation. Suites of Apartments.
Admitted the Coolest and Best Ventilated
House in the City.
DAVID LYONS ... ... Proprietor,
CRITERION HOTEL, NARRANDERA,
N.S.W. First-class Family and Commercial
Hotel. Plunge and shower bath. 'Bus meets
livery train. J. B. PATTERSON, Proprietor,
Good Sample Rooms
PALACE HOtYIT
TOWNSVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
I, CRAMP, Proprietor (late of Rockhampton)
CONDUCTED on the same principle as the
great Melbourne Coffee Palace. A very
large Billiard Room.
Prices as follows i—6s. per diem. All meals Is. 6d.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
FIRST-CLASS TABLE,
Terms Moderate.
MUSSRAVE HOUSE,
Corner of
CHARLOTTE and GEORGE STREETS,
BRISBANE.
JOB. BARRINGTON, Proprietor.
jgIXCELSIOR HOTEL, CHARTERS TOWERS,
Second Brick Hotel Building erected in above
town, situated corner of Gill and Church Streets,
W. M. GOUGH, Proprietor.
MOUNT MORGAN.
Queensland National Hotel,
20 BEDROOMS.
THIS Hotel has been beautifully done up, and
is now ready for the reception of visitors.
Every comfort. Cellar stocked with best brands
tnly. Terms moderate. Mrs. Heiskr, Proprietress.
LISTER’S HOTEL, BALLARAT.
Alfred Lister, Proprietor.
This Is one of the Largest Hotels in the colonies,
Replete with every comfort and convenience
modern times for the travelling public.
YORK HOTEL,
BROKEN HILL.
A. OLIVER ... Proprietress.
The York Hotel affords all the comfort of a
Home; civility and cleanliness, combined with
Moderate Charges, being a speciality.
The Hotel is centrally situated for Visitors to
the Mines or Township. All the rooms are lofty
and well ventilated, and luxuriantly furnished.
Large BILLIARD ROOMS, in which are Two
Splendid Tables.
KS* All Telegrams or Letters forwarded will
receive Mrs. Oliver’s immediate persona] attention,
'Firsit-claan Bath and Samnln Rruama
WOODS’ HOTEL,
MELBOURNE. /
Opposit* Railway Tbbminus, Bpbkohb-st^j ITi
YISITORS patronising the which
has lately had an jqq’ rooms
will find all modern such as light,
lofty, and well- vent V?ated bedrooms, large public-
room, an( j co ld baths, shower
and needJrj passenger elevator, electric
bells, tele. lllone> and a n o tber hotel requisites, not
to be surp (agge(l in Australia. Visitors can rely
u P° n ° em t- called for early morning trains. Letters
and telegn ma p rom pt,iy attended to. Prices very
moderate,
PKTKR WOODS,
; Owner and Proprietor
THE KIDNEYS
SYMPTOMS.
Pain In Loins
High Colored or
Colorless Urine
Incontinence
Fever in the Parts.
Thousands of
people have taken
bottle after bottle of
medicine, under the
impression that they
were suffering from
Bright’s Disease, or
some other Kidney
malady. A correct
diagnosis or examina-
tion, in nine cases out
of ten, would demon-
-1 _ 1 * i i -r • . -i
strate the fact that the trouble lay in the Liver, the
Stomach or the Blood. This delusion is conse-
quent upon the varied, startling, or alarming ad-
vertisements bearing upon Kidney Disease, which,
in embracing the symptoms of Dyspepsia and
Liver and Blood complaints proper, are regarded
by thousands as proof positive that they, too,
have fallen victims to Bright’s Disease, or some
other forms of Kidney affections. In ninety-nine
cases out of every hundred, when you experience
the symptoms found at the head of this article,
you will find that Impure Blood, Dyspepsia, and
Biliousness are the fathers of the symptoms ; and
any remedy that will gite tone and healthful
action to those organs will remove the last vestige
of Kidney Disease. In a large majority of cases
the Kidneys suffer purely from sympathy, as do
other organs. Purify the Blood, rouse the torpid
Liver to action, strengthen the Stomach, and
it will invariably disperse all traces of Kidney
Disease. It is a proven and substantial fact that,
with a healthy Stomach and Liver, no such thing
as Kidney Complaint was ever known, bell’s
bitters will relieve and cure you.
Irani run & go.,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES
AND QUEENSLAND.
UCHTNER & CO..
32 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
AND
9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
IMPORTERS OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS OF
Fla.otog'rapli.ic I3eq.VLislte3.
■ i ■ ii. n
Instructions in Photography
FREE OF CHARGE
—— To all Purchasers of a PhotographiO-OutSt I
AT EITHER
38 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
OR,
9 HAYES' BUILDINGS, ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE.
CATALOGUES ahd PRICE LISTS FREE.
UCHTNER & CO.
DR.
SPEER’S
dsf
AMERICAN DISPENSARY 42 MARGARET STREET
(Between George and York Streets.) P.O. Box 920. Dr.
Speer -is a regular Graduated Physician, educated at
Harvard College, U.S. (for confirmation see New Zealand
Gazette, January 21st, 1886; also New South Wales
Gazette, April 17th, 1888). The doctor has devoted 14
years to the study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, AND
SPECIAL DISEASES. Four of these were in the leading
hospitals of the United States, which enables nim to treat
all complaints with excellent results. All applying to
him will receive his honest opinion of the ir complaints.
No experimenting ;no Mercury used. He ill guarantee
a positive cure in every case he undei t kes, or forfeit
£2OO. His reason for doing so is this—whe < t there is no
organic disease, and nothing but an inorgaiio trouble, or,
in other words, a conglomeration of symptoms producing
a certain result, there is no reason why it cannot be re
moved with the proper remedies, therefore he guarantees
He wishes it distinctly understood that he does not claim
to perform impossibilities, or to have miraculous power
he claims only to be a skilled and successful physician
thoroughly infDrmed in his speciality—CHßONlC and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. People
residing at a distance can, by explaining their troubles in
detail be treated at home. The course of treatment will
not in any way interfere with their business. Examina-
tion and advice free to all. Charges moderate. H. J
Spbbr, M.D., 42 Margaret Street, between George and York
Streets, Sydney. Post Office Box, No. 920. Office hours
10 a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and 7to 8 p.m. Sundays, from
10 to 11 a.m. only.
White as the Driven Snow
IS LINEN
WASHED WITH
The Sensation Magic Cleanser
GOLD-WATER SOAP,
Trade Mark—“ IMPERIAL."
All Grocers, City and Suburbs, Storekeepers.
The SYDNEY SOAP and CANDLE Co., Ltd.,
SO OLABENCIB-BTBBBT,
CIGARS & CIGARETTES.
WE beg to notify the Public that we have
been appointed SOLE AGENTS for the
following leading Manufacturers of
EGYPTIAN CIGARETTES I
M. MELACHRINO & CO., CAIRO.
M. CADEMENO, CAIRO.
We are now offering these exceptionally Choice
Brands of
CIGAKETTSS, aha FINEST EEANDS of CIOA&S,
TO
Consumers Direct at Wholesale Prices /
KF Note this Pkiob !
We sell a very good Egyptian Cigarette— the
“ SESOSTRIS ” Brand—in Tin Boxes of 100, at
SIX SHILLINGS EACH!
tr By buying from us you will save at least
25 per cent.
WARREN & ROWN,
MERCHANTS,
u barrack street, mm
(opposite Savings Bank).
GBP. GBD. GBD.
THIS FAMOUS AND FAVOURITE BRAND
Of
BRIAR PIPES.
.. maintain* it* Prestige and ctand* pre-eminent amom
the boat* of other brand* as
THE BEST QUALITY BRIAR PIPE OFFERED TO
SMOKERS,
Beware of Spurious Imitations.
The undersigned are preoared to enforce the Law azainei
all penon* imitating the brand.
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 CLARE NCE-STREET..
gbd. am
pWehare Large Shipment* of this BRAND OF BRIAR
I WHOLB t SALE ( ONM Reg,llalr Shipmeiit * Comi “8 toward
rjIHOMAS BUOKLAND.
MINING, MACHINERY, AND GENERAL AGENT
Charters Towers.
Agent for Robey and Co., Engineers, Lincoln.
■■ H Langland’s Foundry Co., Melbourne, Vic.
Hotels.
GLOBE HOTEL, Albury.
THE Undersigned, having become Lessee of
the above well-known Hotel, begs to inti-
mate to the Travelling Public that every atten-
tion will be given to the management to ensure
comfort and the very Best Accommodation pro-
curable in the colonies.
Private Suites of Rooms for Families.
The Cuisine Department will be under the
superintendence of Mrs. Solomons.
Sample Rooms, Billiards, Hot and Cold Baths,
Reading and Smoking Rooms, Magnificent bal-
cony and every convenience.
All Liquors best brands. N.S.W. and Vic-
torian papers. Letters and telegrams promptly
attended to. Night porter.
L. SOLOMONS, Proprietor,
A remarkable discovery is just announced
from Paris. A well-known firm of photographers
succeeded, while taking a photograph of the
i ieiades, and by exposing a sensitive plate for
four hours, in discovering the existence of a large
mass of cosmic matter, which covers a great part
ot this constellation, and which the most powerful
instruments have hitherto failed to discover. But
the most curious fact which they have discovered
is the existence of a rectangular filament of
nebulous matter jutting out from the central mass
in an easterly and westerly direction, with a length
of from thirty-five to forty minutes of arc, and a
thickness of some three or four seconds only. This
filament encounters in its course three or four
stars, which it seems to unite like the beads of a
chaplet; its direction changing slightly when it
encounters the largest of those stars.
It doesn’t seem to be worth anyone’s
while to be a magistrate at Boat Harbour, N.S.W.
There is no dignity in the billet, and the beak is
sassed as if he were only a common mortal. Not
long since the local paper related that its reporter
had risen in court and informed the Bench that it
hadn’t any sense and couldn’t spell a word of four
letters, and that it didn’t even know how to take
depositions, which, however, didn't matter, as
neither the Bench nor anyone else could read
them when they were taken. Furthermore, he
was of opinion that the public didn’t lose anything
by not being able to read the official records, as
there was no brains in them, and they were so
hashed up that it was impossible to tell at times
whether they referred to a man or a dog. He
also pointed out that the Court didn t know what
year it was, and kept on dating its documents
1889 ; and he explained that the authorities about
there couldn’t be trusted with as there
was every chance that they would break their
necks over them. When he had conc.uded these
observations he got down and nobody slew him,
which makes us feel more than ever convinced
that it isn’t worth anybody’s while to represent a
great and enlightened Government at Boat
Harbour.
Never laugh when you see a woman trying
to drive a horse. It may be funny to you, but see
how the poor horse must suffer !
There has just arrived in England an
eminent Chinese scholar who is a direct des-
cendant of Confucius, in the seventy-second
generation.
During the sinking of large pits and wells
in Nevada strata of rock-salt were cut through, in
which were found imbedded perfectly-preserved
fish, which are doubtless thousands of years old,
as the salt-field occupies what was once the bottom
of a large lake, and no such fish are to be
found in any of the modern Nevada lakes. The
specimens are not petrified, but flesh and all are
preserved in perfect form, and after being soaked
in water for two or three days can be cooked
and eaten, but the fish are not very palatable.
After being exposed to the air and sun for a day
or two they become as hard as wood. We strongly
suspect that most of the fish hawked round in
Sydney comes from Nevada salt-beds.
An interesting story is told by Colonel
Grandin of the_ Empress [Victoria, of Germany.
The Colonel, as it happened, was the first French
officer sent to Germany after the war of 1870, and
it may easily be imagined that it was with very
mixed feelings of emotion that he found himself
surrounded by Germans, all of whom he regarded
as his deadly enemies. Suddenly, however, the
Crown Princess, who was riding at the head of
her regiment dressed in a semi-military costume,
galloped up to him, and, accosting him very
graciously, told him that it gave her especial
pleasure to make his acquaintance on that particu-
lar day. The Colonel bowed, without attaching
any precise meaning to the compliment or the day.
“ Yes,” continued the Princess, “ because on this
day, if you remember, the 9th of September, the
English and French, fighting side by side together,
won the great victory of Sebastopol.” These
simple words, and the kindly manner in which
they were uttered, completely won the Colonel’s
heart.
Home Items and Topics.
—“ All your own fault.
If you remain sick when you can get Dr.
Soule’s American hop bitters that never—Fail.
—The weakest woman, smallest child, and
sickest invalid can use Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters with safety and great good.
—Old men tottering around from Rheumatism,
kidney trouble, or any weakness will be made
almost new by using Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
£3” My wife and daughter were made healthy
by the use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
and I recommend them to my people.—Methodist
Clergyman,
Ask any good doctor if Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are not the best family medicine on earth 1
Malarial fever, Ague and Biliousnejs, will leave
every neighborhood as soon as Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters arrive.
“ My mother drove the paralysis and neuralgia
all out of her system with Dr, Soule’s Hop
Bitters.” Ed. Oswego Sun.
Keep the kidneys healthy with Dr. Soule’s
American Hop Bitters and you need not fear
sickness.”
—lce water is rendered harmless and more
refreshing and reviving with Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters in each draught.
—The vigor of youth for the aged and infirm is
Dr, Soule’s Hop Bitters ! !
—“ At the change of life nothing equals Dr A
Soule’s Hop Bitters to allay all troubles l
Incident thereto. j
“ The best periodical for ladies to take monthly,
and from which they will receive the greatest
benefit is Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters.
—Mothers with sickly, fretful, nursing children,
will cure the children and benefit themselves by
taking Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters daily.
—Thousands die annually from some form of
kidney disease that might have been prevented
by a timely use of Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters.
—lndigestion, weak stomach, irregularities of the
bowels, cannot exist when Dr. Soule’s American Hop
Bitters are used.
A timely • • - use of Dr. Soule’s American
Hop Bitters will keep a whole family
In robust health a year at a little cost.
—To produce real genuine sleen and child-like repose
all night, take a little Dr. Soule’s American Hop Bitters
on retiring.
None genuine without a bunch of green
hops on white label, and Dr, Soule’s name blown
in the bottle. Beware of all the vile poisonous
stuff made to imitate the above.


The Referee.
1 n answer to a challenge in A merica from
Muldoon, “ Professor ” Miller says he is suffering
from the effects of a broken ankle and will not
make a match for wrestling alone, but if Muldoon
will make the match for boxing and wrestling he
is “on.”
* * •
James Stansbury made small meat of
Julius Wulf on Saturday in their wager-boat race
over the Parramatta course. The winner is a
strapping young twenty-year-old, weighing in
condition 12st. 21b. The time was 20min. 4C£sec.
♦ ♦ *
Gerald Kennedy won the outrigger race
for seniors at St. Ignatius’ regatta on Saturday,
beating amongst others Ruwald, Matterson, and
J. Thomson.
* * *
Lyons, the South Australian in the Eng-
lish Eleven, is keeping up the estimate formed of
him before the team left the colonies. In the
match versus the Players he made two “ ducks/’
* * *
Still another champion Jones—a Jones
having taken Langham down at handball. It is
about 12 years since Langham defeated old Billy
Thompson at the Victoria Barracks, Sydney, for
the Australian Championship. Since then, when
“on the job ” he has taken down all comers until,
the sere and yellow coming upon him, he has now
been beaten by his own pupil J ones.
* * *
Spofforth, the erstwhile demon bowler,
having come in for money, leaves next month to
take up his residence in England.
* * *
The Australien Eleven, after making a
draw with the gentlemen of England, have gone
THE SOCIAL GIMLET SOCIETY.
MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT (loq.): “I have the honour to introduce to you a deputation of the Sydney Social Purity Society who have come
to ask you, Mr. Abigail, that as Minister of Mines you will be so good as to lend them a few of the Government diamond-drills.”
down badly before the Players, who won with 10
wickets to spare. With the exception of Wood
and Wright, the team was the same which visited
the colonies, so the Players were represented by
their full strength.
* * *
Stoddart, the popular Oxonian, who
played last season with the M.C.C. eleven, was
severely injured at football on Saturday.
* * *
Mitchell, since his fight with Sullivan, has
been inundated with challenges, amongst others,
from old Jem Mace and Australian Tom Lees.
Mitchell declines, and says he thinks one would
have just about as much show as the other.
* *
Although the English footballers fairly
romped over the cornstalks on Saturday, it was in
many people’s opinion as much owing to the want
on the colonial side as to the brilliancy shown on
the other. Combined Maoriland should beat the
Britishers,
* * *
Larry Donovan, on March 21, jumped
from the Clifton Suspension Bridge, England, a
distance of 245 feet above high water. This is
the greatest bridge-jumping feat on record.
* • *
M‘Shane, the Melbourne cricket club
pro., is travelling with the footballers as trainer.
* " *
Australians —particularly Victorians—who
bemoan the decadence of public interest in cricket,
should carefully study the Sixth Eleven’s perform-
ances to date. Their first six matches were com-
pleted (five wins and one de r eat) in less than a
couple of days for each match. At Yorkshire, 17
wickets fell on the first day for a total of 384 runs,
and six hours’ play with Lancashire produced 301
runs for 22 wickets. The all-round hitting at
Lords, last week, is without precedent at this end
of the world. The undying popularity of cricket
in the old country is explained by the scoring-
board. There is life, dash, earnestness, and elbow-
rease in the game, and hence spectators feel that
they are getting value for their money. Wfien
Victoria and New South Wales choose to
win and lose matches in two days (wicket
being fast and scores tolerably high) instead
of fooling about for double that time, then they
will play to good business as in years gone by.
We say choose because no man can give a logical
reason why they shouldn’t finish any intercolonial
game in three days, at most. It is idle to talk
about the Australian wicket and light being
different to what “ our boys ” get in England,
seeing that any alteration in conditions must be in
favour of either bowlers or batsmen, yet it is cer-
tain that Australians in England make runs and
lose wickets quicker than when playing among
themselves in their own country. Last week our
men made 179 runs in less than three hours against
indifferent amateur bowling, but they lost 10
wickets in the meantime. When first-class Aus-
tralian matches produce similar results, local
interest will revive.
* • *
To realise the super-excellence of W. G.
Grace, we have to remember that he was cham-
pion cricketer before Turner and Ferris were out
of short frocks. He has mastered every fresh de-
velopment in the art of bowling for more than 20
years. There was no “ breaking both ways,” no
varying of pitch, no “off theory,” when Grace
first learned the game, but he met each new
wrinkle in turn, and quietly knocked the stuffing
out of it. The veteran Alfred Shaw was once re-
garded as a bowler certain to “show up” the
hitherto invincible W.G., but Shaw’s discomfiture
has become a matter of history. After bowling
for an hour or two he was asked what he thought
of Grace now. “ Well,” said Shaw, “ I puts the
ball just where I pleases, and that young
puts it just where he pleases.” Twenty years ago
it was proper for the London papers to supple-
ment cricket reports with a footnote after this
style: “The match will be resumed at 11.30 this
morning, and all desirous of seeing Mr. Grace bat
are recommended to be early on the ground.”
The same footnote would not have been out oflj
place in last Tuesday’s Times.
* * # |
A writer in the London Referee says that
the English National Steeplechase course is not
quite so severe as the “official” surveyist would
have one believe. Upon putting the tape over
them the Referee man found sft. Gin. fences
dwindle down to 4ft. 9in., and scarcely an obstacle
at that through which a strong horse could not force
his way. He then goes on to say that the course
taken all through is not to be compared to Flem-
ington (Vic.) with its 4ft. 4in. stone-wall, 3ft. llin.
log jump, and its unbreakable four-rail fences
varying from 4ft. Uin. to 4ft. sin.
* * •
In connection with the rejection by the
Marylebone Club of the English county coun-
cillor’s recommendation in re the rule of leg-before-
wicket, an English paper says the counties should
ignore the decision and play their inter-county
matches under the amended rule.
• •
Scott, the N.Z. walker, has won a six
days’ (12 hours per day) walking-match in Eng-
land, beating Hibberd and Franks. covering
364 miles, one mile, better than the previous best
on record, made by Faber in America as far back
as 1880.
• * *
Prize-fighting is a profitable game. Sulli-
van and Mitchell were lately offered £l5OO for a
three weeks’ engagement at Westminster Aqua-
rium. The negotiation fell through because the
pugs, insisted on an additional £5OO.
* • •
Banian, after his first pull on the Fitzroy
River (Q.), declared it to be “ the finest course in
the world.” This makes the 147th very best
course in the world that'has been discovered since
Edward took to sculling.
* * *
The collapse and subsequent scratching of
Friar’s Balsam left the Epsom Derby a gift for
the Duke of Portland’s Ayshire, who now looks a
most probable winner of the classic treble--Two
Thousand, Derby, and St. Leger. Hampton, the
sire of Ayrshire and his predecessor, Merry
imwAie old ’ and mnst
now be worth £20,000 as a stud horse.
* * *
The Lacrosse Association of N.S.W. held
their annual tournament on Saturday week, and a
valuable trophy—the gift of Mr. J. H. Rainford—
was ultimately won by the Kirribili team. The
game of lacrosse is played in heats, in order to
give the players a chance of getting cool in be-
tween, and looks very much like shinty or hurley.
Two thousand spectators were collected, and a
certain amount of enthusiasm was evoked, but it
will be many years before lacrosse can hope to
rival the chaste and simple joys of football, as it
doesn’t afford the facilities for falling on your
neighbour’s chest, which have endeared the latter
game to the soul of the Australian youth.
* * *
Outside the Sportsman office in Fleet-
street, London, one day not long ago, an im-
mense crowd were cursing and shouldering and
driving and rushing, into each other in a frenzied
effort to get a view of something in the window,
It was a dirty, greasy neckcloth, with marks of
perspiration all over it, and wearing the general
aspect of a dish-rag which had seen hard times.
But it was labelled : “ The handkerchief worn by
Jem Smith in his fight with Kilrain,” and Fleet-
street was almost blocked by the mob which
rolled up to feast its eyes on the relic of the
frowsy hard-smiter who had upheld the honour
of the British flag even when he was landed on
the “konk ” and heavily grassed.
* * *
Tf a man cannot serve two masters how
Jt a man cannot serve two masters, now
can a certain class of Australian sporting writers
give successful tips in the columns of the sheets
which employ them, and afterwards have special
and valuable information for private clients ! For
the sum of one penny to sixpence we can have the
opinion of various of these prophets, as displayed
in the public prints; how, then, can these scribes
reasonably expect us to pay privately a heavier
sum for their latest and most reliable information ?
The tout must betray either the newspaper readers
or the private clients, allowing that in either
case his tips possess any special value. Why
doesn’t the wizard of the turf make a fortune by
backing his own opinions instead of revealing the
“ good thing ” for a trifle ?
At Thargomindah (Q.) a jockey named
Gardiner, while wasting to ride the mare Friend-
less, was seized with fever, and, in a fit of de-
lirium, walked into the Bulloo River and was
drowned. The funeral was headed by a jockey
named Ord, leading the racehorse Dundee, and 20
other jockeys followed on foot, wearing the colours
of their various stables.
* * *
If Turner keeps up his present form with
bat and ball the Britishers will forget all about
Spofforth, who at his best was only a one-part
demon.
* • *
In clie ISCSnt SneSeld match", Australian
Eleven v. Yorkshire, the spectators numbered
20,000. They probably went home to tea ta. ltm g'
'about Sir Henry Carington, the Premier of Mel-
bourne, Australia, N.S. Wales, and wondering
why the cricketers were not black.
* ♦ *
Meander and Irishman, the two best horses
in Money Miller’s stud, are to remain in the
family. Mr, S. Miller bought them at auction
last week.
| The J ustices who tried the Rappiport case would
not have been so blind had they braced themselves
up with Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
1 According to the present market price of
the shares (say £l2), the value of the Mount
Morgan'(Q.) gold mine stands at £12,000,000
sterling!
Sydney “ Social Purity.”
A few days ago the Sydney Social Purity Society
fixed its hollow, clammy eye on the residence of
Miss Ellen Stewart, a young woman who keeps
what is ostensibly merely a tobacconist’s shop in
Castlereagh -street. The Society-which consists
chiefly of clergymen and other dull dogs of dif-
ferent sizes told off someone to watch the
premises, and fie, in pursuit of his chaste and ele-
vatl L :d . calling bored a hole or holes through the
Petition which separated Miss Ellen Stewart’s
boudoir from the adjacent house,, and glued his
n , lora i e > e . to the aperture. Ordinary wretched
smners might be inclined to say that to gaze into
f ny womans bedroom for so much per week is a
mean, beastly, miserable, degrading occupa-
flop> oply fit for a, Chinese dwarf or a black leper,
bu Y us 18 a Slde issue, and has no direct bearing
on t ie , ase< Anyhow, Ellen Stewart was sum-
nmimcl to answer for her alleged sms, and, for the
defence, she called upon a number of members
of Parliament, including a Minister, and a
fashionable attorney, and various other people
of high degree, to testify to the excellence of
h er character. The Minister was the first to
he called upon, but as he, like the others,
failed to appear, he probably did not know
anything about Miss Stewart. A question
might have arisen as to what was to be done
next, but the jury cut the knot by finding
Miss Stewart “ not guilty” without waiting to
hear much of the defence, a course which we hold
to be villainously rough on the Social Purity
Society, which body, through its accredited
representative, had sworn to, her wickedness,
Under these circumstances it is not likely
in the ordinary course of things that the public
will ever know why the Minister was called as a
witness in this rather shady case, and that gentle-
“S”’ hy . his absence > has lost a chance to do his
fellow-citizens a good turn. If, as is probable
enough, he knew nothing whatever of Ellen
Stewart and the games which the jury decided
that she didn’t carry on, he might with
advantage, as a public duty, have appeared
and denounced the brazen effrontery of the
lady and her legal representatives in sum-
moning, possibly for sinister reason o , half-a-
dozen persons who had very likely never
seen or heard of her in all their lives. This'
system of subpcenaeing, if we may be permitted
to assume for argument’s sake that in the Stew-
art case there were absolutely no valid grounds
for calling the Minister and others to Court,
is calculated, if pursued in, to develnpe into a cry-
ing evil. Should it once get into full swing,
every woman, good, bad, or indifferent who finds
herself behind the spikes, will look up a directory
and subpoena all the “respectable gentlemen ” she
can think of, on the supposition that the very
mention of their names will impress the clay
image of the law in her favour ; and many a wife,
in overhauling her husband’s pockets, will be
shocked to find therein legal documents which
suggest that he knows a lot of “ladies” whom
society finds it best to ignore. After such a dis-
covery the average citizen has to expound
the circumstances of the case to “ his good
lady ” for at least three solid months before
the domestic atmosphere begins to clear up.
Concerning the special merits of Miss Stewart a
case or of the cases of those witnesses to
whom subpoenas were sent, we have abso-
lutely nothing to say. But we hold that if the
subpoenaed persons are in a position to challenge
the bona-fides of those by whom they were in-
vited to attend court they should at once do so,
through whatever medium may on considera-
tion seem most expedient ; for if it is under
the ' present New South Wales system of
law poses t° publicly connect with “ off-
coloured ” c&? es innocent men (who know
nothing of tlm matters in dispute) without
incurring any liability, it * s alsp possible to sum
mon a man’s honourable ar virtuous mother to
give evidence in regard to ' a bagnio-keeper ; and
to subpoena a virtuous girl on her wpooing-morn
ing to testify respecting the persona'* ot
some impudent woman of the town ■ bather the
defending lawyers or the witnesses subpoenaed by
them in the Stewart case have a substantial
grievance, and the public have a n ""t to know
which side is in the wrong.
